That's the question. Two chimney sweeps come out of a chimney, come out all black and the other all white. The question then is which of the two will wash? What ? Well obviously, the one that is all black, that makes sense, right? I'm sorry, you are not made to understand what the Talmud contains. I am not made to understand. Why, then ? But you don't think about who came out. Every black person sees that the other has come out completely white, so obviously he believes that he is white. You want to tell me that the one who came out all white sees that the other is all black? So he thinks he's as black as him. And so the one who is white goes to wash. Not the black one. No, definitely, you don't think about someone who is white, who thinks they're black. We see a black man who thinks he is white while the black sends a white man who thinks he is black. Yes, okay, in this case, then neither of them goes to wash and why not both of them go to wash. Yes, I ask the same question, you ask the same question, you ask the same question. But since when do you want an all-white chimney sweep and a second all-black one to come out of the same chimney ? Yes, yes, that's a good question. That's a good question, right? The Talmud is not just a book of riddles. He's much worse than that. Or much better. Question of perspective. They are the bad guys, but there are never men. A question of point of view, like that of the Orthodox Jews who have made the Talmud their daily bread, questioning the Bible on the slightest of its paradoxes. Does Adam have a navel, he who has no parents? Did the fish survive the flood? Why do Jacob's angels need a ladder? And if God can create the world in six days, why couldn't he do it in just one or even in 1 hour, or better, in an instant? Another kind of riddle, in short, because under the guise of understanding the Bible, the Talmud takes care of questioning it in every possible way. The word Talmud is the abbreviation of the expression Talmud Torah study of the Torah, quite simply. The Torah being the Hebrew name for the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. The volumes that make up the Talmud contain centuries of discussions between rabbis on the interpretation of contradictions in the biblical text. For them, the Bible would only be an immense metaphor from which it would be appropriate to extract instructions for everyday life. Suffice to say that they had to use a formidable methodology to succeed in deciphering, in the myth of the forbidden fruit, the laws of food. In that of the Tower of Babel. The foundations of linguistics and in the story of the Exodus from Egypt. The principles of the freedom of peoples. Without Torah, no Talmud, but without Talmud, the Torah would keep many of its mysteries to itself. It is customary in synagogues, three times a week, to open the Torah scrolls and bring the biblical text to life by reading it. There are waves. But bringing texts to life also means discovering their possible interpretations. This is the part of the Talmud. Over the centuries, the interpretations of the wise have accumulated. Also, more than a book, the Talmud presents itself more as an assembly of several books succeeding one another over time. A book within the book. In the book, almost indefinitely. A book without a full-fledged author. A book of which all the wise men of all time are the authors. Not a field of human knowledge will be left aside, because the Torah itself contains them all, even if it is not apparent at first glance. The Talmud says My teaching is like the sea. You must dive into it to learn to swim. So it is with the Torah. Only the one who immerses himself in it, running the risk of drowning in it, will be able to learn what it is. An ocean of light. This is how the Talmud views the Torah. He immerses himself inside her to discover its depths. Throughout the questioning, they end up touching on the fundamental subjects of the first cause, the links between the ephemeral and the eternity, and so many other essential dimensions that philosophy or science will also treat in their own way. But far from austerity, philosophy and science, the Talmud also knows how to laugh at itself. I'm starting again, I'm starting again. The one who is white sends a black who sees a white who believes himself to be black and the one who is black sends a white who sees a black who believes himself to be white in common. It's simple, it's not that simple. But no, it's simple. The one who is white sees clearly that his hand is white and the one who is black sees clearly that his hand is black. What do you want to say to me ? That he who sees that his hand is clean will not wash it? Yes, and whoever sees that his hand is dirty will wash it. Too easy. So you know, you can be clean and still want to wash. You can be dirty and not want to wash at all. Look at you for example. We are in 70 CE. Titus has razed the temple of Jerusalem and Roman troops occupy the holy city. The wise men, for the most part, took refuge in the north, in Galilee, in Tiberias. As a reaction to the Roman invasion, wishing to put an end to Judaism, a group of wise men will undertake one of the most remarkable developments of this Jewish culture by deciding to develop the Talmud, under the aegis of Rabbi Yehuda Nassi, spiritual leader of the Jewish people at the time, light among his people. He rests today in the heart of Galilee, in the very cradle of his work, the Talmud. Until then, the wise men, generation after generation, repeated from memory the dialogues of the ancient masters to which their own comments were added. A sort of collective memory which risked ending up being disseminated and lost given the volume of opinions which continued to grow. To avoid such a tragedy. Rabbi Yehuda Hannachi took the initiative of compiling in writing nearly two centuries of teachings that had until then remained transmitted by memory. This first sum, he decided the framework, the form and the limits and named it Mishna. Mishna meaning repetition of the fact that it was a question of repeating seven times in writing what memory was no longer sufficient to remember. This enormous work was only completed two centuries after his death. The Mishnah consists of the first part of the Talmud and will therefore be completed in 220 CE. The Talmud will be organized according to the arrangement that Rabbi Yehuda gave to the Mishna six orders covering the entire range of the cham of knowledge, six orders, themselves divided into 63 treatises, themselves divided into 523 chapters, which make up the text biblical a true treatise on life. God made the world in six days. Rabbi and Yehuda arranged it into six orders, six orders, like the six directions of the world, six orders like the six days of creation, six orders which condense all that the Spirit of man can boast of. In six orders. The Talmud claims to encompass all possible knowledge , as if directions define the limits of a universe. Six handwritten orders which became the reference for the laws and customs of the Jewish world. Six Order which offers nothing less than a user manual for the world. And Rahim the order of seeds where the laws of germination and therefore the principles of vitality in all its forms and modes are debated. the Order of Festivities where the laws of time, the calendar and festive ceremonies are debated. Nassim the Order of Women where the laws of matrimonial law and civil law in general are discussed. Nemesis Quinn. the Order of damages are debated there Penal, civil and criminal legislation and the laws of idolatry. Cauda, Chim. the Order of Holiness. The laws of the temple of Jerusalem. Its measures, its architecture, its organization and its service. Theodotus. the Order of Purities all the laws of ritual purity are debated there . But the development of the Talmud did not stop. The wise continue to perpetually question the text. The Mishnah will gradually find itself augmented by new questions which accumulate over the centuries, to which we will give the name Gemara. Gemara means complement. Over time, this complement will take a largely preponderant place to the point of representing more than 90% of the entire Talmud. Thus, from the third to the 7th century, the following Talmud, the six orders initiated by Rabbi and Hannachi, will take its complete form. The Mishnah in Hebrew, followed by the Gemara in Aramaic, the language spoken by all the Talmudists of the time. Following the Roman invasion, many Jewish sages established themselves in Babylonian territory. This explains why the Talmud developed in parallel in two places Israel and Babylon, which will give birth to two Talmuds. The one developed in the land of Israel will be called Talmud Yerushalmi, Talmud of Jerusalem, the one developed in Babylon. Talmud, Babli. Their essential difference consists of their method. That of Jerusalem favors the conclusions of the wise. That of Babylon favors questioning. And this is precisely the questioning that we choose. Future Talmudic schools that still study the Babylonian Talmud today. So, for millennia, wherever it is found, Jewish children have grown up with this art of questioning. The Talmud is par excellence the book of the question. Who has questions? A rabbi once asked. I have so many answers. He was referring to his Talmud, but the Talmud doesn't just answer questions. It trains the mind in dialectics which can sometimes take unexpected turns. But he who is white, he can. Being another chimney to sweep, especially if it's not the end of your day. So why was there right away? However, we may want to wash ourselves, even if we don't see that we are dirty. In fact, we feel dirty, we can feel dirty, always feel dirty. No, no, no, But there, you're talking to me about a neurotic, a neurotic chimney sweep who always feels dirty, obsessed with cleanliness. Finally, this according to the Talmud of Babylon, since that of Jerusalem does not bother with so many detours. You know that well, so maybe the one who is white simply comes from Jerusalem. And the black one comes from Babylon, right? What do you think ? It took six centuries to succeed in giving substance to the Talmud. Six centuries to condense what will become the most unique collection ever assembled of endless dialogue on all the subjects of the world. Till today. A page of the Talmud is made up in its center of the whole formed by the Mishnah and the Gemara. Various comments surround them, subsequent comments that have become essential to their understanding. Today, students of Yeshiva, Talmudic schools perpetuate the dialogue between the rabbis of the first centuries and their successors. But despite everything, getting back to digging is a failure. With the orchid. It happens. Even if she shaped a magic pineapple. Immediately, my machine pulls Chinese. Phew! Within the Yeshiva. The art of controversy serves the study of everyday practical law. But above all, the Talmud develops the spirit of analysis, sharpens the critical sense, pushes the boundaries of the absurd as far as possible, always with the perspective of making thought and its contradictions optimal. Dora Rabat, Lola jumps, who walked, thus saves. Students discover the intellectual feats by which the Talmud deduces from biblical stories and their apparent paradox or anachronism their impact in practical daily life. The biblical text is also perceived as a metaphor because the Hebrew language is a language of drawers. A single word can have several meanings, therefore several levels of interpretation. Never mind that Adam had a belly button. Adam, in Hebrew means I am blood and Eve I am alive. Beyond the meeting of a man and a woman, it is about the meeting of flesh and vitality. How vitality enters the body through the blood. Everything I eat becomes blood, says the Talmud. And curiously, the laws of food are dependent on the story of Adam and Eve. That's the first thing they did. Once created, they began to eat like a newborn baby, barely out of its mother's womb. Eating involves being careful about what you eat, says the Talmud. Thus, from the simple story of Adam, Eve and an unknown fruit, dietary rules are discovered which, beyond simple dietetics, define a link between man and the world. So, face to face, like duelists, the apprentice Talmudists compare their opinions, sharpen their art of dialogue, perpetuating the tradition of questioning which does not happen without a certain sense of play. But wait, wait! Since when does one spell black and another white? It's a trap. Surely a trap. They must both come out black. What ? No no. The first person to come out of the chimney only needs to collect all the soot. You mean the passage is clean for the second one? So the first one comes out all black and the second all white? Too easy ! And you think the Talmud asks such a subtle question for such a simple answer? I don't believe anything. I'm trying to understand, I'm trying to understand. You try to understand, you try to understand. Okay, I'll start again. Two chimney sweeps come out of a chimney. All black. All white. So which of the two will wash? But the true greatness of this book is that it is also the story of a people. The Talmud tells about the Jews and the Jews. The Talmud. It is during the wanderings of the Jewish people that the book and its history will be shaped. That of its content also mixes with that of its invention, its manuscripts, its imprimatur. The history of the Talmud must be seen as the history of a people. From Sinai, Moses received the Torah from Sinai and not at Sinai. Points out the Talmud, as if Sinai itself was the instigator of the gift of the Torah to Moses and of Moses to men. The nuance no longer makes Sinai a simple mountain. But there is an intimate link between the word Sinai and the word sina which means hatred. Hate. Moses received the Torah, says the Talmud. But what is it about? This is how it would be appropriate to interpret the things of hatred between men. The need for the Torah Torah, book of peace, arises. Perpetual cadence that pitches, undulates and rocks. Jews, generation after generation, beat an endless measure marking the oscillations of a pendulum which measures time to the rhythm of the pages of the Talmud studied. The Talmud is a flame which penetrates the spirit, a flame which transmits to the body its uninterrupted, immutable, sempiternal movement, to the rhythm of life, like the beats of a heart. According to Talmudic anatomy, these oscillations promote both concentration and memorization. In one direction, the valves open, in the other they close in one direction, understanding is activated in the other. Memorization. But during the 19th century, the decline of Babylon, which followed the decline of Roman Palestine , forced the Talmudists to emigrate to other countries. During their journey, multitudes of works will continue the work of the first Talmudists. Jewish libraries will continue to be enriched by the questions of those who will endeavor to contribute to its perpetual invention. The Talmud remaining throughout the ages an uninterrupted creative process. Of Jerusalem and Babylon. The Talmud begins its long exile. Constantinople. Salonika. Corfu. Messina. Syracuse. The African coast. The Jews swarmed all along the Mediterranean, landing on the shores of Italy, slowly moving up along the Adriatic coast, reaching the shores of France and the Iberian Peninsula, taking with them their precious book as their main baggage. The Talmud very quickly became the bearer of Jewish memory throughout the diaspora, and its study revealed itself to be the only true home for a people without refuge, without real home base. In fact, the pleasure of study had to compensate for the misfortunes of wandering. The attachment to books compensated for the detachment from the earth. In the absence of the promised land, the Talmud was the compensation. Thus was founded in the Rhineland in the 10th century between Speyer, Worms and Mainz, the most important Talmudic center since Tiberias, Jerusalem and Babylon. The most famous masters met there. Their reputation was such that they attracted there the one who would become the most illustrious of all. Rashi. Born in 1040 in Troyes, France. Rabbi Shlomo Benny Rashad Sarfati, known as Rashi, joined Worms as a young student and remained there for several years. Rashi would become the most popular, but also the most phenomenal, rabbi of his time. Phenomenal for his phenomenal knowledge, for his contribution to Talmudic culture. It was here, in the Yeshiva of Worms, that he followed his training until he became an eminent master. This is evidenced by this chair which would have been his, encrusted in stone, as his teaching will be in the building of the Talmud as we know it today. There was going to be the Talmud before Rashi and the Talmud after Rashi, to such an extent that even today we can no longer dissociate Rashi's glosses from the original text of the Talmud. A book within the book. Around the text of the Mishnah and the Gemara which occupies the center of each page of the Talmud is printed the commentary of Rashi, which has become essential to the study, because it clarifies a corpus which has become somewhat chaotic due to its numerous rearrangements. Rashi, the child prodigy recognized by Jewish and non-Jewish scholars of his time for his immense erudition, contributed to the recognition of the spirit of universality of the Talmud. It was at the age of three in Champagne that, having become old, he began his work. He founded a school there that would go down in history. His disciples will develop Talmudic questioning to a point that even today we can no longer study without referring to it with Rashi, the Talmud, already timeless, becomes universal. But let's imagine that it is night, as Rashi says, then the white person can see that he is white, but the black person will have a harder time. But if black is not seen, he could rightly conclude that it is black. Yes, but white too. Which means that it's not necessary for it to be daylight to go wash. This is precisely what Rashi says. You think ? Honestly, no. An ocean of light. If the Torah reflects divine light, the Talmud channels this light. And tames it like the sea tames the fire of the sun. To immerse oneself in the Talmud is to tame the divine fire. But this is not necessarily escaping the devouring fire of the world. During the year 1240, Nicolas gave a converted French Jew, who became a Dominican, denounced to Pope Gregory IX the errors and falsifications that he attributed to the Talmud. In his opinion, it contained blasphemies against Christ, the Virgin Mary, the angels and the saints of the Church. Gregory IX, who had already established the rules of the papal inquisition at that time , considered it his duty to pursue heretics. The Vatican expressly asked the King of France, Louis IX, known as Saint Louis, to put an end to the perfidy of the Jews by suppressing all copies of the Talmud. Saint Louis ordered that all Jewish manuscripts be thrown into the fire. The burning of the Talmud took place in 1244 in Paris. He was followed by many others. In the following years, in application of royal legislation, the Talmud was solemnly condemned on May 15, 1248 as a blasphemous work of the devil. The repression was so violent that it put an end to the French Talmudists. And the Talmud resumes its wandering, this time as far as Spain. Since the 9th century, the date of the decline of Babylon, Spain has been Muslim. Yet there is not one of these great cities that is not home to some eminent Talmudists. Cordoba. Toledo. Seville. Barcelona. Grenade. The Jews resided there in perfect tranquility and the study of the Talmud was prosperous there. As evidenced by the Cathedral of Cordoba, built in the heart of the old mosque. Andalusia. From this era still remains the symbol of harmony between communities. In those times, Muslims, Christians and Jews got along well together. In the shadow of the mosque, in the shadow of the church, in the alleys of the Scuderia, within the Talmudic community, a new light will dawn. Moses Maimonides. Rises like a star in the firmament of the Andalusian golden age. Born in Cordoba in 1135, he would become the highest intellectual figure of medieval Spanish Judaism. These works, including the Guide for the Lost, have acquired great importance in the eyes of all, Jews, Muslims and Christians. His Code of Law. The Mishna Torah has played a major role in the writings of philosophers of all stripes and religious scholars of all persuasions for generations. Whoever reads my book will know the entire Torah and all its commentaries, said Maimonides of his Mishna Torah. Rashi in France and Maimonides in Spain were both driven by the same concern for universality. Both wanted to take the Talmud out of the synagogue alone in order to make it available to as many people as possible. What to ask for. More ? But while Rashi is concerned with clarifying the method, Maimonides abandons it and favors only the conclusions of the ancient masters to arrive at a practical Torah. The. My goal is to be as concise as it is complete, says Maimonides, so that the reader can be directly oriented to everything that has been instituted and confirmed by the Talmud, without having to deal with all the discussions of the sages who could disrupt reasoning. All this so that we don't need any other book than mine. Astronomer. Mathematician, botanist, doctor of Saladin. Maimonides spent his life advising the greats of his time as well as the most humble. Through his genius, he revealed to the eyes of the world to what extent Talmudic science could be universal. It is in Tiberias that he rests, the very place of the birth of the Talmud. Maimonides thus joins his illustrious ancestors. It was not until the beginning of the 13th century that Christians joined forces to retake Spain from the Muslims. It's the Reconquista. The unification of Spain followed the marriage of Isabella the Catholic and Ferdinand of Aragon in 1474. It led in January 1492 to the Muslims being definitively expelled. Caught in the turmoil of the resurgent Inquisition on orders from the Vatican. The Jews were also expelled from Spain the same year. They flee, saving their only real wealth from disaster. The Talmud. Driven from Spain, the Jews and their Talmud disperse. Among the preferred destinations, Venice. Why does God scatter his people over the face of the earth? Asks the disciple. So that the light of his Torah illuminates. In every place, answers the wise man. And for this, the Jews are violently expelled, retorts the disciple. The greater the light, the more painful its birth. Answers the wise man, his eyes filled with tears. Venice benefits from relative independence from the Church. However, it will be the first ghetto in history at the end of the 15th century. Ghetto Venetian word coming from the Italian jetta, because it is in the place where unused foundry parts were thrown away that the Doge of Venice agreed to let the Jews settle. I do not see. But at the same time. Venice becomes a veritable nursery of Talmudists. On the other hand, it is true that life in Venice, essential stages in the history of the Talmud. This is where the full text will be printed for the first time. We are in 1519. The Vatican, which prescribed the Talmud throughout Italy under penalty of the rigors of the Inquisition, could not prevent the doge from authorizing the imprimatur of Jewish books on its territory. It's in the printer's presses Christian Daniel Bromberg that, page after page, one of the most colossal undertakings in the history of printing was carried out. Nearly ten thousand pages examined closely by teams of eminent Talmudists conscious of creating a unique work as important as anyone could hope for. From fifteen 119 to 15 123. Five years of work will be necessary for the Talmud to become a book from manuscripts. Bromberg spares no expense. Concerned that his edition of the Talmud achieve perfection, his work was to become a landmark, since it remained the only reference for nearly four centuries. All the editions that would follow. Among the most famous Basel, Pesaro, Amsterdam, Munich, Frankfurt, Krakow up to the definitive one in Vilna in the 19th century, would be inspired by those of Bromberg. The expert work demonstrated by Bromberg decided, for the rest of time, the appearance of the pages of the Talmud, giving it this aspect that was at once sober, simple, minimalist, without the slightest embellishment. By going to the heart of the text following a very particular geometry, the Bamberg edition fixed the pagination. The text of the Mishnah and the Gemara occupies the center of each folio in square writing around which are distributed the glosses of Rashi and those of his students in semi-cursive characters. With Bamberg. In the 16th century, the Talmud became a work of art. However, the institution of censorship by the Vatican pushed Bromberg to put an end to his activity and to leave Venice in 1546. the Church, which could not attack the Bible without attacking itself, attacks the Talmud. In his eyes, the Jews are no longer the people of the Bible, but the people of the Talmud cultivating an anti-Christian spirit, a diabolical spirit. All the arguments that the Church will raise against the Talmud and its content will obviously prove unfounded. In this second half of the 16th century, the Church, engaged in the Counter-Reformation and against the spirit of liberality of the Renaissance, demanded strict observance of the faith and developed intransigence towards the Jewish community accused of anti-Christianity. Many monasteries still have copies of the books confiscated at the time. Jewish books have always remained sulfurous for the Church and incapable of being able to read them, to decipher their mysteries. The Vatican will not just confiscate or censor them. But in 1553, the Vatican again issued the order to throw Jewish books into the flames. All the Jewish houses in Rome were searched. And on the Campo di Fiori the auto-da-fe took place. It was September 9, 1553, Rosh Hashanah, the day of the Jewish new year. A few weeks later in Venice, on a Shabbat day, October 21, in San Marcos Square. In the words of the papal nuncio, a good fire put an end to the blasphemy. More than a thousand Talmuds were burned. The history of the Talmud is also the history of the difficulties of a text to exist. 50 years later, the Talmud would once again rise from its ashes. And his story joins that of the Jews who never ceased to survive all the attempts at assimilation, conversion or destruction to which they were subjected. Yes, the black sends a white person who thinks he is black, but this black person thinks he is white without realizing that the white person thinks he is black. But is a white person who thinks he is black whiter than white? Who thinks they're white? Yes, it's like asking is this that a candle sheds more light in a dark cellar when it is dark outside than if it was day? Did they say it was dark? Exactly, how do you expect two chimney sweeps to bring in the night? Why shouldn't they be allowed to work at night? Can you tell me they're not free men? But what is freedom doing here? These are the workers who do their job honestly. And to do it well, it has to be daylight. It's all good. They say They started the day, they were late, It's dark when they come out of the chimney, so it would be winter. Night falls earlier. Perfectly. So in this case, yes, it gets complicated. How can you see who is clean, who is dirty in winter but who is rowdy in winter? It's called the Peel Pool. The mania for arguing almost to the point of absurdity. And it was in Poland that this art of Peel Pool was born, under the influence of Jakob Polak, who settled in Krakow around fifteen hundred. In his teaching, Jacob Pollack strives to deploy all the resources of the finest and most subtle dialectic, to argue on everything and about everything. But we sweep before winter in the fall, but snow can fall before winter. They are both black, but one is covered in snow. It's all white, but sometimes the snow is dirty, it's black. So black snow can hide the white one and white snow can hide the black one perfectly. So which of the two will wash perfectly? But Pool Pool had its detractors in Vilna, the Jerusalem of the North. There lived a learned Talmudist, Elias Cramer, born in 1720, died in 1797, who is still venerated today under the name of Great Genius by the Jews of Lithuania and elsewhere. He did not sleep more than 4 hours a night and to devote himself tirelessly to study, he attached his pieces to the ceiling and kept his feet in a basin of ice water to avoid falling asleep. Of a high character, of remarkable intelligence , of profound knowledge. The Gone of Vilna occupied a special rank among the rabbis. He worked tirelessly to understand the text and submit it to serious criticism, without seeking to push the art of dialectic which, in his view, was more about ergon than true reflection. Its impact was considerable throughout Eastern Europe. He founded the model of modern Talmudic schools and influenced dynasties of illustrious masters. The definitive edition of the Talmud that is still used today is that made in Vilna in 1880, enriched with numerous commentaries. It condenses the teaching of modern masters and is part of the boy's line of thoughts. If a new branch. Start with his sophisticated hat, let's get started. The same idea on a song. From then on, all students have a much more efficient working tool than past generations had. From Poland to Austria, from Hungary to Italy, from Spain to England, from Germany to France, from Lithuania to Ukraine. We can say that there was not a country in Europe that did not participate in the invention of the Talmud. Thus, for nearly eight centuries, the Talmud inhabited Europe, both the Europe of villages and ghettos and that of capitals and the main centers of intellectual life. During all these years, the Talmud experienced an intense production of commentaries and a flowering of schools which shape towards the Jewish culture which would inherit modernity. Modernity is America. Necessarily. The Talmud leaves old Europe for a land apparently full of promise. Immediately after the Great War and during the 1920s and 1930s, many families landed in the New World. The Talmud lands on a foreign land. And fittingly, one of the first things Jews do when they settle down is print their books. A way of marking their territory, even if temporary. The temptation to assimilation being much greater than in Europe, the Talmud runs the risk of being quickly abandoned. And to prevent the dangers of this new situation. The first schools will emerge very quickly, in line with those of the Old Continent. The Talmud takes root in a still confusing modernity. At the dawn of the 20th century, should the Talmud adapt to modernity or should modernity adapt to the Talmud? To answer this question, it is enough to delve into the dialogue of the wise men and understand how their words always anticipated the events of history. the School of Chamaille and the school of Hillel argued for two and a half years about the man. The first said it was better that man was not created. The second, it is good that man was created. In the end, the votes were counted, and it was better concluded that man was not created. But since he already exists, then let him be virtuous. Virtuous. What remained for the Jews at the dawn of World War II? Go practice virtue in the United States? Shabbat, October. Any trace of this immeasurable, hateful master, without any dogma or squeaking bridle in Central America. But some doubt that America is a center of. Virtue, but it is content to condemn to a form of clandestinity. Locked up in their ghetto, their Talmud as their only refuge, the fate of the Jews in Central Europe in the 20th century can provide an argument for the opinion according to which it was better if man was not created. Nazism, in any case, could have such an option ratified with flying colors. Hope, however, is the foundation of Judaism. However, it is precisely when there is no more hope that it is appropriate to hope. And Jewish hope takes root even higher than the absurdity of the world. The resurrection in a world where the absurd will no longer have any reason to exist is the most unexpected illustration of this. The Talmud tells the story of a Roman emperor who sent the Jews to their death. He challenged one of the wise men before handing him over to his executioners and told him. I don't understand how you Jews can believe in the resurrection of the dead. The wise man's youngest daughter answered for him. She said to the Romans You did not exist and now you exist. This doesn't surprise you, but I am amazed every moment. Today you exist and you are surprised that one day you can exist again. Well, that doesn't surprise me. The Talmud evokes the resurrection of the dead in a pictorial way, but itself provides a concrete illustration of it. Indeed. How many times has he come back from between the flames? Here again. Despite the scale of the disaster, the people survived. The book too. Doesn't the Talmud say We learn more from the dead than from the living, since the living transmit the teachings of the dead ? and in this he brings them back to life. Aren't the cemeteries called Bethlehem, house of the living? The cemeteries seem like open-air libraries. The Talmud left some of the most famous pages of its history there. He once caused wisdom to germinate there. But this one has not disappeared. She's still there. To be born again. After the war, Talmudic studies would redouble, particularly in the United States, thanks to the initiative of DAF Yomi. To the alignment of units. At the rate of one page per day. It takes a little over seven years to read the 2711 pages of the modern edition of the Talmud. An exercise that all Talmudists worthy of the name engage in throughout the world. Associate with the affirming program. In other words, one page per day. Already, the principle of studying a daily page of the Talmud was initiated by Rabbi Meyer Shapiro on September 11, 1923 in Lublin, Poland. The Talmud would be this spiritual land where Jews could at the same time, everywhere in the world, be united by a common study. In 2005, Madison Square Garden in New York brought together more than 46,000 people connected by satellite to other communities around the world to celebrate the 11th closing of the study of the Talmud. Eleven cycles of seven and a half years. There you have it, a new kind of Talmudist is emerging. Echoing their father's voice as at the top of the Manhattan towers where businessmen, lawyers, bankers decide to devote themselves to the daily study of the Talmud before returning to their office. A way to recharge your batteries. Since Talmudic reflection has the means to respond to the problems posed by modernity. Is it not said that God made the world in six days and that he rests on the seventh? Now, today, all humanity works for six days and rests on the seventh. Is this not a sign of the modernity of the Torah? Ask the Talmud. Joseph Bichot. Or Joseph? American Jews have, from the very beginning, participated in the construction of the new world, often assimilating at the cost of their own cultural heritage. But they nevertheless always maintained a link with the ancestral land, regularly returning to the soil of old Europe. More than nostalgia, it was a real need to recharge one's batteries with those who had known how to preserve the Talmud from assimilation. Certainly, assimilation had already reached Europe, leaving the yeshiva, succumbing to the trappings of philosophy, literature, art and science. Many children and grandchildren of Talmudists would open new paths in many areas. Mathematics, physical logic and even psychoanalysis. In his correspondence with Carl Abraham, Sigmund Freud evokes the Talmudic atavism which would have pushed some of their colleagues into the path of psychoanalysis. What is the difference between a Talmudist and a psychoanalyst? A generation, they said. Today, we can reverse the question what is the difference between a psychoanalyst and a Talmudist? Another generation? Yet a generation whose Talmud had been violently snatched from their hands and thrown into the fire. Now, when we start burning books, we end up burning people. Men put on trains that were their graves. Other trains today have taken their revenge. This one. Like many others, in which every morning, between Long Island and Manhattan, one of the cars becomes a Talmudic school, leading to their work. Many descendants of survivors will take over their desks. She teaches us. The Talmud stimulates the mind. There we find the foundations of law, commerce, psychoanalysis and so many other fields of intellectual activity that apparently everyone can find something to suit them. We know that woman is the inspiration for man, of what is said. God said to Abraham Listen to the voice of your wife Sarah. From this, the sages deduced that if a woman studies, she can go much further than a man. Is that why he excused him from the study? Modernity will have at least gained in elevating women, hitherto kept in a certain discretion, not to say a virtual distance from the Talmud, who now apply themselves to it more every day. Their elders were content to hear about it. All Jews counted Talmudists among their ancestors. Freud evokes the Talmud of his fathers. Marx came from a line of more than fourteen generations of Talmudists. Einstein parodies the Talmud without knowing it, by discovering the laws of relativity. Kafka regretted not having studied it. There are countless people among the founders of modern thought who, in one way or another, are indebted to him. Even if the Talmudic tradition was sometimes abandoned, sometimes denied or banned. The Talmud machine has never stopped. In New York, Hard Scroll Editions translates tirelessly. Rabbit Chairman is one of these artisans who, through their work of translation, participate in this continuity of the invention of the Talmud. Today, the Talmud exists in English, Russian, French and Spanish. As if the last phase of this invention was precisely to be readable in all languages, accessible to as many people as possible. This is the task that Adine Steinfeld, who directs the Institute of Talmudic Texts in Jerusalem, has set herself . He is the author of a new detailed translation which strives to show how the Talmud is still relevant today. I even gave light to as many people as possible. To do this, the Talmud finds new ways that neither those of Annecy, nor Rashi, nor Maimonides would have ever suspected. He explains to us, that is to say like this gold which is the morning. Israel, that is to say the sun, will shine for the Tsadikim in the future world, that is to say who will emerge from the darkness into the future world, like the. But which is the Internet. In its own way, repeats the gesture of Hanukkah Hanukkah, the Festival of Lights once a year. It involves lighting lights outside the house as a symbol of sharing, of hope for a better world. A world made better by knowledge, knowledge which must come out of hiding. Like the Hanukkah flame. The light of the Talmud has never ceased, throughout its history, to illuminate the darkness. I never know the time. Michel M tell us en masse anyway, just to have a friend who goes half. Where are you going ? But shush, shh! The day begins with the night, as it says There was evening, there was morning. This was the first day. The same is true of our own lives. It begins in the darkness of the mother's womb and ends in the light of the world. But some say at night, that's the world we live in. Morning will be the future world. Thus, this dark world makes us blind in search of the slightest glimmer of wisdom. A simple little light that sparkles in the darkness. So. The Talmud remained throughout the destiny of the Jewish people, this spark which preserved for them in trials a sort of clairvoyance. This is how, in any case, the Talmud calls the blind those who see clearly. What if they were blind? What if they really didn't see anything? Total darkness constantly, what to sweep blind? That said, for what there is to see in a chimney, if the question were two blind people, one black and the other white, which of the two will wash? But in this case, the Talmud would have spoken of blind people and not of chimney sweeps. Yes, but it is so easy to answer that the one who is dirty will wash himself and that we must understand that the intention of the Talmud is to make us understand that they are blind. But how can they clean a chimney if they can't see anything there? But have you never seen a blind man play the piano or a chimney sweep who played the piano? No, but if two blind people can play Beethoven with four hands, they can pass through a chimney hole. But why ? The question is not after the concert which of the two pianists will wash? But that's precisely the question. Just that they are chimney sweeps, yes, and blind. Have you ever seen two chimney sweeps playing the piano? No, but I'm just asking to see. That said, I knew a second-hand dealer who played the trumpet in a duo. Ah good ? Which trumpet will wash? That's a good question, especially since they're both copper. But just tell me one question. Have you ever seen chimney sweeps? No ? Me neither.