Welcome to another Mathologer video. You are all familiar with the diagram over Yes, of course, it's the diagram powering not really it, right? I am sure for the majority of people watching If this is not the case, ask for your money on watching for a, hopefully, life changing And even for those of you who've treasured school keep watching. Today will be about all the secrets of this mathematicians will be familiars with. But first a bit of revision to get us all A squared plus B squared equals C squared. You all know the drill. Take any right-angled triangle with short area of the square on the hypotenuse, C squared, on the two shorter sides, A squared plus B A stunning visual proof of this fundamental Take four copies of the triangle and combine Okay, this large square is partly covered The area that is not covered is what? Well, C squared of course. Now move one of the little triangles a bit. How large is the blue area now? Well, still C squared of course. How about now? Still C squared. And this will be true no matter how we position as they don't overlap. Right? Okay, ready for a big AHA moment :) Move the No overlaps and so the area is still C squared. However, this area is also A squared plus And so A squared plus B squared equals C squared. What an amazingly simple and beautiful proof Alright, now, how about this... The area of the large square is equal to the the four triangles Okay, the area of the large The area of the little square is C squared. And the area of one of the right-angled triangles simply go on algebra autopilot. Fantastic again. Maybe not quite as fantastic as the first Just out of interest, can you let me know square proofs you were already familiar with Will be interesting. Of course, most kids never get to see either entitle them to get their money back from As well, most school textbooks that feature algebraic one. Go figure. Anyway, no matter how pretty these proofs iconic diagram. Right? Wrong! There is more, lots and lots more. There is Fermat's four square theorem, the and much more. Ready to be amazed. Here we go. The twisted square diagram has been around the earliest documented proof of Pythagoras manuscript on astronomy and mathematics. Well, Pythagoras neither discovered "his" so to have this theorem named after him is Anyway, let's have a look inside the manuscript. What you find there is pages upon pages of Lots and lots of Chinese characters. However, eventually we come across a page Well, that's definitely our diagram. But there is a bit more to this drawing, isn't There, a second very different twisted square triangles. In fact, this second diagram can also be used ways, one algebraic and one one based on shuffling Just looking at areas again we have: Four of the little square is equal to the area Expressing this identity in terms of A, B A squared plus B squared equals C squared On the other hand, the C squared area of the some of the triangles. And so C squared is equal to A squared plus Also a very pretty proof and in a way even since we only have to shuffle two of the triangles The Chinese drawing also features a grid. What's that grid for? Well, it's clear that no matter what right-angled so far will stay true. Of course, this is very important. Otherwise none of our proofs would actually On the other hand, the grid shows that in right-angled triangle. Can you see it? Yep, it's a 3-4-5 right-angled triangle. 3,4,5 the prototype Pythagorean triple, a A squared + B squared equals C squared. Since we've all been familiar with the 3,4,5 fact that such special triples exist for granted. That the existence of such integer triples is in fact a little bit of by Fermat's last theorem which says that other larger integer the equation will not But of course, the wonderful 3,4,5 Pythagorean And you can get more of these wonderful integer in the grid. There, doubling the number of gridlines give And tripling gives this But there are also and many of you will be familiar with this 5, 12, 13, 5 squared + 12 squared equals 13 Anyway, there are infinitely many essentially mention that we know how to construct all And of course we can use any of these triples But let's stick with 3,4,5. Alright, let's have another close look. How many squares are there? Well there is this one Then that one And one squared the area of this green square is 5 Well 3+4 is 7 and so the area is 7 squared. Cool Now, what's 25 - 1 25-1 that's 24 What about 49 minus 25? You got it? 49 minus 25 is also 24 :) Interesting, both Is that a coincidence? What do you think? Well, no, that we get the same difference Have a look. What's the difference between blue and green? Well that's just the area of four copies And how about the difference between the green Same thing. Very pretty isn't it? So what this means is that within the square and that every Pythagorean triple translates Okay so that's what we get for 3,4,5. And here is what we get if we double the number In maths an arithmetic progression is a sequence by a fixed amount like 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, etc. with common difference 3. And so another way of expressing this equal there are arithmetic progressions of length This fact was already known to the great 17th super famous last theorem I mentioned just And this fact prompted Fermat to ask a very Are there any longer arithmetic progressions Right, here we've got 4 plus 96 is 100 plus What if we add another 96? Do we get another square? That would then be an arithmetic progression Well, no, because 196 plus 96 is 292 and 292 But in general, are there arithmetic progressions How long can such progressions be? What do you think? Well, this is a tricky one. Let me just try to confuse you a little bit In 2004 the mathematical superstars Ben Green and Terry Tao proved that progressions of arbitrary length among the Insane right? Here is one of length 5 that you've been it. There 5 plus 6 is 11 plus 6 is 17 plus 6 is of 5 primes with common difference 6. Anyway, how long can arithmetic progressions Fermat figured out that in fact 3 is the surprising You cannot do any better than the mini sequences triples. Allegedly Fermat also had a proof, but nobody a situation similar to that with his famous a proof but none was found in his writings. Here is a quote from the well-known Australian I looked this up in reference [3] and found could show by descent that one cannot have four squares in arithmetic Myerson has pointed me to a reference but and I remain searching for a decent descent I decided recently that such a proof was most of my notebook. And here is what he ended up being written This is the nicest and most natural proof aware of and it may very well be similar to years ago. I won't go into the nitty gritty details Let me just say that this proof features the already encountered in several Mathologer At its core is a well-known construction of that this proof may have had its origin in that I just talked about. Pythagoras theorem has been around for thousands worth discovering about Pythagoras theorem Far from it! What I'll talk about now was only discovered Okay, so instead of twisting squares we now Let's try to mimic as much as possible what So, instead of a right-angled triangle we angle. Make three copies. Arrange them into a large equilateral triangle After a bit of fiddling it turns out that we first have to get rid of one of the red There, go away ... Now shuffle. Aha, that looks very promising. As before, side by side our two diagrams amount Cancel two triangles each on the left and So what's left? Well, we've got one equilateral triangle original triangle. Let's name the areas of these triangles Using these names our identity looks like Fantastic. A Trithagorean theorem for 60-degree triangles and B areas add up exactly to the C area. That almost also works in this Trithagorean Right? A area plus B area equals C area PLUS there term, the area of the original triangle T 60 degree angle into a right angle but keep Experts, what am I about to say? :) Well, we can make the identity on top work Yes, Pythagoras not only works for squares A area plus B area equals C area. In fact, even better, Pythagoras works for glued to the sides of a right angled triangle. Semicircles, Capital letter M for Mathologer, I already talked about this at length in a of years ago. Also check that on out. Anyway, back to equilateral triangles. 60 On the other hand, 90 PLUS 30 is 120. And it turns out that just like 60 degree a nice Trithagorean theorem. The only difference between these two Trithagorean turns into a minus correction term. Also nice, isn't it? Anyway, back to 60 degree triangles. Well, our Trithagorean theorem is very cute. However, it is definitely not as applicable Right, if you give me the length of any two immediately tells me what the third length Not so with our Trithagorean identity. However, there is also a nice A squared plus for 60 degree triangles that is just as applicable Here it is. A squared plus B squared is equal to C squared And also very easy to see why this is true of Pythagoras to general triangles taught Here is another nice way to conjure up this another way of writing our original Trithagorean Let's call the area of the equilateral triangle area. Then the 60 degree triangle with sides A and Bit of a challenge. Can you see at a glance why this is the case? If you can let us know in the comments. Anyway, this means T is equal to A times B Well this is an equilateral triangle and so is A times A times F, A^2F. And similarly with the B and C equilateral Now just divide by F and we are done. Slick, hmm? What about Trithagorean triples, counterparts Are there 60 degree triangles with integer What do you think? You should be able to answer that one :) Are Of course, there are ! :) Any equilateral 1,1,1, 2,2,2 and so on. Obvious. What about other 60 degree triangles? Not so obvious but, yes, there are such triangles. In fact our example over there is such a triangle. triple really satisfies that equation: 3 squared If I ever change the Mathologer diagram from diagram I'll base it on this special 3,8,7 Something like this. What do you think, time for a change of logo? Anyway, the official name for our Trithagorean after the 19th century genius mathematician Just like with Pythagorean triples there are triples. Before I move on, here is something cute. Overlaying these two triangles immediately Right, the sides of this blue 60 degree triangle triple 5,8,7. Nice, hmm. Here is something else that you'll like. Superimposing these two triangles gives a These sides have length 7, 3 and 8-3 = 5 Also just change the plus in front of the AB to Also super pretty. Anyway, do these triangular twists to the of approval? I sure hope so :) Okay so we have this pair this very similar pair for the squares We similar by relocating these two triangles. Now a bit of a facelift. Very pretty, don't you think. Anyway, while preparing for this Mathologer that nicely complements this pair. What does THIS diagram show. Well, ... the white triangles are all the There are 12 of them on the left and 6 on So let's cancel 6 on both sides. Also beautiful. The Hexagorean theorem :) Ready for another Okay, divide by 6. What's a regular hexagon divided by 6? Let's see :) There the Hexagorean theorem Trithagorean theorem for 120-degree triangles. You saw it first on Mathologer :) As I already stuff only seems to have been around for about Over there is a painting of amateur mathematician of the possible origins of the nice triangle This painting was also the inspiration for chapter. Okay back to the original twisted square diagram. Have a look at this. What you've just witnessed is yet another the twisted square diagram. Right, it's another proof? The top two squares have the same area as chop the top squares into ten pieces that square at the bottom. Really wonderful and unexpected, isn't it, shape at the top and bottom dissections which Of course, with all these visual proofs it and lengths in these diagrams to make sure really fit together exactly as suggested by our pictures for all possible triangles. Anyway, I checked, trust me :) And if you is another miraculous chop up proof based There are a number of interesting properties very mysterious at first sight. But once you remember the twisted squares Here are three great examples. Okay, take any right-angled triangle and attach Next, draw the line that cuts the right angle Now, no matter what right triangle you started center of the square. If you encounter this property in the wild But then you remember your twisted squares. And now everything is clear. Draw in one of the diagonals of the big square. Obviously this diagonal cuts the right angles And its also clear that it passes through Tada. Nice. I hope you still experienced a bit of an AHA squares as the solution in advance. Okay, here is how the second property is usually Start with a square and insert a right-angled Make three copies and attach them to the remaining Now what's the special property? Pretty obvious, right? All right angles are on a line! :) Very pretty. Again, very hard to see why this should be squares. One more. There are hundreds of different proofs of One of them is by the 20th American president It runs like this. Start with a right-angled triangle. Make a copy. And complete the resulting figure to a trapezium trapezium in two different ways. First using the formula for the trapezium triangles. Then some algebra autopilot, and out comes All, by now, a complete no-brainer. But doesn't this trapezium remind you of Yes, of course. It's really just half our favourite diagram Garfield's proof is exactly our original nothing really new. But, of course, I can see why it is great at maths and becoming an American presidents And so for propaganda purposes let's also came up with a new proof :) Having fun so far? Right, let's start with this special case blue square twisted 45 degrees. Let's squash the diagram a bit. Okay, relocating the triangles as usual is Let's say the sides of the blue rectangle just A? Don't worry about it. Whatever the lengths are in the diagram, we some numbers. Now the area of one of the two rectangles diagram on the right? Using Pythagoras we see that one side of the on the left is 2 times root AB. which is equal but this area is definitely not larger than length. Right? The areas of both the rhombus and the square Both shapes have the same base but the height also larger. What's the area of the square? Easy! Now this is a very famous inequality between positive numbers, the geometric mean on the So what we just proved is that the geometric or equal to their arithmetic mean. we just started with. First on the left. Then, reshuffled, on the right we get this Now, if we do exactly the same as we just get another super-famous inequality, the so-called You need a bit more maths background to be just do an animation of the relevant bits in the know and interested. But I also would like to show you one more that everybody watching To set it up we modify things a bit more. First we swap the two diagrams. And now we adjust so what all the sides of adjust so what all the sides of the parallelogram like this. Okay, now pencil in some of the angles. Then the lengths of the sides of our triangles like this. Also, we can find the two angles again inside Okay, in term of areas of the blue regions Almost there. The area of the parallelogram is equal to Base is 1. And height? Well that's just the sine of alpha plus And so the area base times height is this. Very nice, and so in total we get the addition How nice is that :) Did you see that one coming? :) Let's finish off with something totally Start with a square and place some bugs on Let's say that at some point in time each is facing right now and that all four bugs speed towards each other. With a setup like this what are some natural Well, how about this: Will the bugs ever catch If they do how long will their journey be? What are the equations of their journey? Which way will they be facing when they meet? How do things change if we use different starting Lots of mathematical fun to be had here :) Some answers were made popular populariser Martin Gardner in his column in the July 1965 issue of the Scientific American. Let me show you a nice twisted square way for how to come up with answers to some of First ask the bugs to forget about Martin Instead, ask them to run along 1/5th of the Now ask them to turn towards each other like Whoa, twisted squares and we've arrived a slightly smaller rotated square. Now let's ask the bugs to repeat everything So, cover 1/5th Turn towards each other. Cover 1/5th. Turn towards each other. And so on. Pretty spectacular. Two simple observations. 1. Because of the symmetry of everything that at all times. 2. From the way we repeat the same overall movement to the next we are rotating the orientation the size down by the same factor. Conclusions from this. Since we scale down by a fixed factor the do so infinitely often. Hence there are infinitely many squares and And, since the orientations of consecutive are infinitely many squares, on their journey often. That's a bit unexpected, isn't it? Now, does this mean that a bug's paths is Actually, no, although these paths wind infinitely length. Let's figure out how long one of these paths If the side of the square is 1 unit long, The remaining distance is 0.8. We find the side-length of the smaller square It's approximately 0.825. Since the outer side length 1 shrinks to 0.825 is the factor by which the squares shrink. This allows us to figure out the lengths of Right? Since the first segment is 0.2 long, the second length of the next segment we just have to that the total length of the path is this. The infinite series in the brackets is a geometric Since you are still here chances are you know by heart. It's just 1 over 1 minus the scale factor. With this the overall length of a path pans which is a little bit longer than one of the Interesting. If we reduce the fraction of the sides covered like this. If we reduce the fraction of the sides covered like this. Aha, the length of the path is even closer In fact, if we let the fraction of the sides turn into the picture that corresponds to And the length of the paths of the bugs in 1. How nice an answer it that :) Bye the way, Gardner's Scientific American article. Again, the bugs paths are exactly as long It's a pretty surprising answer, yes, but to see why the bugs path should be exactly Again leave your thoughts in the comments. I could report on many more ingenious results but let's call it a day for today. If you are interested in more neat details check out the links in the description of One last nice insight. Early on we encountered 2 types of twisted This one and that one There is actually a In this third diagram the triangles overlap Let's say A=1/2 and B=1 as in this example Once again, leave your hopefully surprising Okay and that's it from me for today. As promised, I'll leave you with an animation in the case of two numbers A and B.