I'm going to describe exactly why to single-phase power distribution systems and imagine a three-phase turbine as a single magnet coils are placed 120 degrees apart. This causes each of them corresponding to a different circuit 120 degrees out of phase with one another. In a have three different sinewaves 120 degrees apart The key benefit of three-phase power distribution these three neutral wires sum to zero. Let me coils inside of a turbine as a voltage source and waves are going to be 120 degrees out of phase going to be equal to one another. We're going to resistive load, and we're going to call it R sinewaves have equal amplitudes, so the only thing is the phase, 120 degrees apart from one another. and Phase C, and give them color codes. I'm or the negative side of our turbines &quot;neutrals&quot;. We have a current I sub A going out along the hot The same thing for Phases B and C. Let's write of the voltage and the resistive load. We can we have it for Phase A, Phase B, and Phase so we don't have to worry about sinewaves and time complex numbers written in polar form. Pocket from polar to rectangular form. For example for that's just one. But the second number - I could in polar form and then use a pocket calculator One at an angle of minus 120 degrees, in root of three over two times j. We get something pocket calculator with you, you can also convert We'll look at Phase C for an example. We're going into this number written in rectangular form. to the same point on the complex plane. This is The number we're starting with has a radius of one if this angle is 120 degrees, I know that this this number into rectangular form, what I'm really real axis, and this vertical distance here in the cosine of 60 degrees, which is one-half. one-half. That's why this number here is negative of 60 degrees and you might recall that the sine Now that we have expressions for the currents, three-phase power. We can see what's special if In such a situation, we would then have four the three phase currents A, B and C and then wire I sub N. Let's go ahead and calculate I sub that neutral current has to be the sum of the the imaginary parts are going to add up to zero, means that the neutral current is zero. That's the don't need a neutral at all. I could just simply all of this depends on everything being balanced. three phases. The loads - the resistive loads - can maintain balance in your power network then a lot of copper. In the instance, for example, loads is a little bit more than one of the other place in order to maintain the same voltages, but wire due to a phase imbalance turns out to be if you didn't combine the neutrals together at to handle situations of unbalanced loads, that wouldn't have to handle very many currents. When this way, it's called a &quot;star load&quot;. Now there's and I'll get to that in a moment but when the and that point is at the same ground or neutral can call that a &quot;star-connected load&quot;. Typically an earth. Although in this diagram I've not over to the load, of course we could have that three wires over here are called &quot;neutrals&quot;. The If the load is balanced then there wouldn't be a It's worth pointing out at this point, though, at zero volts, that doesn't mean that a lot of the amount of current flowing through these three dangerous, in other words. In order to get rid of star point of our load, the neutrals at the three balanced. Now, what do I mean when I say that the a little bit lower or a little bit smaller than that there would be less of a voltage drop across float above the ground. The voltage drop across in a power distribution system, you want stable of the wall to rise or fall if somebody in another going to use up some of the power. Grounding the sense. Systems can normally handle a small amount distribution system, it makes a lot of sense to three phases. This type of load connection, which If you rotate it a little bit, it looks a little out as &quot;wye&quot;. As I mentioned, quite often a current would flow through that neutral. It just single phase, dual phase, and three-phase power going to be using here is the ratio of copper power the network can deliver. A smaller ratio is also referring to aluminum because quite a lot of made out of aluminum. So we're not only talking than thinner wire so it makes a lot of sense if we possible, or wires with a smaller diameter. And we're actually restricting the maximum amount A thin wire cannot handle as much current as a up. So again, we're looking for a small ratio as possible passing through the distribution amount of power. Let's compare this metric with single phase system. Our distribution system lies two wires each carrying a current of I so I can units of current to one unit of power. I only have case is two. In a two-phase, three-wire system, we hypothetically in phase with one another, then I degrees apart only square root of 2I flows back my video on two phase power. I see two resistors, delivered here. Our comparison metric here works case. We don't have a neutral at all, so I have hots, zero units of current flowing back through delivered to the three different load resistors. three-phase is best; it's the smallest number. Not the best possible case. For example if I were or 12 phases, I would calculate a different going to help the situation any further. By using delivered through our network while minimizing the That's the advantage of three-phase. Whenever that they come in groups of threes. This is three-phase character, of our power distribution tend to come in groups of threes. It also doesn't everything tends to be three phases until you get you have a lot of single phase installations. they're always three-phase. We have a whole in order to help students learn the liked watching this particular video, then you