Okay, guys I need to ask you a question how hungry are you. Because today we're gonna be eating a whole city Yeah, but before we do that, I've just been told I have been nominated for a Teen Choice Award That's insane! The way that you can vote is in the description below It'll take you to a website where you can vote I think up to 10 times a day All you need to do is pop your email address in and go all the way down to choice Youtuber and you can vote who you like or you can go ahead and retweet the tweet in the description below but aside from that Let's get eating. So I found this game called hole dot IO Io so, it's another IO game which I know you guys love but instead of like think of agario but instead of just eating each other you eat building, cars and people Mm-hmm. I haven't played this at all, but we've got some colors to select It's already on the one I'd probably pick we have got pink we've got you know what? No, I'm just gonna be blue DanTDM is hungry Okay. Yeah, that works. Dan TDM is hubgry Let's hit play and let's see what happens to MN to be the first drag your finger to move the hole Okay, we're playing with other people and do we just eat anything? I've eaten a trash can that's amazing. Oh, so every time you eat something the hole gets bigger oh, I've eaten a lamppost so your hole gets bigger and then the bigger the hole gets and the bigger things you can eat cuz obviously I can't eat this van right now And I really want to let's eat this go on get in there no get inside my mouth. Fine I'll eat the trash can instead Oh my gosh you're already. No you're already massive. Yeah, the people you could actually eat the people come here. Come here. Come here go run right in what you're doing a One point for the hipster that's amazing. Uhhh, I got eaten by Ethan. Ethan is on 323 points! He's eaten buildings and stuff. Oh my goodness Ethan he's massive. Okay, stay away from him Definitely stay away from him. He's got 400 points. I've got four. He's got a hundred times what I'm rocking now, let's eat this this this How do you get to a bigger size? There's nothing left to eat? Ethan's eating it all. Oh bench come in the bench. I'm not even big enough. Oh, wait, wait wait Yes How do I get bigger things but these dudes a huge person numbed Hey, okay I've been upgraded now we get to eat people. There's only six seconds left I'm gonna take this person and I'm gonna eat you come here. Come here. No I came seventh which Which is last. Oh, dear. Okay. Let's try that again. Shall we we definitely went to the wrong location? Go for this hydrants. How how did you just eat all those things at once dancing man? I'll take dancing man. Take dancing woman. There's a dance party going on and I'm here to ruin it. Come here I just don't want to come last to be honest another person here. This is much better way better Can I eat these I can so I stopped. Can I eat? You come here come here coming right now. Yes, hahaha and the cars go in go and get the car get the car Oh, no, he's gonna eat no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no stay away from me. He's slower Okay, that makes a lot of sense. I see all these things. Oh, this is a better game and I'm bigger now Can I eat a car? Come on slow this car get in? Yes Okay, we are in here. We're still in sixth place, but that's fine I just need to get a little bit bigger so I can eat buildings and then we're good Actually, I can eat you come here. Come here. Oh, oh, he's just being a very nice. Try to eat me. It's so close He's just a little bit slower than me. Leave me alone, buddy. I will outrun you. Yes. Oh Jeez, I'm almost at the point where I could eat buildings, but I can't right now I have to take these little people out instead car park amazing. Let's take all of these Fantastic, it's guys gonna try to eat me. We're trying everyone cause cause give me what the cars. Yes sighs. Okay II buildings yet all this asteroid one Oh Turtle soaring buildings. This is actually Really really fun. I'm still in sixth place though, but I've done way better than before Give me all of these. There we go There we go. I think it skills that gives you the most though because every time you got to kill you're like plus four Or five and buildings are pretty goods, but not amazing Hey, we did way better that time. I came six instead of last Amazing 133 points. How are these people getting like 500 they must be killing people really early. This game is fun though. I like it. Bros before hoes right? Let's do this I'm gonna try and eat this person straight away get all of this straight away. There we go. I'm winning I just need to size up an e everyone can just eat the lamppost eat the lamppost Oh find a hotdog stand Get in my belly get in the belly get in the belly. There we go Chocolate wiggle it. No, why could I eat it after all these people and stuff instead. There we go That's better size me up. Can I keep cars I can trees a 1-point cars look like there were three points. I can't quite grab the big lorries yet I don't know what's going on guys things happening. I just want to eat this taxi. There we go much better size him up Give me give me this van. Give me this van. Why can't I eat the van? Oh, no I'm just in seventh place. Like before I was doing ok, this game is hard. Give me that ambulance Yes, now I can't eat that guy because he's a little bit bigger. Oh look all these people enjoying that afternoon. Not anymore Where does this already I mean like 10 people? Yeah, this just isn't happening. I'm 7th again. This dude isn't massive 600 points. How do these people do it? Oh, no. Oh no. Oh, no. I'm Definitely in the deep end right now They're trying to chase me you watch I'll come back when I'm large and I will eat you Yes, I think I can eat someone come here. I'm gonna eat you. Yes plus ten through x third. Let's not ruin this now Let's see as many cards as we can get because cars and kills are the best this Orange guy isn't as big as me because I've got more points than him as either police officer real quick Do you know come here always the same size? Okay. I need to eat a lot more stuff Oh, I don't know what's going on. Oh, geez, would you try any too many cars things? Just don't go your way or I'm stacking up these cars or improperly stacking up these cars. Let's go, dude I've hacked the game. I've hacked the game. I know what to do. Look all these cars that are going in. Yes. I'm third I'm actually third. Can I start eating buildings? Yep, okay, that guy's massive I don't know about buildings biking definitely you Dino second time. Come on. Come on. Come on I don't think I'm gonna win but I can at least eat as many cars as possible I could eat this tiny building as well. Okay, maybe not. Give me you. Thank you. Got 15 for that kill There's another guy over here, but I don't think I'm able to get him in time I was gonna merge all of these cars. There we go. Yes. Yes. Give me buildings. Oh Oh Did you say like inside yes Okay, that was good that was good two hundred and 69 points Someone had nine hundred and thirty four and they were just about to eat me. Okay, here we go. I've got the crowd already I just need to swallow all these trees get it up to a position where I can swallow cars and more people And then I'm pretty much good to go. I think swallow cars already as long as - don't go in at once Come on, sweet yourselves out. So what'd you sell us out? I just wanted one car. I'm fast. I've lost it I'm down to third already. This is bad. I just need to go. Okay, that's better Now if we go up here we should be able to munch all the cars, right? It's exactly what we did before as long as the cars come to me Absolutely fine get in there. There we go. Yes About the best way to get tons of points in this game come here cars. They were running away from me There's no running away from me now opponents. Come here. I just want to get to the size of a small building That's all that's well. There we go. Get in. Yes Apple dude. I'm swallowing Everything I'm gonna eat the whole city if I can Even the ambulance I'm going for I'm going in I don't even care about the health system right now All I care about is getting thing inside my belly. I think there's someone through here, right? Okay, here we go. Let's fill all these buildings in Someone's gonna try and eat me, but I could challenge you To try to chase me. They're out. You try to chase me. I've got so many buildings stuck in my mouth. It's insane I'm in second place. I might be able to do this. I don't know if I could eat a couple more people Maybe then I should be good. Come on get a couple more people eat eat eat everyone one 369 600 that's sane. Bye came second. Look at that We absolutely destroyed frenzy went on an eating frenzy and ate everything Everyone this used to be whoever gets to the point where they can eat the smaller buildings like the New York star ones The other guys they're gonna do okay in the end. Oh jesus is bad No, all odds are pretty good at the beginning those give you a lot of point. No. Oh, I just got eaten. No Oh come back come back and fit. This is a bad round. This is a really bad round. Okay, it's car time There you go. Drop it in drop it in. We've got all the way to third Someone's already on 280 though, which is 200 more points than me. Yes Yes Four points per building that's not so bad. This building is now stuck in me though I need so I'm swallowing all these buildings They're only well therefore per time, but I'm still in fifth place. Is it because I'm not killing anyone? I need to eat people man one hundred and ninety nine point six place. That's rough. Oh my goodness This guy is swallowing buildings looking in a big five hundred and twelve points are just chasing me down. This has been a terrible round That's insane. That's actually saying he just murdered that guy right in front of me, and I'm done. I'm done I'm gonna get eaten by him as well a grid. You know, what's happened? Oh, I ain't no one somehow I came third That's not so bad. Okay, this could be it. This could be if I get good run of cars coming up here I'm actually doing okay Just as I said that this guy tries to eat me. I need to find the other guys so I can eat them Never go. That's eat this guy, I think Oh, geez, I'm really not sure. What's going on? Yeah, I think there's a great on here. Yeah. I've got another kill Perfect-sized up as well. I should be able to eat this guy who is massive Yes, I'll dude I'm getting so many points right now. Don't get you to buy orange, though. Orange is slightly bigger than you Yes, another kill. Let's eat this giant building this tiny person, but a double kill going on right now I've got so many points but someone is even more than me. That's insane. I can eat all these little buildings now. Oh, That's crazy, man. It's so hard to be buzzed guys. This could be a good run This could be a really good run if I start eating buildings anytime I can eat this whole part right now. Oh my goodness Yes, this is it domination is about to happen. I'm gonna eat this ambulance station There's people on the roof that are going in as well domination Domination is about to happen. Let's eat Town Hall. Let's eat this dude. Just because we can oh, yes. Oh, Dude we are taking all the points right now Directly we could get big enough to eat that huge building at the top I've got two kills as well Three kills. Oh my goodness, cuz it um zooms out as well It means that you're eating massive things, even though it doesn't look like it All the cars get in my belly. I'm gonna eat you. I mean both these people because it times them out as well Which means they can't eat anything all dude. I'm witness. I'm eating massive skyscrapers Let's go. I knocked one into the ocean. Haha. This is great. Yes, I've 750 3 points 800 I can't to a thousand points. I can add to get to a thousand points that eat this Let's eat this what are the biggest buildings in the game? 14 points. Come on. I need to get to a thousand a thousand would be amazing Oh 905 oh it absolutely Smashed it. That was sick. I Don't know what the stars are about. You know what I think that's just your rank. I think you go up Let me do one more just to get this star, but we finally got to win a victory royale so to speak in whole IR this is This is a fun game. This is addicting game and I'm really enjoying it Okay, that was a terrible game still came fourth got two stars, and I've ranked up That's that's literally all that happens guys. That is a brand new game called hole dot IO I hope you enjoyed it If you did, please leave me a big fat like that would be greatly appreciated subscribe If you are brand new to join team TDM today for daily videos Um you can check out the game in description below go and check that out too teen choice and well as I've covered I've covered absolutely everything GUYS! I hope you enjoyed eating a city today go and eat your favorite building your favorite car Or even your favorite person in this game. It's a lot of fun and I'll see you in the next one. Goooooooooooooooooooood bye.