Transcriber: Poledt Cedillo It's first thing in the morning. I'm leading a meeting and I'm at the the plan for the week, when all the room starts yelling at me. What? She This isn't what I wanted. And then she what's going on here? Why aren't you I was stunned. Part of me wanted to yell Maybe she should have come to more than Part of me wanted to crawl into Maybe I hadn't pushed her Part of me wanted to just walk away. Fine. If this isn't what you want, All of those reactions pass through Have you ever been yelled at like that? If so, then you know that those kinds overwhelming. As if work weren't and deadlines and time crunch. Add conflict on top of that and Now, I think the real problem is that to take things personally, to or fight back or blame ourselves. What's Get present. Put it in perspective, So let's start with getting present. Having a calm, centered presence sets you Sounds great right? But Well, being present means taking a pause between your reaction to whatever what you say or do next. Let's Imagine that you're parenting a teenager. It's Saturday and they're going out with Oh man, that's not fair, they say before Now, in that moment, it's perfectly normal maybe even amused by their tantrum. But not everything that's going on the role that we're in Taking a pause gives you an opportunity a better response from your parent role as a leader. Staying in role can have One of my clients was really She was leading a major change initiative and her boss was really anxious so he kept grilling her, and coming up with new ideas of reports. And she just found this Here she was managing this big project the lookout for when she might get She was stressed out. Now, about four she looked totally relaxed and happy. I have a new boss, she said. This new boss was completely calm If she was anxious about Gloria's ability Instead, she was completely present and the impact on Gloria was huge. Having a boss who was calm in the face of and kept her focus on the task at hand. When you can stay calm and focused in the face of whatever is You set the stage for everyone Which brings us to our second step. Perspective is about rising above the the context. So let's go back In that example, you're in the the goal of keeping your kids safe and healthy by setting functional Your kid, on the other hand, is in the role of adolescent the developmental goal of finding their The conflict is built in. Your and their job is to push up against it. It's not about you and It's simply a function of the context, the different roles that you're in and the conflicting goals that they represent. So let's look at an organizational example Two leaders in a busy hospital You are being so disrespectful, Well, you're being completely says the head of pediatrics. Well, the head of obstetrics has the hospital that they will no longer the women coming into the labor unit. Instead, the staff will ask permission To them, this represents a way the mother to pediatrics. Though Knowing whether they've been exposed to care. They're working with This is a real conflict, a Do you look out for the needs of the The real solution is going to take which is less likely to happen if they're When we lose sight of the context we tend to get competitive, wanting to We blame pathologize or dehumanize Having perspective gives us a bird's eye and structures and goals might be And then we can work through and find common ground. Which brings Staying in partnership. One writer a relationship in which we're the success of whatever it is Now, if you're in a conflict with someone, it's because there's something you're whether that's raising a teen or running or caring for patients in working in partnership means that you moving out of the reactions that you have. Taking that pause that we talked about, and refocusing on the goal and finding and engage the other side The most important thing you can do in you're talking to one another. One writer says that communication is the first problem we need to solve before When we're having a reaction to someone, blaming. We might become sarcastic We might get into a polite fight where we pretending to agree when we really don't, those behaviors create a lot the way of our information getting across On the other hand, when we're in our role, we're present and fully focused We're likely to use behaviors that lead Things like paraphrasing the other person or asking questions to understand or stating clearly and calmly how we the situation. Those behaviors and move us toward shared solutions. Now remember that client who yelled Chances are pretty high that I would a hole of self-blame or walked away. But because I knew these three strategies, Instead, I got present, and reflected back what she had said. This isn't getting you the result that That's presence and partnership. Yeah, that's right, she said. Okay, Let's go ahead with the plan for the day. And while the group is working, let's huddle and get refocused on your the outcome you want from the rest How does that sound? I said, And with that, we were able Now you'll be able to handle conflict and reduce burnout if you put it in perspective and stay