Welcome back Brat summer, am I right? Today we're talking about Charli XCX. Let's dive in. [music] Yeah, 360. When you're in the mirror, When you're in the mirror, Cambridge England was born in August 1992. Growing up in Essex, like Britney Spears When she was 14, to fund an album called 14. Her stage name at the time, Charli XCX. though it did find its way I'm not going to cover it in detail I don't really care about it, doesn't really like it, and three, from what would become There are a couple like Franchesckaar!, are Kate Nash and Lily Allen. Her initial releases Get this, searching that because it thinks I just wanted a playlist Two of the songs from 14 but more would instead be released They got her enough attention and a deal with Asylum Records She didn't really pick up until she went out to LA like Ariel Rechtshaid With Ariel, she wrote two songs on the music blogs in 2011. With Patrik, but one of them stayed since it didn't align She gave it and they released it in May, 2012. [music] I don'care, I love it God, this explosive ode to sensation, burn your ex's stuff. Do you care? In contrast with the sound, was a slow burner. It didn't hit the billboard charts What exactly led it From my research, being the theme for the show, or its appearance where Hannah and Elijah do drugs. Imagine voting for president It is also very big in Germany. I thought this fucking song What the fuck are you doing? [music] In April 2013, debut with True Romance. When I was younger, in the dark of night, Nuclear Seasons. [music] We in the nuclear season. Nuclear Seasons remains A perfect introduction, but to Charli and her voice. Like I did with many albums I played Nuclear Seasons to the rest of the album The rest of the album back to the pop adjacent indie music Crystal Castles, Stay Away with its So Far Away What I Like You (Ha Ha Ha) Good debut, of the week out of 23 points. [music] True Romance earned Charli XCX, pop girl table, to rest on her laurels. That same year, went to Sweden Today it exists This punk record got scrapped but that doesn't mean this new record Sure, she was writing songs but also Rivers Cuomo of Vampire Weekend. Her first song of 2014 expanded horizons geographically. [music] First things first, In February 2014, with Australian rapper [music] I'm in- This is so funny. into what pop music one of the most nothing years Imagine if any of this Imagine if Iggy Azalea into country music. Imagine if she got Imagine if she won. It's also Charli's only song which is even funnier, to Charli's second hit in 2014. Think about it, Stars. Faults that are in their country, Isn't it obvious now, In June 2014, to The Fault in Our Stars movie Make sure you Shazam for more. Honestly, I don't have much it's a nice poppy love bop, seven on the billboard chart. Her second top 10 hit To close out her biggest year yet, in December 2014. Some record exec was like, You know who else is British? who created the UK punk scene.&quot; There is a heavy emphasis You won't hear them much and that makes me sad. What also makes me sad is in some aspects. Break The Rules has an EDM build. I don't wanna go to school There's a song with Rita Ora on it. Charli popping up In practice listening to Sucker between the rock and the 2014. Sometimes it feels like other times it feels like at Freddy's also came out in 2014. Many consider and maybe I can see that considering but there's a unique energy At the very least, that's an excellent track. [music] Well, fuck you, sucker. Sucker was a pretty big success I have to say that I love your music. that you have is Royals. Where did you get In the same month it came out, in the studio for her third album, by Japanese pop music. Before that though, Charli XCX's best song. I know it's early to be saying that, there's no way Drop That Kitty. [music] Drop that kitty down low We celebrate We could celebrate more. That Kitty was a collab Ty Dolla $ign, and Tinashe. It's also a blueprint When Charli says, I'm going to make you explode, with appreciation for life. Jia Tolentino called it at the club and of every variety. God bless Ty Dolla America $ign.&quot; that her new album would be and the most electronic thing.&quot; Later in October, of that new record. [music] Let's ride. Let's ride. Vroom Vroom marrying anarchic energy The punk pop of Sucker but it didn't sound anarchic. This does. like the snout at bubble wrap but most importantly, [music] What was this? in the same blog spaces there was a new hotness This sub-genre pop that always felt like Vroom Vroom marked with producers in that space, Cook and Sophie. Vroom Vroom was later featured in February 2016. Trophy is another highlight. [music] I want that trophy. I always wondered and I always thought it of some drag queen Now I want to dance, I want to win. What's interesting is that is the more defining song Trophy has been more places. You just hear it more or video game soundtracks. The other two songs are fine, anything for me. They could have just been Vroom Vroom and I still would have enjoyed it. [music] Vroom Vroom got mixed reviews but nowadays to the Charli XCX Bible proper. Suffice it to say, for the foreseeable future. All four tracks would be Cook became Charli's creative director Charli also said would come out in 2017. Yes. came in October 2016, After the after the party, We're going to keep it going We're going to rip it up, I don't know, it's okay. between genuine party sing of past memories. For some reason, I don't know why, further questions. As yet, another teaser Charli released the mix tape, This one is comprised for her third album, without getting permission This is likely the reason was delayed a month initially. Compared to Vroom, like Danny L Harle, and Uffie, and CupcakKe. I've now run out of big facts How can I say this I don't really care The most noteworthy thing about it Dreamer has Raye on it, That's cool. [music] Okay, okay, My roommate over here, that knows all that has been, has been begging me to tell you still hadn't come out yet. Two months after Number 1 Angel, to spring 2018, in July 2017 with Boys. Charli's first song While the song is nice, for its music video There's a boy, there's a boy, Boys everywhere. wasn't enough Come on, Charli, They'll do anything. Be thankful it wasn't drone strikes. Charli's third album The story is, on a Google Drive link The album and according to Charli, but [?] to Carly, a whole new third album, In December 2017, While Vroom Vroom were successful, Pop 2 is where It's a defining document was before that term got You know what's wild? Yes, it's fine. and other ones that I like Backseat obviously. I like Unlock It, I really liked Femmebot and of course, Track 10 is a classic It's so good she would use it The rest of the songs The whole album has like it's a playground and the dozen plus collaborators their highest sonic aspirations. When that works, it's bliss. Still worth checking out though. [music] Like I said, was cancelled, and made another one. with the final one being the lead I'm not building up the third Charli album This third album as Charli's third mix tape, into an album proper. Was that complete overhaul worth it? In September 2019 Charlie Before Chappell Roan took the title, was your favorite The guest list here of how many Blame It on Your Love with Lizzo 1999 and 2099 both had Troye Sivan. Cross You Out one musical appearance Warm has Haim. of what it means to shake it, I shake it, I shake it, and Pabllo Vittar, Of course there are also songs I used to think these solo with the collaborative tracks. I've since recognized is a figment of my imagination They're fine, of course. the Opener Next Level Charli I just don't revisit to the full thing. Charli is a full thing. and guests, and personality. An even more realized version and one of the best [music] Chart-wise, Charli did fine. on the billboard album chart. No hits, really, Blame It on Your Love, Lizzo was blowing up one of her hits that year I would have though the rising tide that particular boat, but alas. Charli was on top because she ate the mega mushroom a little key with Toad. Once again not resting Charli announced that she would be recording and releasing them Let's see. [silence] What did she know? Yes, that plan got altered but she was nimble. She started doing live streams and in April she announced whilst in isolation. One that would seek inputs song ideas, et cetera. In May 2020, Charli told us, To me this is the COVID album. because they were bigger, to really take advantage Where Charli, the album, Hyphen only has two, A. G. I think that leads to this album which makes for a nice contrast You just had the three-course meal, Forever, Anthems, Pink Diamond, I would say in the club, my old three-bedroom apartment. The top song for me I didn't mention it, on Charli called Click. It's a wee bit of a posse cut C2.0 is a reworking of Click. in a new verse in chorus. It's not only a bop, With the part where Charli sings- [music] I miss them every night. In May 2020 that hit home hard. I feel like Charli XCX this perfect blend of hyperpop style, This could be the perfect time and make this sound mainstream. Maybe with an album so mainstream [music] How I'm Feeling Now was received and it sold even less, Charli was immediately back she was working on An album she described Finally she was listening to the fans the Janet Weiss album In March 2022, we got Crash. this was Charli's attempt she had earned over the decade into actual commercial success. You know what? She worked her ass off. pop music of the 2010s, I don't want us to forget brat summers. The lead up Crash was pegged by many, including Charli. She described it as her major and her attempt at being satirical. Sorry, that was me rubbing my temple popped out of my head. Charli said this album a major label popstar, a major label popstar. Listen, it's fine to play the game, you clearly are. Don't claim satire as a shield. with her new Woman's World song, It may seem like and I am, The title track, excellent opener. and those tight vocal harmonies. Yes, boy. Good Ones and Baby, but here's the problem, I can't really tell you I just do. I take them on a date but not Red Robin. Sometimes the mark Yuck is [beep], because Charli said it first. Beg For You should have been Take two samples add in Rina Sawayama, bam. Yet, you know that line to maximize their joint slay? Imagine that said as a white guy seeing his buddy &quot;Oh, ho ho ho ho. coming together to maximize See, that was terrible for all of us. It's just okay. Thank you for saving my life again. to Charlie, but the good songs [music] This next section that may be triggering with photo-sensitive epilepsy. Viewer discretion is advised. was just commercial success, Crash became the highest to that point. Reviews were solid, as Charlie or Hyphen. The next two years for movie soundtracks. She contributed a song Served as co-composer for Bottoms. on the Barbie soundtrack That one landed at 73 making it her first entry At the start of 2024, starting with a Boiler Room Next level so legit Cook, Addison Rae, Julia Fox, who is the 1975 drummer From that point on, she was likely There's something very crucial here. made Charli look so cool. [music] It looked like everywhere she went, the greatest party ever. Like the young woman who started out into the ultimate club host. The aura of this era that another Pop Girls album rollout because it was deemed Even though I do think For real, guys, of ripping off artists, In June of this year, What makes Brat so different -And if I was handsome You're green with it. Can we all admit now The moment I saw it, Clearly it's been a success Its sheer omnipresence I drove out to Ohio a while back on the road &quot;Brat Wrangler.&quot; My brain is broken, aside from being green. For example, it's good. stands for, because I wasn't initially jazzed Took me until I saw it It's also funny onto the authenticity of the rollout, stand out like a sore thumb. At the start why is that crowd so small? That's like four paparazzi. Atlantic couldn't have found and thrown them Other songs caught 360 with its like 30 memeable lines, So I, the touching tribute Sympathy is a knife, That one has united all people. Glen Powell, the Amish. I really like the closer 365 for album enders that bring back the opener, pulling a Sergeant Pepper We also got extra tracks My favorite is Guests. of The Dare. The most impactful though wasn't it was released on its own. Girl, so confusing, featuring, Lorde. but apparently, weird energy for years now. What did they do? [music] Let's work it out The verse Lorde adds and more stream It's insanely revealing, especially how it ends. [music] Cause I ride for you, Charli Yes, Brat might be unless he drops. [music] As of now, Brat is album of 2024. In a wonderful turn of events, most commercially peaking at number three How the rest of this Brat summer Here's my educated guess I'm making these predictions on the morning of Sunday, July 21st. First off, later today, he won't be running His VP, Kamala Harris will become in the 2024 election. Charli will tweet something out which will lead to a tsunami of memes tying the two together. Again, I'm recording We'll just have to wait If you want to get I'd recommend Charlie, and Brat plus the Vroom Vroom EP. If you want to hear more and their albums and their stories, on Lana Del Rey. Before I go, because they didn't pay me I just like the product and I have the opportunity Qobuz is much like you use now, but better. The music is available or even all the way up You can hear Charli's music Each album that put the music in context, which is a nice human touch