- Somebody said, &quot;Your burger has magic.&quot; (upbeat music) The basic science is that you start to render the and the salt starts to mix and you add the onions. Now you have this wild Onions are trapped into that and you have beef steam. You put the cheese and the bun on top, and now you have this science and onion steam is now ...you're making me hungry. I'm making myself hungry That's all right. What we're doing is American burgers and as (upbeat music) Every morning, we prep beef, which means we ball and portion beef. This is Donaldo. Donaldo is Look at the beef. See what it looks like? See the color of that? It's pink. It's not red and white. It's pink. It's been finely ground, and that's how you make The tighter the grind, to smash and not break up on the griddle. We get a 75/25 straight chuck We get a lot of it. We Now I didn't make this up. This is just a way to ensure that every burger's the same This is the perfect size. And Look at that. Every ball is People think it's used for ice cream, but we like to use 'em for burgers. So 75/25 is not recommended It can get kind of fatty of fat on your grill, you can cause a grease It's best left to the professionals to use a higher fat content burger. We'll probably do 400 pounds We only use sweet onions. It's Vidalia sweet onion, comes from Peru. I'm working on the griddle, I or the U.S., I can tell right away, those are definitely Peruvian. They're sweeter, they slice This is the onion slicing I've got about five minutes So this is the machine we use. I used to cut onions on the deli slicer. I think every onion was about one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. I would count and I would get up with like this pile, see right here, and that would've taken me, what I call Dark Side of the Moon 'cause what I would do, I would listen to The Dark Side of the Moon. It would take me Dark Side of It just took this machine That's why we're doing it. We probably go through, just today alone, 250 pounds, you know? Before there was ketchup, the onion was the first condiment. First time I had an I was like, &quot;I can't eat that. I can't eat that many onions.&quot; I saw 'em piling 'em like, And I took a bite and I'm It's almost like candy. I do believe that the hamburger is one of the last 125 years in America. There was ethnic food but it was actually called which was shortened to, or which had just became a hamburger. It became officially an American food, an iconic American food in the Midwest at state fairs. (upbeat music) Buns stored, we're actually This will probably get us through the day, but we have another especially for the weekend. We'll go through three times We use a lot of Martin's, as you can see. Big fan of Martin's potato of the most perfect They're a little denser and and toasting much better than A lot of buns, if you toast and steam goes through the bun and it can start to break of the bun. But because this bun is so dense, it actually lasts a little This is kind of the perfect And when you bite into a that happens is your nose And it's very important for the flavor profile of the first bite. And with Martin's potato rolls, the first thing you smell is yeast. And whenever you smell &quot;Whoa, let's go! Here we go, it's gonna be fun!&quot; And then there's all this crazy action that happens when you And depending on what's hopefully everything that's on the burger, it is going to only Your brain has already and that complex compound, and it's just ready for whatever's next. We only have three burgers on the menu: the classic smash, the fried onion burger, but we have a special rotating burger, called the monthly burger special. For example, right now, we have the Doodle burger on the menu. Doodle burger comes from, the now closed, Yankee Doodle in New Haven, Connecticut. No one's had this burger in 16 years before we put it on the menu and people actually got worked up and we had people crying at the counter. - [George] We're gonna - We always set up our specials over here in this corner. The bun, it's from Rockland Bakery. It's a pretty standard small version of a classic white squishy bun. It's the closest thing we could find to what they made at the We're using actually a smaller ball. It's actually a two-ounce It would be too big if it was three ounce. So a hundred percent chuck, 75/25. In the case of the Doodle, there are people who've actually tried to recreate the Doodle and I was shocked at how they really just They didn't look at the details. You know, I had to get in the the grandson of the Beckwith family, who ran the Doodle at the (steady music) So this burger only and it also gets a tiny pinch of onion right in the center. That's the way Rick did it. Rick didn't really care about He would use yellow American cheese. He would use, like, the We have tried to recreate that because there's something about all those cheap really create a great burger and a great burger experience. And so we created a burger that really generated sense memory. We do this to keep it authentic. So I wanted to make sure So I asked a bunch of friends of mine who remembered the Doodle. So I called some friends who went to Yale and grew up in New Haven and And all of them said, &quot;A The only thing I got Every time we make one of it blows my mind that we Even the way we have it on the plate was exactly back in the day where served with a small paper And people look at me, Said, &quot;What do you think?&quot; I pick up the red relish and I squeeze it on top. Exactly. (upbeat music) I love this burger. This is one of the greatest things we have in the restaurant. It's also fascinating See it's all butter? Ooh, see that? It's so basic. I'll show you how this thing works. Butter on there, drop in Well, it's very Willy Wonka, you know? It's got drippy stuff It's a wise piece of hamburger machinery. We need it because we toast So I'm gonna start by and two, all the way At this point, the Oklahoma fried onion The other burger on the menu of what I consider to be one of the most classic the classic smash, but which we call all the way, pickle mop, M-O-P, that's it. So it's basically diced onion, and two dill pickle chips and that's it. And that is pretty classic to the Midwest. (upbeat music) So onion burger has The smash method only The guys who were selling hamburgers back in the day were usually and factory workers They'd eat quick, they had to feed a lot of factory workers at the same time. Smashing a patty meant speed. That was it. These are mine. I made these. These are custom made. We have them made at a but it weighs a pound, it weighs one pound and the angle in for the way I like to make burgers. It was a point at about seven at the right temperature and the right ingredients and everything. But seven minutes in, the onions break, almost in the same way like you break down the connective tissue in brisket after like 12 hours, whatever, It's that moment where and like, okay, I give up and that's when it tastes the best. So these are all smooths, the bun setup up, right? This is the fastest, best way to make sure your bun The reason it's been done for years, because this is a very simple way to make sure the bun stays soft, but the buns are already soft as they are. But the buns will collect a lot of airborne beef freeze and onion steam. That's all onions do, A lot of onions, burger put it to the side, cook it for, you know, seven, eight minutes and then serve. I actually like to I told all of our cooks of the process to actually be (upbeat music) Fry dump. So somebody asked me and said, &quot;Why are these fries so good?&quot; I said, because you're I said, they only travel nine That's why these are good. I'll make one of my favorite sodas. You ready? Check this out. Pour some ice, right? You ready for this one? You watching? Skip diet Coke, go to Coke. This is a drink called the Witch Doctor. The witch doctor is from a burger spot in North Carolina called What-A-Burger, not Whataburger, but What-A-Burger. The reason this is so good is because the pickle adds a complexity that you wouldn't normally find in a soda. It's not like a one note sweet soda. It's like a two note, three of garlic and vinegar, It's on the off menu. Maybe it's a secret. I feel like it's been my that people appreciate on a much more complex, deeper level. There's a lot more to of these burgers, and I wanted you know, regional diversity abounds. There's so much going on of hamburgers that people even I don't realize yet. Counter's pretty full right now. This is nice. We're off and running. You know, it's only the We're open for another The customer experience People walk up to me and they say, &quot;It just feels so good in here.&quot; I feel like my job is to make people happy through hamburgers. (upbeat music)