Why Is It So Tough To Go To Alpha Centauri? So, you're dying to get to Alpha of course... Let's say you're soon. Right? But when? And what will It's not an easy question to into that, let's recap the situation a bit... Alpha Centauri is a system made up of three stars: Alpha Centauri B (officially Toliman), and Alpha Centauri A and B form a binary pair of Sun-like while Proxima Centauri is a red dwarf orbiting light-years. Then there's Proxima b, a planet Units--over 20 times closer than Earth is to the Proxima is only 4.246 light-years from Earth, closest star to our Solar System. This also to Earth and the eighth on the list for &quot;Earth So, it's no surprise that since its discovery potential interstellar mission. This marked achieve this feat. Before its discovery, our vague and ambitious. But with the discovery of a clear goal! Isn't it true that Proxima b could OK, folks, let's not kid ourselves. our nearest star, is 266,000 times and 103 million times greater than the distance we Even a beam of light, traveling the laws of physics, takes 4.3 while it takes less than 8 and a half minutes These numbers, in their relentless inevitability, encapsulate the problem of interstellar End of the line, then? Unlucky Well, maybe not... actually. The data indicates that the typical light-years of the Sun is about 9 distance to Proxima! Statistically In light of these facts, we might need to that we've been quite lucky to have Sure, it could have been even better, but a star right in our backyard... with all some of which could be quite negative... This allows us to look at the endeavor optimism that, however, plummets to mount a mission capable of getting us there. To realize our current technological on the fact that Voyager 1, currently the is moving away from the Sun at 61,000 kilometers if maintained, would allow it to reach a star years! While if we relied on the fastest capable of reaching 700,000 kilometers could make it in just over 6,500 years... It's clear then that traditional the &quot;gravity assist&quot; from Jupiter and Saturn, and a drastic technological leap is necessary. In this regard, many ideas have been proposed: to those powered by matter-antimatter These are only theoretical solutions, development and enormous technological For a distant future (and still to be verified), (which exist only in our imagination) fanciful solutions based on extreme which some say could allow travel But unfortunately, it's not just about spaceships... it's not just about waiting for As we will see shortly, there is a if not prevents, our plans for free For interstellar travel to become appealing to ambition, curiosity, and competition we would need to significantly increase speed. But And this impossibility is also demonstrated by the &quot;Hey, guys, just a moment before we continue... Click on the bell, you will help us to As Albert Einstein first noted in 1905 no object with mass can exceed the speed of on considerations that seemed (and still seem) are used to evaluating the physical phenomena the fact that the limit has been verified in the universe we know are concerned, there is Einstein demonstrated that the energy &quot;E&quot; of any famous equation (E=mc^2), where &quot;c&quot; is the speed 186,322 miles per second in a vacuum. that energy and mass are equivalent entities exactly what happens when we accelerate the energy we impart to it slightly increases its more energy is required to further increase the this mass increases the system's inertia, In practice, the closer you get to the speed object becomes. For example, if traveling at would have a mass of about two tons. Thus, or spacecraft to surpass the &quot;light barrier&quot; would speed practically unchanged. This is why the Objects with mass, in short, resist being and the closer you get to that speed, further. And even if some magical device it would still take 4.3 years to get to Proxima maximum speed achievable in our universe, our of the Sun but certainly could not establish a But let's not give up so quickly. Yes, because mass is not the only quantity that in relativistic space travel is time dilation. time does not flow uniformly for all closer the observer measuring a given Leaving aside the physical and mathematical verified--that on board a spaceship leaving time passes more slowly compared Imagine a spaceship traveling at 95% light-years away. A stationary observer as distance divided by speed, or 9.5/0.95 on the other hand, experience time dilation and In other words, between leaving Earth and age a little over three years, while 10 This time discrepancy arises from a very simple that if a spaceship accelerates to 50% of (c), more slowly than on Earth, while at 75% of (c), the speed reaches 99% of (c), time on board will of (c), time will pass 70 times more slowly; then on board the spaceship, time will 100% of (c), it will seem... to stop completely! about the possibility of moving freely within the in practice, that for an observer moving with light, their journey to any destination--whether be practically instantaneous! Don't We want to travel from Earth to the Andromeda away. If the journey were conducted with an to a speed of 99.99% of (c), it would obviously on board the spaceship... the perceived duration By increasing the speed by just a tiny bit (just the speed of light... and then Andromeda could be If it were really possible, then we could indeed where spaceships travel effortlessly from does time dilation solve the problem? Well... unfortunately, no. As we saw earlier, approaches the speed of light, it would ultimately of propulsion could give us this gift. And even methods we cannot currently foresee, there is also very close to that of light would be Space is not empty. It is actually full of more complex forms like gas and dust while other times they remain solitary atoms collide with another atom for thousands of years. between two hydrogen atoms in a cubic centimeter enormous flow of particles that will collide Particles that are almost harmless they turn into a deadly rain of projectiles capable of severely damaging the hull and occupants. These particles, intercepted acquire such great energy as to become Not to mention that at such speeds, veil could completely destroy the that interstellar matter alone will reaching speeds greater than one-tenth of is absolutely insufficient to support a network Here's the final part of the translation, Even if all these difficulties were overcome, problem: time dilation would cut all and its home planet! Only the crew would for the inhabitants of Earth, time would the 11 years perceived by the crew The astronauts would leave knowing they or friends again, unless they brought them along they would find a society profoundly different of travel could not allow for the existence Federation of Planets suggested in Star Trek, different races, which presuppose a homogeneous homogeneity that is not compatible with the times What could motivate a future commercial enterprise knowing it would never see or communicate Any spaceship venturing into the realm of a world unto itself: without a homeland and Indeed, this is a scenario destined never to materialize. Enrico Fermi tells us this The Italian physicist asked: if our galaxy really why aren't their representatives already here? consideration: the universe as we know it and based on what has happened to our a planet of a solar-type star to generate civilizations evolved before ours and had eons Their absence is therefore proof that the speed of light is an endeavor beyond the the answer to Fermi's question is this: if extraterrestrials do not exist, but simply capable of nullifying distances: neither warp We, like all other inhabitants of the Galaxy, backyard, content with a few laborious exploratory is all in terms of exploration conducted different if &quot;interstellar exploration&quot; meant Initially, missions directed at the intelligent robotic probes, miniaturized capable of traveling at 0.1c. But extraordinary progress in biotechnology, genetic and cellular physiology, it becomes clear humans themselves could quickly spread throughout Tipler and described by Arthur C. Clarke in the In practice, this would involve creating so-called upon reaching their destination, would be able to living beings (including humans) from available code information and instructions for embryo of a world is successfully initiated, the von spacecraft and new automata, destined to fly The propulsion? Sails! A promising proposal is represented problems of mass and heat are solved by pressure exerted by a beam of radiation the problems of energy and travel duration solutions. Since the original idea the concept of the interstellar sail has undergone limit the energy requirements of the journey and the main elements of the system would consist probably placed in space; a gigantic lens used to beam even at great distances, and the actual radiation and being significantly accelerated by we don't mean a racing spinnaker, but something at Accelerated to 0.2c in just two weeks, the Starwisp could reach the Alpha So, we leave you with this faint hope. the launch of the first probes. It won't but it will still be a great