Berlin. November 1884. Palace An international conference is organized. forgotten today. Yet it sealed the Its objective: at a time when the reach agreement between Westerners on Discussions will last several months. No African will be invited. Africa and will never set Without knowing almost anything about the riches And first of all Baron It was he who convinced Jules to embark on the colonial adventure. role was decisive in the conquest of earlier at the expense of France... Portugal would like to take his place... Portugal and England had agreed Congo River without the agreement of the other powers. and France to organize the Conference. Chancellor of the German Empire! transcriptions of the words exchanged, in perfect French. They allow us to The inaugural session is chaired by good-natured appearance: the most powerful man in the world. deprived France of Alsace and Loraine. First of all, I would like to share with you All our leaders share the desire to associate by opening the interior of this continent to the definitive abolition of slavery. offers a guarantee of success to our work with Africa and at the same time serve The Conference wanted to write a it wrote one of the darkest pages. in the face of the challenges they face. Berlin's mentality is to say &quot;we are going to everything. We want you well, we will do you be grateful. So you can there is in the Berlin project. by the great European powers to on this continent to prevent other We hoped to find new wasn't the most important thing. It was above in the long term for the 21st century. Russia was big, and then came control huge territories. But all of The Berlin Conference, basically, determined a Africa by the Europeans. This is because it opens and determines a space that is accessible to all. continent of 30 million square kilometers even asking Africans for their opinions. Africa gives rise to the very legitimate desire currently unoccupied and unexplored territories to civilization. Portuguese and, more recently, the Germans - If the conquest of the continent is in their upset the balance of power in Europe. taxes and customs barriers in certain places in Africa caused so much conflict. is therefore established as follows: in the Congo Basin and its mouths. Congo River and the Niger River. possession of new land. to take the risk of new conflicts he did not see very favorably that Germany and Great Britain, especially in Africa. favorable to France. He hoped to be able to War of 1870. And Africa seemed France and Germany thought that it formalities to be observed for effective and to prevent any disputes. His Britannic Majesty, our Thank you, Mr Chancellor. in general agreement with those expressed by Congo's markets is desirable, the well-being They would lose more than they would gain reasonable control, were to degenerate. us, and yet the decisions of the The first phase of discussion in the Congo Basin and its mouths. Her Majesty's Government is in favor of this. territory in the mouths of the Congo; a Portuguese claim them for having approached them trading posts there and are eyeing the right bank of the The English occupy the mouths of the protectorate there that they do not plan to share... impractical: Firstly, the river is is in the hands of tribes who are difficult to control. of trade to the Senegal River or the Zambezi, for our Portuguese friends and our French friends would think of it, but I am authorized to discuss such an extension. Mozambique; France, around the Senegal River. Mr. Courcel? straight into the heart of the debate, I propose next Wednesday at the same time. Africa is the last of the inviolate continents. slaves to its shores; today, it is attention. Jules Ferry, President of the Council... Etc. Etc. After declarations imbued with the English nation - and which veils from his Mr. Malet said to himself authorized the regime of free movement testifies to an exclusivism and a harshness to quite lively resign itself to making quite notable concessions, Signed Baron de Courcel.&quot; borders at this time because they are not seeking to they are keen to have some influence in mind that there are quite parts of Central Africa. The idea much more economical, much Exercising direct authority would be an was launched, the English were forced to the French and Germans, among others. The Conference, which did not wish to offend opened with the question of the Congo River. rivalries between Westerners. who is ailing, has entrusted me with the eminent The opinion of Portugal, which has very long to our high assembly. I give the floor who has arrived to us from Lisbon. Gentlemen, The government of His Most of establishing freedom of trade in the Portugal has established a 8deg south latitude, territory incorporated The Portuguese are rediscovering a continent that they had discovered in the 15th Do not forget, Gentlemen, the seeds of civilization into Africa! Thank you, Mr. Marquis. Would the be willing to communicate New World? Gentlemen, large areas including much of had remained unknown. Henry Morgan Stanley, his courage, and his talents as an explorer, the light of civilization My government making these territories neutral I remind all delegates that it given in French, in accordance with the Excuse me Mr. President. To this end, the patronage of a European philanthropist. I am Gentlemen. I would like to recall the eight years ago when he summoned the "The subject that unites us today: opening where it has not yet penetrated, breaking through entire populations, is - said the King of the Belgians - a And this is how responsible for carrying out these noble objectives. Leopold II said to himself "we will see if there is he has just suffered failures in China and the find a colonial estate, he says to himself &quot;well, What is very striking, the resources were only discovered well after the The idea was to set up a certain for scientific purposes on the one hand, slave trade. These posts were Europeans who would settle There is, let's say &quot;apparently&quot; an philanthropic nature. So I will not say fundamental goal was an economic goal and possibly new resources. negotiated in parallel, at the time when bilateral treaties recognizing And King Leopold II added: &quot;I am will not go so far as to say that I would be headquarters of this civilizing movement.&quot; the Leopold II Association. It was he who had of the Association over part of The International Association of Congo obtained The traditional African chiefs, illiterate, were incapable of understanding the Their signatures, simple crosses, bear witness to this. the International Association of Congo as well of giving the greatest expansion This new state, that of the that the government and civilization of the This is what little French schoolchildren were taught 1885, it was Paul Bert who wrote: &quot;The Negroes, not very sometimes gathered together in quite large numbers to make of the land is at its most simple. most inaccessible regions of Africa, far yellowish skin. But the intelligent race destroy and subjugate them. others, it is the one to To classify this human diversity we are passionate about the study of skulls and be the key to proving to understanding the diversities of we chase the skulls, we dig them up, the first measurements showed that the volume of the than that of European populations. Well, but there obvious... But ultimately the interpretation of in the direction of imagination of the time. ultimately be grafted onto ancient ideas since the encounter with the other, we have seen through scientific postulates, same configuration as ours, they are therefore they need the colonizer who will the discussions promise to be complicated, to defuse the problems. United States recognized the Association of Leopold chaired by Baron de Courcel; a gesture France... Dear friends, I believe it would be wise for simple question: how to define this Congo Basin? have to speak on this Thank you Mr. President. shows such interest in the region! Plenipotentiaries, the Congo Basin is the Benai, the Shari and the Nile. to the South by the But if the Commission wanted to offer it would then be necessary to find a geographical definition of the Congo Basin. The question of defining the Congo Basin fears that its possessions in Gabon will Now everyone lays down their cards. invited Mr. Stanley to come and Stanley is the most popular explorer of made it known to the whole world. it is a very great honor for our High Baron. Gentlemen. I am very honored. Thank you. Leopold II for years. He has just returned from a Gentlemen, I am delighted illustrations of my travels First, I sailed Until reaching Atlantic Ocean. I solemnly declare of nearly 13,000 km, emblem or symbol of a civilized power Berlin takes place at a time when the West, the perceiving any civilization whatsoever in Africa of Berlin, is still haunted by the question of answering the question of immortality and this culture itself, and to write this if you like, in marble and stone. Now this to conclude since there is no stone, there therefore there is no has no civilization. It is he who will guide the explorer during the persuade the assembly to expand directly from Leopold II. aims to study and to implement in Africa. She wants to seize of trade in Congo. favorable to Portugal. in your speeches. you have taken Signed: your friend Leopold II. Gentlemen, the intervention of the total commercial freedom. Open sovereignty! we have a problem. at its mouth. into the Atlantic Ocean. for the lands south Its commercial influence The main market for is on the Congo, But the river is not because of a series We must find other ways steel, ivory and rubber. the Ogoue river. territory claimed by France. a much larger territory This territory corresponds the commercial basin Gentlemen, this is of The Congo is expected to bring in Thank you Mr Stanley. to the development of trade. Do would be reasonable to build a railway between Stanley Pool and the ocean? the French colonies, the of Congo, required a railway. if the cost of transport was the same as that in use, for an investment Stanley gives estimates on expected from a return on investment. He had and he did not really know the potential I therefore suspect him of having pulled these figures out and convince them of the importance of the it was supposed to be a free trade zone, Stanley represented the interests what was called &quot;the commercial basin&quot;. Gentlemen, the following boundaries: at latitude 1.25 degrees south, to longitude 13.30 degrees, along this meridian Then to the east, this line of Tanganika to the ocean, Gentlemen, the freer this great commercial space more quickly it will be subject of Christian civilization commerce. Stanley proposes, to avoid the rapids on the around the Ogoue, in Gabon. A a railway to the ocean. Africa, before being conquered, Sir Edward Malet, do not hesitate to the British crown react to this Mr. Stanley's ideas are indisputable. and the Portuguese colonies of Angola there is a coastline free that it constitutes the commercial coastline is in the interests of universal commerce! noble objectives of the development however sharing their implementation... knows both Gabon and accompanied Savorgnan de Brazza there in 1880. in Central Africa. His legend: without firing he won a territory as big as Let us remember King Makoko when he signed under the protection of France... important geographical clarification. the Ogoue cannot serve as an outlet for outlet may be the river itself! Congo must be identical, The Ogoue River as belonging to In 1881, I received recommending to dismiss sick officers. to go through the Ogoue to reach the ocean. the writings of Mr. de Brazza of the truth of my words. My dear friends, my dear friends, you But as a representative of the Kingdom It is not possible to fix, even with the limits of the Congo commercial basin. too many inaccuracies, too many unknowns... set the limits! I suggest that we resume our work. Total success. Portuguese and Germans with &quot;To Jules Ferry, president of the council. Germany and King Leopold II before the start Congo. They drew a map, I am sending it to you. the right bank of the Congo conquered by Brazza of our Gabonese possessions. of the International Association on the coast maximum number of access points inside the Congo. ' Signed Baron de Courcel. urgently report the following to Chancellor Bismarck: seen too big and that he will be incapable of -she signed a secret agreement will automatically return to France.&quot; Berlin conference is to try to get the England and to a lesser extent but solution. which Bismarck had already accepted. There, Berlin conference. This is the typical example, where we see him, opportunity and trying to occupy a position Gentlemen, dear friends, has a statement to make to you. the King of the Belgians requests the greatest to free trade. If its limit is it is not the same in the East, where we are Allow, allow, gentlemen, somewhat, from the object of the Conference. Quite the contrary! Freedom of allows us to discuss its access through The proposal of the United States government Mr. Stanley's proposal. up to 1deg geographical from the Indian Ocean. And then And from there, the Diplomats pay little attention to Africans. by the ludicrous proposal of a On behalf of the German Empire, I Allow me, gentlemen, to make a small consider the hypothesis of the eastward extension of the Mr. Kasson, I would like to point out to you that affects Portuguese possessions. In the west, on the other hand, the Portuguese government extending as far as the Ogoue River the lands between Gabon and Angola? French territory of Gabon includes I am specifically waiting for information on course - remain outside of this debate! administer Loango, for example? must admit that I do not know at this time Gentlemen, let us return if you wish I hope that this extension will be as the outline proposed by Mr. Kasson acceptable! of existing sovereignties! It is precisely in order not to harm them limit of 1deg to the west of the coast! of Portugal and the Sultan of Zanzibar The latter not being represented, we I suggest we don't set subject to existing sovereignties&quot;. are unconscious, they are unconscious and situation that is completely beyond their control. First of all, their civilizations, their ways of being, and that they considered at their level to that concerned Africans at that time. . concerns, interests and problems onto Africans. I invite you to listen to the technical advisor invited by the German delegation. Woermann trading company founded by my father. We several decades. We have 12 Hamburg. We only transport the fruits of say that we know Africa very well... only approach the subject from a commercial angle. is barter. All along the Congo, the It would be fairer, instead of to talk about the whole of Equatorial Africa. specific taxes on their coasts in Angola, detriment of the Portuguese administration! the Ogoue river, in Gabon, from the And it is the Congo which will recover it It is therefore in the interests of France territory offered to commercial freedom! taken into account that the civilized world will be able to riches Stanley has so well described. Gentlemen. earlier had convinced Bismarck to embark handful of merchants from few dozen whites in Africa. interested in Africa but he saw German interests on that continent. possible means and without causing organize the interests of traders and Bismarck gave in to pressure from traders that Germany should also have was that a great power should have The issue was not only Africa, but normal thing. It was not a The conference gradually takes on the appearance Diplomats, prisoners become clerks of History. Gentlemen, I would like to share with you some which, I hope, is in line with Baron de Courcel made concessions on was preparing to accept freedom France accepts the principle of including in the French possessions around However, it reserves the right of Mr de Courcel, I would like interests in the region of 5deg12! principle, commercial freedom between I would like to point out that part of the French Ambassador already belong, by virtue of Only a small part. to the north of the Massabe River. officially request that it extends to I don't know if my government will accept. to your government? I hope that before the end of our has been pushed back to Fernan-Vaz. I associate myself with the wishes of Sir Edward Malet. the Sultan of Zanzibar is a Sovereign who counts. the favors of the French in Egypt in We cannot build anything solid with the The English think that for years This is incorrect. What paralyzes France Germany's bad designs towards it. obtain satisfaction in all The idea that Germany wishes France harm It leads the English to abuse the But I wish to remain in good relations Concerning Franco-German relations, of resentment with that of interests. In the eyes we give a lot and we receive little! demonstrate an unwavering alliance As for France, I will continue to but I don't have much hope! of diplomacy: he wants to play bad tricks Once England has fallen out with France, International Association of Leopold II, its agents believe in the enormity of our pretensions! remains outside of our discussions. Alsace," I said to Hatzfeld, "but for your because then the French nation Behind the scenes, the president of the Association convince the countries present at the conference highlights the civilizing mission and the The vision that emerges is that there is no looking for raw materials, in Africa, and civilizing them. which is established with it, which is theorized by develop by themselves so they brings civilization, be careful not too quickly, so we are here for a long time&quot;, it is not at all joint, the interests of the Europeans are It's in Africa, and the interest of the natives is develop, to advance in civilization. a definitive outline of the territory offered for free Belgian delegate who is responsible for exposing it... delimited by the crests of the Nile to the north and Loge to the south. Westerners are offering themselves a territory in the heart of Africa chalk line among the peoples. The commission expresses the wish that the territory the Indian Ocean subject to respect for All nationalities will have access to the as well as all the waters of the Congo. free of entry and transit duties. to this definition? In the weeks that follow, the diplomats of the territory offered for free trade, the free passage of the telegraph and mail! they did at the end of the 19th century We are all human beings but some inferior need to be "grown up". The only educate them in the European model. denounce the problems caused by spirits was therefore a In the end, what did they decide? Nothing at Europeans from selling alcohol In the conference archives, the discussions Our Assembly should take up an objective Sovereign Leopold II: the future and the salvation Me who lived in Central America. I can strove to imprint on the Indians the seal of in alcohol and strong liquors! I observed the ravages wrought by alcohol on those taken from Central Africa... what my eyes have seen... The Negro does to drunkenness; he morally succumbs to it! Congo will be sober or they will be no more! from this vice, they will make him a monster who will devour the work of the Conference! ban the alcohol trade! Lambermont and his noble objective. the scope of the Conference! responsibility of local sovereignties. The Commission will have difficulty reaching agreement. further negotiations between the Powers No one is fooled: these It's true, the issue of Spirits replace any other form of trade! Finally, I fulfilled a duty rely on your wisdom as to the Gentlemen, moral considerations to prohibit the importation of whips, cangues slave owners use... the interest of this high assembly to Do you know that Sir Edward Malet proposes supplies negroes for the slave trade be prohibited"? your project. quote Mr. Stanley who says: &quot;In domestic institution. Slaves have been in the service The abolition of slavery is the great cause of the Sir Edward Malet's British proposal slave trade. Firstly the trade in negroes which is which supplies negroes for the slave trade. Trafficking is any particular legislation, etc., etc. only make sense if it Indeed, this is In this case, it takes on an Conference: let us refer it to our governments... and separate it from the Final Act of the Conference! United States: we are therefore particularly further: prohibit Your proposal poses serious be banned from a territory of the Republic. exercising his infamous profession in his territory! pursued. Let's have the Gentlemen, my proposal is the following: Powers to take turns monitoring Second, create a tribunal in Congo These two generous proposals from the 50,000 slaves are sold each year A paradox, because the Sultanate of Zanzibar most abolitionist country... Britain and Zanzibar were complicated. their influence to make the Sultan of not to export slaves. On the other hand, of the territory. For them the State of Zanzibar She controlled the region and ensured the maintenance We could call this hypocrisy on the Gentlemen, I suggest that you now listen to who will tell us about his plan to Mr. Balley... Gentlemen, I would like to submit to the assembly Article 1: the territories of the or as a transit route for the slave trade. all their means to put an end to this Mr Balley, thank you. I believe on behalf of our High Assembly that we the end of year celebrations approach, it in the name of the Emperor, Chancellor Bismarck A central issue generally associated the colonial project constantly colonists are stuck because, on the one hand, they and therefore they cannot reproduce slavery. free work and therefore they adopt an work which is not paid, which is not We would understand if we were slaves. And so it must be said, to build roads, we could have built these railways The problem is that we wanted to do We had to wait weeks for was on everyone's minds: that of the rules Without any real motive for conquest, the Their words bluntly reveal the limitless thirst the white man at the end of the 19th century... the essential points The Power which takes possession of a notify the other Powers, guarantee freedom of trade in these territories. government on these points! I propose to listen to the precise proposal &quot;1st point: the power which takes possession a notification to the other powers in order to 2nd point: the said power recognizes sufficient to enforce peace On these two points, comments from either of you? future occupations should be effective We cannot put too many principle of nominal occupations! For years, Germany and France have ": simple protection agreements. Declaration. But the effectiveness would be greater "the African coasts" the proposal targeted Let us first define the modalities of these their possible extensions. this time: Great Britain proposes to attach territories to which it relates... Any delimitation poses difficulties titles of the native chiefs with whom The adjective "summary" takes Finally, gentlemen, each state is free to power notifying new occupations. What could claims claimed territories was notified? of territories is necessary rough description! notification of territories "to the greater than inland... how far circumstances inevitably push The United States would like that the of their current possessions in order to avoid France is targeted, it stubbornly refuses to allow current possessions. The real reason: limits of the territories it claims. made to the Powers to this conference is Sir, I would also like to see of Negro slaves by whites. Penafiel that the purpose of the Declaration is formalities and not moral conditions! its place in the article already I recall that it was understood that a with a view to the accession of powers not present the International Association of Congo of course. obligations will not only relate to these rules to current possessions The rules established for future occupations will to extend them to their former possessions! would aim at the voluntary consent of the natives provoked any Acts of aggression. signatory powers will assess the conditions for The powers will have the leisure to ask recognizing an occupation as effective... new occupations on the coasts of the My government would particularly like remains outside of these provisions. of the Ottoman Empire, the affairs of Egypt would therefore concern the territories Gentlemen, all your observations, will take their place in the protocol. international diplomatic meetings, not everything appears the results of the secret negotiations. However, the Conference maps placed in Here, a red line cuts out the borders There, a G, for Germany, marks the future reserve the enclave of Walvis Bay. among all: Portugal, Spain, The future drawing of question this secret distribution of coasts... effective occupation. It's one thing to say theoretically: &quot;interland&quot; my hinterland&quot; but you have to This is when the scramble for Africa started running from one place to another to So it must be said that before Berlin the but it must be clarified immediately that little to do with the let's say modern idea a recent invention. On the one hand because impassable limit. The border was generally It was in fact a space of diversity dividing line. The main function of the border institution was All the countries, one after the other, Leopold II's project. He is the real winner of the triumphant look of Colonel Strauch, the president of Gentlemen, dear friends. I would like to share with you the International Congo Association &quot;The International Association of the Congo concluded treaties Conference recognizing its flag The deliberations of the eminent Assembly this happy result. consider the advent of a Power which gives itself the civilization and commerce to the center of Africa.&quot; the work to which His Majesty the I express the hope that the State of Congo, will provide a government for the vast country believed that the philanthropic enterprise of the We now see that he was right The American Government was the first to recognize to have been followed by the Powers of the old will participate in the Proceedings of the Conference! II making concessions to the French but by annex, in agreement with France, a map, not know , which Bismarck approved but I and so he enlarged, with the stroke of a pencil too, which means that Katanga current suddenly becomes state. The French only had eyes for attention to what was required to have knew much about that moment. Less than three months after the end of the conference, integrate it into his personal possessions. like the French Congo, will be famines and abuses due to the exploitation None of this was predictable His Serene Highness Prince First of all, I would like to express my prevented me from being involved in part of your work. Gentlemen, I believe I am responding to noting the adherence of the &quot;Our conference has reached the end complete agreement has been established on all the The resolutions taken ensure African Continent, freedom of movement You were keen to prevent the disputes the coasts of Africa could give rise. . 'Emperor and King, my August Master to Very good, we will then be Gentlemen. To the success of the