Film Courage: The question is, what stands dreams? It sounds simplistic...we can achieve subject. What do you think is actually the Dr. Ken Atchity: I've written a book called Dreams based on my own experience and that One of my favorite stories...I was on Dr. a couple of other people and one of them who just received his law degree from The University in line for registration four years earlier him said "Sir, are you sure you're in around and I said what line should I be in?" And I thought that is America. That's the you want to be in this country and he fearlessly law degree at the age of 86 or whatever he is fear and their friends inflict it on them. So one of the chapters in my book has to do associates because when I left the academic of friendly associates and I learned the difference a few friends but most everybody I did not absolutely crazy. They either thought that just extremely angry that I was leaving a They thought that was completely ungrateful about it and I knew them well enough to know do it but they wouldn't do it because they the reasons I didn't like tenure because anymore, you didn't have to do anything that's not going to stop you and there were they weren't unstoppable and they just stopped understand anything other than the merit system ideas. So I think what makes people afraid is the it's an image that I've had in the first I realized I wasn't going to get a paycheck You have that image if you were raised by the other image of wolves at the door. I remember it. Go to the door, open the door and if you are no wolves at the door. But it is an image the night as does the homeless image and many then you shouldn't be in the world of images. I mean that's what I do, I create images so how can I let images that are in my brain that. So I think people have to clearly understand If you truly are a friend and you love somebody and I always did that to my students. I always of accomplishing it. What if your dream is in the human race and you don't do anything about it. That's a sacrilege. You had the a reason. Either God put it there or it was why are you going to do something about it? and mother would be really upset." And so something that hasn't happened yet?" "Yes." possibility that this may never happen at It's a matter of knowing yourself. That's in the book. I was raised on Greek philosophy was "Know Thyself." That was the most Aristotle and Socrates taught and knowing by this dream if you don't do it. I mean I had a partner who said once when one of those dreams that should never have blasphemy! You say that now but later you to you other than your own voice because you of that." And simply fear is the number one impediment fear and everyone knows the acronyms about that may never happen (just like worry). And worries. But overcoming your fear is what you would like to be like do so why not do regret which is the big monster equal to fear on that proverbial front porch in your rocking a didn't do. To me that's a terrible waste Film Courage: Also, stripping away illusions. comfortable enough to know that if you have lost the illusion of some of the friendships be there with you, if for whatever reason that this is okay as well. Dr. Atchity: That's a very good point because you cannot govern your life by what other and I look out on the millions of lights in think that there are a few lights out there me but there are millions that have no idea kind of the cosmic view of life when you think massive cosmos that is going about its massive you to consult with it and for you to be worried about you is a complete waste of your energy dreams tell you to do and to do it with all what other people are saying and thinking are not spending any time thinking about you don't do. Most of them are thinking only and why should you be any different? If you And if you're the crazy painter that has everyone thinks you're a crackpot but then for a million dollars and now it's going always knew that gal was a genius. She really change instantly (which shows how much value That's why I think you've got to really else. And you can tell your true friends because your true friends and if the person who is in my career whose spouses did not support I'm sorry. I take this seriously. This is close to you is tell you don't do it, it's close to you who will encourage you. Because all of the monumental great things for it and who are not afraid in taking a few true friends or loved ones who tell them Many examples from my own life but when I was a junior at Columbia University and one year at Columbia. And I brought her up to we had a long talk about it off set. And she You have to do it. Don't worry about that." didn't end up being a problem but it was that's how I know who my true friends are. decide you want to do something. Listen carefully when people are telling you no they are expressing they are afraid that the things they fear to take the risk, don't let them influence unless they depend on you and then you have I did certain things when I left that career would not end up being left without resources happened and then once I did that my conscience with all of the risks that it entailed. And dark times and there are always ups and downs that is bereft of security. The other side of the coin is that as much an illusion because you can take as many chances me (even on the phone this morning) "You telling me we only get one shot). And I thought I get as many shots as I want to take." what is Hollywood? It's just a concept. all you have to do is tell somebody I've immediately. They don't care that it's You spend a a few seconds in chit chat and So you can take as many chances as you want that because it wants you to get depressed and take rejection seriously, etc. I just One of my essays is called The Waiting Room waiting for an answer on a creative project. You make another creative project, you get project has it's own clock, you can't be doing another project. And soon enough in various states of ripeness and they will problem will be what if two of them happen worry about that." You don't want to have So no, you don't wait at all and I think they wait you know they send off a manuscript that anymore but they send it off and then for an answer? That's a complete waste of else and that way when something comes from you deal with it immediately without wasting just...if it's a rejection...you just take you a deal then you consider the deal. But writers feel like they have to spend an it all, analyzing it, soul searching over it's fine to do some of it because you may you've gone through it and tortured yourself to do that all of the time, you can just go Ray Bradbury used to say that "Get back you're having." And I always thought that solution.