The vastness of the cosmos unfolded with no end in sight, a chilling void in which sound it appeared to have a weight. Outside of the window, there was a star like no other, a red giant, old and huge, undergoing its slow death. Looking at it refrained from any kind of excitement as an image of its beauty, a mystery perhaps tempting, yet even more dangerous. The writhing outer layer was like an old surge of dormant rage. which had reigned throughout the creation and destruction of an untold number of galaxies, active but still waiting for its time to dissolve into the void. The sensation came as I took the picture, and that sensation was one of excitement as it signified we were this close to something great. But it was more than just the science that captivated me. It was obvious that a wannabe warrior such as I was no match for it, and its mere presence was already capable of disarming the most bullheaded of beings. With the team assembled around me, orbit silently calculating computations, Zara eyeing me with her ever unwavering focus, I inhaled sharply that the time had come to venture closer toward the glowing behemoth. As though an answer, Zara's voice pierced the air, though quiet and full of wonder. I can't believe we're doing this. Can you feel it as well? That pull, I replied while still focusing on the star, It feels as though it is beckoning us. almost as if there is a significance to it, a last one that is meant for anyone who is brave or foolish to die for. I could not dismiss the question. What is it that a star knows? What memories are held captive by its radiance? Orbit's soft chime rang in my ear. Captain, to get any closer to the object, total shielding will be necessary. The star-bound gravitational forces at this stage of its decay are unpredictable. There was a brief moment of discomfort, but it was almost immediately suppressed by the urge to know more. The very reason that has drawn us out here, the joy of exploration that comes from venturing into something unfamiliar. I ordered orbit to turn on the azimuthal shields, already sensing the vibrations coming from the surfaces under our feet as the aircraft readied itself for the immense pressure. As we advanced further, nothing prepared us for the turn of events. The light emitted by the star appeared to change, becoming brighter and more colorful in ways I had only theorized, colors and phenomena, which we had studied theoretically, but not experienced. The colors shifted toward shorter wavelengths, making us shield our eyes from the glare that flooded the room. Reaching for the horizontal adjustments, I prepared the filters on our cameras to avoid damage from excess light. Darko, are we really doing this? Observe Zara. registering concern, but this time I sensed there was something different. Not for herself, of course, but for the risks this plan entailed. I hope so, I answered, but I knew it was a falsified answer and felt gnawing doubts too. How many people get this close for the sake of an argument? And if there's anything in this place, anything ancient, obscured in the light, perhaps it wants us to discover it. I let that hang in the air, but a more prevailing thought was brewing in my brain. If a star was able to remember, if there could be some sort of photographic power embedded into the rays of light of that star capturing information for millennia, what could we learn? What would we learn? We had only begun to scratch the surface of the concept, but the concept that a star could actively forget or more dangerously have forgotten parts of its being somewhere deep within itself, that pretty much terrified us. The pitch of the ship rose even more. as our advances met with an ever-increasing opposing force. Warning indicators began to play on orbit. The gravitational forces of the star, behaving uncontrollably, were nearly exceeding our stabilizers. Yet I still pushed us forward, beyond reason, on the off chance that we might discover something, anything that no one had. And then, all of a sudden, and with a sharp bend on the geometry of space that surrounded us, the scenery altered. The light emitted by the star when Askew, creating something lurking deep inside, and almost impossible to separate from that, almost as if a dying star wanted to craft something for us. It wasn't real, it was almost funny, yet it occupied space, tangible as the ship containing me. We found ourselves just staring, speechless, trying to comprehend what went around and came to be that could only be events of a star. the formation and destruction of planets, the evolution of galaxies, and more. The view of the star oscillated in front of us played as though it was trying its best to break out of the weak last rays of its origin. I stopped breathing not daring to turn my eyes away even though light burned me from inside. It was something a sense which was old and unexplainable made my heart race as though warning me that there was some knowledge at stake and we were standing at its edge. The initial silhouette became fully defined showing the embryonic stage of a nebula a mass of disorderly spherical clouds of gas and ions huddled together by the force of gravity. Orbit made a sound somewhere next to me but even he it seemed was enchanted probably struggling with the vision and all the data he was receiving. Zara muttered Are we witnessing the star's memories? It wasn't a confident tone and who could blame her? After all it was a crazy notionand almost a frightening one. Oceania did not have such a trait of remembering. They were not living things. Rather they were lifeless materials. Nevertheless we were right in the middle of such vivid and vivid scenes. They were almost as if coming out from the psyche of an extremely ancient being. With my eyes glued to the new picture I saw a change again shifting like a depiction of chronology planets forming colliding and random shapes generating and vanishing each spent only about a second before fading out. Some of the pictures were peaceful views of worlds under foreign stars with surfaces devoid of any life. Others were destroying in nature violent blasts that broke apart planets and hurled boulders into the void. It was an account of the mighty yet unemotional cosmos. a tale written in flames and weighed down by extreme gravitational forces. And then I saw something even more unusual a dark figure moving across the space like a specter but with an unsettling gentleness in its movements. It was slim with numerous sharp edges and a ship formation that I had never encountered before. It was designed in such a way that for a second it almost looked human But the very idea of looking humanoid in such gargantuan older being was preposterous. Did you just see that Darko? For the very first time courage seemed to leave her and give way to a panicky disbelief and all she could do was stare at the image. I shrugged as the image Content easily went through the dinosaur like the refractive index of a ghost. It was as if it were staring right back dead underscore. Several different scenarios flew through my head with increasing urgency and discomfort. This object did it possess a biological nature? How is this possible? Could it really be that this object was engineered by an advanced civilization that was capable of building such massive things in space? What does this power even imply? Orbit's voice came out soft as though in reply to my unvoiced queries breaking the long silence. Structuring scan in progress. Identification or source is not possible. Assumed object celestial matter or artifact of unknown origin. His logic was quite worrying as it should have had an opposite effect. Intergalactic space did not contain. Interstellar space science if there is such could not explain this. The shadow of something that was once here moved in the realm of the sun. The vessel jolted which snapped me out of my stupor. There were numerous alarm bells coming from the orbit's scanning system as the star's gravitational eddies altered yanking us in at a violent tempo. The star was undergoing a gravitational collapse its final phase about to unfold intent on annihilating everything in its vicinity in one last hellish exhalation. Darko we have to pull back Zara spoke managing to hold the edges of her console tightly. Hers was a measured tension in her voice. such that usually came out whenever they were in tight situations. Quite reluctantly I switched on the reverse thrust pushing the vessel out of the stealing daze that the light was triggering. The sensation of loss was intimate as if I were grasping something disposable. The final pictures appeared an animated fiery blue planet in the distance a carved shape on the barren space rock and then drowned in red. Enveloping them was a tale that would remain permanently untold A paradox that was more ancient than any civilization that existed. There came a quiet spell when the ship leveled off. Orbit adjusted the shields and the systems came back to their normal status. However I was far from normal. My brain was filled with one question after another each one more disturbing than the previous. Zara had interrupted my reflection simply but seriously. And what do you think that figure was? A relic? A vessel? I have no idea. I answered so quietly it was almost inaudible. But one thing is for sure it was ancient. Probably even more so than the stars surrounding it. Perhaps even older than the universe itself. I stopped and leaned on the glass gazing into the blackness through the viewport the weight of the cosmos crashing down on me. If indeed this presence managed to imprint into the memory of a star I could only wonder what it was like and what it had witnessed outside the realm of possibility. Perhaps it had lived through concerns that quest beyond our very understanding. It was a long time after that where we all sat in silence all of us thinking about something different somehow. The impossible the memories which existed outside time and logic were within our reach. I knew however As we left the pulsar that it was just the beginning we had just been tethered to a reality that was far older far bigger than anything we had ever imagined. As I found myself back in the cold, empty space of the ship, I could still sense the weight of that dark figure looming at the back of my mind, like some word I'm trying to recall. It felt strangely recognizable, though I couldn't quite tell why. Had we run into this entity, or whatever it was before perhaps? Or was it somewhere out there, gazing into the depths of space at us? Zara was drumming her fingers on her console impatiently. periodically looking at the readings as if there was some indication we had not quite missed. Orbit, she finally concluded breaking the silence. Analyzed the information we gathered. In particular, that object. I wanted size, energy patterns, anything that can help us recognize it. Processing, Orbit turned his head and said in his usual flatness. I turned towards Zara and saw that stiffening of her body. Even she looked anxious, which was quite surprising. It's funny, don't you think? I asked as I kept my eyes on the unending stars that could be seen outside of our viewport. We come out here seeking the truth and encouragement on the subject of the galaxies and never expect to meet with something like that. Makes one think that perhaps we are too ambitious. Zara shook her head with a half-smile on her lips. Darko, we have been beyond ourselves since the beginning of the voyage. That has never been an obstacle for us. Her look became gentler. And you know very well, if that figure was an object, it was most likely a relic. A relic that would prove that we are not the only ones here, that some or something inhabited these places long before us. A soft chime interrupted us. Orbit's analysis had been completed. By analyzing the available data, he stated, The object does seem to have some features that defy explanation in terms of both natural and artificial structures. The first scans reveal it to be extraterritorial and emitting energies beyond anything we can measure. Zara raised an eyebrow. So, it is a ghost ship with tech far superior to anything we've ever seen? Possibly, Orbit replied. If not, it is a more advanced ship than ours that belongs to a civilization older than our galaxy. My spine tingled. This was huge. It was one thing to have an object that was a mere shell of its former self. There were artifacts that humans created long ago, and perhaps this remnant was that of a dot people or race whose level of technology, and possibly even intelligence, was far more advanced than we'd ever encountered. And if they ever existed, who is to say they weren't existing and are even now staring at us? What if I voiced my brain busy working something out that forms a left-behind notice? A caution, Zara also nodded slowly and seemed to think. Or, it is something from the past, when beings could go into places that are beyond what we can even start to understand. Focusing on the stars that slowly moved away from me, doubt began to creep into my mind. If this object, this form, was a correspondence, what was it all about then? What kind of information was hidden in that dark, sharp-edged figure, and what or whom did it record? A notification blinked on the console, it was a trace signal, weak, but getting stronger. Zara and I looked at each other sharply. Our ship had detected the energy, overlap and trail of the object, which was very much like the one surrounding the artifact on board. Is it all?I do not think so. I am ready to go, but cautious at the same time, she replied. We follow, I said as gingerly as I could. Something tells me I cannot avert the women's inner warp. Whatever lay in the future was no issue anymore, for we had already stepped over the line. There was no escape. The engines roared into life, and we made a headlong plunge into the darkness in pursuit of the inconspicuous signal, the footprints of an age lost in time, that chased us as did the ghosts of absent civilizations, of which perhaps, of course, some had not even departed. As we navigated along the faint path, all sorts of sensors and screens inside the cockpit came to life with a surge of unreadable information. Orbit's voice was abuzz in the background, battling with the static. We are nearing the end of the trace. This one seems to be a nebula, he said, a tone of caution laced in his voice. I fiddled with the viewfinder, and as we got closer, I noticed the pale blue nebula spotted with gold and silver had been smeared like a cosmic paint. However, it looked rather strange. There were the amazing colors, but also looked distorted in waves inside the space. Like how glass would look when broken. Why is it fluctuating like that? I whispered to Sarah, suppressing the shaking in my voice. Sarah was busy and fixated on her console, perplexed as she scrolled the numbers. It's sort of a wall. She gazed at me, kin white, but determined. Darko, this is no ordinary nebula. There is something called radiated energy, which I have only come across in the literature, some very energetic particles and some spatial storms. If I had not, I would have concluded this as a border. A border? I asked, my mouth dry, yet my heart racing. A border where? Between what and what? She took her time to think, perhaps between the different forms of realities or different timelines. Orbit's voice was relaxed, yet proceeded with military authority. Trajectory adjusted. Prepare for entry. Entry? The term hardly seemed to be appropriate, but there was no room for retractions. As we made the very first step into the nebula, the atmosphere I breathed felt denser, almost viscous with some strange non-materiality. The cabin lights of the ship faded, and for a moment there was only the sound of turbulence. the roar of the engines, oozing rhythmically in and out, every pulse aligned with my own. Then we penetrated, and there, across the screen, was that ridiculous phenomenon I had never, ever envisaged coming across. Here we were, faced with an enormous structure located inside the modeled nebula, a long-abandoned edifice of debris and metals, made so long ago that it appeared to be part of the very fabric of the universe. It was as though the galaxy had nestled it in, swirls of gas and light tied around it, shielding and hiding it from the visible range. Still scanning, orbit breathed, full of awe. But there is no material of such type known. This structure is older than any known civilization. Hardly forming words, Zara uttered, Darko, this is some hive organism. Something that was not meant for touch, clenching my tone, I stared at the sights of the past concealed building. It does resonate within us. And as I was speaking, somehow, inaudibly, but in a deep and tremulous timbre, there was a sound emanating from the depth of the construction within the walls of our ship. This sound could be said to be musical, endowed with overtones that made me want to jump out of my skin, as if the place was, in other words, possessed with a spirit and not quite a flesh one. and certainly not one with a language. It was composed of snapshots of separate words. Orbit, I said quietly, almost to myself, unable to tear my gaze from the edifice. Is there any organic life present? A break, and then no organic life present, although there is an active energy signature at the center. A chill of realization passed through me. It's like something's still alive in there, of some sort. Zara's eyes crossed mine. The same question etched on her face. Do we go further? The answer was all that was needed. There was no going back. We had come this far. There was no way turning back. Not before peering into the enigma at the center of this tranquil, aged civilization. Okay, I said in a low voice. We're going in? As we neared the entrance to the structure, the lights from the ship penetrated the turbid waters. It was as if one was entering a great hall constructed for the use of giants, spacious, echoing, and filled with an inexhaustible antiquity. The gaping mouth of the dark tunnels engulfed our illumination and drew us further into the abyss. As we made our way further in, the very walls around us radiated light and revealed an array of atypical patterns, glyphs and symbols that were so close to lapidary, Almost meaning up to, but slipped in the sand in my brains. Zara, do you feel that? I was hardly a whisper. She looked up already off in a Daydream that probably did not belong to her and said with a distant gaze. We are watching this place the way it used to be. The illumination ahead intensified and the designs on the wall. moved and formed new shapes as if directing us towards something. And even though dread threatened my courage, I inhaled deeply, aware we had come to a limit that not many could even fathom crossing. Orbit, I said, driven by an uncontrollable pressure in my chest. Keep recording. This is not just history. This is the beginning of something. We took one last step into the unknown, and the chamber that awaited us glowed brightly, As if it was a portal to the universe dotted with countless stars within its confines. Upon our final entry, the room was abruptly filled with brightness, revealing a circular area, which I had never seen before in a structure. The surface was covered with writhing symbols, many of which were ancient and alive, azure patterning rippling almost in synchronization with us. I sensed the energy vibrating from the base of the boots. In the middle of the room, gently floating in the air, stood a perfect angel sphere. An object throughout casts clear reflections which seemed to go beyond reflection to embrace other forms from worlds unseen. So then from other places and other intervals of time. Involuntarily, I reached out towards the surface of the sphere, and to my surprise, it rippled with warmth, smushing me as if I were an old friend. Darko, came Zara's beautifully low voice, the pupils of her eyes rounded from astonishment and fear at the same time. This is not a mere artifact. One gets the impression that it is alive. So did I, focusing at the sphere, the images inside it, which seemed to be eternally changing, quite fascinated me. The sphere was a cosmic mirror where light came up, and there were traces of the past, or perhaps even something that was not yet in existence. Orbit's voice, usually so calm and controlled, was slightly shaky. By the way, the energy analysis has shown that the field they call a sphere functions due to quantum coupling. This sphere seems to be probing the depths of something very large, maybe a playback of reality, or even a databank of a mind. Orbit statement weighed heavily on me, an archive of the mind. This place, this object, may very well possess stories from peoples who lived many eons ago beyond our own time, a compilation of stories belonging to those whose essence was lost into the skies eons ago. I stretched out a hand, mildly lingering some inches from the sphere's surface. It became intense as I got to the sphere, the feeling almost like the warm rays of the sun melting the cold darkness of space. The warmth, however, was strange as if it had pieces of tips somewhere in its form. When I looked back over at Zara, she looked close to realizing that she would want to touch the sphere herself. I saw the same exhilaration in her eyes that civilization always recognized, the yearning for exploration that at times overstepped the borders of safety. I would not, I said in a whisper so soft it could have barely been heard. But Zara just shook her head, devoid of any detachment from the sphere. Darko, if we do not identify what this is, if we do not attempt to establish contact. She had to stop again, as if the allure of the sphere was so great that words were no longer necessary. And then quite as if it had decided so, the sphere began to shine brighter, perhaps because of our hesitation, or rather even the interest. A low tone traveled over us, deep in its quality, a resonating, throbbing sound that could be felt in the air and in bones. As it did, The picture in the sphere metamorphosed into a clearer picture with time. On the very surface of the Crystal Dome was a huge build of this city, most extraordinary development comprising towers, arches, and other structures, all still, and a starlit background that was decidedly not ours. What is this place? I asked under my breath. So quiet was Zara's voice that it sounded almost as if she was paying homage, a world that is no more. It remains imprinted here as a cherished relic for a moment, a glimmering city, and then a flickering one that was in the process of disintegration, as if swept with winds that did not touch the globe, but only animated the air around it. The cities decayed, and emptiness reigned as long shadows filled the streets. The brightness of the celestial bodies diminished. And for a short while, the dreadful quiet engulfed us. Then again the settlement melted before new visions formed. Men in tight formations, straightforward conflict waged under alien worlds, skyscrapers disintegrating by gadgets I could barely make sense of. And at last, there was a face, unclear but looking at us so intently that my hands prickled in a warning, Who? Or what left us here? I said, My voice revealing both fear and reverence. The orbit sensors were actively working, breaking down the signals from the sphere. Uncone. The material of the sphere is older than any of our records. Although it would seem that this particular dossier was assembled by a species whose civilization experienced a lot of regression after reaching certain technological levels. For some reason, Zara's features were somewhere between enraptured and terrified. Darko. Can you see? This is an imprint of the species that warned us. A warning, that realization felt like a heavy weight. This is not simply an artifact. It is also a communique about the threats that await civilizations like ours. Virtually, the sphere's luminescent core grew weak, as if fed up. Its heartbeat became leisurely as well, the pictures inside retreating back to blackness, but one such picture remained alive inside my head. A person standing against twilight of his world, as if daring us to recall, to understand. It was Zara who first broke the silence, her voice tinged with amazement and something much different, more complex, a palpable sense of awkward understanding. Darko, do you think they anticipated this, that they purposefully stocked this for someone like us? I could not respond, if only for the reason that words would not suffice. I only understood that this episode had transformed me in some manner, there being a strange and ominous heaviness that still clung to my spirit. In this place at this moment, I had witnessed a flaw in every living thing, a crack that had given birth to a hope which said maybe, just maybe, we could do better than those before us. Not a single word more, I went away from the sphere and gestured to orbit, record everything. This must not be allowed to disappear. Orbit complied, his sensors fading in reverence to the tranquility around us. And as we retraced our steps towards the exit in the remaining light, an uncanny emotion crept in, the sensation of us shredding a portion of ourselves, a history, trapped in the thoughts of the dead that was once ours. I remember this very moment when I was still seated on the Mama Africa and Nova tidying ship, as it had barely lifted off the ground. I let out few more sighs, taking in the view that became more and more distant, that of the distant face so full of promises about everything we have witnessed and most importantly, what is yet to come.