Welcome, I'm Dr. Denise Sandoval, co-curator Automotive Museum in Los Angeles. Lowrider Icons of the Street and Show&quot;. With folks about what is lowrider customization lowrider cars are known for like upholstery, A perfect example of a lowrider that we want to cover in this exhibit is Final Score. So a very important aspect of this exhibition lowrider cars and here we have Final Score built three years in a row, 2015 to 2017, which is like We look at this car and it has the important the hood, as well as engraving, so when we sort different graphics, candies, and pearls, and then of teach people about who the owner is, and a lot cars when they build them. You also see engraving often times even in the undercarriage, underneath so this car kind of has all the four aspects So when we think about lowrider cars, a lot Sometimes it's personal stories and it'll feature and often you see la Virgen de Guadalupe, the as I mentioned this car won 'Lowrider of the lowrider owners do a different transformation you have images of like a graveyard, with like a says &quot;Perfect Score&quot; and so typically, a car came of theme and with this car Final Score, the new important to sort of think about the images in and the builders, and the story that So 1937 Buick &quot;The Black Crow&quot; So we have one of the oldest lowriders lowrider car club in continued existence in LA, and what we have here is Fernando's car that he Duke's car club, it was a group of brothers go-karts. Their uncle Tinker taught them how to a specialty that they sort of honed in on, whether electrical work, and so the other side of on the lowrider scene that help set the standard the OGs, are often considered the Godfathers post World War II when there was a boom in car of times post World War II, there was a turnover young folks could afford these cars. So here we just low to the ground, you know.. nice paint the other part is thinking about how the style of You needed the low because we had the high with 1930s when young men were using their cars and hot rods are known for being raised off post World War II, took it the opposite direction. but like... what I always say &quot;you want people look at your car, they're looking at 1964 Chevy Impala &quot;Gypsy Rose&quot;. One of the most globe is the Gypsy Rose, which is really sort of Impala, was built in the 1970s and it really kind this exhibition. This car was a street car, not in the 1970s, but was also featured on Lowrider not only is it covered in over a hundred chandeliers, and I always like to say... it sort lowrider owners were using their car to not just and also using their cars as an emblem of &quot;I it's art&quot; and especially important for Chicanos rights during the Chicano movement. So the Gypsy it was on a TV show called 'Chico and the Man' and in the National Vehicle Registry of Historic that honor in 2017. If you notice lowrider cars, and that's really important to sort of build the second oldest lowrider car club in continued the owner of this car, was one of the founding also about lowriding as a culture is so sometimes you have two, three generations car clubs started in certain communities and so we sort of think about lowriding, and they talk about how lowriding is about it's about pride and respect, and so having your 1958 Chevy Impala &quot;Dead Presidents&quot; So Chevys in by lowriders and one of the questions to ask is a different answer but for a lot of years the for people to own and customize and they're the 63, 64, and today you'll see a lot of the cars from the 1930s and 1950s, to the Chevy that people are building, and taking to shows, and Chevy Impala. One aspect of lowrider customization for building award-winning lowriders and Albert De can see sort of all the intricate paint job, to the clear coat... But the other side as people learning these skills in the shops and this Jr. learned from his father, who's another 1963 Chevy Impala &quot;El Rey&quot; So we looked at the 1958 Chevy Impala from Albert De 1963 Chevy Impala award-winning Lowrider of I love it because of the color, it sort of reminds of... that we're featuring in this exhibit, from to the upholstery. El Rey, the inspiration, was 'El Rey' and so another aspect of the car's and our pride, and also again, representing the because often times, families work together El Rey is just sort of the pinnacle of.. yes, the one of the fun parts of this exhibit is being able which are also art, that are fantastically and when you come to the museum you're going to not only add shine, but El Rey is a perfect 1953 Chevy truck &quot;Codos 53&quot; As a Chicano Studies professor for over represents Chicanismo. What is Chicano. Chicano the label Chicano became a way to not just embody the word Chicano also has roots to our indigenous which is the original sort of name of the Aztecs, lowrider cars and their art also use indigenous past. So when sort of thinking about some of the artwork, we often see the Aztec calendar, images that's that connection for Chicano identity, our roots are also European from the Spanish interesting to see how the artwork on cars also often see is the skulls, and Mexican skulls skulls. The skull represents the connection more about the meaning of Mexican skulls through awakening, a time of celebration, and you often indigenous artwork. And so when you sort of look think about how lowrider owners also continue to connections, and use those messages to talk So I know there's so much to cover we're going to focus more on engraving, spread of lowrider customization to and even the spread of lowrider culture Thank you for watching, I'm Dr. Denise Sandoval, professor of Chicana and Chicano