This video has been sponsored by Nord VPN. Right well as one month free, which you can get by going remember looking through dirt, and finding little every time, I would get really excited thinking shut down, and told that it was worthless fool's answer, and I threw away what I had found, without was that despite it being way less valuable than The mineral name for fool's gold is pyrite or iron It's chemical formula is pretty simple just FeS2, ways that it can crystallize. The appearance that environment that it was formed in. Some important time, pressure and temperature. For example to form these oddly perfect looking cubes, which and distribution can also vary quite a bit, and The base unit cell that builds the pyrite the macroscopic crystal that formed, was cubic as that I mentioned earlier, can alter how these final appearance. So depending on where you are in in that place, it can look quite different. For I did want to mention that it is possible, for the can instead be something called orthorhombic, and called marcasite. This one's a lot more brittle any case, now that we know a bit about what fool's its physical and chemical properties. So to start really similar to metal, and color wise, it can be in the same area as gold, so it's not surprising difference though, is that gold is never found and it's usually just found as an amorphous chunk gold is really soft and malleable, whereas pyrite something like a hammer, the pirate would shatter flattened. Also in terms of its density it's only is about 19.3. With small quantities it might be the pyrite, the weight difference is pretty relatively easy to tell a difference, and it's bits. For example here, in a clip that I found on this was only because the really shiny pyrite and making it hard to tell its color. Once he of the pyrite became quite evident, but the color was based on the fact like I mentioned before, of gold. Just by gently swishing around the but the lighter pyrite is moved around. From its would think that it's conductive and, well they're as a proper metal though, and it's classified materials are used pretty extensively in the that pyrite might have some use there as well. things that are electronic, is in non-rechargeable one of the electrodes is the lithium itself and on a thin layer of aluminum. Okay so now for the and learn more about its chemical properties. It cube so instead, I bought a bunch of ugly ones much it cost, but it was quite cheap, and probably the first test, I just put a small amount of pieces. I let it sit there for a few minutes, There should have been a reaction going on, but I FeS2, but I thought that it might react faster pretty easily by just heating the pyrite to its 540degC. To do this, I just carefully shot it with turning black. Some pieces of pyrite also started When it cooled down, I added the HCL but it was there. Like last time, I left almost all of the blackness had disappeared. which you can see on the paper towel. So the major the black FeS that I made, and the hydrochloric as well as hydrogen sulfide gas. The amount that wasn't really possible to see any gas coming off. I decided to try heating the pyrite more, and to it looked decent and the whole surface was turning shoot off. I'm not 100% sure what caused this, but of the FeS. In order for it to break down to FES, happens on the surface of it because the sulfur SO2. However if this happens in the cube, there's that it starts building up pressure, and it extent there's also probably some water mixed into continued heating the large piece that remained but eventually it stopped. I'm not exactly sure that it was somehow able to release some of the it had become red-hot, and then I let it cool got oxidized by oxygen in the air to make what I to room temperature, I thought that it was pretty fool's gold at all anymore. There was absolutely black and red. Like I just said, I think the if the black stuff was FES, or Fe(ii)O. I tried acid to the surface of it, and it kind of just when I tried this with the intact pyrite, the acid it got a lot more porous. I broke it apart was that it was possible to see all the different oxidized stuff, but then right underneath it was the still fully intact FeS2. I really thought that didn't. Onto this I tried adding the hydrochloric possible to see a small amount of bubbling, but to be. To get it to react vigorously, I would need I first had to crush it up. This really isn't actually quite brittle. So I just added some of what I had after a few minutes, and I probably this was good enough. This was all added to a test Then just like all the other times I blasted it was that I hoped without any oxygen present, the immediately converted to SO2. After only heating could see that there was a gas being released was hard to see, but there was also a white it didn't occur for me to test it, but it was bit of water vapor. What I think is cool, is that to this, to generate elemental sulfur. Depending or can also be converted to SO2 for to make sulfuric acid. When I felt like most of and I let it cool. I probably should have because as it cooled, the surface was oxidized most of it was still black, but then I mix things, I apparently had the same issue as before, where and the stuff in the center, was more or less made more than enough, so I continued on with I dumped it all onto a dish, and it honestly small sample of it, and I placed it onto another This time the reaction was way more vigorous, is extremely potent, and even in small quantities for it, is technically just to try and smell which apparently worked quite well, because I smell it would be to bend over and to get really H2S is also super toxic around the same level trying to take a breath of it. The much smarter made pretty easily by soaking paper in a solution I was in fact making H2S, then the lead acetate to make black PbS. And when I did this, that was mostly as a demo, but in general it is a useful same way, where a strong acid is reacted with FeS. it's usually either purchased, or made directly, extremely exothermic reaction, and this is a clip to this channel. The videos that I made back then in checking it out, there's a link in the pyrite might not be as nearly as valuable as own unique properties and uses, that it more than price is actually a good thing, because it means For example, I think the large cube sample that but it only cost me something around $100. In which is not only not very much, but also nothing this was the first video that I did on a mineral to do this again with another mineral, so in the ended up getting really behind schedule editing from the airport, on my way to Japan for vacation. public airport Wi-Fi, which isn't really secure, services like Nord VPN exist, which allow me to sent, and received by my computer. This way, I can my credit card, without worrying about getting my there are a whole bunch of other benefits of and malware blocker, and it also anonymizes track or spy on your activity. What I especially that works on all mobile devices, as well as click one button, and it's done automatically. and you can choose from one of their over 5,000 said, I've been using Nord VPN for about a year they're offering a great deal, that gives you extra free month. You can get this by going to the description. As a side note, some of you might to Japan, and not when I get there. My answer to want to be working on videos once I get there, having a 14 hour plane ride between Minnesota be interesting, to buy Wi-Fi and to answer your out to all my supporters on Patreon. Everyone who before I post them to YouTube. Also everyone support me with five dollars or more, you'll