I'm running out of time, pretty bad. And they have told me that I should not arrive there at night. Let's see... The law of probability indicates that the more you play the lottery, the more likely it is that you will win. My mother! That awful! I had been betting since I entered Mexico and that day on a border highway between Jalisco and Zacatecas... The road is scary, huh! ...It would touch me. The problem is that I can't go as fast as I would like because the bike revs too much. In the previous episode I discovered that an oil leak caused my clutch plates to burn, so the bet would be even more serious. I can't do what I sometimes do to beat the clock. Today I have to go at the speed that the motorcycle gives. Super Supernova rules. As luck also dictates. Well, when you play this type of lottery, you can win or you can lose. I've done two kilometers and look. Oh Lord! Will we arrive or will we not arrive? -I am nervous! --I am more nervous that my engine will break down in the middle of the road. I already have burned discs! Hey, a pleasure, huh! Thank you very much for the help, brother! You'll see in the episodes how the motorcycle arrives, if it arrives. --Yes, I'll be watching. What I do know is that adventure awaits us today. Wow, he's waiting for us! I first go in a straight line to a small town called Ruiz and from there I have five hours and a bit until I reach a Wixarika town inside the Sierra. Since I left I had the feeling that something was going to go wrong. And life sends you signs, but we don't always want to see them. This is the town of El Venado and here begin the mountains that I have to start crossing until I reach the Wixarika mountain range. There's a part of my head that keeps wondering if I'm doing the right thing. Because my hope is to get to Chihuahua with the bike like this. Do you listen to her? It revolutionizes immediately. I'm going to replenish the oil but there is a big chance that the bike will leave me stranded. I have foreseen this situation in the following way: If I am stranded, I have the number of a tow truck. The issue is having coverage to warn. I have the satellite phone in extreme cases, but hey, it's something that could happen, I'm counting on it. The second setback: I arrived at sunset. A little after sunset. Why do I insist so much on this? Because it is the main rule in Mexico: Do not shoot at night. And I have been told that in that area especially not to shoot at night. Because they are going to stop me and I don't want that scare. I mean, I don't want to die of fear. In this area of Mexico the trend is to be entrusted twice, for the human factor and for the motorcycling factor. I hope it turns out well! Five hours for 200 kilometers, I imagine that much of it will be dirt and it seems that much of it will have a lot of traffic. -See you later! What a party your friend is having there! Look, it's called Malpaso stream. It is a bad step, the truth is. --See you later, boss! What good people truck drivers are, they live on a different wavelength. That lady was wearing Wixarika clothing. She comes, I go. May God take us confessed! It is rightly called Malpaso, if part of the road has fallen into the stream. Everywhere, look... Wow! Oh! My mother! There are some obstacles along the way. The road is very beautiful. If it didn't have 4,554 holes... If it weren't for that slight detail that can make you go out of a curve because your wheel gets stuck in the hole when you're lying down a little... Thank goodness Super Supernova helps me not go fast, if everything happens for a reason. This route is much safer to do with burned clutch discs. Much better! It would have been much better to turn around, because I soon suspected that the abandonment of the road in conjunction with the lack of traffic were symptoms that I was entering a very dangerous area. I believe that from Chiapas, I did not take such a desolate route. If I were unlucky enough to be stranded because of what is happening to the bike, I would have a serious problem. Oh, Super Supernova! If you knew how many kilometers you had left until you reached Chihuahua... You're going to have to endure it in agony. Well, 1164 kilometers with the clutch about to click make the law of probability work against you. Because there is something I haven't told you, Super Supernova, and that is that we are not going to go in a straight line. However, in the absence of bread, cakes are good. I don't know if you see it but this is very nice. Holes, all you want. What do you want to keep? With the state of the road or with the incredible views there? At least if I'm stuck, I know what views I won't miss. Good! How beautiful! This area that I am visiting is the natural border between Nayarit and Jalisco. In fact, that highway passed through a quadruple border: Nayarit to the west, Jalisco to the south, Durango to the north and Zacatecas to the east. Therefore, the chances of the road being disputed were very high. This is the typical site that although the drone flies in a thousand ways, no image captures what it really is. Sometimes it happens, so all I can do is convey to you what my eyes see, which is very beautiful. And just as my eyes are seeing the beauty, it gives me the feeling that every 200 meters there is a hawk. I do not know why. Hawks in Mexico are people who work for a criminal group, monitoring certain specific areas with the aim of informing their superiors about the deployment of authorities, the presence of opposing cells and atypical movements in the assigned region. A large motorcycle with cameras everywhere definitely falls under the description of atypical movement. They look at me a lot and very often. Maybe it's because of the noise the motorcycle makes. I do not rule. Dog, don't get involved, don't get involved. How beautiful! This is very virgin. Very, very virgin! So virgin that there are collapses that are not fixed. Look at the Lord! It's just... what a picture! What a picture! -See you later! Ah, if he is not a gentleman! He's a young man! See you later! In these types of places you never know who is who, so just in case, it is better to say hello to try to show that you are doing well. May there continue to be places like this! So virgin! The cannon I have seen with the drone is this one. This town is Jesus Maria. It's like the big town along the way on this route but... Oh! What has gotten me in here! But it is completely desolate. I mean, it's inhospitable. But that doesn't make it any less interesting. And according to the map I have two and a half hours left for 86 kilometers, so I imagine that the dirt road must be close by. The truth is that Jesus Maria is authentic, huh. Look, there are fruits there. Let's go buy something. -Hello! How are you? Do they sell fruit here? Yeah? Let's go buy fruit. -Hello! Good afternoon! -Good afternoon! -How are you? --Is San Andres Cohamiata very far away? That day I didn't quite understand what the lady told me because she didn't speak Spanish well , but today listening to her again, perhaps what she was trying to express to me was that she didn't recommend that I go where I was going. The truth is that there are a number of picturesque images like this here that I don't know exactly what it is. I think we are in the Wixarika zone now. What beautiful images! One of the gifts of coming to rarely visited areas. Well, this is the most developed point I'll be at in a while. Jesus Maria, because looking at the map... Oh my God, where am I going to get into? Well inside the mountains. But the Wixarika contacts I have are there. So here I go! The Wixarika or Wixaritari are an ethnic group from Mexico known not only for their clothing and colorful art, but also for being the guardians of the Pellote, which is intrinsically linked to their worldview and shamanic practice. Of all the native peoples of America, this is one of the ones I most wanted to know, which is why I was taking the risk of getting there. The other day someone told me that the Marakames of the Huichol or Wixarika nation, many develop cataracts in their eyes due to the Christ energy they handle while singing while looking at the fire. Fire is so creative and destructive, in that perfect symbiosis between life and death, that it does seem coherent to me that it opens certain channels of knowledge. I'm really looking forward to getting to the place I'm going! My mother! My goodness, how outrageous! How is this! The road is scary, huh. It's scary! It's scary to see it, to imagine rolling in it. Thank goodness that in these years one of the things I have practiced is talking with fears. There are times when fears take a human form, and there, on that road, I was about to talk to them face to face. I never got to San Andres Cohamiata, I stayed 50 kilometers away and the reason I didn't get there was because I found the cartel. Or rather they found me because they had been warned 25 minutes before that a motorcycle with cameras had passed by. I panicked, I realized that it was neither the police, nor the army, nor any authority of the Mexican Republic, but that it was the cartel, they were the bad guys, as they call them. I always thought about how I would react in a situation like this and the truth is that you stay paralyzed, you move forward, you listen, you obey, you get off the motorcycle and start answering questions. They asked me where I came from. With my nerves I forgot. I wanted to say the word Tepic but it didn't come out, I began to hesitate, to doubt. I said Vallarta first, but that had been days ago. Well, they were very intense at first, because they thought I was recording, so they started checking me camera by camera. I explained to them that I am dedicated to recording adventure trips, that I am a YouTuber who creates content, that I have been traveling from Chile, and that they could check it out on the internet. That I wasn't doing anything strange that could interfere with what he did, and that if he couldn't go that way, I would immediately turn around. They had warned me in Guerrero and Michoacan that even if nothing happens to you and they let you go, the shock you get will stay in your body for a few days. And the truth is that it is a situation in which one wonders if it ends there, if it stays there. The worst moment was when the commander radioed his superior who was not there and asked him what he had to do with me. And for a few moments I thought that a very bad message could come through that radio for me. And luckily, the message that came in was: &quot;And let him continue.&quot; However, I did not continue. They told me: &quot;You were lucky to meet us because there is another group up there. Have they not told you that this is a war? That this road is disputed?&quot; &quot;After 20 kilometers they will stop you again if you continue,&quot; they told me. And those above are not going to have as much mercy as us, they are going to kill you and rob you, they are going to take absolutely everything from you and no one is going to know where you are. And I was thinking: &quot;I had asked the Wixarika if the road was safe and they told me yes, as long as it was daylight it was safe.&quot; There were two problems, one was that I had cameras on the motorcycle, and if someone had told me in Jesus Maria that it couldn't be done, I wouldn't have done it, I would have removed them and that's it. And on the other hand, it turns out that I was not going during the day, according to what they understand as day. The maximum time to leave Jesus Maria is considered two or three in the afternoon and I was leaving Jesus Maria at five. I was going to arrive with a little light still in San Andres Cohamiata but that was already considered night and a strange time to travel. So, the confluence of those two factors made them come out and they came out specifically for me, as I said before, to investigate who I was and why I was there and why I had cameras. One of the things that surprised me the most was that all of them, six out of seven, except the adult, were all children. They were teenagers from fourteen to sixteen years old. They were very little and they joked among themselves, they had a jovial tone, it seemed that having a gun was a game, that they were in a kind of simulation of what war is. While all that was happening, I wondered if they were aware of the high probability that in some confrontation with the other group, well, their existence would end prematurely. I imagine that the circumstances of poverty, scarcity, lack of opportunity, are causes that criminal groups feed on. And speaking of a criminal group, I told the commander at one point when I relaxed, I said: &quot;I knew that at some point this could happen to me but I didn't know when.&quot; And he says to me: &quot;What? Encounter a criminal group?&quot; And I say: &quot;Well, yes... Meet you, those who run this.&quot; Luckily, it seems that one of the guys recognized me and said to me: &quot;I think I've seen you on the internet, didn't this happen to you on this site?&quot; And I: &quot;Oh, yes, please tell them.&quot; &quot;Tell them that I dedicate myself to this, that I am not involved in anything strange, that I dedicate myself to making content about indigenous communities and adventure motorcycles.&quot; After about fifteen or twenty minutes held there, they let me go, and they let me go anywhere, that is, I could continue the route or I could return the way I had come. But of course, since they told me that those above were going to be less kind to me, I say, &quot;No, no, I'm going back, I'm sure I'll go back.&quot; That night I didn't sleep at all because I was so nervous. With any noise I would wake up, I was distressed, with anxiety. Aware of what could have happened to me, right? And at midnight I start to hear screaming... I look out the window of the hotel where I was staying and suddenly I see people with torches running and screaming. I panicked again, I didn't know what was happening, I didn't understand, it was a normal Tuesday and I thought that the indigenous people, for some reason, I had offended them and they were coming to me to punish me. In situations like this, you become a little paranoid and think that everything that happens around you is against you. Luckily, I asked in there, &quot;Hey, what's up?&quot; &quot;I see people running with torches.&quot; And they told me that it was a syncretistic celebration of the half-indigenous, half-Catholic people who celebrated like Ash Wednesday or something like that and were called &quot;Las Panchitas.&quot; The next morning after having slept poorly, barely two hours, I suddenly began to hear screams in the next room, like someone crying, shouting &quot;let me go, don't touch me, don't touch me, don't touch me.&quot; And like blows when someone falls to the ground. I put my ear next to the wall and realize that a woman is being beaten. And I said: &quot;God, how much intensity in such a short time, what am I doing here? Do I get involved, do I intervene? Then can they take it with me? What do I do?&quot; And I called the owner of the hostel so that she is the one to call. After convincing her to go and knock on the door, he knocks and says: &quot;If you have your problems, please go solve them somewhere else, not here.&quot; And a man's voice is heard saying: &quot;Yes, yes.&quot; Yes, we're leaving here.&quot; Then the woman told me that the woman who was inside came out with a sweatshirt over her head so that they wouldn't see what they had done to her, but that her face was beaten, blood , bruises... Then, it was time to leave and luckily I met some people on the street who were staying in the same hotel as me, they invited me to breakfast, I told them what had happened to me , they explained to me a little bit about the reality of the area, and they told me: &quot;You can go back the way you came without a problem, but if where you are going is to Chihuahua, go along the highway to Durango, through Guazamota.&quot; But I had seen it on the map and it scared me very much. But they insisted that nothing was going to happen to me there, that that road was not in dispute and that I could travel there without problem. Yes, the road is very lonely, they told me. &quot;If your motorcycle breaks down due to the problem you have, you are going to have a complicated situation. It is difficult for someone to get you out of there because that area is very desolate and very isolated and practically not traveled at all.&quot; So, well, I looked at the map again and said: The bad thing has already happened to me once, it will be bad if it happens to me twice and I decided to play my cards and choose to go that way. The reflection on what happened to me? It's similar to when I had a big scare on the motorcycle when I fell down the ravine, when that happened to Simon and me in La Guajira, when I was stuck on that route in Guatemala... Well, a reminder that we are step and that you can leave at any time. The accident I had in San Cristobal... Your whole body suddenly knows, every molecule, every cell of your being, that the end is imminent, that it may be yes and it may not. You experience great adrenaline, there are moments of euphoria, of depression, you are sad, you are happy, you don't know how to feel because it could have happened to you but it hasn't, so, am I happy or am I sinking? What I do? There is like an emotional confusion. One of the reasons why we travel or at least I travel is because it is to learn about the realities of the world, and unfortunately Mexico is a reality practically throughout the country. You can find it, you can't find it, you may want to see it, you may want to blindfold yourself, but the reality is that this happens in Mexico and it happens in almost the entire territory. Sometimes more hidden, sometimes more obvious, but it is there, it is there. Well, observe there how things can go wrong so generally, as when there is a situation of weakness in the structures of the state, more lack of opportunity and resources, more opportunity to have money, a car, women, drugs, social status ... Well, that feeds on people who, if it is not through that route, it is very difficult for them to access a change of life and it expands, they acquire power and end up taking over an entire country. Honestly, the immediate feelings were: &quot;I want to leave Mexico, I already want to leave here, I don't want to be dealing with the possibility of it happening again, of stopping again, of turning out worse.&quot; how it turned out, that the result is different and good, I have reflected on it, I have meditated on it, and I believe that I cannot judge the entire country for one bad experience when I have had so many other such good ones. When I have met people who have contributed to me, that has made me grow, that has nourished me, that has injected happiness and joy into my being, a country that has true wonders, Mexico is impressive, everything it has and in my opinion, it has much more light than shadow. That when it's shaded, you want to go to the sun. And you think... &quot;In California there is good sun.&quot; What if I go to the United States now and call it a day? But it seems to me that that is the decision. coward and my heart feels that I still have some way to go here. So, I have decided to continue what I am missing. I don't want to throw in the towel, I don't want to give up and I'm sure that in many ways I'll end up being glad that I stuck it out, that I persisted and that I held on to the good and not just focused on the bad. What can I say? Realities of the world, real realities. And as Aurelio told me the other day: --Be careful, very careful. Careful. We continue the journey! Let's see what happens! See you later!