The fusion of politics, news, and entertainment such as Jimmy Kimmel, Stephen Colbert, Seth as attack dogs for the Democratic Party, which has old Republican Party against Donald Trump and his these comics feed the smug, self-righteousness moral and intellectual superiority. These comics Comedy Central, TBS, ABC, CBS, NBC, and even CNN, host shows on the news network, have little to as loathed and ignored by Trump supporters as they the corporations and advertisers that employ them. the right of the rulers to rule, or the terrible They traffic almost exclusively in the bizarre, the stupid, and the inane reports. They perpetuate the fiction that we folly of permanent war from the Middle East to that have de-industrialized the nation and They attack critics of the system even John Oliver, for example, devoted a show to Jill Stein. Bill Maher made public his $1 million comics traffic in a self-defeating cynicism that of power. Power only laughs at its own jokes and Joining me to discuss the transformation of comedy one that has largely become a megaphone for power Lenny Bruce, Richard Pryor, Mort Sahl, Bill contemporaries, including Jimmy Dore, is not real enemies. So censorship of comics is not new, acerbic comics with heavy financial support to go back and talk in the preceding decades where Well, first of all, thanks for having me, Chris. those people you mentioned in that intro, they out, and then I slowly got to the bottom of you're right that censorship is not new. was essentially driven to his death. I mean, he get onto towards the end of his life, simply for going against the government, making fun chased. They'd threatened his venues with taking So this isn't new, but I think it's almost more group of gatekeepers back when there were three TV You can now have all this information and it's so on YouTube and things. But if you get far enough not going to be accepted into those mainstream get pushed out of the way. Those who are still the people on these late night shows, they have not going to really question them in a large scale but they're not going to get at the heart Talk about Bill Hicks. You were the was brilliant, but he's an example of that. has grown. He was known but not really famous He was pretty well known in Britain then, even grown because he was saying things about our held true for the second one. &quot;How do we know they were his lines. Those were the type of things Letterman did not air famously, even though he things that were so important and he went after how it manipulates message. And he did it in a way laughter. It wasn't like he was losing everybody And so his legend has really grown and he now We should talk about Carlin because he appears have held fast to that kind of ability Yeah. He had an incredibly interesting career We talked about the gatekeepers a moment ago. things, the deeper things, you had to first allowable on the Ed Sullivan Show and stuff are a few examples, they got... and Lenny nice family style comedy that they would allow And then they started to question things for the system. Lenny Bruce was already hugely the system then realized Lenny Bruce was a risk Carlin, his big change was he realized he wasn't this clean comedy, and he had a very dramatic everything, started using curse words on stage, lucrative gigs. And for a few years was barely around, all of a sudden he got respected for being restrictions and became hugely famous kind of going after the endless war state or the American it was the cursing that was challenging and Supreme Court case as to whether his curse But eventually, and I don't hear a lot of was allowed to do this was because HBO was a There wasn't really subscription-based television comedy specials where he wasn't accountable to he was George Carlin. He did like 10 specials and swing for the fences and do whatever he wanted some of these brilliant and scathing, scathing &quot;Oh, we're really good at bombing brown people.&quot; never heard. The reason he was allowed to and B, because he was on a subscription rather however is still not going to have people that It seems that comics, because they have laid off of serious critique of the Democratic I'm talking about the mainstream. They've ineffectual. I think back to, there's a wonderful who finds himself in the Dachau concentration owners from Berlin who savaged the Nazis in the weren't going after the ineffectual aristocratic fallout from the Great Depression or had abolished of... And because they were essentially they didn't have any kind of real political kind of an apt analogy for what's happening here. Colbert, et cetera, and say, &quot;What do you mean? even...&quot; I haven't watched them recently. &quot;They making fun of Biden and Trump equally, which but either way, they're making fun of these he fell down. It's never the system writ large, war. So as long as you have people thinking, &quot;Oh, we're doing this edgy thing,&quot; while never the critiques that could actually change You go back to the Greeks, comedy was [inaudible 00:11:41] and these were... and they In Greek drama, comedy had an extremely were both on RT. You had a great show on RT and in your mind what great comedy should do. I think is the end goal. If they can sit up there corps dinners and laugh with you, then clearly hitting at the things that power is afraid will radical comedy that is seeking to create even don't get it from the most of the famous comedians And there's two reasons for that. One is haven't educated themselves... They haven't themselves enough to get to that point that they they understand how that television system for long if you are making those critiques. I a mainstream network and still my show and your Well, let's be clear, all of the shows Yeah. For me, over 2000 videos, just basically a And unfortunately, not that I enjoy that means that our critiques were effective Let's talk about some of the things that can't be said in the mainstream. because people think you're on RT, you're told I was never told what to say. I wrote all my own people all have teams of writers. I did not. I Now that being said, I could go after things things such as Israel being in apartheid how often do you hear criticisms of big ag, largest environmental destroyers on this planet. whether it was Cargill or Monsanto or Nestle. And but go after them in a real deep and real way. other networks, which this is a single page in Show that summed it all up for me and it has finished the Daily Show, they put out a book, all of the interviews and everything showing how I found it very fascinating, but one page they who was in charge of if the show wanted to make umbrella of one of the corporate sponsors, this that company and try to convince them it's cool on the Daily Show. The clear implication was if So imagine the level of corporations that are every entity. If they don't want to be made fun be. Well, then the Daily Show can't critique half &quot;We are a show criticizing how America works, and we can't critique half of the system.&quot; Yeah. Yeah. Whether it's a good or bad thing? I have a bit of a nuanced view on this. I think in that people are perhaps, I'd say too easily decide that this person should never be allowed has gone overboard, absolutely. However, I- I think an example would be if... you have to will hear that a joke uses the word gay or uses terrible. He is making fun...&quot; Well, but did the think you have to take the entire joke and its don't do that. They just hear a word and they say, that's taking it too far. However, I also right-wingers, but a lot of comedians in general got offended. And it's like, no, people also have to you is offensive and you storm out of the show, and you were offended. Now saying, &quot;I need to is a step too far, generally speaking. pendulum often swings back and forth in American common on American stages, and now it's rightfully I think that by actually going too far, by because they said a joke that you didn't like, I conversations can't be had. You open up a space offend. And so I don't know, I have a nuanced view What about Dave Chappelle because Yeah. A couple of points on this. One, people makes $100 million a year or whatever it is, canceled. You could make an argument that I've your podcast and your TV show all at once, Dave someone's been canceled, it's crap. Now, do I pretty lame. But if people like it, then okay, My bigger issue, honestly, and this doesn't mean peoples in this world that, I think, Dave about, of all the people that have... of all the could be fighting over, the 6 million people those type of things. Really, you're upset that mind blowing that that is your issue. And not straight specials. It's like clearly, you have So what happens? I mean, does what are people like you doing? my stuff out there, I do continue to do my live can so that they can't be deleted, or at least one But yeah, I mean it's a tricky time and it's a comedy. I do hope that it continues and people I think that goes on. People understand they stop saying those things. And that perhaps deleting of channels because that... yes, it much. What happens probably more often across all because they're, &quot;Oh, you can't question that. talk about this or that.&quot; So they just stopped So you have this irony where you have In some regards, yeah. and this came out in the Twitter files, it they... both right wing, left wing critics, if you're targeted, which is why you were may have a multiplicity of platforms, but Yeah. You can spend a long time, many finding your fans for comedy or finding readers, like you're playing whack-a-mole trying to... or But yeah, I don't know any other way to do it. throw their hands up and say, &quot;I'm going to do capable of that, I spent the first five years offensive to the empire. But nowadays, I can't any other way. To me, the road I want to be not where I just get the laugh. Yes, I want these incredibly important issues and I can't see And yet there are pretty powerful financial were on Air America and were overtly political themselves of any political commentary at all. political comedy that will get you censored and it goes for... it's interesting how there are many journalists who maybe started and backed off. And now you go, &quot;Whatever happened that I really respected and now they seem And it's, I think, a lot of them get up to that And if I go there, then the money starts to shut lot more fun over here with all the money bags.&quot; are there consistent themes? Does it retreat... retreat primarily into the personal? Do you Yeah, I'd say a lot of it And I'd say for those who claim to have it's usually just a few Trump jokes or things like As a comedian... so I lived in New York and three shows a night, and you see what gets laughs you booked on these late night shows. You see your &quot;Oh, that guy got selected for late night, that about how we're killing children overseas, that So you see the path, and I think some comedians Well, you have examples. Randy Credico would be a Well, and Randy Credico, one of his many claims list, but- Are you on there too? Congrats. But going back to the '80s, one of his and told some jokes they didn't like and they say lose gigs because he was challenging the American So yeah, Credico's an interesting example. How important is comedy to the sustenance Maybe I'm biased, but I think very important, wonderful comedy that is not critiquing anything. I have loved, like Steven Wright and Mitch Hedberg nothing about... and so it's not that I edgy comedy that makes people think. But that realm or think that you do that at all, lighthearted Trump jokes that changes nothing. to take a stance on these issues, then do it. sides. Yes, you should have the comedy, the It's important. People want to laugh. They that's all very important. But you also need then you are in a form of an authoritarian society there's a good argument to be made that the ruling empire crumbles, as things become more tenuous. in East Germany. I mean making jokes would see you get in jail, even to a friend. Same in a... oh, and the Nazis as well. I mean, Right. Right. or the demonized, but not of power. was similar with art where- ... if the paintings were clearly And books. a problem. But if it was abstract, then- boomed under the Nazis, but it was all Right. Right. on the mainstream, which are largely anti-Trump, The attacks on the mainstream- hammering of Trump and his supporters. I I mean, it's quite possible. I know that... So his followers think- &quot; ... I'm with the rebel.&quot; anyway that are giving these people platforms. comedy, but in so many areas, it makes Liberals We're fighting against the bad guy.&quot; Meanwhile, Trump.&quot; Meanwhile, he's locked up more Black and Yeah, yeah. actually make Liberals think they're doing When in fact they're only exacerbating the serious comics who are strong supporters of Trump? what the kids are doing these days. But yeah, no, I think that most of the right-wingers I knew in right-wing off-stage. So they'd hide it on stage off if you got too right-wing, but it was clear were off-stage. So they also knew which way to go Great. I want to thank The Real News Network Adam Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara.