The American Cordillera stretches from the most Coast and over the Central American Isthmus but one region here quite literally sticks opposes the hot and arid deserts of the the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. flatness, the peninsular is so holding fascinating lessons about nature and a all living beings on the planet. In this unique environment of the Yucatan Peninsula have pieced together an important piece of Exploring Mexico with a bit of distance and having country is actually a lot more mountainous than and Oriental are covering nearly the entire except for this peculiar outcrop. The Yucatan is its virtually the only flat land next to the the tip of a platform that lies mostly submerged This region has once constituted the seafloor as the remnants of this former marine ecosystem now The flat tableland is covered in a thick layer of compressed corals and mussels that sank to the is a quite soluble material when in contact with when rainwater mixes with carbon dioxide either organic material, the slightly increased PH limestone given enough time, creating openings in and sinkholes across the peninsula. it also becomes apparent why there are no rivers in the world. Instead of carving beds on the peninsula is dissolving its way through the network of streams, which are only noticeable When looking for surface waters, there are which are typically the result of waterproof but 30-kilometer-long lake has no in- or outflow the interplay between rainfall and evaporation. the lake is part of the border between Yucatan's forest covering the north, while the Yucatan and These names can be a bit misleading though since The dry and the moist forests both receive around comes from climate seasonality and different the longer dry periods and subsequently more a thinner and more permeable soil layer only while the moist forests in the south are a bit wet and dry seasons, and a thicker soil layer, The coast around the moist forest is characterized into the white sandy beaches for which Yucatan is arrive annually. Most of these are international and while traveling is a beautiful thing, not can have some uncomfortable side effects as well. vulnerable to people with malicious intent, exploring, your favorite show may be geo-blocked sponsor Surfshark comes to the aid, which is a to places all over the world. This allows you making them think you are still in your home watch the News from my country since they would be deals on flights and other online shopping, just all these benefits plus a dozen more tools surfshark.deals/factspark which now also gives you is a 30-day money-back guarantee, so there is no for more info and give Surfshark a try. millions of tourists enjoy the many sights, it has the inner land also attracts millions of tourists Especially in the north, the density of these out far enough, a peculiar pattern emerges which most violent periods. The neat circular pattern the search for petroleum in the Caribbean Sea. The field, radiating out of a center point lying During the same time in the 1970's and 80's, iridium concentrations in a geological layer which the dinosaurs. Iridium is one of the rarest of it got pulled into Earth's core during the in extraterrestrial objects like asteroids. types that require unimaginable pressure and heat shores of Yucatan, the puzzle pieces were slowly published the Alvarez Hypothesis. a roughly 15-kilometer-wide asteroid at speeds of 20 kilometers per second, pulverizing and leaving behind an impact crater measuring This impact crater is what can be seen in looked at earlier and the impact marked and with that, also the end of the almost 200 Cenozoic era in which we are currently living. eradicated all life near the Atlantic shores, the of 10.3 on the Richter scale, and the pulverized atmosphere, throwing Earth into a decades-long growth and leading to an ecological collabs It is estimated that 75% of all species that have in the years following the impact, among them all with a body weight above 25 kg or 50 pounds. city Chicxulub which lies near the center, actually deliberately chose this hard-to-spell NASA and the rest of the scientific community, Since the turn of the era, the asteroid hasn't Yucatan peninsula. The warm waters of the Gulf in front of the shore and prevailing wind devastating cyclones onto the land. In the major hurricane events have crossed paths with The northeastern tip of Yucatan is especially ecosystem regularly gets flattened by storms. on the biodiversity in the short term, they also and evolutionary trajectories of ecosystems over diversity of species found across Yucatan. countries club, joining 16 other nations fauna. Particularly in the categories of reptile and in 2002 they even founded their own Countries", that also takes the wealth of nature and biodiversity into account. threatened by extensive cattle farming all over but the tourism boom of the last 50 years, to accommodate all of these people has also The fact that the resort town of Cancun is on the American continent was not an accident carefully calculated plan by the Mexican computer model was created, which carefully insect populations, available labor force, storm to mathematically evaluate the best location resort city. The product of this campaign was the of almost a million people to accommodate the infrastructure projects like the almost 1000 which according to many environmental the already fragile ecosystems Yucatan. the still strongly present Mayan population, living on the peninsula, are at threat of time however it makes this cultural heritage and the boost in tourism can possibly help I hope you enjoyed this overview of one peninsulas in the world. If you want to see more regions of our planet, be sure to subscribe. video. Keep your data secure and access streaming Factspark. Check my link in the description to they offer a 30-day money-back guarantee. to the south, I can recommend this video or watch what YouTube thinks is best for