Hello friends! Today we have a recipe for magical, fairy-tale fly agaric cookies. In the 19th century, the fly agaric was a symbol of good luck, wealth and prosperity! Therefore, fly agaric was often depicted on New Year's cards. And we will bake these beautiful mushrooms! And let there be comfort, luck and love in your home! Place softened butter in a bowl, add sugar, salt and vanillin. Mix everything at medium speed until smooth. Now I add one small egg and sour cream. All products should be at room temperature. Add some flour, baking powder and mix. Please write what country are you from? Please like it, I will be very pleased! Thank you! I add the rest of the flour gradually and knead the dough. Subscribe to my channel, please! The dough turns out very soft, pleasant and does not stick to your hands. Now we will measure out pieces of dough for the caps and legs of fly agaric mushrooms. First I take a smaller piece, about 14-15 grams. This will be the stem of the mushroom. Then I take a little more dough, about 27-30 grams. This will be the mushroom cap. I roll each piece into balls. I am often asked if it is possible to do without scales. Of course you can. But you need to keep in mind that pieces of different sizes will require different baking times. Now I form a fly agaric leg from a small ball of dough. I make it elongated and thin. We form a mushroom cap from a large ball. I roll it a little in my hands and see which side has the fewest cracks and creases. And then I give the ball this shape. The shape is somewhat reminiscent of a truffle or cone candy. Try to make the workpiece higher. Because during baking it will settle a little and you will get just the characteristic shape for a fly agaric cap. And here is the leg of the mushroom. More elongated and elongated than that of boletus. I cover the preparations and put them in the refrigerator for 40 minutes. After cooling, place the mushroom stems on a baking sheet and bake in a well-heated oven at 200degC for about 10 minutes. The hats are still in the refrigerator at this time. I take out the fly agaric legs and let them cool completely. Do not overcook the mushroom stems in the oven so that they do not turn yellow or turn golden. Now place the mushroom caps on a completely cooled baking sheet and bake in a well-heated oven at 200degC for about 10-15 minutes. We do not wait for the mushroom caps to cool completely. While they are still warm, make a hole with a knife and cut out the middle for the mushroom stem. Pieces of dough from mushroom caps will be useful for decorating the mushrooms. Mushroom preparations can be made in advance and stored in a cool place for up to 3-5 days. And now we will prepare everything for creating fly agarics. For the white dots on top of the red cap, I will use peeled almonds. The nuts need to be chopped quite finely with a knife. To clean the almonds, I pour boiling water over them for about half a minute, then drain the water and pour boiling water over them again. I leave it for half a minute and then drain the water. I peel off the skin and dry it. These are the small pieces you should get. Sift excess dust using a sieve. but don't throw it away, we'll need it too. We leave only pieces of nuts. To glue and cover the mushrooms we will need white chocolate. Chocolate must be of good quality. I break the chocolate into small pieces and melt it in a water bath or in the microwave. Melt the chocolate carefully, do not overheat so that it does not curdle. I usually melt the chocolate 50%, then remove from heat and stir constantly. From the main warm mass and the temperature of the dishes, all the pieces will also melt. The result should be a homogeneous mass like this. Let's start assembling the mushrooms. Pour chocolate into the recess and insert the mushroom stem tightly. If you want there to be a so-called ring on the leg, pour more chocolate, then a characteristic skirt will form. Friends, share your recipes in the comments for the New Year and Christmas. I put the mushrooms in the refrigerator for 15-20 minutes. Let's prepare the grass for the mushroom stem. I put some spinach in the chopper, add some crumbled caps, nuts and some poppy seeds. I grind at high speed for just a few seconds. This is the kind of grass we got. It can be dried and stored in a closed container for a long time. Pour about 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil into the remaining chocolate and mix. If the chocolate mass has thickened, you can warm it up slightly. Now we will decorate the mushrooms. I dip the leg first into the melted chocolate and then into the grass. We can also use poppy seeds for decoration. The mushrooms go back into the refrigerator for 15-20 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the glaze to cover the mushroom caps. To color the chocolate I will use red dye. I add the dye in small portions, mix well and achieve the desired color. In the end, for this color I spent about one teaspoon of dye. Now I dip the cap of the chilled mushroom into the glaze. Immediately sprinkle the mushroom cap with chopped nuts. The result is such a handsome guy. We place the mushrooms in a bowl, hanging them with one side of the mushroom cap. In this form, put the mushrooms in the refrigerator so that the chocolate hardens well. These fly agaric mushrooms are like something out of a fairy tale! They are magical! It was a shame to even eat them! Everyone who saw and tried them was simply delighted! Besides the fact that they are very beautiful, mushrooms are also very tasty! Be sure to prepare these delicious cookies for the New Year holidays! It's perfect for cookie gift boxes! Friends, I sincerely congratulate you on the upcoming New Year! I wish you successful baking and see you in new videos!