Be careful, hurry up, stop the big one . Brother Erhu can't open Bayi. Come on, I'll try to hold it. It's going to be dangerous for you to shoot . There are no traces of fine sand on the Bayi rails. The mechanism behind the door is not activated. Kan Yigong Kun Er Gong The three palaces , the four palaces, and the fourth palace are nine palaces and eight trigrams , but where are the locks? The seals are Guansha, Wenchang, Xunshui, Wuqu, advance, the three lives are connected, and the three works are thousands of layers of locks. I can't stand it any longer. Gawa Luoning, come here and help me. What's going on in August 1st? Make the nine palaces and eight trigrams overlap , the three fates will be communicated, the three agencies must open the cross cover at the same time, hold on to me, three steps of Yang walking, three steps of Yin walking, two, three circles clockwise, two circles counterclockwise , looking for the dragon. Watch the winding mountain. One layer of winding is the first layer of false . The side of the dragon flash is injured by the wind. The real dragon crosses the gorge and occupies the center. Gawa Luoning rushes in. Erhu brother withdraws , crosses the cover, withdraws quickly . You guys withdraw, I cover. Eighty -one, hurry up. Hu Bayi, hurry up. Eighty-one , come in quickly. Eighty-one, interrupt the door. The mechanism , hurry up, eighty-one, run, hurry up , eighty-one , hurry up, come here , what is this thing ? Old Hu , it can't be the Overlord Butterfly again, right? It's the guardian beast of the Jingjue Kingdom. The guardian beast of the Jingjue Kingdom turns out to be a rare species. The basilisk was smelted by evil magic and sealed in a mechanism. It is nourished by black snakes and survives to this day. Second uncle , see if that one is coming for us. It didn't look at us . Don't say anything. Second uncle, what are you doing to me ? Shoot me . Don't open here. Don't worry about the gun. My marksmanship is perfect. Fatty , let's go . Don't chase me. I'm too fat and don't taste good. Here Shirley, run around the pillar and walk quickly. Hit the snake and hit it with a seven-inch hook. It has a seven-inch spine and its lower body can no longer exert its strength. Old Hu is standing there in a daze. What are you doing fast? Come and help, come and help Old Hu , use a hundred hooks to move the mountain, and make a series of formations. Old Hu , we can't be called a hero in the Palace of Hell. We close our eyes and wait to die. Hungry ghosts, livestock slaves , giant-eyed people, patron saints . The layout of these sixteen stone pillars coincides with the number and penetration of the giant gate. The arrangement of the sixteen dragons on the earth is the same. Jiazi Zhengzhi starts from Ren, the beginning, Ren is the innate position, Kun, Kun is the earth, the snake is erratic, suddenly north and south , only one of the sixteen ones passes through the earth veins, which is the real dragon armor, Chen , Xinchou, Ding Wei, Gengwu. Yi Mao Geng Wu Geng Wu is the real dragon. Fatty , hurry up. I 'll help you . Turn the sign of the patron saint to the east . The disk is moving . There is an exit . Come on , go in. Come on, dance , old man, go on . Jade pendant, I'm sorry, everyone. I'm going to leave. Don't move around anymore, professor, professor, this old Hu, old Hu, run , run, run, look at what you're doing, hurry up . How did I know there's such a big movement? Comrade Fatty Wang , Fatty Old Hu, where are you going? Hu Bayi There's a road this way and there. Walk fast. Second uncle, second uncle, please don't pull me. Second uncle, you see we are really enemies. Why are your lives so hard? Come on, second uncle. Wait. I'm Shirley. Uncle Chen. Shirley pull me up . Pull us up. Miss Yang , let's go. The second uncle, the second uncle, the Yuanxingqian position, Chigen, Li, the middle, and the third house position all have punishments and restraints to solve the hexagram, southwest, sit in death, go to life , go that way, Hu Bayi, what should you do? Do you still remember the four elephants and tigers lock? The four elephants and tigers Lock Feng Shui has twenty-four directions and twenty-eight constellations in the sky. The entire Jingjue Kingdom is based on Luo Shu and the layout of the stone array changes according to the five elements and twenty-four directions . After the start of the stone array, the space is rearranged and the new layout corresponds to the movement directions of the twenty-eight constellations. The Brick Secret Path turns out to be the Heavenly Brick Secret Path of the Ghost Cave Man. If you want to break the formation , you must unlock the keyhole. But where are the keyholes in the south and in the east ? According to the direction of the movement of the stars, step on it and follow me closely . The stone pillar will touch the mechanism below according to the weight. You ca n't go wrong in one step . The southeast Xun palace position, the northeast Gen palace position, the due south Wenqu position. Did you step on the wrong position? The last northwest dry gold position, we are up now. The keyhole of the ghost dormitory you stepped on is right in front. The ghost host has a lot of scary stories. It is the most dangerous night in the Tianzhuan Secret Road. The most dangerous night. What does it mean ? I have gone too far . Believe it or not, I um, it's too late to jump . Jump quickly, Queen (Essence) Jueyu) is back (Jing Jueyu) There is an intruder (Jing Jueyu) Guard (Jing Jueyu) Old Hu's big rice dumplings are not big enough for this black donkey's hooves. We didn't rob the tomb and we didn't want to break into the tomb with anything . (Jing Jueyu) Die (Jing Jueyu) There must be a trap up there , fat man. Take me up to see Lao Hu boldly (Jing Jueyu) The trial fell into the imaginary space (Jing Jueyu) A lot of money, a lot of money, all mine, Lao Hu . We can eat hotpot mutton every day. The fat man has so much money and a lot of mutton. Another plate of mutton , fat man , wake up. I asked you to cut the mutton. Why are you cutting me ? Why is there grass on the grave ? Why is it completely different from when I first came in? Miss Yang , fat man, save people . Fat man, Miss Yang , Miss Yang, why is this thing so powerful? Hu Bayi , I'm going to be exhausted. You two, stop being so boring, okay? Uncle Chen , Old Hu , Old Hu , what's that jumping on the grave ? It's interfering with us . My father's notes mentioned that this is a legend. The devil's flower that can create illusions with its smell and color, classmates, you see, from the moment we entered the mausoleum, all we saw were the illusions it created. It was it that attracted us here. We found it. We found it in the nine-story demon building. We have hallucinations. This thing has tortured you for so many years. Look at me and shoot it to pieces. Old Hu , this demon flower has some evil nature , so shovel it up by the roots. Touch Captain Jin, if we live together , we will die . I am a Hu Bayi flower stamen . It's its heart, Old Hu , I saw a lot of mutton-boiled meat again. Eight-one , eight-one , eight- one, eight-one , come back and save us . Eight-one , do n't abandon us. I have never abandoned you. No, eight-one.