This is Lisanne. What are you going to teach us today? How to make a self portrait like Rembrandt did. Let's check what we have here. I think this is exactly what we need. Fantastic. Now I'm going to apply the undermodeling. I'm going to do that with burnt sienna.. burnt amber.. raw amber.. and the slightest hint of black. Apply a little bit of water. Let's try it! Always look at your example. You see right here is a little bit more light. So we leave that a little open. You want this to help later on, don't we? What I like for the face.. is to now draw the main features. Okay, I'm going to draw the most important outlines. Here you go, this is his collar. Middle piece of his neck. I wish I could look in the mirror and see a Rembrandt. On lighter parts to the darker parts actually. A little bit cooler tone. On the right it's cooler. Especially the right of this painting is slightly cooler It's like there a shadow.. but a different one from the one on the left. See, here it's little darker. It starts under his nostril and onto his chin. We're just going to follow that. It's darker here, darker. It's Darker here. Here it's really darker. For the darkest part I'm going to mix.. burned amber.. with raw amber.. and just a hint of black. So I think this is enough for us to.. continue with the background. The background is a combination between black.. yellow.. and zinc white. But this is not quite the color yet.. I need just a slight hint of this color. Which absolutely is no color Rembrandt could have used. Thick brush. So from dark to light and then back. Take a close look at his brush strokes. Here they go, Here they go up, Here they go up, Around his face he seems to have some kind of halo. It's Clearly lighter. And you let the background shine through in some places. That's exactly what you need. So I make the background slightly lighter.. to make a good transition from this part to the other part And now here on the left he does something really nice. He seems to alternate brush strokes like this. And then on top of it and then he seems to almost push. The tip of his brush into the layer of wet paint. And he creates a kind of structure. Slightly lighter. Even using a bit of platinum white. For the opaque color. And he goes this way. The tip of his brush. Now you see this is lighter than this part. So now you take this part to match it. You see this part here needs to match this color. Yeah, what Rembrandt actually did over here.. is that he leaves a small part open over here. And even though that small part is part of the composition.. and is super important for the lights. And how he renders light and how you experience Here he has neat brush strokes. They go this way, then they go this way. And also that direction, you'll see.. makes a lot of difference in how you experience the painting. So that's what you, I hope, get as a take-home message. So, the right of the garment.. has a little bit cool, dark color. So I'm going to take my umber, which is green-ish. Going to take my black, which is blue-ish. If you take a good look at this painting.. you see that the left part of his clothes.. already has vivid brush strokes.. like we saw on the background. And when we're here. Rembrandt uses the background as a mid tone.. ..to make a transition from black to the highlight. And how he does that, I think, is by building it up. So here he starts making little stairs, as I call them. Just ever so subtle, make another stair. What we're doing now, is we're adding the highlight. We use white, zinc white. Titanium white combination because it needs to be opaque. Not to opaque though. Little bit of ocre. We're taking a hint of this black. Yep, let me see. A brush stroke this way. So that's the start of the highlight. This part, brush strokes this way. They accentuate the stair. So, the stairs are important. Then actually the gray part. Then you put a highlight on top. Now we're going on to the color. We're starting with umber, again in the shadow so that's here. Again, make sure your previous layer is dry Now we're going to work our way back One.. two.. Three.. And then we go on. Now I'm going to make a smoother transition. You see that there is a little line over here. And there are some openings over here. These openings could be either the tip of his brush.. or the back of his pencil. I'm going for the last one because I like that most. A little downstairs. And down. Then here he continues this line. We're making this slightly lighter. Making this slightly lighter. So paint has a texture if it's really thin, I think that's what he used. You see a little of this. Yeah, next step: the hat. If you want to mix a skin color there is three colors you need exactly.. that's red, ocre, white. and I like to add a slight touch of raw umber. Lots of white. Here we go. Ocre.. And then I like to add a little of this red. This might already too much. If you want it darker you can just add more ocre. Or add more red. Right to left I'm going to build up the neckline. So now I'm using raw umber, burned umber and black. And I'm trying to leave part of the shadow open. You're playing with your colors. You're building it up. It's too dark. Then we're going to the lightest color. I'm going to use this yellow color for that. I'm just adding a slight hint of red. So here his lines go this way. This is going to do a little bit like this. Because you want the background to shine through. Let's continue to his face. I'm going to build his skin color up.. from light to dark and then from dark to light. And then I'm going to do the mid tones. So he goes this way, he goes this way. He goes that way. So if you're trying to do this with me So here is one streak down. Then here it's a little darker. I know there's a little more ocre there. Then there is light again. There gets little more reddish, Here it also have a little bit of this color. To the darker parts. Now I'm going back from the dark to the light. To his face here. So we take a little bit of black. Take a little bit of white, zinc white. Building it up, just like that. A little blush. Small parts you'll leave open. Then with burned sienna I'll like to make a transition. Again we need a skin color. And we're working up towards this burned sienna color again. Better. Then, were going onto his chin. And there is no such thing as lines so we make the ideal transition. Then the right part of his face Here he leaves it a little bit open So for the nose I'm going to make a slight purple-ish hue. Lake reds. Going to black. And lake reds, the black serves as blue. If we go to the eye. Yeah you don't know which way he actually looks, We tend to think, that the eye is white. Actually that's not true. As you might very well know, I'm not sure. The color of the eyeball is actually gray, So I'm going to use a little bit of the gray I've already prepared. And I'm mixing it with the brown color. Here we go. Then the gray color. Taunting to use a hint of black even. Now he begins to look like it. This is little contrasting to the rest of his face. So we're going to darken it up. Going to take a broader brush. To continue with the hair, I like to build up the color from dark to light. Going to make a very cool color, Don't be afraid to use the brush and the hair of your brush. And here. A little light. Already black. Then a slightly cooler color with raw umber. It already has a slight hint of burnt umber. Then we are going to use the burned sienna. Leaves some parts open from the background. Burned sienna alone. A small highlight. I'm using burnt sienna with regular sienna right now. So now we're after the fun part! Which was actually very inventive of Rembrandt. We're going to use this part, the back of the brush. And if we look at the painting itself.. there are three strings of curls hanging down. So that's suggested by scratches that are That scratch. So it start here. Approximately till here. That string so to say. And the second one here is ending right here. And of course, the harder you push the more comes off. And here is the last one. Then we're going to slightly little scratches here. So that's here, here. Going up here. Then here there's more happening. So. Look at the painting again. Down here there's two more. Frizzy hair that's standing up. And on the left he has painted the hair. So I'm going to take a smaller brush. Going to take a little bit of this Little bit more black over here. -That looks pretty good lisanne! -Yup! -Wow, thanks for another lesson Lisanne!