Summer 1943. After two years of war, And has suffered a devastating Now the Germans have gathered their Which will decide the outcome of the war. At first, the Soviets called it "the elephant" But soon they learned They'd captured one near Leningrad, and brought it to a tank The results were alarming. to a Soviet T-34, Only heavy howitzers But that was on a firing range. At a gloomy meeting Marshall of Artillery "We have no guns able to successfully It was April 1943. Along the entire front, the Red Army prepared to meet In both the previous summers, the Wehrmacht's blitzkkrieg Now these new German Would the Red Army once more be swept Soviet engineers worked frantically Few would be ready in time. Meanwhile, the Stavka made plans to meet All eyes were drawn to the city of Kursk. Here the Red Army's Central Front occupied It was an obvious place to attack. The Soviet General Staff expected from north and south, to cut off To meet this threat, the Red Army within the salient. The Stavka planned attacking these defences, before launching Soviet intelligence was soon able On 12th April 1943, Stalin was handed secret It was the codename for the Wehrmacht's The information came His real identity remains a mystery, but the German Armed Forces High Command. His reports were sent to Moscow who headed the Lucy Spy Ring The plans for Operation what the Stavka had already guessed. The Germans planned to &quot;pinch out&quot; with two simultaneous attacks. They would be made by von Kluge's and by Manstein's Army At the beginning of May, the Stavka "According to our intelligence, the enemy the Belgorod-Oboyan line, In May, Hitler held a planning the early phases of Operation Citadel. Field Marshal von Kluge, commanding Army General Model, meanwhile, It was his Ninth Army that was to assault Model pointed to the signs of heavy Soviet Walter Model would earn the nickname, because later in the war, to try and salvage desperate situations. renowned for his loyalty when his army group was encircled he shot himself rather than face surrender. Model was one of whose opinion the Fuehrer respected. Model was known as a genius of defence. But he and his 9th Army had less experience Some thought that Model was trying allowing him to fight a defensive Guderian was another who expressed As Inspector-General of Armoured Troops, he knew that the panzer divisions were For him, the whole thing was The war had already taken a massive toll it would allow them to retain But if it failed, it would be disastrous. The Fuehrer agreed to postpone "There can be no failure". The delay would allow the Germans to deploy These included the heavy Tiger tanks, and the massive Ferdinand tank destroyers. The Luftwaffe was also receiving such as a fighter-bomber New variants of the Junkers 87 dive bomber They fired tungsten-core ammunition against and proved to be highly effective. Squadrons of new Henschel were also arriving in the Kursk area. The HS-129 was also But the delay also gave the Red Army Three heavily fortified lines trenches, and gun emplacements. But the lack of effective antitank guns The Red Army hoped that new defensive Previously anti-tank guns had been But combat experience proved Antitank strongpoints became the foundation Each strongpoint contained up to 20 The guns were well entrenched The distance between neighbouring If German tanks tried to pass they would expose their weaker It took many week of backbreaking labour to build the strongpoints Mikhail Badigin, "We had to dig out to bed in a 45 millimetre antitank gun. We did more digging than most people The Red Army dug 4,200 km of trenches If they'd been dug in a straight line, The Central Front had dug another 2,000 km of roads were built, 686 bridges, and 300,000 wagon-loads were delivered to the Kursk salient. The Kursk salient was now in the history of warfare. Launched against it from and 1,500 tanks of Army Group South. They faced the Voronezh Front with 626,000 men and 1,700 tanks. In the north the attack would be conducted with 332,000 men and 1,000 tanks. Facing them, the Soviet Central Front with 712,000 men and 1,800 tanks. In addition, more Soviet troops named the Steppe Front, Rokossovsky's situation in the north He knew the German tank assault along a 90 kilometre gap in the forests. Vatutin's troops, however, There was nothing to restrict the enemy's General Nikolai Vatutin was considered one His peasant origins and Communist fervour He was a theoretician, German generals nicknamed Vatutin would not survive the war. He was killed in an ambush General Vatutin's Voronezh Front was about to face one of the most Vatutin, by nature an attacker, the greatest defensive battle of all time. As the Red Army prepared for battle, A dense minefield was laid The second and third lines Instead, they were assigned mobile engineer Their task was to lay in the very path of advancing enemy tanks. A German General wrote, "The speed at which they could lay The Russians planted more than 30,000 mine Meanwhile Red Army recruits were being They were sent into trenches and run over They called it &quot;ironing&quot;. They were also trained to throw antitank And in the evening they read pamphlets on The Red Army scoured its artillery units The best became anti-tank gunners, They trained hard, until they and score a bull's eye on the gun. Batteries of powerful 85mm anti-aircraft with orders only to engage enemy tanks. Four regiments were armed with German The Red Army Air Force also They had been attacking But it was difficult to score a direct The new bomblets weighed only 1.5 kg, but could penetrate up to Since tanks have much this was easily enough 48 bomblets were packed into one container. A Sturmovik ground attack aircraft It was enough to devastate an entire tank As the wait for the German some Soviet commanders Vatutin repeatedly urged "We must seize the moment." he said, Autumn is coming and all Let us stop digging But the response was always the same. Wait. Meanwhile, a German map was recovered which as spotted by their air reconnaissance. This time they paid more attention For the third time, the Stavka that the German attack was imminent. But by now false alarms were beginning Lev Malikin, a scout with "It was clearly believed All units in our division We were ordered by division intelligence to take a German prisoner That night they captured a German engineer Under interrogation "German troops have been "They will begin to attack in the direction European time. There will be an additional The hour was not far off. The Red Army planned Just as they massed for the attack, the Soviets would hit them The night sky was lit up Not all of the German assembly But the deluge of shells Other German units found it impossible Lieutenant Roshchenko, navigator "From a long way off we could see had begun along the frontline. As soon as the Soviet guns fell silent, the air was filled This barrage was intended to soften up The Scout Lev Malikin remembered, "The sound of explosions made us leap grab our submachine-guns Fire, smoke and falling earth The enemy bombardment At last it ended, under the cover of smoke shells." Tank divisions, all the military might over the course of several months, The largest tank engagement of all time, and one of the greatest July 1943. The long-awaited German Radio-controlled tankettes led the way, sent ahead to clear paths Their heavy toothed metal rollers Others laid powerful explosive charges that could clear a large area These machines cleared the way But it wasn't always easy to spot churned up by countless explosions. Many Ferdinands lost their way, By the end of the first day, half of the Most had been immobilised In the south, heavy Soviet shelling hampered Many Tigers and Panthers and tracks shattered by anti-tank mines. The Germans also ran into The ditches had to be collapsed before the tanks could pass. The famous German blitzkrieg German units became caught As soon as they suppressed one strongpoint, General Friedrich von Mellenthin wrote: No minefield or antitank before the first tank or the first Russian However, German experience They began to concentrate all their effort German panzer units Its tip was formed which took out Soviet Medium and light tanks followed. When the Germans had succeeded in smashing they rushed to exploit it. Army Group South was supported by almost They rained bombs They also bombed minefields to clear It took 17 hours to breach the first General Vatutin responded by sending Katukov recalled a report "Burda began his report. The enemy from fifty to a hundred tanks at a time. "Dealing with them "You shoot at them, but the shells "Losses... Terrible losses, sir. A Soviet T-34 tank had to get and then fire at its thin side armour. The German Tigers and Panthers, meanwhile, could penetrate the T-34's front armour The huge losses sustained forced Katukov to share his concerns But there was no change of orders. As he prepared for another suicidal assault, It was Stalin. He asked Katukov to speak Katukov proposed digging in the tanks, and letting the enemy come Stalin was silent for a while... "You will stop the counterattack." Katukov's tanks took up defensive positions But when General Kravchenko's 5th was threatened with encirclement, Colonel with special orders He would shoot Kravchenko if he did not Kravchenko's counterattack ran straight into With half his vehicles destroyed, of an encirclement Meanwhile in the northern sector, General Rokossovsky also ordered On the second morning of the battle, General Rodin's 2nd Tank Army The counterattack failed to dislodge Later in the day, they attacked one more Advancing against powerful the Soviet tank divisions took But they did manage The 2nd Tank Army went on the defensive. When a fresh German panzer it ran straight into The ruined train station at Ponyri The Germans gathered their surviving self-propelled guns into a task force, German units managed to get behind But now they found themselves in one of It was here that Sergeant Mikhail Fomin, a gun-layer of the 159th was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet He continued firing even when wounded. The "fire pocket" was a tactic used working together to lure German Some guns would act as bait, and drawing the enemy tanks towards them. Once in range, camouflaged anti-tank At a range of just 200 to 300 metres, Model's Ninth Army had failed to achieve a By the fifth day of the battle, the northern offensive Rokossovsky had accomplished Now it was time to think of attack. On the telephone to Stalin and Zhukov, While the enemy had been held in the north, in the south the battle was entering Here the Germans had more room And despite heavy tank losses, they had broken through The Red Army rushed reinforcements The Germans had 200 Panthers After five days of fighting, The new Soviet antitank aerial bombs were Just one hit could destroy a tank. But the Waffen SS panzer divisions determined, and tactically skillfull. Strongpoint by strongpoint, they fought their The breakthrough into open One Soviet operations report stated: "The circumstances that allowed as our tanks and trucks retreated, that it was impossible to lay anti-tank One Communist Youth member, serving with the 287th "On the night of 11th July We were told: "There will be They will be either your fortress, To prevent a German breakthrough, the Stavka used its strategic More than 400 tanks, and thousands of infantry were on the move Boris Nazarov, the loader "We were on the move We had all our hatch covers open, The commander forbad us so inside we were practically naked." Vatutin planned to use these reserves General Rotmistrov's 5th Guards Tank Army was due to take up positions near This was to be the base for its assault. But the German 2nd SS Panzer Corps Here they were poised to break They had only been held here by a miracle. Leibstandarte-SS Adolf Hitler they'd been hit from the far bank of the Psel River. Concern about their exposed flanks would The Leibstandarte division waiting for the SS Division Totenkopf Meanwhile Rotmistrov's 5th Guards The Soviet tanks maintained Their approach remained But when the sun rose, soon spotted the multitude of vehicles, and alerted their own troops The 5th Guards Tank Army between the Psel River and the railway. The front was further restricted The Soviet tank brigades to attack through this narrow gap. Soviet tanks usually attacked When an enemy gun fired, Attacking on such a small frontage But there was no hope of Shortly after dawn, the 5th Guards Hellmuth Becker, commanding a regiment "I saw clouds of dust on the horizon. Soon, out of these clouds "The Russians have sent in their reserve", and realized that But events at Prokhorovka were far As the Soviet tanks rounded the wide ravine, where they made easy targets Tank after tank was hit, or being torn apart in massive explosions. Tank commander Briukhov remembered: Powerful explosions sent 5-tonne Some explosions were so powerful that an entire tank was blown As the tank battle raged the thick black smoke from countless Soviet losses were terrifying - In the pulverising engagement, But the implications Paul Hausser, commander immediately began to withdraw Operation Citadel had failed. That same day, two Soviet Fronts launched of the Kursk salient. The goal of the operation was including Model's Ninth Army, A powerful artillery bombardment It was so effective that the initial But as the advance continued, Model realised the threat. were hurriedly redeployed He directed the Luftwaffe to attack Soviet The famous Stuka ace Hans-Ulrich "My aircraft was armed with antitank guns, I destroyed four tanks in the first attack. To cover Model's retreat, Rudel's stuka was shot down near the town but was back in the air "The Soviets began to repel our airborne antitank attacks quite successfully." "This was because they learnt to bring up alongside their lead tanks." Soviet fighters were also in action. the Soviet Union's top-scoring fighter ace, Ivan Kozhedub was a triple Hero He wasn't shot down once in the entire war. He flew 330 missions and brought down 64 It's rumoured that his victories which had attacked his unfamiliar Meanwhile down below, Soviet tank reserves Tanker Nikolay Zhelesnov was in the thick "The German defences consisted of antitank guns I destroyed 2 guns I shot at it twice, and it went dead. It was due to our driver, not me, I just told him over the tank radio: After we ran over its carriage, "Crush the other one too, The Red Army failed to encircle But Model was forced into retreat. Eventually he was able to regroup By 5th August, the Red Army of German resistance in Orel. Vatutin's assault against Army Group South It was a full three weeks had regathered sufficient strength. Operation Polkovodets Rumyantsev was finally The SS panzer divisions had been Therefore the German line Achieving a rapid breakthrough, and Rotmistrov's 5th Guards Tank Army On the third day of the offensive, Red Army On 5th August, The salutes, the first to be fired honoured the liberators The Soviet troops now advanced on Kharkov. lead units of Katukov's 1st Tank Army and crossed the Poltava-Kharkov It was there that they were hit He had scrambled together and thrown them into The Soviet vanguard was forced Meanwhile Konev's Steppe Front The Germans had turned A frontal attack would be disastrous. And so 5th Guards Tank Army to threaten Kharkov's defenders with But now Rotmistrov's "old friends", the SS returned from the south, At one stage, General Rotmistrov one from Vatutin, demanding, another from Konev, It triggered a heated discussion involving the army commander, and the Military Council, "You have to come to some decision, sir", To which he replied, "I've decided to hold "But sir, we could be put on trial and shot "If we leave our positions we will certainly be shot. It would expose the entire left flank Fortunately for him, Rotmistrov's His army played a crucial part in repelling Soon Rotmistrov's 5th Guards Tank Army by advancing on Kharkov from the west. The German's only line of retreat was Hitler demanded that Manstein But this would mean the encirclement Manstein was not prepared On the afternoon of 22nd August, Soviet air reconnaissance reported that Konev launched an immediate assault. The city was liberated It was a triumphant finale General Guderian wrote in his diary: "With the failure of the Citadel offensive Needless to say, the Russians There would be no respite From now on, the enemy was in Operation Citadel was the last Now the Wehrmacht began a long retreat. In their wake, they left Hundreds of Russian and Ukrainian Crops were destroyed. Any villagers capable of work were shipped The Soviet troops Here, on the banks of the Dnieper River,