On LinkedIn last year, we were remote, and now that's The laptop class is living It's messed up to assume work, but you don't. Quiet Cutting done right is have that employee satisfaction. If the quiet way, it impacts the well. The biggest market is the You know, if you look at their budget is, it's Employers are hesitant to their recent experience So there aren't as many of folks who are trying to On paper, the job market now Unemployment hit a 54 year of 2023, and US employers the payroll in 2023 alone. The January jobs report market was off to a solid When we look at the hard that the labor market has fact, surprisingly 2023 where we had headlines of recession. But when you Americans tend to be a about how the economy is about the job market, Just talking about how the I just want to scream from Then how come no one can Recently, unemployed full average of 30 jobs only to callbacks or responses. If you look at the job vacancies, but not down enormously. But if you ask, you know, fill them? The answer seems So why does it feel so hard And is the US labor market Hi. My name is Jenna I'm from Ardmore, suburbs of Philadelphia. This job market is like the seen. I was frustrated just process has been going. I haven't quantified how applied to. It would be a little point to quantify it. Um, but I was definitely in At least 55% of unemployed out from searching for a Younger generations were complaining of burnout Looking for a job can be a There's a lot that goes Filling out applications can be time consuming and Every day it just feels like Groundhog the same thing. When I looked at the data, through a job board, the were about 3%. So you got to apply to a order to have a chance to And you're going to get responses. And it's A 2023 study from Glassdoor applicants being ghosted by grew substantially since pandemic. We often hear from job tons and tons of even hear back, and that mentally taxing. It's unprofessional as well. It's like, especially if time to do an interview least let them know. I think it's because of It's easy to put up a job that job. So when you get response, it's often very every single solitary Certainly during the the, the market was at a fever ghosted by candidates, hadn't happened as much in So we've seen it happen on And I think a lot of it is The time it takes for a also hit an all time high during the first quarter of like the energy and defense days for hire. Application process has been with going through multiple assessments. My worst large financial institution with them, and I also had a the team members. After that, I had a case vague instructions. They got back to me and feel like there was enough. They gave me another In the end, I just ended up recruiter and saying like, think this is the best fit. Um, because even if I did know, they were okay with would have been three more A lot of employers think is a good thing, and it's Most job interviews are not They don't know that the going to reveal anything candidate or not. They don't know when they right answer is. And this is a development while. It's not a good Uh, and even if the labor would still be seeing some There are generally two describe the state of the Usually when economists talk they mean hot, essentially. Mostly what that means is employers to find workers. And so in that context, hesitant to lay off They tend to try to be more hire, whether that means on the job training. By contrast, a loose labor is one where there might be freezes. It might be workers who are either workers who are trying to first time. The American labor market following the end of the So many companies had to pandemic, and then all at hire again as their So you had so many job the same time. Job openings surged to country continued to labor shortage. With so many plentiful job Americans quit their jobs jobs, in a trend that came Resignation. But the job signs of cooling. There's less of a frenzy on If you're somebody who a frenzy on the part of the like to have lots of people I think one interesting right now is that it is is low, and similarly the low. The layoff and discharge hovering near historic layoffs reported visible tech and media So I think what might be employers are hesitant to They're hesitant to push recent experience with But on the flip side, that workers are sitting tight. They're not quitting, And so there aren't as many would normally expect from trying to break into those Meanwhile, research from seekers search intensity in compared to the year In 2022, there was one open applicant on the LinkedIn By 2023, the ratio turned active applicants. Right now in the seeing is both employers bit more selective. Everybody's taking a little approach right now, being a their choices. And that's of a cooling in the However, experts reassure market is no reason for It is important to have a more historical on this. You know, if you're hunting can't find one, it looks you. But compared to your great job market. I think that sentiment is So in 2021, 2022, there Companies were hiring very And so even if 2024 is relatively healthy labor it doesn't feel quite as A cooldown in the labor Federal Reserve had interest rate hikes. If you are the Federal the economy down, that markets down a bit. The biggest market is the You know, if you look at their budget is, it's So you can't easily cool cool the labor market down. Experts also noted that the will largely rely on where If the economy does slow 2024, if we see a recession can be somewhat resilient, the broader economic And so that's definitely out for in 2024. It's not a guarantee that remain as strong. Broadly speaking, we might economy. That doesn't job search is an easy I guess the big thing I you know, it's not you. It's happening to thousands thousands of people at the And it has to do with bigger economy. It has to also has to do with a lot employers about how they It's definitely, um, But, you know, I just and, um, still keep diving tight with family and Um, just to give you, you um, you know, that you moment and, um, to give you that you can do it. This is how corporate work in 2023. The laptop class is living It's messed up to assume work, but you don't. It's not just a I think it's morally wrong. Listen, it doesn't work for It doesn't work for really work for management. And this is how the remote work in 2020 during The biggest advantages, I pools of talent who don't and aren't willing to move Since we've all been forced nine months, I think we've somebody in a particular work the hours to be able it very effectively. So about hiring. Let's pause here. Notice something. In fewer than three years, reversed their approach to And it seems like this The latest data from the fewer than 26% of US someone working from home. That's down from 37% in So the reason we're having about remote work dying is, kept thinking that we're quote unquote, normal when had people working from very temporary, and we were So really, what's changed work is the slowdown in the There are a lot of suspicions about remote can see that kind of by the actually went to being the pandemic. So the about remote work were reshuffle, but they didn't choice. But with the for the pandemic this year, to bring people back and concerns that they might Remote work was thrust upon pandemic. Before the pretty rare, so about 5% of We were forced to work from and professionals were much of 2020. And then it turned out it's Such as: no commute, working in laundry between zoom calls, terms of time, in terms of commute, in terms of being your children or pick them People quickly found ways to communications together, together in whatever tools support that work and that As the world slowly started America began to change its So much so that some firms their employees if they Zoom , the company that is fully remote work. Even zoom, the video helped make the remote work place, is also taking a office. It's an abrupt shift from a majority of its employees schedule, with just 2% So some of the pushback concerns about been some experimental are some productivity remote work. But those experiments, right. It's unclear how they apply The United States does have Before the second quarter had experienced five over year declines in In fact, a major study that coauthored found that fully productivity declines of compared to fully in-person Now, the other important pointed out, look, what is profitability. And it turns out that if remote, you also save a lot So you're saving about 10% don't have an office. And then you can have these internationally and maybe Remote workers: they may be they are so much cheaper firms to have many teams, If you're coming up with the put the positive narrative work, I'd like to think, like when people were all What, you're not allowed to at all, right. So now favor. So I'd like to If the employee can Uh, perform their, their responsibilities, they from wherever makes them as possible. I camped in I was in North Dakota in I'd been up and down the I've been to our national I feel best working and best work done. I believe My name is Sujan Parajuli. I used to work for J.P. Morgan and Chase. It was all remote. Uh, but once they changed office, that was in Plano, But, uh, I live in to, uh, move out there I have two school going I have to manage work life That was the reason why I J.P. Morgan had given me, find another job, and I companies and found a So I have been working senior system analyst. Parajuli is not alone in his return to an office remote job, though, is New research from Indeed declining faster in many jobs can be done playing out on LinkedIn as So on LinkedIn last year, we were remote, and now that's But over this time, we've Now we see about 1 in 7 from 1 in 11 last year. So we're seeing more folks But they are not coming days a week. Many employers are strong in that they would love As a result I do see that slowly dying and becoming The pandemic induced shift concerns about the future especially office spaces. The latest report from suggests that remote work billion from the value of major cities around the empty offices created by cities are also leading to quote, urban doom loop. The problem does start with And we've seen with the hybrid work, a dramatic over these past three years vacancy rates and in fact, in the office market right pressure, downward pressure offices. You mentioned that probably 2,030% already. They're likely to fall by And that causes downward revenues because for a lot revenues is a big chunk of much as 50%. Some of that is is coming So maybe 10% of overall tax from office. If those their value, tax revenues And that creates a huge So like everything there are losers as we transition to work as a permanent potential losers is part because offices aren't not needed at all. So commercial real estate work. We may also be that support workers who So think about your food services, all of these around folks coming into they may face difficulties much. Commercial real estate is big cities, but there are a saying that we need to office because our empty, which is a little have people use the horse going to wipe out that understand that the world working have changed, and outdated way simply because commercial real estate. Commercial real estate We've already seen in some converted, it's being used it's being converted into we're going to have to get what to do with those empty If you're pushing your the office, you've got to coming back to the office I don't think we ever will pre-pandemic days. What I do think we will seeing, is that there is a person. And that's why saying, come back one day a days a week, maybe four But I do think that the old hours on the premises, I do I don't think it's coming I'm a family person, and like multiple hours by commute hours and which I I can, uh, keep those hours been benefiting a lot. And I always prefer to do Work from home is here to And, uh, you know, if the best thing to do is work, because it's Hey. So I have good and bad Which do you want to hear What's the bad news? Your current role has been Okay, what's the good news? You're being reassigned. This is an example of quiet trend that's been We've talked about quiet Now there's a new trend. Quiet cutting. A new trend is here: quiet Some bosses have been trying quiet cutting. Quiet cutting is reassigning the roles and completely different thing. By not giving them layoff something for you, we'll Here is the job. Take it or leave it. And that basically is scenario by the employer to For the past few years we We've seen the great was a sign of a strong market, tight, tight labor Employees have had the Quiet cutting is a are starting to turn, that have that upper hand now. Quiet cutting is just a when a company reorganizes teams is not new, it's not And reorgs have made to benefit the historically always It is being highlighted as mass layoffs and changes in seeing. This is Matt Conrad. He's been reassigned twice He ended up with a job he process took a toll. Yeah. So I was actually 366 days. And unfortunately, I live disabilities and major anxiety disorder, and all simultaneously. Um, and I on, uh, really a twice a Um, and I ended up taking to make sure I protected my IBM isn't alone in having roles. Big name companies Salesforce have been reassignments. Also, in May found that hiring many countries, but trending upwards in several Some economists say that market remaining strong, what lies ahead. So they're cutting tactic. You know, quiet cutting is are fearful of what's They're fearful that the recession or that they will And they are concerned that down the line. And so this for them. The other thing saves employers money major layoff then you have There's all sorts of other into play that will cost So this is sort of a way to hopefully get rid of some It's really unfortunate. It does not reflect well on is very harmful to employee So one of the things that business cycles is this refer to as creative So as we figure out what see demand slowing down, you're going to release? But then in order to costs. And that's part of So really businesses are future. And that results in reorganizations that are quiet cutting. Quiet cutting, done right is have that employee satisfaction. But if the wrong way, it impacts the It impacts the employee reputation for employers as So they really have to If the quiet cutting is the right now, or maybe layoff, have to think it of if it's For me, what I learned is process of grieving, of and then see what doors windows will open up. I never would have thought this team. I never would for a manager who really Uh, and now both those I love what I do, and I and I would encourage all pros and cons and if be done. Perhaps, you know, between two roles if that's saying, hey, would you like sort, or would you like to Uh, just giving employees think would make them feel whole thing.