I'm Neil Woods, a former I used to infiltrate And this is &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; Drug crime is entirely different from any other forms of If the police catch a drug because there is an wanting to take that opportunity. What happens over time is, at every level, is where police catch street drug dealers, they help create monopolies. So if you catch a dealer the dealer who's most able is the guy that controls the other half. In essence, it's an because only the most controlling and hostile gangs are the ones who are the most successful. Policing drugs has made the heroin and crack cocaine markets in the UK and around the world much more hostile, but Because people get arrested, And if you consider that which controls a quarter of a city, then the gang that is most capable and able to take up that opportunity and take over control of is a gang that already controls another quarter of the city. So it makes for a very combative and competitive marketplace. The target customers of is the most problematic The most hardcore 10% of heroin consumers consume 50% of the market So you can see just in dominating or exploiting You can make an with dealing with relatively few people. I realized that I had to which meant understanding that I'd previously had a And I had to readdress that quite quickly, because I had to know about -- I had to function like them. But I quickly realized that those people were in a pattern of behavior that was out of their control because of what had happened to them. And that was important to understand, because by understanding that, I could understand how organized and how I could appear and therefore get the buy increasingly large amounts of drugs, and network with the right people. The most significant dealer, or the most significant and at the bottom rung of organized crime, is the most exploited person And that is the user-dealer. It's somebody who is supplying drugs to fund their own habit. More often than not, they're doing that because they've been forced But they're the most important because they are the person Or, nowadays, it's quite often children who are the dealers to rely A user-dealer, from they would go where they're to where the next-rung-up dealer would be, and they would be given the package. And more often than not, that package would already be and sealed up, heat-sealed in plastic, and given to that dealer, and there would be an agreement that he could take a percentage of those as long as he sold the total number. Now, if you were to for the person running that gangster running a quarter of a city, say for example, most of those people I've met have been quite professional. They haven't used any drugs, they have been efficient, they have got up in the morning early, and they usually do it in shifts. They'll split a morning and they'll do it in rotation as a team. They will check which SIM or which phone they're using for the day. They will have a separate SIM which are of most use to them. They will check in with their companions, and they will meet up with the person that they're working with for that day. And what that would normally mean is that they will have a driver. They will sit in the back and they will be driven around where they will be either doing sometimes meeting in the back of that car, or sometimes meeting at remote locations, which will change on a rotational basis or on a whim. They will keep a careful eye on locations where there is a stash, where they are stashing They will also keep tabs on people who are doing the measuring-out to make sure that they're They will constantly be in contact with whoever is tasked in the policing of those people to make sure everyone is staying honest and working according to the team ethos, shall I say, and that makes sure that In essence, it's an extremely but I have to reiterate, it's the presence of people and it's general drugs policing and the use of police informants which creates that desperately The gangs that are the most successful are the ones who are most able and willing to use immediate violence. And so that threat of becomes one of the most And so they have to put time into that, they have to put effort, they have to bring discipline into that control of people. So they need to give tighteners to people, they need to constantly So if there is a group of sex workers who are committed to buying the heroin or crack from that gang, then they will remind them of that, and they will use violence to do so. I had actually given up undercover work just before the Burger But I was manipulated, because two other undercover operatives had tried to get close to them, and they'd not got close, dangerously not got close. But it was an extraordinary and it had really serious ups and downs. So, I went to Northampton and I picked on two vulnerable And I decided these were the people who were going to eventually introduce me to the Burger Bar Boys. Because I knew they I knew that they'd been And after lots of work, I eventually persuaded to the Burger Bar Boys. And that was a terrifying experience. And so I was directed to their little headquarters I was directed to the and this hooded figure went and stood on the toilet and looked over, and he said, &quot;What's this?&quot; And he kept asking other questions and then rephrasing the questions, trying to catch me out. I knew the guy looking was implicated in seven different murders. In particular, I knew he was the person who'd sourced two submachine guns for a multiple murder of two women. Then four hooded figures came in, and as the door bashed open and they started walking around me, every so often one would headbutt me on the side of the head on the ear. And I was getting jostled And then all of a sudden he said, &quot;All right, then. What do you want?&quot; As soon as he said the words, &quot;All right, then. What do you want?&quot; The four hooded figures had walked out. And I said, &quot;I'll have which meant I'll have 1.4 deal of crack. And I handed over my 40 pounds, and he gave it to me looking down on me. And then I got his phone number. He put Woody, he actually put my name in the phone, his phone. And I started to buy increasing and gather evidence of I was in. The most important task that I had, to get that phone number, to get that beginnings of trust, I'd got it. That was it. It was just the most intense operation. There was always something, and there was always It never went away. Never went away, not for one minute. And, anyway, seven months, it lasted. And I was pleased to think by the end of that seven months that I'd gathered evidence the six main gangsters And I knew there was no one else to meet. There were no new phone numbers, there was no names I I'd caught everyone. There were police from hundreds of people involved Loads of doors being smashed in. And a week or so after the event, I spoke to the intel &quot;Yep, we managed to interrupt the heroin and crack cocaine supply in Northampton for a full two hours.&quot; All of the belief I had that had been eroding and it had been eroding away, I had to give in to the and realize that this is futile. Now, what this does is If you have allowed a dealer or a gang or a cartel to increase their share of the market, then they are richer, which means they have more In Mexico, there used to be 20 cartels. Now there are three. Each one of those three are Sweden has an extraordinary and they're not just using machine guns, they're using grenades. They're using IEDs. They're There's literally hundreds between drug gangs competing to control drug markets across northern Europe. This is something that we especially as Sweden takes pride in having the toughest Cause and effect, I would say. The most significant has been the shift of online. The dark web, the dark markets. The lack of physical contact so that's a good thing it's moved online. And also there is a way of having self-regulation, because there's reviews left, so people can increase the likelihood of better-quality commodities. Claims by FBI agents or whoever it is that they can crack codes and use hackers to bring these markets The dark markets will continue as a response to policing. Since I've left the police, and that's called &quot;Good Cop, Bad War.&quot; My position is the position which is the Law Enforcement We advocate for the full to take control away from organized crime. And, increasingly, we're becoming the most important voices for reform.