In the years after World War II, Britain embarked on a journey to rebuild and embrace a hopeful future. However, this vision of peace was soon disrupted by a new threat of war. The Soviet Union emerged as the new adversary. The real peril lay in the fact that both the Soviets and the West possessed nuclear weapons, leading to a tense stalemate. Neither side was willing to risk total destruction by taking hasty actions. The Royal Air Force was tasked with safeguarding Britain's nuclear deterrent. By the early 1960s, the RAF had reached the peak of its power. Tensions were escalating, exacerbated by events such as the construction of the Berlin Wall and the Cuban Missile Crisis. The Cold War teetered on the brink of becoming dangerously heated. Around the clock, seven days a week, the RAF's surveillance and response capabilities were finely tuned to react immediately to any changes. Their reach extended halfway around the globe, enabling them to address threats on a moment's notice, with jet fighters capable of flying at over twice the speed of sound. This period was defined by the Quick Reaction Alert, QRA. It was two minutes, you could sit in the aircraft, listening on a teledive that communicated with the sector operations centre. And they would give you a rundown of what was happening. At some stage they'd say, mission 7-4, whatever it is, they'd give you a vector, a heading and a height, scramble, scramble, scramble. And at that stage your engines weren't running, and two minutes later you could be airborne, the QRA sheds being on the end of the runway. For the time you're on QRA, you're dressed in your flying kit, and when you're wearing an immersion suit, you know, that wearing for a length of period, it becomes fairly exhausting. with the goal of intercepting and destroying enemy bombers over the North Sea. If any managed to get past, they would face a new generation of anti-aircraft defence, surface-to-air missiles. The fighters themselves were armed with these powerful missiles, which offered a greater destructive capability than traditional gunfire, increasing the likelihood of neutralizing a bomber. In the context of nuclear war, precision and effectiveness were paramount. Britain's most formidable defense lay in its nuclear arsenal. When directed, massive jet bombers could be airborne within minutes. Operating at high altitudes, beyond the range of most enemy defenses, these bombers would launch missiles equipped with nuclear warheads from over a hundred miles away from their targets. Although these scenarios were rigorously practiced, they never materialized in reality. The policy of deterrence proved effective to some extent. However, had something gone awry, we now have an understanding of the potential consequences for the country. The documents and reports prepared by military planners in the event of a nuclear strike were declassified in 2001. They make chilling reading. It was estimated that a nuclear conflict could result in around 12 million British casualties and the destruction of all major cities. The RAF bases would be among the initial targets in any attack, meaning that pilots who were scrambled would be acutely aware of the slim chances of returning. This daunting responsibility was met with a high level of respect by the RAF. We all knew it was possible and I think we all felt that unless there was some ghastly mistake or accident, it would be unlikely that anybody would pick on us because of the nuclear deterrent. We hoped so anyway. Our general mindset was that there was a formidable and feisty and unstable regime in the Soviet Union and that we would certainly have our hands full. So the Cold War, despite its detractors, was taken very seriously and I think correctly. And yes, I think we were geared up. Not that we thought any minute the Soviet force would necessarily come, but it was certainly there. And when things like the Cuban Missile Crisis happened, you know, you certainly felt that you had to be on. I have to say that after the war, with jets coming in, there were an awful lot of flying accidents through a rather casual approach to conversion to new types of aircraft. It was so bad that, you know, the air ministry had to grip the problem and introduced very strict disciplinary measures to cut down the casualty rate, cut down the accidents. Training was very much improved, very much more thorough. And, oh yes, it was quite remarkable the difference between the early post-war, learning to fly a new type of airplane. For pilots aiming to advance to fighter roles, the next phase involved more sophisticated training, including weapons instruction. By the early 1960s, the Hawker Hunter, which had entered frontline service in 1954, had succeeded the de Havilland Vampire T11 as the advanced trainer. The two-seat variant, the T7, was introduced in 1958. Like its predecessors, the Hunter T7 was capable of achieving supersonic speeds in a shallow dive. It also retained the side-by-side cockpit layout of the Vampire, which was considered more effective for training. side-by-side cockpit layout of the Vampire, which was considered more effective for training. The side-by-side cockpit layout allowed students to observe their instructor's facial expressions, enhancing communication and instruction. ...forward to keep the site stable as we're turning in. Don't over correct. Now let the pepper come back on the flag. Smoothly now. Throughout its service, the Hunter saw continuous upgrades in power and armament, earning a strong reputation in various roles, including air combat, photo reconnaissance and ground attack. I loved it. I really, really loved it. It was a beautiful aeroplane. It was a beautiful looking aeroplane. Absolute delight to fly. Strong. I loved it. Wonderfully balanced controls. Good power to weight ratio for those days. Fast. Very, very manoeuvrable. Very manoeuvrable. It was super. I enjoyed it. I loved it. I don't think there are many people who didn't love the Hunter. I enjoyed it very much. It was a lovely aeroplane to fly. Great fun to fly. I went to Germany, of course, and a lot of the squadrons, the Hunter squadrons in the UK, were day fighter. We did day fighter ground attack in Germany so we had a complete cross-section of the role if you like, high level work, low level work, ground attack work and strafing, dropping bombs and that it was just it was just good fun and of course the environment in those days lots of freedom, lots of flying, big squadrons, lots of airplanes, lots of other nations flying out there of course, because the Canadians, the Americans, the French, the Dutch, the Belgian, all the NATO countries were, and we'd get involved in monstrous dogfights, or air combat as they now call them. So that's, and I love, the airplane was a delight to fly. Trials were completed with the Hunter jet trainer performing a low-level napalm bomb strike. As the aircraft can carry any of the external stores fitted to the Hunter single seater, it has all in all a tremendous destructive potential as a close support aircraft. In 1951, RAF Bomber Command embraced the jet age with the introduction of the English electric Canberra. Similar to the highly successful wartime de Havilland Mosquito, the Canberra was designed to fly both fast and high enough to forego defensive armament. The Canberra was a magnificent airplane to fly. It was like flying a fighter almost, and you didn't sort of think of the size. And so that was my first introduction, if you like, to jet bombers. A total of 40 RAF squadrons operated Canberras across Europe, the Middle East and the Far East. And although it was originally designed to carry three full conventional bombs, the introduction of smaller nuclear weapons in the early 1960s meant that Canberras were able to take their place as part of the RAF's nuclear deterrent. Initially, senior RAF officers were disappointed with the Canberra, as they had hoped for a heavy bomber. However, over time, the Canberra demonstrated its exceptional capabilities. Its adaptable design allowed it to be modified for various roles, including photo reconnaissance and electronic countermeasures. Given its impressive performance, it was no surprise that the Canberra set numerous records. One of the most remarkable was the altitude record set in 1957 by Whiskey Kilo 163. At a time when high flying bombers were considered the future, WK163 achieved a world record altitude of 70,000 feet. The aircraft was equipped with Armstrong-Siddeley Sapphire engines and received additional boost from a Napier double-Scorpion rocket engine installed in the bomb bay. This same rocket engine was also being tested in what would become another notable English electric design, the Lightning. The Canberra's near fighter-like performance continues to impress, especially considering it was conceived as early as 1944. While the RAF may have initially been disappointed by the lack of a heavy jet bomber at the onset of the Cold War, it was soon to be reassured by the introduction of a trio of four-engine jet bombers designed to operate at high altitudes and deliver nuclear payloads. The mere capability of deploying a nuclear bomb was intended to serve as a deterrent to potential aggressors. The first of what would become known as the V-Force was the Vickers Valiant, which which entered RAF service in 1955. The Valiant, which had a crew of five, was powered by four Rolls-Royce Avon engines, each producing 10,000 pounds of thrust. Like its V-bomber counterparts, the Vickers Valiant was devoid of defensive armament, as its service ceiling of 54,000 feet was thought to be beyond the reach of Soviet fighters. My first flight in the Valiant at RF Gaiden when I did the conversion was that of size. You could tell that you were handling something much larger, but still relatively light on the controls because of things like power controls, power operated and there really wasn't a great deal different in the technique. One could say that it was a larger, like a four-engine Canberra. Basically, it handled so well. And whereas the Canberra was a single pilot operation, then there's no question that the Valiant required two pilots. The non-flying pilot was always the one who looked after the fuel system and the distribution of fuel throughout the airplane. Although it featured a relatively conventional design, it provided the RAF with an aircraft capable of delivering nuclear weapons. First of all, regarding the weapon explosion, the aircraft was painted in a special anti-thermal flash paint. There were no black dielectric covers for the radar components on the outside. This was all, and even the flying controls, the seals on the flying controls were all made of a special anti-radiation neoprene material. The other item of equipment which is very essential was we had to blackout the whole of the crew cabin and so at a certain time prior to the bombing run all the blackout screens went up so the whole cabin was sealed. The only small slot was immediately in front of the captain on the left-hand side, which was a very heavily smoked glass screen, a matter of 3 or 4 inches by 1 inch or so, a very small slot. Now, on the explosion of the weapon, we felt this in the form of two shockwaves. The first one was the immediate air blast and this affected our instruments in that the vertical speed indicator went to full-scale deflection, i.e. 4000 feet a minute down and then settled back again to zero. The second shock was the reflected groundwave several seconds later and it did shake the aircraft, there was no doubt. It was quite a thump that we felt. By this time we were going away from the explosion, we had our tail towards it, having completed an escape manoeuvre. And this escape manoeuvre involved turning through, I think, about 135 degrees and pulling an exact amount of G. We had a very accurate accelerometer fitted and I believe it was something in the order of about 1.7 G, not a lot but at that amount of G we could guarantee to have completed the escape maneuver. And so immediately we had completed the escape maneuver, down came the blackout screens and the results of our efforts. This huge mushroom cloud, way up into the stratosphere. The Handley Page Victor made its maiden flight on Christmas Eve 1952, but it wasn't until 1958 that it entered RAF service as the B1. The Victor was technically advanced, designed to fly fast and high, beyond nearly all known defences. Its distinctive crescent wing design allowed it to cruise at high Mach numbers, powered by four Armstrong Siddeley Sapphire turbojets mounted deep within sharply swept wings. However, by the time the Victor was operational, it had been surpassed by fighters and missiles that could intercept it at its cruising altitudes. As a result, more sophisticated electronic countermeasures were housed in the rear fuselage. The RAF was also advancing its arsenal with new weapons, capable of being launched from hundreds of miles away from their targets. A more powerful variant of the Victor, designated the B-2, began development in 1958. It was a rather different feel. Although the Valiant was a good, solid aeroplane, the Victor II felt a much beefier aeroplane, if I might use the expression. It was a very, very solid machine. You knew that it was bigger. It also had the new Rolls-Royce Conway engines, which developed about double the amount of thrust the Valiant had. And of course, the other thing was that it was designed to operate in the mid-50s, was the Victor II, and for that reason we all had to go and do this pressure breathing course, and be issued with all these G-suits and pressure jerkins, and to be able to, in case of explosive decompression in the 50s, 50 to 1000 feet. However, the Victor II was a very successful airplane and it compared very favourably with the Vulcan. By 1965, the Victor B1s were reintroduced into service as tankers. While in-flight refueling had been explored in Britain before World War II, its full potential was realized in the 1960s. Although jet aircraft offered superior performance compared to piston-engine planes, they consumed more fuel. In-flight refueling significantly extended the range of these new jets and allowed them to take off with more weapons on board by carrying less fuel to reduce weight. The Victors continued in their tanker role until after the Gulf War in 1991. Among the V-Force, the Avro Vulcan was perhaps the most remarkable aircraft. Its most notable feature was its massive delta wing, which not only provided exceptional strength, but also allowed it to carry a large payload of bombs or a single, very large bomb. At the time, very little was known about the aerodynamic performance of the Delta Wing, so two, one-third scale research aircraft were constructed to gather data. The 707B was focused on evaluating the Delta Wing's characteristics at low speeds. Both aircraft were powered by a single Rolls-Royce Derwent engine. Despite the ongoing research, Avro's confidence in the Delta Wing concept was so strong that they began building a full-sized aircraft before the 707 research program was complete. This was a significant gamble, as almost every aspect of the aircraft was based on new and unproven technologies. The anticipation was palpable when, on August 30, 1952, the first prototype made its maiden flight. Hi, taxi car. Clear to taxi, runway 26. I'm going to go ahead and turn off the camera. The The prototype of the Vulcan was initially a pure Delta design, but during trials at RAF Boscombe Down in 1955, it was discovered that high G manoeuvres at altitude caused buffeting, which could lead to wing failure due to fatigue. To address this issue, the Delta wing sweep was modified from the root to mid-span, creating a kinked leading edge rather than a straight one. The Vulcan B1s were powered by four Bristol Olympus engines, each capable of producing up to 13,500 pounds of thrust. The B1s entered frontline RAF service in the summer of 1957. I think quite early on in my Vulcan time, realising the extraordinary sensitivity of this enormous aircraft, the extraordinary ease with which one could maneuver it, and the genius, when it was no less, would have gone into designing this flying machine, never mind the awful implications of the bomb, never mind the military aspect. Here are coupled with other classic aircraft. Tiger Moth was one, the Spitfire was another, the Vulcan was the third, for real thoroughbreds of the air. As far as the Vulcan was concerned, there's an element of mystique. It did require a different flying technique. There was a definite handling technique with the Vulcan and one could get into some kind of trouble, but nevertheless, once you really have mastered it, it really was a thrilling aircraft to fly. It looked good, it looked right and it was strong, it was solid. Just as I mentioned, the Vulcan had three main spars, so very, very strong aircraft. It was almost super, it was just subsonic, really. We... the limiting speed of a Vulcan was 0.93, the speed of sound. And I know people have had them slightly higher than that. With the V-Force now complete and confidence at an all-time high, the RAF was eager to demonstrate its capabilities on the global stage. In the United States, two teams of Vulcans and Valiants arrived to take part in the US Air Force Strategic Air Command Bombing, Navigation and Reconnaissance Competition. The operation, codenamed Longshot, proved to be aptly named, as the Vulcan crews faced a decisive defeat, a sobering lesson. The Vulcans regularly visited Akroturi in Cyprus, a strategy that paid off in 1961, when the ruler of Iraq, Abdul Kareem Qasim, threatened to invade Kuwait. With Britain having just signed a defense agreement with Kuwait, British forces were promptly deployed to the Gulf, and the Vulcans were stationed at Akroturi to provide support. This show of strength was sufficient to deter the Iraqis, demonstrating the effectiveness of swift and decisive action. The RAF's reach was truly global, with its V-force serving as a most visible symbol of its power. These exceptional and innovative aircraft, born from the visionary mind of their creators, reigned supreme. Britain's aviation industry arguably reached its peak with these advancements. They were always enormously impressed and of course as well as being beautiful to look at, it was hugely noisy. You got a sort of auditory display if you came in comparatively slowly and comparatively low, and then put on full power and pull the thing up into the sky. And the Earth literally shook with four glistening olympuses. That was the, those were the engines finally put into the production model at full power. An RAF Vulcan making a low-level run over the field had an extra unrehearsed thrill in store for spectators. Pilots had moments when they were particularly thankful for the immense power of their aircraft. But the pilot takes the bomber up again to crash land safely at a nearby station. However, back at Bomber Command's bases, planners faced a more pressing concern. How to prevent the V-force from being decimated by a decisive strike? strike. To safeguard against a potential knockout blow, a series of measures were implemented to disperse the aircraft to temporary bases. For instance, a May flight detachment involved an operational standby followed by a scramble, with aircraft then expected to land at a designated dispersal base. Although there were initial challenges and mix-ups, the effectiveness of the plan improved as the dispersal bases were equipped with the necessary facilities. This dispersal strategy was complemented by a new initiative designed to get aircraft airborne as swiftly as possible, known as Quick Reaction Alert, QRA. Under this plan, every squadron in Bomber Command maintained one fully armed aircraft, with its crew on standby and accommodated nearby, ready to launch within 15 minutes. The response time was eventually reduced to just 4 minutes, with the introduction of a communications link between controllers and crews, along with modifications to the aircraft that allowed for quicker engine starts. The V-Force was also anticipating the addition of new stand-off weapons, which could be launched from a considerable distance from their targets. As an interim solution, it was announced in 1958 that the RAF would deploy the American-built Thor ground-launched missile. Thor, an intermediate-range ballistic missile, was scheduled to enter RAF service as soon as possible under a five-year agreement. The first Thor missiles arrived in Britain in 1959. By 1961, annual spending on the V-force and Thor had reached 10% of the entire defence budget. Development of the British stand-off weapon, Blue Steel, was progressing well. These were to be launched from just over 100 miles away from the target, allowing the bomber crew to evade the most heavily defended areas. Skybolt. Officially it is designated as GAM-87A. This nuclear-tipped missile has also been given a less formal name. Skybolt. This American project promised a range that would enable the missile to be launched from one thousand miles away from the target. Bomber Command planned to modify 72 Vulcan B2s to each carry two Skybolt missiles. With this enhanced firepower, the RAF began reducing its aircraft numbers, including cancelling some of the Victor B-2s. The cancellation of the SkyBall program in December 1962 was a devastating setback for Bomber Command. In response, the Americans offered the submarine-launched Polaris missile as a substitute. Although reluctantly accepted, this offer marked the shift of the nuclear deterrent to the Navy, with the transition set for 1969. Additionally, it became evident that operating at high altitudes provided no protection from interceptors or surface-to-air missiles. As a result, the V bombers were required to fly at low levels, which led to the retirement of the Vickers Valiant. The increased stress on the airframe from low-level flying caused the Valiant's wingspars to begin to break up. In 1965, the Valiants were withdrawn from frontline service. Meanwhile, in July 1960, the English Electric Lightning F1 entered service with 74 Squadron, based at Coltishall in Norfolk. The Lightning marked Britain's first true supersonic ushering in a new era for the RAF. Not only was it exceptionally fast, but it also featured radar-guided air-to-air missiles. To counter Soviet bombers flying at high altitudes, the Lightning was designed to intercept and destroy them long before they could reach their targets. Everything about the Lightning was groundbreaking. From its weapons and radar systems to its aerodynamics, during the Lightning's development in the 1950s, it eventually became a defining characteristic of the aircraft. For pilots, the Lightning presented a new challenge, requiring them to manage both flight operations and the radar and weapons systems independently. To go from subsonic to an aeroplane that was capable of Mach 2 in level flight was quite a jump, quite a jump and of course the introduction of a weapon system that was so more complex and effective than we'd had in the past was a big jump. The conversion was fairly straightforward. We didn't have two-seaters in those days and you were taught about the systems during lectures and things like that? The aircraft that I was on, I should say that when I joined 92 we had the Mark 2 Lightning which had four Aden cannon but obviously principally the Fire Street which is a six-shot shooter if you like. And so we had a radar, AR-23 that could pick up an aircraft the size of lightning at about somewhere between 15 and 18 miles, you had very little time to interpret the radar picture you're getting and get in for a rearing shot on an aircraft. It process that needed quite a lot of speedy thinking. We had sort of mechanism by which we devolved the sort of profile we would use, but it was all done in a hell of a rush and, you know, 18 miles wasn't long with an aircraft coming towards you to make up your mind and get in behind. The first week I fired one or two live on the ranges at Aberforth and seemed to be very effective but only if you're coming in from behind at that time. I wasn't aware of any particular problems with the missile system as such other than the standard ones. Certainly with the Red Top and the Firestreak, if they were operated within their envelope, within their design envelope, for me, they seemed, they worked. And I was lucky enough to, when I was on AFDS, to do some of the Front Hemisphere Red Top trials and we were doing head-on attacks where the target was doing 1.7 and the fighter was doing 1.7, so the closing feed was, what, 3.4. And the weapons, providing you got it right, within a very narrow spectrum, of course, but the weapons worked. In 1964, the Lightning F3 was introduced into RAF service, further advancing the capabilities of Britain's air defence. This version had no guns, relying solely on two air-to-air missiles. It will always be debated the utility and effectiveness of a cannon. I was always one of those proponents who felt that while you had a cannon, the enemy could never afford to ignore you. If you fired out both fire streaks, you could still bite. And so I was a great believer in the cannon. And, you know, the old Aden cannon can be very effective if you got in close enough and the enemy wasn't being too aggressively evading. So I felt it had some utility. In the F-6, which entered RAF service in 1965, the pilots got their guns back, albeit mounted in a ventral pack under the fuselage. This new version of the Lightning featured nearly double the fuel capacity of its predecessors aimed at addressing the aircraft's limited endurance. You're always conscious of it. I mean, I don't think any lightning pilot ever took his eyes off the fuel gauge. I mean, you could literally see it moving. But of course, you know, the whole of our culture really was tanking. We had a good tanker fleet, we were constantly sort of topping up. And so, you know, if you put in reheat at all, for a supersonic interception, you'd be talking about 30 minute sorties, but, you know, the tanker was there. Actually not when I first started, but subsequently came in. So it was very much a complementary part of our activities, which gave you the range and endurance. Despite his high fuel consumption, in 1967, the RAF demonstrated its ability to deploy its lightning force over exceptionally long distances. Clive Mitchell, seen on the right of the frame, was scheduled to fly as number two to 74 Squadron's commanding officer, Ken Godwin. The purpose of exercise hydraulic, that was the move of 74 squadron, 13 airmen, pilots, engineers, families. The purpose was to put in place in the Far East, Tengah, Singapore, a supersonic interceptor capability. First impression of the Lightning, I suppose I got over the first week or so we were at Colchester Hall. It was a big aircraft fighter, it was tall. The cockpit was well above you when you walked up to the aircraft and there was a long ladder to get into the cockpit. That was the visual. We'd equipped on 74, changing the Mark 3s which had the small ventral tank to the Mark 6s which had a much larger, much larger ventral tank. But we also had to be equipped with the overwing tanks, one on each wing obviously, and unusually over the wing rather than underneath. And those were the major alteration that had to be made to meet all the diversion requirements en route. In 1967, in-flight refuelling was still a relatively novel skill for RAF pilots and the Lightning, with its demanding fuel needs, was not the ideal aircraft for mastering this technique. The Lightning was... the probe was out on the left wing and it came forward to... so you could see it under your peripheral vision. But the technique was not to try and look at the probe end and push it in the basket, because the basket was moved about by the bow wave on the aircraft. So the technique was to formate on points on the victor wing, and just drive forward, knowing that the basket would move out and then come back in again, and hopefully onto the probe. Throughout the 1960s and 70s maintaining QRA readiness was a central focus for frontline squadrons. A very high standard of readiness. I mean it seems still almost inconceivable to me that we had five minute readiness. It's five minutes any time of night or day to getting airborne. It is pretty tight for a two-engine aircraft like the Lightning. So there would always be two of us, one on five minutes and one on 15 minutes. And you took it extremely seriously. Because unlike my later experience on the Buccaneer where we had nuclear, where, you know, one sense it probably, you know, getting airborne was most, very remote. And certainly you couldn't get airborne on practice flights. With the Lightning, there was a fair chance of getting airborne most times you're on QRA. And so you really had to be geared up, both in your dress and preparation, and being ready to go from sort of packnapping to airborne in five minutes, sometimes on a very murky night. So it had its challenges. Meanwhile, in 1954, the Folland Midge made its first flight. The Midge was designed to explore the feasibility of a small, lightweight fighter as an alternative to the larger and more complex fighters entering RAF service. Despite its impressive performance, the RAF showed little interest in the Midge. However, the RAF did show interest in a version of the Folland Midge developed as a two-seat trainer in 1956. Rebranded as the NAT, National Aircraft Trainer, it became the RAF's jet trainer, intended to follow the jet Provost as part of the RAF's all-jet training program. The NAT is perhaps best known as the first aircraft used by the Red Arrows aerobatic team, which was established in 1964. The Red Arrows were designated as the official RAF display team, replacing the squadron teams that had captivated audiences at home and across Europe during the 1950s and early 1960s. I couldn't believe on a first flight that anybody could live at this speed, because having gone through training, you used to sit next to the instructor and it was always a kind of comforting feeling to have him sitting next to you, even on your own, you know, there was a seat there, but suddenly you're put in this thing which was rather like a missile and all you could see was a tiny little cockpit and a great big long piece of shoe sticking out the front and it was just flying so fast that I thought, well, you know, I mean, I don't know, my brains were well out of the back of the aeroplane at the time, but it was a very stimulating, it's one of these flights, there are not many flights in which you ever remember specifically, but I distinctly remember going off across Anglesey in this thing, wondering if I'd ever managed to fly it. I think for me, the aircraft gave me a great ability, I think to be able to think three dimensionally, to think as a different speed to the Jet Provence, which is nice and slow, but I mean, to work at 360 or 420 knots was quite different but also very significantly is fuel management because the aircraft when you took off in it was short of fuel basically and when on the Red Arrows aircraft with no slipper tanks on you know you were very short of fuel the whole time and you really did manage your fuel very very carefully indeed. But I think that as an all-round aircraft you know in terms of bringing you on to fly the front-line RAF aircraft as they were at the time, you could not really have had a better training aircraft, I don't believe. The mid-1960s brought increasing uncertainty for the RAF. In 1964, the three services ministries were merged into a single Ministry of Defence. The loss of the Valiants was a significant setback. And in 1965 came the devastating news that the aircraft intended to replace the Canberra in the reconnaissance and strike role was to be cancelled. The TSR-2 was an extraordinary achievement for the British aircraft industry, integrating new materials, advanced construction methods, and cutting-edge avionics, including terrain-following radar that promised unprecedented operational capabilities. However, the project faced escalating costs which seemed to spiral out of control. As with many major defense projects, the TSR-2 was deeply influenced by political factors, with strong supporters and opponents. Ultimately, the opponents prevailed, leading to the cancellation of the project. Today, with the benefit of hindsight, we can only speculate about what might have been if the TSR-2 had come to fruition. The loss of the TSR-2 might not have been so catastrophic had it not been for the farce that followed. It was decided that the RAF should have the General Dynamics F-111 instead of the TSR-2. However, this project also encountered significant difficulties and was subsequently cancelled. At Stanmore in Middlesex, home of Fighter Command since it was formed in 1936. Now the command which won the Battle of Britain has been disbanded and Air Marshal Sir Frederick Rozier, Commander-in-Chief, reviews the final parade. In 1968, Fighter, Bomber, Coastal and Transport Commands were consolidated into a new entity called Strike Command, with the merger taking place in April 1968, marking 50 years since the formation of the Royal Air Force. While the RAF began the 1960s at its zenith of power, it ended the decade at a significantly reduced strength, with only 1,902 aircraft truly fit for frontline service. Despite being named Strike Command, the new organization had no new aircraft to fulfill its role effectively. ...must give way to a new concept. Strike Command is the logical, realistic answer. To maintain its round-the-clock operational capability, the RAF had to rely on existing resources. Fortunately, the timing proved advantageous, as the RAF was poised to receive several highly capable aircraft during this period. The Blackburn Buccaneer had been rejected by the RAF in the early 1950s, when it was proposed as a potential joint project with the Navy. However, about ten years later, as the Navy began retiring its Buccaneer fleet due to a reduction in carrier operations, the RAF began to express renewed interest. The Buccaneer's appeal lay in its capability to fly very fast at low altitudes, and its bomb bay, which was large enough to carry a nuclear bomb. No. 12 Squadron was the first to receive a modified Buccaneer S2 in 1969. Powered by two Rolls-Royce spay engines, this two-man crewed aircraft could achieve supersonic speeds at sea level, evading enemy radar and making it a valuable asset for the RAF. The Buccaneer proved ideal for low-level strike and maritime roles. I love the role, if not ground attack, then certainly strike and attack, which I found to be immensely challenging. And while the Buccaneer didn't have the sheer raw performance of the Lightning, it had other unbelievable characteristics, of which its low-level ride, I think, still remains the supreme, supreme ride I've ever had. I was a station commander in Germany when I was actually current and raced on the Hunter, Buccaneer, Jaguar and Tornado, so I was able almost weekly to make comparisons between all those aircraft, all great in their own Buccaneer low-level ride, its range and its capability to go so fast were unique. The Buccaneer, it was such a hugely capable aircraft. It was a handful to fly in the circuit. I forget how many actions there were to go from braking to circuit to landing, but in in double figures, involving both taking hands off the control column at one stage. And when it was dirtied up and the glow was over the wings, it was a brute. A man-eating aircraft carrier must have built a concentrator mine wonderfully. But when it was cleaned up and when it was doing anywhere above 420 knots, it remains the most supportive platform of any aircraft in the world to fly at low level. And we felt with that enormous bomb bay, enormous rain, that we had a real crack of an aeroplane. And, you know, could hold its own with the capability of the Phantom, which probably in all round terms, I say somewhat rudely, probably had the best capability of all, but we felt we were very effective for what we had to do. So In 1969, another aircraft, originally designed for naval use, joined the RAF, the McDonnell Douglas Phantom. The Phantom demonstrated versatility in numerous roles across air forces worldwide. In RAF service, it was employed for air defence, ground attack and tactical reconnaissance. However, its entry into service was challenging. To align with political considerations, the Phantom was fitted with British Rolls-Royce spay engines, which were bulkier and heavier than the general electric engines it was originally designed to accommodate. Inevitably, costs began to escalate as British and American engineers worked to adapt the Phantom with British Rolls-Royce spay engines. The additional weight negated any power advantage, but after the setbacks of the TSR-2 and F-111 projects, the government needed to demonstrate support for Britain's remaining aircraft industry. Eventually, the Phantom was integrated into the RAF's front line. Juliet. Lift the light bit 056. Perfector 020, make height level 250, while X-ray out of Juliet 060. Make our position CAP5. To call Buccan, fighter stud 65, backup 2-9. Available to stand on standby, over. The Lightning by comparison The comparison was limited in its operational capability, because it was an air defender. And it was by then an air defender that had been in service some time. When the Phantom came in and had a new system, it had two different types of air-to-air weapon. There's the one you can fire from the stone like we did on the lightning. There was also the one you could fire from a head because you had a different warhead on it. Not so much warhead, it's a control system. The radar could look high and round but it also could look down because it had a different technology so whereas in the lightning if you look down you saw returns from the sea or the land in the Phantom you could see the airplane you were looking for. Much longer range much longer range. You could do mapping on the Phantom radar. The Phantom also carried air-to-ground weapons and a gun. The firing rate of which was absolutely phenomenal. range, it could fly through fuel, carry drop tanks. So you had in the Phantom Air Force had an aeroplane with tremendous capability and high performance. It wasn't from ground to high altitude as exciting as the Lightning, but it was a very, very good, powerful, manoeuvrable warhorse. It was tremendous in that respect. While the Buccaneer and Phantom were successful, they were intended only as interim solutions while new aircraft were developed. The RAF's role had evolved throughout the 1960s from a strategic nuclear force to a more tactical one using conventional weapons, necessitating new aircraft to meet these changing requirements. In 1969, one of the most revolutionary aircraft ever to enter service with the RAF was introduced, the Harrier GR1 joining No. 1 Squadron. The Harrier's standout feature was its ability to transition seamlessly from conventional flight to hover, making it perfect for close air support roles. This remarkable aircraft originated in 1957 as a private venture to develop a tactical aircraft around the new Bristol Pegasus engine. engineered to channel exhaust through four adjustable nozzles, providing vertical lift for a fixed-wing aircraft. Despite its innovative design, the project's future remained uncertain amid the political upheavals of the mid-1960s. It was not until the United States Marine Corps provided crucial funding that the Harrier was able to continue its development and eventual deployment. The GR1 was a very simple aeroplane. It just had a huge great compass on it, a big artificial horizon. Very light, obviously it had to be because the engine at the time wasn't producing that much thrust. But as it went on, the power over weight ratio remained pretty much the same because the more they put on the aeroplane, the engine got a little bit more powerful always struggling for performance in the aircraft. When I flew Harriers, it was a ground attack aircraft, jobs like that, and a lot of the work that you did, and I was posted to Germany on my first tour, was working off base, working out of fields. And from that point of view, you know, you really had to, you know, have a pretty sort of broad-minded view to aviation, I think, that the training up until then, you know, prepared you extremely well for what was in store. That right up at the front edge type of stuff, you know, and we could move rapidly, you know, we could redeploy between sites, as it turns out. But the learning curve was extremely steep, and that was for all of us, you know, and not just me as the bottom end of the pile. Harry, on two subsequent occasions, the way we did our business was refined enormously, as was the aircraft, of course, you know, so all in all, I think we improved significantly. One of the RAF's often overlooked Cold War success stories was its long-range transport aircraft. Recognizing the crucial need to rapidly transport personnel and equipment worldwide, the RAF embraced the capabilities of jet airliners early on. The de Havilland Comet's first flight in 1949 marked the dawn of the jet age for commercial aviation. Number 216 squadron made history in 1956 as the world's first military operator of a jet airliner, taking delivery of the Comet II. Powered by four Rolls-Royce Avon engines, the Comet could cruise at 40,000 feet, well above the piston engine airliners of the time. However, the fleet faced a serious setback when several Mark I models crashed due to pressurization failures, leading to a grounding of the aircraft. By 1958, the new Comet 4 had completed its maiden flight, marking a significant advancement and recovery for the Comet series. The Comet 4, extended and reinforced to achieve greater distances, faced delays in entering RAF service due to previous accidents, eventually joining the fleet in 1962 and serving until 1975. By 1965, the RAF sought a new maritime patrol aircraft to replace its aging Avro Shackleton fleet. The government opted to adapt the Comet 4's airframe for this role. This adaptation involved significant structural modifications, including a shortened fuselage with an underslung pannier for operational equipment and a vast weapons bay. The result of this program was the Nimrod, named after the legendary biblical hunter. The Nimrod is now recognized as one of the most effective overwater and anti-submarine aircraft globally. The Nimrod MR1 entered RAF service with No. 201 Squadron in October 1969. Equipped with a standard crew of 12, the Nimrod's roles included anti-submarine warfare, maritime surveillance, and anti-shipping strike. conducting patrols for up to 12 hours and could continue flying on just one engine if needed. Since his introduction, the Nimrod has undergone continuous updates, maintaining its role in patrolling vast stretches of sea. What became of those pioneering aircraft that once captured global attention at the start of the decade? Today, most are grounded, too advanced for private use, but too expensive to maintain within the Air Force. Many of them have been dismantled, though a few have survived the scrapyard. Among the most renowned is Vulcan XH558. There remains hope that one day it might be permitted to fly again, serving as a testament to the remarkable achievements of the aerospace industry as it pushed the boundaries of technology. Aircraft like the Vulcan were instrumental in enabling the RAF to uphold the fragile peace that characterized the Cold War era. On 17 August 1966, the only prototype to have flown of Britain's most advanced aircraft project was towed down this road. It flew just 24 times, and the PS200 million that had been spent on its research and development, was eventually to be reduced to just 50,000 pounds worth of scrap. This is an aircraft graveyard at Shoeburyness in Essex, where once proud aeroplanes are used as targets to test the effects of gunfire and shrapnel. Such was the fate of TSR-2 project can only be found in museums, standing as testimony to the decisions that sealed its fate. Conceived in the 1950s, designed and flown in the early 60s, the story of TSR-2 is one of technological triumph and human endeavor. It was an aircraft years ahead of its time. The years 1950 to 1957 would be described as the post-war golden age of the British aircraft industry. Shop floors were full of priority orders, resulting from the Korean War panic. Design offices were working flat out on a whole series of advanced operational requirements for the RAF and the Navy. The Farnborough airshows revealed a procession of advanced prototypes and piloted scale models of shapes to come. Then, in 1957, the Secretary of State for Defense, Duncan Sands, presented his defense white paper to Parliament, which called for the elimination of manned aircraft in favor of missile systems. This left Britain's aircraft industry and the Royal Air Force with just one key project to pursue, replacement of the highly successful and widely exported Canberra bomber. On the sort of aircraft we were looking at, we'd already looked at the idea of a specialised low-level bomber, and that was cancelled in early 1956, I think for quite good reasons as it was such a narrow role for an aircraft and we felt we still should go for low-level because we saw it as the only means of penetrating Soviet air defenses but equally we wanted it to be able to put on a reasonable performance altitude and I'm talking in a way between 40 and 60 thousand feet I say that because we visualize air operated engines or ordinary turbojets in other words we won't think of things And we called it Tactical Strike Reconnaissance Aircraft, hoping that that would convey the idea of our operational technique. Meanwhile, the Royal Navy had not been idle in identifying its requirement for a low-flying strike aircraft. In 1955, Blackburn Aircraft won the contract to develop the NA-39 Buccaneer, a twin-seat carrier-borne strike aircraft capable of flying under the enemy's surface vessel radar screen. The Navy had a powerful ally in Lord Louis Mountbatten, who was chief of the defense a defence staff and a lifelong naval officer, tried to persuade the RAF to opt for a modified version of the Buccaneer as the Canberra replacement. Whilst this would have helped to reduce the costs for the Navy and ultimately the Air Force, the RAF felt that the Buccaneer would not fulfil their requirements. The Buccaneer was an extraordinarily successful airplane. It was built for many fellow level work. But the point was that the IF didn't think it was, at that stage, was fast enough or good enough, high up. It was the only one with a bike there. And contrary to popular belief, and you may be very interested to hear this, that in 1956, I asked Barry Leight, who was then the chief designer of Blackbones, if he would very kindly produce a brochure for me on the NA39 for the Royal Air Force. And he did that, and we did consider it. It was very seriously considered. Matt Batten used to rather lie about that and say it never took any interest, but it was very seriously considered by the Air Force. Now I think the real tragedy is that the Tories should have had the sense to develop the Buccaneer into a strike reconnaissance aircraft for the Air Force, but the Air Force wouldn't agree to that. And Varrold Begg later told me that he thought that the decision to go for the TSR-2 was in a sense compensation to the Air Force for the government's decision to give the nuclear deterrent to the Navy. And Varadegh was head of the Navy. By March 1957, the RAF began to circulate its basic requirement under the title General Operational Requirement 339. The industry were to report back with designs and comments by January 1958. But in September 1957, the government dropped another bombshell on the industry. At Chelmech's house, the permanent secretary of the Ministry of Supply called a meeting of the heads of all the major aircraft companies and told them that following the 57 defense white paper, there was no certainty of further aircraft projects except GOR 339. He also told them that proposals would only be accepted from those firms who were prepared to collaborate together on the project. The government had effectively aimed a pistol at the industry's head. The message was amalgamate or die. The companies spent hundreds of thousands of man hours developing their concepts. Amongst them, Vickers Armstrong, who came up with a single and twin-engine version of their Type 571, which was to be based on the new concept of a fully integrated airframe, engine, equipment and weapons system. English Electric was the only British company to have built an operational supersonic aircraft in the Lightning. They proposed their P-17 provided with a VTOL capability by the P-17D from Shorts, who'd experience in vertical takeoff with their SC-1. The P-17 concept was a very, very good one. And if you look at the general arrangement drawings of it, superimposed on a picture of the TSR-2, you'll find that there's very little difference. The P-17 was to ride piggyback on the P-17D to give it a full vertical take-off capability. The P-17D, which was powered by no fewer than 70 engines, was to enable the P-17 to take off and land back on the platform in the air. The English Electric had got the measure of the supersonic bomber aspect absolutely right, but their solution to providing the short-field take-off and landing capability with this lifting platform, I think, would have been immensely difficult to do, very costly, and I had some doubts as to its practicability. I didn't think it would work. The P-17D was dropped after the RAF redefined their requirement as OR 343, based solely on the Vickers English Electric submissions. Initially, the enforced amalgamation of the two companies was not welcomed. Well frankly we thought it was absolutely wrong. We thought it was a misjudgment which would lead to cost overrun, delays, unnecessarily complications in working out this very complex design which could much more easily have been done by one firm as a main contractor and if that one firm didn't have the total manufacturing capacity to cope with the whole program, then they should have subcontracted it out to the other parts of the industry that could take it on. English Electric had already 10 years experience in building supersonic military aircraft. No other firm in this country had. They had the Canberra behind them and they had a design known as the P-17 which was very close indeed to the specification which was put down subsequently for TSR-2. Nevertheless, the prime contract was given to Vickers. It's true to say that subsonic aircraft and a civil aircraft. The only military plane I think that they built was the Valiant Bomb, which had manifest structural faults in design and was in fact withdrawn after five years, so you could say it was a failure. And yet, in spite of the contrast between the two firms' experience and capability, they were told to and i'll go back to and the prime contract was given to because i think it was mistaken english electric uh... were regarded by the rest of the industry uh... uh... newcomers uh... the great names hawkers to have loans because bristol's have been companies existing to a way back uh... to world war one and even earlier uh... english electric the name english electric only came into the general public view after World War II. They had built very successfully a range of Hamden and Halifax bombers under license from Andy Page during the war. And then on the basis of that, a new design team was formed in 1945, specifically to design and build for the RAF its first jet bomber, the Canberra. We were, English Electric were regarded as newcomers by the rest of the industry and I think slightly resented for that. By any standards at that time, TSR-2 was to be the most advanced aircraft in the world. It was to be capable of around Mach 1.1 at 200 feet and Mach 2 at medium and high altitudes with a radius of action of 1,000 nautical miles. The aircraft would need a completely new, fully automatic radar system, more advanced than anything else in existence, including terrain-following and sideways-looking radar with automatic updating of data. It was to be capable of taking a full reconnaissance fit, operate from short strips in all weather and provide everything from long-range nuclear strike to battlefield support. No self-defense weapons were initially proposed although there was a provision to carry four air-to-surface rockets. The government's choice of the Bristol Siddeley Olympus engine was a controversial decision and was to lead to delays and massive cost overruns. We were strongly in favor of a Rolls-Royce engine, not least because we considered that the Bristol Olympus development wasn't far ahead and that we would end up with a in the classic situation which should be avoided in aircraft development, that's a new design of airplane with a new design of engine right from flight one. That complicates the issues wherever you can, you should combine a new airplane with a well-proven engine. Rolls-Royce at that day, they didn't want all these aircraft succeed with Bristol engines and this is before Rolls-Royce bought up Bristol. The TSR-2 was going to have a form of the Bristol Pegasus. And this really didn't suit Rolls-Royce at all at the time. Undoubtedly, the development costs of the Olympus were a big factor in the escalating costs of the program. But much worse than that, in my view, was the unreliability of the engine. We did actually, to use a phrase I have just used, arrive at a classic situation where we had a brand new untried airplane with an engine which was not only unproved, it hadn't passed its airworthiness type test, but it actually had a known catastrophic failure on it which put the TSR-2 prototype at risk when we started flying. Problems with the engine would prove difficult to resolve and were not identified until after the first flight. The Vulcan Olympus flying testbed would later blow up whilst taxiing. The government placed the contract for nine pre-production aircraft with the Vickers English Electric Consortium in October 1960, more than 18 months after the contract had first been announced. In spite of mounting opposition from the Navy and the Treasury, Britain's most ambitious aircraft project yet devised had been given the go-ahead. Bickers, under Sir George Edwards, was to be the prime contractor and responsible for the front fuselage section, which included the cockpit, weapon systems and budget control. English Electric, led by its chief designer, Freddy Page, was to concentrate on the aerodynamics, wings, tail and rear fuselage. From an early stage the consortium responded to the project's critics in Whitehall by illustrating their design philosophy, as seen in this film extract presented by their chief project engineer Ollie Heath. With a tailplane so designed as to release the whole of the wing for flat blowing, the provision of adequate thrust to weight ratio secured by powerful Olympus 22R engines giving a thrust to weight ratio of 0.6. The requirement for rudimentary field operation by large wheels which despite the requirements for low cross-sectional area are stowed within the aeroplane without drag penalty. The crosswind requirements met by the large parachute which of course also confers the short landing facility. The advanced technology of the aircraft was mirrored in the complexity of the manufacturing, which was to employ new working practices and advanced materials. Other problems relating to project management control would lead to delays. One of the most delaying aspects of the program was that many of the subcontractors were working directly with the ministry and not under the control of the central management organization that is BAC. This led to complications, misunderstandings and inevitable delays. I remember one famous occasion when I, one of the committees that I attended of industry and the ministry officials and civil servants from the establishments and elsewhere, the chairman took a look around the room when we started in St. Giles Court, long room, full of cigarette smoke and battered cups of tea, and he took a look around the room, he said, I want a count taken. And there was a head count taken at this meeting, and there were 58 people in the room. And the chairman quite reasonably said, this is quite ridiculous, nobody could control a program with meetings this size. I want you all to go away, and the next meeting is convened for such and such a date, and I want to see a significant reduction in the numbers at that meeting. In due course we all came back to the reconvened meeting and there were 61 in the room. The ministry for instance annexed control of the cockpit layout, I think arbitrarily at some point, and there was a civil servant in the ministry who was in charge and I quote, as far as the government was concerned. But there are a lot more to it than that. I think that the contractor had a seat on his committee, but that didn't represent control either. In my own experience, we had cockpit committee meetings which spent days not only trying to decide where one particular switch should go, but what the caption should be under the switch. And then they decided, against the advice of the operators, in that case me, to put a caption under a vital switch, which made no sense to the aircrew at all, and eventually before we flew it had to be changed. And this is a typical example of the very simple, silly delays that occurred in the program. In the United States, the advanced technology and potential of TSR-2 had been a source of concern and progress of the project had been closely monitored. They sent a team over from the Pentagon in 1960 under an official called Cortland Perkins, and they expressed, they went all over the TSR-2 building, they expressed enormous enthusiasm, they let the British Aircraft Corporation, they let them understand that they would be interested in purchasing. They were nothing of the kind. They were interested in finding out what was going on in order to adapt it into their own version, which came much later and much less successfully, the F-111. Now, I don't blame the Americans. Well, I think it's become very clear since those days that the Americans were primarily very worried about the emergence of TSR-2 to the military air supremacy that they were aiming to establish with their F-111, swing wing, low-level attack airplane, which was designed for a very similar role to TSR-2. Early in 1960, American industry was asked what at the time seemed impossible. It was asked to design an airplane that would fly faster at any altitude than any existing fighter. It was behind it in time. It ran into enormous technical problems. It overran its cost predictions very greatly. But we know that the Americans thought that the TSR-2 was a threat, that if we had been as successful with TSR-2 as we had been with its predecessor, the Canberra, which was so good if you remember that the Americans themselves bought the Canberra. I think they saw the TSR as a threat to their potential worldwide interest in exporting military airplanes and they were very anxious to get rid of it. The Australians, who had also purchased the Canberra bomber, found themselves in a similar position to the RAF in looking for a suitable replacement. I think the Australians needed to replace their Canberras, and therefore, as I say, they looked a bit and said, what are you doing? You must be replacing yours. I made two visits to Canberra with teams from British Aerospace to make presentations on the TSR-2 program, during which we understand that they were planning to acquire 30 airframes. Royal Air Force was planning to have 150 and this 30 would have been a nice addition to and made the production run really stable. During the early part of was the year in which the aeroplane first flew, we understood that the Australian government had virtually signed up for a contract with TSR-2. After more than five years work, the first prototype, XR-219, was transported in sections to the Aircraft and Armament Experimental Establishment at Boscombe Down in Wiltshire, where it would take three months to assemble. The choice of Boscombe Down as the site of the flight test program was a compromise solution. English Electric's base at Wharton in Lancashire would have been an ideal support and maintenance base. Vickers had wanted the first flight to take place from their airfield at Wisley. Rowland-Beamont argued that the Wisley runway was too short. Working from Buscombe Down would create more problems. Nobody really wanted us there, or they did their very best to help us, I must say. We didn't want to be there. We had the worst of both communication worlds. world, we were 150 miles from Moreton and 60 miles from Weybridge, where we ought to have been doing all that work on one base with all the experts just round the block. The sum total of delays and resultant cost increases that were plaguing the project meant the planned in-service date had to be put back. This news poured further fuel on the fire of mounting opposition from the project's critics. Mountbatten, perhaps TSR-2's most determined critic, was still pushing hard for the Buccaneer. He visited Australia and met their Defence Minister, Sir Frederick Sherger. He said that it would, he went round the place saying that it was absolutely what the Air Force wanted and everybody knew this and he used to go around with a briefcase with models, with one model of the TSR-2 and five of the Buccaneers and put them on the table in front of people like Sherco in Australia and say you can have five of these for one of those, so why do you bother? Mountbatten, to the best of my knowledge, told them they wouldn't be coming into service or certainly poured cold water on it. The Australians listened to this. By the time we started flying in August, we had been given to understand that the Australians were almost certainly shifting and going for the F-111. I'm sure they would have bought the GSR2 had it gone ahead. The newly assembled and freshly painted TSR-2 was wheeled out in September 1964 to commence Roland Biemont and other members of his flight test team still had nagging concerns about the unresolved engine and undercarriage problems. The continuing build-up of political pressure and adverse media criticism was heightened by the looming general election, with the ruling conservative government looking set to lose. Meanwhile a meeting was convened at Boscombe D'Arc. In view of the October election and the Labour Party's uncertain support for the project, the question on everybody's lips was, when could TSR-2 make its first flight? A successful flight before the election might prove critical to the project's survival. The chief project test pilot was faced with a very difficult decision. He was well aware of the dangers of an engine failure and of the consequences of cancellation. a leaking. Don Bowen, my observer, backseater, and I were the people on whom the total responsibility of this enormous pyramidal organisation were going to fall on flight one. But it wasn't a sudden precipice to go over. We'd been doing taxi trials on the airplane, testing all its systems out on the ground. We'd taxied it up to take-off speed, tested the parachute brakes, and all the rest of it. By the time we were ready to fly on that day, I had any doubts about the capability of the airplane that had long since gone. I was very confident plane had long since gone, I was very confident that it was going to fly well. It's an extraordinarily good moment when you turn onto the runway, you call for clearance to go, you get clearance from the tower, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, brakes off. You light the reheat and go, and from then on you know exactly what it's supposed to do, and your task is just to be totally alert to see if it doesn't do what it's supposed to do. It's a fascinating moment, it's a professionally enormously satisfying, and then when you come airborne and you find this new device actually performs as well as predicted or even We scheduled to fly the TSR-2 first flight for 30 minutes. We in fact flew for 27 minutes. Halfway through that, at the end of the first circuit round Boscombe, I had formed the opinion that this was far more than a questionable airplane. This was a brilliant first attempt at getting this complex airplane right. It was so good and so right on flight one, after 10 minutes, that I was enjoying the sensation of just relaxing and feeling this is a marvellous airplane. I felt I'd been there before. So The first flight had demonstrated the potential of the aircraft, but for technical reasons it was not to fly again until the very last day of the year. In the meantime, there had been a change of government. On the 16th of October, the results of the polls confirmed the predicted Labour win. Out went the Tories and with them went government backing for TSR2. The fate of TSR2 was now in the hands of the new Labour administration. I'm certain they were evasive and I looked at the Labour Party manifesto to see whether it about it just the other day and it's pretty uninformative. It attacked the government of course for the way in which the aviation industry had been handled in the previous 10-13 years, that standard stuff. But it didn't contain any real commitment to the TSR-2 in particular. And I think in Preston there was some promise put about in the campaign that the SO2 would be safe under Labour, but I don't think there was any other indication that they were committed to it and they were, as I say, I think pretty evasive. Yes, well we ran into a number of unexpected problems in Boston, D.C. First of all, it was planned that I should fly it for the first four or five flights until I was satisfied with its handling qualities because you have continuity of experience. The more you fly a new type of airplane, obviously the safer the flying becomes because you're on a learning curve. On flight two we had a very severe vibration problem. We had it again on flight three, which was an engine associated problem or engine system associated problem. And then on flight five we had a major undercarriage malfunction which could have lost us the prototype. It was actually an abandoned aircraft case had we chosen to take that road. But in consultation with Don Bowen in the back, I said, okay Don, this is your opportunity to try out Martin Baker, that was the ejection seat. And he said, what are you going to do, B? And I said, I think I'm going to try and manage it. And there's a long pause from the back, and he said, you're not going to get rid of me that easily, I'm staying. And so we landed it with the undercarriage at the wrong place. There were a number of problems with the undercarriage. The first one we encountered was sequencing. The undercarriage was not carrying out the correct sequencing in raising and lowering, and that took some time to get right. The next one was that it was a long, what's known as a long-stroke undercarriage to absorb this great shock. This in fact resulted in it being quite flexible fore and aft, and from the first landing onwards we found when we touched the ground. It caused vibrations to run right through the airframe and to reach the crew area, the cockpit in the nose of the airplane, as a very powerful lateral oscillation. You had an oscillation which was about the same rate as the natural frequency of the human eyeball. So, the moment you touched, I do stop being able to see the runway for a fraction of a second. The very nature of test flying will invariably throw up the occasional dramatic moment. That was a one-off. It was a pilot on his first flight on the airplane. He hadn't quite understood the dynamics of the airplane, and he got his approach slightly wrong, and he touched down at a very high rate of descent. When we got to flight 20, I think it was, up at Wharton, we were clear of all the minor snags on the aeroplane and we thought now's the time to get on to curing this, or investigating this undercarriage problem. The first thing to do was to measure the difference between touching down on a dry runway and touching down on a very reduced coefficient of friction runway, low mu. That was obtained by getting the fire brigade to spray foam on the runway and Jimmy Darnall touched down on the foam with the on-board vibration sensors measuring the vibration set up at that point, and they were then directly compared with the similar vibrations caused on touching down on a dry runway. That was all part of the research to get that one right. It became apparent that the next and vital stage of the flight development of the airplane was going to need expertise, knowledge and facilities which didn't exist at the Weybridge end of the consortium. They existed in large measure at Wharton, and this type of aeroplane was right within Wharton's expertise. So it gradually became apparent in the management of the program that thinking changed towards moving the first prototype and the subsequent flight development, which was going to be at least three years and 3,500 hours of testing, in total up to Wharton, under the charge of Freddie Page, who was the chief designer. Flight 14 was not simply a return home. Roland Beemont, having satisfied himself that the aircraft was performing as planned, took TSR-2 supersonic for the first and only time. Engaging reheat on just one engine, the acceleration was such that he left Jimmy Dell behind, even though he had engaged full reheat on both Avon engines of his Lightning. This new aeroplane was, despite its difficulties, despite its management problems, despite the rather unpleasant and hazardous faults that had occurred in some of the first few flights, it was now showing itself to be a tremendous aeroplane. It was going to be a wonderful aeroplane. It was already extraordinarily satisfying to fly as a professional. And I had been looking forward enormously to shaking the dust of Boscombe off my feet figuratively and flying this airplane back to my own base where even the voice of the air traffic controllers were my friend. And we flew back into that environment. We brought it home and now we were going to get on with it and no holds barred. A very good feeling. 17 aircraft that formed the development batch were in varying states of readiness at the factories. The second prototype, XR-220, was at Boscombe Down and programmed for its first flight on the 6th of April 1965. But the gathering momentum of opinion against the project had become unstoppable. I can't be sure when the decision was taken in Cabinet, but the decision was taken in the relevant Cabinet committee on the same occasion as we decided to cancel the P.1154 and the transport aircraft. But Wilson was very frightened because there was much more public interest in the TSR-2 than the other aircraft, to put it in the same package. So he asked us to delay it until the budget in April. And that's when the formal decision was taken and announced. He called the contractors at midday to the ministry on the day in which cancellation was to be announced in the budget debate and he told them that it was going to be cancelled. So immediately they did what any reasonable person would, they requested permission to ring up their workforce, to ring up their factories and to warn everybody everybody, themselves, rather than allow them to learn about this frightful blow in their lives over the radio or the newspaper. And Roy Jenkins refused. He said it was a budget secret. Quite extraordinary. And we never got a satisfactory explanation of why it was done that way. And I still don't understand why it was done that way because we put it rid of it, which is an insult to the house to make an announcement in that particular form where there was no possibility of questioning at all. Well it was just a feeling of inevitability, we'd been struggling, we'd put every possible effort, and when I say we I mean the whole workforce, all the engineers, the air weather people, administrators backing it all up, had been working on an all-hours basis. There was no knock-off time. You worked on through the night. Leave was cancelled. Family arrangements were disrupted. Tensions developed in families because husbands were overworked, overstressed. This had been going on for years. I think there was a tremendous feeling of letdown initially. It was a terrible disappointment to a lot of people who were thoroughly committed to the project, which was just beginning to fly and literally taking off. Everybody who was concerned with the efficiency of the Air Force's needs. That was the first thing. Secondly, its cost had tripled in the four years before I got in. Its time of delivery had extended by three years, and there was no guarantee they'd have kept to the cost and timing as I was given it. Well, I think the nail in the coffin, the sort of trigger reason, was when the Australians refused to buy it and opted for the American plane at the beginning of 1964. In order not to waste all the knowledge and the potential knowledge to be gained from these things, and also of course with an eye on trying to keep people in employment, not only in our factories but in the component factories and suppliers, we put forward a program to the ministry within two weeks of cancellation proposing that the two prototypes should be kept on I think a 100 hour test and development program for research into the future Concorde test program. They're very similar types of aeroplanes. Much valuable information will be gained and I think we put it forward on the basis of a fixed price contract. We were asking for one and a half million pounds to do 100 hours of detailed, concentrated research. Well, Roy Jenkins said, that means it must cost at least two million, and in my experience you've got to double that, and that means four million, and that's too much. So there was a complete shock. Following the cancellation came one of the most bizarre episodes in the history of British aviation. For some, it appeared that the cancellation of TSR-2 was not enough. Orders were given to destroy everything. the The massive publicity that was given, obviously with official blessing, to operatives in our factories who had actually built these airframes, dragging them out onto the tarmac, shoving oily rags in them and setting fire to them, particularly to the magnesium areas which weren't like a hollow hole. I think it's the most shameful aspect of this sad story. There is no sort of reason whatsoever except what you could really describe as a selfish determination to ensure that that airplane would never be built under any other circumstances or in the future. I never heard anybody connected with this project who was other than shocked by this decision. I can't tell you who took it, but the finger must point at the government in one department or other. Well, it wasn't ordered by me, I can tell you that. Absolutely not. And I don't think it was ordered by Roy Jenkins, who was the only other minister who would have had a say. I know then that I just had the immense, dramatic task of inviting some hundreds of my staff to consider the fact that they were going to be made redundant. And all these dedicated people of high skills were just shown their cards and many of them went to America of course. In America, in 1964, the F-111 was taking shape. Following meetings with Defence Secretary Robert McNamara, Dennis Healey had become convinced that the F-111 would fulfil the RAF's requirements, whilst being cheaper and in service earlier than TSR-2. Events would prove him wrong, as this project also ran into problems of delay and spiralling costs, a fact that the Australians would later come to pay dearly for. Whilst Dennis Healey was talking to McNamara, Prime Minister Wilson was meeting President Johnson to discuss a number of areas of mutual interest. Wilson wanted US backing for the pending loan from the IMF. The thinking back in Britain was that the Americans had extracted a heavy price for their support by demanding the cancellation of TSR2. I don't think international diplomacy operates quite so crudely as that. We wanted good relations with the Americans, but there was never any suggestion in my mind that a condition for having IMF support. The Americans wanted a variety of things. They wanted to sustain sterling as a sort of auxiliary currency to the dollar. The IMF had already decided a week earlier to give us the loan we needed, and we got the necessary loan from other governments as well, so that didn't enter into discussions in any way. They wanted us to maintain East of Suez Road, which would share a world road with us, and and they were quite keen to, not specifically that we should cancel the TSR2, but they would like us to buy the F111, for exactly the same reason that we would like the Australians to buy the TSR2. Britain did order the F111, but ironically the deal would later fall victim to exactly the same problems that plagued TSR-2's cancellation had caused. What we had to do when it was removed from the programme was to start innovating, improvising, and making good the shortfall, and of course what we did was to re-plan and reprogram and retrain the V-force so that it could go low-level for part of its attacks. That was one of the moves that we put on the board in order to make good efficiency of the TSR-2. is probably an example and it's wrong to lay down the law on the matter when you don't know all the facts and haven't got access to all the books and records. But I think it is an example and we've seen far too many of them before and since and even to this day of British governments not seeming to value the importance of a thriving aerospace industry. I think what was the case was that I and maybe some other people too, Chancellor Jim Callaghan, George Burnham, who was first Secretary of State, thought and I think thought with some justification that the aircraft industry was consuming too large a proportion of our research and development resources, and also that it was too keen, for understandable reasons, not unworthy reasons, it was too keen on sort of breaching the frontiers of knowledge on aircraft design, rather than concentrating on making and selling planes which it could make and sell. Well, nobody in, it's 30 years now, and nobody has ever in that time given me a clear and reasonable explanation of why it was cancelled. I called my book the murder of TSR II and that I believe is exactly what happened. Though to put your finger precisely on the murderer is less easy, there were a good many. It was August 17th, 1966 when the fuselage arrived. Previously to that, two or three days before that, we'd had a couple of TSR wings arrived here at Tubin S, White City. They all came in bit by bit, and we then proceeded to build it up until the state that it is on that picture behind me on our apron. It was quite a showpiece. It was a beautiful aircraft. It was way ahead of its time, so we was informed. And I personally think it was a criminal act to get rid of it as it was done. But it was our job in them days to destruct, to test the vulnerability of fuselages, systems, wings, anything like that. That is our job. Unfortunately, the TSR was one of them. And when she finally met her death here, there were several of us that was very, very sad. And we remember very well to this day. We have got one or two little bits and pieces of her still remaining, but nothing of any size or bulk. The only one that flew, she was destroyed, which I feel very sad about. In the end, TSR-2 fell victim to the many factors that conspired against it. Politics, both national and international, inter-service rivalry, and an unwieldy management structure all ensured that delays and escalating costs became inevitable. If the cancellation of the project was the result of a callous political decision, then TSR-2 was also a victim of its own ambition. I think it was a bridge too far. I think it was a very ambitious, expensive, and at the same time extremely capable military aeroplane, which was perhaps too far advanced for our Air Force and our Ministry of Procurement to cope with. The concept was probably too great for them. They hadn't grown up. They should have done. You know it's all been done since. And we'd gone a long way to doing it then. But this was actually fundamentally lack of faith in the ability of our aircraft industry to produce those sort of goods. We were in fact leading the world at the time, but the actions of the politicians made sure we would never do it again. You. So, you Aviation, the art of aeronautics, began with the dreamers, inventors and daredevils who dared to defy gravity. The journey of aviation was nurtured by pioneers like the Wright brothers, whose first flight marked a historic milestone. The role of aircrafts in world wars was groundbreaking, dramatically changing warfare strategies. This initiated a technological evolution in aviation, transforming the simplistic wings of a biplane into the thunderous roar of jet engines. Let's journey through the ages of aviation. Behind every great aircraft there were great minds. These visionaries, like Sir Frank Whittle, the innovator of the turbojet engine, redefined air travel. Then there's Skunk Works' Kelly Johnson, the genius behind the SR-71 Blackbird. His designs combined speed, stealth and power, crafting machines that dominated the heavens. The contributions of these pioneers have left an indelible mark on the canvas of aviation, shaping the course of history and inspiring generations of engineers and aviators. Each epoch in aviation history gave birth to extraordinary aircrafts, each with their own unique features and roles. The Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird was a marvel of speed and stealth. The F-105 Thunderchief, a supersonic fighter bomber, was vital in the Vietnam War. The P-51 Mustang, a long-range fighter, was critical in World War II. The P-47 Thunderbolt, a heavyweight fighter, was used extensively in the same war. The A-10 Thunderbolt II, the Warthog, is a close air support icon. The Messerschmitt Me 262 marked a leap forward in aviation technology. Each of these game changers were instrumental in their eras, and their legacies still resonate today. Beyond the game changers, there are those that have transcended their practical roles to become icons. The Concorde was not just an aircraft, it was a supersonic symbol of luxury and speed. The B-52 Stratofortress, a strategic bomber, is an icon of power and resilience. These magnificent machines, and others like them, have become much more than just aircrafts. They are enduring icons that encapsulate the audacious spirit, the relentless innovation and the boundless ambition that define the world of aviation. For more amazing aerial footage, and to join us in this incredible journey, check out the Dronescapes YouTube channel. If you enjoyed this video, please remember to like and subscribe. And as always, thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. So, So, you