On March 7, 2011, the broke the speed of light. Or more specifically, they found a way of transferring information of fiber optic internet and in doing so made an obscene amount of money They hadn't discovered but rather repurposed a with towers so ubiquitous you'll probably pass one of It's called Long Lines They carried transcontinental phone calls, live streamed the Moon landings, delivered us dial-up internet, Today, we're going inside the network to discover what secrets it may hold. (stirring instrumental music) Connecting together the widely distributed population centers of America Early telephone relied on copper cables with a switchboard operator manually connecting the That worked fine inside of cities, but as soon as you wanted things got difficult. Snaking those cables up and down mountains was a massive pain. On top of that, each wire meaning that you had to bundle in a fat wad to get any Even so, congestion In 1945, the end of World War and booming business, driving the need for a coast-to-coast that actually worked. Initially, the engineers at Bell Systems were going to just add but soon came up with a better idea. A network of towers and into the first ever The first problem was that could go the distance. The further the signal could travel, then the fewer towers needed to be built, reducing the time and cost For the same input power, a signal can be received further away if all of its energy is A simple rod antenna That's fine for radio, If you add in some side supports, we can reflect the signals in And if we make them in then we can produce an extra-tight beam. Initially, Long Lines used square horns, but as manufacturing tech developed, a conical version rose to dominance that was better able to By adapting these designs, the Long Lines' horn antenna into a narrow one-degree beam capable of being detected On a typical station such as an upstream receiver, downstream receiver, and Plotting them out, you in 50-kilometer intervals. Their zigzag ensures that doesn't affect the others down the line. The next issue was how to make the network support thousands of simultaneous calls. Not an easy feat when you've Traditionally, a telephone of your voice vibrate a drum, moving a magnet within a wire coil, inducing an electric current. The current then moves to recreate the original sound. That's dead simple to build, but you can only carry one call per line. Radio stations operate on but do the actual transmission bit by having the low-frequency voice modulate a much higher carrier frequency. To avoid interference, nearby stations have to use different carriers, and you can tune into whatever by just cutting into is the relevant one. Long Lines could have worked by using lots and lots of antennas, each transmitting their own but that would have ended than laying copper in the first place. Instead we use something Basically like a prism into a rainbow and a rainbow You start out with multiple calls and then modulate them to Then the multiplexer You transmit the multiplexed receive it with another and demodulate to get back You can multiplex basically any medium. Copper and radio support but microwave can do 7,000. The only drawback to using was that occasionally they'd end up frying an unsuspecting pigeon. (bird squawks) All that processing takes place basically a bunker Signals come in and are which demultiplex them, check do a bit of clean up, and send them on. This is the actual antenna component. It takes in signals via coax cable, electrical energy turns with the radiating element, brings it out of the and then all the way up to With the technical it was time to build the network. New York, Boston, and Chicago After the war, steel was in short supply, so this first batch of towers are made almost exclusively of concrete. However, by 1955, improvements made prefabbed metal and they soon bloomed across the Midwest. As the Cold War warmed up, the government realized the importance of secure long-distance communications, and pressured AT&amp;T for with hardened nuke-proof antennae. Still growing, the network Massive hubs were built, as much for aesthetics After 15 years and 2,000 America called for telecom. (stirring instrumental music) By the 1970s, the network was carrying more than a million long-distance and prices fell from the down to just five. On top of that, you could not just in the major cities. Soon, TV was getting in on the action, and networks streamed Moon landings, and Watergate. In the days of dial-up, Long Lines was the internet. And the reason it sounds so weird is because it was using and technology as a regular phone call. Things couldn't last, though, and Long Lines ended up being With all the money they were making, AT&amp;T reinvested it in Things like TV satellites and fiber optic replaced these major use cases. A single fiber cable can now carry more than a billion simultaneous calls, or, yeah, about one YouTube video. Slowly, the network was abandoned with the very last tower going offline in the December of 1992. That would have been the end that these towers were built in some of the most strategic high up on hills with views all around, and bunkers built to survive Armageddon. Near cities, often cell phone equipment is bolted onto the side, they're used as relay A couple have even been However, a few had an even Dan Mannisto always However, after realizing could pay significantly he switched his attention The United States has two the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, separated by 1,100 kilometers. If you can make a trade in New York based on information gleaned in Chicago, and you're the first one to then you can make a guaranteed profit. In 2007, Dan was brought in to with a goal of turning into nanosecond improvements He wrote good code, but soon realized that the real profits were to be made if you could beat the competition outright with a faster link. By the mid-2000s, the accepted way of sending telecommunications was to use fiber optic cable, and the way of beating your competition was to take a shortcut through something that they'd gone around, like blasting a hole through often at the inconvenient cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. Dan's firm didn't have so instead he was tasked with in order to put together an optimal route. According to the speed of light, you should be able to do that However, nothing Dan could find was doing it faster than seven. The way fiber optic works is down a piece of glass, due to total internal reflection. That only works because is going much slower than on the outside, and it's this difference when it reaches the interface. That's great if you but not so good for a high-speed link. If instead, you could send microwaves through the atmosphere, then you could get a guaranteed speed-up, leapfrogging the competition. Working in secret, Dan and hired engineers whose first jobs had been working on the and were now well into retirement. The original AT&amp;T monopoly into smaller monopolies. And by working with those, Dan was able to rent space on their towers. A couple came from the although others had been Two years and $9 million and latency dropped down to just 4.2. The company raked in profit to the tune of half a and to everyone else, it looked like Dan had just broken the speed of light. Of course, they eventually caught on and started building their own links. And today, microwave is The spirit of Long Lines lives on. (pulsing electronic music) For a time, Long Lines carried but today stand a silent vigil amongst the infrastructure Of course, from the Great and our modern metropolis, if you know where to look. This has been James Dingley Keep Looking Up. (stirring electronic music) (flag flapping) Ahoy there. It is I, Captain Sailout. Long Lines brought mass and with it, media conglomerates with the ability to rock Many a sailor has been lost taken avast by pretty Fortunately, we have Ground Ground News is a website that trolls the ocean of modern media, gathering stories from around the world and across the political spectrum. They compare stories for their factuality, who is paying their dues, and looks at what biases they might have. One June 9th, 2024, Ernest was discovered 390 meters beneath the frigid waters In the proceeding week, 120 articles were On the left, Gizmodo focuses on the explorer, Ernest Shackleton. The central government And to the right, 9News focuses on the profoundly moving who were actually making the discovery. See how depending where you could have a different perspective. To chart your own course in a way that's free of bias, sign over to ground.news/atomicfrontier and use my link for 40% That's the one I use. Supporting them supports my