One of the things that keeps me up at night is the rate of increase in technology spend. And we know CIOs listening are very rigorously focused on expense management. It seems like it's always budget time in the CIOs life, right? And now with AI, even more so. Welcome to CIO Corner. Today I'm fortunate to be joined by James Shira, CIO at PwC, the second largest professional service network in the world that consults companies on AI integration. James, thanks for joining me today. Hey, Juan, thanks for having me. Give me a little bit of a sense as to how you in PwC are using, taking advantage of AI. We're really focused on how can we create and promote greater efficiency using AI. And that clearly for us is going to be a pattern-centric approach -- patterns of business processes to really help inform the application of AI. In the case of AI, what we're saying at PwC is if you allow it to be a niche-based strategy rather than a pattern-based strategy, you're going to end up potentially sub-optimizing that investment. Absolutely. And I like the way that you've described it. We for a long time have been, you know, promoting the whole notion of design thinking and process thinking. Yeah. When it comes to AI, having the mindset of, you know, process pattern thinking, I think is going to be really critical, especially as we are held accountable to having a return on investment at the end of the day with improving these technologies to improve processes. Can you give us a sense, you know, given the complexity and cost of AI like we're talking about, how does Salesforce measure ROI with your investments? It's an interesting question because I look at it from two perspectives, James. One is, of course, for us since we build AI into our products now, and the last round of development has all been around what we call Agentforce, the implementation of agents to support multiple tasks and business processes, we do know and believe that those technologies would lead to a return on investment for our customers. On the other side, I'm also customer zero, so I get the opportunity to bring those technologies into Salesforce and use them here. Some of the things that we're doing, we implemented our early version of agents for sales not too long ago. It's a really interesting case because what that particular technology did is it actually enabled our sales executives, our account executives, to more quickly get information specific to an account or specific to an engagement with a customer, reducing the amount of time that they spent trying to search and find information. And, James, they self-reported 25 to 30% improvement in their own productivity as they started using these tools much more effectively. And we're capturing now that information much more effectively to be able to demonstrate that return on investment. What are the top three things that you are considering within PwC? This is not necessarily for your clients, but for you your organization. the top three things that you're considering when you're building now your AI strategy for PwC? Well, thank you for that, Juan. So look, first and foremost, you have to start with the outcome in mind. I think you have to really be, you have to bring a perspective about what you're trying to drive. Secondly, what are the ancillary or adjacent architectures that facilitate AI? I'm probably spending right now the majority of my time on that piece and how to look prospectively out. We're in the process of updating our technology strategy for the next four, six, eight years, working at the leadership level, I'm spending a significant amount of time looking at our technology roadmap and evaluating how do I get the full benefit of an AI strategy across that roadmap? And it will, I think for us, mean a much higher degree of standardization in that stack than we've ever had. And then lastly, I'm thinking a lot about the availability of the tools, the cost, and where to have a point of view about development. And I can tell you one thing I don't want to repeat, and a lesson that personally I learned, and I think my team learned with the cloud transition we went through, is in the beginning of the cloud transition, we didn't focus enough on how we gated the development activities to consume the cloud that we were building one way. And the absence of that allowed people to go off and build code in their own way, not necessarily with the future cloud infrastructure in mind. And so then we had to retroactively go back and play clean up. And I'm just being transparent with the audience because I want them to understand that we learned through errors and mistakes just like everybody else. And that third point is a big lesson for me that I'm trying to apply prospectively to the AI roll-out. So how do we unlock value within our current run rate that comes through standardization? And then lastly thinking through how people are going to consume it in such a way that we build the ecosystem to facilitate that. And that's going to mean controls. We are in a business where our clients rely on the veracity of our controls. And so we start with that as one of those outcomes in mind. I wish I could take that piece and just share it with many of my business partners, cause they, the accessibility of gen AI has really made a lot of people think that implementing gen AI is just easy. And, you know, it just works, right? But what you said together with what you said earlier about enablement, enabling people to use these tools effectively, being in a position where you can actually manage, have some level of control, some level of governance around this technology. Yeah. Just because it's easily accessible, that doesn't go away. How are you advising Salesforce customers, on how they get value from AI? Well, I think a lot of it has to do with what you said at the start. It's the whole idea of determining those areas where AI can truly have a significant impact in the business -- to not go with this shotgun approach and have 100 implementations of AI where many will actually deliver nothing at the end of the day. So that's one. Be focused. The second one, which has been really important to me, in fact, I was just going through this discussion with the leadership team yesterday. It's very important that we select those areas where we think we're going to get the most benefit and value, and we stick with them, that we don't abandon them right away because the AI didn't provide the outputs or outcomes that we were expecting. This technology is still evolving, right? And I think we are going to continue to see improvements over time that will lead to those types of,= improvements and gains. So those are two key things that I'm really communicating actively. My team is all in on the notion of implementing agents, but we've got to be smart as to how we implement them and where we implement them to generate the most value for the company. We, to your point, have limited resources, right? Which really leads to something I was going to ask you: as you start now thinking about next year and you start thinking about your allocation of resources and effort, how are you going about putting money into AI for next year? Our role as CIOs, as I think any executive role, is to manage the bottom line. And so, one of the things we tell our clients, and we manage our business the same way, is how can we promote demonstrating that a given assumption about an investment is actually being validated. And we all know from years of experience in technology, I'm probably dating myself a little saying that, that in previous technical changes that we've gone through, a lot of times it took multiple years to start really seeing the benefit. And people were struggling initially with adoption, think cloud, think other things. In the case of AI, what I find unique Juan is that the price point all the way at the beginning of the change that we're going through is so understandably high, given the underlying hardware requirements. And so what we're doing is we're relentlessly focused on a broad deployment. We've now deployed to more than 100,000 people around the world. But beyond that, we're actually testing for utilization, and we're looking for benefit realization. And we're challenging ourselves each time we explore the introduction of new models, how are we going to see the flow down in terms of the outcomes we're promoting? And that goes back to that patterns point. Now, PwC, and you know, I'm one of your clients, PwC has put a significant amount of investment on generative AI. In fact, you announced that you were planning on investing over a billion dollars in gen AI efforts. I know that that didn't all go to you. I know that. No chance. But you know, you now have had an opportunity to see gen AI solutions in your clients as well. What lessons have you learned? Well, that was our 3 billion, or 1 billion over three years. Pardon me. I just made a few heart rates increase when I fumbled on the 3 billion there. But it was 1 billion over three years. To help folks put the number in context, it's important to understand a few things. We're a large place as you mentioned in the intro, we're located all around the world and we're a people-based business. So every bit of technology we introduce has a probably higher proportionate cost initially than other business types. So I think that's important. Secondly, we're very relentlessly focused on training and improving our people -- people that have the, like myself, have the privilege to be a part of PwC for part of their career -- We don't view our people as a permanent asset of our business. Oftentimes, they're our future clients and they go on into other things elsewhere. And so we view the responsibility we have in their training. Lastly, as I mentioned also, we think our business is likely to be significantly changed through AI and therefore it's incumbent upon us to go early in some cases. I've tried to divide the strategy into two component buckets. One I call more of commodity-based AI, which is largely centered around repetitive activities, collaboration systems, for me and you, email -- things like that. And then I call it more higher-order complexity AI. In this case, we have an architecture we call chat PwC within which we're deploying not a single one vendor but multi multi-vendor architectures based on those patterns I spoke about earlier. But Juan, I'd be remiss if I didn't ask you a question. I'm aware that Salesforce has introduced Agentforce. Obviously we're one of the largest Salesforce customers in the world. So we keep a close eye on changes that you're making. Could you take a moment and walk us through how you see those AI agents impacting AI ROI for businesses? So, we are really betting much of our strategy moving forward on the whole notion of Agentforce and agents, where you as a CIO can very quickly on the Salesforce platform, with great data to your point, earlier using Data Cloud, be able to bring all these data together from all these different sources and be in a position where you can build agents quickly that can actually help you provide better service, better connect with customers, provide services and support to your employees. And these agents are really smart. They're not just your typical chatbot, right? That you ask a question, it goes and researches a specific answer and it gives it back to you. And then you get frustrated and you've got to call somebody. No, these agents have the ability to not only respond to your questions, but maintain a two-way dialogue and actually take action for you. I think that is going to be the most revolutionary side of agents. When you get to a point where in Agentforce, you have agents working with agents supporting each other, I think that the potential is unlimited. We can only see so far right now. But if you really wanted to expand in the whole notion of agents working together three, four, five years from now, I think that this technology will be, first, pervasive in the way that we build and manage technology, but secondly, James, I really believe that it's going to truly transform the way that people do work and engage. Yeah. Look, Juan, I agree. I do think we'd be remiss if we didn't double tap on a point, which is CIOs and technology leaders have got to drive the standardization point in their architecture to get, in my view, the full benefits. And one of the challenges that I know you've faced in your career and I face in mine, is there's so much incumbency in our install base and that incumbency is driving us in different directions. I think CIOs are going to have to continue to look for and make, along with business leadership, the hard decisions on standardization and to get the full flower, if you will, the benefit of AI. I agree, that resonates so much with me, James. You know, just recently in the discussion as to how we implement agents in our own enterprise, we were having this discussion: who builds the agent? It's a simple question, right? Well, should you have self-serve agent building capabilities? We believe that there's a space for that. Then should the IT organization build agents? Absolutely. There's a place for that. Should we have our partners like PwC be building agents constantly for us on our platform? I think that there's a place for that, as well. But to your point, if there's not an architectural and a security framework above all of this, we can create a lot of harm in the future. And we're working diligently on addressing that. I'm assuming you're doing the same. Can you give us an example of how Salesforce has focused on a core business process when piloting your new AI tools? Absolutely. We are actually in the middle of implementing agents in our customer service space. We want our customers when they go to the Salesforce webpage to request support or to request assistance, to actually be working with an agent that is much smarter than just the typical chatbot, right? So we are in the process of building that out. We think that although we have some pretty good containment rate when it comes to actually cases being moved over to humans at Salesforce, we believe that this technology is going to continue to help us improve in that containment approach. And most importantly, we think that the answers are going to be very, very, very good and effective and accessible to the point where our customers, when they have technology questions, they can just use that agent to get those answers for us to be able to help them take action on certain things and simplify that entire customer experience. So that's one. It's interesting because when I used to hear that some of these technologies were going to improve the overall productivity of IT by 25%, 30%. I got those emails too, by the way. You got them too, right? And and people were telling me, well, you should just build that into your business plan for next year. Well, I was kind of hesitant last year thinking that all of this was going to materialize to that point. But I'm starting to see these become a reality. In fact, in the last measurement cycle where we looked at the lines of code that were promoted to production, out of 60,000 lines that we promoted, we ended up with roughly 16,000 of those lines being generated by AI code generator. So, now did that materialize in a 26% improvement in productivity? I can't tell directly, but I can see these actually getting to a better state and truly improving our productivity. Given that CIOs have rated data as one of our top challenges, I'm trying not to smile when I when I say this, why do you think data is so crucial for AI? In the early days, when we were building Copilot, we tried the Copilots in front of our users. The Copilots were doing what they were supposed to, but the responses that we were getting back were really, in some cases, not complete enough. With our agents now, we're in a much better position. We could have actually improved the prompts we have that has helped significantly in this new generation of agents. But it all came back at the very end to the data. Yep. And I think it's a great way to really summarize how we are going to have to manage through this great AI revolution. It starts with data, making sure that you have accessibility to your data, making sure that that data is good data, making sure that you untrap data from all these different sources and bring it all together so that you can ultimately get better output. We have taken a very serious approach to building technology to support our customers with this problem. James, the Data Cloud strategy that we're implementing internally and that we're selling to our customers, I think for the first time in my career as a CIO gets closer to solving that huge problem of being able to bring data from all these different disparate systems that we still have to support and maintain. I'm bullish on AI, not because of the hype, which is cool and exciting. And I think I got a note from my mom when all this stuff hit the news, saying, &quot;are you going to lose your job because of AI?&quot; I was like, &quot;no, mom, it's going to be okay.&quot; I think and we think of it as an &quot;and&quot; strategy because I believe that there's a tremendous opportunity for technology professionals, wherever they are in their career journey, to embrace this change, use it as an &quot;and&quot; strategy, but don't lose sight of the fact that we've got to get the data piece, the architecture piece, and the others right? When you take agents and you have them working jointly with humans, it can definitely lead to just incredibly great improvements in our customer success, in our customer experiences, in our employee experiences. James, this has been amazing. I'm really grateful again that you did this. You shared just incredible insights that I think our audience will benefit tremendously from. Thanks for having me. And please check out the links in the description below and be sure to stay tuned for more episodes of CIO Corner.