Hey, have you heard? Tang Group recently A large amount of capital injection I heard that they are Tang Group Looks like it's going to be launched soon Miss Tang was Young Master Qin took a fancy to Last city only It's no surprise Tang family gains power Soaring into the sky We second-rate families You have to flatter me Welcome everyone from Tianzhou Family Representative Come celebrate my old man's birthday Poor hospitality I hope you can forgive me. Mr. Tang is too polite. Can come to the birthday party It's our honor My Yuntian Group Night Pearls for You Worth three million Please accept I, Zhu Jia, express my sincerity Special Offer A pair of suet jade Ruyi Worth five million Our Group Dedicated to Mr. Tang One lottery ticket Worth 8 million Good good good Thank you all Thanks Thank you for your birthday gift You guys are thoughtful Moon Take good care of you guys for me Today, I will let everyone Have a great time Tang Family Master Now the Tang family It is a high-spirited Unstoppable Big impact The power of Tianzhou's first family In the future we will More cooperation! That's natural Can my Tang family have Today's achievements I can't do without you Strong support Miss Tan is indeed The future heir of the Tang family Extraordinary conversation Beautiful face I don't know what kind of man Only worthy of Miss Tang That must have Prominent family background If it is Tianzhou again First-class young talents Make way I am Master Chu Fanfeng's wife Lin Yuqin's Fate Come to meet Miss Tang Tang Qiuyue fulfills her marriage contract Who is this bumpkin? Miss Tang is One of the two beauties of Tianzhou How could he follow Engaged to Miss Tang The eldest son of the Qin family It's coming soon He and Miss Tang That's a perfect match. A mutual understanding This kid is going to hit It's terrible at the gunpoint. Moon You know this guy? How could I know This country bumpkin Where did this wild boy come from? Even my daughter's Dare to take advantage of the bargain Security guard coming Engagement is here You Tang family still want Unable to deny Grandpa's marriage certificate This marriage certificate is real. What are you saying, old man? If this marriage certificate is real What about the Qin family? Grandpa, I want Married to Qin Shao How do you What's the hurry? This was only ten years ago Just an old agreement Can't count Can't count What does it mean? Brat You don't know yet? Now I am Tang family In the Heights Behind Tianzhou Business Leader Xiao Tairan is in charge Tianzhou First-class family Qin family marriage In the future, Tianzhou Maybe it can become The outer branches of Longmen As the head of the Tang family, Nature will not be destroyed My Tang family has a bright future Today, the Tang family has already Today is different from the past Far beyond my family If Tang Jiazhen Marrying into the Qin family Isn't it necessary again Go up a level Now let's say the Tang family has entered Tianzhou First-Class Family Not too much The Tang family has already selected a son-in-law Qin Family How could I possibly see it? This is from the mountain The poor boy who came out so what So I see you are a poor boy Quail Clothes Swan Face Poor It's just a Just a country bumpkin Even back then Your master Lin Yuqin Favored by me But it won't take me This precious granddaughter Back to you Such a useless person Wild Boy You said so much, old man. I want to regret the marriage. good You just happened to come today Then I will formally inform you The agreement between me and your wife Let's stop here My Tang Family break off an engagement Don You are really thick-skinned. A marriage contract made by oneself Can I still regret it? presumptuous My daughter's marriage This is no joke How could it be possible? You're a piece of waste paper Marry you that is Don't you look at you One's own virtue A toad wants to eat a swan No mirror Urine, right? I tell you, country boy Don't talk about my grandfather. I rejected you today Even my grandfather Promise you I, Tang Qiuyue, swear to death I won't marry you Such waste So this marriage My Tang Family Backed out Are you sure After this village But this store no longer exists. My Tang family is Tianzhou First-Class Family I, Tang Qiuyue, am The young generation of Tianzhou Outstanding The Proud Daughter of Heaven Chasing my They are all from first-class families. Young Master You are a country bumpkin. You don't deserve it I don't deserve it You don't deserve it. My Lord, I am right I didn't expect you, Tang family So ungrateful My Master's Wife Let me come Extend Tang Wanshan's life Extend life Give my father a life. Do you have that ability? Your master's wife cured me My father's illness What do you mostly rely on? Unfair folk remedies It was pure luck You are now relying on This little thing To repay a favor Typical villain behavior You're not worthy. What kind of gratitude are you talking about with my Tang family? that is You dare to take The safety of the old man To threaten our Tang family Dreaming Don't be here It's embarrassing. I am Tang Qiuyue I can't marry you My Lord, I originally Not interested in you I won't marry you at all Tang Qiuyue Now, my Lord Officially notify you You are my little master Rest You were divorced by me. Don't give yourself Find the stairs It's obviously you Low status The engagement was cancelled by our Tang family She actually said she would divorce my daughter You are dreaming Find a step for yourself I can't find a better reason. You and my daughter Yue'er It has nothing to do with What are the qualifications? Said he wanted to divorce her Our Yue'er is getting married It is one of the best in Tianzhou Young Talents Heir to a first-class family The Qin Family's Young Master Not you A useless person who only gets angry out of shame A third-rate family Just an heir You guys also praised me a lot What a bunch of frogs in a well. Chu Fan You are so shameless You are not needed here Get out of my birthday party immediately Even if you kneel down now Please let me stay I don't mind it either. Oh, by the way, old man Tang I gave you a chance. It's you who don't cherish Wait until you are paralyzed in bed When life is worse than death Don't come to ask me What did you say? What did you say dad That wild boy must be Get angry out of shame Deliberately irritating you Don't take it personally, Dad. Head of Longmen Medical Hall Gu Tianhe Meet the Holy Lord Meet the Holy Lord This is Longmen's people Looks pretty majestic Get up, everyone. Thank you, Lord Holy Lord Tomorrow is this Tianzhou The annual Dragon Gate Banquet Tianzhou's major families Will participate I would like to ask you For tomorrow Dragon Gate Feast Inscription To show the majesty of Longmen I wonder if the Holy Lord has time. that Will the Tang family also participate? Return to the Holy Lord As a newly-established The great family Also invited Then I'd like to see They are at the banquet See me It will be a What kind of expression Holy Lord Business leader Xiao Tairan Went to Zangjiao Temple to seek medical treatment but failed Now back to Tianzhou Find the Holy Lord to heal him Xiao Tairan has always Work for me in Tianzhou Do your best But he is terminally ill The medical skills of my subordinates are not good enough Nothing can be done Hope for the Holy Lord Healing Since he works for Longmen Then call him tomorrow. Come to the party. I will take action Heal him yes Subordinates understand Holy Lord You are new to Tianzhou Strange faces This seal is the Medicine King Seal See this print If you see me Convenient for you to do things in Tianzhou Subordinates resign The Tang family is a bunch of stupid roe deer I would never have thought of it. Master, it's you An unattainable existence Talking about city people Do you all wear that kind of clothes? I'll also get a set. grandfather News from Tianzhou Chu Fan was After divorce Accepted the Medicine King Adult invitation Will attend tomorrow's Dragon Gate Feast And he promised After the Dragon Gate Banquet tomorrow Treating you real Thank you so much The Medicine King This little friend Chu Fan It's really not that simple The Great King of Medicine Treat him with courtesy This Tang family is really Blind Missing the Dragon But it gives Our Xiao family opportunity My granddaughter is not like She is Tang Qiuyue grandfather elegy You go prepare yourself well. Come with me tomorrow Attend the Dragon Gate Banquet I heard that the entire northern province The whole family is here Xiao Kuishou will also be there This medicine king Appeal in the Northern Province It's really extraordinary Xiao Kuishou is Medicine King's spokesperson in Tianzhou Jingzhou Chamber of Commerce and The connection between the kings of medicine That all depends on Xiao Kuishou is maintaining Him Naturally I will come to participate As for the others Aristocratic family Not only to give the King of Medicine face More importantly The one high above The powerful Lord of Longmen Coming soon For this session Inscription on the Dragon Gate Banquet That's the Medicine King Gu Tianhe The existence that everyone looks up to Who wouldn't want to see his true appearance? Yes, Dad. Our Moon If you can catch This high and mighty Holy Lord Then our Tang family But really Soaring into the sky Proud of Tianzhou Don't think about it Such a big character How could it be us? Able to climb This is all thanks to Mr. Qin If it weren't for him How can we come Such a luxurious banquet Yue'er, will you Serve Mr. Qin well Our Tang family It all depends on the Qin family. Oh, there is more. Yesterday, I The rednecks were driven out Can't let Mr. Qin know He also came to propose marriage That bumpkin We broke off the engagement in public yesterday. Probably won't come again. I'm afraid he won't give up. Stalker If that bumpkin You dare to bother me again? Then I will let mom You really hit the nail on the head. He really came This makes you hit the mark. He really came Hurrah This country bumpkin Let's teach him a lesson. Chu Fan, you dare to come here You are so thick-skinned. I was in public yesterday I broke up with you. I still chased this Longmen Banquet came to entangle I'll tell you again I am Tang Qiuyue It is the young generation of Tianzhou The Proud Daughter of Heaven Be worthy of me Only someone like Qin Shao Young Talents You're less of a toad. I want to eat swan meat I'm telling you The moon has already Qin Shao is engaged You toad, just be good. Stay in your stinking ditch Don't bother us Yue'er. You don't deserve it How are you two? So much self-conceit. Sir, I'm not here Find Tang Qiuyue Like you A vain woman At all Not worthy of me You should stop being so pretentious. You came from that broken ravine Climb out Not just to come to me Tang's family eats and drinks for free Free food? You can give up I don't believe it You're missing one The look of being high above I tell you You Qin family elders No talent and no virtue Breaking promises Small but beautiful appearance The rotten stuff Family There's nothing good you Wild Boy You specially came to this Longmen Banquet Haunt my daughter Humiliating my Tang family in public Do you really think I'm Tang's family? No temper? I tell you Mr. Qin will be here soon I advise you Still with the tail between legs Get out of here now Don't wait for Mr. Qin to come. You know what it is called No Way to Heaven No way in A dandy second generation rich kid I don't know if I can give How confident are you? Can you talk to me like this? Such a big tone I'm going to take a look today Who dares? Don't take me Qin Junhao Keep it in mind This is Qin Shao Shameless redneck He took it yesterday. A Broken Marriage Certificate Come to my house to propose marriage What did he do yesterday? Went to the Tang family to propose marriage Why didn't you tell me Qin Shao People are not afraid Did it ruin your mood? And my grandfather has I rejected him in public. It's him, the country bumpkin. Shameless Come and bother others It turned out to be a thought The Wild Man from the Valley Didn't anyone tell you Longmen Banquet, this kind of upper-class people High-end clubs Not your kind People at the bottom of society It's coming Who are you? Where do I want to go? Where to go none of your business It is indeed a Uneducated thing. You don't go to ask. My Qin family is in Tianzhou What a powerful position I, Qin Junhao and Yue'er What is the relationship? You dare to offend her Tang family? Just follow me Qin Junhao can't get over it So you are Tang Qiuyue's mistress certainly Why are you afraid? If you are afraid Kneel down before the moon now Kneel down to apologize Get out of Tianzhou Let me kneel down You deserve it too I think you are really No penalty for drinking Eat toast Mr. Qin, we don't want I'm angry with this kind of person. Get angry with people like him It will only lower our status He certainly didn't Invitation to the Dragon Gate Banquet It must be secretly Ran in to eat and drink for free It will be Security kicked out Can I come to this Longmen Banquet? It adds luster to it. What invitation letter do you need? You really are An ignorant country bumpkin. You're bragging No draft. Anyone who participates in me Tianzhou Longmen Banquet Must be approved by Xiao Kui Holding the invitation letter from Xiao Kuishou To enter You dare not pass by Xiao Kuishou Just trespass I see you are Tired of living? I tell you Xiao Tairan is not qualified yet I've decided to stay or go. Bold How dare you to say to Xiao Kuishou Rude remarks Don't you want to live? Do you know Tang Family? No one can compare to Tianzhou Xiao Tairan, the head of the Xiao family He is also the leader of Tianzhou Chamber of Commerce. The existence of the ceiling Pinch you Like pinching a As simple as an ant The Xiao family's influence in Tianzhou You're a wild boy. It's simply unimaginable A word from Xiao family leader Xiao It will allow you to stay in Tianzhou Unable to survive Xiao Tairan is here I will only ask you, my Lord. Treat him What the hell are you talking about? If Xiao Kuishou is ill I will only ask the Medicine King for help Treat it Medicine King's Wife He is not only a high-ranking official He is also a master of medicine No one can compare What are you? It turns out that Medicine King Gu Tianhe In your eyes, it is so majestic Then you guys take a look What is this This is the Medicine King Seal This is the Medicine King Seal Can you lend it to me? How about giving you a look? The image on this seal But the Medicine King Seal is very similar Is it really the Medicine King Seal? This is the Medicine King Seal Only Xiao Kuishou has seen the real thing It seems that we can only wait Xiao Kui Shou is here To identify the authenticity Want to verify authenticity It's not that simple. My Qin family's invitation letter This is the seal of the King of Medicine. You It's fake you Bold What do you take? Shit Seal Dare to pretend to be the Medicine King Seal And the one on my Qin family's invitation The seal is completely different You are everyone present Are you all considered fools? I just said it Medicine King's Wife That's high up. Even if I wait I'm not qualified to face him. Such a big character How can I be with you? The wild boy is involved Besides This Medicine King Seal That belongs to the Medicine King. Symbol of power You have to carry it with you. How could it fall into Other people's hands This country bumpkin It's a private seal. He came to us Cheating at the Longmen Banquet He is a stubborn person. Light is deceiving Privately carved Medicine King Seal That's a capital crime. Can you afford it? It seems that Qin Junhao There is a good saying you They are all fools You broke the Medicine King Seal Waiting for Gutianhe Make amends joke You privately carved the Medicine King Seal At this Dragon Gate Banquet Fraud Fraud If the Medicine King knew I destroyed it myself. You fake seal Only praise me Qin Junhao is capable in his work Why do you say that? My seal is fake. I see what you have in your hand The invitation is fake. What You said mine The invitation is fake This invitation It was given by Xiao Kuishou My Qin family can be here Dragon Gate Banquet A seat at the table All thanks to Xiao Kuishou's support The Tang family is on good terms with my Qin family So my Qin family Struggled for it An invitation letter Even the Northern Province Medicine King Gu Tianhe All for Xiao Kuishou A few thin noodles Hereby on this invitation With stamp How can it be fake? Gift from the King of Medicine Of course not fake This country bumpkin The lie was exposed Get angry out of shame Talking nonsense Today, I, Qin Junhao, am fortunate to Thanks to Xiao Kui Shou Can you and the King of Medicine The mysterious Lord Sitting within reach If my Qin family can get The Favor of the Holy Lord It will definitely become the Northern Province A first-class family Get the favor of my master You are worthy What are you doing, you bastard? It's really an invitation. Of course Unfortunately, I sent it to the wrong person. You are so brave. How dare you tear it up My Qin family's invitation letter Grandpa, I am now Officially notify you Today's Dragon Gate Banquet You Qin Junhao Not worthy to participate The same goes for your Tang family. You guys Unworthy of the position Not even worthy of attending the Dragon Gate Banquet How dare you tear me apart Qin's invitation letter Disrespectful to several adults Now I am so arrogant Openly challenge me Qin and Tang From now on, all the people in Tianzhou You can't move You mountain pariah What qualifications do you have for us? The Tang and Qin families gossiped about each other What are your qualifications? good Then I will let Look at this What qualifications do I have? This case is written All are from the masterpieces of famous teachers The only one in the world They are all from my Tianzhou family Prepared by the Holy Lord If you dare to damage I will ask you to go out sideways It is prepared for my master That's perfect. You Qin and Tang families No morals and no talent It makes me very unhappy. From then on, Tianzhou was removed from the list You Let me remove Qin family Tianzhou Who do you think you are? The Dragon Gate Lord? That's right, Master. Hey you country bumpkin You are not only here Dragon Gate Banquet To Xiao Kuishou and Medicine King Disrespect Dare to pretend Supreme Dragon Gate Lord It's simply unforgivable. All my Tianzhou family I will never let you go But a group Just a mob What do I fear? Dare to follow the whole Tianzhou family challenges So reckless You are still the first More talk is useless Break his legs To all families in Tianzhou Kneel down to apologize Let him leave alive My Tianzhou Family Where is the face You guys are buzzing Flies are annoying I'm standing here. Come if you have the ability. I think you are really I am tired of living Since everyone All are expected Then I'll let you This dog knows Offending my Tianzhou The consequences of power Where are the warriors of my Qin family? Hurry up and put this Mountain Outcasts Get it for me Xiao Kuishou arrives Country Bum Xiao Kuishou has arrived See how arrogant you are. Xiao Kuishou, you came just in time. This wild boy named Chu Fan Openly challenge you And he also pretended to be the Holy Lord We are about to His leg is broken It's up to you, old man. Blind your eyes Dr. Chu I am Xiao Tairan, late. Please forgive me This case is written All are from the masterpieces of famous teachers The only one in the world They are all from my Tianzhou family Prepared by the Holy Lord If you dare to damage I will ask you to go out sideways It is prepared for my master That's perfect. You Qin and Tang families No morals and no talent It makes me very unhappy. From then on, Tianzhou was removed from the list You Let me remove Qin family Tianzhou Who do you think you are? The Dragon Gate Lord? That's right, Master. Hey you country bumpkin You are not only here Dragon Gate Banquet To Xiao Kuishou and Medicine King Disrespect Dare to pretend Supreme Dragon Gate Lord It's simply unforgivable. All my Tianzhou family I will never let you go But a group Just a mob What do I fear? Dare to follow the whole Tianzhou family challenges So reckless You are still the first More talk is useless Break his legs To all families in Tianzhou Kneel down to apologize Let him leave alive My Tianzhou Family Where is the face You guys are buzzing Flies are annoying I'm standing here. Come if you have the ability. I think you are really I am tired of living Since everyone All are expected Then I'll let you This dog knows Offending my Tianzhou The consequences of power Where are the warriors of my Qin family? Hurry up and put this Mountain Outcasts Get it for me Xiao Kuishou arrives Country Bum Xiao Kuishou has arrived See how arrogant you are. Xiao Kuishou, you came just in time. This wild boy named Chu Fan Openly challenge you And he also pretended to be the Holy Lord We are about to His leg is broken It's up to you, old man. Blind your eyes Dr. Chu I am Xiao Tairan, late. Please forgive me I am Xiao Tairan, late. Please forgive me Xiao Kuishou, what are you doing? Shut up A bunch of blind things Did you know Who did I offend? Old Man Xiao Are you here to see me? Exactly You guys Something with no eyes This little friend Chu Fan This is the miracle doctor I've been looking for. You can't afford it. Big Shot Xiao Kuishou, you must be mistaken He is a A country bumpkin Not a miracle doctor at all. Don't be fooled by him. What is your identity? You dare to question my grandfather? Your Tang family When is it the woman's turn? Come out and speak Ms. Xiao, please calm down. My wife here doesn't know the rules Please also invite Xiao Kuishou and Miss Xiao Give me some face Don't get acquainted with her. The old man is here Make amends to you two on her behalf Xiao Kuishou Chu Fan He was just divorced by the Tang family yesterday. He also said he wanted to treat the Tang family's head. This kind of person is just a Shameless Charlatan How could he be a miracle doctor? snort A bunch of blind idiots Do you know who is your teacher? What kind of shocking background does it have? He's just a country bumpkin. Learned some basic medical skills A liar who deceives people everywhere He's just a country bumpkin. Learned some basic medical skills A liar who deceives people everywhere Stupidity and Ignorance Let me tell you. Dr. Chu He is the descendant of the Medical God He has the support of a fairy behind him You are worthy of doubting The heir of the medical immortal Could it be that this stinky boy Except Lin Yuqin Besides this mistress He has the support of the Medical Immortal behind him. Legend of Chinese Medicine Living in seclusion in the mountains all year round Medical skills Has the ability to revive the dead Presumably his descendants Also learned the true Could it be Chu Fan He really has a great background. As Dr. Chu Make a marriage contract with your Tang family How many generations of the Tang family are you? Blessings from cultivation But your Tang family is so good How dare you break off the marriage? Blind your eyes It's our Tang family who is blind. If you don't hate My husband, Xiao Tairan Willing to send granddaughter Xiao Wange Marry Chu the Divine Doctor I wonder what you, Doctor Chu, think. My Granddaughter's Elegy And the girl from the Tang family They are called the twin peaks of Tianzhou Whether it is appearance or talent No worse than her Old Man Xiao I accept your proposal. Tang Wanshan, I broke off the engagement yesterday You said I am not worthy of your Tang family Let's talk about your Tang family A big family in Tianzhou I don't know your Tang family. Compared with the Xiao family So what? Tang Family in Tianzhou Just a second-rate family Compared with the Xiao family Not worth mentioning Tang Qiuyue You said yesterday that I was incompetent. No family background It doesn't matter Now you give it to me for free I don't care about you, sir. You all listen to me. Dr. Chu I am the distinguished guest of the Xiao family. Who among you dares to disrespect Dr. Chu? It's disrespectful to my Xiao family. I will never let him go. Although the disciple of the Medical Immortal has no real power Poverty and Penance But it is highly respected Now Xiao Kuishou Instead, I respect him more If he holds a grudge My Tang family divorced him. Don't let Xiao Kui Shou Destroy my Tang family Hey Qiuyue What are you doing standing there? Apologize to Chu Fan immediately That Chu Fan is Qiuyue, right? She shouldn't have divorced you. Don't worry about it. right Chu Fan, as long as you nod Our engagement continues. Who cares about your broken engagement? You just mocked me. Now I want you to be out of reach Country Bum Don't think the Xiao family is protecting you. can use the power of the tiger to bully others Qin Junhao Don't you understand? My grandpa said that? Or do you want to be with me? The Xiao family is the enemy Mr. Qin, please don't act on impulse. This offended Xiao Kuishou. That would destroy your Qin family. I don't want to be an enemy of the Xiao family. Just this What the Redneck Does He has become the public enemy of Tianzhou Why are you, the Xiao family, so protective of him? Aren't you afraid? Are the noble families of Tianzhou disappointed? Since the Qin family is treating me I have objections to what the old man does Then I can only report to the Medicine King Cancel your Qin family All cooperation with Longmen Cancel the cooperation with Longmen Isn't the Qin family You will lose most of your profits By then Not even as good as a second-rate family Fortunately, our two families No official marriage yet Xiao Tairan, you are the leader of Tianzhou The family of Tianzhou Profits First But you are indiscriminate Punish us Unfair My Qin family is dissatisfied It's obviously you who are blind Humiliating Doctor Chu first My grandfather punished Reasonable How can it be unfair? This country bumpkin Just now slandered the King of Medicine Defamation of the Holy Lord Defamation of Longmen Violated the law of heaven Unforgivable sin You, the Xiao family, are doing this for your own selfish interests. I want this kid Treat you Disregarding the dignity of Longmen What qualifications do you Xiao family have? Serve as this Tianzhou The leader position Qin Junhao Your Qin family Now my wings are really hard Dare to openly Talking back and questioning my grandfather Do you really think that Can you cover the sky with one hand? Don't forget the Medicine King Coming soon Everything about your Xiao family They are all from the Medicine King. Gifts If he is old I learned that your Xiao family Qilongmen and the Holy Lord Dignity Dedicated to protecting those who offended Longmen What do you think of your Xiao family? Affordable Is this the punishment from the Medicine King? Medicine King How could I be the same as you? Short-sighted Doctor Chu attends the Dragon Gate Banquet I was invited by the Medicine King. This Chu Fan Not only did Xiao Kuishou need him He is also highly regarded by the King of Medicine My Tang Family Isn't this a huge trouble? Xiao Elegy You are favoring this person Even such a lie can be made up Medicine King How noble is his status? Even me and others It's hard to see each other This lowly bastard How could we possibly know each other? You said Medicine King Show compassion to him This is even more impossible What Qin Shao said makes sense If this country bumpkin Really know the King of Medicine How could he be so poor? Yeah, like this kind of stuff He is not even worthy of carrying shoes for the Medicine King How could the Medicine King take him seriously? You, young man If you really speak without restraint I will report this to the Medicine King Drive your Qin family out of Tianzhou Drive out of Tianzhou My Qin Family Will he be expelled from Tianzhou? You Xiao Tairan Now it doesn't count I'll tell you the truth My Qin family has been The Appreciation of the Medicine King Medicine King He has already Billion-dollar project Gift to Qin Family What I really didn't expect this. The Qin family was able to Directly connect with the King of Medicine With the Qin family's restraint The Xiao family is nothing to be afraid of. Empty words You said that the Medicine King gave Your Qin family's 10 billion project Certificate available Bring it up this It's the Medicine King Grant us the Qin family 10 billion project in Northern Province There is the Medicine King. Autograph Just waiting for this Dragon Gate Banquet The stamp is completed and it will take effect This contract is real. Hahaha I am Tang Wanshan I really didn't miss it. Qiuyue and the Qin family are married Then my Tang family will definitely be able to Taking advantage of the situation to rise to the top Wonderful Congratulations to Mr. Qin Qin Shao Please treat my Tang family well in the future. Promote more! I just knew it I, Tang Qiuyue, have good taste. Our Mr. Qin The real dragon among men Fortunately, I didn't marry that guy. A poor, smelly country bumpkin Country Bum Don't be complacent too early. Even the Xiao family can't save you now. I've been proud of this for a long time. But the 10 billion contract My words It will allow Gu Tianhe to take it back You country bumpkin Do you know what you are talking about? One more word to make Medicine King listen to you I think you think your life is too long. This ancient Tianhe is the northern province The Big One You can't say such big words. You country bumpkin How shameless! The Medicine King is not only A giant in the medical field of Northern Province He is the top power in China. Master of Longmen Medicine Hall In Tianzhou, Heavenly existence Now the Holy Lord of Longmen has arrived in Tianzhou The Medicine King wants to use this Dragon Gate Banquet To welcome him My Qin Family Also obtained with The opportunity to toast the Holy Lord When the time comes, my Qin family Will definitely replace your Xiao family Become the leader of the new generation of Tianzhou I really didn't expect this. The Qin family actually had an affair with the Dragon Gate Saint This supreme figure Get involved The Xiao family is nothing to be afraid of. So the Qin family Not only will he become the leader of Tianzhou In the big Chinese family Occupy a place Then our Tang family It will also climb upwards grandfather If the Qin family is really The Holy Lord established a relationship Empowered by the King of Medicine Then our Xiao family Isn't it a big trouble? I didn't expect them The Qin family developed so rapidly Also appreciated by the Medicine King Want to take the miracle doctor away I'm afraid it's not that easy. Hey, don't worry. What is Medicine King? You know now But the Dragon Gate Lord Doctor Chu and the Holy Lord met How could he know the Holy Lord? Even the Holy Lord Mentioned by him It's all disrespectful to him. Bragging without thinking You since childhood The mud-legged man rolling in the ravine Still dreaming of following the Holy King Get in touch I'm looking at you I ate too much wild mushrooms from the mountains. Are you hallucinating? Ahahahaha The country bumpkin has never seen the world. Dare to establish any relationship Really little master I don't need to make friends with relatives Never seen the world It's you guys. Something with no eyes Country Bum You still dare to be stubborn I think he can't. Establishing a relationship with the Holy Lord I don't care about Dr. Chu Is it related to the Holy Lord? The old man just said Who dares to disrespect Dr. Chu? That is disrespectful to my Xiao family. Xiao Tairan, are you serious? I thought you were the one from Tianzhou The leader of Tianzhou who can call the wind and rain? My Qin family is not afraid of your Xiao family Today I will never let this Brat Leave here intact Xiao Family Even if I try Lost the position of Tianzhou leader We must also protect the great doctor Chu It seems that you have to Protect this country bumpkin Fight with me to the end Right? You have to think it through. Wait until this Dragon Gate Banquet is over My Qin family can replace Your Xiao family's location Command Tianzhou I want to suppress it then Sniper your Qin family That's all easy stuff What sweet dreams are there in broad daylight? He also ordered Tianzhou to bankrupt the Xiao family I see your Qin family I don't have this ability yet I'll show you Do I have this ability? Get him for me I see who dares This person destroyed my Tianzhou Aristocratic family The most precious treasure of writing and ink prepared for the Holy Lord And again and again Disrespect for the King of Medicine Impersonating the Holy Lord It's simply an unforgivable sin. As the leader of Tianzhou, Xiao Tairan But for personal gain Favor this wild boy Ignore the Medicine King and the Holy Lord It's simply an unforgivable sin. We can all be killed Qin Shao is right Today, I will not remove this kid. I am so reckless Tianzhou clan good This Chu guy must pay the price Give me Take this redneck down for me Who caused trouble at the Longmen Banquet? Meet the Medicine King What's going on? Oh, Lord Medicine King This kid has been disrespectful to you repeatedly. Impersonating the Holy Lord It's simply treasonous. As the leader of Tianzhou, Xiao Tairan To cure the disease Containment Tell lies I'm biased towards this wild boy He also said that Medicine King Do you treat him with courtesy? Yeah oh Medicine King This is this wild boy Privately engrave your seal Impersonating you Do evil I have destroyed this seal. Here is the evidence You kid angered the Medicine King. Your life will be in danger Your Xiao family will be doomed. Don't worry, Master Yao Wang We are now Just break this kid's legs This time, Mr. Medicine King Really angry Even Young Master Qin has implicated us Stop talking How dare you break my Medicine King Seal? How many brains do you have in your Qin family? Enough compensation This Medicine King Seal is real Gu Tianhe meets Mr. Chu Ancient Tianhe These people said that I was useless. I'm also going to strip my grandpa This layer of skin on me What do you think we should do? Mr. Chu, rest assured I will definitely give you an explanation ah Kneel down and kowtow to Mr. Chu to confess his guilt Oh, don't I can't bear it Your Qin family Now favored by the King of Medicine Also won a 10 billion contract Soon after To replace the Xiao family Become the leader of Tianzhou If I meet the Dragon Gate Saint today Then you have to soar into the sky. From today Cancel Qin Family All business cooperation with Longmen Longmen takes back the gift All the business resources of the Qin family no Medicine King This stinky boy is a Rural untouchables How could you do this? Chu Xiaoyou Look at me With your wife This old acquaintance Please give us Tang family Leave a way to live I bah you still have the face Mention my master's wife My master's wife saved your life. Give you medicine You are ungrateful treachery Regretted marriage in public Still have the nerve to ask me This Chu Uh, Mr. Chu Why don't you go with Qiuyue? Shut your stinky mouth The wicked woman who sold her daughter in public Gu Tianhe I see now The people in the Tang family are annoying. Just do it yourself Hello Mr. Chu Start Today Tianzhou Don't be with the Tang family Any business dealings Tang Family and Longmen All business cooperation projects All handed over to the Xiao family No, don't. Please, Master Medicine King Please leave a way out for our Tang family. Enough Get out of here As for you breaking your legs To serve as a warning to others Lord Medicine King, please wait. Qin Family Master Medicine King I just heard that the dog Caused a disaster at the Dragon Gate Banquet Come here specially to plead guilty It's all because I didn't teach my child well. I hope that the Medicine King Let the dog go Mr. Chu You are my VIP guest of Gu Tianhe Qin Junhao and the Tang family collide Mr. Chu Offending the Majesty of Heaven His crime should be punished Mr. Chu It's all because of this rebellious son who doesn't know how to live or die Offending Mr. Chu I'm here Make amends for him Why Please Mr. Chu Give him a chance Old Qin, why are you so humble? Your Qin Junhao said He immediately got a 10 billion contract To replace the Xiao family Become the leader of Tianzhou Soaring into the sky You What a boast Treason Mr. Chu My Qin family is willing to donate half of our property I just ask Mr. Qin to forgive me. What do I need your money for? Give your money to the Xiao family. Since you are willing Give up one-fifth of the family property Then I'll give it to him again One Chance If you dare to offend Mr. Chu again Determined to kill without mercy Thank you Mr. Chu Thank you, Master Medicine King You Chu Fan, don't think Xiao Wange You can ascend to heaven in one step When the Xiao family's son-in-law She is from Beijing. Li Dashao's Woman I will definitely Tell Li Shao about today's events Just wait Okay, you arrange it yourself. Li Shao, who is so ignorant? Disturb your pleasure Qin Junhao that kid Say you want to see me Leave him alone Dr. Chu Your clothes How about it You city folks look like To do What about this suit? The most particular about tailoring and fabrics Go to a professional tailor shop Tailor-made But you It doesn't seem to fit. So troublesome I still Just wear my old clothes. Dr. Chu, you are a great doctor Please also be my grandfather Treating serious illnesses rest assured You two, grandpa and grandson Protect me like this I cured his disease. Besides, we are not Are you a family? Dr. Chu Please treat my grandfather first. Okay, you guys go back first. I changed into comfortable clothes I'll go find you guys. This is our door card. Let's go Chu Fan this kid He's a big shot indeed. Even the Medicine King was so respectful to him What kind of big shot could he be? Just a bumpkin I don't know what means were used. Deceived the King of Medicine It's the country bumpkins who are the best at deceiving people. dad What will our Tang family do in the future? Without the support of the King of Medicine Now including the Qin family All families in Tianzhou They treat us like plague gods Avoid dad Our Tang family won't go bankrupt, right? grandfather dad What's wrong with you grandfather This is so good Why is he vomiting blood? It's all Chu's fault First, he made a scene at my Tang family birthday party. Later at the Longmen Banquet My Tang family almost went bankrupt The old man must be I was so angry at him that I was furious Just spit out blood Autumn Moon My current condition With Chu Fan's master's wife The same as when treating I have searched for famous doctors but they are powerless It seems that I can only ask Chu Fan for help. Can cure my disease grandfather Ask him now. Grandpa, he's a liar. yes quick Time is running out for Grandpa. Okay, Grandpa. Grandpa, I'm going now. I'm going now You take grandpa to the hospital. I'll be back soon Quick, quick, quick We go to the hospital Dad goes to the hospital Request a ride This is where the rich live. Like a palace Stop what are you doing Get out of my way, sir. I'm going to go in and find someone. Find someone joke This hillside villa But it was developed by the Xiao family The most luxurious villa area The owners are all rich or noble. Even Xiao Tairan, the leader of the Xiao clan They all live in it And you're dressed like a beggar Who would believe you if you told me you were looking for someone? Little Master, I'm here to treat Xiao Tairan. An>> What is the status of the Xiao family? If Xiao Kuishou is really sick There are many famous doctors in Tianzhou. Even if the head is broken, we have to come to treat it And who are you? Get out of here or I'll break your legs. madness I'm too lazy to argue with you. Get out of the way Kid Chu Fan Tang Qiuyue What are you doing here? Where did this wild girl come from? Get out of here now and don't interfere with my work. Open your eyes and see clearly Ms. It's Tang Qiuyue from Tianzhou Tang family Miss Tang I didn't recognize the real Taishan. How much offense We are blind. It's not me you should apologize to. It's Dr. Chu If Xiao Kuishou knew You are offended His distinguished guests You can't eat it Take it with you You can't eat it Take it with you Miracle Doctor Miracle Doctor I beg you to have plenty of Spare us. If Xiao Kuishou knew this They will definitely fire us. What are you two doing? Manager Chen Please help us two talk We are offended Xiao Kuishou's distinguished guest If he doesn't forgive us We're going to be fired. Are you two idiots? Like him Worse than a beggar Said he was Xiao Kuishou's VIP You also believe Then Miss Ben gave him proof. This is Tianzhou Tang family Miss Tang Qiuyue ha It turned out to be Miss Tang But I just got the news The Xiao family cancelled All cooperation with the Tang family The current Xiao family Not with the Tang family Half a dime relationship So what you said doesn't work. you It's okay if you don't believe me But this But the distinguished guest invited by Xiao Kuishou Can you afford to offend? offend Xiao Kuishou knew I was at the door Hanako I'll just praise my loyalty. Who is the beggar? Look what this is Hey you country bumpkin How dare you steal the Xiao family's door card? I'm worried that I don't have a chance. You delivered it to the door Don't think about leaving today. You two Catch him for me good You country bumpkin He actually knows Kung Fu Who are you calling a thief? I told you I'm not here to steal. If you keep doing this I'm not being polite to you. ah I see You must be coveting The beauty of Miss Xiao Want to do something bad to her I've seen a lot of people like you. Every now and then Two will pop out. But no matter what people say He is also a rich boy. No matter how bad it is Also young and promising Rising Star Like you Poor Country Bum The first one Knock you down I'm the first one too. Don't be arrogant You're good at fighting, right? I'm going to take a look today How many can you hit? All of you come here. There comes a The beggar who doesn't know how to live or die is causing trouble You are done for today Just you guys It's not enough for me to warm up. I'd like to see Is it your bones that are hard? Or is it your stubbornness? Call me Stop it Stop it Missy Such a small thing How did I startle you? Just a troublemaker beggar Deal with it immediately Who are you? You dare to stop me? Xiao's distinguished guest Missy I was wrong I have no idea He is our Xiao family's distinguished guest. Even if you give me a hundred courage I dare not stop it. Go to the finance department to collect salary You don't need to come starting tomorrow. Ms. Xiao Please Give me another chance take away Please, please, please. Miss Duan Ms. Xiao Please give me another chance Ms. Xiao I'm so sorry, Dr. Chu It's all my fault for not being a good parent. Such a scumbag You're not hurt, are you? Just these few shrimp soldiers and crab generals It can't hurt me. That's good. Let's go in. Chu Fan Please save my grandpa. Only you can save him. Tang Wanshan's own fault He asked for this. As long as you are willing to save my grandfather I, Tang Qiuyue, am willing I will serve you like a slave. No complaints I don't like you, sir. I don't need you to be a slave. Go back and tell Tang Wanshan It's your own fault Not viable Just now at the banquet Still fine Why did it suddenly stop working? Gu Tianhe's Awakening Pill Although very useful But once the effect of the drug wears off Will instantly recover Previous status Dr. Chu You must save my grandfather It's fine There is Dr. Chu It will definitely cure me. Don't worry In this world No grandpa yet Incurable disease Young The tone is quite big Hey hey hey dad This is Northern Province Medicine King Gu Tianhe's eldest disciple Sun Yizhi Deeply learned the true teachings of the King of Medicine Excellent medical skills Looking at Tianzhou No one can match I paid Ten million reward I was invited to treat you. Humph, you rebellious son Usually indifferent to family I only ask my family for money. Now I'm looking for a doctor for my husband How did I give you money last time? Lost it all again? Old man, what are you talking about? We are all a family. Find a doctor for you Isn't it what it should be? Family I think you are afraid of me. You won't get a share of the property. Besides My husband's illness has made The old man, the King of Medicine, has seen it. And powerless The great disciple of the Medicine King I'm afraid there's nothing I can do. This Dr. Chu He has great medical skills I'll definitely be able to cure this old man Xiao Patriarch I already understand your condition. Although there is no cure But with my medical skills It can make you live at least a little longer One month Haha but If we let those Unknown person Words to help you heal I'm afraid I'll die today. you He is not worthy of being called a miracle doctor. I think he's just a charlatan Are you here to cheat me out of money? This won't happen again My good niece In which ravine? Found it out Auntie, you really overestimate me. Dr. Chu I can't invite him. Oh This kid is wearing Like a beggar Must be a liar oops Just blast it out presumptuous Do you think my life is too long? If you displease Dr. Chu Don't give me medical treatment How can you afford it? Xiao Patriarch Even my master, Medicine King All diseases are incurable No one in this world can see well Gu Tianhe can't cure it It's because he's not good at medicine. Old Man Xiao's Illness Master, I can catch you Old Man Xiao's Illness Master, I can catch you Talk nonsense Even my master, Medicine King No disease can be cured You said you can cure it Could it be that you Better than his old man's medical skills Still high? Gu Tianhe's Medical Skills In my eyes, it's a drop in the bucket Bold A young child does not know the immensity of heaven and earth Dare to defame my master's reputation Okay, Dr. Sun. Lianying King They all treated Dr. Chu with great courtesy. I believe he can Cure my husband's illness You go back first. Don't know what's good for you Xiao Patriarch Good luck to yourself Hey, Dr. Sun Don't rush to leave. What if they What's the problem with treating the old man? When the time comes, hehehehe That ten million is not still yours Hey Mr. Xiao Is Sun the kind of person? People who are greedy for money I am concerned about the illness of Patriarch Xiao. I'd like to see What's your method? Hum, that's for you to open your eyes. Ah, you country bumpkin You actually used such a big nail? Treat the old man You really have bad intentions. I have been practicing medicine for many years. Never seen Such a thick needle I guess it's just a fake Deceptive things Dr. Chu Are you sure to use this Can you really save my grandpa? Of course. There are villagers in our village who are sick. I always use this Healed them Good Doctor Chu I believe you Old man, just lie down with your eyes closed. ah grandfather Chu Fan What did you do to my grandpa? don't worry This is for treating old man Xiao. Necessary process I gave him liver cells Accelerates healing ability A few minutes later His liver cells will regenerate. By then his illness Healed naturally Nonsense The liver of Patriarch Xiao Almost broken Did you say Can it be regenerated again? I'll go take a look Oh, the old man is out of breath. The first time I saw you I know you I'm sure he has no good intentions. Hey, old man I could have lived for a few more years. Now it's good You poked me with a few needles. I poked it directly. I have to be good today Teach you a lesson, liar uncle Doctor Chu is I am the distinguished guest of the Xiao family Today I will see who dares to touch him Hey you you you you you Xiao Elegy You even dared to talk back to your uncle. You really think that old man You are the head of the Xiao family. I didn't mean that. Besides, grandpa hasn't I don't mean that. I see you and this country bumpkin They are a group Aunt, you can slander me But you absolutely can't Insulting Doctor Chu Since your Xiao family Don't believe me I don't care about old man Xiao's illness anymore. Country Bum If the truth is revealed, I will run away. Get lost Dr. Chu Please don't leave yet For my sake All right Seeing you and old man Xiao All because of me I'll stay first Patriarch Xiao did not He can still be saved. He can still be saved. There is still help Patriarch Xiao is just in a severe coma No But if you don't save me now, I'm afraid it will be There's no way to save the situation. Dr. Sun Can you save the old man? OK, I'll give it a try. Before grandpa wakes up No one is allowed to touch him. You girl Don't think I don't know What are you worried about? You just want Morning, old man. You are so good at taking all the Xiao family's property I tell you Your uncle and I are here. The Xiao family's inheritance is not yours. Don't slander people. Although I have been helping grandpa Managing the Xiao family's business But I never thought To take possession of the family property This Dr. Chu He is the King of Medicine Trust with Grandpa Doctor Chu said Grandpa can wake up Grandpa will wake up. You think we can't see Are you two in the same group? Dr. Sun, please take action good See how long you can keep showing off. It's just a quack. Got it from old man Xiao I don't know what disease it is. Pull out these needles There is no doubt that Old Man Xiao snort Pull out these needles Old Man Xiao is doomed to die snort I follow the Medicine King More than 30 years of medical practice Thousands of patients have been cured What kind of disease have you never seen? You're a charlatan. You dare to question me Who are you? You country bumpkin Dr. Sun's treatment method You are so short-sighted. Even those who despise me can guess I think you are with Xiao Wange To seize my Xiao family's property I'm afraid that Dr. Sun will save the old man. Make trouble for me here Don't talk too much. I didn't mean to kill grandpa. Dr. Chu said so He must have his reasons. Old Man Xiao's Illness Not an ordinary liver disease Naturally it can't be used Common treatments for liver disease Go to treatment Pull out these needles at will It will only hasten his death. shut your mouth A cheater who eats and drinks Countryside Doctor I really think of myself as a person. You think you use those The rhetoric used to deceive ignorant village women can deceive my Xiao family Then I'd like to see How did you do it yourself? The one who killed old man Xiao Get him out of here. Don't let him disgust me. Visitors Take this country bumpkin Kick me out you I am here I see who dares Xiao Elegy You're in cahoots with this guy. Murder of the Xiao Family Patriarch Still wanting to monopolize My Xiao family's property I will replace the Xiao family today. Cleaning up the house Visitors You guys had a plan. The fox's tail is exposed. Stop talking nonsense and take it away stop Do you wish I would die sooner? dad Can't wait for me to come earlier? dad You're such a rebel Do you want to hurt me? Dad, you haven't Not Dad You misunderstood me Grandpa, you're awake. How do you feel? I feel much more comfortable I have more energy than before. Thanks to Dr. Chu. Thank you Dr. Chu Hey, old man Xiao You don't have to thank me You shouldn't die. I'm just following the will of heaven Just to help you prolong your life Ouch You are such an unfilial son Although I was fuzzy just now But what you said I heard it clearly. My Xiao family property Even if I'm an old man There is also a elegy to take care of You are such a heartless person. Don't take a penny from me Grandpa You are too biased. Zhenhua is your biological son Xiao Wange will get married sooner or later You don't leave your assets to yourself. Leave it to an outsider I think you are really old and confused. good I'm getting old and confused Then from now on You two It has nothing to do with the Xiao family. Visitors Get them both out. Dad, I was wrong. And you Why are you still here? snort This made Dr. Chu laugh. My little son He is addicted to gambling Not striving for progress Just asking for money fine Your rich people's homes are too messy. I guess Dr. Chu is also tired. Then you will Live in our Xiao family Well, now that you said that. I am indeed a little tired elegy Take Doctor Chu to rest now. Dr. Chu, please follow me. Sorry Grandpa I didn't use it. I didn't ask Chu Fan to treat you. That country bumpkin He doesn't know any medical skills at all. Just pretending That's why I didn't dare to come Fear of being exposed It must be like this Let's not waste our energy. But I heard Dean Chen is going back to China He is a top doctor both at home and abroad. Ask him to see a doctor There's a long queue. That's great Let's go quickly Lest someone else grab it first Dad, we're leaving first. Autumn Moon Chu Fan is still angry now Our Tang Family You must be sincere enough Otherwise, Chu Fan will not be impressed. Good Grandpa I'll go find Chu Fan again soon I'd kneel down and apologize to him. Tang Family I'll invite him over. Chu Fan A country bumpkin Dare to snatch women from me, Li Yulou Is he looking for And the Xiao elegy Acting noble in front of me I have been in Tianzhou for three years I've been chasing her for three years. Always ignored me But in the blink of an eye But threw herself into the arms of a country bumpkin The Li family is a first-class family. As Mr. Li Which girl do you like in Tianzhou? Don't they all have to be delivered to your bed? The most important thing is this Xiao elegy And she said she wanted to marry this country bumpkin We're getting engaged soon. Call Xiao Wange Ask her to come to Tianhe Hotel to see me at night I want to ask in person What does she mean? Li Shao Someone is waiting on you. Isn't that enough? Why are you looking for that? The ungrateful Xiao Wange Didn't I tell you? The harder it is to get a girl The more I want It seems that if you want to quickly increase your power Ascend to God Level Still need to find some Top-grade jade can help me practice Grandpa asked me to bring you some fruit Grandpa asked me to bring you some fruit Chu Fan Chu Fan Are you okay? You are obscene See if you dare If you continue to be a hooligan to me Why The wicked are the first to complain. This is clearly my room, okay? you never mind I'm too lazy to argue with you Oh, by the way, I want to ask you Where is there near here Top quality jade for sale You want to buy jade I'll take you there tomorrow Try your luck at Tianyu gambling stone field Occasionally, top-quality jade is found there. And live auction Hey Xiao Elegy Qin Junhao What are you looking for me for? Don't be so hostile. What about me today? It's for Li Yulou, the son of the Li family. I'm here to invite you to an appointment. Go tell Li Yulou I won't go I've said this many times. I don't have any feelings for him Tell him to stop bothering me Xiao Wange, don't forget Although the Li family belongs to Tianzhou City But with the Li family The influence of the ghost king in China Even if you, the Xiao family With the help of Medicine King Block your Xiao family's economic lifeline It's also a piece of cake Although Li Yulou hates But behind him The strength of the Li family in Beijing Even the King of Medicine I'm afraid it's hard to achieve. Okay, I agree to the appointment. Good evening 8 o'clock See you at Tianhe Hotel Ms. Chen You are a rich lady from Beijing. Go back and rest first I'll just wait here. I'd like to see What kind of person is Xiao Wange? Li Shao was completely fascinated This is the most beautiful woman in Tianzhou Xiao Wange, the eldest daughter of the Xiao family That's all. I guess we don't know each other. Yes, big sister Who are you? Called us. Doesn't seem to be a woman Who are you calling sister? Except you here Who else is called Big Sister? Ms. Chen Don't bother with this country bumpkin. He is Xiao Tairan The son-in-law chosen at the Longmen Banquet The Xiao family's unmarried son-in-law Qin Junhao, you can't talk nonsense We haven't Hey, you're right. I am Xiao Wange's fiance I'm coming here today Just to tell That Li Yulou Let him later Stay away from our elegy Xiao Elegy Mr. Li is the eldest son of the Li family in Beijing. In the future, you will inherit Inherit the Li family and become the head of the Li family This kid is so lively A wild country dog You really are a jewel in the crown. What a blind man! My Elegy Who do you want to be with? You can't control I don't want to care But it's a pity A flower stuck in cow dung Ms. Chen You probably don't know yet He also two days ago I went to the Tang family to propose marriage with the marriage certificate. Guess what? I was kicked out, haha. What a A weakling who eats free food everywhere Your mouth stinks. My Lord, I can't stand it anymore My Lord, I can't stand it anymore How dare you hit me? how I want to give you The other side of the face Make it symmetrical. So brave Even my people from Li Yulou You dare to hit Tired of living? Li Shao This country bumpkin And hit me You must skin him. Li Shao He is the one in Xiao Wange Xiao Wange is because of him I rejected you Qin Junhao, stop gossiping. I reject Li Yulou Because I treated him No feeling at all It has nothing to do with Chu Fan. Xiao Wange, I'm giving you a chance now. Come to me immediately. otherwise You two today No one wants to leave here intact. Why You don't understand what people say. Or what? Sir, let me explain it to you. She said she doesn't like you She wants to be with me I don't want to be with a piece of trash like you. Get away When did I say so much? Country Bum Who are you? A country bumpkin So arrogant And you're stealing my woman Didn't she tell you who I am? I don't care who you are. It doesn't matter who you are. You can't force her. Do things she doesn't want to do Otherwise, I presumptuous You are challenging Li Shao's bottom line Dare not to take down the wealthy Li family in Beijing Keep it in mind This ignorant rabble We should teach you a lesson Let him remember it You kid I'll give you a chance too. Now kneel down Lick my shoes clean I'll leave you with these dog legs otherwise Don't blame me for interrupting them both. Don't blame me for interrupting them both. Li Yulou Don't go too far. Chu Fan is The distinguished guest of Lord Medicine King You actually let him kneel down for you You want to fight The face of the Medicine King? What the hell is this Medicine King? In the Northern Province, he has great power Overwhelming all the major families But outside the Northern Province In my Li family's eyes, Nothing not to mention Do you really think He will do it for this wild boy Follow me Lijia Does it create friction? If you don't believe me, you can try it. Believe it or not, Gu Tianhe It will cost you your life The boy in front of others You use Gu Tianhe as your backer Maybe it's still useful But in my eyes Worthless Even ridiculous Gu Tianhe has never been My Lord's Backer And my grandfather doesn't No need for support Li Shao, this country bumpkin He is just stubborn. Why don't you teach him a lesson? He doesn't know how to give in. Country Bum I advise you to be good. Come and lick my shoes Otherwise I will Break your dog legs Let Xiao Wange Sleep with me for a few nights Otherwise you and the Xiao family It's all over. Li Yulou Chu Fan has done a favor to my Xiao family Even if you let the Xiao family go bankrupt I won't let you humiliate him. It seems you are going to The first option snort You're smart. No matter how arrogant In front of Li Shao No, you still have to listen. He should know The Li family is not easy to mess with. Why are you so enthusiastic? First meeting Just lick my shoes But my shoes are clean. Forget it You dare to humiliate me Brat I got you Li Yulou You obviously fell down by yourself. Everyone saw it You fart This kid doesn't know Where Learn some Unorthodox Kung Fu Li Shao You can't let him go. OK You wait for me Hello, Mr. Huang Give you two minutes Bring someone with you immediately Come to Tianhe Hotel to find me Mr. Huang Could it be Huang Tianhong? The one who defeated the nine southern provinces The Invincible Southern Boxing King That's right He has now been taken over by my Li family Income under You wait for me If Li Shao Master Huang called over I'm afraid someone might get killed. Death I called him here to This stinky boy's life Chu Fan, the Southern Boxing King I heard from my grandfather He is cruel The move is life-threatening We take advantage of now Better leave now. Don't bother with him. Want to go Too late Neither of you can leave today. Chu Fan, just wait for me. And you Xiao Wangge This self-deprecating I want you to Xiao family Disappeared in the Chu River Okay, I'll wait. But you spoke today Insulting my fiancee I want you to kneel down and apologize Let me apologize for this. You're fucking dreaming I was wrong Xiao Wange, I shouldn't have scolded you It's all my problem I deserve it. Get up quickly I forgive you Get up I see who dares to move Our Li family, Mr. Mr. Huang You go now This kid's life Chu Fan Master Huang is here Your little tricks can't save you I'm going to take a look today How did Master Huang Beat you alive Kid I have no unknown people under my command Tell me your master's name I have been in Growing up in Qingniu Village No sect or school Only my master taught me some It's just a way to drive away dogs and kill pigs Hehe It was the countryside The unknown person Not worthy of my help You guys go up Punch him Have a try I'd like to see Who dares to attack Mr. Chu? Gu Tianhe, why are you here? I'm resting in this hotel. Listen to subordinates' reports Someone is looking for Mr. Chu, Ms. Xiao, please help me. I rushed over immediately Just these few little Karami It can't hurt me at all. Since the old man is here Mr. Chu, leave this to me. Gu Tianhe, others are afraid of you I'm not afraid I advise you to mind your own business. Anger our Li family No good for you Although your Li family is powerful But Mr. Li Don't you forget This is Tianzhou As long as I, Gu Tianhe, say a word No matter if you are a rich kid in Beijing Or a Chinese noble? Can't leave Tianzhou City Then you are determined I have to protect this country bumpkin. That's right As long as I, Gu Tianhe, am here No one wants to move Mr. Chu's finger Gu Tianhe Do you think you can stop me? Why not try it? But don't forget Behind the old man There are thousands of Dragon Gate Master If you want to try No matter where you go It feels like being chased by a Dragon Gate master. You might as well give it a try You guys are powerful. I admit that I can't afford to offend for the time being If the young master follows him now A head-on conflict It's bad for us. It's better for us to evacuate as soon as possible. good You wait for me, country bumpkin I don't believe this ancient Tianhe Can watch over you 24 hours a day Let's go I'm always here for you I'm always here for you Mr. Chu This person is the eldest son of the Li family in Beijing This Li family is in China A first-class family I know Then the Li family How does Longmen compare? Compared with Longmen Naturally a bit worse However, there is recent news that This Li family often has masters appearing Be careful Expert No matter how high his martial arts skills are Not as high as me Go and do your thing. I'll find you if I need anything. Subordinates resign Let's go back too. Tang Qiuyue came specially to Doctor Chu apologizes Forgive me, the Tang family, for being blind. I hope Dr. Chu is willing to help. Save my grandpa Tang Qiuyue knelt down in public to admit her mistake I'm afraid this time I'm sincere I apologize to you. Your Tang family is now Only then did I know I was wrong Is it too late? I, the Tang family, am naturally sorry. Dr. Chu But my grandfather is dying. Only Dr. Chu can cure If Dr. Chu is willing to help Save my Tang family Willing to spend 80% of my savings Gift to Dr. Chu In order to save my grandfather How can my Xiao family Not to spend all your wealth Just to find a good doctor. Although the Tang family broke off the engagement first But already got Deserved punishment Moreover, as a doctor If you don't save me, Isn't this against medical ethics? Let's cure him first. You get up first. I cured old man Tang's disease Thank you Dr. Chu This wild boy Why is it so difficult to clean up? Li Shao, Chu Fan humiliated you like this Let's just leave it at that. never mind That's it. Where can I put my Li Yulou's face? I tell you Whether it is Chu Fanxiao's elegy Still the ancient Tianhe I will make them pay. But the power of Longmen is huge We are not easy to mess with. Dragon Gate As long as my Li family Cooperate with that mysterious force I guess He will definitely not For that wild boy Break up with me right They are nothing in front of the Li family Not to mention what Little Chu Fan As long as you want to pinch him, Mr. Li You can pinch him anytime. Chu Fan, you ruined my Qin family I am Qin Junhao I will never let you down. Tomorrow Tianyu Gambling Stone Field They will auction off their treasures. Dragon Stone Jade I promised Huang Tianhong I want to buy this jade and give it to him. You go with me Wait until you buy this jade He Huang Tianhong will definitely Work for me wholeheartedly If you say so Isn't Chu Fan's death coming soon? With the strength of the Li family It's not easy to get a piece of jade. As long as my Li family thinks it is worth it Oh A piece of jade is certainly not a problem Chu Fan, let's see if you can survive this time. well How is my father? You girl Where did you go? The old man doesn't care How are my parents and grandpa? Your grandfather is in a coma. We invited Tianzhou National Director Chen of the hospital Treat your grandpa. Why What are you doing here, wild boy? You've hurt the old man like this. Are you still willing to come? mom If it weren't for you Tang family begging me I won't come Mom, this is what grandpa meant Before Grandpa fell into coma Let me invite Dr. Chu to Why did you ask him to come over? He can cure diseases. Grandpa must be confused by his illness. He is a charlatan. What medical skills do you know? The old man still believes in him Since you don't believe me Then, sir, I am leaving. Doctor Chu, please don't leave Grandpa believes in you so much He must have his reasons. I believe you will be cured. My grandpa's Don't go Okay, I'll stay a little longer. Um Dean Chen How is my dad's condition well I'm sorry, I can't do anything The old man is already terminally ill. Just prepare for your funeral. You guys prepare for the afterlife. Dean Chen I beg you to save my dad. If it were my dad Our Tang Family Our Tang family is finished. ah We can't live without the old man. Just rescue him. We give you all the money. This is not a problem that can be solved with money. Your old man Already terminally ill The gods are coming. There is no way back. I can cure Tang Wanshan's disease You can cure Where did this hairy boy come from? Talking nonsense here Such a minor illness can't be cured Also qualified to be the dean Just a quack. Dean Chen A medical professor who returned from abroad Highly respected in the medical community of Tianzhou You are a quack. What qualifications do you have to question? Dean Chen I am a country doctor. Yes. But on medical skills I don't know how many times taller than him. snort You yellow-haired boy Shameless I ask you Who is your master? Which school did you graduate from? Do you have a medical license? My Master My master's wife I haven't been to school. But I'm in the village Treating villagers No need What is a medical qualification certificate? What a courage! I don't even have a medical license. Dare to treat patients I'll call the security team now. Call up Let security arrest you. Dean Chen, please don't be angry He was named by my grandfather. Please come and treat him. He doesn't know much about Western medicine. No offense Why You don't have to explain to him. Such a minor illness can't be cured It's simply murder for money. Even if the security team comes Also catch him A quack doctor who doesn't respect his elders You are slandering me. Patriarch Tang is already seriously ill Even if Hua Tuo were alive Can't save it What if I could cure him? impossible If you can really save Patriarch Tang I kneel down and kowtow to you I will take you as my teacher No, I don't have you. Such a stupid apprentice. Why It's an emergency Chu Fan, you should take a look first. My grandpa. All right How is Dr. Chu? I can cure Tang Wanshan's disease Kid Don't brag. Patriarch Tang received our Western medical It's time to declare him dead. Hum? You can really come back to life What is your Western medicine? Traditional Chinese Medicine has been passed down for thousands of years Profound Don't say Tang Wanshan only has one breath Even if he I can save him too. good I want to see you How capable is it? Can bring the old man back to life Dean Chen Don't be tempted by his provocation. It's a lie He is a fraud. Charlatan How can you be so capable? Boy, I tell you If you dare to touch the old man I will fight for you If you dare to mess with the old My whole family I won't let you go Parents Don't worry. Grandpa asked him to come over He must have his reasons. Let Chu Fan give it a try Grandpa is already like this anyway What nonsense are you talking about? The old man is already like this Can you bear it? Let him be tortured before his death this What's more Even Dean Chen's medical skills are Nothing can be done He is a rural village doctor What can I do? Why do we need a solution? Seven silver needles are enough Damn thing What are you doing? What are you doing? Someone, arrest him for me. Dean Chen, what are you doing? etc. Beidou rises and falls, clears all diseases The meeting of yin and yang can cure all diseases Is this a long lost legend? Ghost Gate Seven Soul Needles Who are you? You have some knowledge, old man. Even the Ghost Gate Seven Soul Needles know Of course I know This Ghost Gate Seven Soul Needle is the medical immortal The creation was passed down by the heirs of the medical immortals of all generations However, the heir of the medical immortal Has not appeared in recent years So the medical community believes This needle technique has been lost. Could it be You are in contact with the heir of the Medical Immortal What kind of medical immortal is this? He was also so blinded Xiao Kuishou's He is now randomly inserting needles I think he just wants revenge. What Xiao Kuishou also said that he was Xiao Kuishou is seriously ill He must have been deceived. Kid Your intentions are too vicious. You guys are so noisy It really upsets me Wait a minute, I can't guarantee it. Can Tang Wanshan stay What sequelae will not be Chu Fan Even if you can't save my grandfather You can't mess around. Why This child can perform this Ghost Gate Seven Soul Needles The identity must be unusual Even if I am not the descendant of the Medical Immortal It must also be related to the descendant of the Medical Immortal Let him try good I'd like to see What tricks can you pull off? receive Tang Wanshan's illness was cured I cured him. cough cough dad Dad, you're awake. I'm alive Grandpa, you are still alive You are still alive Dad, how do you feel? I'm fine. My illness is cured. This little illness can't bother me. My disease It was really ruled by Chu Fan. grandfather It was indeed Chu Fan who was treating you just now Although it was that boy who stabbed me with the needle But it has always been Dean Chen is treating you Healed for a long time I think the dean cured him. He is just a blind cat that catches a dead mouse Dad, indeed. This guy randomly stabbed you with needles It's not treatment for you. He is taking this opportunity to vent his anger and revenge on you. Hum, you are so blind. Please accept me as your disciple. From now on I gave up Western medicine Change to studying Chinese medicine Please teach me medical skills. Dean Chen, what are you doing? He is a A liar who only knows how to fish in troubled waters What medical skills does he have? Don't be fooled by him. Come on. You have some knowledge, old man. But you're so old. Wait until you learn medical skills They have long been buried. Why not use your current medical skills? Go and treat the disease and save lives. Follow the Master's Teachings It turned out that it was Dr. Chu who saved me. Please accept my respect Dr. Chu Eighty percent of my Tang family's wealth I wish to offer all Please accept this, Dr. Chu. Dr. Chu Anyway This old man Tang has violated The Agreement with the Master That cured him. It's really cheap for him. Let him bleed as a punishment Oh, no need Tomorrow I will go to the Tianyu gambling stone field Buy some jade Why don't you just follow Be my ATM. Not to mention a few pieces of jade Even if it means my Tang family will go through The old man will definitely do it. Remember what you said See you tomorrow at the Tianyu gambling field good dad You are Old man Tang came quite early. Doctor Chu has something to ask of you My Tang family will definitely attach great importance to it. I don't know Dr. Chu What kind of jade do you want to buy I don't know if it's of good quality or not. Anyway, I just like it No matter what quality of jade My Tang family will do our best Purchased for Dr. Chu That's good, let's go in. See if there is anything you want Hey wait a minute Could it be that Dr. Chu It's for this Tianyu gambling earth and stone quarry The treasure of the town Dragon Stone Jade Dragon Stone Jade Hahaha Is this dragon stone jade? It is the best among jadeite Above the Emperor With the Dragon That is to say, this quality Above Imperial Green Formed in the ancient dragon If it is true as the legend says This dragon stone jade It must be a top-grade product that helps me practice. Um So how can I get Well Today this dragon stone jade As the finale baby The highest bidder wins the prize in a public auction. So, The competition will be fierce. If you want to get this jade Sufficient funds are enough So you have enough money? That should be enough. That's fine, let's go. Um Not a money-grubber. Hey, don't talk nonsense. Eighty percent of my Tang family's wealth It should have been given to Dr. Chu. Besides, Dr. Chu saved my Even if my Tang family goes bankrupt That's as it should be. Why is this country bumpkin here? You came just in time Today we will settle old and new accounts together Why are you two here again? Not you two. A follower? Wherever I go, you go Stop being so rude. Beijing Li Family But he is a famous collector I follow Li Shao Come to this gambling field See if there is any Eye-catching jadeite Isn't it as it should be? You're a country bumpkin. I also want to come to this gambling stone field to pick up leaks It's really hilarious Xiao Wange, Xiao Wange It seems that you were really deceived by him A native from another country How can I know about gambling on stones and treasure appraisal? He just takes advantage of you giving him money to spend Spend lavishly Just dreaming of being rich Li Yulou, who should I give money to? It has nothing to do with you I'm caring about you I'm afraid that he will cheat you out of your money and sex. Did you know Dog eyes look down on people Why Isn't it just gambling on stones? Who wouldn't? Oh He actually said he knows about gambling on stones I'm afraid I've heard this. The funniest joke ever What the hell are you laughing at? Isn't it just looking inside the stone? Do you have jade? What's so difficult about this? OK You said you know about gambling on stones, right? How about we make a bet? Good young master is afraid that you can't bet on anything Let's each choose a rough stone Afterwards, the stone Whoever offers the highest price for the jade will win If you win I'll pay a hundred times the price Buy the rough stone you choose Plus from now on No More Xiao Wange If I win I'm not only going to break your legs. Plus You have to kneel down and kowtow in public to Then learn to bark like a dog Chu Fan, let's not gamble with him The Li family is a well-known treasure appraiser family He is best at identifying stones and betting on treasures. You can't win Hahaha Dr. Chu I heard that the young master of the Li family I have been surrounded by antiques and jade since I was a child. This gambling stone treasure Although not as good as this senior master But it is also beyond the reach of ordinary people So I advise you to just be patient Don't worry Just take a look I will show my power to It's not about whether you dare to gamble or not. I'd like to let Look at this What does it mean to have someone outside of you? There is always someone better Chu Fan, or we Go find it quickly. Just a moment High quality rough stone They've all been bought. Dr. Chu Although I am not What is a gambling stone expert? But for jade Still have some understanding How about I help you choose? Need not I'll take a look. Really overestimating one's own abilities This piece of jade in the raw stone Although it is not yet reached Helping oneself to cultivate But it is already in the raw stone The one with the most spiritual power It must be worth a lot of money. I want him. Er Chu, the Divine Doctor You are kidding. Just this pile of broken stones Even if all are opened It is difficult to get a piece of jade Not to mention what will happen. High value jadeite Chu Fan, this is not a joke Are you serious? That's right, sir. He's the one I want. Don Go pay for me. I can't even take out 5,000 yuan. pauper This is really someone I have never seen before. Country Bum Someone pays You don't know how to spend You only know how to pick up these broken things, right snort Country Bum Gambling on stones and appraising treasures You are a lowly person. Untouchable Hum, I advise you Or just admit defeat Stop trying to attract attention here. I think you are the ones who should admit defeat. Don't be without money to pay later Ha ha My Li family's assets More than hundreds of billions Just a piece of waste stone I can afford it no matter how expensive it is not to mention Do you think you won me? Good to remember what you said Don't play tricks on me, old man. Hey, hey, good, good Poor guy Hey Qiuyue Don't be presumptuous The head of the Tang family is just a country bumpkin Why do you obey him? Qin Shaochu, the Miracle Doctor Cured my husband's illness Even if I am the Divine Doctor Chu Spending some money is nothing. You take this waste stone Why are you so happy? What an ignorant country I'll wait until you lose. Look at this young master I won't let you crawl under my crotch Hey, your suggestion is good. Wait, I won. I want both of you too. Get under my crotch. Waiting What about me You don't have to pay too much. The stone is compared with you I'll take this Worth five hundred thousand Let me bet on you. Come and open the stone May I ask you two Which piece of raw stone should be opened first? Which one to open first? Of course, I'll open this one There is nothing to see in his rough stone. If you open his first Just declare me the winner. It doesn't make any sense, right? The outcome is unknown I don't know what you are so proud of. Never mind. The result is the same. Open his first. Let him be happy for a while Boy, today I will let you Know Know Some things You are a lowly person who cannot touch me. If you touch it, you have to pay the price The first is gambling on stones Another one is Xiao Wange The raw stone purchased by Li Shao The glass-type emerald green Worth five million What It's increased tenfold 5 million Chu Fan You are on this rough stone Do you really have confidence? Don't worry, there is not a single rough Better than the one in my hand Ha ha How come you are about to die? Your mouth is still so hard Didn't you hear? Li Shao's original stone A jadeite worth 5 million was minted This broken stone in your hand Can produce 500 jade slag This is all due to your ancestors' good deeds. Hey haha Don't say I didn't give you a chance I'll give you a way out now. Kneel down and apologize immediately I'll let you live. Also need to add From now on Can't meet Xiao Wange I'll keep your legs. Let you go out to beg for food Dr. Chu I think I'd better forget it. Can open this Jade worth five million That's already very rare. What's more, you are just a broken stone The quality is still so bad I think there's no need to argue. Just give that Mr. Li a gift Isn't that the end? I apologize to him That's ridiculous. He was yesterday He even knelt down and licked my shoes. Grandpa, let him find it himself, don't bother him Boy, don't be too proud. today I will settle all the old and new accounts with you. You really won't cry until you see the coffin Wait a minute, your broken stone will open It's your death date Xiao Wange, I will make you understand later Choose this waste It's your life The worst decision I've ever made Grandpa, I think we are still Stay away Don't get involved with him. Well, our bet is not over yet Open Stone What good jade can this open? I really don't believe he can Better than Li Shaokai Mr. Chu Fan's waste stone The original stone produced imperial green Ah what Tianyu gambling stone field It's been a long time since I opened this The best emperor green Does Chu Fan really know about gambling on stones? impossible This country bumpkin How could you possibly know about gambling on stones? impossible You must have faked it. May I ask what is the value of this imperial green? This imperial green jadeite is the best Conservative estimate: 50 million 50 million Li Shao If this is true Then this country bumpkin wins Chu Fan We won Hey, I already said it We will definitely win Little white face Do you remember our bet? impossible You must have faked it. Or collude with them How to default on a debt Li Yulou Your Li family is also from Beijing. A first-class family How can I even make a small bet? I dare not admit it Who said I didn't recognize it? Five billion My Li family doesn't even care about it Get it What to take Money Bring me five billion Where's the money? Five billion. Ouch It turns out that the eldest son of the Li family He can only talk nonsense. Same as the untouchables you mentioned. Don't be complacent Here Kid Don't be complacent I will make you miserable. Always at your service Hello, everyone! My Tianyu Gambling Stone Field Will present to you High quality jadeite For everyone to bid This is the topic. Chu Fan seems to Li Shao and others Nine out of ten I came here for this jadeite. Don't worry, Old Man Tang is here. He did say I will repay you even if I lose everything I own Hahahaha uh That's natural Li Shao and his friends came here to participate in the auction No, it's not for this. Dragon Stone Jade Now bidding It is the treasure of my Tianyu gambling stone field. Dragon Stone Jade Although this dragon stone jade Being highly praised But no one can tell Why is it so valuable? Not good This is the Tianyu gambling stone field Fried by myself Sell it at a good price? Li Shao It seems that this dragon stone jade Not a lot of interest. If I hadn't promised Huang Tianhong Give him this broken jade I'm too lazy to come here. The Spirit Stone I'm Looking For That's it Really? Chu Fan, that's great. It means we didn't come here in vain. Still have gains Chu Shao Do you really want this dragon stone jade? Yes, I want this stone. This dragon stone jade It's from my Tianyu gambling stone field. The treasure of the town Priceless My shop cut love Take it out for auction The highest bidder wins Starting price: 500 million I didn't expect this dragon stone jade The starting price is so low I also play along Six hundred million It seems that this emerald No one was bidding. Maybe I can find a leak. 700 million One billion Li Shao is really For this dragon stone jade This move is 1 billion. I guess the total assets of my Tang family now Not more than 10 billion well There is no such qualification at all Participate in this auction Two billion Two Billion Chu Fan You are crazy Although you just came from Li Shaona got 5 billion You spent 2 billion to buy this broken This is too crazy. Boy, you want to compete with me in financial strength I'll show you today. My Li family's financial resources How strong is it? Three billion Oh three billion Did you see it? I'm not the only one who's messing around Uh this Five billion Are you looking for a country bumpkin? You dare to take Mr. Li's money? Come against Li Shao Who let this guy Steal things from me This is the stone I like. You're rich, aren't you? Yeah Then I will play with you today I see Tang family How much money can I give to play with you? One hundred million Ah, one hundred billion Li Shao actually offered 10 billion Buy this jade It seems that I really need to follow Dr. Chu It's on grandfather Chu Fan is not asking our Tang Take out the 10 billion. We will offend the Li family. Wait and see Hum, how about it? Do you still want to compete with me, country bumpkin? Even if it is the Xiao family I won't do it to a piece of trash like you. Spend so much money He was originally from the mountains The poor guy came out If the Xiao family hadn't taken him in I guess I can't even eat. I don't need it today. Any penny from the Xiao family Can also take this dragon stone jade 15 billion Oh, 15 billion. Mr. Li, do we need to raise the price again? What's your brain? 15 billion for my Li family What kind of expert can't be hired? For a Huang Tianhong flower 15 billion This kid keeps his mouth shut. 15 billion Where does he get so much money? Definitely fake We asked him to verify the capital on site If the money is not enough Don't even think about leaving this Tianyu gambling stone field Chu Fan, I'll call you now. Let grandpa transfer money to me Oh, no need I have my own arrangements. The boy surnamed Chu You dare to bid? 15 billion yuan Can you afford that much money? He is just A country bumpkin who just came to Tianzhou for a few days Where can I get so much money? You don't want to eat soft rice again Ask the Xiao family for money. I have money myself. No need to ask the Xiao family for Okay, that's what you said. Host, I report This guy is just a country bumpkin. Apart from the The five billion won there I have no money at all I asked the organizer to verify its capital Mr. Chu Since the other party Your financial resources are questioned To show Our organizers' fairness I hope you can show Prove that you are now Proof of financial situation Chu Fan Don't worry, sir. I have money grandfather Given the economic situation of our Tang family If we take out this 10 billion Assets also There's not much left Why can't I take it out? If you can't take it out Just admit it. You're here to cause trouble. Then let everyone supervise Accept punishment Mr. Chu If you cannot provide relevant evidence That is to disrupt our Tianyu Normal auction order of gambling stone field I won't let you leave easily Country Bum If you take out 5 billion now Apologize to Li Shao Li Shao can guarantee Spare your life Stop looking down on others. The price I can bid Of course, you can get the money. Hum Redneck If you don't rely on the Xiao family Take out this 15 billion Then I won't raise the price. You take that dragon stone jade It's time to make old man Tang bleed Don It's time for you to show off. Chu Fan, you saved my grandfather We promised to give you 80% of the family property as a reward But with our Tang family Current property But it's not enough to fill your 10 billion vacancies The Tang family is indeed ungrateful. As far as I know All your Tang family assets The total is only 10 billion If you want this kid Paid the 10 billion Your Tang family will go bankrupt. Tang Family Master If you help now This redneck pays You are against Li Shao. Chu Fan Sorry, we in the Tang family are powerless. I already knew about your Tang family. unreliable Fortunately, I am prepared. Come Credit Card Chu Fan Where did you get the money? How come I never heard you say that? My wife told me Don't show your wealth To prevent thieves from remembering oops Fortunately, Dr. Chu was able to solve it. If it is because my Tang family refuses Pay the bidding fee And bring disaster to it I am really to blame. Don't think you got a broken card You are arrogant If there is no money in the card You're still screwed this This is the Tianlong card. Li Shao, what is Tianlong Card? China General Chamber of Commerce Specially customized for the president Exclusive bank card The only one in the country I am also in my father's photo Just seen Is this true? I didn't expect this card to be so powerful. Could it be that the Third Master's Wife What Chamber of Commerce? The president has a relationship Of course. impossible Such a precious card How is it possible? You country bumpkin have Your card must be fake. It has to be you You are right. Hum, someone like you How is it possible? It will be related to the president This card of his must be fake True or false, you can tell by testing Woolen cloth grandfather You mean Chu Fan's card? Is it true or false? I don't know either. If you really can't pay Then our Tang family We can't just sit back and watch. But Grandpa Hey, I've made up my mind Card swipe failed The card swipe failed. I knew he was bluffing. I said this card must be fake I tell you this country bumpkin He is the best at deceiving people. The fact that the surname Chu is already in front of What else do you have Do you want to explain it to everyone? The Third Master's Wife is so unreliable This is really hurting me. Mr. Chu What other options do you have? Prove you can pay This 15 billion There are five billion Brush it first Card swiping successful Mr. Chu still has 10 billion left I don't know how you plan to pay Country Bum Wait a minute, you'll get 10 billion If you can't take it out By then Don't say you can't leave this Tianyu gambling stone field ) I can't let you go My Tang family was the first to betray Ruined engagement Now Chu Fan has forgotten the past Pull me back from the gates of hell If I break my promise to him again Isn't it unworthy of being a human being? You have legs, country boy. I'm going to order it today What are you waiting for? Visitors Take down this Chu Fan yes Wait a minute My Tang family is willing to give all our wealth Doctor Chu Pay the remaining 10 billion My Tang Family Where to go from now on? Don You still have some conscience. Dr. Chu Since I promised you I will never break my promise Tang Wanshan You are so brave. You are openly opposing Li Shao. You want you Is the Tang family bankrupt? I don't want to be an enemy of Li Shao It's just a promise to people It's just a matter of loyalty Besides, my Tang family is the Chu Divine Doctor After paying the 10 billion It's like bankruptcy I'm afraid Mr. Li Want to target my Tang family There's no way to start. Hello, Tang Wanshan What should Li Shao do now? Can I get this dragon stone jade? for me It doesn't matter much. But Chu Fan this kid I will get rid of it today and quickly Li Shao is right. This Chu Fan Not only do I steal women from you Again and again Shame on you Really arrogant. Visitors stop The grudges outside Outside solution Entered my Tianyu gambling stone field Or gambling on stones Or bid If anyone wants to cause trouble My Tianyu Gambling Stone Field No mercy No mercy Hey, you old man. You can do it And some of you Wait for me Let's go Mr. Chu Your Dragon Stone Jade And your black card With this dragon stone jade My power will definitely Soon reach the god level You can see the mistress later. Don My dear, I appreciate your performance today Very satisfied Dr. Chu What are you talking about? This is what I should do The surname Chu Now we are Tang family I don't owe you anything Why Autumn Moon Dr. Chu Qiuyue is ignorant Don't take it to heart Dr. Chu In order to thank you, our Tang family Saved my life Special Family Dinner Please give me the honor of seeing you, Dr. Chu. Hello You little bastard I walked for a few days without even a phone call. I don't know how to call a woman He actually married a wife. Forgot the Master's Wife The Third Wife You don't have to say anything now I decided to establish the China General Chamber of Commerce Leave it to you Just two days later Beijing Shengjing Hotel At the Four Seas Business Banquet Handover East China General Chamber of Commerce Compared with the Dragon Gate Saint Which one is more powerful? The China General Chamber of Commerce is different from Longmen It governs The economic lifeline of the entire Chinese nation Major Chambers of Commerce nationwide Annual trade share All are distributed by the China General Chamber of Commerce Do you think it is majestic? Sounds pretty good. Take the black card I gave you I will arrange for someone to receive you. Don't be late, boy. good What happened? I have to go to Beijing for something. Don Bring your family dinner Wait for me I'll tell you when I get back from the capital. I will decide by then Return this favor to you Say you want to repay a favor It's not like you just pat your butt and leave. China General Chamber of Commerce Send an invitation Two days later at Shengjing Hotel Hosting a banquet for all Banquet for the presidents of the four major chambers of commerce in China And the major families in Beijing Long time no show President of the General Chamber of Commerce Will be at the banquet Will be the president Give it to a mysterious person What China General Chamber of Commerce to change ownership Okay, I'll go back. Chinese Chamber of Commerce To hold a business banquet I have to go back immediately Chu Fan that kid Keep an eye on me. Wait until I finish my work. I'll deal with him again Li Shao This banquet for merchants from all over the world It's an extraordinary situation. Of course The entire Chinese business community The top bosses will be there Please ask Mr. Li Take me to this commercial performance Take you there Your Qin family now I don't have the qualifications. I know that the Qin family is of low status. But at least it is Famous family in Tianzhou I am in this Sihai Chamber of Commerce Always at your service Obey orders Wouldn't it be more obvious? The power of the Li family Good for you It's also good for the Li family In the major families in Beijing Adding luster to the front That makes sense. Then I'll take you Go to the Four Seas Feast Thank you for your cultivation, Mr. Li My Qin family's opportunity has come I will Get to know the dignitaries in Beijing Let my Qin family regain its glory This is Mr. Chu Yes, we confirmed it. His name is indeed Chu Fan And hold a Tianlong card Mr. Chu I am under orders Come and entertain your high manager What do you want to ask? Just tell me I didn't expect the Third Master's arrangement So thoughtful Yeah, that You here Is there a restaurant? Waiting for you all morning Wait until your stomach is almost empty Yes, yes, yes Mr. Chu, you are in this hotel All consumption Just give your name All free This feeling is good Then I'll go eat something first Qin Junhao, listen to me Can help you Qin family But it's not just Li Shao My Chen family will give you two projects at random It can also help your whole family recover Tianzhou's first-class family Miss Chen needs no further explanation Look at my performance You're smart. Why is this country bumpkin here? Don't waste food Bumpkin It's really a narrow road for enemies I actually met you here Why are you here? Kicked out by the Xiao family It must be that his pretending to be a miracle doctor has been exposed. There is no place for him in Tianzhou So Have to come to Beijing To make a living To avoid hunger Not that I found Wherever you two are Why does your mouth stink so bad? I tell you, country boy It's no use for you to be stubborn You have no woman You now even have one Poor beggars are worse than I tell you Today, my Lord I have something important to do. If you know what's best for you, don't mess with me. Business Not You What's the matter? Are you targeting me again? Which lady Thinking of marrying into the family and living off the woman Why Remember to eat but not to fight It seems to teach you Lessons learned, right? Bumpkin Do you think this is Tianzhou? Can let you do whatever you want This is the capital city. I won't let you run wild What happened to Beijing? As long as it's a place where people live Just tell me human words Stop barking here. waiter How do you do things? This Shengjing Hotel Such a high-end place How can I put A beggar comes in Affecting my meal Ms. Chen, please calm down. Our hotel I won't let beggars in. There must be some misunderstanding here. Misunderstand This person is standing here. What other misunderstandings could there be? Sorry, sorry. Ms. Chen, please calm down. I'll go see what's going on. Please wait I see You must have taken advantage of the security guards not paying attention. Sneaking in? Hey, I'm talking to Qin Junhao If you have any brains Neither will your Qin family Become like this now You should be less proud You didn't sneak in. Is it still I can't be invited in. Oh, that's right I was invited in. That's ridiculous. This Shengjing Hotel But the capital One of the best luxury hotels Affiliated to China General Chamber of Commerce How could someone please You, a beggar, come in. Isn't it a loss of self-worth? Since it is affiliated with the China General Chamber of Commerce Even if no one invites me I come whenever I want, sir. Go if you want You are still the same Outspoken With this country bumpkin I feel sick if I stay any longer. security guard security guard Get him out of here! gentlemen There are people here now I feel uncomfortable because of you We need to deal with it How did you get in? What are you doing here? What can you do in a restaurant? Of course it's eating. Can't you wash the dishes? Have a meal Who are you fooling? You know this dish? How much is it? Your life is not worth it A dish here Don't even look at yourself What identity Come here to eat Picking up leftovers means picking up leftovers Even if it's leftovers Give him food Better to give it to a dog What are you still standing there for? Hurry up and do it stop I see who dares Disrespectful to Mr. Chu I see who dares to Mr. Chu is rude Manager Gao, you are finally here. This is Hanako Not only did it disturb my meal, And beat people You guys have to be good Teach him a lesson You are so vulgar. What are you still standing there for? Why don't you clear him out for me? Visitors Please get these two out. What are you still standing there for? I I am from Beijing The eldest daughter of the Chen family Is a senior member of this Premium Member So what? Mr. Chu is Our hotel guests How can you humiliate me? I'm sorry, Mr. Chu. That scared you. I just received a notification Chairman Liu will be here soon. You can go first Sihai Merchants Banquet Hall VIP Seat No. 1 Take a break first I'll take care of the banquet. Coming soon good So I Soon I met my third wife. Li Shao Chu Fan, the country bumpkin It's also in Shengjing Hotel Li Shao You have to vent your anger for others. We just Being dragged down by that bumpkin Kicked out of the restaurant by Manager Gao Today's Four Seas Business Banquet Former President of the China General Chamber of Commerce Passing the throne to the new president My Li family has prepared a generous gift Want to get close to the new president I hope to gain his favor. Promotion in Beijing The power of each family Except this today Nothing else matters Everything is waiting for the banquet We'll talk about it later. If the Li family can obtain The new president's favor Can't the Li family Soaring straight to the sky Mr. Li, please don't Forget about our Chen family I hope Chu Fan, the country bumpkin Don't ruin my good deeds. Li Shao Look Mr. Li, look This country bumpkin How dare you come to the banquet? He doesn't want to die. He came just in time Mr. Li, you have to help them Get rid of that bad breath Li Shao can't let him Ruined your good fortune Otherwise, kick him out. You are right. Today's business banquet is about My Li Family Development Never let him Disrupt my good thing It's you two again. Not taught enough And brought him here Do you want to be taught a lesson by me? Country boy our business We'll figure it out later. Today I am Li's There is something important If you were more sensible Get out of here now The Li family's business is shit. It's none of my business Are you deaf, country boy? Mr. Li asked you to get out Didn't hear it I tell you I have something important to do today. Get out of here if you know what's best for you If it's delayed My business, sir. My wife is unhappy I have to be good Teach you not to You country bumpkin This is really nonsense. What can you do? You ran in just to Free food and drink But you're in the wrong place. Did You Know At this banquet of merchants from all over the world What kind of people are coming? You dare to act wild here? I don't know what will happen in a while You gotta think it over, country boy. You are in Beijing I angered my Li family How many heads do you have to lose? Balabala You guys are annoying What is your Li family? In my eyes, it's nothing. Walk away Walk away What are you doing Li Shao This VIP seat It should be given Prepared by the new and old presidents This country bumpkin dares to sit If he is not Not knowing how high the sky is and how deep the earth is There must be trouble today. If this is the new and old president Any one coming Must be furious By then, Li Shao's preparations Don't you want to take a bath? That's right Even if I delay today Drag him out for me. How many of you Why is it so annoying? I won't pay attention to you, sir. You guys cool down by yourselves. Where are you staying? Country Bum You know you now Whose seat is this? Of course it's for me. Your question Why are you so idiotic? Shameless This seat China General Chamber of Commerce Seats for new and old presidents You country bumpkin dare to sit here Get up and get out of here! Then I sit here It is only natural Country Bum This is not Tianzhou In Tianzhou, you can make a fuss as you please At worst, I'll just take it. A life But this party is different. As long as you make trouble Not just you Even the Xiao family that is related to you Even Gu Tianhe I'll have to die with you If you don't want to implicate him Sit up from here now. Get out of here! I'm sitting here today. I'd like to see Who can drive me away? Who else Will attack them Young This is quite a big tone young people Do you know that you are sitting here Will give yourself Will it bring disaster to you? Miss you young Leave quickly If you are angry President Tian Wei I will tear your bones and skin you The four great leaders showed compassion Spare you a way out I advise you to get out of here right away. ah Let me go They're not qualified yet. Sitting in VIP Seat No. 1 This is already a huge sin. Since I gave you a way to live You don't leave Then we have to I'm here to clear the place for the president. Visitors Get him for me stop Manager Gao Making trouble at a banquet You find someone quickly. Get him out So as not to disturb Dear distinguished guests, Mr. Li, please be patient. Four presidents Mr. Chu It was the president's order. Arrange in this VIP Seat No. 1 I think What the President arranges He must have a reason. If the president has instructions Then I'll wait I won't have any complaints Manager Gao, you must be mistaken. This person is Tianzhou Notorious for cheating on food and drink Specializing in defrauding the wealthy nobles of Tianzhou Even that Xiao Tairan, the leader of the Xiao clan in Tianzhou There is also the Northern Province Medicine King He's been cheated by him. Northern Province Medicine King He is the head of Longmen Medical Hall He was also deceived Absolutely true Everyone I, Li Yulou, can testify My friend is One of the victims of Tianzhou fraud The Li Family in Beijing It's also a big and well-known family. Not for this one Nobody makes up lies Could it be that Xiao Li really made a mistake? I thought you were a country bumpkin Just come to eat and drink I didn't expect you to be so brave. Dare to pretend The President's Guest A distinguished guest pretending to be the president Unforgivable sin When the Five Horses Dismembered How many of you Really eloquent Confusing right and wrong Then I want you to see What's this What's this Tiantian Dragon Card This card is the president Exclusive items If it is not the person who passed it on You will not get this card Where did you get this card from? Of course it was given to me by my third mistress. What's your third mistress's name? My third master's wife is Liu Ruyu Mr. Mo Feichu Chairman Liu The one who is about to pass on the throne The new president? The president really wants to pass on his position to A hairy boy If this is true This kid must have something extraordinary But now it seems He did not What convinces me That's right, this kid not only I am a waste And this fake card Cheating everywhere Yes, he also said The money in the card can be swiped at will Card swipe failed It was exposed in public. Uh, Mr. Chu Can you test it That card is the real Tianlong card The third mistress only told me Just take this card. But I was never taught how to use it. Why prove yourself? My Third Master's Wife will be here soon. Everything will be clear Bold First, a distinguished guest pretending to be the president Then take the fake Tianlong card Pretending to be the new president Open your mouth and shut your mouth You guys Something with no eyes You are really looking for a country bumpkin Lian Four Presidents You dare to tease me? Everyone I propose Let's solve it together first This country bumpkin In case the president comes later Not happy Instead, it involves me. Hey everyone I think I'd better wait Let's make a decision after Chairman Liu comes. Manager Gao He's just stalling for time. Wait till the president comes. He might make a scene What the heck? one way or another Take him down first. My Lord, today Just help me, Third Master Teach you guys a lesson Something with no eyes Snowflake Silver Seven out of ten come from Liumen Spend money to rule the world Merchants of the Universe Liu Ruyu arrives Liu Ruyu arrives Madam, I miss you so much presumptuous How dare you say that to the President Clumsy to blaspheme Boy, you are really brave. How dare you touch the president? Do you know the last Such a reckless scoundrel Cut off both hands and feet Make a human pig Starving A newborn calf is really not afraid of a tiger The Third Wife You are so fierce Madam, finish your business first. We'll talk later. I came here today Just one thing That is to Chairman of the China General Chamber of Commerce Pass it on to my disciples from now on He will replace me In charge of major chambers of commerce across the country Li Shao This country bumpkin It seems like he really knows the president. I can't care so much. Everyone My Beijing Li Family A set of Beijing Siheyuan Tianjin Port Terminal 1 A small island in the South China Sea Special congratulations to the new president You don't want to know Who is the new president? So anxious to give gifts No need to worry about visiting the wrong temple Since you are President Liu's disciple That must be the best among men. Definitely a role model for our generation I don't know the new president Where are you now He is on the scene The new president is here Why don't you show up? This is President Liu's disciple Refusal to reveal identity Have we offended anyone? Please ask the President to make it clear Let me wait A glimpse of the new president Please invite my apprentice New President of China General Chamber of Commerce Chu Fan Please invite my apprentice New President of China General Chamber of Commerce Chu Fan Ah, how is it possible? How is this possible? He is clearly a A redneck from the countryside How could it be Where is the president? He one Good-for-nothing country bumpkin How could he be President Liu's apprentice? Li Shao If he is really the new president Aren't we finished? From now on Chu Fan took over my Chairman of the China General Chamber of Commerce Major merchants in China Everyone respects him Congratulations to the new president Congratulations to the new president It turns out that the president of this chamber of commerce So majestic Needless to say I'll leave it to you next. Li Yulou Just now your Li family said Gift Does it still count? Don't be complacent, country bumpkin. I don't know what tricks you use Cheated Chairman Liu But your little trick There will always be a day when it is exposed You wait and see. Where do you want to go? What else do you want to do? Li Yulou You keep giving me trouble. I let you go again and again I didn't expect you to repent. In Tianzhou, you use your power to suppress others It's just you Relying on the Li family in Beijing Just status Today I will let you Lose it all My Li family is in Beijing Very deep roots Did you say that? It can move. Just a little Li family ant Immediately notify all major chambers of commerce in China Within one minute All business dealings with the Li family were severed. If you do not follow That's with me The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce is the enemy Do you dare Hello What have you done? It actually made all companies At the same time, Cooperation with my Li family Father is they in Humiliating me at the party Still constantly Humiliate our Li family Wait for me, I'll be there soon. I wonder who dares to touch my Li family I tell you My father will be here soon. And you Chu Fan Wait till my father arrives Bring the Li family's experts here I will tear you into pieces presumptuous How dare you be rude to the new president? You thought you were the first Are you threatening me? Dare to hit me Today I'll show you My Lord, I am awesome Did you all see it? This person made a scene at the party Are you guys Watching him act recklessly? Chairman Liu is present There will be a decision I can't wait to intervene Li Shao now the fact Already in front of us Why do you have to ask for trouble? Let your fart go What bullshit facts? who is he He's just a piece of trash. You didn't see him What was it like just now? One will only Hiding behind a woman A country bumpkin Maybe he used it What tricks deceived the president? You're still leaning towards him? Unrepentant Break his legs I tell you My father will be here soon. I want to see who dares to touch me I want to see who dares to touch me Hurry up! I don't know who dares to touch my son. dad Save me What mistake did my Li family make? Chairman Liu Actually cut off my Li family's retreat My son was beaten Lee Donghae, you are a bad parent Let him do whatever he wants outside Today, I dare to be in public Humiliating my disciple New President of China General Chamber of Commerce Do you think your Li family should be punished? Should you spank your son? A hairy boy He took over as chairman What a joke Li Donghae What are your qualifications? Questioning the Chairman's Decision Chairman Liu's Decision I dare not question Today my son At the Four Seas Business Banquet Disrespect for the new president My Li Family Willing to bear the consequences But Chairman Liu Look at me, I have been in the Li family for so many years. Resolutions on the Chamber of Commerce Without any objection Can you let my son go? I have taken the position of president Passed to my disciple Chu Fan How to deal with Li Yulou It's up to him to decide I don't predict dad This country bumpkin Fight with me for women in Tianzhou Oppose me everywhere Our Li family is now isolated It's all his fault. You shut up I'm here for my dog Apologize to you Can you let him go? Dad, why did you ask him? I want to eat his meat now. Drink his blood Mr. Chu Mr. Chu, please show some mercy. Old man, I tell you Your Li family If you want to retreat to the mountains Farming I can save his life. You fart Xie Tianhuang Chu Fan Take it President, be careful Li Donghae, how dare you Attack my apprentice Your Li family Do you want to disappear in China? He wants my only son Destroy the incense of my Li family I won't let him Li Donghae How dare you attack the new president? Do you want to rebel? The Chamber of Commerce cuts off the retreat of the Li family There is no need for my Li family to respect him. My Li family today Withdraw from the Chamber of Commerce Mr. Ghost King Save my son Give them all to me Lee Landlord It's not convenient to take action today You first compromise Wait for another day I will definitely support your Li family to succeed The top spot of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce President Chu I am blinded by lard Did something stupid I promise that from now on Huaxia Business Alliance No more Li family I, Li, will take my family and live in seclusion. Never enter the world Old Man You should have done this earlier. Since your Li family Willing to retreat to the mountains Farming Then I'll let him live. President Xie Chu President Xie Liu I'm going back to hide now Take him away quickly Why Where are you two going? President Chu In fact, everything I did All of them were coerced by Li Yulou My Chen family is dependent on the Li family Li Yulou has always been Family forces threaten me Said if I didn't listen It made my Chen family bankrupt Now the Li family is being punished by you It saved me from the fire. From now on I will serve President Chu What do you want me to do? What I do What do I ask you to do? You just do what you want, right? I let you Chen Yinyin Sweeping the streets in Shengjing for three years If your Chen family and you Any objections? The same fate as the Li family Chairman Chu, I was forced to do this I was forced Let me go, get out of here. Chu Fan Oh no no no President Chu, you know My Qin family is in Tianzhou Just a small family I followed Li Shao Come to this Sihai Business Banquet I just wanted to see the world. Who knows The Li family is still ruthless wild ambition Want to harm you I can't do this. Do you think I will believe it? Do you think I will believe it? Qin Junhao Since my grandfather After arriving at Tianzhou City You have been targeting everywhere And let the one with the surname Li Always targeting me from behind The source of all this It's all you Playing tricks behind the scenes Do you think I will let you go, sir. It's a pity I couldn't get you Do you really hate me that much? I hate I wish I could drink your blood Eat your meat You made me The pride of Tianzhou Became a joke to everyone You let our Qin family Become the last of Tianzhou You caused Tang Qiuyue to run away Do you think I can not hate you? Ahahahaha Until now You don't realize yet My own fault Think all this It's all caused by others There's no cure. today It's me and my third wife. A great day for reunion I'll spare your life From now on You Qin Junhao From now on in Tianzhou City Begging for a living As a beggar Your Qin family Removed from Tianzhou Except for Qin Junhao, All expelled from Tianzhou Get out of here! As for the four of you Listen to slander To me, the new President of the General Chinese Chamber of Commerce Rude remarks Should be severely punished Listen to slander To me, the new President of the General Chinese Chamber of Commerce Rude remarks Should be severely punished Please also ask the President From a light sentence I will wait for you later Only follow the president's lead But for the four of you To my third wife For the sake of loyalty I will punish you Seven days of contemplation Chanting sutras and praising Buddha Pray for my Third Wife Thank you, President Show mercy Get out of here! Third Sister, how am I? Was I awesome just now? I just watched you deal with these people. Use kindness and force Looks good He really looks like a big shot. Have you been lazy recently? How is the skill improvement? Still a little bit But the Third Wife I have found the Dragonstone Emerald Believe in my skills Soon I will be able to break through to the god level Dragon Stone Jade Very good Tomorrow, my wife will help you Breakthrough to God Level dad Chu Fan that kid My legs were ruined. You must help me get revenge You must help me get revenge Lou, don't worry. Today we are Li's The humiliation suffered I will let them Pay back a hundredfold Ghost King Today at the Sihai Business Banquet Why not take action Aren't you called the Ghost Country? The first killer? how Are you still afraid of a few women? Women They are not An ordinary woman I have been fighting them for more than ten years. They are equally matched No winner Now there is a Chu Fan That kid's skill Already above three women Although in recent days My skills have also improved. But the four of them joined forces I'm afraid I'll have a hard time coping. You useless thing Even a yellow-haired boy And several women Can't clean it up Our Lee Family Keep you a coward What's the use Better get a dog What are you going to do? What to do I'm at your Li's house It's for my convenience Hiding in the capital Now My magical power is about to be perfected I want you bunch of rubbish What is it used for? ah dad The Third Wife My skill Breakthrough to God Level I didn't expect this dragon stone jade The spiritual power contained So abundant You keep it It will be of great use in the future good The Third Wife Now you have reached God level Some things, Master I can also tell you Yesterday Lee Donghae The man in black behind The smell on your body is very familiar It is very likely The mortal enemy of the wives What Then I'll go now Catch him back Let me handle it, Madam. No This person's power is unfathomable Faner, you should go back to Tianzhou first. I'll go back and talk to your master. The Second Master's Wife Reunites Then I'll find you But Fan I just met up with you, Third Master's Wife. Separate again I can't bear to leave you Okay, we'll We can meet again. You damn Chu Fan Walking for so many days No news at all Then you will Don't come back again. I don't love you anymore Dead Chufan, stinky Chufan Um How did you know I was back? Oh, it's quite elegant. Alone Drinking Well, why are you back? It's really you Of course it's me No, no I must be drunk. I'm hallucinating I'm going to take a shower Are you okay? Why haven't I taken a shower yet? Just go to bed. I need to take a shower first Then you can go to bed. This drunk woman How can it be so scary? You are not allowed to peek Isn't this pure temptation to commit a crime? Chu Fan, aren't you not coming back? I'm so sleepy I'm going to sleep first My Master's Wife! Why didn't you teach me? At this time I should make one Or be a Liu Xiahui Why When did you come back? ah Chu Fan, when did you come back? Take off your clothes while you When you say you miss me You shut up I didn't see anything You're not going to Beijing. Have you met your mistress? Why are you back again? It's a long story My master's wife Arrive at Tianzhou soon Meet me ah Come to Tianzhou Hello Dr. Chu I heard you returned to Tianzhou The old man can't wait Call you My Tang family banquet has been prepared for a long time I hope Dr. Chu Please come Okay, old man. Since you are so Sincerely invite me Then I'll go there. Hey Nizi That old man Tang prepared a family dinner Say thank you to me Saved his life I think he is in the gambling field Helped me a lot I want to return the favor. Do you want to come with me? I won't go Me and the Tang family There was no relationship Especially that Tang Qiuyue I find her particularly unhappy. And the Tang family is fickle You must be careful when you go there I'll pick you up later. Don't worry I'll measure them. Don't dare to me What tricks are you playing? I'm leaving Chu Fan just paid 10 billion borrowing costs No way out Our Tang family is finished. Doctor Chu said To repay the favor of our Tang family I won't watch Our Tang family has fallen into decline. How are you, old man? Still believe his lies Now it's clear He was heading We came from the Tang family's property. You are right. At first we Willing to give him 80% of the family property He doesn't want In the end, he was fine We are the ones who are thinking about All the savings of the Tang family Anyway Doctor Chu saved my life Compared with my life Money is nothing. These days without money I can't live like this What time is it? Why hasn't Chu Fan come yet? He is guilty of a crime. On the surface, I agreed to come Our Tang Family Dinner In fact, he had already hidden himself. Bad old man I am coming Don I am coming You have a big shelf. Our family is waiting for you. Doctor Chu, you are finally here Come in, please Went to do something Wasted some time You are here But our Tang family You've squeezed me dry There's no oil or water left Tell me you're coming today What is the purpose Our Tang family's money Scammed Are you still thinking about our Tang family? I won't marry him. Don You Tang family Where is the thank-you banquet? It's obviously the Hongmen Banquet Doctor Chu, what are you doing? What are you talking about? Come come please I'm hosting a family dinner today It's for thank you Dr. Chu's life-saving grace No one is allowed Say something rude again dad You don't have to protect him. We, the Tang family, want to help him Took out all the property Look at him. Come to our Tang family Empty Hands The way our Tang family should be So we have some complaints. That's as it should be. It turns out it was the little master who was to blame I spent all your Tang family's money But I didn't compensate you. Don't worry Master, I promised old man Tang I will compensate him well. A great gift for you Tang family Don't brag about the gift. Everyday in someone else's house Eat and drink for free What great gift is this? It's a big gift You even have clothes on Can't afford it Wearing this coarse linen shirt every day Give us a gift Shut up, everyone. Shut up, everyone. Dr. Chu It's all because I don't discipline you. These young people will speak without restraint Don't take it to heart. Don't worry, old man. Their faces I've gotten used to it. I'm coming here today. Just to repay you for being here The gambling stone field did me a favor By the way, I will help you Tang family Recover Send you a fortune Dr. Chu This is true Haven't drunk the wine yet Already talking drunkenly Who do you think you are? What can you do to help us? Ask the Qin family for help from the Medicine King Haha, I'm afraid no matter if it's the Xiao family Still the Medicine King Not for You are such a small person. What's more, you want to help my Tang family More than 10 billion is needed I want to help you Tang family Why ask them? My words are enough Enough Chu Fan You make this look every day. Why are you so high and mighty? What are you so proud of? Aren't you just hooking up with Xiao Wange? Give the King of Medicine a Tender Aren't you just a lackey? Qiuyue, you are going too far. Dr. Chu I heard you want to help our Tang family You must have had a plan. I don't know how to help Don Even if I say it now You won't believe it either. Wait a moment You will know grandfather You can't blame us for looking down on him. Look at him. It's disgusting to look at. I didn't pretend to be The look of being high above My identity You can't even imagine Chu Fan I admit that you are indeed a skilled doctor. What might it be? What they say The heir of the medical immortal But what if you are a great doctor? Can you help our Tang family? Dr. Chu I, Tang Family, will provide you Paid 10 billion That's all my own will. So Don't take it to heart Although you said so, old man But my lord Never owe favors to others And what I just said It's not a big talk We will wait and see Everything will be clear. You spent tens of billions of our Tang family You don't owe it to me. 10 billion Look, he came to Tianzhou. Have you ever had 100 yuan? It's other people's money. You ask him to pay back the money Might as well let him go. Every penny I spent I deserve it. What does it have to do with you? Deserved You made a bet with Li Yulou Spend our Tang family 10 billion You deserve it too. So you think This 10 billion is more than you The old man's life is more important. you I didn't mean that. Okay, stop arguing. I asked Dr. Chu today. To thank him. No one is allowed to mention What about the 10 billion? Otherwise, get out of here. Don It seems so My first gift to you. It should have arrived What is the National Chamber of Commerce? By order of the new president of the Chamber of Commerce Inject 30 billion into our Tang family Inject 30 billion into our Tang family What 30 billion Our Tang Family Chamber of Commerce No communication Why does the Chamber of Commerce Inject capital into our Tang family grandfather Then our Tang family is Back to the top again Hahaha This is Gift from Dr. Chu Hey Dad Don't listen to this guy's nonsense. I heard Mr. Qin went with the Li family China General Chamber of Commerce What's your name? Four Seas Business Banquet Could it be that Young Master Qin Outstanding talent Appreciated by the President of Huaxia General Chamber of Commerce For my Tang family Benefits obtained Right, right, right Now except for Qin Shao Who else remembers our Tang family? It must be Master Qin who helped us It has nothing to do with him Chu Fan Qin Shao must be I still miss Qiuyue And now he is on the rise I think of Qiuyue again Qiuyue waited for him to come back Repay well Hey, what do you know? Qin Shao was Favored by the President of the Sihai General Chamber of Commerce He's back here. What is Little Tianzhou doing? Who knows? Soon our daughter Pick up to Beijing Qin Junhao has come back a long time ago He is now Begging on the streets of Tianzhou The Qin family had already All evacuated from Tianzhou Dr. Chu is serious. Absolutely true In order to steal the credit from Mr. Qin You tell lies This is a typical villain image. Oh, ignore him. The credit belongs to whoever deserves it. Leave him alone Don The 30 billion just injected Just consider it as paying you back Help me at the gambling field Auction payment Next this one My gift to you China General Chamber of Commerce 100 billion contract China General Chamber of Commerce 100 billion contract Dr. Chu Where does this come from? Is this Could this also be a gift from Young Master Qin? You got a fake contract. Fooling our Tang family What do you mean? This contract is fake. This contract is real. Tang Dong, why do you say that? Come and have a look. There's nothing on this Signature of the President of the Washington Chamber of Commerce This is a void contract. Okay, you Chufan You got a fake contract. You come to humiliate us. Just say he is like this A lowly peasant How could there be a 10 billion contract? Dr. Chu What is this? What's going on? I forgot to sign You are This is a joke on our Tang family. Chu Fan We respect you You saved my grandfather's life. Doesn't mean you can Treat us like fools I see this thank you banquet It's totally redundant What we do Careful meals Better feed the dog Dr. Chu This is no joke I'm not kidding. I really am New President of the Chamber of Commerce The more you talk, the more outrageous it gets. grandfather You trust him so much He is now We are playing fools. Dad, that's him. Relying on the grace of saving your life To our Tang family Act recklessly In this case It's better to kick him out. Dr. Chu What else do you have Want to say something? Why I didn't lie to you, old man. I really am New President of the China General Chamber of Commerce Dr. Chu The old man is sincere I want to thank you But you pretend President of the General Chamber of Commerce What fake contract? Come to play tricks on our Tang family Why Chu Fan You are not welcome in our home. Get out Hello Oh no, Holy Lord The Ghost Country Killer captured Xiao Wange Let you go to the abandoned factory in the western suburbs immediately Less than 30 minutes Xiao Wange passed away Dare to move Xiao Wange court death Since you, the Tang family, don't know what's good for you The Chamber of Commerce is right Your investment is cancelled This 100 billion contract This is void You see, he is The lie was exposed Get angry out of shame It's just a waste. President of the Chamber of Commerce Not sure where I heard a name Just put it on yourself Hello The president of the National Chamber of Commerce has stepped down Passed the throne to his disciple Chu Fan The new president is really Chu Fan What elegy Ghost King, right? It seems I don't have to do it Introduced myself You led me here What do you want to do? Now that you know who I am You should know I and your three wives The grudge between Since you are looking for me, I am coming You let her go She may be important to you. To me, I'm a mediocre person. Now that you are here She doesn't need to live anymore. Let her go Go back to your damn country. I can still spare your life But Let me see first You from your three wives So what did you learn? Holy Lord, be careful I said why are you so arrogant? It turns out that he has reached the divine realm But so what Your foundation is unstable How come you're with me? You will die today. Kid You are very lucky Death is imminent. And a confidante Accompany you on the road That's good I will fulfill you today Don't hurt my disciple. Three Masters He is a god-level master Just look at your three wives. How to deal with this Japanese dog The three of you It's also good to send it to your door Saves me a lot of effort Ghost King We fight openly and secretly So many years You have been thinking about it Want to invade China But again and again We three worked together to defeat him. It's time to wrap up today You three were cunning before. Like a fox Hiding everywhere Now that it's delivered to your door I will put you Solve it together As long as you Chinese Medical and Military Business The leader of the three realms dies I am Japan I can take advantage of the opportunity to sneak in haha wishful thinking Now we Already has a successor Even if the three of us die in battle today China will also have successors. I didn't expect that the three of us would work together. No one is his opponent I didn't expect him to improve so quickly. Ha ha You will all die here today. You are already superb Master's Wife Call Master's Wife Master's Wife Master's Wife Master's Wife