Welcome to another Mathologer video. Have you the existential crisis in maths that was triggered of his lanterns. Looks like something from IKEA, version of the lantern. And what about this? before I inflict some serious existential crisis a superviral maths meme :) The pi = 4 paradox. over the whole thing to refresh our memory. diameter 1. Not a big deal. For later, what's the for the circumference is pi times the diameter square around the circle. It says here that the because we need 4 of those diameters to build the It says that the perimeter of the new shape is same? Well let's have a close look. Cutting off part and moving it here. This means that when we the perimeter is still 4. Now, in the same way, before the perimeter stays unchanged. It's still will always be 4. At the same time, our zigzag that the perimeter of the circle is equal to 4. In you seen this one before? Versions of this little years. A real classic. Now at the end of this meme we have a problem here, but why Archimedes? Well, estimate the value of pi. Start again with the we are chopping the corners off like this. So the literally cutting corners here, it's clear that 4. In fact, it's 3.31 and a bit. Cutting all with perimeter 3.18 and a bit, etc. Keep cutting the circle again. At the same time the perimeters value of pi. Anyway, as we've seen, approximating values. How can we be sure which is the right a circle what is its length anyway? Right, not something straight, measuring its length is not a nice smooth, curvy curve? How do you measure its curve like this. Some of Andrew's animation magic friend from the last video? He also suggested the animations that you'll see today. Well, rolling theory that's a perfectly fine way to define this :) How about in practice? How would you go this curve? Well, something like what we just did by another curve consisting of straight-line segment by segment, to get an approximation of the about finding a good straight-line approximation to mind here doesn't involve chopping off corners, curve and connect them by straight lines. And now of the actual length of about 15, but not bad. If we just go for a finer approximation by finer and finer straight-line approximations with give the exact length of the curve. In fact, if we possible to prove mathematically that no matter as long as the lengths of the individual segments exact length of the curvy curve. No ambiguity types of chopping corners. Of course, most of you Archimedes also honed in on the circle exactly ways of approximating the circle from the outside legendary boxing in of pi. There Archimedes famous when you have a closer look, is really just ready for some Schwarz Lantern magic? Great :) just the limit of the lengths of finer and finer obviously, something similar should also be true for example, a sphere, and highlight a couple of triangles. Wait can't see anything so let's make sphere to get a better approximation. More points. the sphere, right? And the easily measured must definitely be very close to the surface area those triangle edges shrink to zero aaand, in this indistinguishable from the sphere and 2) the areas the area of the sphere. Obvious, right? :) And surface. Right? Well, yes and no, not at all shrink to 0 the triangle approximations become their areas do not necessarily approach the mathematician Hermann Schwarz published his a nice cylinder surface gets honed in on by some the Schwarz lanterns. Surprisingly, if you choose as you refine them, their areas do not approach you can make the areas of these lanterns the cylinder's surface area, you can even isn't it? And of course, that's a big problem. If area by refining triangle approximations keels how can we calculate surface area reliably at be a big task for mathematicians. In the rest lanterns foils our method of calculating area and surface area. I'll also show you how the pi=4 also have some origami and can-crushing fun with so how exactly do the Schwarz lanterns mess up a cylinder? Let me show you. In keeping with our cylinder, one with surface area equal to pi. height of the cylinder is 1. This means that that into this cylinder. First the circumference of And then there is the area of the blue cylinder, height which is also pi. To construct one of split the cylinder into four equal horizontal of the circles like this. Put in the triangles, lantern has four horizontal bands of triangles and Here are a couple of other lanterns with different finer lantern approximations of the cylinder, we So, let's do some cranking. Okay, start with this one band throughout but crank up the number of like a cylinder and their areas approaches pi. let's crank up the number of bands but let's number of points stays 5 throughout. The lantern pi but now watch that area as we crank up the but look at that, the area is now greater than pi these lanterns explode to infinity. Really? Yes! formulas, just have a look inside the same setup bands. Alright. So from this viewpoint it becomes basically the same area is added to the lantern thinner the triangles will go flatter and flatter here. And this same area added infinitely often explode to infinity! Easy :) Well, at least that's It's pretty easy to see that for the same reason, and then cranking up the number of bands will with the number of point 7 instead of 5. Again, we often as we crank up the number of bands and explode to infinity. Alright, are the lantern famous counterexamples? Well, we are refining Looking good :) However, these particular lantern remember, the triangle refinements we did for the zero. There. And, as the edges shrink to zero, the from the sphere. On the other hand, the edges in zero. At the same time, our lantern approximations the lanterns don't look more and more like a top our lanterns look more and more like this. refinements so far, we are only upping the number triangle edges shrink to zero, and in this way indistinguishable from the cylinder, we have to points go to infinity. At the same time, we want infinity. Sounds tricky but here is an important ways to simultaneously let both numbers go to way that ticks all the boxes. This then amounts with the number of points being 4. For B we choose the lantern is greater than 4. Why do we know that course, because if we leave the number of points the area explodes to infinity and so at some point special b happens to be 7. So, the lantern with 7 lantern has 5 points. What's the b this time of bands such that the lantern has area greater so on. So, the next p is 6, we also want to have of bands that does this is 26. And then p=7. and ticks all our boxes. Right? Both the number of that the edges of the triangles shrink to zero. edges shrink to zero, the lantern approximations after a while you will only be able to see the areas explode to infinity because we've made sure its number of points. Right the first lantern has next greater than 6, then 7, 8, 9 and so on. this particular proper triangle refinement of our badly. Professor Schwarz wins. :) And he's happy. that behave nicely and give the correct area. points 4 bands, 5 points and 5 bands, 6 points and turns out that the area of this lantern refinement cylinder. The lantern on the left with 10 points of the lanterns. Unlike in our counterexample, the out meaning that basically every little triangle cylinder. With a more detailed analysis using the refinements whose areas approach any number the limit area 4. If we wanted our Schwarz lantern version we started with, we could replace the cylinder, the sphere and really any curved surface refinements whose limit areas can be anything Okay some of our triangle refinements work and don't is not only of theoretical importance curved surfaces by triangulated surfaces using refines the triangulation, buckling is likely to end up pointing all over the place, virtual light weird visual artefacts. So when constructing all corners of the triangles are on the target we also have to ensure that the triangles hug exactly how well a triangle hugs the target one of its surface normals, that is, a spike hedgehog lantern that I showed you before. If then there is a lot of buckling. What you want is for the spikes in the approximations to point surface, like in this example. The same sort of refinements of curves do the right thing. Take, the beginning. Bad because the spikes don't end the buckling of the curve leads to excess area in approximations in which all corners are on the the spikes automatically align themselves in the problems don't you think? Archimedes would also may be thinking: Didn't he say something about an the resolution of our problem wasn't that hard to stressing throughout this video that all the curvy nice and smooth. If you try to measure the are themselves buckling like crazy, things like works for smooth curvy curves and surfaces does Mathematical missions like the quest to properly branch of mathematics called measure theory. that was all very serious. Now to finish, let's at the lanterns themselves. You probably already clones of this isosceles triangle. Isosceles, so 2 green plus one red is equal to 180 degrees. Now can we say about the angles around the corner? angle sum that I highlighted up there of course. This means that if we cut the lantern here the went wild with this idea and put together a nice Here is a clip of one of those seriously buckled virtually superimposed onto Andrew's backyard. app via the link in the description of this the background is? Andrew's also made a video that our lanterns fold flat also means that a flat piece of paper. I'll include a link to a lanterns in the description of this video. Very the fact that our lanterns can be folded from flat right conditions lantern patterns show up in the Right, a cylinder is just a flat sheet rolled follow some of the links in the description. In fun to be had with empty soda cans. For the rest this and before you discard them :) As usual for you in this video in the comments. If there that's it for today. Merry Christmas. To finish soda can into a nice lantern sculpture.