Hello friends! This recipe will help you lose weight quickly! 3 chicken eggs. Turn on subtitles to find out more! Eggs contain all nine essential amino acids needed for protein synthesis in the body. Salt. mix. Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos? 300 ml kefir or yogurt. mix. Protein is easy to digest and promotes tissue growth and repair. 200 grams of flour. Flour is a rich source of carbohydrates that provides the body with energy. Baking powder. mix. The fiber contained in flour promotes the growth of beneficial bacteria in the intestines, improves digestion and maintains healthy intestinal flora. young cabbage. If you like the recipe, be sure to send it to your friends and acquaintances! Cabbage contains vitamins C, K, A and B6 as well as minerals such as potassium, calcium, magnesium and iron. Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant that supports the immune system and promotes healthy skin. Potassium and other microelements in cabbage help lower blood pressure and support cardiovascular health. The anthocyanins contained in red cabbage reduce the risk of heart disease. Onion. Do you have a favorite recipe? Write it in the comments! Onions are rich in antioxidants, especially quercetin. Quercetin and other compounds found in onions have anti-inflammatory properties. They help reduce inflammation in the body, which is particularly beneficial for chronic inflammatory diseases. Olive oil. They help reduce inflammation in the body, which is particularly beneficial for chronic inflammatory diseases. Fry for 3-5 minutes. 1 carrot. If you want to lose weight, be sure to check out the other videos on my channel! Onions help lower bad cholesterol (LDL) and maintain good cholesterol (HDL). The vitamin A found in carrots plays an important role in maintaining a healthy immune system. It helps the body fight infections and maintains healthy skin and mucous membranes. The potassium contained in carrots helps regulate blood pressure, thereby reducing the risk of hypertension. Fry for 3-5 minutes. Controlling calorie intake is important, but it is equally important to consider the quality of food. Try to eat natural, minimally processed foods that are rich in nutrients. mix. Vegetables and fruits are a source of vitamins, minerals and fiber and are low in calories. Olive oil. Add them to any meal to bulk up your meals without adding extra calories. Fry for 5 minutes. The vitamin K found in cabbage is important for bone health as it promotes calcium absorption and prevents osteoporosis. Let's make the sauce! 2 spoons of yogurt. Mayonnaise 20 grams. Garlic. Garlic has powerful antimicrobial properties that help fight various infections. Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos? Drinks like sodas, juices, and alcohol can be high in calories and easy to forget about. mix. Switch to water, tea or coffee without sugar to avoid extra calories. Olive oil. If you like my recipes, you can support me! Become a sponsor of my channel! Fry for 3-4 minutes. Large quantities of healthy foods can also contribute to weight gain. Learn to control your portions and use smaller plates to avoid overeating. Fry for 3-4 minutes. Eating regularly with small snacks can help maintain energy levels and prevent overeating at dinner. Try not to skip breakfast and ensure a balance of carbohydrates, proteins and fats at each meal. Lack of sleep can slow your metabolism and increase your appetite due to increased levels of the hormone ghrelin. Cucumber 1 piece. The B vitamins contained in cucumbers support the functioning of the nervous system, improve mood and reduce stress levels. Cucumbers contain antioxidants like beta-carotene, which can help improve eye health. Some studies show that cucumbers can help lower blood sugar levels. mix. Did you like the recipe? Show it to your friends! Connecting with people who are also trying to lose weight can motivate and support you on the path to your goal. It is very tasty and healthy! Can be eaten for breakfast or dinner! Eat as much as you want and get rid of belly fat! If you want to lose weight, be sure to check out the other videos on my channel! 2 recipe! 1 chicken egg. Salt. 200ml milk. mix. 130 grams of flour. Half a teaspoon of baking powder. Gradually pour in the milk and egg. mix. Include a variety of foods in your diet to avoid boredom and malnutrition. Experiment with new recipes and foods to maintain your interest in healthy eating. Cheese 150-200 grams. Be sure to eat the cheese! It's rich Cheese is one of the best sources of calcium, which is essential for maintaining healthy bones and teeth. Regular consumption of foods containing calcium, such as cheese, helps prevent the development of osteoporosis and maintain normal muscle function. Corn 60 grams. The iron and vitamin B9 (folic acid) in corn support blood formation and can help prevent anemia, especially in pregnant women. Olive oil. Olive oil contains oleocanthal, which has strong anti-inflammatory effects. Over low heat under a lid Regular consumption of olive oil is associated with improved cognitive function and a reduced risk of neurodegenerative diseases. It turns out very tasty and healthy Like and subscribe to my channel!