Hey, guys. Toby Mathis here. And today we're going to go over which is how to pay 0% on capital gains going to surprise some of you. But there's actually three ways, where you can just avoid There's two of them that are permanent. One of them that's going to require But let me go over these going to talk about real estate. So when I'm selling real estate gains on it, We're not talking about some of these other secondary items, to push those out, too. I'm going to specifically talk about capital gains and on a couple So let's dive in. Number one, when you own a an investment property, you have the right to do Here's the funny thing is but you must recapture it when you sell. And this is not considered It's part of the gain, but it is And so what we're grabbing here is Let's say that you bought a property. Let's say it's a single family home So you have $150,000 of depreciable basis and you're going to, you know, Or if you do a cost sig, you'll be five, seven, 15 and 27 The point is, is that you're because that property is going to have Right. Like the IRS says, it has a useful life So that's depreciation. The IRS says you can write that off to offset So we see this a lot of times and they might use it as a vacation home and they'll just be like, Well, here's the problem So if you haven't been taking depreciation you can be in for a nasty surprise. But that is not considered capital gains. What we're really looking at on capital gains I wasn't using as investment property. I don't have any recapture. It's the difference between my basis You can adjust that basis by adding but at the end of the day, I'm going to be most likely long term And here's two options when you sell your house, number one is you have something called a 121 up to $250,000 of capital gains or $500,000 of capital gains So it's this kind of cool thing or say I bought a house for $200,000 And ten years later, We we or two years could the last two years typical and it's gone up in value you know subtract off some of the Maybe that maybe I have have improvements But let's just say for sake of argument that we're talking I would pay zero tax on that ever. No recapture, no worrying about, hey, or anything? No, that's just a stone cold. You don't have to pay any tax on it on your capital gains on that property, And that exclusion says, I lived in it for two of the last five years. So 24 of the last 60 months It's in my name. It's my house, and voila, I magically get this big old exclusion And people are very aware of it. You know, nowadays, hey, we've we've seen appreciation And so they all have to be Otherwise they're going to surprised Almost all accountants It's not a it's But you will still want to make sure And so, hey, It doesn't matter means I never have to pay tax on it You never have to pay tax on it similar situation Maybe I'm a retiree and I sell my house. I bought it for 200,000. Now it's adjusted basis. After years of doing some improvements let's just say that I have $50,000 again and I'm a retiree in a husband and wife That $50,000 on top of it is going to more than likely because the long term capital gains rates You have to and you look at it and you say, all right, in my falling. Below that, you get your standard and you look at it going, long term capital gains bracket. I do not have to pay any tax on that. You'll never have to pay a tax on that. So that is way number two. So we had the 121 exclusion if it's low enough, it's And I get into arguments with accountants year after year because I look at people and they might be making 30, 40, and they have unrealized long term And I'm yelling at them, sell that. Get up to the point where it's still 0% so maybe sell $20,000 your stock And their accountants lose their mind rule. And I'm like, No, You can do this on gain It's recognizing gain or let's say that you have a business, and in a business loss or you love investing in oil and gas you could sell property and have capital And a lot of times if you're one of those people bracket, I'm just telling you, it's grand where the long term capital gains, If you're single. But you could have that So, yes, you could have income and And by the way, things like dividends dividends, they are also taxed So they're at zero. So I always look at those folks are, Like there's there's so much cool stuff There's a 0% bracket and you'll never have You don't have to reinvest it. You just get free money. It's So you have 0% capital You never have to worry about it Now, the third way is the most common and that's by buying more real estate. It's called a 1031 exchange, Now, can we do this with there's no other types of assets, and you buy more investment property a time frame, 180 days, you have to You can you can do multiple properties, 200% of the value of the house of you Like, there's there's there's some rules But here's the gist. You don't have to pay tax on the capital tax on the recapture slows to two So you know go back to the situation that you lived But let's say that before you sold it. Well, now you're going to have depreciation, recapture you're going to have to actually marry which you can do. The IRS tells us exactly how to do it, for that capital gain exclusion, having recapture on the depreciation, especially if you did a cost seg other passive income on something else But it's a fantastic tool So that 1031 exchange becomes your friend And all I have to do is keep buying more I can't have, when I buy these properties. So I can't just go out where I'm walking over the bunch of cash I'm investing the money and I'm going to continue And the really cool part here is that at the end of the day, in a taxable transaction, So as long as you're always 1031, your basis on those property On the day that you passed away, It means that for tax purposes, market value of the day that you passed, they pay no tax So what happened to all the capital gains you've been rolling forward? So a you know, 30 years ago and it went up to four. Those went up to $300,000 each. I sold those and bought five properties. Those went up to $400,000 each. And I had a $2 million portfolio. I sold those and bought some more. And now I have this portfolio of two and I've never And all I do is I pass away. And now if my heirs sell that two and a half million dollars My taxes or their taxes? Zero, right? I've never have to pay tax on that. So I just showed you three ways gains on real estate. I know there's tons of other cool but those are the three big main ones And if you're catching that bug lots of cool stuff in the tax code, Don't worry, Subscribe this channel. I'm always putting out content like this and if you think that this would benefit And then, even more importantly, put them down in the in And if it looks cool, I'll cut a video on You designate. Thanks, guys.