Hello everybody! I'm Dr. Mozar Suzgan, this is my channel, Your Cardiologist, and today I'm going to explain to you 7 signs and symptoms of thrombosis in the legs. First of all, I would like to kindly ask you to subscribe to my channel, leave a like on this video, leave comments, it is a pleasure to always respond to all of you. That way YouTube will understand that this video has quality information and will bring information to more and more people. Let's get there in the thousand subscribers. So today I'm going to tell you about 7 signs and symptoms of thrombosis in the legs. First of all, everyone, everything I'm going to say here, as everything I always say on this channel, is in an informative context. So I want you to learn, I want people to understand, for them to take better care of their health, for them to suddenly help a colleague in a conversation, for this colleague to look for a doctor so that he can make the diagnosis, so that he can be treated, it's OK? So let's go. What does thrombosis mean? Thrombosis is when you have the formation of a clot, perfect? The clot can form in the veins or it can form in the arteries. So let's try to differentiate here. I have deep venous thrombosis, which the name says is in the veins. So it's this type of thrombosis, it's the one that is most common, we see the patient sometimes with a swollen leg, one leg only swollen, the one that you must have heard about, you must know someone. Arterial thrombosis is that thrombus that forms in the arteries. The leg arteries when they become clogged, in a similarity, for example, with the heart, will cause less blood to reach a region of the leg, for example. So, imagine if you have a blockage in an artery close to the foot, then the blood will stop reaching the foot. So that foot will have all the symptoms of ischemia. So this patient will have pain, he will feel a weight, he will have a burning sensation, he will have a cold foot, right? So we have venous thrombosis and arterial thrombosis. Today I'm going to tell you about 7 signs and symptoms that will draw attention to these two types of thrombosis. It's OK? So let's go. Number one, pain. Both types of thrombosis are painful. One of them, which is arterial, which will cause ischemia, there will be pain due to the ischemia, there will be cells dying due to lack of blood nutrition. And deep venous thrombosis, which is the obstruction of the vein, she will not have ischemia, which is this lack of blood nutrition, but she will have swelling in the leg, and this swelling will sometimes cause nerve compression, this swelling will cause local pain, it will cause the skin to dilate, so this will all be painful. So, what sometimes is a tightness, a burning pain, the limb becomes heavy. So pain is the first sign, this symptom I wanted to tell you here. This will mostly happen with thrombosis in the leg veins. What happens? The veins take the blood that was taken by the arteries and return this blood to the circulation to return to the heart. That will stay in our veins, the more blood there will be dammed. So this leg will swell, because this dammed up blood will overflow liquid. Then the liquid will come out of this blood, it is not blood, it is blood liquid, and it will cause the leg to swell. So the swelling in the legs, it will bring about this hardening. If you look at the patient's leg, there's the leg you're going to do the physical exam on and the leg isn't soft like the other leg, it's harder. So we even do a propedeutics exam, we palpate the calf of this patient and usually, in the case of venous thrombosis, it is hard. A leg potato that is hard. You palpate another leg potato and it's a little soft. It differentiates. 3, personal, tingling. Tingling can arise in both types of stomachs. Why does tingling happen? Because there is some change in the nervous system in that region. So, both the contravenous arterial, they can cause alteration in different ways, they can be more different ways too, which will give a tingling sensation. So, the patient, sometimes, the foot starts tingling in the fingers, tingling in the sole of the foot, the calf starts tingling, the ankle. So this, when it is unilateral, is an alarm signal for thrombosis. Of course, Mozar, this can happen if the patient twists the foot, of course. It could happen because he had an injury there in the muscle. Of course, it could happen because he was sitting on his leg, of course. So, remember that everything I'm telling you can have different differential diagnoses, but this tingling is something we often see in patients with an acute case. 4. Throbbing. The leg feels like it's going to explode there, it feels like there's something ... You know when you hit your arm and there's that throbbing? So this can happen in thromboses of the legs. So the throbbing, when it comes only in one leg, when it appears sharply, that's when I want to draw attention. Both in the case of tingling and throbbing, when something comes on more abruptly and there wasn't, you know, obviously I wasn't playing soccer, there wasn't a trauma, it wasn't just sitting on the leg, oops, that draws a lot of attention to an acute condition there of thrombosis. So remember, whenever it's sharp like that, that there's no clear trigger, it draws a lot of attention. Guys, throbbing and tingling can also be sciatic pain. Remember this pain? From sciatica. Obviously there's another pattern, another type. Can it be sharp? It can also be acute. Number 5, skin color change . So the skin can become more bluish, it can become whiter, paler, it can become more reddish. So in cases of venous thrombosis of the veins, it tends to become more bluish, more reddish. It gets really turgid there and it's more like a red tone. Arterial thrombosis , which is due to ischemia, it will cause more skin pallor there, the leg, because it has no blood, it will become whiter, it can even turn blue too, as well as in the vein. But in the physical examination, when the doctor looks around, and in fact he is able to differentiate very well if it is a venous or arterial thrombosis, okay? But when the color of that leg changed, it drew a lot of attention to a picture of thrombosis. Number 6, when you have, in the case of venous thrombosis, you have a swollen vein that you can see, so you know the varicose veins? It's these veins we see, when there's a turgid vein, it's more swollen, it's thicker, it's painful, we can have thrombophybitis, you know, which is an inflammation with an infection over there in that vein, yeah, another inflammation , but this thrombofibitis can also be a sign that you are having a venous thrombosis. That the venous network, it's so engorged, right, imagine a ring road, for example, it's the congestion that's being created, so that blood gets all congested there, so sometimes, a more superficial vein, it can get hard, it can get painful, it can get more swollen. So that gets a lot of attention. Number 7. Change in temperature in that leg. So, in the case of thrombosis, the leg can tend to get hotter, but it can also get colder, venous thrombosis. In arterial, as there is ischemia, this leg will be colder. Imagine that there is no blood, so that leg over there is getting colder. Venous thrombosis, over time, of course, is prolonged, the leg there is also getting a little colder in that region, the blood is becoming more dammed, in short, it can get colder. But temperature changes, they get a lot of attention. And here I want you to understand the following, it's very rare, I won't say it's impossible because nothing in medicine is impossible, but it's very rare for both legs to have thrombosis at the same time. If both legs are swollen at the same time, we will think of other causes. Venous insufficiency, which are varicose veins. We will think of edema due to kidney dysfunction, heart failure. We are not going to think about thrombosis in both legs at the same time. The patient has to be very unlucky for this to happen. So, thrombosis is unilateral in most cases. This thrombosis has to be diagnosed and treated very quickly. How do we make the diagnosis? Obviously the physical exam and the complementary exam of doppler ultrasound. Arterial or venous Doppler ultrasound. We will understand if there is a thrombus, if there is an obstruction, if there is a region that is not filling, that has a different blood flow. So the standard exam gold there for emergencies, not the gold standard, but the easiest exam is the ultrasound of these legs. We can do the angiography, which is the injection of contrast and see the tomography, a tomography with contrast, you can do resonance, but in the context of urgency in the emergency room, it is the ultrasound that helps us a lot. So, thrombosis in the legs, unfortunately it is something frequent, it is something that increases the risk with different factors, such as obesity, hypertension, cholesterol alterations, sedentary lifestyle, smoking, alcoholism, you know, obviously genetic alterations, coagulation alterations, so to patients who have thrombophilia, that is, it is easy to form thrombi. So these patients are more likely to have thrombosis. And how is the treatment? Treatment is based on anticoagulants. Why do we use anticoagulants? Obviously because we want to undo that thrombus, right? Different from the infarction I told you about, which we give thrombolytics, there's a video here on the channel, obviously, in the vast majority of cases, we don't do local thrombolytics. There are surgical cases that do, but it is rarer. But normally we give anticoagulants to this patient. Then we will administer the medication that will dissolve this thrombus. And dissolving that thrombus will improve the blood flow and the symptoms will improve. Arterial thrombosis, people, it is very time sensitive. Why? Because ischemia kills cells. It's like a heart attack, you have to run away. Gotta treat that leg fast. We often do the arterial one there in the emergency room, right? Running there in the emergency room a procedure to unclog, try to remove the thrombus. The vein, most of the time, we will give anticoagulant, if not hospitalized, we will send the patient home to use anticoagulant for a long time. And the venous, it can, when a thrombus forms there in the leg, it can run through the circulation and end up in the lung. And if it stops in the lung, it will cause thrombosis in the lung. Do you understand? This causes pulmonary thromboembolism . The patient, sometimes, can reach the lung with severe shortness of breath, you go to examine the patient, before doing any examination, you see that one leg is swollen. Most likely that thrombus in that leg went to the lung. That's why it's important to treat the atrocious thromboses in the legs. It's OK? Guys, I ask you once again to subscribe to my channel. If you are enjoying the content, share it, send it on WhatsApp. Send it to colleagues, subscribe, activate the bell, leave comments here, it's always a pleasure to respond. In this, you help me with my work, you help to spread this video to more and more people, okay? I really appreciate you here with me. See you next time!