Over 2,000 years ago, the steppes of Central Asia resounded the Scythians. They had neither towns nor palaces. The Scythians left only their tombs, tombs made of stones in which they were laid to rest Barbarians who haunt the realm of legend who were these fearsome warriors? What secrets does the tomb whose destiny still hold? How did he die? Who was he? What will these remains reveal of the lords of the steppes? Long before our time, bordering a world dominated by the Greeks, the Scythian kingdom stretched spanning between east and west. Today, to the east of Kazakhstan, researchers have set out Here, in the Bukhtarma Valley, the team has set up camp whose heritage they've come to explore. [Russian spoken audio] Over 40 French, Italian, have been working here The two mission leaders, researcher at the CNRS, and Zainolla Samashev have been preparing Together, they visited before choosing the kurgan This site, known to archaeologists has never been explored by scientists. While the workers continue the scientists, beneath their tent, are preparing and their much-awaited encounter Today is going to be decisive. Then, we don't know exactly when, the pillagers dug an opening Henri-Paul Francfort's guess of this one-time prince Finding the remains It's one of the goals of the expedition. Today, thanks to laboratory analysis we can determine the kind of food he ate, Beneath the kurgan, the earth has been thawing for two months However, the heat of summer approaches. The body, if it's still there, will not tolerate temperatures The chamber shows signs of pillaging. One of the sides The wooden lid covering the tomb It is left whole Nothing must be left behind. Repeated pillaging The sarcophagus is filled with mud. Sensitive to heat and dampness, has fragile biological evidence An expert at excavating tombs, It's hard to know because the opening on the side It's somewhat alarming. Given the scale of the pillaging, they perhaps wanted to pull the body out and rob it once it was outside. The immense kurgan, was 25 meters in diameter. It protected the burial chamber Scientists reconstruct the pillaging The pillagers first dug out a tunnel wide enough so that it would not cave in. Once they reached the burial chamber, undoubtedly, they cleared their way through the bodies then used sledgehammers and roof of the burial chamber. They were then able to sack the sepulcher Large kurgans Thousands of priceless objects The Scythian horsemen did not write. Their culture has been the Chinese, and the Greeks. The writings of Greek historian Herodotus, have been the principal source It is a piecemeal view, which is undoubtedly a poor account in particular, that of the Sakas, a tribe from the east The Scythians or the Sakas represented the archetype They did not live like us. They did not own a dwelling or land. They possessed livestock Their mores were seen The Altai expedition Will its findings shed new light of the Scythian culture? Under Eric's supervision, This is birch, and this is wood. We can tell from the sound of the brush. It's either hair or horse mane. It's not easy to tell the difference The amount of physical evidence It's an amalgam of cloth, felt, and hair. The layers of material torn away, and then pushed back, That day, a cloudless sky June weather It's not the first storm in 2,500 years, but this one is falling upon a frozen tomb What ice has preserved for 20 centuries, If the temperature rises, generating an odor of putrefaction. Hidden under a layer of birch bark, and intertwined in funereal communion. Cohy, a restorer, Extremely rare objects. Vestiges of Saka art of the Altai Mountains. It looks like In two pieces, it's very fragile. It's like a sponge. That should fit. That's it. Some objects still bear the gold leaf It's a series of pendants around the horse's skull. Small gilded cuts. You can clearly see the horse's skin. It's a horse with beige hair. This part of the tomb The pieces are intact A true stroke of luck. When the team realizes night has almost fallen. I don't know The objects that adorned begin to reveal the scene The dig will go on late into the night. The pieces are fragile and require lengthy That's perfect. The slow pace of archaeology must be reconciled Researchers spend their time at camp, like nomads of a bygone age. They awaken to the sound of the horses, which each morning cross the steppe Every day, in their quest for truth, researchers blend It's 7:00 in the morning, Each object must be carefully recorded before being studied later Drawings are made The quality of subsequent analysis will depend on the quality The work carried out at the site has already revealed far from the sound The clean pieces and complex universe Once the pieces of the harness what will they tell us? The harness is crucial how they functioned, and their structure. The Scythians They were outstanding horsemen. Altai harnesses were extremely ornate. The saddles were carefully gilded, as were garlands of pendants, Later in the lab, by analyzing we hope to reconstruct a theme for each horse. The sarcophagus has yet to reveal anything that has fallen from the roof a proof of violent pillaging. Eric still hopes to find the body He hopes to free the remains and then give them over I'm on the left shoulder bone. There is a Saka in this tomb who was pushed back The team must alter nothing miraculously left in their original place. They must remain calm and collected Gradually, an entire skeleton emerges A skeleton entirely stripped of its gold, Here we see this headrest, which may have been The head has slid off the headrest, either from the pillagers We can see that the head slid off. What did he look like? A few hairs, Here we can see the remains of braids We'll take away the plastic up there. Who was this Altai prince? How famous was he? His wanderings must have taken him In the princely necropolis there are at least 15 tombs. With this herd of decorated horses, the prince was laid to rest a proof of his importance. The kurgan reveals that a large number Researchers have counted 13 animals, These pendants, just unearthed, Do you see a sort of circle, an eye? Researchers had reason to believe were far superior riders These artifacts It's probably one of the oldest saddles with hoops, pommel, If one goes by written sources, saddles didn't appear In other words, much later. At the time saddles didn't exist. They rode bareback or on a simple blanket. These improvements in saddle comfort Every evening, Kazakh workers to return to their nearby village. Will they tell their children about their nomadic ancestors? Domesticated for the first time about a thousand years B.C., the horse has always played The Scythians learned to master In turn, horses changed their lives, driving them on The horse also made them They were an inspiration The Persian If we spend the history of nomadism, the horse stands out The horse is represented in carvings. Some of the carvings ridden as if they were horses, This horn, carved in wood has given a new dimension It was fixed onto the skull found in the prince's tomb. Could it be the vestige of a society unlike the ancient Greeks? We are probably dealing with rites and the notion the land of the dead, via the intermediary of an animal. However, it had to be a wild animal. The best way of mounting a wild animal without having to domesticate is to render a horse wild through ritual. Digging on-site to extract the artifacts is out of the question. It could be damaged by the heat. Scientists have developed a new method, a technique called Forty or so blocks must be cut out to extract the remains Identified, cataloged, they'll be put in a refrigerated truck All the objects found in the tomb must be preserved Thanks to the freezing, the archaeologists will have the time to answer this tomb's many riddles. Henri-Paul, there are two cadavers. -What part of the second one can you see? We must make sure that there are two, determine their sex, and see if they were buried I don't think However, the confirmation Here we have a leg, and there, another foot. One hand there above the face, another hand there, and another hand over here. One corpse there, and another here. That seems most likely. We're feeling our way through, but the scenario Researchers are familiar but what does this one mean? Two people in the same tomb. By observing the relative disposition and the layers of earth separating them, Eric manages to establish The second body The severely damaged skeleton yet an examination of the pelvis Another Altai kurgan, discovered in 1980, also contained a woman described by Herodotus. It seems to prove that the status of women was much higher cloistered in their palaces. Warrior, priestess, queen? Who was this mysterious intruder who had come The prince, on the other hand, is well preserved For the researchers, In the refrigerated convoy, they will take the fragile cargo far from the Altai Mountains. The second phase of the mission as well as those of the prince The cold and mist evoking a fabulous imaginary world a world that inspired the Greeks. Ulysses seeking the gates of Hell or Jason in search Two thousand years later, on a wide, silent steppe, an Altai prince helping them Part of the investigation in the suburbs of Almaty, Here, in the laboratories it is large enough It's been specially equipped and remains brought back Sebastian is an archaeozoologist. For a week now, he's been trying among the blocks cut out of the tomb. -That? The vertebrae are out of line. This block, for instance, Each one must be identified What's unusual about this one In fact, their foreheads are together. From this puzzle of flesh and bone, hope to reconstruct the chamber The time has come especially their teeth, which will provide information at the time they died. Having extracted all of the bones, the researchers can now compare Patiently, Sebastian gathers clues before their sacrifice. Little by little, We know we're dealing with animals It's close to what we find today All the animals are male stallions. Other clues tell us Analysis of tooth wear clearly shows that the animals That's very important because, combined with the sex it gives us a good idea to choose the animals to be slaughtered. The analysis of the skeletons also reveals that these horses The Sakas chose to sacrifice animals even in honor of a prince. A scientific observation which confirms the importance At the moment of the funeral ceremony, they were slaughtered using a well-known tool, a kind of pick that fractures the bone What specialists the petroglyphs of Kazakhstan have been recounting In the laboratory, the time has come at last Numerous Kazakh scientists of observing, studying, For them, this figure He is their ancestor, a Saka, a contemporary of the Golden Man. The Golden Man For this young nation, This warrior wore a fabulous costume composed of hundreds The themes represented He was discovered now the Kazakh capital, far from the princely Altai mountains. By comparing artifacts taken scientists hope to map What a strange image: a civilization observed through its dead. What will the autopsy reveal and their burial rites? There, look. What's that? Look into this part of the feather. Yes, yes, we can. Like forensic scientists researchers are trying to make a subject Here's an incision so one could presume that it was open It's open there and there. It's fractured, as if they had leaned like this. What we have is evidence Yes, because the opening is complete. It's hard to imagine If the person was alive, It will take researchers several days There are marks on all the bones These marks show that the thorax All the organs and most of the muscles Other marks on the bones of the hand and perhaps sewn back on. We found three pieces of fine string Removal of the flesh on other Altai mummies. It was a way of preserving the body. In his Histories, Herodotus tells were transported for several months before being buried. Block number nine of the horse pit. An amalgam of animal remains and pieces of artifacts The extraction of the pieces The slightest overexertion of pressure, The initial location of each piece is carefully recorded The same procedure is used for the pieces The extraction operations These unearthed representations on ancient Saka beliefs. The Saka used real animals, and imaginary creatures, In its representation of nature, Saka animal art bearing witness The small, grimacing sphinx seems to reflect a universe Ancient Saka art also expresses a will The figures that are represented which is now lost to us. After four days of close questioning, the dismembered skeleton is about to give up another secret. Eric has managed to reconstruct the skull. What is most interesting It was due to a blow from what a forensic scientist The blow was so violent that it caused We can see how the shockwave traveled. This is a very fine incision and it's where someone tried It's an operation known as trepanation. What's amazing and here, something much cruder, which shows that the operation following the death of the subject. It's the type of cruel and painful death A world in which Warring tribes, internal quarreling, The Scythians chose to depict Perhaps to make it Herodotus tells how the body scalped, and transformed into a trophy, and how the Scythians fraternized The symmetry used for the harness of one of the old stallions is almost complete. Only a few more details need adjusting. [Kazakh spoken audio] At last, we can imagine the entire animal Here, we have a horse ibex with its horns and all of the artifacts A garland of pendants, an elaborate bit, all decorated using a single theme. In fact, the entire cortege Horse cat, horse elk, All the real or mythical animals escorted the deceased Scientific observation of the beliefs of the Scythians. [French spoken audio] The material is now part of a vast reservoir We've got a head with symmetry. By deciphering the style of the objects, Henri-Paul Francfort of links between these artifacts and more ancient ones This first pendant shows a kind of dragon and also at the rear of the skull, typical motifs of Middle Eastern art, which could only have been at the time of the Achaemenids In Altai art, we also find felines The strict symmetry They are quite close to certain bronzes who we know had contact Bordering China and Persia, the Altai takes us back filled with exchanges of that time. These discoveries are perhaps only part a flourishing artistic community whose traces we can follow and from the Black Sea to Siberia. Saint Petersburg. For over two centuries, here at the Hermitage Museum the vast puzzle of the Scythian peoples and the art of the steppes Henri-Paul Francfort has come with the treasures In particular, located in the northern Altai Sacrificed horses, and once more, pastiche horns, whose ornamentation to the horns Here, too, we can see the same contrasts. Here the French researcher with similar rites and beliefs. The upper part, Perfectly preserved artifacts such as this fabulous filled tapestry with a representation as he makes his offering, or this saddle pad, which shows the bright colors Hidden away in the museum attic are other pieces Henri-Paul Francfort but never up close. He had never touched them with his hands. The pieces in Saint Petersburg were placed on stallions and the styles are similar. It indeed confirms our hunch that flourished throughout the Altai. Here we're dealing with older kurgans. Royal ones this time, yet in both cases, and used comparable materials. The Hermitage Museum of Scythian civilization Tsar Peter the First, ordered the Russian people Thanks to the work this fabulous collection that escaped pillage has come together. These artifacts bear witness and artistic links The same representation and of life filled with combat. The same themes of mythical animals, The same ways of hammering, and encrusting precious metals. These pieces, are solid gold belt buckles discovered in the royal kurgans For Henri-Paul Francfort, they are proof that the region Predators are represented on the sword and on the sculpted wooden piece Three variations The discoveries have now found their place thus confirming that binds Europe and Asia Back in France, samples taken from the prince's remains In Eric's anthropology lab, Altai research that studies the origin Analysis revealed the presence typical of hot and humid countries. They show that Scythian nomads hundreds, even thousands, of kilometers. Meanwhile, these same parasites of the mysterious woman Were the two individuals related? We carried out DNA analysis, which showed a genetic correlation We observed a 50% correlation, which is the type of correlation or a father and daughter. When taking into account 30 to 40 years old for one, and the time between the two burials, which we determined during the dig the most likely hypothesis and that 15 to 30 years later, his mother, who was elderly by that time, was buried in the same tomb. The burial ceremony will take place here, around this kurgan, Perhaps there will be a moment during which the warriors by the vapors of cannabis seeds The ceremony may last several weeks. During that time, Here, 13 horses harnessed in gold one on top of the other, The prince is wearing his jewelry, and his weapons and other offerings They will eventually The burial will perhaps be commemorated A series of discoveries and raises new questions, in an endless quest for truth