- Hi everyone, in today's about the time that I tried mushrooms. (upbeat music) Hi, and welcome back to the Living Well with If you're new here, my name about what it's like to live with Schizoaffective If you would like to make sure to subscribe to our channel, and also if you would like of videos like this one, make sure to check out our Patreon page. There's a very good chance are going to be demonetized by YouTube. And so, we're basically from our Patreons which we Also, if you join Patreon, you have access to our where we offer peer support as well as voice and video groups. So if that interests you, make sure to check out our Patreon page. So I just wanna start off by that I tried mushrooms and before I became pregnant, There were no children around and we did it in a very safe environment. So there has been a recent renaissance of psychedelic science with hallucinatory drugs being considered in the and post-traumatic This increased consideration has also reignited interest in the similarities of with those experiences such as in people with The effects of hallucinogenic drugs resemble some of the core So one study sought to hallucinations in schizophrenia and under psychedelics. The common features that they found were that both experiences included a reduced stability of both experiences also involved a strong metaphysical meaning. Now the differences found were that psychedelics over whereas hallucinations in schizophrenia are mostly related to the over-activation of associative networks. Also, drug-induced encompasses more visual hallucinations, often kind of geometric with whereas schizophrenia is by more auditory and poor insight or So to give a bit of a brief and kind of or simplified drug induced psychosis as well as schizophrenia induced psychosis has similarities but they are different. So now I wanna get into sharing more about my experience trying it out. So, I had read throughout I had read articles about how mushrooms are being increasingly used to treat depression or that there was increasing evidence that mushrooms could be Also things like post And so that piqued my interest because I was primarily dealing when my mental health journey started out. That seemed like something because my depression had been very treatment I know that is because I was being treated for the wrong disorder, but anyway, I was interested in trying alternative methods of treatments such as hallucinogenics. And this kind of interest in trying out these other has come with me throughout my journey. And it may seem a little in trying out a hallucinogenic substance when hallucinations are a primary symptom of Schizoaffective disorder which I have, but there's a lot of evidence of these kinds of And so it was something I had really experimented too much with drugs before this. I had tried marijuana, weed. We did actually a separate video about my experience with marijuana that you can check out a link But basically what happened with that was it wasn't a very good experience and so I was interested that might provide a different result. And so Rob and I started And so I'm not gonna get into details about how we obtained said mushrooms because that is a little but we obtained mushrooms and And the first time we Neither of us experienced really anything. And so we were kind of but we decided why not? Let's give it a try again. And the second time we tried it, holy smokes, it was an amazing experience. I'm not even sure how to describe what the experience was like, but everything was just kind of amplified, colors were more vivid, the world was more beautiful. we went on a walk around and it was kind of the I've ever experienced. So, the first time we tried it, it was really, really good. And I would say that, yeah, there were therapeutic benefits to it. It was mind expanding, it was really internally reflective and it was just a really So, we were like, &quot;Hey, And we tried it again. And so this third time trying it, I started to have a bit of a harder time. It wasn't like the second where it was amazing and whatnot. I think it actually triggered and the hallucinations and whatnot were a little bit more difficult to manage and there was more anxiety happening. So we reflected on this and we're like, &quot;Well, the first time things happened, for the second time we tried and the third time, not so much. Maybe let's try it again and And so the fourth time that we tried it, it was really, really, So this is where my experience really diverged from that of Rob who is for all intensive and does not have Schizoaffective And what I experienced this time was like complete, complete psychosis. And it started with just about what was happening and I was having the typical of like geometric shapes and whatnot and more the visual hallucinations, but I was also then having the more schizophrenia that were more auditory and I completely lacked This time, I forgot who I was, I felt like I couldn't speak, I couldn't communicate It was really, really intense and for all intents and So, this may seem really but we decided to try it thinking that again, and maybe it will be great again. So we tried it for a fifth and final time and again, it was very, My psychosis was completely triggered, I completely forgot who I I couldn't communicate with Rob again, I couldn't speak or I remember that I have schizophrenia or Schizoaffective disorder and I became a little this was what a schizophrenia episode was, this was a symptom of my schizophrenia. I fell into that, that and I had like basically the memory and attention I just kept like bringing And it was awful, like I never wanna be in the state again. It was truly, truly awful. It got to the point I couldn't remember what my name was. So Rob wrote it out on a and would just hold it up I think it said, &quot;Your name And I couldn't wrap my head around that. I would be like, &quot;Okay and this is schizophrenia.&quot; I kept going back to that and And it was so mind tripping and just not a good experience. So I have a hard time putting into words what this experience was like, but it was very, very and forgetting my life. And it just felt like I had no means of orientating myself in that moment. The trip lasted, I don't know, six to eight hours or however long it lasts, about that. And throughout that, like I said, I had a memory of a goldfish and I would ask Rob something and then I would forget and he started asking me, &quot;Does it seem like I can read your mind?&quot; And I would be like, &quot;Yes, yes, it does.&quot; 'Cause he would know when I was gonna ask because I kept asking it, because I kept forgetting the So he would say, &quot;You just gave me the And then it would seem which was no further initiating the paranoia involved in my psychosis and further driving home the feeling that this was all a simulation, that everyone was kind of watching me and knew what I was thinking without me really knowing or without me knowing what was going on. And so the idea of a simulation was something that I really hung onto and this went on after the trip ended too. And I think it was this weird mixture of having drug-induced psychosis but the stress of a bad trip kind of triggering my And so it was this awful conglomeration of psychotic symptoms that culminated in a really terrible experience. And the particularly hard was that the psychosis kind And I was really fixated on what was real and what wasn't real and I couldn't really And so this is where the poor insight of schizophrenia spectrum illnesses and psychosis comes into play where I didn't have insight and I was questioning reality and I was questioning everything. And I thought that we were and I fell into this for a few weeks after the last time I tried mushrooms. I understand why people And it was fun in the beginning, because I have Schizoaffective disorder, it became kind of dangerous to be trying out these substances. And so, I just kind of want to anyone with a psychotic disorder that playing with mind altering substances is particularly dangerous for us because we are very susceptible and a lot of these things And so, I've shared my and I'm grateful for this experience. It was mind expensive in some regards, but also I learned more about myself, but it was also really, really terrible and scary and difficult. I just want to share this in an effort to kind of caution people when they're trying out about trying out substances like this especially if you have So we're in kind of a period right now where there is a lot of exploration being done scientifically of hallucinogenic substances such as magic mushrooms or And there is evidence that it is useful in the treatment of disorders However, there's still a lot in terms of the therapeutic of using these substances for other disorders such as schizophrenia. Based on my experiences, it's never going to be where it can trigger psychosis, but there may come some benefits in terms of micro-dosing And that is just something in the scientific community right now. So that wraps up me with experimenting with magic mushrooms. I hope this video was helpful in some way. If you wanna see more videos from us, make sure to subscribe to our channel, and just again, if you wanna help us with supporting the creation make sure to check out the Thank you so much again for watching and as always wishing you and We'll see you in the next video, bye.