- Before there was NYSNC, there were New Kids on the Block. They dominated in the late 80's and 90's and while they've taken they're still going strong, y'all. In fact, their fans went their Magic Summer 2024 tour. They were, their fans are It's a different decibel. They, they will take on any I promise you. They were here back in March and with five kids on our couches, we couldn't fit everything so here's a Kelly Extra with Danny, Jonathan, of New Kids on the Block. Okay, so wait, I have to Danny, do you have any rituals? is there something you have That's what I have to I always am afraid I'm - Definitely that, that's a, a must. Usually someone runs back It's like whack-a-mole. - [Kelly] That's always me. - Runs back, but I That's about it. - [Kelly] Yeah. - I know Donnie stretches too, and I don't really have anything else. - Bit of yoga before the show. - I stretch every once in a while. - No, no one tour- - No, but you, no, a before every, he was like, I love this routine. Oh, it's so great. Every time, every time. Next tour, nothing. (audience laughing) Nothing. Like, no, I'm not gonna stop this. - He takes each tour as it comes. Jordan takes whatever is like, all right, I hear this - [Kelly] Soul is feeling it. - I used to take naps, - Wow. (audience laughing) I can't nap, I try so hard. - [Donnie] It's a lot. - Yeah. - Joe loves his naps. - I, I gotta get my naps - I try. - [Joe] Yeah, you gotta - It's hard too when you have kids. This sounds like an old - [Joe] Yeah. - When you're on tour, which glad, I hope but I, it's different and you're waking up so early and then you're on stage so late. I know I sound old, but I'm tired vocally by the time you get out there, I can't even imagine having to dance. I'm just standing there, - Well, I, that's being a mom or a parent that's taking ca I, my kids so more power to you. - [Kelly] See, I have to, I won't do it unless they can, yeah, but I have like abandonment that's why I was like, I will be present. - [Donnie] You bet. - But then it's, you're You become a robot after a We love those guys, they're so awesome and later we played a game, - Come on. - Oh yeah. (audience cheering) Okay. - I'm torn already. - [Kelly] I'm not, I wanna beat you. - [Joe] Here we go. - Okay, this question is, this that trims those little green blades- - Oh! - In your front yard. - Yes, Kelly. - Lawnmower, yeah. Woo! Okay. (audience cheering) Oh, so sorry, so sorry. (audience cheering) You're awesome, you're awesome. - [Joe] No, it's, did - Yeah, lawnmower. - Oh. - Which looks like the running man? - No, because you're pushing - That's all you have to do. - People with no money, the group with no money - There's more, there's more. - Here's a zero turn, here's the- It's like- - First of all, thank you again, Joey. (audience laughing) Who knew you guys were so competitive. - [Kelly] I like it. I like it and I welcome it. - [Host] Well listen, I'm - Thank you. - For the dance and I'm also for going over there and playing Joey. - [Kelly] Thank you, thank you, thank you. Yes! - Hey, you gotta step it up. I, I don't know what's going on. - [Host] Oh, you're in a blackout. Okay now, I'm gonna have - You can do this, you can do this. (audience cheering) - You got this. - Okay, so here's the - Yes. - In the 1990's, this line was done by putting your (audience cheering) (upbeat music) - Dance it out, dance it out! (music stops) (audience cheering) - He said, he said. - Okay listen, obviously you but I'm gonna give each 'cause I got to see that from behind. (audience cheering) (audience applauding) Okay so next up we're gonna (audience cheering) All right, all right, - Whatever, you kill him! (audience laughing) - Okay, okay, okay. Now this dance, often done with your might be popular during a celebration, or on St. Patrick's Day in Boston. You know what I'm talking about? Lord of the Dance. - Oh Lord of the- - Donnie? - Irish step dance, Lord of the dance. - [Host] Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. (audience cheering) (upbeat music) - Hey! (audience cheering) (music stops) (audience cheering) - You killed that. - Yes! (audience cheering) - Okay, okay, all right. Obviously they get another point. I mean, they're kicking and stuff. Okay, all right. Half a point 'cause Danny's - [Kelly] Okay, okay, okay, okay. - Thank you. - Catch New Kids on the Block this summer with Paula Abdul and DJ Jazzy Jeff, go online for tickets today.