Hi guys! In this lesson, I will explain the working in many electrical devices that we use in Transformers are one of the electrical machines used to reduce or increase the voltage and changing its frequency. Transformers from the power sources in our phones or many electronic devices, from the and convert it to DC, to transfer stations structures, at city entrances and in some It is possible to see that it is used in many Transformers transfer energy from one circuit In this way, power is transferred from one Until the voltage produced in the power plants exposed to the step-up and then to the step-down First of all, a voltage is produced in the Then this voltage is converted to high voltage Then, this high voltage is carried to the High voltage is reduced with the help of transformers Eventually it reaches our homes as 110V AC. Here, you may have a question why the electricity I can explain this as follows. During the transport of electric current to the power plants is increased and transported reduce the losses through heat in the wires. So how do we reduce losses in this way? The formula for power is found by P=VxI. If we increase the voltage value in this formula, Because the power produced in an ideal electrical power value is constant. Since the current decreases here, there will Thus, the losses are reduced. Now let's see how a transformer works. In order to better understand the working According to this law, a magnetic field is formed around a conductor through which a certain current is flowing. When we wrap this conductor on the core, which iron with very good magnetic permeability, In fact, it is an electromagnet in a coil Here, this electromagnet has N and S poles While the current flowing through the conductor constant if it is direct current, the intensity changing if it is alternating current. When we wind these two electromagnet coils other, a transformer is formed. Here, the AC voltage at the input creates This magnetic field transforms into magnetic The magnetic flux in this core creates an with the effect of the variable magnetic field. Thus, the input voltage is converted wirelessly So why do we need to transfer voltage in this In fact, what is done here is to adjust the The intensity of the voltage will change according With transformers, only an AC voltage is increased Because the direction and intensity of the on time, the direction and intensity of the When this field cuts the output windings, A DC voltage cannot be stepped up or down. Because when DC is applied to the input windings However, this magnetic field is a constant Since the direction and intensity of this induction in the output windings. In a transformer circuit, it is basically The input part is called Primary and the output Here, we see that the winding at the primary winding at the secondary output is less. This transformer is a step-down transformer. It will convert the high voltage at the input This transformer is a step-up transformer. We see that the primary winding is less than It will convert the low voltage at its input As we can see here, the step-up and step-down the number of windings at the input and output. So how do we show them as formulas, now let's The conversion ratio in the transformer is This ratio is the ratio of the number of turns. Here, if we call the primary voltage VP, the voltage VS and the secondary winding NS, if without any loss, the ratio of the primary to the ratio of the primary voltage to the From here, we can see that the number of windings At the same time, this ratio will be equal In other words, the voltage values and the The iron core, which is used to ensure the is not as a single piece of casting as you stacked on top of each other and glued together. The reason for doing it this way is to reduce As such, the efficiency can reach over 90%. In very large transformers used in power plants, processes are carried out at high voltages. In order to dissipate this heat, oil is passed Therefore, such transformers have an oil tank. This tank is used to store the oil used for In addition, this oil also provides insulation This is the basic structure and working logic I hope it was helpful and you liked it. Hope to see you in the next lesson. Goodbye.