Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, President Powers, Provost Fenves, friends and most importantly, the class of It is indeed an honor for me to be here tonight. It's been almost 37 years to the day that I remember a lot of things about that day. I remember I had throbbing headache from a I remember I had a serious girlfriend, whom by the way--and I remember I was getting But of all the things I remember, I don't and I certainly don't remember anything they So, acknowledging that fact, if I can't make at least try to make it short. The University's slogan is, &quot;What starts here I've got to admit, I kinda like it. &quot;What starts here changes the world.&quot; Tonight there are almost 8,000 students, there UT. That great paragon of analytical rigor, Ask.Com, people in their lifetime. 10,000 people. That's a lot of folks. But if every one of you changed the lives changed the lives of another 10 people, and years--the class of 2014 will have changed 800 million people. Think about it: over twice the population Go one more generation and you can change billion people. If you think it's hard to change the lives wrong. I saw it happen every day in Iraq and Afghanistan. A young Army officer makes a decision to go and the 10 soldiers with him are saved from In Kandahar province in Afghanistan, a non-commissioned something isn't right and directs the infantry the lives of a dozen soldiers. But, if you think about it, not only were person, but their children were saved. And their children's children. Generations were saved by one decision, by But changing the world can happen anywhere, So, what starts here can indeed change the world look like after you change it? Well, I am confident that it will look much, But if you will humor this old sailor for may help you on your way to a better a world. And while these lessons were learned during that it matters not whether you ever served It matters not your gender, your ethnic or your social status. Our struggles in this world are similar, and to move forward--changing ourselves and changing all. I have been a Navy SEAL for 36 years. But it all began when I left UT for Basic Basic SEAL training is six months of long, swims in the cold water off San Diego, obstacles sleep and always being cold, wet and miserable. It is six months of being constantly harassed to find the weak of mind and body and eliminate But the training also seeks to find those constant stress, chaos, failure and hardships. To me, basic SEAL training was a lifetime So, here are the 10 lesson's I learned from of value to you as you move forward in life. Every morning in SEAL training, my instructors, would show up in my barracks room, and the If you did it right, the corners would be centered just under the headboard and the the rack. It was a simple task, mundane at best. But every morning we were required to make It seemed a little ridiculous at the time, aspiring to be real warriors, tough battle-hardened But the wisdom of this simple act has been If you make your bed every morning you will It will give you a small sense of pride and and another, and another. And by the end of the day, that one task completed Making your bed will also reinforce the fact If you can't do the little things right, you And, if by chance you have a miserable day, you made--and a made bed gives you encouragement If you want to change the world, start off During SEAL training the students...during boat crews. Each crew is seven students--three on each to help guide the dingy. Every day your boat crew forms up on the beach zone and paddle several miles down the coast. In the winter, the surf off San Diego can difficult to paddle through the plunging surf Every paddle must be synchronized to the stroke Everyone must exert equal effort or the boat dumped back on the beach. For the boat to make it to its destination, You can't change the world alone--you will And to truly get from your starting point the good will of strangers and a strong coxswain If you want to change the world, find someone Over a few weeks of difficult training my down to just 42. There were now six boat crews of seven men I was in the boat with the tall guys, but little guys--&quot;the munchkin crew,&quot; we called The munchkin boat crew had one American Indian, one Greek American, one Italian American, They out-paddled, out-ran and out-swam all The big men in the other boat crews would flippers the munchkins put on their tiny little But somehow these little guys, from every had the last laugh, swimming faster than everyone of us. SEAL training was a great equalizer. Nothing mattered but your will to succeed. Not your color, not your ethnic background, If you want to change the world, measure a the size of their flippers. Several times a week, the instructors would It was exceptionally thorough. Your hat had to be perfectly starched, your buckle shiny and void of any smudges. But it seemed that no matter how much effort your uniform or polishing your belt buckle, The instructors would fine something wrong. For failing the uniform inspection, the student Then, wet from head to toe, roll around on covered with sand. The effect was known as &quot;sugar cookie.&quot; You stayed in the uniform the rest of the There were many a student who just couldn't in vain. That no matter how hard they tried to get Those students didn't make it through training. Those students didn't understand the purpose You were never going to succeed. You were never going to have a perfect uniform. The instructors weren't going to allow it. Sometimes no matter how well you prepare or sugar cookie. It's just the way life is sometimes. If you want to change the world, get over Every day during training you were challenged long swims, obstacle courses, hours of calisthenics--something Every event had standards, times you had to If you failed to meet those times, those standards, end of the day those on the list were invited A circus was two hours of additional calisthenics, to force you to quit. No one wanted a circus. A circus meant that for that day you didn't A circus meant more fatigue, and more fatigue difficult, and more circuses were likely. But at some time during SEAL training, everyone--everyone--made But an interesting thing happened to those Over time, those students--who did two hours The pain of the circuses built inner strength Life is filled with circuses. You will fail. You will likely fail often. It will be painful. It will be discouraging. At times it will test you to your very core. But if you want to change the world, don't At least twice a week, the trainees were required The obstacle course contained 25 obstacles, net and a barbed wire crawl, to name a few. But the most challenging obstacle was the It had a three-level, 30-foot tower at one In between was a 200-foot-long rope. You had to climb the three tiered tower and, underneath the rope and pulled yourself, hand The record for the obstacle course had stood The record seemed unbeatable. Until one day, a student decided to go down Instead of swinging his body underneath the mounted the TOP of the rope and thrust himself It was a dangerous move--seemingly foolish Failure could mean injury and being dropped Without hesitation the student slid down the Instead of several minutes, it only took him And by the end of the course he had broken If you want to change the world, sometimes first. During the land warfare phase of training, Island, which lies off the coast of San Diego. The waters off San Clemente are a breeding To pass SEAL training there are a series of One is the night swim. Before the swim the instructors joyfully brief that inhabit the waters off San Clemente. They assure you, however, that no student not that they can remember. But, you are also taught that if a shark begins Do not swim away. Do not act afraid. And if the shark, hungry for a midnight snack, strength and punch him in the snout, and he There are a lot of sharks in the world. If you hope to complete the swim you will So, if you want to change the world, don't As Navy SEALs one of our jobs is to conduct We practiced this technique extensively during The ship attack mission is where a pair of harbor and then swims well over two miles, and a compass to get to the target. During the entire swim, even well below the It is comforting to know that there is open But as you approach the ship, which is tied The steel structure of the ship blocks the It blocks the surrounding street lamps. It blocks all ambient light. To be successful in your mission, you have the centerline and the deepest part of the This is your objective. But the keel is also the darkest part of the of your face, where the noise from the ship's be easily disoriented and you can fail. Every SEAL knows that under the keel, at the when you need to be calm, when you must be your tactical skills, your physical power to bear. If you want to change the world, you must The ninth week of training is referred to It is six days of no sleep, constant physical at the Mud Flats. The Mud Flats are area between San Diego and the Tijuana slues, a swampy patch of terrain It is on Wednesday of Hell Week that you paddle hours trying to survive the freezing cold, to quit from the instructors. As the sun began to set that Wednesday evening, infraction of the rules,&quot; was ordered into The mud consumed each man 'til there was nothing The instructors told us we could leave the men, just five men and we could get out of Looking around the mud flat it was apparent It was still over eight hours till the sun cold. The chattering teeth and shivering moans of anything. And then, one voice began to echo through One voice raised in song. The song was terribly out of tune but sung One voice became two, and two became three, singing. The instructors threatened us with more time the singing persisted. And somehow the mud seemed a little warmer, so far away. If I have learned anything in my time traveling The power of one person--Washington, Lincoln, Malala--one person can change the world by So, if you want to change the world, start Finally, in SEAL training there is a bell. A brass bell that hangs in the center of the All you have to do to quit is ring the bell. Ring the bell and you no longer have to wake Ring the bell and you no longer have to be Ring the bell and you no longer have to do you no longer have to endure the hardships All you have to do is ring the bell to get If you want to change the world don't ever, To the class of 2014, you are moments away Moments away from beginning your journey through Moments away from starting to change the world It will not be easy. But, YOU are the class of 2014--the class in the next century. Start each day with a task completed. Find someone to help you through life. Respect everyone. Know that life is not fair and that you will step up when the times are toughest, face and never, ever give up--if you do these that follow will live in a world far better here will indeed have changed the world--for Thank you very much. Hook 'em horns.