I never thought I would up against Donald Trump is a strange situation Kim Jong-un actually released a statement the leader of North Korea, saying Donald Trump is a psychopath I can not work with him, for him to send a message about Donald Trump Where he is just But I mean I can't , I don't know This guy and Donald is crazy People ask me all the time, You are not being serious. I Trevor come on man, Donald Come on you gotta give him Guys, that guy is crazy Then they be like, is he like Then you like, yeah. Is he Then I am like no, guys, guys Julius is smart, don't play those games I know people get tricked Those guys are smart Especially Jacob Zuma, people get fooled by him Because he's got that cute vibe Always giggling That guy is a master tactician Look now, vote of no confidence Survived again People are shocked, how did he do it? How did he do it? If you watch Days of Our Everyday he wakes up looking Like sands through the hourglass So are the Days of Our Lives A lot of people make that mistake, I You think our politicians are stupid Maybe it's because of how they speak, And Jacob Zuma's smart Jacob Zuma was the head of Intelligence Jacob Zuma started the chess team on Robben Island A lot of people don't know That's why he is so good at Because he is a horse Check Donald Trump is not like that One thing I will say Catch him in a corner, ask That guy will rattle it off, But he knows what he is talking about Donald Trump has no clue About any policy what-so-ever He knows nothing about Geopolitics, Every time Donald Trump answers a question Because he answers it like he is a Because that's how he answers it Every time you see Donald Trump on T.V you They will be like, Mr. President can you and how preexisting I know We are going to have so much All the coverage I'm gonna get it, all of it It's gonna be so good, great Some people even say, the best But how is it going to work? It's gonna work, it's just gonna work folks It's gonna work, it's gonna be done I am gonna do it It's gonna be done And the people in South Africa And Iraq and the countries And health, and insurance And we are going to do all And also Donald Trump is losing his mind saying the craziest things We're gonna build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for it I love how Mexico says, We might build your wall but Stupid! Donald Trump's just everything seems to be going wrong for him now he's getting ready to start a war launch a nuclear weapon North Korea, they will know fire and fury fury and fire Fast and Furious Tokyo Drift like no one's ever seen this guy's gonna blow up the world people. his not having a good time I correct people all the say what you want about Jacob Zuma he knows his policy it doesn't mean his getting things right doesn't mean he's doing the correct things but he knows his policy you can't say thy are the same and say what you want about Jacob Zuma but he knows how to handle his ladies. Yeah. He doesn't have any problems there Donald Trump walking around in public his wife smacking his hand away In public, do you know Donald Trump was there She just slapped it away, (smack) and then the second time he tried to grab it and she just did like a little thing and everyone was like, are they fighting? I was like yea, of course they're a completely horrible time you don't even need to see the video of the I have had a theory for a long time are not in a happy relationship and I don't want to start any I have noticed it in they're speeches every time Donald Trump or Melania speaks it seems like they are they are giving a speech but they are every time, all you have to do is listen for instance, Melania Trump came out She made a speech about her every first lady gets to choose what what they are going to be Michelle Obama says she is going to help Melania Trump came out and she came out and nobody forced her as first lady I believe we need to fight against the cyber bullying all the people on twitter who we need to stop them we need to make sure they cannot I was like, do you know your husband lady? and now I realize she was doing it on purpose they were having a fight she probably got home that night dropped her keys on the table Donald Trump was sitting in the living room turned on the lights Hi Melania I saw what you said about me on the news it was very Oh, Hello Donald I didn't see you sitting over there I thought you were watching the cartoons You know I was watching the news Melania I watch all the news fake news so what are you going you want a war I'm gonna get you Melania do your worst Donald Oh it's on I am the best at worst the next day he came out gave a speech, what did he say? We've got to get rid of all these immigrants needs your move Melania She went to a woman's conference. the men who are grabbing the ladies without the permission, we need to I was like yo, you need to I remember the worst encounter I had with the Tiny little airport, I was flying And so I am in Burbank airport And for some reason I was beeping, I don't And I beep, go out, beep, go out, beep. Every time I have to take something of when The whole time he's like, "take it off, take it off" And then the machine goes beep and he's "take that off!", and he's like I am basically naked right now I felt like an under performing He's like, "take that, no, ahhh!" And finally he's just like, So I walk to the side and he's like, So I put my arms up. Then he whipped out his little It looks like a midget sword, That's what they call it, the wand. Because that hundred thousand Shit just got real. So he looks at me and says: "go ahead and stick So I put my arms up and he scans me (Scanner) "You got any, you got any metal objects on you?" I was like "then what was that for?" "If you are going to ask me "The foreplay to my And then as if he can't do this He goes, "I'm gonna need "Can we get Velasquez, Velasquez to gate 10" And he calls for a man, by the name Velasquez . Who I am assuming was the Because he wasn't even on the floor They called for him and Velasquez emerged From the back offices of the T.S.A And he walked out, and the energy changed. People bowed their heads as he walk past. Everyone gave him a little nod. You could see he was special, Velasquez was a little Mexican man. Very long mustache, big chest. And he was very short, really, really short guy. But he didn't feel short He looked short but he didn't feel Like he had this thing. You know those It looks like they just chose to grow low. He had that energy. So Velasquez walks down towards My guy tries to apologize, like, He silenced him with one move He stepped up and looked me in the eye. He's like, "Sir" "Spanish jibberish" And I didn't know what he was saying. But I knew what he meant. And so I stood there. I raised my arms. And as I did, he whipped out his wand. And he started using it all over me, And as soon as he did, It was the most magical thing I The way he wielded that wand was unlike I felt like I was being blessed, I Because he went all over me, It was something special. It was On the outside you still heard that beeping But in my head I heard a *Lightsaber sounds* Because he was, he was to me. A little Mexican Jedi. That's exactly what he was, Which by the way I feel would be a welcome I am a big fan, a huge fan of I was super excited when I found out they were I went back, watched all the movies. And I came to realize that there's no Which is weird because when you look at it, Star Wars is a vision of America. In a distant future. So Surely it would be safe to say. Judging by the current trajectory. Of Mexican people in America. I'm sure we would be In a galaxy far, far away. There would be at least one, just one Mexican Jedi. It's not like it would spoil the story, Can you imagine how different that epic scene Them battling it out on the Death Star. The moment of realization. *Lightsaber sounds* *heavy breathing* "Luke" *Lightsaber sound* "what *heavy breathing* "Luke" *Lightsaber sound* "what *heavy breathing* "No, look man, look" "It's your father, man" But the pilots, the pilots are calm, they're they start making useless announcements just to give you that feeling you get up there as the seat belt lights go &quot;Ladies and gentlemen as you may have noticed &quot;currently sitting at 23 000 feet above sea level.&quot; &quot;Cruising at about 720km an &quot;one of the favorite planes in the star _______________ &quot;beautiful sunny day up here, we might &quot;the cabin crew will be taking care of you.&quot; &quot;In the front we've got Esmeralda and Jonathan &quot;They will be taking care of you and if you &quot;I'll let you know once we've begun &quot;until then please enjoy your *sound of intercom switching off* &quot;Oh yeah, pilot &quot;my guy, my guy! It's cool, it's cool. I just don't like the fact that they never It freaks me out because they are trained and I noticed this because we hit turbulence, coming into Johannesburg, and the plane started shaking, and you You know, its that turbulence where people's you know, because you know people They will be like *Humming* and then they get to a and that point comes where like everyone except the I love how they do it, you know. like you will hit the turbulence, you will be like Things are falling, the bags are *sound of turbulence* People are panicking except for the It's freaky, its almost like the lower because they will just carry on, &quot;yes, yes &quot;would you guys like some coffee? &quot;there you go, &quot;thank you, &quot;anything for you sir, huh?&quot; &quot;Yeah, okay&quot; &quot;okay then, just pass me an apple juice&quot; &quot;alright, thank you very much&quot; &quot;there you go, would you like some ice? I don't know how they do it. and then the pilot has the nerve to come on the plane is shaking, the wings You think you are going to die, it's like People are screaming, it's like *intercom switching on* &quot;Ladies and gentlemen, we have &quot;we ask that everyone return &quot;and refrain from using the lavatory's&quot; &quot;Please note we will be flying at a higher &quot;also keep your seat belts fastened&quot; &quot;and no hot drinks will be served Thank you very much and I &quot;once we have gotten out Speak to you in a moment. That moment might never come. He doesn't tell you this. When the nation wide flight lost It just fell. Quiet. I don't want a pilot like that, I I want to know before I'm I want to say a prayer or two, I I want to forgive everyone Give me a chance, But they don't, pilots. No Other people who die in plane Must be the worst feeling in the world. There's like a whole bunch of confused *popping sound* &quot;I swear these airports &quot;I never know where to I'm like, are we &quot;Oh wow, I can't believe &quot;Guys, I cant believe; And there is Saint Peter &quot;Come forward please, &quot;Come forward.&quot; &quot;Who are you?&quot; &quot;Uh, but you&quot; &quot;Yeah, I know. Many people &quot;I get that all the time, just come.&quot; &quot;Just come, just come.&quot; &quot;I just thought that.&quot; &quot;No, don't worry. Just come please, Come, come. I don't want that, I want someone to Like taxi drivers, there is no person who died in a Just before the crash the Yo! People walking into heaven like, &quot;Yo, dead, dead, dead!&quot; Dead, yeah for sure, we're dead!&quot; &quot;Gone, gone, gone, yeah!&quot; They know. Sometimes they survive the crash Walking on the pavement. &quot;Yo, dead!&quot; Oh. But luckily we did land We landed safely and everyone Yay! Clapped and walked into and that's the point when you realize When you fly international. and then when you land and if you listen carefully you Like South Africa once again, the &quot;No, no, we are going. We Because all over the world they conform women make announcements. It's always a woman, always. and she's always calm Always monotone. Always comes over that system, they bring her the pages one by one. You can be in Heathrow for instance you'll *PA system sound effect* &quot;Attention all passengers. Please note this is an airport announcement. No passengers are permitted as this may be seen Any unattended luggage will be removed by Thank you.&quot; *PA system turns off* Everywhere in the world, even if you go they still conform to that norm. You know you go to places like China where You think and I see some of you probably thinking No, don't even laugh, that's racist Don't even laugh. Don't, hey! Don't, no. That's racist. You don't even laugh. But they're not. They're calm. It's a woman, still the same. She's just another language she'll come on *PA system turns on* &quot;*Calm Chinese jibberish*&quot; *PA system turns off* And you know, you know they've conformed. And then you land in South Africa. And you know you've landed, when you walk into the You walk in and I don't even know if No, no, no. It's almost like who ever is closest to No, you go do it It's the craziest thing! Luckily 99 percent of but she'll come on its the craziest thing *PA system turns on* &quot;ATTENTION ALL PASSENGERS! &quot;ATTENTION ALL PASSENGERS! HELLO! HELLO! I'm talking to you! Hello! All the people that is flying They plane you should go on Yes, all the people must just take a ticket for Just to confirm if your ticket says Just mustn't complain when the plane And you must just phone You must tell them: my plane has changed And then they start speaking to people the &quot;__________.&quot; &quot;__________.&quot; &quot;__________.&quot; yes, chicken, chicken ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ &quot;Okay.&quot; &quot;Okay all the people the gate has changed.&quot; &quot;It's not the D2 it's C15.&quot; &quot;It's not the D2 it's C15.&quot; If you can go to D2, you can find nothing. &quot;Okay, bye bye.&quot; &quot;______________.&quot; That's why I love coming home I get to see the stories from a I am so happy to be back but Two years, you know guys going and you come back to South Africa and I went away for two years, I come back and white people are on strike I thought it was a Leon Schuster sketch In the street, white and immediately you are like No experience what so ever and white people I am not trying but I am just going to say it doesn't have the same gravity of the march of black people and colored people because when people of color in South Africa when white people march it looks like it's just not the same. and then I saw white people got offended because they said we are Zuma must go! Zuma must fall! and then black people didn't join and white people are like Yeah, why won't they join hey? we are marching for this country and because it's racism that why No, guys, guys, guys, black people are not joining your it's because of rhythm I saw white people even if I was on your side I can not participate in that the best white marchers was three old white ladies who had the worst struggle song sounded like a lullaby converted Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Yo, I can't march to that guys I don't even know where to begin you realize a march is ten percent of every march is the when black people march you need along the way you need just some people who get into some people are just there as you walk past *People Striking* People are joining. People are joining. It's got power! you realize, black people are you need a march that will move you every stride has purpose in it *People striking* moving! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! guys we are not even getting No chance. Marching with that song to Pretoria by the time we get there Chilling there in his house in Dubai Laughing *Zuma Laughing* &quot;Did they only arrive just now&quot; I was watching white Why you marching? Hey, now you want to Just pay someone like usual. This is when you should be paying. Just get a professional, a specialist. Just be there, &quot;Johannes?&quot; &quot;I have a lot of grudges with this country and I have noticed that and so I would like to hire your services.&quot; &quot;I got you what's your feeling?&quot; &quot;I just want them to &quot;Okay, got it.&quot; *Marching* &quot;That's what I wanted to do.&quot; Hire a specialist That song will get you nowhere. It's a frustrating time though man The Gupta's came and turned things upside down made us question who I been away for two years, I came the racial tension is all of the sudden everyone is looking You are like damn, McKinsey did a good job. Because don't get me wrong South Africa You know 2010 had us in a different feeling We had rhythm, we had a plan and then all of the sudden it fell with shifty eyes. Separated. Gupta's did a good job. People are angry and I but sometimes I think people's like I saw people fighting because the Gupta's and at that wedding they only and people where like, they are racist! Okay, maybe they are racist or maybe the Gupta's are doing what every black person dreams of and that is hiring white people to work for you. Which black man in this audience can't say he doesn't and he was sitting there some white guy came up to the table, &quot;Good afternoon gentlemen, can &quot;Oh yeah we are just you can send him over.&quot; No, gents. My name is Johnny, I am Oh, you are the waiter? you are the guy serving us? That's correct guys. Oh wow, look at that. Well in that case Johnny lets start with the just riddle it off, riddle it off. Okay guys we have a gazpacho We have also got a seafood salad On the dessert side the chef is doing and then our special line fish of the day Okay, thank you very much, just See you in a bit Johnny. Thank you very much guys. Hey, can you believe it huh? Can you believe it, on my Hey, Johnny, Johnny! Johnny! Yeah, whats going on guys? Uh, nothing. carry on, carry on. This is power. and it was a Sunday morning I was in bed still asleep, it was maybe like 9 or 10 o'clock. and the phone rings and it's my baby brother his name is Isaac, he's 9 years old so I answer the phone like, hello? &quot;Hello, Trevor?&quot; I said, hey Isaac what do you want? &quot;How are you?&quot; I am fine thanks. &quot;I am also fine, thank you.&quot; &quot;I am fine thanks and how are you? &quot;I am fine thanks and how are you? I am fine thank you. &quot;It's a pleasure.&quot; &quot;Oh, and Trevor are you busy?&quot; yes sort of, why? &quot;No, because mom's been shot.&quot; I am sorry, what? &quot;Yeah, mom has been shot and we are Mom's been shot, okay, Okay of course I can and he tells me the hospital. can you come? Like he is to polite for his own good can you come? Like I am going to have to &quot;Oh, coffee at two and then, eish! PlayStation at one, Come on, can I come? of course I can come, I am panicking. I jump out of bed, I am running around I am trying to put my clothes I don't even notice, I don't even care I grab the car keys but I I am busy running around I jump into the car, into the streets as soon as I am out the gate, You cant even control it, you are (Crying) I am driving, I am trying to hold it back but then I get to the and I let it out, it just comes out (crying) NO don't wash my window! No, no, don't, don't! Hey, no, no, hey, no, no! Hey, no. (crying) (crying) there I am, driving to the I get there, jump out the car my brother is standing there I see him outside, he is just standing I am like, Isaac what happened? He's like, &quot;Mom got shot, she's inside&quot; I am like, are you okay? He's like, &quot;mom was shot, not me.&quot; No, that's not what I am saying you idiot whatever, I am coming back So I run inside My mom is in the prep area, all the there is blood everywhere , and just by the way doctors are not as good looking No, like they set the bar really high I was shocked because (Confused) Sorry, that was inappropriate, &quot;Sir, you need to leave&quot; I said I was sorry, what's happening? No sir, you can't be I am like whatever, okay. So I go outside, the nurse &quot;Mr. Noah?&quot; &quot;Okay Mr. Noah, we have your I said, my wife? She said yes, that's Mrs. Noah right? Yes, that's my mom. Oh, I am sorry thought she was Come on, why would you think she is my wife? You think I would, she like have you seen the girls oh, I will show you the pictures She's like, &quot;Okay Mr. Noah your mom has just been stabilized and we are She has been shot in the head and she so this is a very serious thing. I am like, yes it is &quot;Well, we just found out that I said, what? She goes, yeah she Now my mom always had but now it turns out she canceled it a few years ago I didn't know this, she canceled it because she never gets sick. you know those people? I never get sick, I I never get sick, I don't know why Yes, but you didn't think of bullets. Now she is in the hospital, no medical aid So I said to the nurse, what does this mean? She says well it means we are going to and send her to a public hospital. I said, but she is bleeding She said, &quot; I am sorry sir but that is all Now I am panicking, a public hospital? Normally a good place to go, normally but now what's happening is money is going missing, you they don't have the right equipment now I am picturing guys There's the doctor, &quot;give me a scalpel&quot; &quot;We got a spanner&quot; &quot;Yeah, bring it. At least it's a shifting okay, lets try something.&quot; I am stressed. so I said, well what do we She says, &quot;well, nothing sir.&quot; I said well what if I She says, &quot;well, you don't know you can't unless you give us your card I said well take my card, She goes, &quot;Sir, it can I said, this is my mom this is my mom, you use the money. She goes, don't tell me it's expensive this is my mother we are I realized through this I he's been standing there the So I am like hey Isaac, what's on your mind man you okay big boy? His like, &quot;Trevor?&quot; Yes? &quot;can I come to your house and How can you ask me about PlayStation, you cant be asking me about that, whats You know what, you are never going no PlayStation for you ever in your life, ever Go away, go sit down and think PlayStation, how the hell is he the nurse comes back and we just used R900 for I am like okay, why are It's R900, this is my mom. She goes away. R900, how she comes back and says, &quot; Mr. Noah This is my mom, not a pair of jeans use the money, go! She goes away, I am like busy asking me questions over here My mom is gonna die, that's all I am saying, and I He starts crying. (crying) I am like, Isaac I am sorry. I am sorry, are you okay? He says, &quot;I am not okay&quot; &quot;you said I am never going to play and I wanna play Need for Speed I am like, you still crying about PlayStation? you have no right to cry, you hear me! Shut up, stop crying! You cant cry about this, Now a woman comes out, she now she thinks I am telling my She just gets involved, she is like &quot;Hey, you let him cry okay! you let him cry, some people you let him cry!&quot; I am like I will not let him cry many kids grow up without one, okay this is not, it's fine like, he should go play it's not the time to cry you spoil your kids, you take it away from them so You and you, you both shut up! I am telling them this, She goes, &quot;Mr Noah, we I am like, so do the surgery. She says, &quot;yes but sir, ICU and surgery is very expensive&quot; I am like, Lady what is expensive? She says, &quot;anywhere from like R20,000&quot; I am like, R20,000? &quot;all the way to like R500,000.&quot; Yo, but she has lived hey? I mean I mean she is like what 56, 57? it's almost finished, you know? even she says she is old, I mean. You said the bullet is in the head, yo, because with that money we we need to buy scones for everybody this guy needs a so I don't know if she says, &quot;Sir we need the go ahead I said okay, well use the card. we will handle the debt She goes away, I am stressed because I have seen this happen to people go into hospital, don't use your credit card and the next and the person could die the person dies and when they die the doctor doesn't give No, no he doesn't because he tried and you will get there and be He would be like and your money is gone that is all I was stressed about but the most amazing thing happened turns out my mother was not that badly hurt. it was a miracle really the ass bullets didn't do much damage because my family is gifted. the head bullet didn't hit anything vital other than the head, obviously but it missed her spinal cord missed the nerves, went right through, missed the eye hit the eye socket and deflected and all it did was cut a just one side and the bullet went out clean. which meant she didn't have to and her recovery was only a week. Yeah, a week. because that means the bill was only R24,000. and she is alive, yes was only R24,000 this was great, really great because R25,000 was my cut-off so You laugh but that is how much I for all the Ultra Mel custard everything else, none of my business food, clothes, schooling, all I hate it when the parents &quot;You know how hard I have to work &quot;No, no, no! I didn't ask to be born, Please, you handle that I asked for the Ultra Mel, don't involve me in your things.&quot; and that is what I calculated, R25,000. I would have been there, R24,750 I would have been Hey Doc, it's fine my man. no, you tried you tried, it's cool no you tried, just switch How much, 250 left? we will pop a draw, just you tried. it was fantastic I told my mom about she didn't know I was serious. and to show you what a my mom is in the recovery ward she has got these tubes and an I.V and my brother is in the and my grandmother is in the and I am holding my mom's still crying, this is a week later. (crying) I have been crying the whole week but I have also been using this time No, because as a man you you loop it all together and you like we cry in bulk, cry in bulk. so I am crying for everything (crying) and my mom looks at me and she goes &quot;Shh Trevor, don't I said no mom I got to cry, She says no, look on the bright side I said, what bright side? She said, at least now you are officially the best I was like, by default. That was probably the worst time ever flying into America, as an African during the Ebola crisis. It was the craziest thing I have ever seen in an Airport. You walk in, there'd be tension. They'd usher everybody into a special quarantine area. Ask you questions, questions that they don't normally ask. "Sir, have you been in contact with Ebola?" They would always ask, "Sir, have I love the sincerity of the question, like "And next stop, Disney World." Like what kind of person do you think I am, Having knowingly been in contact with Who do you think I am? That I'd be there like, "cough, cough, I don't care!" "Booking.com has a zero refund policy." "I am going to Disney World even if it kills me, "Have you been in contact with Ebola?" And then he said it like it was a "Have you been in contact with Ebola?" "Yes, I spoke to him last week, he is doing well." "Thank you very much for asking." Ebola made flying a nightmare. One of the worst flights, I was coming from We flew and because of the distance of the And then they change over your and then that plane takes you to San Francisco. And when we were changing The air hostess on the second plane tells the And because of this, they are going to be You know I understand, when people are What I didn't understand was, Why she told them this, Have the decency to speak behind our backs. Because we were walking onto the aircraft and "Ladies and gentlemen please note we have some "They are coming from Africa, if everybody "as these passengers find their places" "We're going to be spraying the cabin with "and feel free to cover your "The pesticide shouldn't be harmful, but it may be" "So if everybody would just cover up" "and we will be coming down shortly as everybody She says this as we board the plane. This is our introduction, "Ebola crisis". "Hallo, Hallo, Hallo" Do you know how hard it is to find a seat in a plane Do you know how hard it is? You sitting there, and it almost starts As I am walking down the "you can't sit here" "no space" Just walking down, Finally everyone is seated, we take off. Plane heads out to San Francisco. And it was by far the most intense flight I have ever been on. I coughed once. The plane shook. It wasn't even a bad cough, just a little tickle. I was like, "cough, cough" The guy opposite me was just like, "EBOLA!!!!" "EBOLA!!!" I was like, "yo dude, "it's just AIDS, you're safe buddy." "Calm down, it's okay." Everyone was so stressed. The plane was tense. We finally land at the airport. The plane is taxing to the gate, And everyone, everyone was waiting Everyone was just, like it was more than normal cause already I never understand why people are in a hurry Because you can't go anywhere. Remember when a plane lands, everyone is You can't go, you're gonna go there, You literally go there. Their like, "come on, come on" "Yeah" I don't understand why people are in a hurry. You know who is even worse, You have no right to be in a hurry. You are sitting there like, *sound of seat belt releasing* "oh that's good, yeah" "pass me my luggage, "I am glad I didn't sit down for two more Just stay in your seat, just wait. Ebola made it worse, Because now everyone wants Coughing, sneezing, you can feel the The air hostess comes back "Ladies and gentlemen, everybody back in your "Unfortunately, right now we have a health and safety "just to make sure that everything is okay due to Ebola" "we are just going to make sure everything is fine, "again, apologies for the delay." She says this and then this man comes And he has with him a list of all the A digital laser thermometer and he comes on. and his job is to scan all the African And I think the way it works is if you So his got the list and he walks And gets the thing, walks down and Gets the temperature, names, temperature, names. Finally he gets to where I am seated. And he does the weirdest thing, Moves to my isle. Looks at me, looks at my name. Looks back at me. And then he just shrugs and walks away. "nah" Almost as if, I wasn't African enough. I have never felt so conflicted in my life. Because, don't get me wrong. I never want anyone to think I have Ebola. But I also don't want anyone You don't know me. You don't know what I am capable of, I this guy just ignored me he walks away, like chin up Trevor, you could have Ebola chin up, come on, come on, come on you can have Ebola and he walks to the back of the plane he scans the rest of the passengers gets to the tail and he so he looks back through the plane, I know it's me, I know it's me but I'm not going to help him he had his chance, he had a so I watch him panic and as he panic's the air hostess and she goes hey whats going on, I He goes, yeah I know. I can't figure out where the passenger is. She's like yeah, I got to get the people out He's like, look I know. This is killing She's like, yeah, yeah, if I don't get them He's like, Now you can feel the tension people start whispering, because some people are just like a broken telephone all they are hearing is yeah, and she's like everybody out of here, dead, dead. you can feel the tension people start looking at each other the guy opposite me didn't even it's you, you have Ebola, it's you! I was like, dude I don't have He's like,&quot;it's you damn it, it's you! I was like, if you don't shut up I will cough I will cough He is like what I'll kill you! (coughing) everyone in the plane starts losing it the people are going people want to leave in the middle of the chaos, I will never forget, maybe four rows behind me, he stands up and he sticks his head into between the air hostesses and the safety official and he goes, &quot;Excuse me, pardon me sorry to interrupt I couldn't help noticing I just want to say maybe you want to check there's this black gentlemen that man, he was wearing a hood, it made me a little uncomfortable, you know what they say, see something say something, you know. I did go to Zambia though. Fantastic place Zambia. Went there, visited the While I was there I had a chaperone His name was Alinani, sweet guy. And his job was to get me And every day he would give me a new piece of Like one day he looks at me and goes, "Trevor, you know Zambia is a I said, "Oh, okay Ali. He says, "Yea, And I said I can do that, I assumed he meant swearing. But I didn't say anything because I wasn't No, no, because in Zambia people So, that's how I laughed when I met Screwdriver. Yea, because you see In South Africa we have African Like Happiness, Blessing and Hope. But then in Zambia People give their names, of everyday English words, anything. So like, table, chair, car, house. You see, like you just It's very hard, but you have Which was difficult because I met a mechanic, And that was not, especially when Brake And his dad was there like, "stop it Brake, And I was like, "Hey, stop it Brake. Ha Ha." But you have to get used to it, it's a cultural thing. And so, you have to respect it. And the second warning Ali gave We are driving thru Lusaka, the capital. And Ali looks over at me in the car and goes, Trevor, you know here in Zambia I said, "Oh, okay Ali. That's He says, "Yes, I said, "What?" He says, "I know it can be tempting "Don't be gay." "Don't be gay?" I have never been warned of "Hey bru, don't be gay. Don't be gay." "Don't be gay?" Crazy, crazy warning to get. But then I found out Turns out in Zambia being gay is illegal. If you are found to be gay you will be arrested and sent to prison for more than thirty years, yeah. Which is a bit of a weird punishment. When you think about it. I mean I am not saying that I am just saying if I was gay That's not the worst thing They would be like, "you I would be like, "Oh no." Don't be gay? I couldn't believe this, Which got me thinking. If gay is a crime, They actually have to police gay. Yeah. Which means in their police It's a crime, it's a crime. So that means they have a murder unit, a And then they got a gay unit. Yeah, they have got a little That's responsible for all things gay. That must be the most fun police You get to go under cover, dress up really nice. Get in touch with your flamboyant I bet the sergeant's there every "Good morning Detectives." "Welcome everybody, today we will "We have just been informed of a fashion And as you know, the gays cannot Therefore we will be in full attendance Let us make sure we are here." "Detective Chepoa?" "Present!" "Detective Table?" "Present!" "Detective Mongai?" "Present!" "I think his in to deep." How do you police gay? do they stop you if you look I mean, gay doesn't have a look. But maybe you So the police pull up there and is like, *police siren* "What is the purpose of that flamboyant scarf?" "Put your hands up!" "Turn around! Don't tempt "You are going to jail." How do you police gay? Do they have roadblocks? Do they have gay roadblocks? hey are just like stopping "Good evening Officer" "Good evening Sir" "License Please?" "Thank you very much, Mr. Stylish. Hey?" "Tell me Sir, "No, I have not been gay. "I see, not even one or two?" "No, No. No gays for me. No gays for me." "Okay" "Then tell me Sir." "What is that I can smell on your breath?" "Is that balls?" "No, no, no, I" "I don't even eat chutney, No" "A ha" "So you are not gay?" "No, not gay at all" "Then Sir, can you please blow into this?" Ahh Don't be gay. I was not gay while I was in Went around and saw the people. The highlight of my trip I asked Ali for suggestions. Ali said to me, "Maybe you should travel "just have a good time." I said to Ali I want to do something special. He said, "Oh well, in that case" "Maybe you can go to the "you can ride the escalators." I said, "What?" "Hey, I am not promising anything" "but if you are early, maybe you can go once or twice." I said, "Escalators?" "I know, mind-blowing ha?" I thought he was messing with me. Until I found out people just to ride the escalators. It seems ridiculous until When we were in Zambia there were Five, in the whole country. The first escalator was built in August. Not August 19?? No, no. You remember August. Past August? They built they're first escalators, ever. Yeah, and so now it is all the rage. People But now, I don't want you to That's not what Zambia is, They are developing just as we They got airports, the have beautiful hotels. Stunning shopping Malls. They've got everything we The have just never had escalators. And now they started building them. And because of that people go there, and Yeah, Dads will go home and fetch their kids. "Children, we are going to the mall." "To do what Daddy?" "To do shopping, and to ride the escalators!" "Yay!" We couldn't believe this so We get to the mall. The mall is empty. Escalators are packed! People are standing in lines going There's old people, There were couples. Guys that "I am going to take you "Oh, you are so fancy hey?" Escalators. Some people didn't even Kids were easy, they just jumped on. There was one guy who got on the And I guess to compensate for He started leaning. He fell down! He was hurt so badly. Oh, it was fantastic to watch. We spent like three hours doing this, And you know what? Our patients paid off, because A school brought a class of children to the mall. And their excursion was It was magic. Thirty kids, about five years old. Cutest things, And they are standing there And they were so excited, they were shining. Not from excitement, that Vaseline. And there is two teachers with the children, And in a long train they start to And as they do the start singing at the "Escalator" "Escalator" "Escalator" "ohhhhhhhh, escalator" "Escalator" It was the sweetest thing ever. People are waving at them, smiling. And these kids see the escalators. And they lost, their minds. These kids went crazy. They're not holding hands, they It looked like a zombie movie, or something. They are jumping, but then you It's like the end of Saraphina. You are These kids are screaming. They are The teacher can't control them. "Hey! Get back! Get Back!" "Two-by-two! Two-by-two!" Two-by two was one of the She's like, "Two-by-Two! Next to Other kids are still jumping, There was one fat kid. He couldn't "Escalator!" "Escalator!" It was the most amazing thing it's like I had gone in a time machine to a time when escalators were new brand new and popular so popular that people where using their iPhone's Tephiwa! technology, ah ah ah who even thinks of these we are in the future now my what are we going to see next? I wonder how it works, Siri, how does an escalator work? I don't know You may or may not this is great. Thank you very much, thank you. So, so that's fun Phoned my grandmother to which was really cool I don't think she understood but still she was happy. Phoned my Gran, she was I was like,Granny I am going She was like, &quot;Woo, Trevor&quot; &quot;I am so happy for you.&quot; &quot;You got a job.&quot; I said, &quot;No, no, Go-go. &quot;No, I already had a job Go-go.&quot; &quot;I already had a job.&quot; She is like, &quot;No, you didn't.&quot; &quot;Did you have an office?&quot; I said, &quot;No&quot; She's like, &quot;then it wasn't a job.&quot; &quot;Well done Trevor.&quot; My mom was a bit better. Phoned her, she was on the ball. You know, and to give you a bit of a back-story I have two younger brothers, right. I have a, one brother is and then the youngest is And so, the youngest one who's 11 just became head boy of his school. He is the head prefect Yeah so, no, no, this is my show, you don't clap for him. Please, they didn't clap I work hard for my applause, So anyway, so I phoned, So I phoned my mom to tell her and I am on the phone and I'm and she's like, &quot;Oh baby &quot;Oh, this is so wonderful, &quot;this is so great, Oh, and did you &quot;He became head boy at his school&quot; &quot;Oh, I am so happy. Both my And I was like, &quot;Yeah.&quot; &quot;Some things are bigger than others.&quot; She's like, &quot;No baby, it's all the same to me&quot; &quot;It's all the same.&quot; I was like, &quot;You say that &quot;I mean you know, if She's like, &quot;okay fine, fine.&quot; &quot;I'll be honest.&quot; &quot;You where never a prefect, so&quot; &quot;Dammit!&quot; That's when I wish I had a That's when I wish I had a land-line. I have those land-line moments in my life So I could slam it down. Young people will never know the joy Of slamming the phone at the end of a call. That feeling where you get to *Slamming the phone down* Ah, it feels so good. They "Agh!" It's like you punched Now with phones you are There's no sense of power, "Screw you!" *Pushing button* That's all you have. And you because you are scared *Pushing button* I hate cellphones so much. I think they are robbing I honestly believe cellphones That human beings devolve. We are going back to the stone Everything about them are Neanderthals. I was looking at my I spend so much time texting That I feel like they have started I have gotten really good at Everything about those phones. Are robbing us of our humanity. We were proud because we evolved. And then we got our phones and now And over time we are gonna go back. Down. Have you tried to have a conversation Literally sounds like a caveman. *Sound of a monkey* We have lost it. We don't know Now we use those emoji's. Emoji, emoji, emoji, emoji. No one even uses words. Sent a paragraph to your friend, "Had a They reply. And did you hear she died? *Sad face emoji* That's it? No words? Emoji's are basically the We judged cave men. We think they were primitive Someone's going to think The way we look at cave men and go, "Oh, the cave man, he was so simple." "And he was hunting, and "Simple." Someone is going to see our And they will go, "Oh, look at that. "Oh, look at that. They "Sometimes they laughed until they cried." "Some of them where "But that didn't stop *crazy face emoji* "Aww" "And there was monkeys "Monkeys that didn't listen." "And they were always dancing "2015, a simple time." We don't communicate anymore. We got our emoji's. Phones I fear most for woman, the most I fear for you, I fear ladies. I fear for what the Woman are obsessed with selfies. The average woman spends 50% of her day thinking That's all she's thinking about. "Oh, let's take a selfie. Can we take "Take a selfie of me taking "Oh, this is great. Selfie-ception. Everyone's just in there. And you know what's fine? On Instagram, "like my Yea, it looks normal. But have you seen what It is the creepiest thing you A normal woman sitting by herself, having And all of the sudden she And something in her head goes weird. And she transforms She will just be there, looking at her phone. Going "I just randomly took a picture." "Caught off guard." "hashtag, I woke up like this." "hashtag, no you didn't, &quot;hashtag, stop that shit." recently because of my job on The Daily Show I got invited to very prestigious events I've started getting invited to very, very fancy functions. Functions I would have never You know, recently I got He never knew me before this. And before that I got invited to an event in New York Called: The Met Gala, a very prestigious event. Where 500 people are gathered together. come together. Actors, Singers, And you spend the night, dressed very nicely. Looking at History and Art. You just walk around, smiling, looking sophisticated. And it's so exclusive, that they tell you Not dress code, exactly what you are going to wear. So I got phoned and they said, "Trevor, I was like, "Wow, okay." And they said, "You will be And I was like, "Okay, how much." "is a Ralph Lauren suit?" But they were like, "No, we provide it for you." "Ralph Lauren is going to be giving you the suit." And I was like, "Wow, I get to go to the Ralph "They were like, "No, the man Ralph Do you know how mind-blowing that is? To meet the man whose name is on your clothing? Like that's never happened to me, To meet the man whose name is on my clothing. I have never had the chance to say, This is a new world for me. Here I am wearing his suit, And they tell you it is going to be a fun You get there, you eat with some You walk the red carpet, which sounds like fun. You know red carpet sounds like fun. You walk It is a lot more stress than it seems. Because you have to look perfect. I didn't know And they are so strict about it, that they have That you don't see on T.V And in that tent, they prepare everybody. All the celebrities stand in the tent together, and Everybody's hair, nothing is crumpled up. Nothing. And everyone's there together, which was pretty cool. Because you see all the celebrities getting dressed basically. And you know everyone. They don't So you are there looking at They're like, "Hey, how are you?" And you like, "Oh hi, I am Trevor. Nice to meet you." She's like, "Oh, Beyonce." And you're like, "Yeah" "come on, come on." "I know you, I know you from But you can't say that, you can't. Because You got to look like you belong. So now you are meeting people that you Which makes you look like a jackass. Because "Beyonce? Did I say it right? Beyonce?" "Nice to meet you Beyonce." "Oh and this? Oh, Jay-Z nice to meet you sir." "Yes, Yes." You just look like an idiot. So I am standing there, And then there's a guy who basically tells each You walk out onto the red carpet, and When you walk out the first They take pictures for all their When they are done with you, you That's the European photographers. And then you move to the last section. Asian They take pictures, and then you walk into the event. So you walk through each one, they tell you to smile. Don't smile too much, it closes your eyes. Don't not smile, it makes you look angry. And pose with your body and your head. Pose with body and head, because some Don't do that, turn everything at the same time. I'm like ready, I can do this. So I am in the tent with And they guy is calling people Because they don't want two people in the same shot. They don't want Beyonce there and So the guy is like, "We're ready guys, we're ready. "Rihanna, Let's get Rihanna out. Rihanna come on." "How are you? Good to see you. Come on through." So Rihanna walks out. "Ann Hathaway, Ann. How are you? Come on Ann." "Good to see you. Go on, go on." And then it's my turn. And the guy is like, "You!" "Yea, you. Come on, let's go." I'm like, "Me? Yeah okay." He's like, "are you ready?" I said, "Yeah." He's like, "Go on." And I stepped out. Immediately when I got out I I was not ready. I have never seen You step out and it seems like every camera All of them screaming, it's like, *Camera's taking pictures* It looks like someone threw a teaspoon *Camera's taking pictures* And everyone is screaming your name. It's like, Trevor! Now you are trying to find them, you look "Trevor! Trevor! Trevor! Trevor!" You're like, "Yes, speak to me Jesus." You're trying, you don't know They are like, "Trevor! Trevor! Trevor! Trevor! Trevor!" And then one guy throws me of, He's like, "Trevor! Give us a pose!" And I'm like, "a pose?" He's like, "Yea, a pose." I'm like, "No, I don't know how to No one told me, so now I am like. I don't know And then the guy says, "pose!" And I He's like, "Something sexy." I'm like, "Sexy?" I don't even know what sexy is. And when I read magazines. I go straight to the woman section, I don't look I look at J-Lo and Kim Kardashian. So he's like, "Sexy" I'm like, "sexy?" So I just go The guy is like, "What the hell? Okay, stop, stop. That's good." "That's good. Okay, go on, go on. That was stressful, so I move Now I am getting there, I am still stressed. The bright lights have got my eyes The guy is like, "Okay Trevor, are you "all right, over here! Over there! Some guys didn't know my name Because one guy said Trevor and another guy said Trevor. And the other guys where just like, But it's sort of like a dog, Like if your dog's name is Spottie and I did the same thing. They were like, I am sure there was one guy who like And I was like. I didn't care. I was in the mix, I was posing. And the guy's like, "Good job, go on, go on." And I walked down and I And I stood there, and all And then they just looked at me. It was. I don't think you guys, like It was the weirdest. Because it was like, flashing, Flashing, screaming, flashing, snapping. Silence. I got there And they just looked at me. And then they looked at each other. And they looked back at me. They look at me like you look at food But no one has ordered it. That's the way that they looked at me. Like they were waiting for the menu. Like for the waiter to come and be "Did you order, did you order, who ordered. "We ordered celebrities, we "No, no. We don't know, we didn't order." That's how they looking at me. Now I am Because I have been taught to do I'm doing, nothings working. Not They are just looking at me and Because I was embarrassed, I am not going to lie. No one is taking a picture, no one told me So instead of just walking away. I started making the sounds with my mouth. Just a defense mechanism I guess. So I panicked, and in the silence I was just like, "Trevor! Trevor! Trevor! Trevor! Trevor!" *sound of cameras flashing* "Trevor! Trevor" And now they are just looking at me like, I was like, "Good job, good job. Bye." The newspaper say that, he's famous. And people start treating you like you're Strangest thing people would Well done on everything hey. "But, even though you are going to America" "Don't forget us alright? Don't you forget us." Like, "I don't even know who you are." People would say the weirdest things to me. You It's not good luck. It's "Hey Trevor" "Good luck over there, but whatever you do." "Don't forget your accent, alright?" "Yes please. Don't pull a Charlize on us, okay?" "You keep your accent, make us proud." Everyone said that. "Treva bro!" Treva Noah!" Hey, mom's child. You are making us proud." "You do us proud, but can I ask you a favor?" "Don't lose your accent, okay? Don't lose your accent." "Yes. When you come back from the States, "Please Brother. If you lose "Did you just threaten me?" What does that mean? How do you lose your accent? People make it sound And then just out of the blue, you are like, *Searching his pockets* "My accent!" "I lost my accent!" "Where the hell is my... Oh! "Oh, Hello. No! That's How are you going to lose your accent? I was stressed now. Because I don't want South Africans I don't want them to think I have Now I am stressed coming home. I am in the plane, flying back to Johannesburg. And the whole time I am thinking, "don't lose "Ac-accent, Accent, Ac-accent" "Is that how I say accent? Accent, accent, excent, excent" "axe end, ecsent, accent." By the time I landed at O.R I like walked into arrivals, the "Welcome back to South Africa Sir." I was like, "Yes, I'm back!" "Same old Treva!" "Nothing changed." People are crazy. I love accents. I really love accents. I love learning languages and so I've learned over time That even you can't learn a way to communicate with whilst trying to bridge the gap you learned somebody's accent, the thing is though, you have to if you are going to speak to someone in you might come across as racist you have to be very careful about this. White people in South Africa It happens at petrol stations quite a bit. you see people driving in with their "So, I mean. If we get all the numbers together and " it should be a breather, HR has &quot;It's going to be a great year and we *electric window winding down* &quot;Hello Baba!&quot; &quot;Hey, shop, shop man!&quot; &quot;Please fill up the tank, hey?&quot; &quot;95, Unleaded. Yeah!&quot; &quot;Also check ama tires, Hey?&quot; &quot;Pressure. Pumpy, pumpy! &quot;two point two, okay?&quot; &quot;Yea, good jobie. Shop , shop.&quot; &quot;Dankie boss.&quot; Don't do that. He is a grown man, he has been He knows what you need. Just talk to him like a normal human being. That's the thing people don't understand Speak to him like a normal human being. I used to get so angry whenever I see when they talk to black people. I was like,&quot;are all white people racist? is and then I leaned. Life taught I learned a valuable lesson. I was Into the backstage area. and the security guard came out &quot;Hi, how are you. Is I said, &quot;Yes, how are you Baba? He's like, &quot;Okay. Trebal, Trebal, Trebal.&quot; I said, &quot;No, no. Trevor.&quot; He's like, &quot; Oh, sorry. Cheval, Cheval, Cheval, Cheval.&quot; I said, &quot;No, Trevor.&quot; &quot;Cheva.&quot; &quot;Trevor.&quot; &quot;Chelva&quot; &quot;Trevor&quot; &quot;Chelva&quot; &quot;Trevor&quot; &quot;Chelval&quot; &quot;Trevor&quot; &quot;Trevor&quot; &quot;Cavel, Cav, Chavil, &quot;Trevor&quot; &quot;Trevor&quot; and now my friend who is just &quot;Hey, Papa. His Treva!&quot; He was like, &quot;Oh, Treva!&quot; &quot;Why you don't talk properly?&quot; And then I understood,I finally understood. I see you are trying to communicate more But understand this, understand this. When speaking to someone in an accent, an accent is not a An accent is just somebody speaking your That is all an accent is. down to them, don't patronize them. Speak to them the way you would speak to yourself. Just try and learn their accent, and I learn them. I spend all I try, I love it. I learn in restaurants, You learn, you read of the menu. You I was inspired by French restaurants. Whenever I go to a French By the way that people ordered food in an Because they don't do it in any other restaurants, and then change their They come in talking normally. &quot;you know it's &quot;It's so beautiful, stunning. You have to have &quot;Yes, we will have a bottle of &quot;Let's start of with a, can we &quot;and we definitely for mains &quot;and for dessert we gonna &quot;Thank you very much. Oh, you gonna love it.&quot; Like, why are you doing that? I Because it's not like the French There's no French people sitting in our restaurants &quot;Uh, so for the table we can order&quot; &quot;some starter portion, we &quot;Uh, could we please have, uh&quot; &quot;one serving of the boerewors.&quot; that's not gonna happen.