Amazon is on a spending spree to grow its shipping business and compete network by 50% year-over-year, using all that growth to get into the big delivering to your door even when you didn't order on the world's biggest They want to be a new kind of U.S. Postal Service where everything can get In 2014, Amazon started building its global transportation network from 400,000 drivers worldwide, 40,000 semitrucks, 30,000 vans and a fleet of Northern Kentucky in August. I don't think anybody in the industry would be surprised if this enormous shipping service that would compete directly with somebody like UPS or Although Amazon still depends on UPS and the Postal Service for more than a Instead, Amazon is competing with them, already offering shipping services Eventually they were going to offer it to someone else. That's just how the usually focusing on the right numbers, and so they're usually able to get CNBC headed to an online merchant conference in Las Vegas to talk to former likely to be the behemoth's next big venture. Back in 1994, when it was just a website selling books, Amazon says Jeff himself. As business grew, it relied on UPS, the Postal Service and to a In the old days, Amazon worked with FedEx, UPS, they needed help delivering Prime members. Nowadays, Amazon has way more planes than they used to. Now Amazon's got 300 million customers in 200+ countries. Former Amazon volume was overwhelming even the most established nationwide shippers. It turned out that UPS couldn't handle the volume. So at that point, our VP be hamstrung in our growth by a third-party service provider. We have to By 2014, Amazon says it wanted better control. So it started developing a reliable delivery. It really hasn't taken them that long to build that capability. It's a really hard thing to do. And other companies, you know, won't be able to In 2019, Amazon was delivering less than 47% of its own packages. Now in warehouses. In 2018, 51% of the U.S. population lived within an hour of an expenditures, which includes logistics expansion grew by a whopping 80% I don't think they had a choice. They knew that it was going to be a to meet that standard for their customers. In 2019, Amazon changed the game when it made one-day shipping the norm. Amazon. But Amazon still depends on UPS and the Postal Service. At least USPS delivers to every zip code every small town in America, and Amazon According to one investigation, Amazon has already begun quietly known right now for being on time or efficient. So it may be that Amazon's logistics-as-a-service program in the U.K. Researchers from DePaul next 18 months. While Morgan Stanley predicted it could happen this year. to consumers rather than trying to replicate the vast array of services Well they're not going to be just this blanket carrier that will deliver of cherry-picking the routes they want to run and sort of the parcel sizes Like all carriers, Amazon experienced significant shipping delays during 200 million in 2020. And as the number of customers grew, so too did new $1.5 billion Amazon air hub in Kentucky. Planes were always part of the plan because, you know, if you're trying to Amazon launched its air cargo division in 2016, contracting with several warehouses. The Kentucky hub has been in development for four+ years, with It's going to let us get packages to customers faster. And that's a big The new 600-acre Amazon hub at the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky A smaller 20,000-square-foot Amazon air hub opened in Germany last competitive risk to UPS and FedEx. By 2019, it had 50 planes. But it also 33% less than they got paid to fly similar cargo planes for UPS and FedEx. I don't believe that consumers will ever go backwards from where we are. It's going to take a lot of coordination between the big companies, Amazons equitable and sustainable. After six+ years of labor negotiations, many Amazon pilots now have a new or owns more than 70 aircraft that fly to 35+ destinations in the U.S. and 576. At 70+ planes, Amazon's reach is still smaller, but its rapid growth flights in August 2020 to 140 in February 2021. Predicting Amazon will have investment in the most expensive part of the shipping process: getting a drivers, individual gig workers who make between $18 and $25 an hour Service Partners, or DSPs, small independent companies that contract offering $10,000 to incentivize current Amazon employees, veterans, Black, than 2,000 DSPs in the U.S. Ultimately, it's a very low cost structure compared to the competitors. And stories that are coming out, which are growing in number, unfortunately, But DSP drivers have voiced big concerns lately, from cameras recording keep up the pace. Which is definitely disgusting, you know, getting into the vans the next the cupholders. Regardless, Amazon's army of drivers and branded vehicles is only growing. tested in 16 cities now, with 10,000 of them scheduled to hit the road next I think there are some growing pains there. But once they sort out some of way Instacart was or Uber driving is. For its growing number of international shipments, Amazon uses ocean shipments, Amazon has 40,000 Prime-branded semitruck trailers, and it's got Very few companies are filling in an entire 53-foot truck to ship operating at 20-30% capacity, Amazon's smart enough to know hey, we should capital that we've invested in these things. Keith Gregory's vitamin and supplement company is based in a 3,500-person They've reached out to us very aggressively trying to get us to work with products. They're interested in LTL and freight for our other segments of handling for us. The Amazon Freight program lets sellers like Gregory take advantage of LTL, make money on otherwise wasted space. Gregory just started using the for some of his routes from Oregon to Southern California. They certainly seem to want to own the market. And, you know, for us being they're willing to accommodate pickup schedules and not just say, okay, the rate piece, but the fact that they're also willing to, you know, use UPS and FedEx are not cooperative in that sense with us. Amazon has this odd imbalance where they have an enormous amount of goods leaving empty going other places. Again, a kind of a classic Amazon thing anyone to use externally, they're able to, you know, now have more revenue. Many Amazon sellers like Bernie Thompson, pay to use a service called warehouse and rely on Amazon to pack and ship out customer orders. Amazon There were points in time in our company's existence where really Amazon on eBay, Newegg, Walmart, Google. Amazon calls this multi-channel fulfillment. Thompson uses it for many of Seattle. So if you go today and buy a Plugable product on eBay, it's actually going delivery service. This explains why some orders from eBay or Walmart and others arrive at varying success, Amazon's had on-off programs over the years to fulfill items from the never really succeeded at that. Like, we were part of that program, and super colorful Amazon marketing Christmas tape. You know, and these were I think the killer feature will be when Amazon is able to do branded aspects to that fulfillment package so that a customer doesn't brand of the merchant. So why does Amazon want to take on the expensive behind-the-scenes job of reputation for the lowest prices online. It might cost me say $3.30 to send an envelope type of product across the order, let's say an eBay order, might be $5.70 or something like that. And product, you will almost always find the Amazon price lower than the eBay If they can double, even add 30% more revenue and capacity because they're internet, it does help them get more scale, more costs benefits, especially Amazon customer volume. There was in fact already a program called Amazon Shipping being tested in the pandemic. Amazon drivers would pick up packages from businesses and You'll see this start off in a couple of markets. And you know, they'll markets and then they'll expand the program more broadly. And if you look at all of the third-party services that they opened up to the business to service their own. And by bringing in additional revenue a situation where they can gain more market share, more market power, and Indeed, Amazon's current shipping expansion is reminiscent of other times Video and Amazon Web Services. I was part of the process for making sure that FBA sellers were compliant Let's use it. And then when AWS started, we have excess capacity. Let's use course it's going to be excess capacity, they're going to try to sell it to partners about how to keep costs down. For example, it still primarily last-mile portion to those small delivery service partner contractors. What Amazon is able to do right now is sort of pick off probably the most most densely populated areas. On the extreme end, some think there's a chance Amazon will try to buy Down the road, I think Amazon will be so big, so powerful and so wealthy, But one thing is certain. Amazon says it's continuing to spend on beyond. Amazon is a company that will unabashedly compete with everyone. They will they will compete with themselves. And it's not a bad thing. It's just