PAUL FREEDMAN: So last collapse of the Roman Empire. And I didn't quite definitively question: External force There are other possible historian of the barbarian says committed suicide by accident. That essentially it was just The wrong people became Some bad things happened it was, it was gone. I'm not sure I buy that; I like But it is important to emphasize is contingency and not Historians generally tend to had to happen. As if there's sort of long-term inevitably. And the longer or the farther period that he or she is tendency because the look So in talking about both the want to at least remind you that other ways. There are lots of long-term about a series of factors immediate and long term. This is relevant to talking and who they are. Which is more of a mystery Who they are as in, what does it a Visigoth? How much have I described And despite the business about the only thing they As we have tried to emphasize, They wanted to share in its We've emphasized accommodation said that this is the the end of the world. It is the end of a certain maybe transformation of that end of civilization. They're not invaders Where do they come from? Who are they? What are these aspects That's partly what we want to the barbarian kingdoms after So 476 to 530. What happens in 530 is that embarks on a reconquest under the emperor Justinian. And that will be the discussion a week from today. Any questions in Notice that in the Burgundian the Burgundians, call themselves They distinguish between Even though they use the word, barbarians, or tribes, or absolute well-defined terms absolute well-defined What do we know about they enter the Empire? We know something from But as they moved around, as I have settlements, but they're They have gravesites. People who have gravesites with moving around a lot. So that's one indication. And the gravesites sometimes buried with them. And among other things, they the Roman Empire because artifacts in them. Well, OK. But we actually don't find The main written source for Germanic tribes delicately, is better known, or best known, annals of the history But also the author of a brief German tribes. For Tacitus, the Germans- that the Rhine frontier- are both They're warlike. From the Roman point of view, invading the Empire and Hence the defensive kinds of The Rhine, or in Britain, still see in the north of Scottish border. That to guard not against Scots, in particular. Tacitus portrays the Germans Around the year 100 is But he never visited Germania. And if you'd asked him, well, if them, shouldn't you do he'd have looked at you Go there? Me? Moi? You've got to be kidding. The reason he wrote the work anthropological description of berating the Romans. If you describe people who are can use that to castigate Rousseau's noble savage where to attack supposedly civilized Or descriptions of the South Melville's earlier works. Or Robert Louis Stevenson. Or Gauguin's paintings. Contrast a beautiful, natural, the fatiguing rat race of what So Tacitus' Germans are warlike, personal bravery and honor. They have close family ties. They're heterosexuals. They treat their women well. All of these are supposed to who's a bit of a scold, Tacitus sees as Roman decadence. The Romans are given None of that in the German to same sex love. Oh, no, no, no. The Germans know that They don't practice divorce, Now this is not-- This is a moralistic rather than He does condemn them The vices typically ascribed to by the civilized. They're lazy. They tend to get drunk. They quarrel. They gamble. In several respects Tacitus, are true of later German Burgundian Code, for example. And that he does not particular moralistic purpose. Two of these things The comitatus is the important his entourage, but his military entourage, his armed men. Not just bodyguards, but members would be the closest simile. People who are loyal to their certain amount of autonomy. They're not just sort of paid, They are his followers. An anachronistic word would because it's not used His military followers. Armed military followers, Tacitus describes the feud. Feud between clans. Feuds are generally without a strong central generous definitions A generous definition of kinship your second cousin is, maybe third cousin twice removed. And that cousin is going to his or her interests as well. You might expect your children you probably don't expect your to do much for you. So in terms of vengeance, which other words, I am protected by kills me, my clan will take In terms of protection and related to a feud and to keeping that doesn't have a very One way of avoiding feuds that compensation. And this compensation is what appears in the Burgundian Wergeld is the money paid in killing someone. I killed your brother. We have a drunken brawl. I don't like the way he And I kill him. I'm sorry, but that's just What are you going Are you going to kill me? Are you going to kill Or maybe you'll accept what kind of guy he was. Was he a silversmith? In which case I'm going huge amount of money. Or was he just some guy? Some random guy, random Or free Burgundian? Or freed, formerly slave? All of these are tariffs. They're sliding scales Tacitus mentions this. So we're looking at the other barbarian law codes, for functioned. But of course, it's a society in the Roman Empire. It looks like before they in little villages. They cultivated grain, but they They're skilled at They also supplemented their and warfare. Opportunistic warfare. Ties of kinship are When we're talking about a clan, we're talking about maybe And we'll see this again. We'll see this with the desert, for example. Within the clan you're Not supposed to. Above the clan level confederation or tribe. And this is where things get don't really know how one clan part of something larger. That is, we know that the Romans defeated them at Adrianople &quot;Oh, my gosh. Here I am. Adrianople. The Visigoths are winning. What am I going to do?&quot; But who are the Visigoths? One theory is that they're just together in contact with the the Roman Empire calls It gives them a name and called fictive kinship. From a common ancestor. They invent the notion that they and one ancestor. This process of sort of called &quot;ethnogenesis.&quot; of an ethnicity. Rather than some kind of confirm with DNA, e.g.-- all Visigoths have some sort of These people are not really common ancestor. And this question of who forms important as a real thing. For example, American There are some whose claims to They have treaties with They've had reservations But now with the inducements status, the ability to have there are petitions for tribes And here the question Ethnic identification becomes A more sinister and much more ethnogenesis is precisely the as the origins of the Germans. It's no accident that in the twentieth century, culminating the idea of the Germans as a a common Aryan- with a &quot;y&quot;- in the sense that Tacitus polemical idea. A fighting idea. An invented idea Just because something is false, lack historical importance. So the idea of ethnogenesis, called the &quot;Visigoths&quot;, approaching who they are. On the other hand, there's not they're doing this. There's not a whole lot of developing this notion Much of the evidence, evidence, for that is Roman. A lot of this ethnogenesis contact with the Romans. Certainly peoples who come in more civilized than they are, peoples who have writing, who extensive trade and The so-called barbarian peoples define themselves against Hence, among other things, many Arian, with an &quot;i.&quot; They use of their identity. So they have come into the time, they come into the empire as refugees, as federati. Federati, that is to say armies They are supported by a system hospitality. Hospitality meaning that they're Romans and they share in the That's how the Romans They don't pay them cash. They don't pay them They pay them in a portion So you owe a reasonably powerful enough senator You settle some friendly troops on your land. And you give them hospitality, the tax revenue that you're Or maybe one third of just your regular old private revenues. This is a kind of accommodation It's accommodation that costs of ways that the Roman elite these invaders. Collaborate with them. So the Roman aristocratic land leaders come to various kinds Now, the accommodation differs speaking of. And now we come to the point barbarian kingdoms. I've given you two maps, one people who are not This one. The one with the arrows. Yale University is home to one time, Walter Goffart. And I can't believe that I'm people like Wickham and Goffart going to be widely available, admiration to him, great early certainly run rings around me. He's retired. He taught at the University And among his many works is one the notion of having invaders This whole idea, like they've they are; they come See up where what is now A lot of these histories, or say they came from Skandia. And you can still read in not Visigoths came from Skandia. And then they went here, and they're migrating all round. And you have little arrows You're not supposed I'm not sure what you're substitute. And as always with historically things, once you get rid of the kind of helpless if you're So I'm asking you to look at take it seriously. I'm asking you to memorize to tell anybody. Once they enter the Empire then make sense. We know that the Visigoths were time of the battle of [correction: 378] We know that they sacked We know that they go down to granaries of North Africa. We know they discover, &quot;OMG, I they come up the other They settle in southern They're kicked out of southern for the most part. And they settle in Spain, where Four weeks from now, I think. So the arrows are not completely that's why I've given And it's hard to tell which so hence map two. Map two, a lot calmer. This is the situation in 506. Why 506? Because in that year the Franks, following more closely, the Visigoths and start pushing them So this is a map, I guess, You see the Visigoths in northeastern Spain with of in between them. So this is the situation There's no more Roman Empire fictitious Roman Empire of the varying degrees-- well, not all of them, most of of suzerainty of You'll read about Clovis, King of the 6th century, who gets emperor Anastasius in A letter of appointment, some according to Gregory of Tours, title of consul And he is He dons these robes. He scatters coins just like But is he obeying the Did the emperor Anastasius start Or have any kind of No. This is really just symbolic. We will talk about the Eastern empire and the to change in the sixth century off its opponents and becomes much as possible of the In the year 500, the most would've been the Ostrogoths Italy, which is the most Roman, the most intact economically and Roman Empire of the West. The Ostrogoths had if you look at the arrows, they Crimean area, around They came into the Balkans. They tried to attack fifth century, and they And they were encouraged to Byzantine emperor to get rid leader whose takeover of Italy understood to be the end of the The Ostrogoths had an impressive ruler named And they ruled from Ravenna, the northeastern Italy. And the tomb of Theodoric can Very impressive monument. Roman education survived It would reach its last mentioned one of them last Cassiodorus. These are two key figures of classical learning. Boethuis, not perhaps literally the west who knew Greek, but tried to make Greek knowledge read in Latin. He conceived the project of Aristotle into Latin. He started by doing a kind Like a lot of great projects, In fact, this one barely got off accused by Theodoric of Empire, the Eastern Roman He was imprisoned for a year. In prison he wrote one of the philosophy, of why we are The Consolation of Philosophy. And then he was executed. Cassiodorus lived So one of the differences the last gasp of Roman culture relative longevity. They're both figures of Boethius dies in the 530s, Cassiodorus also conceives of a is more oriented towards And Cassiodorus in some way is transmitter to us, of the idea Cassiodorus is a religious Boethius is a Christian and he The Consolation of Philosophy, stoical work, has very little Cassiodorus, on the other hand, the idea that monks should That the preserve of culture, refuge and is protected in monasteries. This seems so self-evident Because if there's one thing it's guys hunched over and preservation of learning. But, in fact, monasteries anti-intellectual institutions spend a lot of time copying, let alone thinking. You're supposed to You're supposed to You're supposed to fast It's Cassiodorus who conceives learned project. The liberal arts means here immediately practically illuminate the person seeking And what kind of knowledge is a 6th century A.D.? They're seeking after knowledge of the divine. Why not just read the Bible? I'm sure many of you have read The Bible is not an immediately in terms of its view of the of mysteries. It's full of obscurities. It's a strange work that explication. Or to celebrate divine services, requires a certain kind To know when Easter is. To know the phases To know what day it is. These monks, or just anybody out just look at their phone and There's a need for some involves abstract concepts movements of the planets. This is what the liberal arts preserved in the Ostrogothic But the fate of Boethius shows barbarian patronage On the one hand, the Ostrogoths civilized as these groups get. On the other hand, of course, On the third hand, you didn't execute people. After all, Seneca was forced So the fate of intellectuals necessarily so much better than in the barbarian kingdoms. The thing about the kingdoms is they're Seneca's a great man. It's too bad that he died. We could have had more works. But there were lots of There were lots of other Boethuis we can say-- Boethius and Cassiodorus, maybe, people in the sixth century, access to, what they read, And that is scary. If you can say that Isidore of the seventh century. Or Bede and Alcuin are of the eighth century. It's not just a compliment If you're rated like the in the United States, that's a But presumably, there are 200 And behind them there very good tennis players. But what if you were the number the country, and there No number four through Tennis would be an It would mean a lot, but tennis anymore? I don't know enough about medieval game that only five I could be the fourth ranked. But here we're not talking important though they are. We're talking about the fundamental aspects of Theodoric. Theodoric is a great ruler, but typical of many of these hold his minority together. The thing that made Italy important, the biggest prize Roman population, its Roman its cities. But that also meant that the proportion of the total He needs to hold them together, mollify the Romans. So it's a dangerous place Odoacer had already It's too valuable to And indeed after Theodoric thereafter the Byzantine Empire, Empire, would invade Italy and conquering it in a twenty Now if you look at the map Africa, you'll see we've got Tunisia and eastern Algeria. And then Moorish kingdom Ignore Roman Empire. I don't know what they're Moorish kingdoms, what We don't really know who these They're not invaders. They're desert peoples who have formerly the Roman Empire, and The Vandals were less Ostrogoths. They were more fiercely Arian. They persecuted the elite including the Roman bishops. But they were very They had a navy. They were able to plunder times in the 5th century. But they were beleaguered by words native peoples of the And so by 506, their They were also a minority in part of the Roman Empire. And they tended to fight They had internecine feuds. And so we're talking about of these barbarian kingdoms. Internal fighting. Alien religious beliefs, And once they've done the to start making the economy The Vandals would be driven obliterated actually, by the late 520s, early 530s. Now I'm not going to go through but I want to give you some Go up to the British Isles. You'll see it says British kingdoms whose remnants would And then the Anglo-Saxon invaders who come from beginning in the 440s. This is the first place Here it looks more like a The invaders come and the Romans because they're afraid that Gaul And this is an island where the impact, was less. There isn't a large Roman small German minority. There is a Celtic majority that or that seeks refuge in these as they're called on the We don't know very much about this time because more than Ostrogothic Italy, the There's very little Latin We have very little knowledge So this is at one extreme Barbarization verses We're going to be talking about we're going to talk a little bit closing today. But this leaves really important groups the Visigoths. The Visigoths, the people who their invasions of the Balkans In 506 they control much of particularly, and are trickling We will be following, in reading tremendous success of the Franks And so the Visigoths What about the Burgundians? You've read the Burgundian anything strike you about it? Spencer? Spencer: Mainly it focused on classes and emphasized the free Burgundians versus Romans, PROFESSOR: Very status oriented. STUDENT: I didn't realize so much hair pulling. PROFESSOR: Yeah, why? What's that all about? Yeah? STUDENT: Well, it talked about about how long hair became PROFESSOR: Yes. So the question was, what is It's a status symbol. We'll see that the Merovingian specially long hair. And when they're finally deposed that hair is cut. Now of course, all their hair monasteries. And monks are what's called completely bald, they at Like many barbarian, so-called many people period, they're of prestige, symbols. The Burgundian Code is drawn It's drawn up in different The Burgundians were closer the Ostrogoths in degree They're a group that wants to be by the Romans. They write their own law code in for example. They also write a sort of law This law code is aware of Burgundians. And if each has a different kind settle a problem that arises communities? The Burgundian law lot of Roman influence. For example, in chapter eighteen title &quot;Of things that happen by seem very dramatic. If any animal by chance or any man, we order that among of blame be removed This is an interesting If my dog bites you and you Is your brother going That's what the Burgundian But here they say if it's an can't kill me. This is the difference between Those of you who have the good are going to study this A tort is a so-called civil A crime is where I kill A tort is I leave a roller skate trip and die. I'm not going to be considered who poisoned you, but shouldn't be there. And of course this is For example, I've learned, experience, but from neighbors a tree in my yard falls on your Your insurance is going I'm really sorry about But if you warned me, &quot;I don't tree in your yard. It's leaning over like this. I'm afraid in the next storm house,&quot; and I don't do understanding is that I'm This was a present and It was an obvious threat, and attention to it. And I didn't do anything. So next time it storms and your somebody else's tree, just as next door and say, you know, I tree on your property. You better do something. These are real legal And they are handled in here On the other hand, there It's OK to practice vengeance. But there are some For example, if I kill you, your but they can't just This is sort of clan-directed vengeance. There's a lot of talk about victims. How much you pay. Whether you grab them Whether you cut off Whether they were free or slave. skilled artisan or a serf. I love title ten. &quot;If anyone kills a slave, house servant or messenger, let But 200 solidi if the slave is solidi for a carpenter, If you cut off someone's arm, Wergeld is like murder. Their murder value. So I have a murder value Cut off an arm, you've got This seems pretty crude, How does it strike you? Yes? STUDENT: Yeah, it does seem solution to something that could a civil war. PROFESSOR: It is a And what about victims' In the Western legal tradition, it's a crime against the peace, the perpetrator. Only relatively recently has rights, victims' compensation, Which is like a reversion back really injures not the state or we all take for granted, individual who is affected. But what makes it seem specificity of the offenses. If you look at the Connecticut so precise about hair pulling. If anyone seizes a freeman by if he's seized with two Maybe that has to One arm might be instinct. I'm pulling your hair. But two hands argues of serious Or it's more humiliating. This is a culture in which and compensation for A lot of questions of In title four about theft, if either beaten or killed, Freemen, that is to say people and compensation. It's a violent society. Course all criminal codes show There's a lot of mutilation. There are a lot of assaults Compensation for assaults on women themselves, but a native maid-servant must Maid-servant, as a slave, is And then finally, it's a society according to the official law women, or men are less If a man breaks a marriage, in if he goes and runs off If a woman goes off and runs off be smothered to death. On that enlightened the Burgundian Code. And indeed we're going to leave a little while. Next week we're going to talk and why it survived and even