The universe has long captivated us with its How far out does it stretch? Where does it end, and what lies beyond the extend as far as telescopes can see? These questions are beginning to yield to and to technologies that are letting us peer cosmos but at the behavior of matter and energy Remarkably, our growing understanding of this of atoms, is now enabling us to glimpse the How large is the universe? In ancient times, most observers saw the stars home of deities. The Greeks were the first to see celestial rather than the fickle whims of the Gods. One philosopher and sky-watcher named Anaxagorus found on Earth and therefore, might have even Those early astronomers built the foundations But they would be shocked to see the discoveries The stars and planets that once harbored the a vast scaffolding of matter and energy that Just how far began to emerge in the 1920s. Working at the huge new 100-inch Hooker Telescope Wilson, astronomer Edwin Hubble, along with the light of fuzzy patches of sky known then They showed that these were actually distant Hubble and Humason discovered that most of The farther out they looked, the faster these This fact, now known as Hubble's law, suggests matter in all these galaxies was together Everything that astronomers saw in their increasingly a singular beginning, now called the Big Bang. That the universe could expand had been predicted Einstein himself didn't believe it until Einstein's general theory of relativity because space itself is expanding. So when a photon gets blasted out from a distant that is getting larger and larger, increasing So, how large the cosmos has gotten since growing, in addition to its expansion rate. Recent precision measurements gathered by have brought a consensus, that the universe In that time a beam of light would have traveled kilometers. But taking into account the expansion of the by the Hubble space telescope are actually direction and almost 92 billion light years So is that the size of the universe? It's not, according to a dramatic new theory It holds that our 92 billion light-year patch The theory is based on the discovery that of space in the form of particles of opposite Back in the 1980s, the physicist Alan Guth vacuum of space had suddenly tipped into a to literally "inflate." The universe went from atomic size to cosmological As a result, according to Guth's calculation, some ten billion trillion times the size of That's a ten followed by 24 zeroes. Put another way, the whole universe is to universe is - to an atom. The incredible fury of cosmic inflation helps the universe. But to succeed, the theory must also account around us, all those stars and galaxies and Scientists are now attempting to piece together in its earliest moments by generating what At the Brookhaven National Lab in New York directions down tunnels almost two and a half When these atoms reach velocities just short a violent collision. A fireball erupts, reaching a temperature As far as we know, the last time anything of a second after its birth. What interests the scientists is the splatter quarks and gluons that theory says gave rise In initial tests, this quark-gluon plasma viscosity or resistance to flow. Scientists call it a perfect liquid. To grasp its importance, we go back to those spawned the big bang. The thinking is that those fields contained size during inflation. In the ultra-dense quark-gluon mix, these ripples. As the universe evolved, these ripples gave Amazingly, the imprint of those primordial discovered accidentally back in the 1960s. Working for the Bell Telephone Company, physicists giant horn-shaped antenna. But wherever they pointed, the contraption portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. That noise turned out to match a prediction big bang, the universe was filled with a cloud As the universe cooled, the cloud dissipated. Light then shone through Over time the spectral signature of this light and cooled, to what Penzias and Wilson detected. What they'd heard was the echo of the Big This image shows the smooth contours of the Scientists would have to look closer to find The Space Shuttle Discovery lifted the Hubble in one of the most important scientific milestones Another launch, arguably just as important, The Cosmic Observation Background Explorer, look at the microwave radiation discovered The results came out two and a half years The light of the early universe contained In this image was nothing less than the origin large scale, but with significant clumps from stars, and galaxies. With this cosmic template in hand, astronomers dimensions of the universe evolved over time. In an age of computer controlled telescopes now launch huge international collaborations of the universe in three dimensions. At Apache Point in New Mexico, the Sloan Digital astronomy. A series of steel plates are drilled with in the night sky. After plugging fiber optic sensors into the of galaxies per night. From that light the astronomers calculate Another survey is named the 2 Micron All Sky light its detectors are tuned to capture. In this image, the 2Mass data covers a region The local group of galaxies, including the This is our intergalactic neighborhood. Jump further out to a region about 200 million Our location is linked to the densely packed city. Stepping out to a region over 320 million of our local region of the universe. Galaxies line up in walls and arcs. Beyond them are sparsely-populated voids, Moving out with the data, this region is over Then almost two billion. 3.2 billion. And finally out to a region 6.5 billion light In the middle of it all, our galaxy, so immense a speck. The 2mass study, the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, our maps to a quarter of the way back to the They have laid out a grand cosmic roadmap. COBE's successor, the Wilkinson Microwave to scan the early universe for the fine-scale WMAP traveled beyond any interference from Earth and the Sun. There, for two years, its detectors took in This is what WMAP saw: a pattern consistent in the universe at large. Scientists are poring over the WMAP data for One group, for example, looked for repeating waves that ricocheted through the hot gas They saw none, which implies that the universe waves could not cross it. Then they did the math and reported that the of 78 billion light years. So what is its maximum size, and what's We will never know for sure what lies beyond up some surprising hints in the universe they To ancient observers, the universe was made Air, Fire, and a fifth, Quintessence, or space. Aristotle believed the stars, unchanging and Today, we are finding that space, in fact, Astronomers have calculated the gravitational galaxy or galaxies as they orbit a cluster They have found that there is simply nowhere structures together. The missing ingredient, its identity still In supercomputer simulations of cosmic evolution, tug needed to form the web pattern of filaments in the universe at large. But something else appears to be happening Astronomers have been making refined measurements of distance marker. They wanted to know if gravity was slowing The markers they used, type 1A supernovae, throughout the universe. By measuring changes in the brightness of distances, the researchers can spot changes To their surprise, the data showed that the it's actually accelerating outward! The culprit is thought to be energy welling occurred in the early moments of the Big Bang, By emerging in minute quantities everywhere, universe. Over time, this so-called "Dark Energy" of all the matter and energy in the universe. With data like this pointing to an underlying are thinking of the cosmos in far broader There is a version of inflationary theory, of many universes, that may co-exist side Like bubbles, they are continually rising Just 500 years ago, in Galileo's time, many of lights centered on the Earth. The invention of the telescope revealed stars of galaxies, and beyond them, vast walls and Newer ideas about the size of the universe by extending these structures far, far beyond Do these discoveries push us, on our tiny smaller corner of Creation? Or does our ability to comprehend and imagine our importance in the grand scheme of things?