Lily Ebert passed away at the age of 100. She would have turned 101 in December. The Hungarian-born Holocaust survivor became known in Hungary The Heti Naplo produced four films about her story. In our next film, you will see excerpts which have never been shown to you before. Thank you Peter, that you did and actually started taking these beautiful pictures for us. These will remain a beautiful even for those times But the pictures will still be there. A few months ago told me this That was the last time I saw her. I wasn't there to shoot, I didn't have I was just a tourist. But I really wanted to visit Lily. Lately, fate has often led me to the British capital. Each time I visited her. Before our last meeting, the family told me She doesn't speak much. I said, &quot;It's okay, And imagine, as soon as Lily heard it was like she was transformed, Youth has already passed. But Aunt Lily looks very good. Thank you. I only started recording on my phone how happy Lily is Since she hadn't seen me I chose her a very fragrant flower bouquet. During our first meeting, How many years has it been? Well, it's almost three. It's terrible how quickly time passes. Whenever she saw me, She wanted to know It's the most beautiful Believe me or not, really is. It's a beautiful country. We just have to keep our eyes open. To me, she was a bit like I was not alone in this. She was the great-grandmother More than two million people. But life is so short. Soon, our long lives Lily Ebert's story was about a girl born in 1923. A girl who was born and she was very proud of that. If I were to take you to Hungary, do you know where I would take you? To the cemetery. And I would show you the gravestones. Hundreds of years old gravestones from my family. How many people are buried there? So we lived there. That was our life, that was everything. We were more Hungarian Lily was 20 years old were deported to Auschwitz Upon arriving at the concentration camp, known as the Angel of Death, Her mother, Berta and her brother This was the last time Lily saw them. Dr. Mengele sent Lily and her sisters, Despite the inhumane conditions, just like this golden medallion. After the war, Lily began a new life My father died luckily before the war, but my mother, my brother Why? They didn't do anything wrong. I couldn't even talk to my children. It was so painful, that I wasn't allowed But my kids saw it. What did they do to us? They didn't treat us as people. Our name was numbers. We didn't have names. These numbers, For humans... only numbers. In this four-part report series, you didn't just hear but through Lily and her wonderful also about love, selfless care The world wouldn't have known Lily Ebert's story who brought his great-grandmother They became known worldwide. How often do you Do you think in Hungarian or English? They say you can find it out And that is eventually Hungarian. And I think, if I count, That's my mother tongue. I learned it, it was my language. My children too, all of them. Even though they weren't born in Hungary, I spoke Hungarian with No Heti Naplo film could be made without Lily When we first met in 2021, But Lily seemed to sense I can only say one thing. Learn, let's learn Where we live, no matter which part, If the world wants to exist and go on, then we must learn how to live Because what difference does it make It doesn't matter. We are all people We brought children into the world, And since Lily talked about everlasting images I'll show you some pictures For example, the one we took In 2022, Lily received the Knight's Cross of the Order of Merit. Ambassador Ferenc Kumin said also played a major role The following picture is a loud one. At the age of 98, Lily recited &lt;i&gt;&quot;Pull on gypsy, pull it harder!&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I feel like dancing.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I dance my money away, But there was someone in the family I'm thinking of Lily's brother Bela, The 13-year-old Bela, even had his birth certificate destroyed. He only lived on in Lily's memories. However, thanks to the Heti Naplo report series, a couple from an antique shop in Bonyhad, Zsolt and Erika, found The great-grandson and granddaughter received On the yellowed pages, they saw Bela's and the family's seal too. Look, there's his name in Hebrew. Engelman. Right? Yes. Yeah, it says Bencion Engelman. Lily was speechless on her hospital bed when she held the memory And what a beautiful picture it was. Meeting of generations on it. And, of course, I won't forget I had never been to such a large family gathering. After the war, Lily built a large family. She had 3 children, 10 grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. She was most proud of her family. {\an8}This was how she showed {\an8}On her 100th birthday, Lily spoke It would be so wonderful if, once and for all, I don't wish for anything else, only that we can learn in peace and happiness. And no one is better than anyone else. We just think differently. That's the whole difference. Lily Ebert was laid to rest in Jerusalem. This is the first report where I can no longer send So now I speak to her family, to whom I would like to express my gratitude Jews, instead of flowers, because they don't wither. The stones symbolize I learned this from Lily Ebert, In the Heti Naplo, Peter Berecz remembered who passed away at the age of 100. On behalf of the entire Heti Naplo editorial team, we would like to express our