So I actually dropped out of high school and I lived in this place called the tenderloin, But I didn't really My decision was, this is my passion. It was actually more than a passion. I used to believe the smartest people, They went to Harvard, they went That's actually not true. And oftentimes when we've hired those and we've been wrong. The right people that are thinking operating at the right speed is what makes My name is Samir Vasavada. So Vise does three things. We help advisors build We help them manage those portfolios, We're technology enables So it's funny because I've looked back My like the drivers, like the things was always like building something And then the iPhone had come out. I had seen Steve Jobs and I had and I had just been inspired by tech. And it's funny because I come My parents were Indian immigrants. The concept of being a builder, was kind of a foreign concept, and the way I actually started with this was pretty interesting, pretty random. I had met my co-founder My parents had sent us and we had met because our dorm rooms And when we finished the program, we have all this time on our hands. School is not too difficult. And apps at the time were really, Every small business wanted an app So we learned how to program. and then my co-founder got a research opportunity at a notable university And we decided, What if you could type in your app idea into a platform and we could build you an iPhone app in 30s? And that was our first startup. It turned out to be too much suited for two 13-14 year olds. But one of the guys who was mentoring us and he said, you guys know so much You should consult with large investment banks because large investment banks want to learn about AI and machine learning for investment decisions and efficiency decisions within their firms. So we started consulting with a lot of the and we were charging a lot of money which was a great, great side income for that age. And as we were consulting we realized that the wealth and asset management space For a lot of these institutions. But financial advisors where money management gurus, and they didn't necessarily have with investment management. So we saw an opportunity. What if we build technology for these large investment institutions? We built our first prototype at 15, and the goal was to sell it to big financial institutions. Now, we didn't know how hard And Jamie Dimon was speaking There was a local school field trip, down to to go see Jamie Dimon speak. And Jamie got off stage What JP Morgan be interested to automate their investment workloads And he basically said to us, no, lots of investment workflows. But you should look at because what's happening is a lot and they're going independent. And you guys could provide the tech, So we discovered this massive market And Vise could be the first company So I actually dropped out of high school, after partially through 11th grade, and I moved and I lived in this place called the tenderloin, But like, I didn't really My decision was this is my passion. It was actually more than a passion. Oftentimes when people say to follow your passion. You know, the actual risk you're taking because you're taking the risk of, if I don't actually follow my passion? I think it gets really challenging When you have a family and you have kids and responsibilities, and that's when most earlier on in their lives. And when you're doing at a young age, because, like you have the time I'm 16, 17, 18 years old. Now is the time in my life I have a safety net to fall back on. So the question is, And oftentimes you just There are over 400,000 investment Clients expect personalized portfolios but instead are getting dumped into Vise AI is an artificial intelligence so they can automate When we started, I had cold called cold, between the ages of 16 and 19, and no one while I was living in the Bay area, sleeping on floors. My co-founder actually decided to go which could have destroyed our business, but I actually moved onto Renick's dorm room floor and I said, And he said, okay, to drop out. His parents had said, if you want you need to raise $1 million. So we decided we're going to go out We don't know who's going to give us And it's funny because we One of the people we'd cold called was Jim and I found his number online somehow. And I'd called him and I'd said, Jim, But I was so nervous And then I called him back for like ten minutes and said, And ironically, a couple of years later, But when we were in this process, bumps and people just kept rejecting us. What are you kids going to be able to do Go find a real job or come back to this. And we ended up meeting these two guys, who started a company called Flatiron Health. And they said, okay, Even if the thing goes to zero, it's okay. And they gave us our first 100 K and one, we could afford to feed our employees on equity at that point in time. And two, it was enough momentum for us And then we ended up meeting Founders Fund and we raised $2 million, And Rounick had dropped out, and we had started the company officially. The way I think about it is there's and you have individual failures, but you never learn from your successes. You always learn from your failures. So our goal is to have So before we had a launch ready product something like 5 to 7 times. So we'd gone from a full platform build And I think my one big lesson there's a Reid Hoffman quote you should be We were always embarrassed but we never actually launched it. We just kept scrubbing it and restarting. If I had to redo it all over again, I would have given it to users, embarrassed about the product. Because you're going to learn, right? And even if something is imperfect, will continue your iteration cycle So a lot of my early days, I would sit in financial advisors offices product or watch them use other product. And then it builds a really strong mental they think, how do they make decisions, So a lot of my learnings came or doing the work with them. And that best way to learn YC has this quote always be talking and it couldn't be more true As you grow, the hard thing is, as you grow you have salespeople, you have product to the customer on your behalf. And that's actually the wrong thing You want to always be a multi-billion dollar company because the more time you spend with your The better your story gets, There is nothing more important Actually make it a key part of my week. How much time did I spend or existing customers Because the amount of learnings you get There is a belief in Silicon Valley builds businesses faster, That's not true. The right people that are thinking operating at the right speed, is what And the problem when you have a lot because you have more people that are managing more problems that you're managing with more people. So we actually realize having less people would actually lead to better results. Because what you realize as a company drive the top 80% of results, so why do you want the other 80%? You want only the top performers at the top performers are properly incentivized, the resources they need to be successful. I used to believe the smartest people, they went to Harvard, they went to Yale, That's actually not true. And oftentimes when we've hired those and we've been wrong. We wanted everyone to think day one employees that were building, And what happened was Vise had to $1 billion company in 18 months. It was record fast timing. It was the youngest person in history And what happened was we started We recruited people that were here They were mercenaries. They wanted to join Vise and expected it to have to solve problems, when in reality and we needed to do a major shift. We had built the wrong culture, and we had to make hard decisions to change the mental model internally to, We are a company that is figuring it out. That's going to win we're all thinkers, and we're all hustling in the early days of the company. The way to actually think about talent is to think about, like a framework I call Really focusing on qualities. Is this person willing to work Are they someone who can learn? Are they open to taking feedback? Are they motivated? At Vise, we have three core values burn the boats, and 1% better every day. Number one, They're all in on the mission. They're willing to go through any walls, go through any challenges They're truly kind of they have Two, 1% better every day. You're 1% better every day. You're far, far better And it's those little changes you make It's not about the big change. It's about the little changes and those compounds as a result of those learnings. And the last and probably one of the most making the customer truly embedded Everyone in every decision is thinking how are we going to drive more value putting the customer ahead of everyone, I don't recommend starting unless it is your true driving passion. I think a lot of people think, wow, like it's the hot thing to be doing and You should do the thing that you're excited about. I think I've had times and I was feeling kind of lonely and and I was like, feeding for scraps, basically. I would like go to the Whole Foods I had no money and I needed food. And I think that was like some But it was also really important and two, it built this kind of sense of that if I didn't figure it out, I was kind of screwed Like it was like a burn But if you truly love it and it's I would say it's a no brainer opportunity It's a no brainer opportunity and you'll learn so much more in the And it's important to know And that's just kind of And it's important to just constantly better, and your job is just to move to And as long as you don't quit, as long as I think my vision is to build entirely powered by technology. How do we transform this legacy archaic And I think that we have and I think it's going to take a while, As long as you keep going, Right?