They came to redefine Whether it was David or Gary Cherone leading the band, each brought a special The career of Van Halen was as tumultuous as it was lucrative, The band received multiple awards as well as going platinum 13 times. Van Halen is a band as as they are controversy. And their ever-rotating meant that their style and presentation were ever changing as well. With over 56 million albums Van Halen is one of the Through all the trials and their fame and influence the very definition of This is the &quot;Mammoth Legacy of Van Halen.&quot; The Van Halen brothers, Alex and Eddie, were born in Amsterdam in 1953 and 1955, moving to Pasadena, California in 1963. - And where you met, something like that? - Well, we were all going and living in a generally None of us are from California, that's how come we don't We just wanted to get discovered and LA is a good place to do it. You know, there's a lotta a lot of everything - The primary focus of Van the musicianship of Eddie Van Halen. He and his brother Alex, I worked with in Los Angeles knew the Van Halens and said they were great people. Went to high school with the The brothers were shown to be proficient in music with both learning Eddie learned to play piano by However, when both learned drums, they became frustrated with each other. - Bizarrely, Eddie, the was drawn to the drums and that powered the band forward, I was once backstage at and I got to talking and he said, &quot;We're this band Van Halen.&quot; I said, &quot;Oh, I've heard of you. The first album's not out yet.&quot; So, I had this great chat &quot;No, actually I started and my brother-&quot; I said, &quot;Your brother's as a guitar player.&quot; He says, &quot;My brother And I said, &quot;What happened there?&quot; And here's the Van Halen brother's story of how Eddie got on guitar. So, Alex told me backstage at the Starwood this wonderful story. He said, &quot;Eddie, you Alex would go out, he says, &quot;My was stuck at home and my banging on the drums.&quot; So, Eddie would go in the and pick up the guitar.&quot; He'd practice guitar scales, which I thought was fascinating. And I said, &quot;Well, how did you find out that it was time to swap instruments?&quot; And Alex Van Halen told me, with the high school kids one night and my little brother had sat on the bed. He was sitting on the bed And by the time I got home, my younger brother knew to &quot;Crossroads&quot; in order,&quot; from the very famous Cream recording of the song &quot;Crossroads,&quot; &quot;in order and how to play the song.&quot; And he said, &quot;That was we've gotta switch instruments. This is just ridiculous, he's and better on the guitar. And now he can play the two Clapton solos And he said, &quot;That was it. We And the rock world is much better for it. - So, you have to remember, and Ed played drums. And to make a long story short- - He got better, - But the moment he picked up the guitar, it didn't take a genius to figure out that he had a connection with it. - It was just kind of Just like drumming for him. And I'm very grateful to - I think you if you take that's when it becomes a problem. - Yeah. By 1964, the brothers as a band with their friend Mark Stone, calling themselves Mammoth. - Van Halen initially by playing everywhere. 'Cause one thing about Van Halen is they never took themselves They played their gigs with a smile. And Van Halen, if you look they're grinning a lot, they're having times of their lives a lot. It's not superficial to them, but they're have a wonderful time. But how they really, is a tried and true method, They played everywhere and anywhere When renting a sound who at the time was in his own small band, the brothers were so taken by his charisma and energy that they offered him to join the band as the lead singer. Later adding college friend in a guitar and bass role. By 1973, they had officially changed their name to Van Halen, and for the next three years, the band played throughout and Los Angeles in clubs and hotel bars. Eddie especially became and groundbreaking After seeing the band Kiss's Gene Simmons financed a demo recording session for Van Halen. - So, I offered to fly them to New York to Electric Lady Studios which I did, 15 songs, and the performance pretty and the second album. Which later to Warner Brothers Records. - They were signed to me exclusively, to Man of a Thousand Faces And I brought them into Bill and the rest of the band, and I said, &quot;Let's do the smart thing. Let's take a new band under our wing. This is gonna be the Nobody else believed it. So, I tore up the contract I'm a big fan, go and get 'em.&quot; Within two or three weeks they got a deal at Warner Van Halen's was released in 1978 to critical acclaim, reaching platinum within The self-titled debut Eddie's guitar playing defied conventions, giving birth to a whole Eddie Van Halen's guitar is widely considered to be due to his popularization During this era, Eddie also known as the Frankenstrat, something that Eddie would constantly use and modify for the rest of his career. With David Lee Roth's leading the charge, Van Halen they became a phenomenon. From then on, the band would for the next five years, as well as constant The fifth studio album, &quot;1984,&quot; The success of to a whole new level of fame, a song that is still getting and is widely regarded as the &quot;Jump&quot; was a song that not into a new stratosphere, from the regular guitar-centric rock that defined the band's The sonic synth riff transformed the band's sonic landscape, blending rock with pop, and introducing the band to a broader The infectious chorus and upbeat vocal performance, has made this song stand the test of time among an already impressive leaving an indelible mark on pop culture. Dance the night away Oh, come on, baby, A live wire Barely a beginner, but She's on fire 'Cause dancing gets her higher than anything else she knows Following the 1984 tour, and cracks were beginning to show. - There was a slight dichotomy in the band once the band was up and running. But Eddie wanted to push the music into, expand the palette direction. He didn't want just be a guitar hero and David Lee Roth always had catchy songs, and so, that album came out and &quot;Jump&quot; was this huge and the bad news is you the yin and the yang of Eddie Van Halen wanting to push the music and David Lee Roth, who David Lee Roth is the kind of guy that if he has to stand on his head to entertain the audience He is an entertainer with a capital E. So, you have the split By the end of Roth decided to quit the band, with members giving different Despite Roth's departure though, the foundation built by him just by him leaving. And so, despite lacking a lead singer, Van Halen would continue with someone new leading the group. - Come the late 1980s, the of the guys in Van Halen Michael Anthony had an and became sober in 1987. So Michael Anthony, the great bass player, because he was great sacked or not he was a great bass - When Dave quit the were just pretty devastated, really. We were just sitting I mean, here we'd worked with the guy for 11 years, so to speak, walked, took off. David's departure didn't have a lead vocalist. As the world waited for the the band invited numerous including Patti Smith of Scandal and Daryl Hall of Hall and Oates. Ultimately, though it was Sammy Hagar, who would breathe new life into the band. Eddie was introduced he agreed to become the band's new lead. This marked a whole proving the band could yet still maintain popularity. - Sammy Hagar came in and they had a whole 'nother Hagar had been in his own acts, and he'd been the lead singer of Montrose with Ronnie Montrose, They hadn't done that well, Sammy Hagar played good guitar as well. You know, David Lee Roth was a singer and did acrobatics and high kicks that were gymnastic status. Sammy Hagar was more of a musician, and I was impressed to see back and forth, and Hagar's an integral part of the sound. They didn't have that with David Lee Roth. - Well, we had a toothache and finally went to the and now we've got a crown Sammy brought another level Though he lacked the flamboyant and boisterous acrobatic he instead brought his guitar playing and powerful vocal differentiating the two leads and eras with fans arguing to this However, even though Roth the animosity between him including the new lead Sammy Hagar, bled throughout the news at the time, with the two parties taking - I shed a tear and said, we're having a career difference here. We're having a musical difference and we're gonna go our own ways.&quot; And we cried and we hugged and we split, and two weeks later, I'm what an asshole I am. And how poor little Eddie was forced to spend the last 12 years National Enquirer or something. And here comes his wife, And on and on and on. So, I stayed quiet for In 1986, Van &quot;5150&quot; was recorded in a studio When released, becoming the band's first number one album on the Billboard charts, proving that Hagar could carry the band. - All right, all right. We're gonna win. - The first time we got together was like, we've been together for years. It was incredible. You know, I don't mean to but it's like there's no more You know, it's like just, After releasing &quot;OU812&quot; in 1988, &quot;For Unlawful Carnal Knowledge&quot; in 1991, and &quot;Balance&quot; in 1995, and 10th albums continued Winning a Grammy in 1992 for best hard rock performance, as well as continuing to Too much temptation Enough to kill a generation Space station, starvation, This ain't groovin', this ain't funky It's on my back but Gimme some of that big, fat money That's what I want Big fat money However, tension and the Van Halen brothers when leading to Hagar ultimately leaving the band again to carry Van Halen. - I was called by Eddie on Eddie just goes, &quot;You know, you never do anything I ask you to do.&quot; And I'm going, &quot;Well, yeah, I do.&quot; I mean, you know, it's there really wasn't a problem like this in our whole 11 years of creativity. And he said, &quot;But you never And I got so frustrated, and we're working with him and And he goes, &quot;And you've you might as well just go Quote, unquote, exactly that. And I went, &quot;Wow!&quot; - Sammy Hagar leaving Van though the band were confident and continuing the band's success. - I gotta tell you, when we loved them, they were But just like in any relationship, sometimes things just go sour. And it's that simple, you know. - They're both very talented and we had a lot of great times together, and I respect them both on a musical level. After a short stint with recording two new songs for the band, he was again, asked to leave the band after the rest of the group wasn't happy with his antics on camera during Well, what that changed the nature - It wasn't- which for one, I thought was embarrassing. - And disrespectful to Beck. as he's trying to thank people with his acceptance speech, whatever. Dave's behind him doing And it's like, God, I don't know. To me it was embarrassing, where he basically spit in my face. Van Halen's next lead singer the former front man to - It's odd that bands like Van Halen, who have this great success, that there's not more of a magnetic pull to stay at the center. It's almost like they've if you'll let me use this metaphor. They're pushing guys away. You know, Michael Anthony's and they have Wolfgang, come in on bass. It's sad. David Lee Roth, dear, dear he splits and goes. Sammy Hagar comes in and he's He goes. To record &quot;Van Halen III,&quot; of the albums by the way, they came in, they got a Cherone, he was the lead singer Gary Cherone comes in and he And he did the album &quot;Van Halen III.&quot; It was a bit experimental Perhaps weighted more previously expressed and less just a 4/4 rock and roll band, and getting away from some of and expanding the palette a little bit. of Van Halen's entire career. Though the Gary Cherone era it's still worth praise to reinvent themselves for a third time and create music that was on the more experimental side of things. &quot;Van Halen III&quot; stands as a testament to the willingness to - To a lot of us on the scene it's like, you've got something so beautiful going, why is there all this But then there's also the when you have strong personalities, that everybody wants their say, the argument being that and Van Halen, or Van Halen and Hagar, or Michael Anthony with that friction creates the and get the house to really burn. The ensuing tour Cherone was quickly dismissed Eddie later said that to let go of Cherone after the poor sales and concert attendance. However, unlike both Hagar and Roth, Gary left the band on good terms and stayed in contact with Van Halen. Van Halen's third lead singer leaving, and the health issues essentially left the going into the new millennium. The group that dominated and had been a powerhouse suddenly went silent. During the extended hiatus of the band, each member embarked And for fans, the hiatus as to the future of Van Halen. This combined with Eddie's led to an extended hiatus of Van Halen with no new music or official going into the new millennium. In 2000, Eddie announced with tongue cancer, which he attributed to heavy alcohol and drug After the band parted ways with Roth and Hagar toured together for their Heavyweight Champs to the surprise of most fans between the two, drawing huge crowds and attracting media attention. Ultimately though, Van Halen was still without a lead singer. In 2004, a greatest hits collection, &quot;The Best of Both Worlds&quot; was released, leading to a tour that back into the group just for the tour, after which he left back to his own band. Van Halen at Greensboro Coliseum, Reserved seat tickets are on sale now. Coliseum Box office online at tickets.com or charge by phone. Friday, June 11th, the real - Plus, it's been a while, the Greensboro Coliseum. We're gonna tell you how you can still be a part of this rock and roll event. - You know what? I wish before this because, you know, But you never know. With this band, you never know what's gonna happen. I know, you all know that right now. I'm a never-say-never kinda guy. I'm here, I'm ready to play. Sammy and I are out there, if people wanna hear it, you know, giving the fans what they want. - No, quite honestly, I after doing the 50 some I planned on taking this year off and just hanging with my and haven't done that for a long time. And then this came up and I kind of wish I I'm gonna tour from my I'm gonna kinda just go through And I'm sure Mike will be out there unless Van Halen wants to do it. I'm not being funny. If we all grew up, and and all of us can all grow up and maybe all of us do it together now. I'm down with that anytime, But let's just hope that Eddie you know, better than ever. And I think that'll make I totally encourage the thing with Dave. I think that if Van Halen has in their lives for their fans right now, it's do a reunion with Dave. They've done it with me. We've done it. Everything you can possibly do, I think the fans need a Dave reunion. And then, like I said, if we all grow up, we can all get together - Honestly, yeah. I'm waiting for him to at some point during the speech. You know? That's Dave. After being inducted into the Rock and Roll the band announced a new reunion tour featuring David Lee Roth back as front man with a controversial lineup change as Wolfgang Van Halen replaced - Heard you missed me. I came right back as fast as I could. - So, Eddie Van Halen, by and drugging too much. That's part of the problem Mainly musical difficulties differences when they And Eddie had a bad set after a gig. Remember Wolfgang joined the band at age 17, replacing Anthony. So, when you have a set to there's no doubt the I think the next day, that &quot;I've gotta get clean.&quot; So, he went through two rehab patches and the first time fell back and I think the second and struggled to stop cigarettes, which everyone tells me is murderous. But it's the story of so many bands. You're nervous to go on stage and you need something And even if you don't do that, sometimes after it's over you wanna relax, so, you start drinking and and now you can't go to sleep, so, you take something to knock you out. Then the next morning you So, Van Halen sort of of the touring rock and roll You know, you're offered all these things, free drugs and whatever free. And it is a tragedy went through the bands as Because they really should and more creative for longer It's just a shame that Van Halen, like so many bands have a legacy besides the great record and joy they brought to their public, they have a legacy of a And that's sad, 'cause that are in the band. You know, you may argue with your mom and your dad, And a band that's been 22 years, these guys The tour ultimately the most successful tour Seeing this success, the band their first, since &quot;Van in what would become their &quot;A Different Kind of and received generally - We always stayed away from television because of the sound difficulties and because we are particular to the way we've been photographed and the way that we are recorded, because we always did it ourselves. I'll give you an example. One of the reasons that so much of history looks majestic to us all the early '60s around 1963, is that all of the cameras, the famous Rolleiflex, et cetera, So, you had to hold them belt buckle high and every black and white picture all the way up through looking down through a So, you're looking up ground-to-sky angle, it makes everything, every every wartime picture look of majesty because you're looking up at it. That right there is when we go to shoot just a common video and you gotta tell somebody we're not looking for one minute edits. Who cared about Fred Astaire's face? Did you ever see it? Did you ever care? No. And neither did I. But you saw the whole body, unless you're doing low and it's a constant fight. Most television, they And you're from here up. I'm only interesting from So, we avoided television. Playing lead bass and drums kind of music if it's not digital, whoa. We got Bob Clearmountain back there, who's the producer for The the list is endless. He goes all the way who I hired to open up for Van Halen on the last tour as well. But does that answer Van Halen supported this one of which was in the later released as the group's - I've been based in Tokyo and I rode my bike to the with 43,000 of our friends. That's the closest I to productive that week. We mixed the record and let's go on the road. This is a band that has and has a history that is so colorful, you know, we stop and start. The hijinks here are like something from a fucking Lucille Ball comedy or something. Getting the band on the road about every three and a half You can set your watch at. Any sooner and it becomes, You never wanna hear that. It was like the third &quot;Weren't you just here?&quot; In 2020, following and a litany of other medical issues, Eddie Van Halen passed just 10 days after, Mark Stone Wolfgang later confirmed that Van Halen had &quot;You can't have Van Halen - One of the lovely things when you talk about Van Halen is, is before Eddie died, his recent death, everyone had a kind word, who was, you know, heartbroken, and has been eloquent in his remarks on his old bandmate Eddie Van Halen. And when Eddie embraced if you'll allow me to be because at his deathbed, Valerie Bertinelli, his that he'd subsequently And so many of his and had a chance to say goodbye. That's the good news. I only wish there had been and stuff going on. But Eddie was a drinker and One thing that some of the might wanna know is I had a friend, I have several friends who and we went out to have And eating with roadies is amazing because no stories are about they're just about what towns you went to, the size of the PA, the monitors so the audience could see the guys without the monitors blocking, And one thing I really enjoyed people that succumbed to drink or pop music in general, how sad that is. And this one guy was saying, And I said, &quot;What are you &quot;I saw one thing, as part of his shtick, he'd come out with a Jack and drink it in like two gulps, &quot;And then come on, he's at some point to do that on stage.&quot; And this roadie was there And I'm like, &quot;You what?&quot; And he says, &quot;Here it is, folks.&quot; He says, &quot;Yeah, David He had iced tea. You know, the American it's not hot British tea. It's iced tea, it's slightly chilled. He's sweating like a dog. So, he cracks the seal, which and holds it up. The audience And he's going glug, He's no more drinking you know, battery acid. It was just iced tea.&quot; And I laughed and I said, &quot;Well, no wonder he's still got his marbles.&quot; Eddie's death for one of the greatest And though he may be gone, and the influence of his will live on forever. Just 10 days after Eddie's death founding member of the band, which was a shock to most fans. Though his influence and were less than Eddie's, was an important step for the With the death of Eddie, Van Wolfgang Van Halen later stated, &quot;You can't have Van Halen putting an end to this over 40-year band. - Now that Van Halen are done and dusted, we have a clear chance to look at them and see what they really And what they've left is on the guitar. I mean, he is, is he as to rock and roll guitar? He's up there with Scotty and Hendrix and just about anybody. And I don't think you'd and so many of these shredding I mean, Eddie even changed the way he had the Frankencaster, which is a technical that was made up of referenced to Frankenstein. It wasn't just a straight Stratocaster. He took parts off of a Gibson and did some various things, and pickups and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's the one with those at weird angles where So, Eddie has a reputation and a musician, his musicality. As a guy who designed a guitar and brought that kind of into the 21st century. I mean, physical guitar itself, the design of the guitar itself, the sound of the guitar itself. And David Lee Roth will go down as that classic American entertainer. I have no doubt that if 50 or 60 years younger, he which is the American equivalent British Music Hall, and and a cane entertaining somehow. Either telling jokes or whatever, no doubt. And we can now see the with a fresh eye, 'cause And I think, when it's all done we forget about 'em. And I think Van Halen I don't know if this is but I think they'll be remembered like, you know, Elvis or the Beatles. They're really gonna be I think my daughter, who's when she's 40 and 45 and those records will still be popular with of the music world. God knows how big it'll be, In the annals of music history, Van Halen's story is a With 12 studio albums, 56 singles, and over 80 million Van Halen is among some of of all time and is looked back on fondly for the innovation they put Van Halen's influence shaping the culture of rock and inspiring countless Their legacy persists not only but also in Eddie's which will be forever etched They treated the stage as a canvas and themselves the artists, painting with the colors of rock. And they created some of the the world has ever seen, influencing many future including former member who has gone on to continue Even though Van Halen's their legacy will remain forever.