LYNNE MURPHY: I am from CGP GREY: I'm from downstate LYNNE MURPHY: I live now CGP GREY: And I live BRADY HARAN: So how long have LYNNE MURPHY: 13 years. CGP GREY: So I've been living And I've spent a lot of that teacher in secondary schools. LYNNE MURPHY: So if you're number or your credit card numbers in a row that So my number is 8844 The British way to say that And it would have never to say it that way. CGP GREY: I don't know about But I can say that for me, when really thrown by the thing for quite a while. LYNNE MURPHY: I would I might say 88, 44. But I wouldn't say double CGP GREY: When I moved here, One is the double And the second thing is that numbers in a different pattern So it was that different things like double I had such a hard time getting And maybe I'm just particularly LYNNE MURPHY: The thing that know whether to say triple things in a row. So if I had a credit card that say triple 0? Do I say double 0, 0? Do I say 0, double 0? Do I say 0, 0, 0? I don't know what to say. I'd love to hear from British how to read my credit CGP GREY: Off the top of my ever heard triple, but I I don't actually know. Perhaps your commenters know if they say triple. LYNNE MURPHY: Another example numbers in the thousands, or The president's address-- that's called 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in American. And I think most British people with that being sixteen But when you get to a bigger say that is fifty-three A British person would probably thousand three hundred here. CGP GREY: Where I grew up on much everybody around me would Like for example, I know that fifty-three hundred. But for me as a kid, I always phrase that. There's something about doesn't jell in my mind. And honestly, it took me years And so in my mind, when I hear seventy-two hundred, I have to terms of $100 bills. So again, if someone says visualize 53 $100 bills For me, I always consciously thousand three hundred instead BRADY HARAN: Which do you Fifty-three hundred or five LYNNE MURPHY: Well, five easier to understand. I mean, when I say fifty-three whether I mean 5,300 CGP GREY: Even though I think linguistically nicer-- it sort of rolls off the but I like the precision thousand three hundred. But I was definitely going that I lived around. LYNNE MURPHY: Nevertheless, When I'm thinking of numbers, something costs. CGP GREY: You deal with Like, it's not rare to come Whereas I don't think now, I'm not 100% sure. But I don't think that there are actually produced. I think it stops at 50. And I have only incredibly someone actually use And it's always remarkable. Like at a bank, I'll see So maybe that's why as an in terms of amounts of I have 12 $100 bills. So that's twelve hundred. I don't know if that has But that might be why British with that kind of phrasing. LYNNE MURPHY: The second year of one, in American speech, But in British speech, That sounds American. You'd say two thousand So two thousand one, two CGP GREY: This is one of those London for 10 years, and in front of classes and being British people all the time, I these little phrases, I always said it. And just naturally thinking one or two thousand one-- which way would I have said I'm not 100% sure. I think I would've said two those things that gets kind of country to another. Sometimes those little things you just become uncertain And then you feel like a You feel like, I should know how you just lose it. But I did look up, after you thousand and one-- I wanted to see how actually says that number. ARTHUR C. CLARKE: Of course, CGP GREY: He's British, and he &quot;Two Thousand and One&quot; as the he always phrased it. I tried to find some audio of title of the movie. But he's an incredibly secretive didn't do very many interviews And so I was unable to find any actually speaking aloud the famous movie. LYNNE MURPHY: If you want to people sometimes need to do, a to have a word that you put in it long enough that you've between the two numbers. And the typical way to do this typical way to do it is to So 1 Mississippi, 2 Mississippi, CGP GREY: 4 Mississippi, 5 LYNNE MURPHY: Hopefully, I've never actually tested it. CGP GREY: I have no idea where it's a fun word to say. And it's long, so that seems in the middle. LYNNE MURPHY: Another way to do one thousand, which you'll of syllables. The 1, one thousand, 2, one both America and Britain. But then in Britain, you've Piccadilly, 2 Piccadilly, 3 elephant, 3 elephant. CGP GREY: I was trying to think think I've ever had the students count in this kind of you're intentionally So I don't know what any of But you asking me about this I've ever heard about Piccadilly LYNNE MURPHY: When I said 1 that's how I learned it, with kind of rhythm to help you And because I've only done this actually heard people say 1 I'm not quite sure how CGP GREY: Piccadilly It has that same kind of rhythm So 1 Mississippi, 2 Piccadilly, Elephant does not work. I don't think that 1 elephant, 2 elephant-- it's so clunky. It's no good at all. I have to veto that one, but incredibly similar So I'm perfectly happy with LYNNE MURPHY: But it's also the found people have family anywhere outside their There's room for lots BRADY HARAN: We want to hear numbers when you count, there's a second spacing. So put comments under Mississippi, elephant, something different? We want to know. LYNNE MURPHY: People often ask when they get American addresses send something to. And the address might be four number before the street. So to live at 2787 something like that. Whereas the last place I lived mother always found She often wrote it as 70. She just couldn't imagine that I was only number 7 in the CGP GREY: It's funny, because I low house numbers thing. I mean, now that you have incredibly obvious. And yes, I can think of a bunch here that were low numbers. And it's definitely the case-- in New York growing up that I house number that was So I knew people who lived in but I don't think there was ever below that number. LYNNE MURPHY: Where I'm from, You rarely have a two-digit So my family is on the first the first number is 100. Well, it's about the grid In England, you don't talk about do in America, because higgledy-piggledy and don't But since American ones squares, what you want in the all match within each block. You talk about the 100 block Once you cross the road that and go on to the next block, So my block of my street where And then it starts over at 200 BRADY HARAN: So your numbers LYNNE MURPHY: Yeah. CGP GREY: It is almost numbers on one side of the do with the numbers on the And I still come across this, right? That you're walking across the side are going 3, 5, 7, 9. And you look across the other numbers will be 50, They're even, they're not the opposite direction and I don't understand how this came let it stand for as It is just baffling to me. And the first few times that I realize, like, you have to check side of the street, I got couple of times, trying Because I'm walking down very opposite direction, thinking, when I need those even And then you get to wherever cross the street. And you're hundreds off from trying to get. But you're still on It's just unbelievable to me. It's like, I refuse to believe this on purpose. This isn't exactly number the thing that I did notice, is the habit of naming buildings like, a giant office building And it'll be like, But this house suffix, or this corporate buildings, or just of remarkable and very charming That strikes me as being very say, oh, I live at But 50 Feinman House is a It's not like a little cottage, So I do quite like that. I love to explore the city and And there's always a ton of And in particular, in the past there's a bunch of big, luxury have been recently And I can't help but notice that number one at whatever So for example, there's 1 London Blackfriar's, there's And these are luxury And they always write it It'll say 1 Blackfriar's. And the other thing that I can't always like to write It's O-N-E. It's never I find that interesting. I assume that somewhere, some this is a kind of luxury I'd be curious to know elsewhere in the world. Because as we discussed, I don't in New York, because can't start at 1, right? They have to start at 100. But I've noticed that some of themselves as 1 whatever-- they're in suspicious spots. Where I look around and I think, can really claim that you There are numerous buildings they could be number So I have my doubts of this number system. Although with the street The numbers don't have anything so they could just be -So a man walks into a bar. He asks for 10 times more drinks The barman says, now that is