(dramatic music) (thunder rumbling) - [Child] Mother, I'm afraid. - [Mother] I'm right here near you. Don't be afraid. - [Child] Why is it so dark? - [Mother] Because the day is resting. The sun has gone to bed like we have. - [Child] Even the sun? - [Mother] Yes, even the sun. During the night all They close their eyes so Come on now try to close your little eyes. - [Child] But after, will I - Yes, as soon as the dawn then we'll see what the new - What is the new day going to bring us? - No one can know what is still hidden in the womb of the light. We have to wait for the birth of the new day. Not till then shall we the wonders that accompany the sunrise. There are but few who truly - Can you see, Grandfather? - On occasions my eyes are open, and when they do, I know that God has touched me on the shoulder. - Could you help me to see? - You are a child, my boy, and that makes my help unnecessary. The good Lord on high to the young and innocent the way he will have revealed it to the first man who looked upon creation with awe and infinite wonder. (gentle music) (sheep bleating) Thus it was from the when the good Lord created, the sky, the sun, the stars and all the vastness of the Earth. But before creation there was blackness, black darkness yet untouched by light. And the darkness was over the deep, the darkness of the void and the unknown, because as yet nothing existed not even the awareness of But behold the Spirit of God was already breathing over the waters, and God said, &quot;Let there be light.&quot; And there was light. The Lord God saw that the light was good and divided the light from the darkness. The light God called day Evening came, morning came, and that was the first of the days. Behold, the Lord said, &quot;Let the firmament exist.&quot; In the firmament God separated the waters that are of the Earth from the waters that are above the skies. And the Almighty saw that it was good. And evening came, and morning came to complete the second day. On the third day the Creator summoned all the waters that are under the Heavens so that the dry land appeared. And the Earth produced vegetation and plants of every species and all kinds of fruit-bearing trees each one with its own seed. And thus it came to be that from that day forth the Earth began to produce vegetation and all kind of plants and fruit-bearing trees of every species. Each producing its own seed to spread over the whole Earth. And, again, evening came, and morning came the third day. On the morning of the fourth &quot;Let there be two great lights &quot;one for the night and one for the day &quot;to serve as a sign for the seasons, &quot;for the days, and for the years.&quot; And behold the Lord God said, &quot;Let the waters team with living beings, &quot;and let birds fly above the Earth &quot;under the vault of the Heavens.&quot; (gentle music) The Lord God created all the in the waters each and all the winged creatures each according to its species. (gentle dramatic music) and morning came the firth day. (woman singing in foreign language) (sheep bleating) On the sixth day the Almighty said, &quot;Let the Earth produce living creatures, &quot;cattle, creeping things, &quot;and wild animals each one The Creator blessed them and said, &quot;Be fruitful and multiply. &quot;Fill with life the &quot;And let the Earth be filled &quot;with living being of every species.&quot; (dramatic music) (woman singing in foreign language) (fire crackling) (sheep bleating) (child crying) (sheep bleating) (sheep bleating) (thunder rumbling) When the Creator made Heaven and Earth, no wild bushes, no herbs because God had not yet and there was no human Instead water flowed out of the ground and moistened all the surface of the soil. (thunder rumbling) (sheep bleating) (thunder roaring) Out of the Earth the making him out of the The Creator breathed into his and the man became a living being. (baby crying) Thus, the Lord God determined to create man in his own image. God wanted them in the image of God. He created humankind, male and female. He created them in the Then God blessed them and said, &quot;Be fruitful and multiply. &quot;Fill the Earth and rule And thus it was. And evening came, and morning came, the sixth day. (rhythmic drum music) (camel grunts) Thus, the Heavens and the Earth and all the creatures And then the Creator and made it holy because on that day, God had completed all (gentle music) (woman singing in foreign language) (camel grunts) (sheep bleating) (insects chattering) (frogs croaking) (gentle flute music) (woman singing in foreign language) (bird chirps) (water sloshing) (sheep bleating) (woman singing in foreign language) (water sloshing) Then the soil brought forth life, and the trees produced fruit enticing to look at and good to eat. And the Lord set the man in so that he might cultivate And then the Lord God &quot;All the fruit that grow here are for you, &quot;and you may freely eat of them. &quot;But of all these only &quot;the fruit of the tree of &quot;If you eat of that fruit, &quot;you will know what is &quot;And of that knowledge you shall die.&quot; - So many stars. (gentle music) - Look, that one is Ishtar. It is the star of the morning. - But every dawn it's the last to fade. - Why is there a bright - Everything that lives has been given its own name. Like the sun and all the from the time of the creation, the Creator saw the man and so God thought I will who will be like him. And then the Lord, who had already created out of dust the animals of the field and all the birds of the air, brought them in front of Adam one by one in order that he might name each one. And whatever Adam called each that was to be its name. (dramatic music) - Even fire? (fire crackling) - And the fire too and the mountains. - [Child] And the rocks, Grandfather? And the plants? - And the plants with all their fruit. Each thing had its own name. But the man could not find So the Lord God caused Adam to fall into a deep sleep on the ground. The Lord approached as Adam lay there and took one of Adam's ribs from him. And from this rib God fashioned the woman, and brought her to Adam. Then Adam said, &quot;Behold, this one at &quot;and bone of my bone. &quot;Life from my life.&quot; (fire crackling) (sheep bleating) She is to be called woman because she was made from the man. That is why the man will leave and will be united with his wife. And the two will become one flesh. (crickets chirping) Now both of them were naked, but because they were The serpent was the most subtile of all the wild creatures And behold he said to the woman, &quot;Did God really say you &quot;of any of the trees in the garden?&quot; The woman said to the serpent, &quot;We may eat of the fruit &quot;but the Lord God said, &quot;You shall not eat of &quot;in the middle of the garden, &quot;or you shall die.&quot; (wind blowing) But the serpent flattered &quot;No, you will not die at all. &quot;In fact, God knows that the &quot;your eyes will be opened, &quot;and you will become like God &quot;for you will know good and evil.&quot; And thus the woman saw was good to eat, and pleasing to the eye, and enticing for the and so she took the fruit and ate it. Then she gave some to and he too ate of the fruit. (ground rumbling) Adam and the woman hid because their eyes were opened, and both of them realized they were naked. And so the Lord God Almighty &quot;Why are you hiding?&quot; Adam answered, &quot;I heard &quot;and I was afraid because now And the Lord God said, &quot;Who told you that you were naked? &quot;Have you, perhaps, eaten &quot;that I forbade you to eat?&quot; Adam answered, &quot;The &quot;and I ate some of it. &quot;And now, &quot;now I know fear. &quot;I am alone. &quot;Now I know good and evil.&quot; Then the Lord God said to the woman, &quot;Why have you done this?&quot; The woman answered, &quot;The serpent tempted me, &quot;and I ate of the fruit.&quot; And so the Lord God said to the serpent, &quot;Because you have done this thing, &quot;you shall be cursed among all the beasts. &quot;You shall crawl in the dust on your belly &quot;because it was you who caused her to eat. &quot;For all eternity there will be enmity &quot;between you and the woman, &quot;between your offspring and hers, &quot;and so until the end of time, &quot;her descendants will crush your head. &quot;And you will strike their heel.&quot; (wind blowing) (camels groaning) To the man God said, &quot;Because you disobeyed me, &quot;the Earth will be full &quot;You will earn your bread &quot;until you return to the ground &quot;because out of the ground you were made. &quot;Dust you are, &quot;and to dust you shall return.&quot; (water sloshing) (man breathing deeply) And again the Lord God said, &quot;Behold, now man and &quot;equal to me because &quot;and so they must not be allowed &quot;to reach out their hands &quot;and take the fruit of the tree of life &quot;and eat it and live forever.&quot; And the Lord God expelled Adam and the woman from the garden, so that they would work the soil from which they were made. And at the east of the Garden of Eden God placed the cherubim. Armed with the fiery flashing sword to guard the way to the tree of life. Adam named the woman Eve because she was the mother Their firstborn son they named Cain. When Eve gave birth to him she said, &quot;Behold, I have received &quot;With God, I have created a human being.&quot; (gentle music) And so it was, and after Cain, the woman gave birth to Abel, his brother. Abel the second son was a - Just like us. - Yes, just like us. But Cain worked in the (insects chattering) (birds chirping) (insects buzzing) (birds chirping) (water sloshing) (sheep bleating) (insects chattering) (sheep bleating) (insects chattering) (bird squawking) (ground rumbling) (wind blowing) (Abel blowing flute music) (Abel blowing flute music) (wind echoing flute music) (Abel blowing flute music) (wind echoing flute music) (sheep bleating) (Abel blowing flute music) (Abel blowing flute music) (bird squawking) (gentle music) (sheep bleating) (gentle flute music) In the course of time, Cain offered part of his crop to the Lord. Abel sacrificed to the Most High the finest of the newborn The Lord God looked with but of not pleased with Cain's. Cain was envious of his brother. He became angry. His face was downcast, and he withdrew into himself. (boar snorting) (Cain screaming) (boar snorting) (thunder rumbling) (fire crackling) (gentle flute music) The Lord God sought out &quot;Why are you so full of anger? &quot;And why is your face so downcast? &quot;If you are doing what is right, &quot;surely you ought to hold your head high. &quot;But if you're acting wrongly, &quot;look, the evil one is crouching &quot;at the door hungry to get you. &quot;Wicked thoughts and &quot;But you can be the master of them.&quot; (Cain screaming) (sheep bleating) (gentle flute music) (sheep bleating) In spite of the Lord God's warning, Cain raised his hand against his brother Abel and killed him. The Lord God again sought &quot;Where is Abel your brother?&quot; Cain, afraid and in hiding, replied, &quot;I do not know. &quot;Am I my brother's keeper?&quot; The Lord said, &quot;What have you done, Cain? &quot;The voice of your brother's blood &quot;is crying out from the &quot;From this day forth you &quot;which witnessed your &quot;Thus when you till the Earth, &quot;it will not easily yield &quot;You shall be a restless wanderer, &quot;and you will not cease to Cain said, &quot;This punishment &quot;Behold you banish me from this place &quot;and from your holy presence. &quot;And I must hide from your face &quot;for the rest of my days far from you. &quot;I must live in danger. &quot;For whoever meets me on the But the Holy One did not &quot;Whoever kills Cain will And the Lord in his love put so that no one coming (footsteps stomping) (camel grunts) (dramatic music) Cain withdrew from the and settled in the land of Then Cain united himself to his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to Enoch. Cain founded a city and he called the city And these are the descendants of Cain. Enoch fathered Irad, and Irad fathered Mehujael, Mehujael fathered Methushael, who in turn fathered Lamech. Lamech married two women, Adah and Zillah. The second wife, Zillah, gave birth to Tubal-Cain, the craftsman, ancestor of all those who work with copper and all other metals. Tubal-Cain's sister was Naamah, who's name means the one loved by all, the one who is seduced by the comforts and pleasures of urban living. And Lamech said. - All of you hear my voice. Listen to what I am about to say. I killed a man who attacked me, a boy in a moment of rage. Sevenfold vengeance for Cain, but for Lamech seventy-sevenfold. (camel groans) (rhythmic drumming) - So now it happens that violence spreads itself wider and wider among men. Behold from action to action, humankind shapes its own history. Some are perpetrators of violence. Some are its victims. Some come out of the east. Others come out of the west. But in all this movement, which is the right direction? (rhythmic drumming) (bird squawking) (insects chattering) Then Adam, the father of all peoples, was joined again to his wife. She gave birth to a male child, and she named him Seth because she said, &quot;God has granted me other offspring &quot;in the place of Abel (gentle music) And Seth had a son whom he called Enosh. It was at that time that people began to invoke the name of the Lord. Then Enosh fathered Kenan, and Kenan fathered Mahalalel, Mahalalel father the Jared, and Jared, Enoch, Enoch fathered Methuselah, and Lamech fathered Noah. (woman singing in foreign language) (donkey braying) (lively music playing loudly) (horse neighing) (camel groaning) (lively music playing loudly) (rhythmic drum music) (girl laughing) (horse neighing) (tambourines jangling) (camel grunts) (lively music playing distantly) (ground rumbling) (wind blowing swiftly) (wind blowing) Loyalty has disappeared Neighbor lies to neighbor. The poor are oppressed by and the evil doer in not even the Lord, will The Lord God looks down from the Heavens at the children of Adam to see if a single one is still wise, if a single one still seeks God. But many have become corrupt. Many have proven faithless and violent. They are guilty of all manner of sins. Not one of them does what is right. All are seeking their own advantage. Why, O' Lord, do you keep so distant? Why do you hide yourself Hear me, all you nations and peoples. Listen to me, all you People high and low, rich and poor alike, do not be over ought or jealous when some of you become rich and live in ever greater splendor. When they die, they will Their wealth will not go down with them. Humankind in all its splendor cannot last. (lively music) Human beings will never their own ransom no matter They will see that the wise also die just as the fool and the brute, and leave their wealth behind for others. The tomb is their home forever, their dwelling place Even though they give and properties, you who eat blessed are you for you walk Your wife will be a fruitful vine in the inner places of your house, and your children round your table like shoots of an olive tree. Even the sparrow finds a home, the swallow a nest to place its young. Blessed are they who dwell (children yelling) (woman singing in foreign language) - [Woman] Tell me then, where will you lead your flocks to graze? Where will you stop to rest at noon? For sick with love, I am. Your right hand is under my head, and the other embraces me. On my bed in the night I searched for the one I searched for him but did not find him. Before the day breeze rises before the shadows flee, return my love. Leap joyously like a gazelle, like a young stag on the Kiss me with the sweetest Your love is sweeter than any nectar. Your name is an inebriating perfume. Your banner on me is love. (sheep bleating) (gentle music) (sheep bleating) (rhythmic drumming) (people speaking loudly) (dramatic music) (lively dance music) (lively dance music) - &quot;Show respect for my &quot;Revere everything that &quot;But unless you honor my laws &quot;and live your days &quot;you will know the terrors I can inflict. &quot;No light shall enter your eye. &quot;You shall suffer fever and disease, &quot;and your days shall pass in agony. &quot;In vain will you wait to &quot;Your enemies will gather the harvest. &quot;And if in spite of this &quot;I will continue to chastise you, &quot;and will punish you seven &quot;I will break your proud strength, &quot;and I will make the sky &quot;and your soil like &quot;Then you will seek refuge in your cities, &quot;but there I will send &quot;And you shall fall into &quot;And if in spite of this &quot;and continue to go against me, &quot;I will go against you in fury &quot;and punish you seven &quot;You shall eat the flesh of your children. &quot;I will destroy your higher places. &quot;I will smash your incense altars, &quot;and I will pile your (wind blowing swiftly) (horse neighing) (rhythmic drumming) (horse neighing) (drum music pulsating) (camels groaning) Ooh Ooh Ooh Ooh Ooh Ooh, ooh Ooh, ooh, ooh Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh Ooh, ooh Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh (wind blowing swiftly) - Then the Most High saw was great on the Earth, and that the violent heart of humankind contrived nothing but evil schemes. The Lord God regretted having made human beings on the Earth. The Holy One was grieved at heart, and said, &quot;I will rid &quot;of the human beings I created. &quot;And of all the domestic animals, &quot;the crawling creatures &quot;all I will exterminate them &quot;because I regret having created them.&quot; (water sloshing) And so the Creator God spoke to Noah, &quot;I have decided that the end &quot;For the Earth is full of lawlessness &quot;and violence because of them. &quot;So now, I will destroy (wind blowing swiftly) Then the Lord God said to Noah, &quot;I am going to send the flood, &quot;the waters on Earth, &quot;to destroy all living things &quot;with the breath of life under Heaven. &quot;Everything on Earth is to perish. &quot;But with you Noah I will make a pact. &quot;With you I will establish my covenant. &quot;Behold you will build on ark. &quot;You will make it out of resinous wood. &quot;You will divide it into compartments &quot;and caulk it with pitch inside and out. (gentle guitar strumming) (birds chirping) &quot;You will fashion a roof for the ark &quot;raising it a cubit higher than the rest. &quot;You will build the ark with three decks, &quot;lower, middle, and higher, &quot;and on one side of the (insects chattering) This is the story of Noah. Noah was a good man, just and honest, and he walked with the Lord. Noah fathered three sons, (rhythmic drum music) (gentle guitar strumming) And so, Noah did exactly as Then the Lord God said to Noah, &quot;Go aboard the ark and &quot;your wife and wives of your sons.&quot; &quot;From all living you will take into the to save their lives with yours. There must be a male and female of the birds, the cattle, and of all the creatures According to their species, two of each will go aboard with you, so that they might live. (dramatic music) (people singing in foreign language) (sheep bleating) (donkey braying) (horse neighing) Again, the Lord God said, &quot;Take with you provisions of every kind &quot;And lay in a store of them. &quot;They will be nourishment for you &quot;and for the others in the ark.&quot; And Noah did this exactly (people singing in foreign language) (bird squawking) (birds squawking) (people singing in foreign language) (rain pattering) (thunder rumbling) Seven days later the waters of the flood appeared on the Earth. All the springs of the and the cataracts of On the same day Noah entered the ark with his three sons, his wife, and the wives of his three sons. These people and the animals, each according to its species, all came to Noah in the ark, and thus it was as God had commanded. And then the Lord God (sheep bleating) (chicken clucking) (sheep bleating) (sheep bleating) (thunder rumbling) (donkey braying) (man coughing) (rain splashing) (thunder roaring) (thunder roaring) (baby crying) (thunder roaring) (baby crying) (thunder roaring) (donkey braying) (fire crackling) (rain splashing) - The Lord God Almighty summons the Earth from the west to the east, and the Heavens proclaim his justice. Our God is coming to sit in judgment. Before him, devouring fire. Around him, raging tempest. Behold, the Holy One comes, and the Holy One speaks. I am the Lord God, your God. Not for your sacrificial offerings does your God reproach you. Nor for the solemn ceremonies you ever perform to the Almighty. But do not offer me a bull of your herd, nor the goat you prize over others. They're already mine. All the beasts of the forest, the animals that graze on the I know every bird that and all living creatures of Does God eat perchance, the or drink blood from Offer thanksgiving. Let it be your sacrifice to the Holy One. In this way, fulfill the vows (gentle music) (women singing in foreign language) (floorboards creaking) (floorboards creaking) (boat thudding) (bottles jangling) - The flood lasted for The waters swelled lifting the ark until it floated off the ground. The waters rose higher and higher on the surface of the Earth until they covered the highest And so it was that all living Every being with the least breath of life in its nostrils died. Everything on the face of human beings, birds, and creeping things. (birds chirping) and with him those in the ark. (floorboards creaking) Then the Creator remembered Noah and all the animals that And so the Lord God Almighty and the waters began to subside. The springs of the deep and the cataracts of the Heavens were stopped (woman singing in foreign language) (birds chirping) (sheep bleating) (donkey braying) (wood creaking) (chickens clucking) (wood thudding) (birds chirping) And thus the waters began and after 150 days the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. (singing in foreign language) (water sloshing) (singing in foreign language) (water sloshing) In the 10th month on the dry land began to appear, the peaks of the (bird squawking) Another 40 days passed, and Noah released a raven because the waters had not yet receded from the face of the Earth. (water sloshing) (water splashing) (bird cooing) Then Noah released a dove. But, the dove too returned For there was still water (water sloshing) (gentle music) Noah waited another seven days, and once again sent out (bird squawking) (dramatic music) (footsteps approaching) In the evening, the dove came back to him, and behold in its beak And so Noah realized that the waters were (bird cooing) Noah waited another seven days. Then he set free the dove, and this time it returned to him no more. (gentle music) (woman singing in foreign language) And so the Most High blessed Noah and his &quot;As long as Earth endures, &quot;seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, &quot;summer and winter, day and night, &quot;will never cease. &quot;I will now set my bow in the clouds. &quot;This is the sign of the covenant &quot;I am establishing between &quot;The bow will be on the &quot;And I shall remember the eternal covenant &quot;established between God &quot;Every living thing &quot;will be yours to eat. &quot;Behold, I give you everything. &quot;As in the past I gave you &quot;But there is one exception. &quot;You must not eat flesh with its life, &quot;that is to say with its blood in it. &quot;And I will hold you accountable &quot;for your own life blood too.&quot; The Lord of life will demand an accounting of every living creature. The Creator of life will Whoever sheds human blood because the Lord has made man (rhythmic drum music) (gentle music) (gentle music)