- [Jared] This is the Enigma machine. It looks like a typewriter but it has a very different purpose. During World War II it was or in other words encrypted. In this video, we'll look at how it was used and then we'll to see how the mechanism works. (electricity buzzes) This video is sponsored by Brilliant, a fun and interactive way Towards the end of this video we'll take a closer look While making this video from enigmamuseum.com. These guys took a part and showed me what's on the inside, behind the panels, all the inside wiring and how each mechanical piece works. This would have taken a and animate without their help. So big thanks to enigmamuseum.com and now let's get to some animation. To really understand the Enigma machine we need to understand Let's use an example. Say we have two friends, Alice and Bob. Alice wants to send a message to Bob however, Alice doesn't want anyone else to be able to read this Just as an example we'll keep Alice will need to scramble This is called encryption. It looks like a bunch of random letters and if Eve gets a hold of to understand it. When the message gets to Bob he needs to unscramble the message. This is called decryption. Now he can read the original message. Alice and Bob need to agree on a way to encrypt and decrypt their messages. A real simple way to do this This involves shifting all three spaces to the right in the alphabet so an H becomes a K, an E becomes an H, an L becomes an O, an L becomes another O, and an O becomes an R. Now the message looks like gibberish, A bunch of random letters. When Bob gets the message all he has to do is take each letter and This will give him the original message so he can read it again. Now Eve in the middle, as how the messages were encrypted she won't be able to read any one of them. During war encryption Commanding officers need to to the troops on the battlefield but they don't want the enemy to be able to understand these messages. Nowadays encryption is but this wasn't always the case. The Enigma machine was used to You can think of this letter scrambler. It was invented in the early 1900s and then most famously, it was used by the German military in the 1930s and throughout World War II. This is the keyboard with 26 letters. And this is the lamp board but these letters can light up. Each time you press a a letter on the lamp board lights up, but it will always be a different letter than the one that was pressed. There are usually two people involved when the machine is used, one and another person to that appear on the lamp board. Let's use our example from earlier. Type in each letter and that appear on the lamp board. Now we have our encrypted message, the scrambled letters This message is sent usually The person who receives this message also has their own Enigma machine. To decrypt the message or unscramble it they type in the letters on the keyboard and write down which letters appear on the lamp board and out The Enigma machine was used for both encryption and decryption. The person sending the and the person receiving the message also needs a machine to So how does the Enigma to give you? Maybe you press an A and outcomes an H. How does it do that? Well, part of the answer is electricity. Let me show you a simple example. We have a battery, some that uses electricity in This is called a circuit. It's a closed loop for But if there's a break in the wire, then the light bulb turns off. If we put a switch in here, the light bulb on or off. There has to be a complete path Now let's add another and a light bulb. Now we can turn on two depending on which switch we turn on, there's a different We could expand this even more, more switches and more light bulbs. Now, this is predictable. We know which switch but what if we scramble these wires? Now the switch for the letter A turns on the letter C light bulb and the C switch turns on the B light bulb. This idea of scrambling the wires, that's how the Enigma machine works. Let me show you on the real thing. The battery is inside in of the machine. The keyboard has 26 keys. When you press one of which will then turn on one The light bulbs will then that's directly above When you release the key, the circuit is disconnected and the Each key connects a different path which means a different light bulb. Okay, this is the understanding the circuit or the path that the electricity follows Maybe pause the video, get your degree in electrical engineering The three main parts that are the rotors, the keyboard Let's start up here with the rotors. This machine has three of them. This is where the letters get scrambled. Let's take a look at one of the rotors. You have the numbers one So one is for A, two is and all the way around until 26 for Z. On the side you'll see There are also 26 on the other side too. When you put two of these rotors together the metal contacts for electricity to pass through. On the inside of these three rotors you'll find lots of wires but as you can see, it's all scrambled. So let's go through the Follow the wire through for the number four. So in this case an A was changed to a D. When electricity travels through one rotor it changes the letter once. But remember, we have and they each have different When electricity travels it changes the letter three times. Then at the end, we have the reflector. This also has 26 metal contacts. Inside is more wiring that So it goes in as one as another letter. To the right of here is the input wheel. It has 26 wires that go in and connects to the 26 metal contacts. Let's put this all together. Electricity flows through let's say the wire for the letter Y. Then it gets changed to a different letter at all three rotors. Then it hits the reflector, And then it goes back which changes the letter three more times. And it comes back out on a completely different letter. And if you were counting, was changed seven times. Now, this is just an could get scrambled, but the Each of these three rotors can rotate to 26 different positions. When any one of the this will also change making it very difficult are going to come out. The 26 wires from the input of the machine to the Now the plugboard was yet another way that the letters could you could swap two letters. So let's say we wanna You could take one of these cables here with plugs at each end and put and the other one in the J spot. On the back side of the plugboard, you can see the individual wires going to the tops of each socket, of each socket. Let's take a closer look. This is the plugboard If nothing is plugged into through the top, then and then out through the bottom. This means that the plugboard It came in as the letter as the letter O. When a plug is inserted, it so it doesn't connect anymore. Now the electricity out through the top pin of the plug, then through the cable and On the other side. What came in as an O now Often times, they would use Notice how a few of these without a plug. Let's take a look at Each of these keys is connected They have springs that push them back up when you release the key. the last row of keys have the Right next to all of these keys most of the space is taken up. These are the 26 key switches. These switches are a than just the on-off Let's take a look at This one is for the letter P. The switch has three The wires are connected back here, and the flow of electricity is controlled from the other end. When a key is pressed it comes down and hits the rubber end of the middle tab. What this does is changes Before a key is pressed the and after the key is pressed, the bottom two tabs are connected. There are 26 key switches that are connected to them. The top tabs are connected The wires go to the left 26 light bulbs. The middle tabs connect to the plugboard. They go through the wires to and down to the corresponding A wire from the battery goes directly into the bottom tabs of each key switch. So each switch has three different tabs and three different places Before a key is pressed the bottom tab isn't connected to has nowhere to go. This is true for all 26 key switches. No circuit, which means all Now let's say we press the X key. The battery and the This completes a circuit as this circuit we saw earlier. Let me show you a quick overview Don't worry if you we're gonna go over each part one by one. (mellow music) Let's take a closer look at each step. Electricity flows from and then middle tab on the Then it goes directly to the plugboard. And in this case there's for the letter X so it comes up the side and into the input wheel. Then through three rotors, the reflector, and then back through the rotors again, changing letters at each step of the way. What started as the letter Now we come back to the The letter K is swapped with a C. So in through the letter and then out for the letter C. Then travels from the plugboard back to the middle tab on Remember we started as the letter X but then came back in as the letter C. Then it goes out the wire of the top tab and up to the letter C light bulb. Then the current flows through to this tiny wire which This completes our circuit. As soon as the key is and the light bulb turns off. So just to recap, once a key is pressed electricity goes from the battery to whichever key switch was pressed. Then the plugboard, rotors, then the key switch for then the corresponding light bulb and then back to the battery. The letter has changed and then possibly two more Remember that the letter when it goes to the plugboard. Okay, the electric circuit was If you made it this far, we're doing good, but there's a little bit Each time a key is pressed of these three rotors will turn. Press a key rotor turns, This means that if you press a key twice you'll get two different letters. In fact, if you keep a different light turns on every time. This is what made Enigma so powerful. The code was always changing which letters were going to come out. The way these rotor spin No electricity needed for this. Even if the battery was taken out, pressing one of these keys On the bottom of the machine called the actuator bar. It works like a seesaw or a teeter-totter. Pressing any of the keys which pushes it up on the other side. Around the backside is This uses a ratchet and pawl mechanism. This is the ratchet gear. And this small piece is the pawl. When the pawl is pushed and then comes back down. You can see how this would This up and down motion will one slot each time. The next two rotors Let's take a look at the second one. Most of the time the with the ratchet gear teeth. It's blocked by an edge around The first rotor has a tiny When the rotor spins the Watch what happens when it comes up again on the other side. The pawl will fit right into the notch and the second rotor is The next time it will be blocked again and only the first rotor That edge on the first around before the second rotor This will happen once The same thing with the third rotor. There's another edge on the second rotor that has to go all the way around before the third one is allowed to spin. Last but not least we on the very back with index They ride along the outside This means that the rotors at the next number. This is important so that always line up between the rotors. Before you use the Enigma machine, it would need to be configured There are four of these First is the rotor order. Each Enigma machine came Choose three of them and to put them in. Then there's the ring which is basically the but that also includes This means this will change can be advanced to the next number. Then there's the starting You can set this to the And the final setting is the configuration of the plugboard at the very front. So everyone in the German in advance. They were distributed out by paper so they would know on which day of the month. Even if the opposing side they won't be able to read the messages unless they know the settings Some of the ideas behind are complex and sometimes However, it may come easier to those that increase their ability brilliant.org is a problem solving website and app that has over 60 science and computer science. The idea here is to learn by doing. They teach you a concept and it out in a fun and engaging way. You can use Brilliant to help or as a professional or anyone who wants to keep their skills sharp. There's a wide range of content and they're even adding new Instead of just learning a in the numbers, you that formula works. There's nothing quite so satisfying as when that light bulb I like Brilliant because it shows that learning can and should be fun. You can sign up for free by going to brilliant.org/jaredowen. Also the first 200 people will get 20% off their annual premium membership. (mellow music)