In the world of electric reigned supreme. But its numbered. In China, the it's been losing ground a ruthless price war has competitive market. If Tesla had not had price probably would have last year. And there's one carmaker given Tesla a run for its backed BYD. The Chinese million new car insurance making it the top brand share of 11%. I don't think anywhere in automobile has any explosive growth in such BYD has grown into this You look at the monthly at the top. In 2023, BYD produced more vehicles, which include battery electrics, production of 1.84 BYD is so much ahead of It's almost ridiculous. Early on, Elon Musk was Chinese carmakers weren't rivals. It used to be that foreign the market share in brands. And when you look Chinese OEMs and Chinese market, they are some Now, they're a serious dominate the Chinese ambitions of expanding In 2023, BYD's exports vehicles across 70 About 40% of the EV market and they're just starting places like Australia, potentially very soon, CLSA has some predictions enter the top five and this year they may BYD, short for Build Your started as a battery Chuanfu in Shenzhen, It started out in the batteries for cell ten years, low cost was We're going to undercut After building a supplying customers such decided to enter the auto It bought Xi'an Tsinchuan its first internal the F3. In 2008, it in hybrid EV. I remember driving in and They were called the F3 Formula One racing, which their cars were these cars that were powered by In 2010, it unveiled its vehicle, the e6. It was progress, but it Taxis would buy the they got incentives to do But very few private appetite for BYD cars. The company's auto growth through the 2010s. Sales increased, but only Profits on those sales In fact, in 2018 and year were declining. Up until very recently, whether or not it was company. However, it managed to In 2019, I saw some of the Tang and the Han, designers, world class And the first time you actually good looking There's potential here. In 2022, the company ICE vehicles, focusing on and plug in hybrids. The majority of their cars that helps with volume, completely shifted into once. BYD is backed by Warren Hathaway and considered Market in 2008, when the company. Warren Buffett himself man. I don't understand I'm not sure about the Will EVs take off or not? But this guy is one in 10 So he recognized Chuanfu and it's with blessing to an quarter billion dollars. A lot of the reason why he the battery business, business. And that has with their vehicle sales. BYD's stock is up over invested. Berkshire stake in the company, its shares since last Why would he draw down? So one is geopolitics, as Taiwan, he said, I don't location. Second thing price war about one year and that price war has So much so that most EV money today. There's only others that are actually At the core of BYD's Many of its vehicles In Munich just a few The Seagull, priced at, Very competitive in the under. Its expertise in most expensive part of an well. BYD designs, develops, batteries at scale. So not only they have the capacity for their own supplying batteries build battery plants all They are one of the top building lithium iron particular. They cost kilowatt hour to batteries are also They last a long time. As a leader in battery supplies batteries to Tesla, Toyota and Kia. In 2020, it launched the phosphate battery that breakthrough in high levels of safety. By many accounts, bYD's class globally right now. What they've done the energy density, and everyone in the industry. BYD is not just in the makes trucks, busses and The company actually busses in the U.S. At a factory in They have had a big fleet vehicles including America. But its passenger cars are majority of its sales. The company offers variety of price points. The Dynasty series price starting around all the way up to the starting around $34,000. The vehicles that really new energy segment is the It's a sedan that they this car just took off. The Ocean series appeals features the Seagull, starting price around sedan that starts around When they released the one of the things that I have many different appeal more to young women. BYD has also introduced subbrands Denza, Yangwang Denza, a joint venture in 2010, introduced a few before undergoing a Mercedes has since but BYD has continued to starting with the D9, a The N7, a direct model Y, and the N8, a Yangwang, created in segment with a supercar, the U8. Details of its revealed it will have a range around 500 miles. Fang Cheng Bao, also its first vehicle, the year. Yangwang is definitely really luxury segment of The cars are either they're in the sports car different from BYD's Most automakers, at some try to create halo well on the rest of the image for the brand. And BYD is no different. It's a sign of their say, look, we can do what Porsche can do. Just as well, if not Being the leading electric set its sights on markets. Starting around 2018, margins started to drop, said, uh oh, if we stay market, we're going to hyper competition. And we're already seeing It's already a major where it has 43% market currently the top selling Brazil, Colombia and In Thailand, they were the market a year ago, months, they've become and I believe they also their sales in the this year. Last year, the company and is looking to enter They just are launching increasingly growing into America, where Tesla much of a presence right BYD is building up its Last year, it sold 13,000 its own massive cargo 7,000 vehicles. It recently delivered its first voyage. It's pretty in line with make sure they have as With the ship, that just over costs. It's safe to say that right now overseas is there's legislation to go with money to buy decent charging The company has said it European plant in automaker is facing The EU in the last couple they're going to be that went into the electric vehicles. The EU Commission saying, costs. We think that over subsidizing your you're so competitive In China, new energy substantial support from Rhodium Group estimates approximately $4.3 between 2015 and 2020. But the biggest question sell its cars in the They're definitely Market, waiting for the U.S. And Europe promise a They have to enter and thrive globally. Currently, tariffs make it China EVs hit with a 25% tariff imposed on A lot of these companies companies, which in some levels of government in more of a tolerance for, being, taking losses in share. It recently announced it Mexico, possibly to gain American market. Few people know it, but supplier of cars to next natural step will be manufacturing plants in They're already looking advanced in their our vehicles up through starting probably, their What is the possibility of and closer to our market? Within the next 5 or 6 automakers likely begin Why is that important? basically eliminates that People will say, Chinese. You know, what want to pay $9,000 for a pay $19,000 or $20,000 No contest. And that's everybody we've talked to U.S. Lawmakers have warned flood the market and be a automakers. People in D.C. definitely you can bet that they're authorities. The risk is at a time when UAW has record high wages and In Australia, Chinese restricted by tariffs, considerably there. After entering the has 14% of the EV market. Tesla leads with a 53% selling there since 2014. The Chinese car companies car companies in the have significant success depending on what kind of are established. Frankly, I think if there established, they will other car companies in They're extremely good. But with China becoming powerhouse, it may be at bay. Chinese automakers have to produce really They're more affordable, many respects, better industry has reason to be China, today, has capacity world's demand for And given their strength, their increased designs start to wonder, what is juggernaut?