- Mmm, wah. - Get outta here! (laughing) Okay, how about you go color? - Okay. - Okay. That was my son and today I'm gonna tell It might come as a surprise to a lot of you that I even have a of making videos, I've never I'm fairly private and to my family on my channel. Now you might say, hold up, you put your niece and But in my defense, I feel at this point that, (kids screaming, yelling) (boom!) about them. (snowballs firing rapidly) (upbeat rock music) (boom) (pop) The reason I'm so he has special needs. He is on the autistic spectrum, So even as I make this video, But this is something that strongly about. A lot of times when they want to know what Like does he have a photographic complex math in his head? For example, if you tell from any year, okay, he of the week it lands on. Gonna randomly generate a date. June 2nd, 2004. What day, is that on? - Wednesday. (laughs) - It's gonna take me a What did I say? June 2nd, 2004. You said Wednesday. Here's June, June 2nd, 2004. Let's do one more okay? I'm gonna generate another random date. May 26th, 2006 - Um, Friday. - (laughing) And there he goes. What did I even say? May 5th? - Um, May 26th, 2006. Okay. His parents and teachers the ability to do this, to communicate that to us either. - I need some help too. - You need some help? Okay, let's go make Play Dough. It's actually a common the majority of the kids don't have remarkable abilities like this. Our son, however, does have a if you see him in public, apparent. A lot of times when in a crowded place, he or it might seem like he doesn't really know what's going on. Carly Fleischmann has explain why this is, about Carly is that because because she can't speak for just severely autistic and had other extreme mental handicaps. Until one day when they put her in front of a computer where she could type. And then they realized there was so much more going on in her head than anyone could have imagined. - [Carly] I am autistic, Take time to know me before you judge me. - [Mark] This amazing able to explain how it - [Carly] Our brains We take in many sounds I take over a thousand pictures of a person's face when I look at them. That's why we have a hard - Basically, people with in their brain like the rest of us. So if you and I were in this park, I can ignore and just focus on your voice. But if I had autism, I ringing the bell behind 'cause he is not getting any ice cream. And the cars going by, and the plane up there in the distance, not to mention and the fact that the tag on my shirt is kind of rubbing on my back. It's sensory overload and and it's really overwhelming This is why headphones at a place like Disneyland, in a familiar environment you start to get a glimpse You wouldn't know this but he loves to laugh to the point that sometimes - Whee! (laughing) - [Mark] This is us doing He loves routine and repetition because it's familiar and because his brain knows what to expect and it doesn't need to filter. And as a dad, his love because my same jokes Some of these I've used and I still get this response. I have a name, oh, I'm sorry, turtle. (laughs) - This leads to his remarkable and it has to do with how at home by himself. When he first meets someone, like what your favorite color is and if your house has stairs, he will make you a full page in about two pounds of and he'll write you a As you can see, he takes and so we are constantly running out of envelopes and stamps. What's so remarkable to happy people become when And the letters themselves certainly aren't any literary masterpiece but people know they mean Most kids who are 12 from school and they're on their phones or they're thinking about But his biggest thrill is His superpower is making He also makes people better. Birthday parties are a even if it's not his. And everyone is always with him so he can make sure - Oh no, Oh no, Try again. - Having a child with special at times, and certainly some cases out there are much harder than others. But his mom has always done a great job of finding and focusing on the best parts about our son, and then making and celebrate those parts as well. Regardless of your religious or your favorite sports we like to divide ourselves into tribes, I think we can all agree is one where you leave the Sort of a net positive There's a lot of normal and seek to tear others of money, but are just terrible people. And by my definition, People with special needs might not fit the traditional criteria of success by benefiting GDP or getting a PhD to cure disease, but they have such a net positive effect on the people that get They personify traits like perseverance such as with Jason here, who has autism and was the dutiful sports So the coach put him in for the last four minutes He sank, not one, not two, including one right at the supportive classmates of their lives. People with special needs, and demonstrate the simple - Santa! - Hey buddy, how are you? - With our hectic it reminds us that things don't have to be that complicated. - I love you kiddo. - I love you too Papa. - [Mark] Or in the case of Carly that our initial critical snap judgments of each other might be totally wrong. My son will never be the star He won't be the first nor will he invent the cure to cancer. But by the best definition of and his special needs buddies like them, are giants living They make the world a better place, and we're lucky to have them. Thank you for watching the video. If it resonated with you in with someone in your life from hearing the message. I also have a very exciting announcement. It's super distracting if - I was doing that? - Yeah, just hold the cards. - Or I can sit. You don't mind right? - I mean, do I have a choice? This is your house. - Oh yeah, this is my house. Alright, Mark and I will be co-hosting a three hour live stream for charity on Mark's YouTube channel 5:00 PM Pacific, 8:00 PM Eastern. You can figure out all the other times we'll be doing this together. - [Mark] It's called Color the Spectrum. 'cause you know my son likes to color and we'll also be joined by of such as MrBeast, the - I have a friend named Jack Jack Black, Conan O'Brien Stephen Colbert, Adam Sandler, Chris Rock. - Heard of him. Not to mention John Stewart, Sarah Silverman, Mark Hamill, Maya Rudolph, Terry Crews, Paul Rudd and Zach Freaking Galifianakis. (wheezing) We'll also be joined - I'll be there. - I'll be there. - I'll be there. - I'll be there. - I'll be there. - I know you already said - All of the proceeds are a well-respected charity specialize in supporting as they transition into becoming adults. - [Jimmy] There are resources for kids and teens affected by autism but there isn't much for adults. - Yeah, it kind of drops off, so selfishly, my son is So if you've ever wanted to I don't have a Patreon, so you can do it. So click the blue donate and we can start raising funds now even before the big live stream coming. - It's gonna be a lot of fun. We're bringing the biggest and old people media great prizes, and most raise an actual ton of money to help some special - So follow the link in for more information. Get pumped, go donate, - I'm already pumped. - As am I. (upbeat music)