Welcome to our compilation of 8 battles from the Pacific. It's June 4, 1942, at 6:16 in the morning, and high above the Pacific, 72 Japanese bombers and their fighter escorts mercilessly blast through the defending American aircraft and barrel on towards their target. It's an idyllic atoll, home to an important American air and naval base. The air raid sirens howl across the island. Its defenders look up to see Japanese fighters and bombers swarming from above. Bursts of flak blossom overhead, multiplying with each minute as the Americans rush to their stations and anti-aircraft guns open fire. Both sides know that the outcome of this battle will have far reaching consequences. Today the Japanese attack Midway. Bombs and bullets rain down on the island airbase, tracers zip skywards and targets are decimated one by one: the powerplant, the oil storage facility, the seaplane hanger, and then the hospital, alongside warehouses and the marines command post. But the Americans put up a fierce resistance, bringing down at least five Japanese aircraft and damaging many more. Despite causing great destruction, the Japanese fail to neutralise US air power, with the American runways remaining intact. From the cockpit of his SBD Dauntless dive bomber, Lieutenant Richard Halsey Best looks out across the blue expanse of the Pacific Ocean. He's commanding a squadron of 15 Dauntless bombers. In another plane, Earl Gallaher commands another 15 aircraft. Both squadrons are part of a flight of 33 bombers led by Lieutenant Commander McClusky. Thanks in part to the cracking of Japanese naval codes, American commanders are aware of some of the Japanese operations to attack Midway. The only way to stop the Japanese is to find and destroy their most powerful assets: the aircraft carriers, known as the Kido Butai. The Japanese aim is to use these carriers to neutralise and capture Midway and then to use the island as a trap, luring in the last of the severely weakened American Pacific naval forces that have survived Pearl Harbour into a decisive battle. McClusky leads the flight over the area he estimates Kido Butai to be, only to find an empty square of ocean. But that's not his only problem. He looks down at his controls to see his fuel levels are dangerously low. He presses on, determined that this flight will not be for nothing, turns the formation to fly west, then to fly northwest, intending to conduct a standard box search. McClusky grits his teeth, praying for a change in fortune. He spots a white streak in the ocean, the trail of a Japanese destroyer making at great speed. Its white wake paints an arrow in the blanket of the blue sea. &quot;I see them, boys. I finally see them.&quot; The ship is clearly trying to catch up, to the Kido Butai. Best, McClusky and Gallaher feel a surge of optimism and McClusky leads the flight north. As they draw closer and the dark shapes fade to the clear outlines of Japanese aircraft carriers, they know they found the Kido Butai. But Best notices the impressive formation appears to be in some disarray. Far below at sea level there are American planes already attacking the fleet, it's Lem Massey's torpedo squadron from the Yorktown! Best soon realises: it's the conclusion of a disaster. The slow and vulnerable TBD Devastators are no match for the defending Japanese zeros and countless anti-aircraft guns. The TBDs are cut down mercilessly and what's left of them flies in disarray, with every man for himself. High above, McClusky observes the four Japanese carriers. The southernmost and nearest is the giant Kaga. Two miles ahead of it and five to seven miles to the right is the Akagi, flagship of the Kido Butai's commander, admiral Nagumo. 14 miles beyond them, it's the Hiryu . Another 6 miles beyond her is the Soryu Although the Japanese defense is impressive, the box formation of the Kido Butai has completely disintegrated. Each ship is several miles away from the next, having maneuvered to avoid the American torpedo attack, crammed with planes still being rearmed and unable to take off. McClusky's American dive bombers have the crucial element of surprise. Not only that, but unknown to any in McClusky's group, another dive bomber squadron from Yorktown has arrived on scene at the same time by pure chance. Both squadrons are unaware of each other's presence, and if they did attack the same ship, there could be mid air collisions. &quot;Earl, you and I take the carrier on the left. Best, you take the carrier on the right". As luck would have it, McClusky heads for the Kaga and Akagi while the other squadron head for the distant Soryu. Although the Japanese are yet to spot the dive bombers, another problem threatens to throw away the advantage of surprise. "Wade, i'm taking the left hand. Best doesn't hear McClusky's command. Neither party hears each other. Both Best and McClusky now prepare to dive on Kaga, Best prepares his squadron. They form an echelon and the pilots prepare to dive by shifting to low blower and low prop pitch, opening their canopies in case they need to bail out. Best has no idea that right above him, McClusky and Gallaher are doing exactly the same thing. Danger mounts as the two squadrons are now on a path for collision. Best eases forward, entering a dive just as McClusky and Gallaher's swarm of Dauntlesses barrel down in front of him, missing a catastrophic collision with him and his squadron by mere yards. Best reels backwards, stunned by the pure luck of his survival. But there's no time for him to truly digest what's just happened. He assumes McClusky and Gallaher have decided to jump his target. Thinking quickly, he closes his flaps and waggles his ailerons to try and signal to the rest of his squadron to abort. But he's too late. Ten of his pilots join the cascade of dive bombers. Only Best's two wingmen, Ed Kroeger and Ensign Frederick Weber, are close enough to see his frantic signals and hold up. McClusky, Earl Gallaher, and 25 other Dauntlesses hurtle towards the Kaga. Lacking radar, the only warning the Japanese aboard the ship have is the thundering of planes as they turn their eyes skywards. "Kyukoka! Kyukoka!" The first three bombers miss, but the Kaga is plunged into chaos as orders are screamed across the deck for the men to crank every gun skyward. Earl Gallaher grips his sight, trained on the immense aircraft carrier. This has to be a hit. The ship's outline fills up his sights as he gets closer and closer. He clenches his jaw and releases. The 500 pound armour-piercing bomb hurtles towards the ship and slams squarely in the middle of the flight deck. Bomb after bomb find their marks in succession. The next comes for the Kaga's bridge. It's obliterated by a direct hit, Full of planes being rearmed and refueled, A chain reaction of catastrophic explosions rocks the ship. One carrier is down. From 12,000 feet above, Best watches the drama unfold. Single dive bombers from the American carrier Yorktown dive for another Japanese carrier, the Soryu. Hit after hit tears the Soryu apart, unleashing internal explosions that tear through the men and planes alike. The first two carriers are being pummeled, at four or five second intervals, smoke pouring into the sky. Amidst the chaos, Best carefully plans his next move. With only two pilots having remained at his side, he leads the three plane formation to bank right. Climbing back up to 14, 000 feet, Best and his wingmen prepare to make an attack run on the Akagi, admiral Nagumo's flagship. The Japanese are focused on the conflict at sea level. Yet despite holding the advantage of surprise, Best is unsure of what he can do with just three planes. He can't divide them to attack at different angles with such a small number and the dire fuel situation means he can't maneuver for a bow-on attack. Best and his wingmen must hit the ship across its relatively narrow 100-foot width rather than its 850-foot length. Even a small miscalculation could leave the bombs missing the hull. Memories of Pearl Harbor are fresh in his mind, Best is determined to give the Japanese a taste of their own medicine. He makes a decision. "Let's get them, boys!" On his signal, the planes open their flaps and ease into a long dive. "It was a calm and placid morning,&quot; he would later recall, thinking that it just felt like &quot;regular individual battle practice drill&quot;. As they near the ship, Best puts his bombsight in the middle of the Akagi's flight deck. He watches one zero fighter taxi and take off from the ship. He's determined to make it the last. Bombs soar towards the aircraft carrier, as one bomb hits the At 15,000 feet, Best and his bomb lands square As a plane levels he can't resist to look back. A chain of explosions rocks the ship, igniting a flood of aviation fuel from carts and wrecked planes. Under most circumstances, a big carrier like this could be expected to absorb four or five bomb hits and still function, but Best's one bomb has just hit in the right place, at the right moment. The Akagi has been obliterated. Having descended to low altitude, Best and his two wingmen zip through the carnage of zero fighters, who continue to target the hapless devastator torpedo bombers. Best resists the urge to dogfight: his job is to bomb the aircraft carriers. As Best turns for home leaving the devastated Kido Butai behind him, he spots a black shape looming on the horizon. His heart races and he speeds for home as fast as he can. Touching down on the Enterprise, Best sprints to the flag bridge to find Rear Admiral Raymond Spruance, commander of the American task force. On his way, he comes face to face with McClusky, who's just landed. Best notices that blood is running down McClusky's arm and dripping onto the deck. McClusky has parts of five bullets in his arm and shoulder, and before he can hear Best's news, he's rushed off to the sick bay. Best makes it to the bridge and quickly makes his case to Admiral Spruance. &quot;There are three carriers aflame and burning, But there's a fourth one up to the north. Permission to rearm and take off right away, sir?" "No. Wait for the orders. We will get them." "Yes, sir." Best has to wait several hours before he can take off again. At 2:45 pm a report comes in "Admiral, we have their position." "One carrier, two battleships, three heavy cruisers, four destroyers. Course north, speed 20 knots.&quot; The enemy ships bear 278 degrees from Task Force 16. The Americans immediately scramble what they have. The force is a shadow of its former self. Just 27 SBDs were available. With McClusky is staying behind due to his injuries, Gallaher is now in charge. leading 6 SBDS, with Best leading 4 and Lieutenant Dave Shumway in charge of 14 from Yorktown. Now it's five o'clock in the evening. They spot what remains of the Kido Butai on the darkening horizon. Gallaher orders Shumway "Shumway, you take the battleships." "Roger that." leaving him and Best's 10 aircraft to take out the Hiryu, the last of the carriers. Although the Japanese have Zeros patrolling at altitude, it's only as Gallaher eases forward and plunges into a dive that they discover the Americans. Kyukoka! Kyukoka! For a second time today, the Japanese are caught by surprise. Yet the Hiryu's guns put up an impressive resistance. Gallaher watches the fire from the anti-aircraft's muzzles light up both sides of the carrier as he fixes his bombsight. But, just as he commits to his dive angle, the Hiryu turns sharply. She's surprisingly agile for a big ship and it catches Gallaher off guard. He's already committed to the dive. He attempts to compensate by pulling up as he releases the bomb. The bomb misses a stern and Gallaher wrenches his back pulling out of the hard G's. After witnessing the next two bombs also miss the ship, Shumway decides to forget about the battleships and leads his squadron against the carrier. It's the right decision, but it throws the pilots into confusion as Shumway's group and Best's four-plane section both dive on the Hiryu at the same time. Once again, Best finds himself having to maneuver at the last moment while he's preparing to dive. Turning to come at a different angle gives the enemy zero fighters a second chance to attack. Best and his planes hold their turn He looks to his side to see bullets rake his wingman Fred Weber's aircraft. Best watches his friend hurtle towards the ocean, a wave of rage racing through him. He points his plane straight for the starboard bow. For the second time that day, Dick Best's bomb slams into a ship, striking her forward elevator and blowing part of it into Hiryu's small island. Three more bombs strike in succession, all in the same area, creating a single, massive crater in her flight deck. From high above, it looks as if a giant's hand has reached down and scooped out the Hiryu's bow section. leaving a gaping cavern in its wake. Like her sister ships, she's been wrecked beyond recovery. Dick Best prepares to return to the Enterprise in a bittersweet victory mourning the loss of Weber and glancing down to survey the devastation. In just a day, the Battle of Midway had been won. It's December 13th, 1943 in the skies over Assam and 2nd Lt Philip R. Adair is climbing quickly after being told to scramble. He spots what looks like 4 enemy planes and goes in close in his beloved Lulubelle. It's the start of an incredible engagement that will see Adair face insurmountable odds. As Adair gets closer he can see it's not 4 planes but 4 flights of 6 bombers each and they're being escorted by fighters above and below them! The other P-40s from the Burma Banshees are still taking off, but Adair can't wait around, as he realizes that over 60 Japanese planes are heading straight for his home base and the US complex there, including the hospitals. One man against that many planes means almost certain death. But he pushes that thought to the back of his mind. And he puts the throttle to full in Lulubelle and determinedly heads straight for the enemy. The following is part of a voice recording by Adair recalling the events on that day... &quot;I called up control and said: 'Look... They're gonna be releasing their bombs pretty quick and I don't know if I can do much of anything or not. I'm gonna do the best I can to mess up their attack.' &quot; The bombers were the threat and he knew that if he took one shot at the fighter he would lose the advantage of surprise; if the attack was to stand any chance of success, it had to go against the bombers first. He decided to come in from high above on the left, trying to get some shots into the lead flight at maximum range. &quot;I started firing pretty long range out because I knew all I could do was fire enough tracers across the front of them to kind of shake things up a little bit. And I could see that as soon as I started shooting they got a little nervous because the bombers were bouncing up and down and I wasn't paying attention to fighters at that time. So almost before I knew what was happening I was around behind the last flight and picked up the last bomber in there and went after his left engine.&quot; He could see hits on the engine and what looked like fire coming out of the bomber, but he overtook so quickly that he couldn't really tell what was going on. At this point the Zeros were about to attack. But Adair had an escape maneuver at the ready. Adair pushes the stick full forward into the left corner, and into a negative G, out-side roll, and a high speed dive. Eventually he pulls out and looks around. Thankfully the Zeros were going back to defending the bomber formation. While his attack rattled the bomber crews, the bombers completed their mission and released their bombs. The bomb pattern fell short and off to the side of the target area. Adair later said that even though some thought his attack contributed to the poor bombing by the Japanese, he doubted that he had made that much of an impact... He now had another choice. Should he head for home? He'd faced insurmountable odds and gotten out alive... But he couldn't let it go... It worked once. He was sure he could do it again. Climbing he got above and behind the formation. He starts another run. &quot;They looked like nobody was paying attention to me until I started getting closer to the bombers And then it looked like that every damned Zero in the sky was coming for me. And I think, well... There's no way in the world I'm gonna get close to the bombers again. I'll just try to pick off a fighter or two - so I picked out the top one and tried to get a shot at him. But he knew I was there and about the time I got in range they made it real sharp turning - he was out of my range, out of my sight real quick. So I just picked the next one and he was a little more stupid. So he waited until I got in pretty close and he had just started turning about the time I started shooting at him. Then right away I saw his left gear drop and it looked like his engine was on fire and he went into a spiral. So I pulled off the side to get away from there and watched him. And he crashed in the jungle, a short distance from there. I climbed back up again and I thought: 'Well, what the hell?! I might as well have another shot at the bombers. What a stupid jerk!' So here I go against the bombers again. And before I could get in range - there were Zeros from the left, Zeros from the right. I said: "Well I better get into my escape maneuver because I'm not going to get a shot at anybody." So as I rolled over I could look down and see a Zero coming straight up at me And right away I knew I was in trouble because he had a dead-bead on where I was going. I couldn't get out of the way. Then 'wham wham wham!'. It sounded like a bunch of gravel.&quot; Adair realizes that full stick forward did not seem to be getting him out of the line of fire. He grabs the trim crank and sets it to full nose down position giving him just a bit more additional forward angle. Tracers whizz by and Lulubelle is hit! There's an explosion behind the cockpit and fire comes shooting forward around both sides of the armor plate. Fortunately, in the high speed dive the fire goes out. Adair holds the dive with the ground rushing to meet him. As late as he dares leave it he tries to pull out. There's something wrong. The jungle gets closer and closer. It seems with the trim in full forward position the cable has been shot through and getting the plane level is a colossal effort. He yanks back on the throttle, with both hands on the stick, the jungle rushing towards him. He's finally able to get the nose up, and into the sky. With a prayer of thanks and the Zeros far behind him he heads for home. But it quickly becomes apparent that his troubles are not yet done. &quot;I got a little ways and realized that I was going to have a problem. Because it was very hard to hold that nose up above the horizon. Even using both hands! And I've tried to get to the seat belt around the stick, but it wasn't long enough. And I kept losing altitude as long as I was flying right side up. And about this time I see another airplane that is going in the opposite direction from me. And he's about a quarter mile off to my left. And I couldn't tell what it was until he got close enough And it was a Zero and he was smoking like the devil. And looked like he was losing altitude and it must have been one of the ones that I hit somewhere earlier. So I watched him and I'm sure he was watching me. I went by him on the right and he just kept going. And I thought "Oh, what the hell?!" So I hauled it around and came screaming up his rear end, get a dead bead on him, squezzed the trigger, and all I could hear was the pneumatic system recharging the guns and there wasn't any ammunition left. So I went screaming by him and they pulled over and started shooting at me. But he didn't hit me. And I got out of there and headed on back.&quot; Making his escape from the Zero, Adair realized that he was around 100 miles from home. The plane kept pulling down, so he called control with his position. He told them he was going to bail out because he couldn't keep the plane out of the jungle. He kept on nursing the plane as every 100 yards in the jungle could be as much as 2 days walking! He later said: &quot;And then I got smart. &quot;I'll just turn it upside down and see what happens So I flipped over upside down and it ran pretty good a little while. And it climbed and I got quite a bit altitude. Then the engine started cutting out again, so I flip it back right side up. And it comes back and starts running smooth. He lost count of how many times he went through this same maneuver, but eventually he made it back to his airbase. Upon final approach and upside down he released the landing gear. Flipping the plane over at the last minute Lulubelle's white rimmed wheels kissed the runway and she landed safely. It was Adairs 44th mission. He later said: "For me, mission number 44 was my most exciting. I don't know if I could stand that much excitement again, but after that, I was convinced that number 44 was my lucky number, it was also the number painted on the side of Lulubelle. Lt Adair who challenged 64 Japanese planes received the Silver Star for this action. We would very much like to thank Robin and Luke Adair, Son and Grandson of retured Col Philip Adair for their very kind help in this script and for giving us permission to use the voice and images in this film. They have an excellent website, burmabanshees.com where you can see some incredible photos from the men who were there. In honor of the Burma Banshees we've made this tribute emblazoned on 100% black cotton. Wear the legend and grab it before it flies out by clicking on the link in the description. It's the early dawn on the 10th of December, 1941. A task force of ships are off the coast of Malaya. They're hoping to launch a surprise attack against the Japanese who they think are in Kuantan. The head of the task force is the HMS Prince of Wales and its Captain, John "Jack" Leach. "Sir, Tenedos is signaling distress." "Bloody fools! We're under radio silence. This is better be good." Leach speaks urgently with Admiral Phillips. "Sir, Tenedos is under a Japanese bomber attack." It's the worst possible situation. "Get everyone ready." With horror, they need to accept that the Japanese have found them and the entirety of Task Force Z is within range. Outside, the air trembles with the engines of Japanese aircraft. They come through the clouds and line up their target. First, they go for the aging Battlecruiser HMS Repulse. The bombs are away. They scream down towards the ship. And a tall column of water erupts on the starboard side, Captain Tennant of Repulse orders, &quot;All hands to action stations!&quot; A 250-kg bomb screams down. There's an enormous explosion The Captain is thrown to the floor, The bomb has penetrated through the port seaplane hangar and devastated the armored deck below. It's a scene of carnage as the fallen Repulse emerges from the fray, with a plume of smoke coming from her upper deck "Damage report?&quot; "No critical damage!" Her speed, though, is unaffected and she steams on, emitting just the faintest smoke curl. On the Prince of Wales, Leach turns and gives an order. "Action stations!" "Repel aircraft!" More shapes emerge from the clouds. It's 67 Japanese bombers! Two squadrons separate and approach the capital ships designed to reduce the effectiveness From eight miles away, they begin their dive. Phillips's demeanor hardens as he broadcasts the order. "All ships increase speed to 25 knots." "All captains are granted freedom to maneuver." An officer hunches over his radio. "Confirm message, over." His face drops. "Sir, the aircraft to port appeared to be carrying torpedoes." "There is no such aircraft around." Phillips observes the sight through binoculars The Japanese aircraft continue to lose height and fly into some low cloud before appearing Nine Japanese planes start their approach. They see the British ship in the distance There's a flash as one by one the British anti-aircraft guns open fire. Tracers arc up towards the black dots in the sky and after 12 salvoes, the guns switch from controlled fire at individual planes to barrage fire, hurling a curtain of bursting shells desperately trying to force them to drop their torpedoes early. The Japanese planes keep coming. The loaders begin trembling as they push shells hoping that something - anything - will down just one of the planes. The British anti-aircraft gunners, however, are unprepared for the sheer speed of the Japanese planes. Most of the British anti-aircraft shells burst well behind the aircraft as they Battered but still flying, the Japanese pilots bravely push on until their torpedoes are in range. They drop. The fish are away. On the Prince of Wales, there's horror &quot;Hard-a-port&quot; attempting to slip through the tracks of the torpedoes. Meanwhile, the Japanese bombers are too large and they fly straight at the Prince of Wales, reaching the battleship well before their torpedoes do, and causing disorder on her decks, The British gunners are now firing A Betty bomber takes a flak shell to the wing, causing it to spin and dramatically slam into the water. But there's no time to celebrate. Two torpedoes move straight towards the ship, and there's no avoiding a hit. All the men aboard brace for impact. The first one strikes. A pillar of water erupts on the port side of the Prince of Wales and punches through the outer hull, Moments later, the second torpedo strikes blasting open a hole some four metres high and six metres wide. It's a critical blow! There's now a direct route for water sweeping sailors off their feet and drowning Her speed immediately starts dropping. As water floods into her, emergency pumps The sailors continue to attempt repairs, She begins listing to port. On the deck, the gunners keep shooting to the point where the air can almost burn the skin, but their rounds explode behind the Japanese planes All the sailors can do is watch, wait, hold on and hope. The tracks zip towards the ship Her electrical system at the stern suffers massive damage. Without power, both the steering motors are dead. The Prince of Wales is a sitting duck. She's now a death trap. Captain Leach orders: &quot;Flood the void spaces of the starboard torpedo defense system. We need the ship level.&quot; He needs the ship level, or almost level, so that his men can train their anti-aircraft guns, But this also makes the ship more vulnerable should she The sailors strap on any small arms they can By 12:19, the Prince of Wales is left The gunners pour water on their boiling barrels and the loaders scramble to and from the magazine, A gunner looks up, &quot;Contact, due east.&quot; A huge formation of aircraft sweep down like a cloud, losing height and once again Six Betty bombers come in low and race towards flying under the anti-aircraft fire she could offer on that side. The sailors begin firing with anything All the fire goes harmlessly above the attackers. Torpedoes drop in quick succession. The sailors watch in horror There's a hit. A jagged hole tears right through the ship as the first torpedo blows clean out through the other side, the force of the current dragging sailors under and out of the ship. The second torpedo strikes almost directly under B turret, shooting a plume of oil and water up the side of the ship. The final torpedo strikes the unarmoured section of the hull, where there is only 1-inch-thick steel. There's nothing Captain Leach can do. Meanwhile, the Repulse is putting up Captain Tennant turns his great ship readying his vessel to pass through the tracks The torpedoes drop, and as they run in the water Captain Tennant brings all his seamanship to bear of every one of the torpedoes dropped as well as the others coming from the attack on Each member of the bridge holds on as the ship leans and The crew speak later with pride And how the huge ship had been thrown about like a destroyer. Incredibly, he also avoids all the bombs from high-level But at 12:20 on the Prince of Wales, Phillips is left with no option. Reluctantly, he orders his radio signals to break radio to come to the aid of the Prince of Wales and the Repulse. At 12:23, the remaining 20 or so torpedo bombers almost simultaneously pounce on Repulse Her main guns keep firing against the incoming enemy. The 15-inch shells fly straight into the water, hoping to create a splash powerful enough But the Repulse crew is out of luck today. The first eight aircraft drop Captain Tennant turns Repulse to But then the three aircraft attack Repulse on her port side. Captain Tennant can do no more than continue his turn to starboard to avoid the first eight torpedoes. The deckhands and gunners keep up as much fire as they can, but they know it will make little difference. Men fall to the floor and cover their heads. A torpedo hits Repulse on midships on the port side. But does little significant damage. She continues manoeuvring and steams at 25 knots. Tennant is not going to stop. &quot;Set a new heading for...&quot; He never finishes his sentence, as a torpedo hits. Immediately, nine aircraft attack Repulse from different angles. Six planes attempt to work their way round to her starboard side, while the remaining three Betty Bombers It's a skillfully executed attack. Repulse's engines are still fully functioning, but with her rudder jammed, Back on the Repulse, the gunners don't know what to do. &quot;Tell the bridge we can't get a good view &quot;Enemy incoming!&quot; The three Betty Bombers fly forward, seemingly unfazed and they drop their torpedoes in a slow sequence, And they continue their course, strafing the deck &quot;'Ave this!!!&quot; A Betty ignites and spins rapidly out Shortly after, a gunner leveling his weapon sends a shell straight through the cockpit, and the Japanese aircraft explodes in mid-air. It is a small consolation. Two explosions tear through the lower decks, immediately causing catastrophic flooding and Repulse lists to port, and looks done for. But the Japanese are not finished yet. At 12:25, the other six torpedo-bombers skim the waves The men on deck watch helplessly before scattering for cover. All six planes release their torpedoes at once. The wait is agonising. Two rudimentary shots ring from but the torpedoes are still coming. There's silence. A rating puts his head over the rail. He's rocked by a pummelling explosion. Even though five missed, Over the last four to five minutes, Repulse had been hit Very quickly, the list to port starts to increase, All 51 of the Japanese torpedo bombers But only eight of the 34 high-level bombers had done so. Two squadrons of high-level bombers and each plane carries a single, huge, 500-kg bomb. At 12:33 pm, the first nine of these bombers But their bombs are released too early and fail to find their target, missing by a considerable distance. Repulse, with multiple large holes in her hull, The other ships from Task Force Z Captain Tennant orders: &quot;All hands to the main deck. Not one man had left his place of duty But now, dozens of men pour up through the hatches from below, or scramble down ladders from stations high in the superstructure. The crew start jumping over the side As the ship lists further, and start to slide down the huge raised Hundreds of men get away in minutes. However, below decks, many loudspeakers are not working, and the men don't hear the order to abandon ship. As she continues rolling over to port, emerge out of the water, and the stern rears up The stern then slips below the waves and disappears, leaving her bow hanging in the air, before it too vanishes beneath the waves. Just 11 minutes after the first torpedo had struck her, Captain Tennant fights his way There's another attack. The Japanese are still not done. A 500-kg bomb hits the Prince of Wales, By 12:50 pm, the end is nigh for the Prince of Wales. She's taken on an estimated 18,000 tonnes of water. Captain Leach orders all the wounded to leave the ship. "This is the end." "No." He leaves the bridge and comes down to the quarterdeck, where a large group of his crew had congregated. "Gentlemen, she's been badly riddled. We need If you go, that's fine. But let's help our old girl out one last time, eh?" There's a slight hesitation. Surely the ship is sinking. They haven't got a hope A silence follows before A petty officer and several other ratings also step forward, salute, and fall in behind Leach. Captain Leach smiles and declares an order to those present. "Aside from gunners, marines and officers, God save the King." He then climbs back up to the bridge Hundreds of men started crossing over to Express But as the Prince of Wales rolls further over onto her port side, and her starboard side lifts, The gangplanks fall into the sea, and the cable that still join the two ships. Under the incredible strain, the cable finally snaps. The list to port starts to worsen. It was clear the ship was now beyond any help Leach comes to the realisation that his ship's not going anywhere, and reluctantly gives the order. "Abandon ship." The battleship's starboard bilge keel rises. The skipper of Express skilfully judges the last moment her hull bumping and grinding on the battleship's heaving keel, and almost getting overturned herself. The destroyer suffers a 20-ft gash in her hull from the contact, but many men have been saved. Admiral Sir Tom Phillips remains on the bridge almost to the end, he and Captain Leach silent, contemplating their defeat. The last reports, seeing them alive, are at 13:24, when the two men are on the side of the horizontal ship. Just before she rolls over, and capsizes. The destroyer Electra sent a simple signal to headquarters in Singapore - "H.M.S. PRINCE OF WALES Sunk". Tragically, in 2023 the Malaysian coastguard seized a Chinese ship on suspicion of looting the wrecks. The Chinese dredger Chuan Hong 68 was detained. On board were found shells suspected to be It's April 18th, 1943 and a squadron of P-38s races low over the waves of the Pacific. In the formation, 1st Lieutenant Rex Barber struggles under the oppressive heat of the cockpit, but he soldiers on, aware that they're on the hunt for the highest profile target of their careers. Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, the man who orchestrated Pearl Harbor, who flaunted that he'll negotiate peace at the White House. The American squadron presses on, the shore of Bougainville coming into view. Rex Barber scans the skies. Intelligence had been very specific. One Betty Bomber and two flights of three Zeros. Right here. Right at this time. Their plan is simple and calculated. Twelve Lightnings are going to climb high and cover them from above. While remaining P-38s, a four-men killer group, will focus entirely on the bomber with the target. They almost reach Bougainville when the radio signal comes in. "Bogeys! Eleven o'clock high!" As if on cue, an enemy formation emerges between the clouds. Six Zeros, however, not one, but two Betty Bombers. American pilots are taken aback. Their plan is falling apart. "Which one of them is Yamamoto's?" "We'll have to take them both." The formation slams their throttles to fall, charging into battle. All around Barber, 12 of his squad mates climb rapidly into the sky, taking position as top cover and leaving the four chosen to perform the daring charge. But there's more problems. First Lieutenant Besby Holmes' drop tanks aren't coming off. "Give me a second! I'll tear my tanks off!" Barber is nervous to see Holmes dive out of formation, picking up speed to shake off the tanks. "Ray, go with him!" Wingman Raymond Hine quickly follows to protect him, cutting the killers' flight numbers in half. Their chances are worse than ever. They have double the targets and half the fighters. Yamamoto is right in front of them. Hell would freeze over before the American pilots let him go. Yamamoto is on his way to visit one of their four operating airfields around Bougainville with eight of his officers and among them is his second in command, loyal chief of staff, Matome Ugaki. Ugaki is dozing off in his seat when unexpectedly one of their Zero escorts races past and slows right in front of his Betty's nose, shaking his wings. Confused, Ugaki takes a closer look and realizes the pilot is waving his hand, frenetically pointing at something. Then suddenly the radio operator shouts for the pilot to dive and the Betty breaks into an abrupt evasive maneuver. The officers all hang on for dear life as the Japanese bomber plunges into a desperate dive. Ugaki is trying and failing to spot Yamamoto's aircraft. Outside, three Zeros die for the pair of incoming P-38s, desperate to stop the attack. Lamphier breaks formation, climbing to attack the Japanese fighters head-on and leaving Barber to charge in alone. Lamphier opens fire and the Zeros respond in kind, with tracers crisscrossing in the sky. Lamphier is unfazed as low-caliber guns strike him in the wings, the sounds reverberating through the fuselage like hail. He holds the trigger down, unleashing his weapons until the Zeros are forced to pull off from the collision course. Barber, though, carries on, leaving the melee behind. Before him the two Betties separate in opposite directions. He picks one at random and gives chase. But he's not alone. Suddenly, a tracer streaks past just in front of his cockpit. A Zero from Lamphier's fight has The tracers continue to zip past his windshield. He fights the urge to pull away and aims his sights square on the bomber. Barber pulls the trigger... and unleashes a hail of 50 caliber and 20 millimeter fire. The shells rip through the enemy aircraft, parts fall away from the engine cowling and a plume of oil pours out of the machine. But Barber is relentless. He holds the trigger down, even as he hears and feels his own aircraft being hit from behind. He'll have to take this bomber even if it's the last thing he ever does. But then the Zero hounding him roars past, giving him a few vital moments of reprieve. Barber takes a better aim and continues dismantling the bomber, tearing it apart as he chases it all the way down to tree top height. Then, suddenly, the bomber pulls up out of control and rolls in the air. Barber immediately dodges, barely missing the bomber's wing as it tumbles out of control and crashes into a tree below, exploding into a massive fireball. Barber looks back over his shoulder to see a column of black &quot;It's down, what's next?&quot; He sets off for the next one. But three more Zeros intercept him from above. They open fire and Barber dodges, diving away for speed as he listens to the enemy bullets, striking the wings and tail, the crackle of impacts echoing through the fuselage. Barber skims the treetops, dodging left and right in a desperate fight for survival. The three enemies are refusing to ease up. But just as things get dire, he spots the two P-38s of Holmes and Hine up ahead. There's hope. He flies towards them, praying for them to see him. To his luck, his prayers are answered. The pair of Lightnings turn straight towards him, charging into the rescue. But muzzle flashes shine on their noses. His heart sinks. Time slows to a crawl as the friendly tracers barrel down straight towards him. He holds his aircraft steady and the shells streak by all around him. He's surrounded by lead. Shots from allies and enemy enveloping his machine. The Lightnings come closer and closer, guns blazing, until they roar past overhead, and, suddenly, the skies fall to an abrupt calm. Barber looks back, shaken. All the aircraft are gone. The P-38s are speeding off and the Zeroes have been scattered by the two Lightnings' daring attack. He takes a deep breath and sets off for the last Betty. Holmes and Hine turn back around after saving Barber's tail. The shot had been risky, but it had worked, and now they chase after the last remaining bomber. Holmes hunts it down as it tries to escape, skimming the waves out to sea. Holmes opens fire, dumping as much ammunition as he can into the massive target. But the aircraft stubbornly remains aloft as it fills more and more of his windshield. &quot;Go down or blow up, dammit!&quot; He keeps up the attack for as long as he dare. Before dodging low, sending his P-38 roaring through the gap between the enemy and the sea. Rex Barber watches his squadmate narrowly avoid collision with a severely wounded Betty, but then he quickly realises that the target is still flying. He dives in without skipping a beat and gets right on the bomber's tail and pulls the trigger. His volley strikes the fuel tank and detonates the fumes. The bomber is engulfed in flames and plunges into the sea. Barber has no time to react and he flies straight into the explosion with flames surrounding his aircraft. But he emerges on the other side, unharmed. He can't celebrate just yet. Right ahead he sees Holmes and Hine tangling with a pair of Zeros. Hine's P38 is littered with lead and dives away with heavy damage, while one of the Zeros is taken out by Holmes. Barber crashes into the fight, catching the last Zero unaware and gunning him out of the sky. "How's your subscribe level?" "Very low! Help us out here!" "If everyone subscribed, then that would be the mission accomplished." Then, finally, the squadron leader comes through on the radio. "Everyone, get your ass home." But while a jubilant squadron returns to base, a figure emerges from the sea surrounded by the flaming wreck of his aircraft. It's Matomi Ugaki, badly injured, but alive. The pilot also miraculously survived, and together the two men both swam back to shore, clinging on to a piece of debris. A third survivor would also be picked up by flying boat after the accident, becoming the only three crew from the bombers to return home. Yamamoto had been in the first bomber. He was killed by Barber's gunfire before the aircraft even crashed. His body was found and he was buried. His loss inflicted a heavy emotional wound for the Japanese. The widely respected Admiral was mourned across the nation. He was given a full state funeral with the highest of honors which crowds gathered to attend. Very few were affected harder than Ugaki, who never forgave himself for surviving the attack. He would write about the events in his diary, recalling, &quot;Tracers flashed by our wings and the pilot frantically maneuvered to evade. I waited impatiently for the airplane to return to horizontal position so that I could observe the Admiral's bomber. Although I hoped for the best, I knew only too well what the fate of the airplane would be.&quot; The P-38's nose seemed to burst into twinkling flame and suddenly the bomber shook from the impact of the enemy's machine gun bullets and cannon shells. Everything turned black. I felt the crushing force of salt water pouring into the fuselage and almost immediately we were below the surface.&quot; Ugaki continued to serve in the navy for the rest of the war, until the Emperor declared the end of hostilities on the 15th of August, 1945. Indignant, that same day he dressed in his officer's clothes, took a ceremonial sword gifted to him by Yamamoto and set off in the last kamikaze attack of the war. Ugaki before his final kamikaze mission. On the American side, the death of Yamamoto was received with great fanfare, but not all was celebration. Tragically, First Lieutenant Raymond Hine would never make it home. His crippled P-38 gave out underneath him somewhere in the return flight. Every member of the flight would be given the Navy Cross for their involvement in the attack. Rex Barber would survive the war and return home, passing away on July 26th, 2001. It's just past midnight on November 13th, 1942. An American task force sails through the dark Rear Admiral Daniel Judson Callaghan stands aboard He's in command of a rag-tag fleet, cobbled together But they can't dwell on their condition, for the United States one and only airfield in the entire The lives of thousands of Marines, and perhaps the Just a few dozen miles away, two beasts They are the battlecruisers IJN Hiei and Kirishima, each over 3 times the size of the biggest American cruisers and sporting guns almost twice the calibre, Aboard the Hiei, Admiral Hiroaki Abe examines his maps. "Prepare for bombardment!" But just as the guns are loaded, "Sir, rear guard ships report enemy contact up ahead." Admiral Abe is taken aback. That makes no sense, And how have his screening destroyers not seen them? Someone must be completely out of position! "Contact the ships and give me their location!" Back in the American fleet, Callaghan knows there's a Japanese fleet out there. They should be somewhere to port, An aide calls for his attention: "Sir, USS Cushing reports an enemy up ahead!" Callaghan goes wide eyed. "Tell Cushing to stand by to open fire!" Aboard the USS Cushing, "Sir, Callaghan orders to stand by to open fire!" But disaster strikes. Instead of standing by to fire, the captain of the Cushing orders Behind the Cushing, Commanding Officer and is surprised to see the Cushing stopping! The Laffey slows. But then the ship behind the Laffey is also forced to stop, The front of the formation becomes a slow motion trainwreck as one by one the captains slow to avoid a collision, The 5th ship in line, the cruiser USS Atlanta, realizes far too late. And barrels straight towards the back of the other ships, "We're going to hit!" USS Atlanta turns away from their line, But then things go from bad to worse. "Sir! Contact to the East! USS Cushing "How do we slot back in?" Contacts are appearing from everywhere! Back with the Japanese, everything is in chaos. They battle to switch the and load a replacement Meanwhile the captains across Abe is receiving constant updates, although with the heavy squall he's not exactly sure where his ships are. But it's imperative The ships Hiei and Akatsuki are ordered The chaos in the American ranks is suddenly ended when two ships pierce the dark and illuminate the Soon after the thunder of guns breaks the night silence, Atlanta firing blind into the light sources and soon receiving enemy fire in return. Turrets up and down the American line unleash their firepower shooting everything they've got at the two lights. They can't see the enemy, so they choose their target at random, not realizing the Desperate, Callaghan orders, "Odd ships fire to starboard, Confusion spreads across the ranks, some to aim towards suspected targets while the others disregard the order and fire Meanwhile, USS Atlanta is stuck in the middle of the crossfire, unknowingly firing at the smaller IJN Akatsuki. But despite their visual blindness, the radar targeting helps nail the enemy vessel, pummeling it But it's not without a price. Shell after shell strikes her hull. On the other side of the battle, USS San Francisco fires its next salvo, just as Atlanta wanders into the line of fire. The San Francisco shells strike square in to the bridge The Atlanta floats adrift They fire shot after shot at the burning Akatsuki, the gunners are determined to fight to the bitter end. And then, the fires find their way to the Akatsuki's magazine. The ship detonates into a massive explosion, The shock wave washes over the battlefield. Admiral Abe is shocked by Akatsuki's violent Its searchlight is extinguished only illuminated by the flames of burning ships. Commanding Officer William Hank of the USS Laffey directs his men as Callaghan "Ship off the port bow!" It's the battlecruiser Hiei. It's a monster and they're on a collision course. "Dear Lord... Gunners open fire! But the shells from the 5-inch guns The USS Cushing joins in on the attack, also doing little as the Hiei pushes on its "310! Full flank ahead! Emergency power!" The Laffey accelerates, going as Hank braces for impact. He looks up at the Battlecruiser as they sail "Keep firing! Keep firing!" The American ships keep shooting the shells piercing At the bridge, Admiral Abe He's focused on strategizing the battle when suddenly, a shell punches clean through the bridge armor, firing a cone of shrapnel across the Admiral Abe steadies himself from the shock. He's bleeding and in pain, Despite this, the crew of the Laffey see the Hiei's giant guns turn ominously Desperate, Hank takes a gamble. "Fire the torpedoes!" They shoot off the American lives are hinging on the 8 But the Laffey is far The USS Laffey's hopes Please support the channel, The Japanese battlecruiser Hank sees the giant shots fly over his The shells detonate and annihilate the The enemy destroyers reappear from the shadows, surrounding and opening "Sir! More contacts to starboard! Hank knows it's all over. "Abandon ship!" On the opposite side of Admiral Callaghan sets his He ordered his own cruiser, the USS San Francisco, San Francisco opens fire with an and piercing through the weakest bands of But Hiei is far from done. The massive weapons turn around Eight 1,485 lb incendiary shells fly across the sky, with spectacular explosions, "Damage report!" More explosions rock the ship, but do little. Hiei's ammunition is still the wrong type. It didn't matter against the small destroyers, it makes a world of difference. "Keep firing! Take out those guns!" San Francisco and Portland keep putting One of their salvos strikes at the Hiei's stern, But then, Hiei's hoists run out of incendiary shells. Next up is proper Armor Piercing ammunition. Hiei's next shot punches burying deep within and detonating inside, Radio cuts out and reports of Another brutal impact strikes San Francisco, Hiei's next volley impacts The devastation is absolute. No one is spared. Callaghan and most of But then a lone man picks himself up. Communications officer Bruce McCandless rises In an incredible display of sheer raw determination, he stammers over to the captain's radio and takes it over. He has no command experience whatsoever. His position doesn't even feature on Just from what he's learned watching guiding the crippled cruiser and her crew out of danger. But not out of the battle. McCandless has the presence of mind would cause panic and a rout, Instead, he identifies a relatively safe position Then suddenly, Damage Control rushing to take But there he finds Without exchanging a word, Back at the Hiei, Admiral Abe is tended He's cut and beaten. With his ship crippled and on The Japanese ships retreat. Among them is the fleet's second battlecruiser, the IJN Kirishima. But the battle has become such a disorganized brawl They're left behind The battle drags on, ending in a whimper. By sunrise, wrecked ships lay Hundreds of sailors from both IJN Hiei would later be sunk by By the end of the day, the Japanese lost a The Americans suffered even greater, losing Abe would survive the sinking of the Hiei, but would be heavily criticized as snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. If only they had pressed on. Tactically, the Americans claimed victory as they successfully kept Henderson Field intact, But while the battle was The fight for Henderson It's 4:30am on April 16th, 1945. The battle of Okinawa. A sailor struggles to keep awake in the destroyer the USS Laffey. The radar pings in front of him and multiple enemy contacts appear. The man snaps awake and sounds the alarm. A siren blares and across the ship sailors run for their positions. Commander F. Julian Becton bursts into the bridge demanding updates. "Multiple contacts, closest 20 miles out... but it's turning away again.&quot; Becton's adrenaline immediately wears off, and the gathered officers groan with various levels of frustration. The Japanese have been doing this the whole night, poking into their radars just enough to get them to act and then leave. "It's on purpose. They're trying to keep us tired for an attack." Silence reigns over the bridge. No one lets it show, but they are all afraid. They're acting as a radar station, right in the path between mainland Japan and the ongoing operations in Okinawa. The Laffey is the first thing every Japanese fighter, bomber, and kamikaze sees on their way to battle. Multiple ships trying to man this post have been hit by kamikazes, suffering heavy casualties. "Keep the men on station, rotate them as needed. We can't afford to take an eye off the sky." Backup flies above their heads, it's three divisions of F4U Corsairs, nicknamed the "Grim Reapers". These warriors of the sky are the first line of defense. But at 7:30am things start to go wrong. Reapers, do you copy? Reapers, do you copy? Contact with the Corsairs is lost. Becton is horrified: without air cover they suddenly find themselves extremely vulnerable. "Huge enemy formation. They are coming from the north!" Becton takes one look at the screen, and his blood runs cold. He would later write &quot;That screen had so many dots on it that it looked at times like an advanced case of chickenpox.&quot; "Everyone to battle stations! Engine, give us everything you got! Where are the Corsairs?" "The Corsairs still aren't responding, sir." A sense of doom washes over him. They are alone. Alarms blare across the ship and men are sent running for their posts. From the formation six kamikazes peel off to hunt Laffey, starting in a slow circle. Fom a distance two make their move and pounce. &quot;Targets, sir, 11 miles out, closing fast.&quot; "Flanking speed!" "9 miles out." &quot;Stand by for main battery.&quot; Outside everything stands still. Men have their eyes locked on the sky, gripping the firing button as they listen to the distant rumble of engines getting closer. "7 miles!" At the last moment Becton decides he's moving to the flying bridge. &quot;Let's draft some lead on these motherf...&quot; &quot;Fire!&quot; He's just in time to witness the powerful BOOM of Laffey's 5-inch main guns. The sky is littered with flak as the first pair of kamikazes dive in off the ship's bow. The brave Japanese pilot is leading the charge through puffs of flak. But it's for nothing as a full 5-inch shell impacts the Japanese aircraft square on the nose, violently disintegrating it into a ball of flame. A second Japanese plane charges through the smoke of the fallen. The 40mm guns open up, shredding the plane as it speeds ever closer. But it doesn't fall. It enters the range of the 20mms and they too join in. The entirety of Laffey is pouring out lead as fast as they can until the enemy aircraft finally rips apart until it smashes into the sea 3,000 yards away. But there's no time to celebrate as seconds later two more Japanese planes appear off the stern, flying at wavetop height. The Laffey's 5-inch guns take aim at the incoming enemies and open fire. The depressed weapons are barely clearing the 20mm gun emplacements in their way. The crew of the anti-aircraft gun take cover as they are hit with the muzzle blast. Becton orders a turn, trying to bring more guns to bear as the enemy gets ever closer. The Japanese pilot is just seconds from impact when a shell rips off its wing and sends it tumbling into the sea. The fourth plane also attempts the daring charge, braving the exploding shells and storm of lead. The Americans fire with all they have and the enemy stubbornly presses on, desperate to take as many Americans down with him as he can. Laffey punishes the enemy. The plane cartwills across the sea before sinking beneath the waves. &quot;Yeah! Got it!&quot; &quot;But there's another one!&quot; But they're still not done. The last two of the six aircraft charge to the attack, one from port and one from starboard. Most guns turn to starboard and open fire, but meanwhile the portside plane pushes through with lesser resistance, rapidly accelerating towards the ship. The starboard plane is torn to pieces, falling from the sky as flaming confetti. But the Americans have ignored the second enemy for too long. He opens fire with machine guns, strafing the Laffey and inflicting significant casualties on the exposed sailors. The guns rush to fire at the last plane as it careens down towards the ship. A wall of shells meets him in return. But nothing can stop gravity and the flying wreck is coming straight for the ship. Sailors seeing the incoming plane flee for their lives, shouting and running while the rest of the ship's guns open fire to the bitter end. Becton screams to turn the rudder hard to starboard in a desperate attempt to evade the enemy. The wreck slams into the sea with a soul shaking explosion, its bomb detonating and sending a wave of shrapnel across the deck. But miraculously, the ship survives. The sky falls into an eerie calm. Enemies still linger in the distance, but none pounce. The crew takes the moment to drag the wounded to the infirmary and compose themselves, having just enough time to get a drink of water and for the reality of their situation to sink in. After 7 eternal minutes of suspense, another enemy turns for Laffey. Becton turns the ship to give the incoming plane his broadside, allowing all his guns to unleash upon the enemy. The Val evades left and right, attempting to aim straight for Laffey's bridge. Becton can see the enemy's aim clear as day and orders evasive maneuvers of their own. &quot;Rudder to port!&quot; The enemy races in, but he's aimed poorly, and he is forced to abort and turns away still under fire. But once clear he determinedly dives in for the Laffey's bridge one more time. Becton voices an endless stream of orders: &quot;Rudder to port!&quot;, &quot;Head on!&quot;, &quot;To starboard!&quot;. It's a high-stakes game of cat and mouse as he desperately hides the bridge from the Val's flight path again and again, the aircraft, somehow, is still flying despite numerous hits. Aboard the ship, the Gun Captain leads his 5-inch turret from the hatch atop the mount when one of the barrels stops working. &quot;What's happened?&quot; &quot;It's stuck! It won't elevate!&quot; Cursing his luck and without time for a proper repair, the captain jumps off the mount, takes a hammer, and slams the base of the barrel. Meanwhile in the air, the pilot can feel his own aircraft falling apart underneath him, and in desperation he gives up chasing for the bridge. He turns straight for the main part of the ship and dives in. The guns zero in on him, shredding his Val as one of the Laffey's turrets fills his windshield. The aircraft zips in and crashes on top of the gun, and destroying the hatch the Gun Captain had been just two seconds ago. The wreck and a flood of flaming gasoline fly over his head, the Val flying off into the sea as the deck is engulfed in flames. The gun captain and other nearby men rush to get the flames under control. Becton watches the scene unfold, but then he hears the shouts of a lookout. &quot;Contact to port! Coming in fast!&quot; His heart sinks, he's been too focused on starboard. He orders the 5-inch guns to turn towards the new threat, but it's far too late and can't turn in time. 40mm guns open up on the enemy, the fate of the entire ship is on their shoulders. And in the most crucial moment thus far, they excel. The enemy fighter detonates in mid-air and falls into the sea just two hundred yards away. The gunners cheer, but the nightmare is far from over. "Where on Earth are the damn Grim Reapers? The radio is still screwed!" Then the 9th Japanese plane appears, skimming the waves on the port side. determined to crash into the Laffey. Damaged 5-inch guns are unable to attack. The 40mm guns open fire, nicking and striking the enemy, but it still flies and enters the range of the 20mm guns. They join in on the defense, but the enemy powers through. Fear grips the men's souls as they realize with dread this one is not going to fall. Inside the Japanese plane the pilot sees the ship fill his windshield. He closes his eyes. He never feels the impact The Japanese plane crashes into the superstructure behind a 40mm gun. Its wing is ripped off, flaming fuel sprays across the deck. The rest of the airframe falls off the starboard side and its bomb detonates in the water. But some AA guns have been engulfed in flames, and the crates of ammunition start to cook off. One by one the shells explode with loud bangs, glowing hot shrapnel flinging off in every which way. In that section of the Laffey firefighting becomes the only priority. Brave men rush to contain the flames, saving the Laffey from catastrophic explosion. But the guns are still crippled. Another Japanese plane appears from the rear, guns on the very stern open fire, but with so many weapons in the aft out of commission now their volume of fire isn't enough. And the Val smashes into the stern, devastating the interior. The stern of Laffey is now a burning inferno, and without defenses it's also the easiest place to strike. Another plane sweeps in, but this time it drops its bomb into the stern. The explosion takes out the ship's rudder and breaches the hull, locking it on a 26 degree turn to port. Laffey is now stuck in a perpetual circle, Becton no longer has enough control to evade more attacks, but more attacks come. There's a huge number of enemies in the sky, so many he can't even count them. Becton watches as two aircraft peel off the circling swarm and dive in to the attack. He orders the ship to flank speed, it's the only thing he can do, and it's not enough. The few guns in the stern open fire on the first incoming plane, but they are not enough and the plane slams into the ship almost unimpeded. Dozens of sailors fall and deadly fires spread. The second follows soon after, but its bomb fails to explode and clatters across the deck. A group of sailors manage to pick it up and throw it overboard. The swarm continues to circle, waiting for their turn. Somehow the ship remains afloat, but Becton knows it's a hopeless battle. Laffey needs a miracle. &quot;Corsairs! They are back!&quot; A flight of American fighters charges into the scene immediately cutting down four of the circling kamikazes and turning them into streaks of fire. The Grim Reapers are here. In the air the swarm of aircraft scatters in every direction and a battle breaks out in the skies. But it's hardly a dogfight, it's a slaughter. The undertrained pilots in their obsolete aircraft are no match for the American fighters, and they go down in flames one after the other. If you enjoy this video, we'd really appreciate your subscription. And you can join us on Discord. Thank you! But Laffey isn't out of the woods yet. In desperation several Japanese make a turn for the destroyer, determined to take the ship down with them. The first dives in with a Corsair hot on its tail. The Laffey gunners open fire but miss out of fear of hitting their ally... Becton watches the Ki-43 with horror as it comes barreling towards him. He drops to the floor and the two aircraft both roar overhead. Both fighters clip the Laffey's mast. Just above his head, the Japanese plane spins and crashes into the sea, while the Corsair pulls up into the air and the pilot incredibly bails out. In the process the American flag from the mast drops onto the deck. Signalman 2nd class Thomas B. McCarthy instantly told a sailor nearby &quot;We've gotta get that back up there." In the middle of combat, McCarthy retrieves the fallen flag and climbs the mast. Becton spots him climbing, but doesn't interrupt, returning to command while McCarthy mounts the flag high on a cable for all the sailors to see. &quot;Yeah! Got it!&quot; &quot;Good job!&quot; Four more Japanese kamikazes charge in one by one, and the gunners take them all down by the skin of their teeth. One of them is getting close as 50 yards before slamming into the sea. Becton is impressed by his men's gunnery. &quot;Captain, we're in pretty bad shape aft, do you think we'll have to abandon ship?&quot; Becton doesn't have to think it over, after so much courage by his men, so many heroics, it would be a crime to let her sink. "Hell no. We still have guns that can shoot." A bomber sweeps in and drops his ordinance into the Laffey's battered stern, then another bomber charges straight for the bridge. An officer sees it coming and tackles Becton to the floor moments before a volley of bullets rips through the structure. The bomber roars overhead, but immediately after it's caught up by a Corsair and cut down from the sky. Then another bomber comes in from the port bow with two Corsairs in hot pursuit, doing all the damage they can until it's hit in the ammunition and explodes right above the sailor's head. What's left of the bomber crashes into the waves. Then, suddenly, there's silence. After 80 minutes of hell, everything fell quiet. The crew can barely believe it, Becton asks himself why would the enemy let up when they were so close. But then he looks up to see 24 allied Corsairs and Wildcats covering them, and not a single Japanese in sight. Still, the ship was left a burning wreck, and Becton feared that after everything they would have to abandon it. But they managed to keep the ship that wouldn't die afloat. The attack tragically claimed 33 of the 336 men crew, with 70 more injured. The Grim Reapers scored 33 victories during the defense. Incredibly, the ship that was attacked by 22 kamikazes and would not die is still afloat. You can visit the USS Laffey at Patriots Point Naval Museum, South Carolina. It's the early morning of October 25th, 1944, near the strait of San Bernardino, in the Philippines. Lieutenant Commander Robert Witcher Copeland is having his morning coffee at the bridge of USS Samuel B. Roberts after a sleepless night patrolling the waters. They are part of Taffy 3, a carrier group made out of 6 escort carriers, 3 Fletcher-class destroyers, and 5 Butler-class escort destroyers like his own. Their mission is to provide air support to the landings of Leyte Gulf, which leaves the Destroyers in a simple bodyguard and patrol role. It's shaping up as an uneventful task. That is until he receives a radio transmission warning him of surface radar contacts heading their way. Copeland doesn't even have time to take any action before one of his lookouts reports "Object on the horizon, Sir!" "Everyone to battle stations!" He orders without skipping a beat. Trouble lays ahead. In the distance the Center Force of the Imperial Japanese Navy pushes into battle. It's made out of 11 destroyers, 2 light cruisers, 6 heavy cruisers, 3 battleships, and in the middle of them all is the biggest warship to ever grace the seas, the pride of the Imperial Navy, the Yamato. The Commander of Taffy 3 immediately directs the carrier group to move east in haste and lay down smoke. Aircraft take off from the carriers and engage. The planes throw everything they can at the Japanese: bombs, torpedoes, depth charges as well as strafing runs. But the Japanese force is just too vast and the planes run out of ammunition and are forced to withdraw to rearm and refuel. Copeland relays the order, and the men activate the chemical smoke generators as well as overload the boilers with fuel, causing the vessel to billow black smoke out of the smokestack. As they do Copeland spots massive colorful splashes rising up from the waves, the Japanese are firing their first ranging shots. The rest of the destroyers mirror the USS Roberts, quickly deploying a vast wall of black and white smoke in front of the carriers as they continue their run East, heading straight for an isolated storm. The splashes get closer and closer as the Japanese gunners zero in on their target, threatening to strike at any second. But to the Americans' fortune they reach a rain squall and visibility drops drastically, the torrent of rain and the smokescreen combine to hide the vulnerable ships from the Japanese. The bombardment continues though but with limited visibility it becomes inaccurate and slows to a crawl, giving the fleet precious time to regroup and prepare. Copeland is still coordinating the release of smoke when he receives a transmission from the Commander. All destroyers are ordered to attack with torpedoes. Copeland swiftly asks if the commander wants Butler-class and Fletcher-class to attack simultaneously. The response comes back negative, the Fletcher-class are to go in first. The Fletcher-class ships push out into battle. Copeland is left waiting, listening to the thunder of guns through the mist and smog. The wait is torturous. He thinks to himself, "My God, how are we going to work this?" Contemplating the dangers ahead he gets on the loudspeaker and tells the crew, &quot;This will be a fight against overwhelming odds from which survival cannot be expected. We will do what damage we can.&quot; The Fletchers complete the attack run and race away into the relative safety of the smokescreen, receiving strike after strike from the enemy fleet. Amidst the chaos the second attack run isn't organized, and the Butler-class destroyers hesitate as to when to start. But Copeland doesn't wait, he slams the EOT to full power and the ship charges into battle. He sails straight into the enemy at 20 knots. He identifies the heavy cruiser Chokai as the first big target near by, almost in ideal position for torpedo attack and orders to go straight for it. Enemy shells begin falling around him, but they push on fearlessly. Amidst the hellfire he radios Lieutenant Trowbridge, the engineering officer, and tells him "Lucky! As soon as we fire our fish I will ring up flank speed and you give me everything you got!" The shelling intensifies, geysers of seawater lift into the sky all around them, some striking mere yards away. A shell impacts the ship's mast and the debris rains down upon the deck, a metal beam strikes the torpedo launcher, jamming it. Copeland is warned, but fortunately the launcher is already aiming overboard. Already committed to the run, he eyeballs a new attack approach to account for the angle of the launchers and keeps going. Shells continue to pummel the seas surrounding him, but they too miss by sheer luck. Coming in hot 4,000 yards away from Chokai, Copeland orders "Fire!" and the three torpedoes dive into the seas. The fish are away. The ship immediately turns to escape and Copeland slams the EOT to flanking speed. Below deck Trowbridge bypasses every safety measure, the boiler pressure rockets past its design limit and the ship accelerates to a blistering 28 knots. "She cannot take much more, captain!" Behind them the HIJMS Chokai is rocked by an explosion as one of the torpedoes hits its mark. But they have no time to celebrate as other ships keep up their rain of shells. They keep running with all they have, zigzagging through a storm of high explosives. In the middle of it all Copeland sees an allied destroyer, torn to pieces, limping along. The captain is standing on her stern, bloodied and hurt, still commanding the ship by shouting orders down a hatch to the engine room below. The Captain gives Copeland a friendly wave as they sail by in the midst of battle. Copeland returns to a devastating scene, nearly the entire fleet has suffered heavy damage, yet they still fight. Copeland radios his gunners and orders to open fire upon the nearest enemy, the Cruiser Chikuma. The 5-inch weapons fire upon the cruiser. They are pitiful compared to the firepower wielded by the Japanese, but the gunners are determined to make it count. They fire round after round into the exposed superstructure of the Chikuma, all the while dodging 8-inch fire themselves. Inside turret No. 2 the Gunner's Mate Third Class Paul Henry Carr fires anything and everything that comes up the ammunition hoist, Armor Piercing, High Explosive, AA Proximity Fuse, even smoke and Starshells used for lighting up battlefields at night. A similar scene takes place in turret No. 1 as the little destroyer tears through the superstructure of the Chikuma, their accurate fire disables an 8-inch turret and the Starshells light fires all across the deck. The fight drags on for 45 minutes during which the gunners fire nearly all of the 5-inch ammunition stored on board. But then a lookout shouts inside the bridge, "Captain! 14-inch splashes behind us!" Copeland looks back just in time to see the massive water geysers lifting up into the sky inches away from their stern. He runs for the EOT and pulls it to full reverse, the ship's hull shudders under the stress as it grinds to an abrupt halt. They even begin reversing when Copeland hears a loud "whoosh" of shells streaking overhead and sees them slam into the waters in front. Having dodged them he pushes the EOT back to full flank ahead, but it's too late. An 8-inch salvo impacts the warship. A shell pierces the engine room and bursts the steam pipes of one of the two boilers, another one hits below the waterline, and a third takes out all power and communications. The ship is wounded, and the Japanese can tell. The 14-inch main guns of Battleship HIJMS Kongo take aim and fire. The 1400 pound shells smash into the vessel, tearing a huge hole under the waterline. Copeland orders abandon ship. The destroyer sinks as her gunners stubbornly continue to fire. An explosion rocks the insides of turret No. 2, the barrel and breach are now so hot that it has prematurely detonated the shell's powder charge. A crewmember enters the turret and finds Carr against the wall, heavily wounded, shell in hand. The crewmember tries to help, but Carr only begs him for help loading one more shell into the breach, not realizing the gun was inoperable. Back at the bridge Copeland has no more control, no power or communications: there is nothing he can do. He abandons the bridge alongside 1st Officer Lloyd Gurnett as shells still fall around and into the dying ship. The pair run to the very bow of the vessel as it rises into the air, and spot a life raft floating below. They jump. The burning USS Samuel B.Roberts remains afloat for one more hour until it finally capsizes and sinks under the waves, taking with her 90 of the 210-man crew. The Japanese attack was repelled by the unprepared carrier fleet at the end of the day, thwarting their attempts to intervene in the Leyte invasion and sinking 3 heavy cruisers, including Chokai and Chikuma. But the allied fleet suffered greatly. 2 carriers and 3 destroyers were sunk and the rest sustained heavy damage. The chaos of the aftermath delayed the rescue, men weren't picked up from the sea until 24 hours after the battle had ended, some spending up to 50 hours floating adrift. Engineering Officer Lieutenant Herbert W. Trowbridge and Gunner's Mate 3rd Class Paul Carr died in the encounter, they would both be posthumously awarded the Silver Star for their final brave acts and Carr would have a guided missile frigate named in his honor. Lieutenant Commander Robert Witcher Copeland was rescued from the water alongside his crew, he would be awarded the Navy Cross for his actions and a frigate was named in his honor. He survived the war and resumed his law career back home. He passed away in his home city of Tacoma, Washington on August 25, 1973, aged 62. It's the 5th of March, 1944. In the Pacific, US fighter aces are jockeying for position, trying to be the first American pilot to beat the victory count of a record that has stood since WW1. Eddy Rickenbacker's 26 victories has never been beaten. Neel Kearby currently has 21 victories and he's got his eye on Rickenbacker's record. Neel is in his P-47 Thunderbolt, the "Fiery Ginger IV", named after his wife, Virginia. Many considered the Thunderbolt inferior to the nimble Japanese planes. But in the hands of Kearby and his pilots, its excellent diving capability and 8 .50 cal machine guns prove to be a deadly combination. The newer P-38s and P-51s are replacing the aging Thunderbolts. Kearby knows, if he can beat the 26 victory record then the resulting press coverage could save his beloved P-47 to the end of the war at least. With the competition fierce and the record about to be beaten by other American pilots, he's pulled together a fighter sweep with 2 of his friends, Bill Dunham and Sam Blair. Climbing to 22,000 feet they head along the coast of Papua New Guinea. Far below them they see a Kawasaki Ki-61 coming in to land at a Japanese airfield. They decide to let this Flying Swallow escape as it's about to land safely and they're best staying high for more accessible prey. They need to be patient... Within 5 minutes they've spotted 3 bombers coming in at 500 feet above the sea&quot; Ki-48s or 'Lily' bombers. While these were bombers, they were fast and could loop and turn when operated by a skilled pilot. Kearby, Dunham and Blair decide to attack. The P-47 had amazing diving ability. Building up energy while diving gave them the momentum to quickly climb back up to altitude for another diving pass. A technique that was to become known as &quot;Boom and Zoom&quot;. This struck fear into the Japanese as the attacks came with little warning and the Thunderbolt's eight .50-cal machine guns were able to wreak havoc on the lightly built Japanese aircraft. The 3 men each targeted a bomber, surprising the Japanese with the incredible firepower of 24 machine guns going off at once. Dunham and Blair shoot down the Japanese bombers that they targeted. However, Kearby despite peppering the Lily doesn't manage to down it immediately. Neel Kearby's own rules of combat in the P-47 were to never lose speed and altitude when in a fight. But with the bomber still flying he made a fatal error: to make a complete circle and attack again to be sure it was downed. All this meant a loss of speed at low altitude. Finishing off the Ki-48 Kearby found himself 'Low and Slow'. A dangerous place in a P-47. A lone Ki-43 Oscar spotted Kearby while he was slowly climbing, came in close and filled Kearby's P-47 with lead. Bill Dunham had spotted the danger and was racing to help his friend. Speeding down to help, Dunham took out the Oscar but it was too late. Searching for Kearby over land and sea, Dunham and Blair eventually were running low on fuel and had to give up the search. The two men landed back at base. Bill tried to get his plane refueled and head back out to immediately start the search... but with darkness about to fall it was no use. In the end he had to be physically restrained by the others from going out again. 9 months later Bill Dunham was flying his P-47D over the Philippine sea. After spotting and downing a Ki-43 Oscar, and pulling up he saw a Japanese pilot escape the wreck and bail out. The Japanese frequently shot at the American pilots who had bailed out. Bill pulled the P-47 around and lined up on the enemy slowly descending in the parachute. Bill later told his family: "It was if the Lord put his hand on my shoulder and said Bill, don't do it.&quot; Breaking off the attack, Bill spotted the pilot bobbing in the waves below. Putting his plane into a shallow dive and risking his own life he went down low over the waves. Opening his canopy he aimed for the Japanese pilot... and threw his Mae West lifejacket out of the plane to assist the stricken airman. A painting of this event called "Uncommon Chivalry" hangs in the Seattle Museum of Flight. Kearby's remains were found in the jungle in 1948 by an Australian Air Force search team. In speaking with the villagers, it became apparent that Neel had bailed out successfully, but had received bullet wounds either in the aircraft or on his descent by parachute. In the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force you can see a recreation of Kearby's plane featuring part of the wreck of the original which was found in the 1990s. Thank you for staying until the end. Let us know in the comments if you made all the way here. &quot;If only they knew about the Battle of Midway from our perspective...&quot; &quot;Yes, they should really watch this film.&quot;