Ah yes, the video has been released. Time to do something else. (SLAM) Alright, fuck this. Well there's gotta be something else to do! Ok that's boring. No it can't! Heh. Yeah, I already did a video on this though. Ohhhh, right. Eh, later. Hey, now this I can get behind! Uhh... Eww! (throws DVD case across the desk) So the year is 1996, and you want a program to write programs. But you realize very quickly, that there is a very large problem with that. All of these programs are basically expensive notepad. And all of the real magic is done in the language beyond your comprehention, because you have a smooth small brain. Wait no that's me, you get the idea... But after some digging, you find it. An IDE, &quot;That doesn't require speaking the language of the Gods to operate.&quot; Or, well, as much anyways. And it's called: Microsoft Visual Basic! (THUD) Or something else, which I don't know- My first operating system was literally Windows XP. Anyways, hi I'm Snoopie! And today, we're gonna be having a look at this... Not so boxed copy of Microsoft Visual Basic: Professional Edition! Which includes a copy of Windows NT Workstation 4.0. I don't know about you, but that last thing sounds more interesting to me, so let's have a look shall we? Subtitle writer here. Have you joined the Discord server yet? You should if you haven't yet. :3 Anyways, back to the video! Nya~ Sorry, I had to put my programming socks on- Uh eh- No you can't see them! Alright let's just get this fucking box open. So as you can probably tell, this is far from unopen, but I still think the contents will be... fairly interesting to have a look at. Mostly because it's, it's Visual Basic. You know, a lot of people don't like, look at this as the sort of thing you would... pay for? So it's really interesting to see it... In a box. The fact it comes with an operating system is really strange to me, because it's like- Who is this for? Is it for someone who bought a computer but it doesn't have an operating system on it? Or with, an operating system so bloody old that you can't run this on it? I- I don't know! But- Uhh- Yeah, let's just, get this open and have a look at it I guess. Pull this out- Ooh cardboard! And fuck I opened it the wron- So open up this bit of cardboard here- And as we can see, we have our copy of Windows NT right on top. Uhh. I- I assume it would have been like this if you were opening it for the first time. Umm... Again, this isn't new. So as we can see here, we have our copy of Windows NT Workstation. That has, already been, helpfully opened for us... So, I don't have to use a knife- to open it, so that's cool. I shouldn't be trusted with a knife... Seriously that's upsidedo- The rest of it is upside- The copy of Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition. I haven't seen that... Chromatic BackOffice logo before. That's pretty cool. Then we've got, Mastering Microsoft Visual Basic 5.0. Which is... If I were to guess, a DVD? Wow, ok this is two color- Look at that! Ok that's cool. Nice. (CD jewel case noises) So we got that- Definitely will need that, because I- I don't know- My brain is very basic, I need studying to learn how to use Visual Basic. Yeah we just got a fucking copy of MSDN. Got a cop- Oh wow, ok. Look at that! Ok this is cool, you see- That's how Microsoft used to do their discs. And it's really cool looking, where it's like, two colors, you got black- You got grey, and then you got this blue here- Ok that's cool! Yeah, ok- So this is like project files and stuff if I were to guess? I'm not totally sure though- I'll have to find out. We got the boot-up floppies for Windows NT, just in case your computer is so neolithic you can't boot off CDs. Um, I doubt we'll have to use these, but we might just use them anyways because it's cool? So, ya know. And here we have this. Which appears to be... A catalog of stuff you can buy- Now that you've bought Microsoft Visual Basic, they wanna sell you more things! Wise installer- Is it like InstallShield? I think it is? Or Wise installation system might be different from InstallShield. I don't know what I'm talking about... Want the address of the most important person at Microsoft? Oh hell yeah! I guess I could just check Twitter, right? So do we. You're our most important partner. Aww, at least someone thinks so. :3 Are they charging for manuals? What the fuck do they mean documentation? Oh free set, ok so it comes with additional... Manuals, you just have to send this in to get it- I guess that makes sense they didn't want to- In case you don't need it or don't wanna use it. Send today for your free issue! I wonder if this will still work... Whh- Look at that fucking graphics design! Wow... Look, the inside of it is just two colors. Hmm. Exploit Internet Explorer 3.0? Why are you telling me how to do that? Notice: Important Changes to Standard No-Charge Support OK? I guess this important if you wanna like, call for support- I bet it's just different phone numbers and stuff. Oh, priority support fee. Oh boy... You have to pay to get faster support for the thing you already paid for. Got it! Here's the EULA. I accept. And here we have the manual for Microsoft Visual Basic. A HUGE ass, fucking paper manual, for Visual Basic. Ok uh, we're definitely gonna need that, because again, smooth small brain. And here we have, the manual for Windows NT Workstation. If I had a dollar for every Windows NT manual I have, I would have $2. Which I mean, is not a lot, but it is strange that I have two of them. So, that's cool. This one's in uh- A little worse for wear though, but- Ya know. I do have the disc- Don't ask where I got these! (testing disc case noises against the carboard) I see Microsoft has a favorite. So now that we have the software, now we just need the hardware. So let's look at the box. Pentium or higher processor recommended. Well! That's what this computer's got! But before we use it, we need to make some adjustments. I hate this case... I hate this case... I hate this case... (loud PWANG as side panel hits floor) So the first thing we need to do is downgrade the hard drive. The reason for that is because Windows NT really really really doesn't like big drives. In fact it doesn't like it so much, it won't even let us partition it. So we need to put in a different, smaller one. And besides, this has like my Windows 98 install on it. So I don't wanna, erase that... Get this shit out of here! (hard drive clangs as it's pulled out) And now we're going to be replacing it with this! A lovely example of a Western Digital 75AA (double A). Fun Fact: This isn't one of the first times this has been on the channel- Some of you might remember- I'm- Kidding, nobody fucking remembers... About five years ago, I took a drive just like this one, and I filled it with water. (sad waterlogged HDD clicking noises) Yeah, 2016 Windows G hit different... But uh, yeah! So after, that, I remember how nice a drive it was. Before I filled it with water... And I got this one! Which is uh, new and not filled with water! So we're gonna... Put this in there and it will work! Good, hopefully. Make sure it's set to master. UwU~ ^-^ Ssss- Gonna... Plug it in- Oh God... (Snoopie testing drive movability) And it's in! Good enough! Now we need to remove some cards, because if I don't, Windows NT is gonna throw a piss fit, because there's alien fucking technology in here! Fucking WiFi card... WiReLesS InTErnEt? WhAt ARe yOu on CRacK? Still can't believe that worked! You should watch the video where this was a thing. Alright now we need to extricate the sound card. (pulls card out of slot) Because we're gonna try this again, the cursed fucking ethernet adapter- Which last time didn't work. But! I tried it in a different computer, and it worked fucking fine! So we're gonna try it in here, because there's no fucking reason on this Earth! That this card shouldn't work! I mean it has NT graphics so we're gonna give it a shot. Put this bad boi in there! Nya nya nya nya nya nya~ Nya nya nya nya nya nya~ Nya! Nya! And it's in! Just gotta hope it's actually detected this time! (loud case side panel noises interrupting Snoopie) I swear to God if I cut myself on this piece of shit... (more loud side panel noises) Oh my Goddddd! (slightly more aggressive side panel noises) (BANG BANG) (DUN DUN) (CRASH) Hey, that was actually relatively painless! What's this? An (unintelligable) on the case? Who knew! You only get one screw though. And the sun is gone. Perfect time for screen recording! Alright, let's see if this shit still works. (chonky power switch click) (drive whirs to life) (BEEP) That drive sounds so nice... ^-^ It's a Caviar, so it's like sort of quiet- But there's a little bit of tinging to it when it's accessed. It's- I'm rating drives like it's fucking wine! What am I? Goddamn it... And as we can see, there is no strange operating system left on the strange hard drive, which means we can begin- Our Windows installation experience, which we'll begin, (drops installation CD) with the floppy disks because I- Like pain! Got these lovely grey Microsoft floppies. They're so cool. It's the first time! (click from floppy disk being inserted) Ah that felt good. (quick control-alt-delte) (floppy disk seeking noises) Nice. Of course master, UwU~ (giggles) I feel like it would have been the exact same thing off of the CD but faster, so that's cool. The sound of it though... Mmh! So good! Keyboard d-driver?! You need drivers for the fucking keyboard? Are you ok there Windows? Oh my God... One system processor, and 256MBs of RAM. Multi-processor kernel. Part of one of the big things of Windows NT was actually multi-processor, or simulataneous multi-processing support. Which means, if you had more than one CPU, or more than one core, Windows could actually take advantage of it- Because unlike DOS, Windows NT is multi-threaded. So, yeah that's cool. Uhh, it detects floppy controllers, standard blah blah blah- Eghugh- Ok. That seems good. Oh. I got dis don't worry about it! (chunky floppy disk clunk) Ok well you found the IDE controller, now I just gotta- Hope... There's... A hard disk on it. Uh, yeah it is blank. Um, so, C. And, put in the CD-ROM! Holy fucking shit this disc looks good! Look at that there- It's got the Windows logo- A little bit white- You put that in there. Oh my Gaahhhhhhh- Yep, I- I read it, just really quickly. The above list matches my computer. Uh-huh. Oh ok, here we go! So, despite the fact that this is a 7GB drive, or 7.1... 7.2 (GBs). -gigabyte drive. Windows NT 4.0 works very strangely in how it makes Windows NT (NTFS) partition(s). Nowadays you might know if you wanna make a Windows NT (NTFS) drive, or format something as Windows NT, (Snoopie, think before you talk!) it can be whatever size you want. But we can't do that here, because the way Windows NT 4.0 does it, is it first makes a FAT partition. A FAT, 16 partition, and then converts it into an NTFS partition- Which means if we select, the full 8GBs, it'll complain about it, being too big. So we actually need to do, is uh, delete that. And need to create a partition and make it... Uhh, 4096? I think would be about... 4GBs? 4096! Which is as big as FAT16 can be. Pretty sure... Ok, and it's cool with it! So uh, yeah. It can boot off of a drive up to 8GB in size, but it can't make drives more than 4GBs in size! So how exactly you're supposed to expand the- This- Without Linux or Windows enclosure powered intervention. I- have no fucking clue. But, it doesn't matter, we're not gonna use more than 4 anyways. You- You're not gonna n-notice if I take this, right? Can just take this? You're not gonna- You're not gonna screech at me or anything? Oookay... Setup installs Windows NT files onto your hard disk! Choose the location where you want these files to be installed. Win... Nya~ Oh, cool, it's working! This portion of Setup has completed successfully! If there's a floppy disk in there, remove it! Also remove any compact disc from your CD-ROM drive? Alright well, if you say so. (sad CD drive eject noises) Euugh let's get this shit out of here... Windows NT Workstation Version 4.0! One system processor and 256 MBs of memory! And it's gone. And it's back. So this is now converting &quot;THE&quot; FAT partition into NTFS! So uh, yeah! Converting filesystem, there we go! So that's why 4GBs is our max. It boot- It rebooted again. Okayyyyyyy... Oh Goddddd! Ahhhh, right, so! Fun thing about Windows NT 4.0, is it was released in 1996. Pretty sure... Which means the setup process and the OS itself, is more Windows 95, than it is Windows 98. Hot Take: Honestly the Windows 95 setup and the Windows NT setup is, vastly superior to the Windows 98, and Windows ME, and Windows XP setups. But. Y'know, that's just me. I love that gradient... That looks so nice! It's like, Windows Afterdark or something. Preparing for installation! So we're going to want uh, custom, and we're gonna select everything. Uh, name is uh, Snoopie. Organization is... Doing your mom. (BEEP BEEP) Whoop? What? Oh. Uhh... Pfft. (giggles) It won't automatically move you to the next column? Good God. Next! Computer name. Uhh... (cheap yet satisfying soft sounding rubber dome keyboard noises) I don't know! UwU~ There we go, that's fucking amazing. Let's give it a password. Uhh, it's a very creative password! Uhh, hmm. Just because I'm curious what that does, I think I'm gonna do that. Is one of these discs blank? Probablyyyyyyy? Naw, lemme get a different one. (SMACK) Pretty sure this is blank. So gonna put that in here. (smashes enter key with excitement) Uhh... (confused mouse clicks) Ok then. (Sigh) Ok, I guess we're gonna do it later. (more satisfying keyboard noises) Nice. Space needed by setup, 21MBs! You see how big 4GBs (gigs) is? GMT my ass... (giggles) Ok, uh, can I have a little bit more pixels please? Can I uhm... (makes random noises) Oookay. Yeah that looks good! Yeah that's- That's good. You know, wouldn't it be cool if like Windows NT had like setup music? Or like, ya know, Windows at all had setup music- Could you imagine like sitting here setting up Windows NT, and you just have- (relaxing Windows XP sounding ambient music) Going on in the background? That'd be so good. Like, that should be a thing. You notice how all of these have an underscore at the end of the file type? I bet that's because they don't want you pissing around with them. Such a shame. So, funny thing about that. (hits space bar) Yeah that is- That is, actual hardware- Screen dimming, that is actually pretty incredible. Uhh... D- Are y- No! No I- No I do not want to cancel! Guhhh! Okay. So that's what spacebar did. Oops. But I want to touch them! Label a floppy disk 'Emergency Repair Disk' and insert it into drive A:. (another chunky floppy disk clunk) Select ok when the disk is in the dri- Ok. Really going to town on that disk... How Windows 3.0! Click the restart the computer button. Don't boot from the CD! Dang it! (CD drive ejects depressingly) Give. Luckily I've got a button for this. (soft power button click) (CD drive goes back in happily) Alright, Windows NT Workstation Version 4.0! Press control-alt-delete to log in. Don't mind if I do! (hits random key) 420. (We miss you Druaga1) No God no now you know my password! No! Uhh gh no- Now I do, thank you Windows, very cool. So here we go in our brand new Windows NT 4.0 installation. Oh my God... (double clicks with mouse) And there is... No- No more resolution. Alright, let's see what we got going on in the fucking device manager. Where device manager go... Oh, devices maybe? Oh dear... Umm, this is gonna be funnnnn! (bass heavy music with catboys going Nya~) Welcome bitches, bros, and non-binary hoes! (clears throat) Nya~ Hey smokers, femboy Druaga1 here! Wait shit, it's the middle of the fucking video... So yeah, I might have been sick for a couple of days, um but I'm good now don't worry about it my voice normally sounds like this, don't ask any questions. My bloodstream is entirely Robitussin. Anyways let's get some drivers installed, shall we? As we can see, the screen is currently small and sad. I wish I could say same, but I am 6'2. I'm just sad, but anyways, let's... Do that... Funny, I burned these two as CD-RW, but then it turns this drive can actually read CD-RWs, so that was a waste of time and write cycles. So that was fun... I still don't get how these things can be rewritable after they're discolored after you write them. How are you supposed to do that exactly? I don't know... Here's it on an actual CD, so I'ma put this in there. Being wasteful as usual. Give it a moment, give it a moment, give it a moment... Give it a moment. Hey there we go! Nice. It's supposed to be EP, but I mispelled it. Ok, so um... That- How Windows 95 of you. Oh... God... Come on just let me open the CD drive! Come on now! Umm... How did that crash it? I just opened the C drive. What the fuck? (confused mouse clicks) Am I- Am I not allowed to do- What is going on- What? Wow, doesn't that look familiar! Wow ok... Huh... I just wanted to see the C drive! Oh there it is. Now the whole compu- Woah. Why is it hitching so bad? Ok that's... Interesting. Sorry if it seems like I'm being an idiot here, but there should really be a documents folder, right? Media, profiles, repair, system, system32, Config, Cursors, Fon- There's nothing in here that would- Alright then, I guess we're putting it on the desktop! So on here we have the drivers for the network card, and drivers for the... Graphics adapter and also a copy of FileZilla. My thought is if we get the network adapter working, we should be able to transfer any additional files we need, using FileZilla and FTP, instead of burning fucking CDs. So... And there also might be something else that I'll try out later. What is going on?! I was just moving a fff- What the fuck?! (more confused mouse clicks) I'm trying to move these window- It's a fresh install, and the system is hitching like nuts! Okay! How interesting! Let's put that there. Ok- Oh, Explorer is just dead. Umm... Oh! Not responding! (clicking mouse in futility of closing unresponsive programs) You're gonna auto restart that, right? Uhh. Pffflt. Woah... (more futile mouse clicks) Woah. Oh what? Let's- (click) Restart the computer. Oh no... (clicks mouse in defeat) Uhh, ok, let's hope that's not gonna happen again... Like I'm not being dense, I know it's Windows NT on a fucking- Pentium, but Windows 98 ran much better. And there wasn't any of that weird hitching. I think that was just a... Genuine... Problem. I don't know what was causing that. Like, at all. That was weird. Maybe it'll improve with graphics drivers, but I'm not so sure. I guess we'll have to find out... We're also running a very early version, so, ya know. Ok. Alright, let's try that again. Ahh, you notice how the folder goes away with the animation sometimes? That's cute, I like that. (short timelapse music) Holy fuck. What are you doing? Let me, eject the CD? Aaaouuukay? Lemme clean it a little bit and put it in. Maybe it'll, puke itself less. (soft clunk as CD drive closes) Ok finally, much better. Ok so we need, the ethernet drivers, the Voodoo 3 2000 drivers, and we need Filezilla- So I'm gonna take these, and drag them in here. It's thinkin' about it. The drive is no longer spun up. Oh my... What the ffffffuuuuuuuuuuuu- Does this have command prompt? Is the... Ohh... Ffffuck. (soft keyboard typing) Uh huh... I thought this was gonan be the easy part! Brah. Lie down baby aren't you back now- What a nice sounding hard drive though. So crunchy. :3 (double mouse click) Okay. So. This time, Not gonna touch explorer. Instead we're gonna do this the old fashioned way. If I can drag this in there... Oaah! Thank FUCK! Ok, cool. Hummm- Ooh, very nice. CD- Oh ok, wouldn't be that lucky. No deasp yeah- It's overwritting. Fuuuuuck! Oh so there it is! Ahh it's in the profiles folder! The system cannot find- What do you mean? Oh God... Who thought this was gonna be the hard part? I certainly didn't! The request could not be performed, because of an IO device error! Alright well, there are other ways we can do this. This is so cheating... (CLICK) Ugh, there we go. (metal chassis noise) To make it less cheating, I'll use my ThinkPad 600. Ok so check this shit right? This thing actually can read CD-RWs, so if I open this case- Fucking hate these jewel cases... (loudly struggling to open the CD jewel case) Put- This in here. (clicks CD into spindle and slots the drive closed) As you can see, it works fucking fine! I don't know what the problem is with that. But anyways, now I can plug my external enclosure into my lovely one USB port. Turn it on. (CLACK) (drive spins up with car noises in the background) Ahh yes, there we go. Nice. You know I think Windows 2000 is really underrated. This is my favorite version of Windows. So there's Local Disk E:. Go in here, and as we can see, there's our Windows... Nya~ folder. :3 And what do you know, it fucking works! (forcefully rips out drive) (case clangs as drive is being put in) (forcefully CLANGS) (struggles to put side panel back on) (DING) (fails to slide on panel again) This fuckin' piece of shit! (forcefully pushes power button) (drives whir up) Hey it still works! Nice. This fuckin' nuclear codes or some- INACCESSIBLE_BOOT_DEVI- Holy fucking shit! What happened?! Is this drive failing before my fucking eyes? Or what's going on here? (giggles in denial) That's a pretty big problem! Are you shitting me? What did I do?! What the fuck? What did I doooo?! What did I do? What did I do?! Alright well I guess I'm speedrunning the Windows NT installation, hold on to your ass crack give me 45 minutes. Ok so it wasn't quite 45 minutes, but it was still a pretty long ass time to be fixing something so stupid. So, it turns out, there are different versions of NTFS. And, whenever you take a drive that is one version of NTFS and you plug it in a newer computer, with a newer Windows version, and newer version of NTFS, it forcefully upgrades the old drive to that new version of NTFS. So when I took this NTFS 4.0 drive? And plugged it into Windows 2000, it then converted it to NTFS 5.0, which Windows NT Service Pack 1 has no idea what to do with. So now you might be thinking, well how are you gonna get the files on there then? And well, the answer was quite simple. The drive is FAT now. Try and fuck THAT up. Or, don't. Please... Uh, thanks. So instead of taking the drive out, and uh, putting the files on it that way, Since it's now FAT, that does mean I can actually uh, use my DOS boot disk. Mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm...... Well, shit. Unless it just decides to work this time, that would be cool. Yeah so I'm gonna take that as a no. Oh my Gooooooooo- Windows 2000 found a way to fuck this up too, I swear to God. The bootloader still loads, so that's a- Genuine first start. Thank FUCK. Ok now we can- N-now let's see if the files are there. It didn't make it worse, that's good. We've got the UwU folder. Oh my Goddddd! Ughhhhhh... Okay. So now that our 4 hour long detour is over, we can now begin to install the graphics drivers. (unintelligable word) Fffffuck! Okay. So, let's start with the graphics driver. So as we can see here, there is an executable and a folder. The reason for that is because I figured out that this is basically just a self extractor. So I extracted it first on my main computer, and this is the extraction. So now let's run setup and see how it works! Look at that graphic... It's so smooshed! And... 16 colors. Yeeeeessss. Oh my God, it's working! Ok so let's, restart the computer. That was quick! Like that was really really quick. Oh my God, colors! Look at- Colors! Colorssssss! Colorssssssssss! Ah fucking- Admittedly I knew that was gonna be the easy part. Umm. Oh... kay. Well, we have appeared to have lost all of the resolution Woooaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhh! Holy shit! Ok, so, not auto detecting the maxium screen resolution. That's interesting. Umm... Woah. Now isn't that a shock compared to how it was? So now for the fun part... Ethernet drivers. So, let's see here, PRO200WL. I don't think this has an installer, which is gonna make it fun... Networking, networking, networking, networking, networking... Who's got the networking? Oh, internet! Ohhhh kay... Umm, no. Port, network! That sounds better! Yessss! Look at those graphics! Ah man! Ok, that's cool! So, wired to the network. Going to uh, start search. I don't think it's gonna find it, but- Ok, so, select from list. All we need to do is have disk. Select the disk. Uh n-no! Umm... Let's see if this will work. So if I take this, move it from this folder and drag it in here... No! (soft, slightly clicky sounding keyboard noises) Ummmmm... Oh! Ok! C:\Ethernet- (more soft, slightly clicky keyboard noises) Hey, there we go! (clicks mouse in excitement) TCP/IP network. NetBIOS Interf- Ok so that's just the stuff it's installing. Windows needs to copy some NT files. Wait- Uh like, from what disk? I mean I have the Windows NT Workstation disk, do you just need that? Or... Uhh well I guess I could do that. (CD eject noises) Well- Ok alright I got it! No! Gawd. Co- E- Connection type, AutoSense? Uhh, oh! Should I- Plug it in? I'm gonna..... Plug it in. Plug this shit in here! Where the fuck is the port? Where- Ow. (satisfying click) Ugh... It is now plugged into the internet! Uhh.... Ddddddd- Yessss. Woahhhh! Huh huh! Nice. The Lust Ring? I forgot I did that! OK that's fine! Yeah that's fine. System must be restarted. OK that sounds fine! Go ahead! Ha- Have fun with that! I'm gonna take this disc out of this drive so it doesn't boot off of it. (sad CD eject noises) I will be very surprised if this manages to work! Like, very very surprised if this manages to work. Welcome to Windows NT! You can stop showing me this now! I know how to use the fucking start menu! It has an IP address! Uhh, what- Woah- Oh wait, what? Seriously, it has an IP- Wait, did that just work? (stunned silence) Pfft- Oh this- This is gonna be fun! Ok so, Google.com! (hits enter in excitement) Oh my God! It looks like shit but it works! Let's go to FrogFind, see if that works! Now wherever it- I don't remember the URL, so I'm just gonna put it in. This is ok, this is fine. (CLICK) Hey, look at that! Nice! Where- What- Umm- Search for um... S- Estrogen. (ASMR typing noises) (trans-girl fueled enter smash) Nice! Got these... Lovely articles on... Estrogen here. Very very nice. Cool. So! Huh... So now that we have all this lovely screen resolution, let's fix the desktop! Because yes, there is something very wrong with it. Luckily I've got the fix right here! (fails to insert disk for comedic relief) (schwoooom CLINK) So fun thing about Windows NT and Windows 95, is that, as far as desktop backgrounds go, you can't actually use, JPEGs, or PNGs. You can only use, Bitmaps. And since bitmaps are really fucking big, there had to be some sacrifices made to quality. Besides, I think we've used this desktop background a bit much recently. And while yes I do like this one, especially for thumbnails, This one is my favorite! Because with a little adjustment, we can make it into anything we want! Like... Uhh, n-no! Not that! (Pootis Engage //EXTREME starts playing) Ok that's better. And now we can begin our audio/visual dive into Microsoft, Visual Basic! Fucking... Finally! What is it like, halfway through the video? 40 minutes in, we're only now getting into what the title is about. Maybe I am catboy Druaga1. Oh my God the disc is fucking burgundy! Microsoft, if you keep pulling this shit, I'm gonna revoke your text shadow privileges! Alright, so let's install Visual Basic 5.0! Oh look at how fancy this one- It has four numbers in the beginning. Now- Ok so this one automatically changes column. I get it. Fucking 9999 kilobytes. Bloody brilliant. You see how big 4GBs (gigs) is? (Woah, Deja Vu) Register today! I mean I guess we could do that. Here let's see... Your chance to win a free trip to Hawaii or Florida? Bruh, people go there willingly? At risk of being sent to Florida, I will not be filling out the registration card. Let's restart Windows, shall we? Hope this CD isn't bootable... I totally didn't image this install, so if I fuck up I don't have to install it again- That didn't happen. What are you doing? Why does winlogon.exe need a disk? Oh God, it's trying to load the background off the fucking floppy disk! Alright, give me a second. Crunchy. UwU :3 I might be sick, but I can still UwU! So let's go to programs, and then Visual Basic, and launch Microsoft Visual Basic. Nice. Uhhhhhhhhhhhhh... So I appear to have found a problem. I don't know how to use Visual Basic. Alright, gimme like, 20 minutes. (brick slide transition) Ok so it was more like an hour, but I have something to show now. So with the help of, &quot;The Manual&quot;, and the in built (you mean built-in?) sample projects, I finally have something to show you! So Visual Basic works using a system of forms, windows, objects, and events. (BZZZZZT) This is the form, that's the window. These are objects. And, these are events! Or, more accurately, those are, events. So yeah, as it turns out, Visual Basic isn't really that... Basic! I mean it certainly is, compared to other contemporary IDEs, like this which I'm definitely not qualified to demo. But there is still some code writing involved. It's not just drag and drop. So I glossed over the manual and looked in the code here, and figured out how it works, most of the way, and wrote this! Which is a normal calculator, but with a couple of adjustments. Which I'd like to make one more. Since I'd just like to show how easy it is to do this. The equals button is really small when you put it there, so I'ma think uh... I think it'd be better like- Like that. There you go. You- It's easier to click now. That's- That's good. So now if we run this application, here's our calculator! This isn't fully compiled, it's running inside of Visual Basic, but that does mean we can still use it. So if we take three, and then, add it to three and then press equal, it is six! There are, of course, some other adjustments which I have made. For instance, if we do, nine, and then plus, and then nine, and then equal, we get uh, Cirno. Because it- it's nine. Get it? Anyway... But there's one other thing I did, right? There used to be a protection for dividing by zero, but I removed it. But before we... Try that, I think we should probably compile it properly. To make calc.exe, save it on the desktop, and- I don't know how long this will take. Alright, well I guess that answered that question. Now we can run our calculator. (rapid clicks) Oh my God it's amazing... Ok, so, if we do this, and then this, and then uh... Oh. Cirno is still working. Now, I think that this isn't going to work. Because, if we remember, in the code, it's just running, Visual Basic's codes', multiply operator? So I'm thinking there might be, some divide by zero protection, built into, the language itself? But, I could be wrong, and I'm hoping I am because that would be funny. Nine. Divided by... Zero... Equals... Run-time error... Aw that sucks! I thought it was gonna work too! Well I guess it was worth a shot. I wonder if that EXE we made runs on modern versions. Hmm... (floppy disk noises) The icon shows up, that's a good start, but please don't be 16 bit... Uhh, hmm, can we find that? I can try! I definitely didn't download a strange DLL off the internet. Mmm, definitely no- Oh my fucking God! Woah, look at that! So if I do, nine, plus nine- Nice! Oh my God it works on Windows 10! (happily giggling) Uh, nine divided by zero. Ugh, no! No, fuckin'- Ugh... Nine, divided by zero- (Windows Exclamation sound) Aww! That still doesn't work. That's a shame. Alright let's see what's going on with MSDN. Y'know, put in the fuckin' MSDN CD! (CD jewel case noises) Hate these jewel cases, get the fuck- (CRACK) Gotta- Oh I can eject it from here? Wow, just like a Mac! Don't worry, I put it back... (CD jewel case noises) Microsoft Developer Network Library - Visual Studio '97! I have the Visual Basic. Is that- Is that gonna work? Oh ok, so I guess we need a new Internet Explorer, huh. It's weird to me how like, Windows versions from this time need some arbitrary version of Internet Explorer. Like- I don't get it. What are you doing with the web browser? Yes. Nice to hear there's an angry swarm of bees in my computer! That's working great! This is already taking longer than Visual Basic. Oh my God... It's all CPU usage? Just transferring files from the CD to the hard disk? Oh my God! (giggles in confusion) Fucking finally! Well if the installation's done, why is the CPU still being pinned to the wall and pegged? I guess it doesn't really matter, it's got a TDP of like, .2 watts anyway, so it's not like- Gonna overheat or anything. That would be ridiculous. Oh wow, ok! Woah... What is this?! Ok, Dr. GUI, huh? Please tell me your secrets! Remember, he's not a real doctor. What the fuck? They saved Nigel's brain. Dear GUI, I've been trying to get your sample Control Panel applications like MFC to run under Windows NT 3.51. The samples (as shipped with the Developer Network article)- Article? Wait a minute... This is about to be really cool, isn't it? This is like a whole ass website in here! I mean this is MSDN, I guess I should have known, but- Say, t-technical articles... Uhh, BackOffice! Yeah let's read about BackOffice! BackOffice articles. (clicks around in interest) SQL Server articles. A Crash Course in Upgrading Microsoft Access Databases to a Client/Server System! Okay! This just got cool! What is- Wwwwwhat...? New Database RAINMAKER... Oh my... Woah! I changed my mind, this isn't silly, this is cool! They put the magazine on the CD! Bro! That's cool! They're like- It's like a sampler CD, but- The magazine is on the sampler CD. Get it? Ah man, ok! This is... Cool! I- Didn't know what this was really. I thought it was just sample code, but no, it's like articles too! Ok, I am pleasantly surprised! www.microsoft.com/msdn (double clicks) We could try that. We could actually try the hyperlink, but I don't think it's gonna work. Open in new window. Ok that's better. Oh God, so this is what IE3 looks like. What's with the lions? (JK, it's lines :3) I see CSS was never an option. Aw, dang it! (lip smack) That sucks! Well you know, there's Wayback Machine if you wanna see what's going on. Well that's legitimately pretty cool. Magazine! On a CD! Who knew? So one more thing I wanna try, is one of the most heavily requested things- On all of the videos that have had this computer in it is: Can it play MP4s? And well, off the CD, earlier, I transfered a copy of VLC, and a copy of Bad Apple. So uh, let's put them together and watch the fireworks, shall we? It's funny I transferred over FileZilla, but I didn't even use it once. Huh? Come on now! (click) Ugh! Luckily, since we have FileZila- Which, does work. I can, transfer it that way! See, I have brain, and I can have thoughts! Doesn't that look familiar? Ok- Oh my God! They sure did not change this! Alright! So there we go, now I'm connected to my FTP server- Just gotta reload and there's a copy of VLC! Now this is the last version supported on Windows 98. And I'm just gonna guess it runs on Windows NT. I'll- I'll put it here. (click) 2 Megabytes per second, hey that's not bad! Ok we're gonna click on- Oh my God, what the fuck happened here? Umm... (click) (click) Hey now... (click click) (click) (click) Ok much better. Click on VLC! Hey, that's better! Nice! Yeah so that's 9MBs, I never would have been able to fit that on a floppy disk. It would take me 9 and 7-Zip. If I were to do that. So, y'know. Alright let's see, will it work? Finish? And...? Oh my God, what is that UI? Okay! That is an interesting skin. Ok, so now to see if it plays MP4s. I didn't expect this to run terrifically well, so I actually have 3 different versions. This is actually just a native download from Youtube. And we have low quality, which this is- I think that might not even be a lot, it's probably like 10FPS. And this one's 15. So I'm gonna start out optimistic. And I'm gonna use the native one, and we're gonna see how it goes. Well. Ok it's- Not quite playing yet. Uhh- Hmm... (clicks around in Bad Apple confusion) Oh dear! Well, ok, let's try this one then. Uhh.... Huh. Ok umm, I maybe uh- Drag it on instead. Oh my God another one! Ok! This is fine. (closes other VLC window) So it's not the- Oh my God! Look at that! So ok, this is the lowest quality version I have- And it's skipping- And it's dropping frames- Ok. Umm... Still. Ok can it run the higher quality one now? So this isn't y'know &quot;Native quality downloaded from Youtube.&quot; Yeah... Huh... Still though! Still, that's MP4 on a Pentium 133. That's pretty good! Like- That's- That's really really good. I'm surprised it played it at all to be honest. So I just wanted to take a moment and say this isn't gonna be like, the femboy MJD part- I only have, one copy of Visual Basic anyway, so, ya know. Uh, yeah. (giggles) For December, I have a video planned that's gonna be like, actually a pretty large undertaking. I know right? It's gonna be a Linux video. It's not gonna be the main YouTube video, that's the one after that, which is also gonna have Linux in it. I guess this is a Linux YouTube channel now. Which- That's cool I guess. Anywhosie, huge huge thank you to the names you see on screen for supporting the channel, which you can actually do now, it's like open and stuff, and there's a link in the description if you, want to do that, and, thank you so much for watching! See you next time where my voice is hopefully a little bit more operational, and less... Sounding like this. Byeeeeeeeeeeee! (outro music) A little bit less sounding like this. I don't even know what this is. Like what the fuck is this voice?