We are here in California, on a journey to discover the best 5 days, 5 restaurants. Each with Michelin stars. So far, we've been to Atelier Crenn, Now, we take you to the For that, we hit the road for Healdsburg. It's tucked between lush valleys and surrounded by over 60 wineries in With just under a hundred thousand people, Healdsburg has all the charm of a small town. Knock knock, and open sesame. We are greeted with our first smile of the day. Kelly gives us our second, and even offers to shoot video for us if we want. Amazing service out of the gate. The interior is beautiful and Passing the ultra-modern kitchen, And when we arrive at the Our first bites, presented beautifully. They didn't wait long to impress us. I've never seen a table setting like this. Next, our server presents the menu. In the middle of it, he asks if Then, he keeps going. A few seconds later, more How did he do it? I have a guess. Behind his back, he gives a signal. Like a catcherr in baseball I gotcha. When I call him out, he playfully Like a magician who refuses to reveal a secret. We just barely sat down. And already, I'm having fun. If this is the level of I can't wait to see what's in store for us. Our first course is made up of 10. Yes, 10 bites. Chawanmushi custard topped with uni Bluefin tuna tartar with Japanese mustard Amberjack with kohlrabi in a nuri vinaigrette Farmed celtuce ribbons Needlenose fish Diver scallop Golden sesame tofu Kushi oyster with rhubarb Abalone with orange and sorrel And Baby firefly squid from Tokyo The server explains that we and to remember this is only the course number 1. When we are finished here, there will be 9 more. There is so much work put into these little bites. The creativity and the flavors make it If these were served one it would already be a fantastic restaurant. But thankfully, they have The sommelier called Jackson arrives next. He is young but incredibly confident At the same time, very professional. He kicks things off on a high It's a light and refreshing blend of We hear all about the alcohol-free pairing. It starts off citrusy and then becomes Everything is made from It's funny that some days ago in Switzerland we but here, he has to wait 3 more years, For me, it's a great pitch, but I am fine with wine. There are three tiers of wine pairings, and I choose the Unforgettable Wine Pairing for 1500 dollars or 1400 euro. It's an all-star wine-up full of heavy hitters. First on the list is another Dom Perignon. This time, a P2 from 2004. He describes it beautifully. I couldn't have said it better myself. It's followed up by a Keller The music is an interesting choice. It's instrumental only, but not the kind you hear in a It's understated and creates I have some good news. Soon, we will be adding more than just If you want to see what happens inside make sure you hit that subscribe button And you will be sure to Our next course features different Including soft, fermented cherries And cherry leaves. Every part of the cherry What a presentation. They gave us chopsticks for this dish, But they are careful not to imitate but Our next wine is a 2018 It's one of the most historic and was named after the Emperor Charlemagne. It is said that the Emperor ordered the in the 8th century. Because of its prestige and limited production, Corton-Charlemagne wines are and wine enthusiasts around the world. Next we have a crab and dashi Sugar snap peas, Pea tofu Pea shoots, Pea blossoms, and pea tendrils.. It's like the movie Forrest Gump when It's served with a fried tofu simmered Thank God, I saved some P2 The P2 paired exceptionally well with this dish. Here's why. It complements the umami extremely well and Our next wine is a 2020 L'Hermitage blanc. It's from Jean Louis Chave, also One of the nicest wines from the Rhone Valley. I'm excited to try it with the next course. So far, nothing but good things to say. The service is impeccable. and servers are energetic, Green and white asparagus with caviar is next With Tempura fried fava bean in a sabayon sauce. The sabayon reminded me of a I fell in love with this dish. Authentic flavors and probably This is the next drink in It's a work of art in liquid form. Everything you see in the presentation is real. My next drink is from Japanese producer Heiwa. This is a super premium sake with Heiwa has 500 years of brewing tradition and makes Next is a black cod smoked on wood chips We have something to refresh to the richer, fuller dishes in the program. This is a rhubarb sorbet This is resting on 3 preparations of rhubarb served with toasted rice, It's a complex dish with many Rosemary really punches Ultra fresh and tasty. Coming up is wagyu, but first we need a wine. You've seen me compare wines on Here we have the rare chance to One from a local ranch and Knight's Valley wagyu is nearby and Today we are trying the deckle, It's served with sunchokes, bokchoy, kale I love the elegance and refinement of the kitchen. They are clearly playing on Master mode. The vegetables are perfect. The jus is fantastic, the quality TOP DISH! In fine dining restaurants, it's important It is the one thing that is Here, the water glasses are not transparent, making it a challenge for the service But it doesn't seem to hinder them at all. and I have not been without The service here is so good, and so It's a sophisticated hospitality Our next wine is a 2009 Chataneuf This is by leading producer Chateau Rayas and the 2009 is one of their best vintages. It's paired with our final Mushroom soup. The base is a consomme made with local mushrooms. With rice prepared Singaporean style using Duck meatballs are also added. And it's finished with a lemon zest. In traditional Japanese cuisine, it It helps to cleanse the palate and give And shows the importance of balance With the main courses done, it's time for a walk. That means it's time for a kitchen tour. Here we get to know the history, The restaurant opened in 2016 along Running through everything is one philosophy A single thread, if you will. The goal is to create a that celebrates the connection between It's something owners Kyle and Katina Connaughton and it's the reason Japanese cuisine Chef Kyle's love for Japanese culture When his dad often went to Japan for business, It inspired him, and Chef Kyle with an apprenticeship at one of the He continued training in both pastry including Spago Beverly Hills and Then, he moved to Japan, where he cooked for the famous chef Michel Bras as well as traditional Japanese restaurants. In 2006, he joined Heston Blumenthal to become the Head Chef of Research and His wife Katina has been by his She heads the farming operation with She oversees the 24 acre property including the In 2018, the restaurant was In 2019 came the third, but to get there, Single Thread The whole region was choked by and just as the fires were After restrictions were lifted, the and they were forced to close Above the restaurant are 5 luxury In April 2024, the MICHELIN Guide The Michelin key. While the Michelin star recognizes the Michelin key does the same for hotels. One key means 'a very special stay', two is an exceptional stay, and three is reserved for With dessert on the way, I take a Look at all that Romanee Conti. This selection is crazy. Oh my god. Before dessert, we have a drink service. Jackson struggles but makes a joke before we can. This kid is like a breath of I really admire this dedication and talent. It's crazy to see how far Especially when you think that he could have only started tasting The trust they have in him is inspiring. He also has a gift for us that A glass of Hungarian Tokaji Aszu. We are asked to take a cup for a It's called amazake. It's a traditional sweet drink Desserts are served in two courses. This is amazake foam with green tea cake. And a Japanese cookie filled Not too sweet, very light and delicious. Petit fours are the last to arrive. Here we have steamed Japanese cheesecake Matcha with wild huckleberry Caramelized barley custard with kumquat And eggs made with roasted chocolate. Our total for today is just Now for my final thoughts: Outstanding attention to A sommelier that I will remember for a long time. The menu was fantastic from start to finish, with beautiful presentations, superb All in all, I had a wonderful In the next episode of Alexander the Guest, Part 3 of our series on the best of California See you then!