If you've been watching any of my videos on quantum mechanics, then you nature behave in some very strange ways. photons, electrons, atoms, even some synonymous with measurement. The double slit experiment shows that they behave like waves of probability when not these probability waves collapse so that see from experiments like the delayed can become entangled, meaning that they connected through the sharing of one are separated apart in space-time. And because this is not something that we that? Why don't we see this kind of our everyday lives? Why doesn't this tennis or an atom? At what point does the behavior of everyday objects like this explanation is coming up right now... Scientists have shown quantum behavior containing hundreds (*thousands as of late 2019) of atoms. How large a particle can you get, and still show quantum behavior? What if I take this slit, with a screen behind it that hits the screen? What if I take thousands double slit? Will I see the same kind of No, of course not! I'll just see two patterns behave like electrons or atoms? It's made trillion trillion atoms. Why doesn't the whole behave like the individual particles it's made up of? To answer this of quantum mechanics. Let's look at how light first. The results are the same called this, &quot;the central mystery of monochromatic light, that is light of light hits the screen, we see an because as the waves spread out, the crest becomes stronger. Where a crest hits a big mystery. This is not quantum waves. what if we lower the intensity of the light source emits only one photon at a Surely this should not create a wave time, it forms a dot on the screen. But if millions of photons, what you find is same interference pattern. So somehow the photon either interacts with itself, or somehow is able to communicate its part one at a time. So since we want to find we put a detector there to determine or slit 2? This is the most startling you try to find out which path disappears! The photon appears to now So what's going on? Let's talk in the interpretation, which is the most mechanics. This was conceived by Niels University of Copenhagen around 1927. these so-called particles are not They are in multiple states at the same The waves become distinct, like particles, at which the probability wave becomes a of the probability wave. What scientists which-path information of any particle is For the particles to remain probability in absolute secrecy. If at any point, any is seen by anyone or not, the particles wave-like behavior. The same behavior has electrons, atoms and even molecules The same interference pattern forms, and the same collapse occurs if their which-path information is measured. A measurement measurement? A measurement is a formation of any physical record of which path the particle takes. It's not about conscious the universe even if no one is looking. had even the most sensitive quantum particle took. You never have to look at information, before you look at it, like it's on. The wave will still collapse, Why is it recorded even if you destroyed it?...because theoretically, you could go back in time and see the path. The universe &quot;hey, I already know the path. Now it's a The path has to be taken in absolute informationally isolated. The impossible, even in principle, to find out said, this happens with photons, electrons, if we do this with really large the way, are typically composed of Will we see the same pattern?...of course side of the double slit. Why don't we see reason is that large objects are nearly from the outside world. What do I mean by take to isolate a tennis ball. Remember, there is no record made anywhere in the follows. First we have to remove all the a photon or air molecule bounces off the recorded the path of the tennis ball. For ball, then that could be a measurement, changed, and the bounced path of the of the ball. Potentially, someone or the the photons in the room, find out how tennis ball, and find out from that ball took. And the same thing applies for tennis ball to near absolute zero, will emit photons due to something This is a property of all bodies with which is by the way negative 273 degrees recorded the information about examining the photons in the room, could We even have to worry about the small ball will have. Why?...because this affect nearby atoms. This, in principle, that this tennis ball took. The movements of the path of that tennis ball. We have because any information that is leaked create a record, even if this information information which has been captured in not be in superposition, will not be a Macroscopic objects like this are very informationally, so in our everyday we will not see quantum superposition or one principle of quantum mechanics is regardless of size. Could the tennis ball it informationally? This may be true, but look at this mathematically. The wave of wave function. Lambda equals Planck's the Planck constant is so tiny, and the extremely small. So the interference will approximate no interference. The tennis ball converges to classical that it probably cannot even be measured. objects, like our bodies, are going to be to get. This is the reason you and I, and not in superposition. The cat is not dead And there's no possibility of our normal everyday interactions. And for the same reasons, macroscopic objects like this, cannot be entangled in the way what we see macroscopically is a very microscopically. and this is why it's a and equations in quantum mechanics to completely different ways. They are two what happens when no one is looking. This if it only happens when you're not happened. Another way to look at this is humans are very intimately connected to even thought, is recorded in the this way, our whereabouts and even the universe. There's no escaping our that we are made up of and surrounded by. informationally, indeed one with the You can enjoy lectures from some of the world. professor Benjamin Schumacher on some of the crazy implications of quantum mechanics. One of his lectures in fact you're intrigued by quantum physics, and love Dr. Schumacher, and his teaching are like &quot;Quantum Computing,&quot; &quot;Quantum I just love great courses plus and I'm sponsoring me. I would have a regardless. And they're offering an viewers. If you use the link in the get a free trial...but be sure to use the