[wind blowing] PETER: Good morning, from Phoenix. If there's one thing I've learned it's that you can't put So many different types of people So today we're gonna go two hours west to get into a community that's living In RVs, in trucks, in cars. Some by choice, Others by necessity. So let's get out there, and see what we can learn Let's do this. [mellow country music] [truck driving on gravel] PETER: So guys, this is one of Lot of videos have someone but this one is... Let's find it. PETER: So how long you been doing this for? We sold our house in Atlanta. That was gonna be our forever house. We remodeled it, we spent a lot of... Heated floors, waterfall in the back yard And then one day we're out We had rented an RV. We're driving one morning, we're looking at each other like, [Peter chuckles] -So we did. We enjoy it. You meet so many good people. -Is this your buddy right here? He's been doing this for, like, 17 years. PETER: Oh, wow. All right, guys, that didn't take PETER: How you doing, sir? -Good. -My name's Ram. -It's a pleasure to meet ya. PETER: So you're saying I go down here... RANDY: The street right here... RANDY: Go down to the stop sign is gonna be wide open nothing. There's like 14,000 acres And you go pick your spot. -Anyone can camp out there? -Can you stay as long as you want? RAM: They have two week, move two week... Whatever, but then they have like us. We pay $180 for, like, six months. RAM: And they have water station, and your trash, and all that. PETER: So this is a good zone? You really want to see the crowd, RAM: Oh, yeah. PETER: How many miles is that? -From here, once you hit the main road, PETER: How many people do you think -Right now probably at least... -[Peter surprised] Quarter million? RAM: During the RV show last year... PETER: Wait, wait... RAM: Last year... RAM: You just missed the RV show. PETER: All right, let me get that straight. Just out here, -You've got about 14,000 acres out here There's about a quarter million people -Well, if this is empty, Look at this, guys, RVs. Both sides of the road. [Truck banging over speed bump] PETER: So Craig, It's a Harley-Davidson edition? CRAIG: Yeah, it's a 2011 Cummings PETER: Look at the design on this. Who comes out here? -Everybody from somebody camping We see everything. [gravel crunching] MAN: I'm a retired, after 28 years, I did... My last 20 years was as And I had to retire I decided I'm not gonna sit on my a**, and live the rest of my life I wanted to be outside PETER: Gotcha. -Doing my job, so I decided... I watched videos and saw people doing this. I'm like, And I love it. [four wheeler revving] PETER: How's the vibe out here? BOB: Oh yeah, we get along great. PETER: When you see the Confederate flag -Why? [Bob laughing] PETER: All right. It's the North Virginia battle flag PETER: Yeah, I don't get into politics all different flags, and everything -Yep. -I was with the naked circle. BOB: Oh, you went up to... PETER: Oh, it's a magic circle? PETER: There are a lot of old men ROBERT: I tell you what, and that's where he lives at. BOB: There's a lot of big RVs Way back over here. PETER: There's an ambulance over there. PETER: That's your ambu... -Yeah. -You feel safe in there? It's very secure. You're not gonna BOB: Some people just can't take it. It's just too... because negativity -Okay. -Um, you just gotta cope. It's always something Somethings wrong... This guy back here... His transmission broke, So he had to go down the road and fix it. -And it's always something. That's kind of a phrase that everybody has, You know, &quot;This broke, that broke.&quot; -I've been traveling around the country This is my third year. Where I just got rid of everything I own. -Do you know who lives here? -And they're living full-time there? PETER: So this is your ambulance? I wish I'dda washed it. I was gonna wash it yesterday. If I'd known you were coming -It's looking good. -A lot of these guys go and they -Okay. Because I'm an ambulance purist. -You have a podcast? -Oh yeah, there we go. -Just living out here and traveling. -All right, so go ahead if you want more intimate detail. -There ya go. Sometimes very intimate. So basically... -Out at the magic circle it gets very... -It's still an ambulance. -Unfortunately my welcome mat is that It's just still an ambulance. Plenty of storage. -Right. Built in already. -You have, [knocks] insulation? [knocks] -Yeah. No, it's very well insulated. It'll get cold but we have heat for that. -And, you know... All these systems that people put -Okay, so what's your theory on that? -Keep it simple. Here's my cow skin blanket. -Where you sleeping? On the ground? -Yeah, I roll all this stuff -This is the office? -We produce everything here. -Who's we? -You're calling you, we? -Okay. -And this is the electronics area. -Or is it &quot;We&quot; means you and the ambulance? -Maybe it does. Maybe there's someone else in there -You come as a unit. -So hard to tell. This is it, you know, -Okay. -Almost all the cooking is on a campfire. -Can I, uh... [cabinet clicks and opens] There's the pantry. -Refrigerator? -Don't have a refrigerator. -Eventually I'll get one My plan is to get solar and then But basically all the cooking we do [metal banging] That's the podium for the sermons? -This is the podium for the podcasts. This is where we... -So what do you get out of this lifestyle? Break it down for those that have no clue. -Freedom, freedom, freedom. It just boils down to that, freedom. I don't pay rent. I do what I want when I want. I can get up at noon You know, I have a little business. So I do my thing and I'm here I just refuse to pay So a bunch of us, -Mike's in the bus? -He and I both are just furious So we're just hanging out -So when diesel comes down -Yeah... No, I'm crazy. The first year I traveled full-time up and down. Ran the whole border, coast to coast twice. It was crazy. PETER: Wow, look at him. BOB: We would like to be able to... All of us would like to be able to We're just kind of But the price of fuel is coming down, so... It's happening very slowly. ROBERT: That needs to happen faster. PETER: Do you listen to his podcast? ROBERT: No. [all laughing] BOB: And it's a good thing. ROBERT: I don't because we would -Because you're listening to him BOB: Or around the camp fire. ROBERT: We have... I won't say opposing. PETER: That makes it fun, spicy. ROBERT: We argue. -[Craig laughing] We were arguing -I said, &quot;Get out of the truck and fight.&quot; And he said, &quot;I will shoot you. ROBERT: I don't fight fair. An ex-cop, you really want to go there? He's got skills. BOB: I was kidding. PETER: So summertime, -We'll be here 'til... BOB: Not here but we were down at... -It's great, I love the heat. -You go to the magic circle at that time? [Peter chuckling] PETER: So super social out here? -It can be or it can be not social. It just... You don't... You know... You don't approach people If you start talking and then whatever... Over time you get to know people. -And then they invite you over and then, you know, there's some rules. If you can, you bring your own plate, Most people are very giving. If you want to bring food, that's fine. Sometimes I go over to his thing. I'll take a steak over there while I'm sitting there or whatever but it's social, you know, it's social, and then he doesn't care, and vice-versa. So it's a little easier camping with guys it's very social. -Yeah, what is the singles scene ROBERT: What singles scene? BOB: Well these are not... These are older women, It's nonexistent. ROBERT: And the younger women -Not just that ROBERT: They are all into... Um... [Bob laughs heartily] -They're all into either each other... [Bob laughing] -I'm not saying I like to watch but, um... Or they... They... Social justice runs strong out here. It does. It does. PETER: I saw Trump flags everywhere. -There's that too. -Those are the anti-social justice. PETER: Okay, so you get -Those are older people and they tend to be Is what that tends to be. Um... With your van-lifers it's the other side of the spectrum. It's the old hippie... And they're actually pretty cool. PETER: Which are? -I think they're real... I think they're... If I was that age I would love to be and what they do is part of their realm. Which is there's a lot of patchouli PETER: So it's just old school hippies? -What's different about the hippies now BOB: I don't know. ROBERT: They don't care PETER: Now? BOB: You don't think they care -I don't think they care, you saw They were frickin' cutting down BOB: For firewood, 'cause she's a Christian, so... They got into it. PETER: They don't like Christians out here? And they... No, most people... There's a church over there. and most people, We're not making judgments about religion. It's just this particular group. And I wasn't there, but they were making a lot of noise that they were making a lot of noise, they went over there They wouldn't. -[man speaking from a distance] -He's got fresh clothes, BOB: He's all ready to go. [all laughing] BOB: We're making a video. PETER: Yeah, they were How you doing, Mike? Peter PETER: So what's going on out here? -Little bit. -How many years? -Wow. So you did it -Just got sick of the city. I didn't like the high cost of housing. -I was just sick of it, man. -What city? -Grand Rapids, Michigan. -Oh, that's not even a big city is it? -No, not comparatively but for the Midwest When Detroit died, all the sh*t Came straight to us. Housing went up, jobs disappeared, Why am I gonna keep when I can buy an apartment? -Right. -And pretty much -I know this is a big ask ROBERT: It's a hot mess MIKE: No, it's actually not. BOB: If that dog... you will not come out. ROBERT: Oh, stop it. MIKE: Let me get the dogs -When I met him last year I had issues with my vehicle and then I had issues with my solar, so... He helped me out with both of them and... ...he's the one that got me, Do what you can to help people out here. Because you never know -I was told that with He said that's the vibe out here. BOB: If you need help, you'll get help. People help you. I mean there's rules, You can't work on your trucks out here. That's what the guy You know, but people will PETER: Slab City, ROBERT: Oh, yeah. BOB: I think Slab City is, you know... You hear a lot about Slab City It's like, &quot;Oh, did you go to Slab City?&quot; I went there. Nothing bad happened. It's just a... I'll give you my take on it is Which is great. You go in the hot springs I mean it's all slimy, and you can fall into the water, They have a spot over there -Yeah, yeah, -The flies are terrible and it's like &quot;Hey, let's get 20 guys together &quot;...and fix the stuff by the hot springs.&quot; They won't even do that. So I'm not very impressed with... It's the typical smarter than... Too smart by half or whatever it is &quot;Oh, you know, we don't need a government. I don't know if I could live there. ROBERT: He's probably long gone by now of the movie, Nomad, fame. [Mike laughing] ROBERT: Of the movie Nomad, fame. I think the one He will tell everybody, &quot;Oh, you can BOB: In a car. And he convinces ...and I don't agree with it. ROBERT: Because it can get very difficult that isn't a little savvy, then it'll kill you. BOB: So many women, older women, and they will come out here in cars It's not for the faint of heart. It's just... you are constantly lifting, and if you want to eat or you gotta have It's not like being at home -Yeah. -You know, and it can be demanding. And so it's pretty contentious. You go out and talk to those people Pam, we call her &quot;Pam of the Pambulance.&quot; She'll tell you for sure she doesn't like that don't have any ROBERT: Right. -So you're saying there's a whole group -It's starting to be MIKE: It's becoming a trend. BOB: It's becoming a trend [all laughing] PETER: Wait, I thought busses were a trend. BOB: I know but at least everyone has one. MIKE: This is very much military-style. PETER: Military-style, okay. MIKE: It's very Spartan. PETER: An old Army bus, yeah? MIKE: Um, I don't know what service it is. -Oh you are a vet? -Do you miss the service at all or no? I do, it's... You wake up in the morning, what you're gonna do for the day. You don't have to worry about not having Stuff like that. -Out here you're completely on your own like these guys here. -You've got that then? -And you love Hot Wheels? -I do. It's just a hobby. Something my dad used to get me or vacations, or out for a weekend. He would bring me back one [chuckles] PETER: Wow, it reminds me... [Mike laughs] -It's kinda short. So I got the clearance it can be a little bit of a challenge. She's a beast, she's solid. About five and a half miles about seven and a half -Okay. What did you pay for it? -Six grand. -No. Last year. -You upgraded? I had a Class C that I was in and water pump failed, all at the same time So like, that's five grand. I was like, &quot;Oh, sh*t.&quot; For that price This was my dad who just passed in March. -Oh, I'm sorry. -So he was the one who helped me It was the last thing he'd approved -What do you mean he approved -My cash limit to buy the bus. -Your what? -Oh, okay, okay. -He backed me on that Like a month before he passed. -I'm sorry. -You did good job. Good girl. PETER: What is this here? -Somebody made this -Okay. -I just happened to find it and it made a good reference point I have a line-up site -Okay. PETER: So what are people missing ROBERT: What are they missing? ROBERT: They think we're homeless. MIKE: Drug addled, reprobates. BOB: My sister, Beautiful picture of the desert, And I'm like, &quot;What's dangerous? PETER: Saguaro cacti? Pretty dangerous? PETER: If you fall into them. BOB: Yeah, they think it's dangerous. MIKE: This is my idea of true freedom. I mean you get to do what you want You set your own rules and as long as you you'll be all right. PETER: What's the drug scene out here? BOB: I don't know. MIKE: Out here, PETER: Ah. MIKE: There's not really So... They peddle to the tourists. -Tourists are into meth? Some of them that are. -The locals will cook the meth, BOB: Go sit up at the Pilot. PETER: What's the Pilot? There's some unsavory characters up there. PETER: They're just -No they're just... You'll get it. ROBERT: They are the truly homeless, -They are, um... Every one of 'em Old Western Duster and... -[Mike offended] Hey, man. -I'm not saying... [all laughing] ROBERT: They are an eclectic bunch. -To say the least. BOB: They're travelers. ...and they panhandle, You know, &quot;My dog's hungry, And then you give them a couple dollars MIKE: When they leave, PETER: Do you guys feel Like you're in your own world out here? You're not following politics BOB: Well I do anyway. Like, I have a whole system So I'm constantly doing that anyway I've done it for years but... It can be a dreamworld. Especially when you're traveling, But then... Which is real? Is this real Because it's kind of a dreamworld ROBERT: You can be as disconnected... You can be as disconnected If you want to continue following then you got internet. You got your cell phone, but if you truly want to be You can be. BOB: There's lots of delineations quote-unquote society out here. Because you have RVers So they're gonna go back to Ypsilanti, -Okay. -When the weather gets warm up there. Then there's people out here We're nomads 'cause we're gonna go I'm gonna go back to Wisconsin or whatever. Um... And the real nomads, lot of van-life people, and they go around, and they either have YouTube channels or they have some -Okay. -And they have means of support. Other people are on disability, and they have money. -Right. People do it So if you wanted to go to the Keys. Well, it's gonna cost you a fortune. Where as here you pay $180 at the LTVA. You've got, you know, -Yeah. You can just go sit in your house all day -So it's all different types of people -All different types of people. -You see there's a nice There's a bunch of beautiful Class A's. Which are the, you know, Like, they're big busses basically. And those things are $400,000, $500,000. -Are there any socioeconomic divides? Like someone's got the Class A, 'cause you're in the ambulance Well, we get a little irritated because most of them bring generators and they just run their generators all day, And so we get a little irritated. -This guy in the trailer over here, So he has to charge up So we give him a pass. -But the trailer people, They like to gather in groups and I think they're probably people that they live with And they all get together. -Or they have friends If you have the resources who am I to say it's right or wrong? But if you have high levels of resources, with different levels of resources. Some people have no resources, and you just go with what you got. Once it hits you that you want to do this, well, you know, I said, &quot;I need to do something.&quot; So... and the more I looked at I thought, &quot;Well, I've got the truck.&quot; I know it's a 7.3 diesel, I know it's gonna run. Finally I was like... So I had to literally get rid of everything because there's no room But I'm telling you, everything I sold, until the whole place was empty. And then I felt great. So it's just, you know, 'cause they couldn't country guitar [truck driving on gravel] PETER: It's so beautiful out here. mellow music from campsite The colors of the desert. Dark blue, lighter blue, out to the orange. Soft breeze, perfect temperature. PETER: How you doing? PETER: How ya doing? PETER: Oh, I'm just making a video -Yeah. -No, my poster might be [all laughing] PETER: Do you guys live up here? -I am going to sleep here tonight, yes. -You live here for the moment? Okay. -Yeah, I live here, -But he's been full-time for two years now. -Oh, no way. -Travel all over -Where you from? -Oh, okay, never been there. -Based out of Ohio now -Okay. -People... This is Mark, Cajun Mark. -Cajun Mark, Peter Santenello. -Yeah, nice to meet you. [to the tune of Santeria by Sublime] I ain't got no crystal ball -It's Italian. PETER: Do you guys live near each other or you're just old friends -No, no, he invited me over -We just met. I just met him. -I've only known this guy -Oh. -We met in... -It's that type of place? -Exactly that kind of a place. -You catch up with them, &quot;Hey, I'm in this part of the country.&quot; -It's a good vibe out here. -But everybody comes down here This is the new Florida. PETER: So you live out of this, Nicole? -Full-on bike stand... -It's my son, he did this build. [laughs] -All right, show us the home. -I'll show it off. My stove, I have issues with how he back here... This platform folds down. -Okay. -Okay. -It's all tucked... put it away every time but... -When did you make this choice -It's been about an eight year -Wow. -And I am finally living out of this thing So little by little, -Okay. You're a cyclist? -Yeah, I am. Not heavy-duty cyclist but [laughs] This is built to get me -Okay. -And then I have an awning and if that's the case I have my backpack up top. -So what do you get out of this lifestyle? Like what do you feel out of it? Oh, freedom and where I need to be Honestly, like... -And it's just living this and giving back ...as a collective. -I'm not bound to a time frame. It's just me and the road, -Do you meet people out here? -Medicine Bear. -He's in there right now. We were just over in this ridge line and he's... [both laughing] -And he is legitly a medicine bear. You look at him and you're like, -So it's all types out here, right? -It's all types. -Oh it is, and it's cool and that thread is just like, &quot;What can I do to make your experience -Okay. -You know, everyone's within -Okay, okay. -There's more parties in certain sections, meditation in certain sections, say hi to someone over there and... -You just do that? -Yeah. -It's almost like you're doing something -Yeah, yeah. And, like, every door is open in a way. Like you can go talk to... I had no idea this community even existed. -Where are you from originally? -Originally from Utah. -So do you get more community out here -Yes, I do. -I mean, maybe I've lived in a home, am I getting into their living spaces? And, like, you know what I mean? -You have adult kids? -What do they think of it? -They know this is me. -You look happy. You look very happy. -Well, it's like... You know what I mean? I hope that's what just exudes -Now mom is cool? -Mom was always cool. -Mom's rocking the Tacoma -Oh, yeah. -Look at that moon. Full in, like, three days from now. -Oh cool, take care. -See you. All right, guys. Nice little view into Quartzsite, A few takeaways. It's got a good vibe here. All different types of people, different socioeconomic situations, but it seems quite respectful, and... Very interesting, gotta say. I could definitely come out here Wouldn't be living, All right, guys, Until the next one. country guitar