Minecraft is full of different unique mobs, probably never seen or heard of. So today we're looking at the unknown mobs Minecraft. we're nearly at 1.2 million so subscribe and Minecraft any more, starting off with some Minecraft Earth. The game got shut down in June, leaving these We've all seen the iron golem and snow golem When this absolute beast sees any hostile mob. It's based on the blast furnace, but you can't Don't drop the furnace golem in water, as work underwater. It's also very dangerous to keep these guys on fire. Snow golems have a new type too... Introducing the melon golem, which is really Just like snow golems, you can shear off their This is what the melon would look like if even more terrifying than the normal carved The melon golem rapidly fires melon seed projectiles their pumpkin brothers. The new golems are just the beginning, as Minecraft Earth was the Viler Witch. It was bigger than the normal witch with a potions before attacking. Something a little less harmful is the group to Minecraft Earth but won't add to the main Most of them are just new skins, but the most It's nearly two blocks tall, making it absolutely Big Chungus would be proud. There are also seven new pig variants, including before, but did you know that you could get they dry out? But what happens if mud and lava flow into They make dirt instead of cobblestone! That's weird, but the next ones make even You couldn't even get this mob in any game This is the Dyed Cat, and its name is Peanut One of the developers said that it's actually that makes it peanut butter and jelly. I don't recommend eating it, but you can eat Earth. This one's called the &quot;cluckshroom&quot; and they in the dark, running around wildly if they're Another interesting one is the fancy chicken. This guy struts around with a giant tail feather Pigs chicken out when they see fancy chickens, which is a bit rude! An April fools update had diamond chickens every now and then. This same update had red silverfish called clocks! It was also the first ever version with horses, The funny thing is, that's not even the most Two April fools updates had happy withers. You had to feed them sugar for them to grow They fired skulls that acted like bone meal These April fools ones were clearly joke mobs, Minecraft Earth's rainbow sheep was a real easter egg in the main game. This sheep is even cooler as it actually drops You can craft this into rainbow carpet and, There are seven more types of sheep that you've You can't dye most of these new versions but The most special is the horned sheep, which to keep one as a pet since they paw at the hearts of damage. If you manage to defeat it, you'll get a horn literally nothing. Speaking of pets, remember DanTDM's skeleton Well, Mojang actually turned it into a real You could hear its bones rattling when this They may look cute, but you can't tame them while howling to give other skeleton mobs Is that a skeleton spider? Yeah, that's right! Bone spiders were a thing too, and launched They had double the health and could attack Their sounds were HORRIBLE compared to normal want to keep these in the main game. Mojang also added two new zombie types which This one's called the bouldering zombie and The other is the lobber zombie which, as the at players. Both of these weird new zombies have differently zombies don't have, which makes them very Something nicer is the Minecraft version of Mojang added to Minecraft Earth to celebrate This type of llama eats ferns and then jumps Like the other mobs there were more types Twelve of them! The wooly cow was basically like a sheep that wool when sheared. The moobloom was in the 2020 mob vote, but buttercups. There was even a very secret pink version pink flowers on its back. You've probably not heard of the rare &quot;moolip&quot;, pink daisies attached to its body. Speaking of mob votes, you probably remember but there was another SECRET mob vote that the release of Minecraft China. The Panda won the vote with half a million were the Chinese alligator, golden monkey, We could've had another species of dolphin The biome votes that Mojang did over the years in the future. They confirmed: frogs in swamps, Remember this mob from the first ever vote? It was actually called the &quot;Wildfire&quot; and but you can't find it in-game. When glitched in, it has four large shields The wildfire uses the texture of a normal the middle. The wildfire isn't the only mob exclusive us in the main game. Here are some more: The iceologer was also in the 2020 mob vote and stun you. Some of the files for this mob call it the this. Another Dungeons illager is the mountaineer. These have mountaineer picks, which they use Even scarier are the two armoured versions The mage illager could cast spells but was which is really odd. This dripped out villager here goes completely all. It's called the &quot;quest giver&quot; and probably know for sure as it was cut from the game. The jack o'lantern was going to be an actual Its eyes would've lit up and then launched it into the final game. Pink slimes are in the game and also stay projectiles. They can't move or jump, but they are still They aren't the only slimes though! Tropical slimes hold tropical fish inside when provoked. They can also swim in water and even climb When killed, they split into smaller slimes The next mob is another cube-shaped one called of redstone dust as it relentlessly chases Unlike most of these mobs, I really wouldn't This next one is also something that Mojang The wraith is a pretty scary ghost-skeleton blue flames around you. Like endermen, they follow you and can teleport more scary. A slightly less scary ghost is the wisp mob. No, not the YouTuber, THIS mob. They make noises like ghasts, but there are ghast sounds. You can even keep them as a pet to fight with Quite cute if you ask me! There are even real birds too that you can modelled. Minecraft Dungeons also has the squall golem, They sit on the ground but charge towards with their quick attacks. There are also more types of piglin in this up blue nethershrooms and throws them at you. So those Minecraft Dungeons mobs were crazy, the Education Edition. Yeah, the Education Edition does have some normal Minecraft. The iron golem and furnace golem are alright, This is the agent. It has no AI because this is from the Education it yourself! The agent even has its own spawn egg with It has its own inventory and can push pressure Since this is a secret mob you could call I deserved that. Ever wanted more types of villagers? No? Great! Education Edition also has twenty-five different There's a robot one, one in a hazmat suit, They have this cool rainbow spawn egg as well! They're invincible and just kinda stand there Now that you've learned about the Education were mentioned by Mojang but never added. When Notch announced that dragons were coming Dragon, but also mentioned the &quot;slightly less terrain when landing, allowing you to keep Jeb has said he thinks it will be added eventually, Notch also mentioned adding hamsters in 2010, Another developer more recently mentioned of this just yet. Sea monsters were mentioned in 2010 as well, This would've pulled you down into the depths Even more recently, in April 2020, Dinnerbone to be added, but that the feature got scrapped. Shulkers were originally going to camoflage was cut as it was too hard for even Mojang So there are 109 Minecraft mobs you've never Subscribe!