So a little while back I was submitting my And that's pretty nerve wracking, nearly to a few pages which may or may not get accepted. guide for this particular journal, and it's full italicize your headings, format your references to the section on formatting your figures, But that wasn't the weirdest part. At this inconspicuous paragraph that was the opposite of Authors are encouraged to avoid use of the to OSA journals that include the Lena image will using the image and why no reasonable substitute &quot;Cameraman&quot; or &quot;Mandril&quot; or &quot;Peppers&quot; or a large like MATLAB and available in the public domain. belong to the University of Southern as benign as they look, have helped to shape so A set of 512x512 pixel images that were freely compare different algorithms to process digital familiar concepts like humans and food. interesting challenges for computers. Lots of and sharp transitions. All of them in some way And this Lena image, also belongs to this library to USC's image library you'll see a note at the is no longer distributed by them: "Although in the history of image processing, they no longer So why is there a specific rule against it now? and I can't imagine what it could be that I can think of a few other images that would get don't know, someone sitting on a ***** wearing and I don't think they needed rules it's not just this one journal, several journals made statements urging authors to consider it is. A woman in a fancy feathered To explain this we need to go back to the summer California, in the Signal and Image Processing years old by that point. At that time the lab test images to replace the boring ones from the like Mandril and Peppers. But their most famous On this particular day they really just had because glossy surfaces provide good dynamic between the lightest and darkest spots on because humans are really good at recognizing an image algorithm messed something up, we'd know their prime candidate fell into their lap. A grad of Playboy. The centerfold that Soderberg. Blurred for obvious reasons. Lena's but she asked that her name be printed with So they tore off the top 1/3rd of the centerfold the image was slightly stretched and the very top the top line to get an even 512 rows, and that was not at all commonplace, so many labs sharing images was understandable. But the re-use of digital scanning was hard to come by. Some of the The feather on her hat has a lot of fine detail. shading. The foreground and background of Lena became what is quite possibly, the most is on the cover of at least a few textbooks. that was uploaded to ARPANET, the precursor something as going viral back then, Lena is a cataloguing to track down every single usage Thankfully, a team has already done Jan Diehm and Michelle McGhee over at The Pudding ever since its first appearance in methodology depends so heavily on digitized are probably going to be undercounted, since online. Nonetheless you can pinpoint the exact After it was first digitized in 1973, Lena has a there may be only 1 or 2 papers featuring Lena, A slow up tick in Lena appearances and in 1989 I have a feeling this an outlier that is missing everything changes. Throughout the 70s and 80s appearing in articles and various nothing fancy. But in June 1991 the journal Lena and Peppers on their cover. This led to an the last peak the uses tripled going over 60. This basically saying that "hey, we saw that you used do that. We'll give you a pass this time The editor-in-chief then basically told any and in general to ensure they had the necessary wanted to use. Of course this had the opposite a small bump, and then in 1993 it nearly doubled. of the Lena phenomenon was in 1995, with over 280 is likely undercounting the actual figure. and it stays relatively low until it picks up around those levels, even to this day, Playboy's copyright threats did nothing to stop 90's Playboy had done a 180 on enforcing their VP of New Media had this to say: &quot;We decided we I feel like any other word than "exploit" would why they gave up. The November 1972 issue of the 4th highest selling issue of Still though, clearly there was a significant and copyright aside, there has to be a reason Let's zoom in on 1996, and take a look at the If you want a journal all about image processing, articles included the Lena image. That's 30% of 3, contained Lena. The editor in chief, David "A Note on Lena". "During my term as of times with the suggestion that the [journal] of Lena." Munson then goes on to describe the sends the wrong message, and why he suspects the "First, the image contains a nice and texture that do a good job of testing the Lena image is a picture of an attractive image processing research community gravitated He then makes the buckwild decision to follow Lena image is featured in the movie Sleeper. oh my god. And before you check the I assure you, it does not make it any less that he's heard wide diversity of opinions on described as a feminist who said that "this also makes a point of saying that the majority of Now, and hear me out here, have you considered you work in a field...predominantly filled with men? with you are only still there because they're I also wanted to hear a diversity of opinions, I'm sure you'll appreciate hearing from &quot;I fee like my thoughts are kind of hard to lot of aspects to this issue. I mean I'm pro be using a sexualized image in papers and image on women in the field. I can see how it would be oh! Let's just use this image. But the fact &quot;As an outsider...it's hard to understand it. So a lot of people who really don't like I think when you're part of a tradition it's also not really be useful to you anymore. This image as an engineering tool anymore &quot;So like looking at the picture you can tell it's image of like a-it's like a woman's portrait. why you would have such a push to retire it. I and the origins of it are problematic. sexual comments from the boys in her class, was evidence of a broader culture issue. I comments because of its origin, it's eliciting Now again, this op-ed was from 1996, and I want it's due. Munson ends his opinion with a call for outright ban on the image because he didn't want to those wanted to retire the image, "In cases equally well, why not use that other image? After that use of the image would likely decline on its it. And he was right about that. Let's take Processing. In 2015 it saw 38 articles with the of articles has dropped significantly. Now whether you agree the ethical arguments, there is also a compelling technical argument in his closing sentence: "And who knows? We that work well across a broader class of The overuse of the Lena image is a pretty of tradition. Think about it, in a field that if you spend most of your time training all you've proven is that your algorithm works different objects. They only learn based off If you give it nothing but pictures of dogs, In the years since Munson's editorial, expressed a renewed interest in retiring the Lena demonstrating that something works on Lena isn't Lena contains about 250,000 pixels, some 32 times And then there's a quality problem: The most of a printed page. The printing process doesn't dots that trick your eye into seeing continuous mean that the scanned Lena image isn't comparable Basically Lena was a good test image in the 70s. 1970s supercomputer, Lena is out of date. In 2011 Michael Wirth and Denis Nikitenko wrote "worn-out" test images, and have a whole section that it's standardized. If everyone is using reference for different algorithms. But that's image is this one, in colour. The majority of Lena. But you can make a grayscale version 4 different decomposition techniques used to take those pixels, and plot them on a histogram, Do these look the same to you? looks the same to the human eye doesn't The other big problem is that Lena is Sure, it has good detail, nice shading, etc., useful. Michael and Denis bring up an example of The idea being is that if an image has two the algorithm should be able to identify that. Do aren't they have lots of different peaks. This because she's a good choice for this algorithm. streaks and scratches from an image. Rather than the paper instead adds an artificial one to but instead adds artificial noise to Lena. when you could just use a test image with those "image processing algorithms should be tested Finally their next section has possibly my ever seen. Section 6. How to Section 6.1. Don't use them. alright moving on. "The use of Lena was fine when there were however, it is difficult to make that claim the comfort zone of these historical test standardized databases of images which And look, I get that this isn't You don't have to look very hard to retiring the Lena image. First off you have &quot;I mean as a recent engineering graduate towards women is a very multi faceted problem. problems. If there is one specific tiny problem pushing against that one tiny problem and then about the culture issues, then by all means do it. if we change all these little small things, then &quot;I kinda think too that it is a waste of resources two completely separate things, it's not really because it doesn't really help. That's true it really a reason for not retiring a certain image &quot;Yeah I'm in the side of things where it's worth one little brick in the wall basically. In Odds are you've met people like this, but they real life. But besides these idiots there Book burning huh? That's a little extreme. The calling for all the old papers to be erased, or journals. Literally no one is saying that. moving forward. It's this bizarre complex where status quo by even an inch are viewed as an okay, sure, I agree, there's a lot the history ignored and under-documented, and The word computer, in its earliest definition, electromechanical, or just plain mechanical. whose job it was to sit down and grind out tedious majority of these human computers were women. intertwined with the world of computer science. computer programmer, having created the first hypothetical analytical engine. Grace Hopper is convert human readable words into machine readable programming language COBOL. She also coined the in the Harvard Mark II. Margaret Hamilton, coder Katherine Johnston performed the calculations been called the patron saint of JPEG's, but she co-created the JPEG format at IBM and was the still use today. Now highlighting exceptional but to focus entirely on them just perpetuates the to recognize to the many millions of women who from the early 1900s up to the 1960s. If you recommend Programmed Inequality by Mar Hicks. To full fill the role of inventor or entrepreneur is often regarded as not being integral to "As a class of workers in the 19th and early 20th participation, less flexibility and control to demand higher rates of pay." As such they were Labour that was considered tedious, menial, and In the 1880s Harvard's Edward Pickering hired and catalogue nearly 10,000 stars. He recognized this sort of work, but of course there was the than the average factory worker. The earliest cables that were manually plugged and unplugged, Women in the US, including a larger number of performed the majority of ballistics computing unit to break Germany's Enigma code was nearly were sworn to secrecy, and when asked their job Many of the women are long dead now, The programmers for the world's first fully female mathematicians. These terms didn't quite and software was considered woman's work. women what they wanted it to do, and the ENIAC which they would then manually slot one vacuum tube at a time. After the war had supported while men were in combat, a large to what you might think today women were actively If you needed to calculate payroll for your calculators from IBM. And to operate those would have included my grandmother. If you look and 70s, it was a lot of wow look at the pretty the help of a computer). Think of how many staff person. &quot;employers simply looked for candidates And in this respect, gender stereotypes worked in traditional expertise at painstaking activities this mind-set. A book from 1968, "Your Career in from a cookbook" make good programmers. obviously still riddled with discrimination. jobs were subject to laws like Britain's equal were so segregated by gender, there were often no so there was no pay disparity to equalize. were still absent from management positions, and become their bosses. And there was the whole thing married. And yet the computer industry was one of upwards class mobility. In 1967 Cosmopolitan noted to $170,000 a year in today's money. So it should any upwards class mobility, even through a market would do a 180, and cut-off that avenue. inflection point where the trend of women at least in the United States. Throughout the 70s effectively doubled, and the peak was the computer sciences graduates being women. Since that percentage was just 17.6%. And this trend compare computer science to medicine, the physical increasing and eventually plateaued. And of but clearly something is different about computer first decade where the average home could afford showed up to their first day of university was They may never have even touched one before, but the ground up. But home computers weren't marketed was a white guy. Computers were sold as toys for gifts to practice on at a young age, and many run by Jane Margolis in the latter half of the as likely to have been given [a computer] as a computer for the family, they most often So when that same generation of boys and girls many of the boys already knew the basics and they were left to play catchup on their out of computer science, so no need to advertise trends that Margolis saw was that even when they would still drop out of the program. would go on to graduate. It wasn't a meritocracy. a computer all the time, and if you don't do you code with C++? Name three of their albums. contradicted another student? "You sure are bitchy has only one or two women? "Gee, I don't think in the same office," one said. "We should share." "...when some men at Carnegie Mellon were women as desktop wallpaper on their computers, of the sort practiced by "the Nazis or the To quote Mar Hicks here: "In 1973, at the brought into the lab, there were hundreds if "All this happened for a reason. If they hadn't would have used another picture of a pretty white of itself, if there was no systemic imbalance then yeah who cares, no need to worry about one &quot;I think that the most important voice in this as to whether it should be retired or not likeness in this sense continually used then I Lena was photographed for Playboy in 1972. Mansion, but she declined to come meet the terrible robe. After this, Lena then divorced but soon quit the industry all together. That this is not a judgement on Lena any woman who any similar career. Lena is extremely proud When she retuned to Sweden she got remarried, had She spent her years teaching computer &quot;I think like to me the most important part is used, that she's not upset that people are using started using the image for engineering purposes she wasn't upset about it. She didn't since it was cut at her shoulders she In 1997 she was the guest of honour at a as the patron saint of JPEGs. According to this so she was gobsmacked by the amount of people which she still has to this day! In 2015 she this time presiding over an awards &quot;When you first mentioned it to me I thought it issue about this one person. Surprisingly the Like I think now it's kind of...I've seen she's treated like an icon rather than like a In terms of where she is now I've also heard that that as well. You're at like this entirely using your image over and over and over again.&quot; In 2019 a reporter for WIRED tracked her down and recent push to retire the image. Lena was shocked effect. She assumed because the photo was just deal. "When I read about the girl in the class the only girl, and, well, boys talk," "Maybe Later that year Lena joined up with an is the film they produced together. To end this &quot;I'm Lena. I retired from modelling a long too.&quot;