(intriguing music) - I always have been a bit of urban exploration. So I love to break to a or building or train station. So that's one of my hobbies, used to be. What's on the roofs of buildings. What's in an abandoned building cellar and in a factory? We did a lot of work on this. (intriguing music) (intriguing music continues) At the time when I did of the Austerlitz station, But then there was no security You can just walk and and layers of paint and brick and history. And it was just so cool that I can get and get this information before it got overbuilt I went to check it out last night and it happens to be completely destroyed and under construction again. And it just goes back, to the exact same state where I shot it 25 years ago actually. (intriguing music) (slowed down gunshots) (train horn blaring) (intriguing music) (intriguing music continues) (intriguing music continues) (intriguing music continues) (intriguing music continues) (intriguing music continues) (intriguing music continues) (intriguing music continues) (music fading out) (compelling music) - So one of the big was just establishing the company and sort of determining whether or not we could actually make video games at all. My background was operating Mike Harrington, who was the co-founder, had a similar background. He had a little more game but with &quot;Half-Life,&quot; we were pretty sure we were gonna fail. And then &quot;Half-Life&quot; was successful. It was like a lot more successful than we had any reason to expect. And now we had to follow it up, right? We didn't wanna have a sophomore slump We didn't want to be a so now we had the terrifying obligation to our customers and to our fans to somehow advance our game all needed to level up - I think a bunch of by the success of &quot;Half-Life 1.&quot; We were this young, unproven company. I don't think any of us really knew what to expect when we finished the game. I remember when we started we had already set the bar - So during &quot;Half-Life 2,&quot; what we were really trying to do is take advantage of the visibility that &quot;Half-Life&quot; had created to continue to hire the best people that we could find in the world. It just got easier. The bar didn't get any lower, it went from, &quot;Hey, this weird dude who worked on operating systems wants to convince you he to, &quot;Oh, 'Half-Life' won a bunch of awards and now they're working - It was either my first was actually the going away the co-founder. - Yeah, I came to Valve We had, I think, maybe 10 or so people. Dave and I grew up together in Louisiana, so he and I had always talked about maybe starting a game And during &quot;Half-Life,&quot; &quot;Maybe instead of that, the dream could be you come and work here - Yeah. And I interviewed the day and I took the team photo. - [Jay] Yeah, there was We broke a paper mache - Yeah, I was freaking out. - Yeah. - I was actually working on a video game concept in high school, and I was seeking a with Marc Laidlaw at Valve. I guess it was the right and quite a bit of luck, and I ended up getting I guess I was 17 at the time. - So you've got a whole company that's familiar with and then we just started over. We rebuilt the tools and So we had this long period of time where we could sort of And so we spent a lot and just trying to figure out like somehow more epic. And those discussions eventually so in &quot;Half-Life&quot; one, some strange rift to another dimension. And we thought, &quot;Well, this signal to the universe that's like, 'Oh, there's this planet there. It's free air and water.'&quot; And so then we sort of &quot;Well, there's this mega organization that's resource-starved and they're just gonna come - How many years passed between? Six? - Yeah. the first two years we and a lot of those story didn't have really any or any of that. - There was originally gonna be three different alien races and the Antlions actually that was supposed to be a - It had three alien races. The Warrior Aliens, the Insect Aliens, and the Spy Aliens. And it had a Prague-like city, which ended up being the - In a lot of ways, it Everyone was sort of riffing ideas on, &quot;Well what if we did this or tried that?&quot; I remember we were really I remember we designed, what, four cities? At one point, Prague, Jerusalem, Chicago, Los Angeles, I believe. We had an Arctic base, an underwater base, an icebreaker ship, an airplane sequence that crashed into a high rise, which we cut right after 9/11. We had several Combine We had the Air Exchange, which the atmosphere from Earth. We had a train depot and so on. So we really obviously had to scale back what we were trying to do. But that's okay to go a little - I saw it almost as sophomore Like, &quot;Oh, wow, we have and &quot;Half-Life&quot; was important, you know? And so it was this unbounded ambition. - And we kept asking ourselves &quot;Well, how is this 'Half-Life?'&quot; When you have a silent you could tell people this is Gordon and throw that character into and say, &quot;Yeah, this is 'Half-Life,'&quot; but unless the environment is telling you that that's the case, it's very arbitrary. So we wrestled with that a long time. Slowly the sort of grab we started to feel like there And then at some point we realized, &quot;Oh, we can make this the survivors from 'Black Mesa'.&quot; And suddenly, for me it was the idea of it's a science team. That suddenly, you could and because they have a and they recognize Gordon, it's a continuation of this story. Obviously Alyx was totally but she had a father who and he and the other and they had extended their relationship into this new world that you were in. That was kind of the click, And that was a while till we got there. - Much like the first one where all the contributors were really collectively deciding on the direction, is we were really making and hire new artists. Dhabih Eng was an influential I think he and I were for Gordon and for Alyx and for some of the - At the time, I was looking at a lot of, I mean, really the helmets, which I think are kind of one was based off some gas masks from Europe that I had seen in some reference. I remember doing early like, &quot;What's Gordon gonna be now?&quot; And I had kind of just started, and so I was like, &quot;I'm It looked I guess kind of but black and a lot more And Gabe was just kind Like, &quot;It's Gordon.&quot; I was He's like, &quot;Why is it not orange?&quot; (Dhabih chuckles) Or something to that &quot;Why are you giving up this - People love it. - [Dhabih] Yeah, people love And it's like, I kind of was like, &quot;Yeah, I guess he's right.&quot; So we kind of went back and ended up with what shipped. - We had, I don't know, so many creatures that we tried and abandoned, you know? Not because they were bad, because we had better things to pursue. Like there were the Sackticks, the Stalkers. the Stalkers we had a little - [David S] Yeah, we shipped the Stalkers, but not as an adversary that you fought. - There was definitely an evolution of how biological versus how synthetic a lot of the creatures And I was always hoping to get to a space where it was ambiguous, you know? Where you couldn't quite or if it had grown or if it - There was some Synths Actually, we, we did ship 'em. They were at the end of the game when you're going through the Citadel. I had designed these Synths that no animator could figure 'cause they weren't built to move. - And much like some of the environments that we've seen released in some of the early &quot;Half-Life&quot; But at the time, video - In the interim before we hired Fletcher and before Viktor was there, 'cause it was the old environments, right? I don't remember how it came about that they built this level, but the idea was there and the idea was you're and you see a citizen, - &quot;TV! Free TV!&quot; - They just got into the TV store and the citizens and and you see a citizen run and he goes, &quot;Get one! Get a TV! Get yourself a TV!&quot; And then he runs off down the thing and you go in another courtyard and there's a cop with a and they're having a fist fight. And it's interesting 'cause the NPCs are negotiating and there's some animation like how difficult it is to contact. - We captured everything. We took pictures of There were really crude Some of the stuff from the very beginning made it all the way to the end, you know? Ravenholm, Antlions, Dog, Those things were just that how could they not survive, right? The other thing that was really memorable is I remember we started making really dark at the beginning, and some of the concept art shows that. We didn't think players would enjoy spending 20 to 40 hours in such a dark and a kind of oppressive setting, so the game lightened up But still maintain the - So I was trying to that the team had already when I arrived and streamline them. Instantly I think we were we had a common sort of vision and fantasy to create Orwell-like city. And then slowly, I brought the idea that we can place this in an anonymous Central which is a perfect setting because in these countries there were so many waves of invasions. We had the Ottoman Empire, and now why not the aliens? - And one of the first was they called Test Room Standards. In &quot;Half-Life,&quot; every level designer kind of had their own idea or how big steps were gonna Make sure we had some consistency. Another thing that was sort of important was just getting more and going to do research, 'cause I think a lot of the just were building very abstractly, and so we wanted to have some and have more realistic proportions. And also just get, textures to more photographic, and collect a lot of the to start building for our new library. - I joined &quot;Half-Life 2&quot; probably a year after it had started. I know that it was at least a year because I was put on Borealis, which everybody else had disowned. But then I came along and they said, &quot;Oh, well, I guess this So I started on Borealis, and of course I failed at that too. That eventually got cut. - Yeah, so I came in having I was at Looking Glass Studios, probably the biggest thing I did there was lead programmer on the AI for that too. And actually my first thing is - After I'd finished? - [Tom] Yeah, to do the AI for the guy that you're supposed to walk - There was a bunch of work put into it. We even went on an icebreaker As soon as we started to put it together, we realized how unbelievably and you could never interesting combat in it. And so it just withered - I mean, when I started that was the tech wishlist. - Yes. bare bones bullet list of tech features. And I mean, I think it to build that tech list and and leverage all the - So this was a main feature, that the light felt very, because of the source engine and the work, the collaboration between Ken Birdwell, he was a and getting the lighting right. - The math that we were using was wrong. And not only that, the math that everybody And then as I started to correct it and I realized just how bad and suddenly everything looked great, I had to go tell the hardware guys, the people who made hardware accelerators, that fundamentally the math That took about two and a half years. I could not convince the guys. Finally we hired Gary and those guys had enough pull and enough- I have a fine arts major, - Charlie and I met at college We were both getting computer I ended up dropping out to go work at 3dfx as employee 11 there. And then I think Charlie, you actually graduated, didn't you? - I graduated, then I followed - Yeah, yeah. - There were three kind of principles. One was to make something visually really rich and appealing, something more like you and the art direction and the technology to make that happen. Second one was to have So basically that could react, emote, that mattered in the world Third was to have a responsive environment with physics that mattered. - I think that I maybe realized just how big of a task we were setting for ourselves. So I was a little bit daunted by that. - We felt the pressure from and make something even Therein lies the sort of of &quot;Half-Life 2's&quot; development story, which went from being a pretty quick, &quot;Let's figure out how to do - [Tom] Yeah, and it was 10 to 14 hours a day. - [Ken] &quot;Yeah, we're Sorry. It's just not worth it.&quot; - [David S] So I ended up working with the FBI. - [Charlie] I remember and figuring it out, and I just felt like someone - [Robin] What's this mean? Can we still keep working on the game? Is someone just gonna release - [Jay] I definitely was - [Scott Lynch] I remember which he was like, &quot;So how fucked are we?&quot; &quot;Yeah, we're kind of screwed.&quot; - [Gabe] The company was I was pretty close to It's like, there was no money left. - [Karl] I can't think of Yeah, a real bullshit move. - [Marc] Are we allowed to That's what I wanna know. (tense music fades out) (gentle music) (gentle music continues) - I remember we shipped &quot;Half Life 1&quot; and the world loved it, and Like, &quot;Yeah, we did this thing!&quot; And we had a big meeting, and goes like, &quot;So all the How are you gonna make - In &quot;Half-Life 1,&quot; we significant improvements, but still they were fairly And so we had to go and on the animation system and and coming up with authoring tools that allowed you to do it. - Oh. End of the line, - A lot of this was level designer design, like figuring out how to build atmosphere. We knew that we wanted to start you off seeing the Citadel right away and we wanted to introduce you to the city with this great voice We wanted to finally do real characters. We knew that from &quot;Half-Life 1&quot;, the way that players would respond to having any character talk to them was way beyond the When we figured this out in play testing, if Barney would follow you suddenly you just love this guy and you love the scientist So we knew we wanted to just bring that way up to the next levels (loud explosion) - And the theory was if who could act realistically, that that would help the player to the other characters in the game. And at the time we decided not only did none of the technology work, but I would go talk to and they would tell me not to bother 'cause you couldn't do it. Luckily found a research by Dr. Paul Ekman, and he had just broken and how humans make expressions and he had this incredibly wonderful formal clinical description and the sorts of things with their face. - I tried this experiment on Scott Lynch's face and shooting him from so that we could get points from this grid in three space for the geometry. And we got shots of his to model a reasonable head of his geometry and then project the texture onto it, and then abstract it or stylize it enough so that it didn't look but it looked like kind of a real person. - Occasionally when it will generate a light bulb, but no, no, I don't get accosted. - [Producer] No one's asking - No, no. Or buying me beers. (both laughing) - We added Ken's eye tech because he really modeled and he went deep into the - Eyeballs was about nine months. Just on eyeballs. (Ken chuckles) But you have to do each step. You have to get the you have to get how the eye lid gets pushed by the cornea So as your eyes move around, your lower lid, your upper lid, all of those get sh shifted It was wonderful. The day I got it working, the like interesting dolls to, (gasps), &quot;Alyx just looked at me! Oh my god, this is working.&quot; - They would ask for like they wanted really fine control over looking at named no matter what direction So you had to figure out things about, &quot;Oh, maybe the upper body needs to turn and the head needs to turn - So we're in the elevator to get morning coffee, and we &quot;That's him, that's the scientist!&quot; And he was an accountant in the - Yeah, definitely, and when you've been working all day on this character in your game and all of a sudden and you're like, &quot;Holy crap, it's him!&quot; - I once ran into him at the airport. - So we cast people that in front of supermarkets, we'd - [Ken] When I was in junior high school, I took karate classes and that was my old karate instructor. - Randy Lundeen said, &quot;Hey, there is a guy holding a sign for work at who has this great face.&quot; And he took a picture of his face and he stop and asked if he could. And so it's like, &quot;Oh, this is great. I think this guy's Eli.&quot; We brought him in and paid which is what we were and so that's where he came from. - Erdine Gesiche was a Bosnian friend that I knew from school. He was like, &quot;We want the East European contingent and stuff too,&quot; - We wanted anybody to when they're playing it as a player, and so we found people from different ages, male and female, equal numbers of males and females. Sadly for them, they all had (all laughing) - Sadly for us too! - We dropped a crate of rockets We hoped for one more fighter We never dreamed it would be you. - I mean, Kleiner's Lab was of how characters could - Yeah, it was like a proof of concept. We kind of had to make that work and put everything we to test all the technology, and then know from there what can we do, what else can we do with this. - Turning it into a performance rather than just the audio Yeah, I mean that was the point where, that scene was where it all all our theories and hopes for - And it all went completely it was amazing. - The most difficult technical aspects are really kind of boring. They're the, &quot;Okay, the and now they need to jump in and hug another character. Now they need to pick up and that thing on the desk can move and where the character is can move and where the player is can move and everything about this whole And to get to that stage is this huge technical challenge But once it's done, it's just amazing. - Gordon? Gordon snap out of it. You're staring at me again. - [Kleiner] Ah, warming up nicely. - Are you sure you don't want - I remember when we got Fletcher on and he would kind of teach us about how they did things at Disney and they would bring in acting What does sarcasm look like? Certain expressions, and there's a timing to those expressions. - When you have a scene it's not always the person talking that's doing the acting, right? Everybody's acting. Even though you may be looking at Kleiner because he's the one talking, every character in that they're all doing stuff because not everybody's gonna - Yeah, I remember even just and then you see her show - Oh, that was incredible. - Heads over, gives him a quick kiss. - It tells you so much without having to say, And all this extra heavy-handed stuff. - Jake was a random demo It was incredible. - Jake was incredible. Miss that guy. - Yeah, miss that guy. Amazing technical animator. - [Matt] Yeah, I mean Jake whatever needed to be done, and just make it happen. - [Douglas] It'll just get done correctly. - [Dhabih] I think also the context of when all this was taking place, like the problems that were just things that weren't being done. Even something as simple as passing someone an object sounds super simple but actually really, really And so he really helped in collaboration with the programmers. - Dhabih wanted to do a goo thing, so I worked on the shader for that. I did the stuff for rendering that and all the little monitors everywhere that showed other scenes. Did the refraction shaders and The shaders didn't or loops or anything like that, so we would unroll it all and It got to the point where and it took so long to compile that we, I think Mike Dussault implemented Everyone's machine, the that could sit there and or do lighting for the levels or whatever. - [Dhabih] Any opportunity to kind of add to the visual storytelling I think was... - Yeah, and I think we hid the - [Dhabih] That's right, It would flip to him. And then he'd just walk out of frame. - The moment where you see him makes you realize there where you didn't know he was watching you. He's not Big Brother, that that he would be a Big Brother because that's sort of and this is much more intimate. He's always over your shoulder, watching, waiting for the moment to speak. That's where I think he lives. My name is Mike Shapiro and I am G-Man. I am also Barney. And Barney's, he's not that far from- &quot;Gee, Gordon!&quot; He's not that far from where I live. He's so fallible and he's and he's just such a good guy, you know? Not necessarily the most capable, but just really there for you. Get that thing away from me! - Here, my pet. Hop up! - I think early on, I had a and was taking care of a lot that we didn't quite understand, was kind of enjoying fucking with people and massaging reality in a way that he had a unique capacity to do. There were also aspects to him like his relationship to time is very different than In my mind, he could literally And so sometimes there was a kind of an implied hitch in his timing, or he's experiencing two or and that might be funny for 'cause you're only in one The right man in the wrong place can make all the difference in the world. - [Marc] I think as we coming out of stuff like the we started looking for more and more ways to include her in stuff. - And of course she really came to life when we found Merle Dandridge. - Yeah. We could feel her a already as a partner in creating this character, She's just got a creative and she's gonna bring a lot to it. - [Bill V] I feel like she was and humor into her deliveries, too, that other people, it was more like a soldier in a game a little bit. I mean, she did this great job of bringing a character warmth into it. - And now we're sitting ducks unless we can get this thing running. Come on, Dr. Kleiner. - Now, now. There's nothing Let's see. A massless field flux itself limit. - My name is Harry Robbins, I have a stage name of Dr. Hal. My only doctorate is in theology from the Church of the Well, I think perhaps Marc was familiar with the things I do on the radio and he thought my voice I have a monthly Ask Dr. and I am also on a couple of radio shows. Well, I'm a graphic artist. I've worked for DC Comics Well, I have some patrons I've painted many things for them. I played Dr. Isaac Kleiner after I did the voice of a I try to pronounce all the words. I make sure to aspirate I don't say &quot;didn't&quot; even newscasters today. I always make sure to say &quot;did-n't.&quot; Perhaps it sounds archaic that way. Marc wrote archaic and I would say things No, not up there! No, no! Careful, Lamar! Those are quite fragile! Oh, fi! It'll be another week before - Yeah. Longer if we're lucky. - Barney! (chuckles) You're not an animal person. (Kleiner grimaces) - It was always pleasant. They were always patient, even if I mispronounced they would correct me and And I always try to be to a one-take wonder so they But that enabled them to do it many times. And so they had a lot of and some of these are the which are inexplicable to Like, &quot;You want this guy to say, 'Have you seen my coffee cup?' 'And why do we all have to (Hal chuckles) (compelling music) - So in the same way that in &quot;Half-Life 1&quot; that that we put decals on the wall we wanted to say, &quot;Okay, what happens when you throw a grenade at The world itself needed to be more reactive to everything you did. - We used some third party code, but Jay Stelly was the one who really wrote the wrapper - And physics was, even was pretty successful, right? Once we got over the initial and we started adding breakable objects, things you could script and hammer. We added vehicles, sound and the AI, so you could and crush them and things like that. All of those behaviors, once we got just a few of those things - For everyone who masses got broken down that I assume someone's No? Okay. - Well, you see! - So, yeah. All right. So the question is whether or smaller than a space station, right? - When you want to debug &quot;Oh, this thing weighs - Yeah, you knew it was and not as much as a space station. - &quot;I think so, but I if it's closer to this or closer to that.&quot; A refrigerator. - Yeah, a refrigerator. This all came from at some point, I think it was David Speyrer, so you could look at and turn on a bunch of And one of the most with every object in the game that was physically 'cause that dictated an like the amount of force it would apply to something else when its response when it's All that stuff, had to get it right. But of course, masses is just a number. What does this mean to anyone? And so I think it was David some list of masses and objects, and he just brought that into the game so that when you looked at an object, it'd say like, &quot;100, And so over time, you all And because it was a logarithmic scale, it went from things like bread up to like space stations. - Yeah, the moon. - You're like, &quot;What? At this point, it's just - Yeah, so there would where we'd say something Do you think that's more like a racehorse or the space station?&quot; (metal creaking) - The very first physics from a development calendar standpoint was the washing machine puzzle, where you push the washing and raise the ramp for We developed that because this section of relentless pressure with the attack helicopter. Watching players play test, we felt like they needed relief from it. You see the very first training of it in the on-foot canals that you have to put the cinder blocks on, which was added to the game later, and it's sort of training of like, &quot;Hey, you can interact and create paths for yourself.&quot; And then, yeah, later the buoyancy puzzle, we added that one after And it was just kind of like, &quot;Oh, you can connect masses and then build little machines that way. (barrel thuds on the ground) - I guess at first, right, the we weren't even sure we were It was like a development tool. And so it was this beam, you could reach out and grab things and pull 'em toward you or reposition 'em, drop 'em, grab 'em from another point. But then we talked about simplifying it and just making it to where and pulling on things, and - [David S] And the wasn't really about We ended up reorganizing the game to put Ravenholm after Originally it was before at the dock of Ravenholm and then get out and go explore Ravenholm. (eerie music) - We wanted a horror area, since in a lot of ways and the horror was kind of So we at least went in one And then we had a design &quot;Preacher with a shotgun.&quot; And it was like, &quot;Oh, yes!&quot; - The important thing to know is we didn't sit down and design Ravenholm as the tutorial for all those things. It kind of kept getting things over time. And then after we got we had this idea that there would be traps for the zombies in there with physics. And there were a bunch of 'em, and they didn't all make And then some of them did work though, and we had to build a system once we added the propeller traps, and we had to make 'em the right height so you could crawl under 'em or the zombies could crawl under 'em. And then someone had the idea, &quot;Well, what if the top half can keep going and it can get you under there?&quot; We tried that and that was great. Someone had the idea of a saw blade, and Ravenholm already based on this behavior built a saw blade and went - Ravenholm was probably I had working on &quot;Half-Life 2,&quot; the whole idea behind Ravenholm and that we were going sort of force them in a position where they have to rely on physics and the context of the It's like, &quot;Oh, wouldn't it it's gonna take him 30 but he's got a barrel right there. What if he could swat that at me?&quot; So that was definitely &quot;We have physics now. This would be a cool thing to do with it and it'd be a thing that would make sense and a thing that would be scary and fun.&quot; - [Tom] One of things that was little touches like, I - We did call them puzzlets. - They weren't puzzles, - Yeah, it's this little between five and 60 seconds to resolve, and at the end you either get something or you feel a certain way. And it was really a that minute-to-minute was interesting. Yeah, he was good at that. (monster yells out) (loud gunshot) - We actually did this &quot;Okay, take all the elements in the game and have a grid of rows and and make sure that at each intersection of those cells, so that everything has a meaningful interaction with everything else.&quot; And where we saw empty cells, we would actually design a thing. - [Jay] Yeah, like, &quot;Is there - Yeah, barnacles plus &quot;Okay, we need to make sure and then blow up.&quot; - The reason we build these it makes it accessible for if you can't write code, to try out an idea, see and the entity system's A lot of things that level &quot;I have this idea for Is that fun?&quot; - Look to your own salvation! (man laughing maniacally) (loud gunshot) - Yeah, I was on &quot;TF 2&quot; at that time and I don't remember exactly, I think it was during 2000 maybe? Someone else has probably told you this and got the dates actually right. But at some point we over to &quot;Half-Life 2.&quot; I feel like that marks the sort of, in some ways in retrospect, the end of pre-production and it becomes now, &quot;Let's (exciting music) (exciting music) - Actually, the first was a jet ski, and I spent three weeks trying to figure out a I was like, &quot;Okay, none I don't see how you do this So I remember one weekend I just made the airboat. I don't know, maybe it's - So Charlie Brown had and then we picked it We started working on the canals. And we had this idea of it was gonna be kind of like a lot of where you're doing I think it was Kelly &quot;I'm playing the canals and and I'm failing, and And he's like, &quot;I wanna be I just wanna be smashing my way out.&quot; We did this whole other where we dialed down the and we dialed up the feeling of power. - Some players absolutely refused to really stay in their airboats. They wanted to get out behind every tree. For those players, we had through the lengths of the canals to keep them entertained and happy. And then there were people who just wanted to and treat it like a racing sim. And so the game had to be and sometimes that would clash. - If you stop here, a reward, basically. Either a narrative reward The lambda caches, the lambda designs, we use them a lot more in the canals, and part of that is literally I mean, I had worked on on coast maps and we didn't have that yet. - The canals are restrictive 'cause we want you to drive and we've got all these fun things to do, like you could jump over things, you could smash through things. The worst case scenario is you're trapped with people who have guns and you don't necessarily So that led to, &quot;Well, we need to add a weapon to the vehicles.&quot; - Well, part of it was the helicopter was such a persistent pain in your ass that we really wanted to put a bow on that whole experience and some vengeance, where you get So as soon as we attach it, one thing we really intentionally did is you start to drive down the tunnel and the helicopter pops down in your face and it's blocking you, but to just shoot it if And then you see it flee. And so it's like, &quot;Oh, okay.&quot; The players could connect the dots, right? &quot;Now it's my turn.&quot; So the next sequence is all about chasing the helicopter down to (loud automatic gunfire) I remember we worked pretty intentionally to make it the ultimate showdown between you and the helicopter, and some of it was by accident. I remember Brian Jacobson, who did a lot of the code for that, at one point it where it just spit out a ton of bombs. And we're like, &quot;That Make that part of the fight.&quot; We tried to make it as within reason, right? (loud gunfire) That battle was actually, in a way we designed We unraveled those elements into the levels beforehand, right? You learned how to dodge bombs, you learned how to shoot at it, and you learned how to And then we throw those with a little bit of a twist. - Canals was sort of like a crucible because a lot of good 'cause it was such a The easy thing to do is to where you just say, &quot;You can't go here and we're gonna shoot you and force you to fail and fail and the next part of the game.&quot; It's much harder to create something where the player feels they have some power and some agency, so that their skill is being rewarded and they can be creative in (loud crashing) (chatter over radio) (vehicle revving) - So basically had a whole car engine down to through transmission, down into gearing and differentials but then it turned out, 15, 20 miles an hour,&quot; otherwise you would blast through the extents of the map which wasn't gonna do anybody any good. People made jumps and nothing was working. So I was like, &quot;Oh, you I'm just gonna turn off gravity on the car for a little and then gradually ramp it back in so that it actually felt - It was interesting how like was so much about the perceived experience versus how it actually performed. - It just sounds like it's So Jay and I worked really and this fake transmission but you're really going So it's like someone just - Got pulled into coast, one, 'cause I was interested but two, it was the biggest utilizing the displacement tech since it was more of a and we were trying to figure out how we wanted to use the displacement. Meaning we knew we wanted the There was a lot more than our previous ones, given just displacement in general. We were always struggling with performance and trying to figure a little bit faster, easier, or where we could make things but not necessarily cost - It's much faster than walking speed, so you just signed up for People can just stop and get out anywhere. So now you have this trade off - We got a vehicle we so make those levels long. But from &quot;Half-Life 1,&quot; we &quot;There should be something Not like a monster popping out of you, but different reasons to So they would dot the and you knew if you went exploring, you'd always get some It might be a health pack and ammo or it might be a character interaction. So that would let the and feel like they get and they're always rewarded for that. But if they wanted to drive - I worked on the area where and you're going along a curving path and then they blow up all the rocks and drop stuff in front of your path to try and slow you down, and then you've got like There were cases early on where people would just try to drive &quot;Why would I stop at And so we really wanted them and so you'd have to get out and deal with taking 'em off your car, and then you'd be in the space. So it was really fun just jumping in there with the Combine soldiers and crafting little fight scenarios. What makes AI fights interesting is not that they're the smartest It's easy to make AI that can just perfectly shoot That's not what makes them smart. It's putting on a show that So in that fight in particular, you go up inside of a building and you get to the second floor and you're fighting guys in there, and they kind of pull you up there, there's guys up in there and as you go up and but then more guys spawn outside. There's a bunch of windows and there's a crate and when you go over to get that crate, they start shooting And it's not that the AI and starts shooting at the we have these things called bullseyes that you could place in spots and they basically would act like a target that the AI wanted to shoot. A lot of that isn't actually the AI doing this carefully crafted thing, it's more of us thinking, &quot;What makes this a neat and gives 'em that sense they need to hunker down?&quot; Like later on in the same coastline, there's a sequence where and you're in the lighthouse. And as you go up the lighthouse, it's sort of predicting where you are and shooting through the and giving you that same sort of show, and that's all bullseyes and things. Almost every game you play, you're developing a sense of mastery, and that actual sense of Piecing it all together is (loud explosion) - Hello, Dr. Freeman. The car's all ready for you. Hop in and I'll lower - We did the player drivable - Yes. - [Robin] And then we went back and used it again at the start - [Adrian] As a perfect tutorial. Like, perfect training. &quot;This is how that thing works. Don't forget 'cause it's and you have to do it.&quot; - We did actually get very Obviously you wanna be in the crane, you wanna be driving and all these things, but yeah, we did get up Again, I think it was asking somebody, &quot;We're just wanting to take could you just let us in?&quot; Try to act as nice and - [Robin] We need to where it was flipped, so you and all that sort of stuff. - Like, &quot;Oh, we're gonna flip it over and then to proceed, you have We're just trying to wrap instead of just spitting some text that tells you, &quot;This happens.&quot; - I mean, the crane was 'cause one of the worst is really high mass objects moving around 'cause they're gonna apply to anything they touch, and we have a rigid body physics system. So in the real world when a giant heavy mass touches something, usually it crushes them. We can't really crush anything. So already we're in a tricky place. The good news was we had a fixed space it could operate in, right? We could control how far and so as the level and be like, &quot;These are the only things that the crane will ever really And so we could be pretty careful around, &quot;What are the things that and let's make sure that pretty well for that.&quot; (train horn blaring) - So I worked on the bridge as one of the really early which was great. Sawyer had already built the bridge. It's actually based on Deception Pass. So Deception Pass is Coincidentally, I actually But anyway, it's this really nice bridge that if you go there, you'll be like, &quot;Oh yeah, this is the The fight against the wasn't really all put together. It definitely had that scary of going under the bridge, but we hadn't fully One of the first things I did was like, &quot;What if this was a train bridge and you had to play And getting the timing quite right took a little bit of of work, but hearing the like train horn come in and the moment of realization Probably some people die. A lot of people probably but you have this like, &quot;Do I What do I do?&quot; I don't know, it was just All credit to Sawyer on coming up with the going underneath the bridge scenario. People to this day still are like, that freak them the hell out. Like a lot of people would just, it's sort of seared in their memory, which is just, it's what we wanna do when we're creating levels. - Trying to like capture and playing with the ambient sounds just to capture the and high above the ground, it was just a fun little design challenge. - David came up with that and the first time it play tested I think the person who was play testing, their knuckles were white And of course then someone had &quot;Oh, they finally made it. They felt great. Now we're gonna make 'em go back.&quot; Oh, and the gun ship. Yeah, that came in. Yeah, so that was always fun. (loud automatic gunfire) (distant helicopter whirring) There's this thing we So when you're moving, you have a friction that just reduces your normal But what we would do is whenever players would get close to edges, we would increase that friction a lot so that people wouldn't It's just not fun for the player, right? So there was definitely a bit of friction play involved there. (wind blowing) (vehicle revving aggressively) - Gordon Freeman! Hurry, get in the basement! We're expecting gunships at any moment! - He became iconic for reasons except the performance. We were calling that or a Little New Odessa. And then I got spam or something like that. It was definitely a name and I'm like, &quot;This name is amazing.&quot; So it went straight into the game. and then John Lowry came in and acted him with his fake British accent. - Damn! Let me just send a warning and then I'll come right - So Odessa Cubbage had this whole problem of training the rocket launcher. That was a real pain. The laser guiding aspect was 'cause training in combat is 'cause people are under They're focusing on some other thing that's threatening them. It's hard to observe and draw lessons from it cleanly, yeah. So you always know it's gonna be hard if you're trying to teach something, you're trying to teach in combat. When you watch a play tester, they step out and they fire and then they duck behind cover. And so the laser dock goes onto We all hear the rocket turn and so you hear like- Five, four, three-&quot; and then the player looks and the rocket goes (whooshing). So he moves around, back And we're like, &quot;Ah!&quot; And then he ducks back again We hear the market And he peaks at again, it whips off again, - An integrated part always been important, something that Gabe introduced was the way that we play test. And then iterate really rapidly on the play test results. So you have dozens and one section of the game and you sit there painfully silently, taking notes while they and totally misunderstand And then you go and you fix that over and over and over again. - If your title is game then it can be threatening, right? Like, &quot;Maybe I'm bad at my job and I should get fired,&quot; right? And so a lot of the games industry never did any testing at all That's what basically taught We would just come up with and then we'd be like, &quot;Okay, let's put it in front of somebody and watch it happen.&quot; And then we'd very quickly start realizing that our mental model of how people are reacting to this stuff is wildly different than what we expected. (loud automatic gunfire) (compelling music) - I joined the team in January, 2000. I had met Gabe when he was starting Valve and I was at Sierra On-Line. But pretty much the first thing was, Gabe was like, &quot;So when you're at Sierra, we did this deal with you for You need to go fix that 'cause we don't like The intellectual property for &quot;Half-Life&quot; was owned by Vivendi. The &quot;Team Fortress&quot; IP So it was get back our IP, and then have the ability to experiment with online distribution. We knew we were gonna grow the team, and then part of the deal was also that we were gonna take on all for &quot;Half-Life 2&quot;, &quot;TF There was cashflow from &quot;Half-Life,&quot; we were figuring out how to like expansion packs. A large part of it was Gabe He had done fairly well at Microsoft. Not crazy well, but things (suspenseful music) (loud banging on door) (suspenseful music continues) - So I assume you guys have talked to Scott or Eric or somebody about sort of the context of the whole- - [Producer] Yes, we and Gabe about it. (Karl chuckles) - Sierra, by that point, had had worldwide distribution rights, but only for retail package product. - Vivendi was licensing We went to Vivendi and said, &quot;Hey, this is not a big deal, just agree that this is And we've spent a little some tens of thousands and we'll move on and just keep going.&quot; And they wouldn't do it. I think some people at Vivendi did not like the new deal And I think there were some hurt feelings in some quarters about that deal. When we said, &quot;Hey, the cyber cafe thing, you really can't do that&quot; coming on top of a year negotiations and torturous negotiations, I think that just struck an angry cord. We ended up filing the lawsuit, but really just on this &quot;Hey, court, will you go and say are they outside And Vivendi decided to go World War III. - We filed our case in Seattle, and they hired a law firm There was some initial there were some disputes and motions that had to and those went all Valve's way. And then suddenly the They hired a big scary law They thought, &quot;Okay, Valve's and so we need to change 'We think we're gonna be successful' to, 'We're gonna be destroyed.'&quot; The next thing we knew, here comes this big everything from canceling to obtaining ownership to keeping us from doing Where they included Scott and Julie Lynch and Gabe and Lisa Newell, who personally as defendants. - And so it was kind of like, &quot;Well, we're gonna put and then we're gonna I think that was a lot of what they felt like was their path towards winning this fight. - They decided that it would if process servers showed in the night and handed- I mean, so yeah, a real bullshit move. - It's not a legal strategy, it's basically trying to intimidate you. In other words, they're saying, take all this money from the company, but we're gonna take money - I can't think of another - They were certainly a Vivendi was a multinational conglomerate. As compared to us, their It felt very David versus Goliath. - Publishers at that time in the industry were used to being able to And so this was really as much as it was optimizing The tactics that they were using were trying to just run So they knew how much money we were making because they were doing retail and so they were just trying as just another way of draining - We were protected from so we didn't have to think about it. They did a pretty good job of on what the team could do without worrying about the I mean, that was my perspective. - So yeah, I definitely The lawsuit was something where it created all this uncertainty around whether the game's gonna come out. Vivendi was definitely trying And so even if we finished the game, they're not gonna let us release it. - There came a point used up his liquid assets and he was like, &quot;Should I put the house on the market?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Yeah, where you put the house in the market if we want to keep going.&quot; - The company was pretty I was pretty close to We went all in. It's like, there was no money left. - [Producer] How anxious - I don't know. There's certain things that I just, I'm kind of a weird person I don't really think, I don't have an emotional response to it, I just say, &quot;Well, this and we'll see how it plays out.&quot; So I don't think it was I mean, it didn't really bother me. I was diving in South Africa recently and a shark tried to bite and the people around me were way more freaked out than I was. I was like, &quot;Oh, a I should get away from the shark.&quot; Whereas other people were It's trying to bite somebody!&quot; And I just think that's how I'm wired. I don't think it's anything that speaks to my character or anything, it's like I just seem to not get particularly agitated around risk, which probably means I than most sane people would, which can be a positive or you can wreck a bunch of other people's lives being in the neighborhood (suspenseful music) (suspenseful music continues) (eerie music) - They're this rigidly Of course they're gonna have for everything they do. There's sort of an announcer and kind of comments status essentially, like how alert the world is to you. (chatter over radio) I sat down and just basically so that the soldiers and the Metro Cops would have jargon that they would use. Then I just used that to kind of encode. So that's where like Anti-Citizen One and things like that came &quot;The guy with the orange it would be, &quot;Anti-Citizen One breach. Scalpel something, sector something.&quot; So I basically just had Then I overdid it on the vocal processing. because they're all wearing these masks and I wanted it to sound - And it was very deliberate to never have to shoot somebody Like, we didn't want you killing humans. I mean, the Metro Cops are humans, but we covered all the faces up. I think it was all part of this calculated and deliberate way of saying like, &quot;Look, games don't just There's so much room in (gun clicks, reloading) - Well, the metro police share a lot of AI, and so there's an internal And one of the things we did, both for the sake of was limit the number of squad members that could be firing at the I think it's two. So if you have a squad of four, a guy who has an opportunity grabs one of those slots if it's available and starts to shoot. And if someone else, another squad member, wants to attack the player they have to find the which is, &quot;I'll get outta or, &quot;I'll go reload&quot; or, And that was all stuff that we learned building &quot;Half-Life 1&quot; and (rapid gunfire) (chatter over radio) (rapid gunfire) (loud automatic gunfire) &quot;Half-Life 2&quot; used a node graph system, hand placed nodes by would describe a really of the environment for the AI to use. - It enabled the level designers to sort of inject and in ways that were just easier for them to sort of be in control as opposed to having to grab to be able to get really (loud whirring) (monster growls) (loud automatic gunfire) - Floor-is-lava is a really Physics is really fun to manipulate. We just thought like, &quot;Hey, We'd already seen players who like building bridges and stuff, and we're like, &quot;We where I just pick up a plank and lay it across a gap Like, obvious stuff, in the whole game. - And the fact that you're means that the finesse required wasn't necessary, right? You're like, &quot;I just wanna And doesn't matter the orientation, you just kind of jump on and so on, right? And also training was free. We didn't have to train it. - Yeah, everyone got it. and everyone was like, - Laslo, the finest man of his generation. - You couldn't figure that one out. - He tells you exactly how to do it. - Someone's coming. - You there! Stop where you are! Stay on the rocks! Don't step on the sand, it Laslo, don't move. No! Help! (monsters shrieking) Dear God! Poor Laslo! The finest mind of his generation! To come to such an end. We were heading for the Vortigaunt camp, hoping to pick up some Bugbaits so these damn things would leave us alone. Without Laslo, what's the point? - You just give these NPCs a and let the fans fill in and give them something to play with. - The free men will have needs of these for parts on the path ahead. Gather them now. - Nova Prospekt and the Antlions with the pheromone balls were really fun because it lets you experience and it was another classic example of getting the most value that people could. - I remember the beach thing, the design intention was a sort of D-Day beach landing. You didn't come from the water, but you're storming up towards if I remember right, with Combine in them and you're invading the bunkers and you're bringing your hoard with you. You're overwhelming It was surprising how much I remember we did a lot the Antlions spawned. We had difficulties from time to time with design some choke point and the Antlion flow rate wasn't enough to make it feel chaotic enough. We had an atmospheric goal too, it wasn't just about, &quot;Mechanically, You wanted to feel your they're everywhere, there's And so a lot of the tuning was not just about mechanically getting past the enemies that we'd set. - Nova Prospekt was different than a lot of the maps is that in that we had that were done. We have this whole concept which are basically how they would fit together - But by the time our we knew we were coming in with And so we already knew that a bunch of stuff was gonna change because we had to support fighting Combine soldiers. Antlions look great whenever Particle flecks flying off, And so setting them up against Combine soldiers looked great, setting rights against - Those were super fun because having these Antlions in any way you wanted was really fun. And coming from the coast, just the contrast of and then just piling it full (loud gunfire) - The first time I saw one of those, I think it was Ted Backman's concept. I just thought, &quot;I can't a creature this cool in level design. These guys are really, - [Ted] I remember Kelly Bailey Things like he wanted flocking flyers and he wanted a moving guard tower, which was the first was a mobile guard tower. So I saw that and kind of orchestrating trying to get the most variety and the most breadth of shape was the correct way to move forward. - The design for that first strider map, it was something I came up with and I was really passionate about. It was all about running across and just getting one Just as you made it through. - [Dario] Even just hearing the sound, the thump, thump, thump of them walking, you know, &quot;Okay, there's a boss nearby.&quot; You just see the legs walking by, but you can't see the body. There are so many things - Honestly, there were I think that were still thinking that we were gonna bomb, that was people are just - When did you know it was gonna be good? - E3. - E3. (loud rapid gunfire) (loud rapid gunfire) (loud rapid gunfire) - Yeah, it seems like at some point there was an E3 demo that we got together that we didn't end up showing, but at least at that &quot;Oh, wow, we actually - We went through and made and everybody looked at 'em and was like, &quot;Eh, we're still not confident about this and we don't think we've hit the bar, so we're not gonna go at all.&quot; They had totally planned to go. And then when 2003 rolled around, I just remember everyone We were like, &quot;Okay, everything we've had about what this product is?&quot; And we came up with like the core theme of each one of these movies. - Oh, do be careful. - We didn't really understand the embarrassment of riches that we had. We looked at it from two angles. One was a set of technical features, a sort of conceptual listing of things that we thought were important, like physics and things like that, and then the other side was content based. What areas of the game were innovative, what areas of the story we which characters we thought were worth people paying attention to. And so it was an of which features and which content are the best showcase A lot of what was in the demos but I think the stuff to most of us at the time (steady gunshots) - [Developer] So if then it sounds like wood, scrapes and if you shoot it, (steady gunshots) - To people at that time, just to be able to pick things use things in a way that felt true to a three-dimensional reality. Maybe it's on those but people were gasping and hitting the people next to them because they couldn't really believe what they were seeing on the screen. - [Developer] There's no limitations to the complexity of those interactions. So it's this level of believable and consistent interactivity that opens the door to a wide variety of new gameplay mechanics. - [Tester] Think this will run in my 486? (crowd laughing) - That person who was talking about a 486, obviously it's just about, &quot;You must have a super computer behind...&quot; Like, &quot;How are you even doing (muffled gunfire) (testers laughing) The lines outside the and it was the thing that it because so many people were - And I remember seeing this with some pretty well known Miyamoto was in line for this stuff. - And Will Wright, I think. - Yeah, Will Wright, there was a bunch. And so then, yeah, after that was all done people on the team were just like, &quot;Okay, we are ready. We know we've got something good.&quot; It was really easy at that point. It felt like we were rolling the ball downhill after that. - Until it leaked. (eerie music) - When something like this happens, there's not like a big sign saying, &quot;You've been hacked and You start off with something that just doesn't make and you start pulling - Gabe's brother had a and they made wearable computer stuff. So he was kind of winding it down and he had one or two Unix servers that hosted the tangis.com domain name. Unfortunately they were and didn't have the latest Linux or whatever security updates on them, and so this kid from Germany was able to sort of He sat there for months, I think, he was able to sync the - I was riffing ideas for, I think in particular &quot;Counter-Strike.&quot; that information ended up on and I only two people knew Of course, Gabe and myself. And I went to ITG and said, &quot;This could only have We gotta figure out how - But I remember at some like one of those moments, Something just happened.&quot; - I remember being on my desk and he's coming like, I think we're being I didn't know what to do. I actually did not know what to do. - I remember coming in that and I just felt like someone - It's like the bit in movies where after an explosion where someone's staggering and everyone's like... What's this mean? Can we still keep working on the game? Is someone just gonna release - And I don't know if intended to. He showed it to friends. the wide distribution. - He showed it to friends, and then one of his friends - Yeah. - Unfortunate. (eerie music) (eerie music fading) - And one of the things I is how much the leak of the game, the hack of our network how much that kind of - It was like having a be spoiled for the world. That's how it felt because for people to know that that existed and not go look at it all. It looked all broken to us and it just felt really demoralizing. - Oh, man, I was seriously Yeah, I was pretty angry. So I don't know, it kind Having it be having it called the beta when it was not even Work in progress, you know? Wasn't really ready to be seen yet. - Normally the office is and people riding scooters in the hallway and doing all sorts of stuff, and it got very still and very quiet. I remember that. That was very eerie. That was the game that was We didn't know if we were - Not only did it show everybody that we were not anywhere near but all the work that we had in progress, all the plans that we were And so a lot of us just We've worked so hard. Are we gonna go bankrupt?&quot; And then all that while, Scott Lynch and Gabe were their wives being delivered subpoenas. And so it was this super dark time. - So there were two One was traditional law and they were doing their thing and issuing subpoenas and seizing devices. And then we asked our And I think Axel Gembe started to realize that he was being tracked Everything was being essentially, it was an open-sourced investigation, so he could see that and that's when he reached out to me. Of course I was insanely furious with him, but we ended up running this where I was like, &quot;Oh, wow, you must be really good We should have you come And the FBI was gonna arrest - And then apparently the right as he's about to leave because it turns out he's also guilty of a bunch of bank fraud and bank hacking and all that stuff. - He had hacked in a bunch of huge, huge companies and so they were already - How much it harmed us financially or how much the success of the game was harmed by that, very debatable. So it was hard for us to but in the end I wouldn't be a whole law enforcement Yeah, it wouldn't have - And I'm not saying we should but if we could survive that, Because at the end of the day, the special sauce was between the moment of that leak and when we actually shipped. And if you look at that it's just so not what the And so even if our competition and that executable, they're still not able to because the company kept moving forward and the company was the (gentle instrumental music) (suspenseful, intense music) (suspenseful, intense music continues) - Gabe in particular, he of an idea in his head of but it was clear that and then later &quot;Counter-Strike,&quot; it was fundamentally the thing that we were really attracted to was our ability to ship content I mean, there was a set of business goals that ended up being part of Steam, but fundamentally it was a that it was servicing that - It was a very weird time. I don't think people understand how many times we would &quot;No, you will be able to distribute software over the internet.&quot; And have people just say, I'm not talking about one or two people, I mean like 99% of the said, &quot;It will never happen. Your retail sales force But also people would say, &quot;Users aren't gonna want this,&quot; right? &quot;People want physical copy.&quot; There were so many bad faith Retail sales is not the goal, right? It's actually an impediment, it's somebody who sits - And we ended up going out, finding this company called So we ended up hiring most from that other company to build initially this sort of in game but then there was the epiphany Why don't we just download You guys go off and do it.&quot; - The decision to not only use but actually to require Steam, even in the versions that were was the most interesting because it turned out to be an for the future of the company. And a lot of us were nervous, and a lot of the people for a long time since the very beginning were the most nervous about that decision. And so it was one of the rare exceptions to our decision making process usually, and Gabe had to really step in and say, &quot;No, actually we're doing it this way.&quot; (music fades out) - I remember coming to working on &quot;Half-Life 2,&quot; which meant by the time me being a 24-year-old idiot, all I wanted to do was And I started just making the game work on multiplayer, right? Mostly just working on prediction. Like, what would it feel on a multiplayer setting, right? Getting physics objects to work. And it was just curious curiosity. Scott Dalton saw me working &quot;I'll make a map and then we play.&quot; Put the map up, we started in between building And I remember Gabe walking by my desk and I remember him going And I said, &quot;Oh, it's And he's like, &quot;Show it to me tomorrow.&quot; And he just walked away. - [Robin] I think that of the general cost we always pay to keep our code in a single code base. So when we're working on &quot;TF 2&quot; and &quot;Half-Life 2&quot; at the we're paying this continuous for the fact that it's that's designed to do multiplayer. But it means that when you where you start asking, &quot;Well, can we build multiplayer The code's all sort of built upon a fundamentally client-server (loud gunshots) - Definitely the most entertaining thing that you could throw at somebody that happened to be was picking up a toilet and hurling it at someone's head, and then having that show of your screen with name, toilet, name was very satisfying. (automatic gunfire) - [Adrian] I was also the game ported to multiplayer so then we can release the Like it meant mod makers could just immediately start rather than waiting for us to do it or someone else to pick it up. (loud automatic gunfire) (character yells in pain) - We were so heads down working on 'em, we didn't really get a chance - I remember that that that came away from &quot;We need to be building these The first thing we're gonna is the thing we built when we're We know our tools and things like that, and a lot of the anxiety over, &quot;Are we building a good game?&quot; was behind us and I felt really confident. &quot;Yeah, we're building a really good game. (tense music) (tense music continues) - We're entering the Gare d'Austerlitz, and this train station is very important because it's one of the main inspirations for the train station of City The reason why I'm produced by Eiffel, who is that there's an identical - Train station's the last And we always want to build the start of the game as late as we can 'cause we understand - In general, the train station was a really interesting problem because it was basically intended to deliver atmosphere and sort of set your - We let the level designers who were really good at this stuff figure out what was a good experience, and then we were kind of always there to provide dialogue, - [Bill V] I think it was pretty clear too that we wanted to provide incentive to the player at this point about how people were being mistreated, about how bad the situation was here, and kind of start to trigger that righteous indignation early. - All this stuff is fun to look at, but you just assume it doesn't move and you can't interact with Because all the stuff we're gonna do later with the gravity gun and everything, first we gotta start just mundane stuff, like that little empty bit of food. - [Adrian] I mean, it happens the moment you leave the train, wind comes and blows all the trash away it. - [Adrian] Can see the the guy pushing on the cases. - [Robin] Yeah, and all and you can pick those up. - We were like, &quot;It doesn't have to be bolted down, just make sure that it gets knocked over.&quot; - You, citizen, come with me. - [Bill V] This guy Something about the way he walks. - [Fletcher] The way he walks. - It's like a beer drinker. (Marc laughs) - Who would've thought to go undercover, right? That seemed to be above his pay grade, above his intelligence - [Marc] Look at that beautiful animation. But where'd his that go? It's gone! Something is not right here. - That's magical Combine tech. (all laughing) - We were trying to figure to figure out how to pick and we were all just sitting around 'cause we'd been having racking our brains. And I think Robin had and at some point I got frustrated and I smacked it off his desk. I'm like, &quot;Well, you pick that up then.&quot; And everyone kind of sat (radio beeping) - I just found it just an of a storytelling and world setting. We got to use our physics and all of those things blended together into this very simple, clean moment. - The can cup is perfect also because while it's teaching it's also telling you something about the Combine themselves - And your relationship. So it was a twofer, right? We got those two at the same time. - Physics is gonna be By the time you left you understood that and 'cause we couldn't wait before you found out If you'd had any kind of weapon, I think they would've had to kill you. And we found the longer we sort of held that away from ourselves, the more we were forced that was still entertaining Like the raid in the tenements is a whole thing that could work because the pilot could only run. - We don't very often force the player into a very specific set of actions. That's one of the few to really corral the player, and I think we ended up I think the consequences for sort of not following were quick and efficient. (Sawyer chuckles) (chatter over radio) - Get in here quick! Keep moving! Head for the roof! - So when you build the world, I start with the infrastructure. What's really interesting for me is what is not visible to the tourist, which is the courtyard, the backyard, the shafts and the smoke And every city has this whole existence, and people are usually blind to it and we tend to look at storefronts, right? - Yeah, I mean a lot of it I mean, Viktor was very, the look and feel. There was certain patterns that anybody who lived They're like, &quot;Oh, yeah, my Or whatever. And my parents are from Argentina and so they have that kind of sensibility, but a lot of it came down which was from Bulgaria, from Paris. - We have these buildings that, again, have back courtyards. They have big staircases, attic spaces, cellar spaces, and the apartments have big So this was providing for people who can hide - Help me! Stop! We didn't do anything! (loud thudding) (flatline beeping) They'll be looking for you now. You'd better run. - I remember that we see proof that the not that they were gray in any way, that they were objectively the bad guys. And then we had it to and then we really framed the reveal of the world to where you see the and it's clearly in an alert state. - The four of us, the City 17 cabal, we'd done City 17, which is we'd done Ravenholm, which is a different set of hard problems. We were like, I don't know, four months from trying to lock I mean, it was really late. I mean, we had the dates And there was a bunch of that hadn't really received - We were coming from working with pretty much every tool to going back to basically you Not much really. So John and I, John Guthrie and I, absolutely love exploding barrels. So we just used them We set them up. We loved It's just one of my favorite tools. It's basically you have a point in space that when a character dies, and then you have a &quot;Okay, if there is any pull it towards me.&quot; And then you can give it a strength. And so if somebody dies in an you can have an especially dramatic death. And we just use that I mean, you can use it to just So in that bridge, the train bridge, I put magnets directly beneath their feet, so it looks like they just, like the planks beneath just fell directly down. - I mean, they died from a broken plank, which doesn't make any sense, It was so orchestrated, I guess, because we didn't want it to, we didn't really have a lot of time to have a lot of bugs come out of it. (loud gunshots) (metal clanging) - Our team was the one You know how I said passes on the product over Well, Citadel had almost no pass. And we were thinking about &quot;Well, we just had this How are we gonna outdo that, especially when we only got We then came up with the idea of like, &quot;Well, what if we made and this is the reward. You've won the game. Enjoy. We're gonna like break all the rules and let you let you be - Picking up the enemies as ragdolls and throwing them around really came outta that development tool, because you could pick them And people were like, &quot;I Why can't we do that in the game?&quot; - It was either a week or a I had every single mechanic The Combine ball was actually that would bounce around I had spikes in the wall that we had electric fields we had the zero-G fields And we had ripping off the All that stuff all came together within an incredibly short period of time. Just a day or a couple days. Very shortly after that people were like, &quot;Eh, we're having a real hard So maybe we'll just steal and we'll bring it earlier in the game.&quot; Game development never does this, it never just materializes out of nothing in that short of time that everybody's excited and happy about, and it just felt really (curious music) (curious music continues) - I started working on trying to find another source of funding I started working on a that was for &quot;Counter-Strike 2.&quot; So we're right there, ready to sign, we're really kind of running And then get a phone &quot;Yeah, we changed our mind. I remember one conversation with Gabe, which is he was like, And I was like, &quot;Yeah, We could probably reformat but it means we lay off people.&quot; And we still had the huge uncertainty of what is gonna happen in the lawsuit. Immediately started and were able to get a deal for &quot;Counter-Strike 2.&quot; When we got the deal done, Gabe at that point was super into knives and as the deal gift for the parties, he built a knife that was And so the deal structure was, if you decide that you don't then you can just decide and we'll pay the money back.&quot; That ended up happening. So maybe a good choice to ship &quot;Counter-Strike 2.&quot; So that we got done in And then through some more depositions, Vivendi figured out that we had gotten this new infusion of capital and kind of lost their mind trying to figure out how did that happen? Because clearly part of their strategy was running us outta money. - But what we decided was, &quot;Hey, let's focus on the real nub of this and the thing that's going Getting the judge to about the cyber cafe business, and also to decide that we were right that if you were without a license, that that's We had asked for the information about what they were doing and they, I think to try to produced a big chunk They were in Korean. I mean, everything from email - And one of the things they were doing is just dumping huge to force us to go and just have somebody go and look through it. It's like, &quot;Oh, look, they It has nothing to do with the lawsuit, it's just an attempt to overwhelm us with tens of millions on the assumption that that will be particularly that we'll eventually just which plays into their hands, or we'll just eventually give up because it's finding a And then we found the and that changed things - [Karl] It just so happened summer associate, who was and I said, &quot;Andrew, hey, can and can you just tell me what's in there?&quot; - I would guess that probably went through a couple and only one was consequential. - And then they said, &quot;Well, between these vice presidents, where one says something like, 'Hey, we destroyed those Valve And I said, &quot;Are you sure it says that?&quot; And he said, &quot;Yeah, that's what it says.&quot; And so of course that between me and the lawyer &quot;Hey, it looks like your What's up with that?&quot; They wrote back and said, Whoever translated doesn't know And I talked to Andrew again, I said, &quot;Well, it looks like we're gonna have kind of a fight about this. We're gonna need an affidavit from you about your translation. Can you tell me a little bit He goes, &quot;Well, I'm a native speaker. At UCLA, I majored in (producer laughing) And I said, &quot;That's good. That sounds like we're in good shape.&quot; - The Assistant General Manager in Korea sending the letter to the &quot;I have destroyed those documents related to the Valve case, as directed,&quot; which I think is one of Karl's in his entire career. Just stuff like this never, ever happens. - I did a lot of lawsuits for a long time, I never saw anything like that. Never. Maybe there was document destruction that couldn't be proved, but that was like, &quot;We're I'd never seen that before. - At that point, Judge Zilly said, &quot;All matters of fact are You don't get to contest any of those. Now we're just discussing the settle, how much you're gonna have to - And Gabe was still pretty mad. He was mad. He really didn't want to settle. He was mad enough that But I remember sitting down with Karl and having a conversation with Karl, and I was like, &quot;So Should we settle at this point? Is (static) the right number?&quot; And he was like, &quot;Well, 'There's a difference between (Scott Lynch laughs) - Karl was done with the deposition and that was the only that particular witness being replicated and He said yes, and the relief was, &quot;Hey, no matter what, at least the game's which is kind of a... That's a pretty unusual way to that they're shipping your game to retail. (gentle music) (gentle music continues) - I've kind of been thinking about this for the last few days, and if there was one that made us successful over and I think that it was really this culture that Gabe created that were senior enough to be managers, but also passionate enough to still be individual contributors. They were willing to and their name on these big features and sometimes spend years - Yeah and it was six, seven days a week, 10 to 14 hours a day. - It wasn't always, I would But a lot of good memories though. I mean, everyone in that room We all, we knew each we trusted each other, we that we could rib each other without stepping on each and it just worked pretty well. - It was just bigger, more pressure. And I think that seriousness in some ways, there was still humor, but that seriousness kind You feel it's a heavier game. - It's the most cohesive at scale that we've done as a company. The whole company was just - I think back on this experience, and it was a really hard time, because we were supported to make the very best game that we possibly could. And given the time to do it, we're gonna ship it when it's done, even when we made unreasonable promises about when that might be in advance. And it was also at a time was quite as specialized as it is now, where people got to wear multiple hats and contribute in all So it was a rare life experience and I'm really grateful (gentle music fades) (eerie music) (eerie music continues) - Yeah, I mean part of the was the realization that bet the whole company And if we get it wrong one time, we're a big crater in the And so we started to think - The first idea when like, &quot;We're gonna do we'll do one every,&quot; how much, 12 months? - Yeah, we were gonna come out every year and a - [Douglas] So I was like, but then it just got outta hand. - [David S] So when they decided to start playing with episodic content, the promise for me that I felt was, &quot;We can build smaller and we know what we're doing, we're gonna be really good at this.&quot; - So a lot of it was like, &quot;Do more with less, keep a and retweak it to make some Like probably the biggest as far as technology was throughout the entire thing and having her behave in a way She's with you for a few but they're always pretty heavily scripted and not really in combat. Having her there and able to so there's a lot of to try to make that as fun She doesn't have supernatural knowledge, she's not just finding things but if you throw a flare out or you look at 'em with &quot;Okay, she's gonna go for that target because she can see it.&quot; - [Douglas] We were cranking We were not just partying, hanging out. - No, I was pretty much crunched that whole project, I think. - Yeah, we were crunch mode. And then same thing with episode two. - We started at the same and so we ran for an extra year that way, which allowed us to stretch and push more. - So the Hunters were initially something that we wanted to have a built into the design of the character. So it was really focused on, at the time, creating a creature that into more types of spaces. - One of the questions was, how do we keep Alyx outta your way during this really where the player has agency to make whatever decision they want inside the house and that sort of thing, and that's when we got the idea by a window and she and let you know if she saw any Hunters or soldiers out that window. And if the player started to she would find another one to go be at. - I mean, so Dario Casali this final fight in episode two. - The Striders always in &quot;Empire Strikes Back.&quot; And of course we wanted something fresh because just rocketing a ton of Striders was gonna be a repetitive after a while. So that's when we started collaborating, talking about the Magnusson and how would those all come together to make this sort of an overwhelming 25, 30 minute battle set piece. (loud shot) (loud laser shots) (loud explosion) - The citizens and the Hunters, and to a lesser extent the Strider, are all secretly in cahoots Because what we always wanted was, &quot;Gotten the Magnusson are you gonna be able to shoot it? Oh my God, the rocket's And then like, boom, you hit it so that when everyone comes out running, you really feel heroic. - [Dario] You have the car and you're not guided anyway. You have to go and take in a way that you think is best. I think it pays off, it &quot;I did this myself. I wasn't guided by level designer at all,&quot; because we give them You can kill the Hunters with you can pick up the log and throw at them, you can pick up a Magnusson device and throw it too soon and You have to learn, &quot;Oh, yeah, I have to kill the Hunters first.&quot; You can use rockets to kill the Hunters. You have options and you but we dial the tension and the pacing up pretty slowly over time. (loud shot) - [Jay] Yeah, it is pretty cool, all of of cinematic destruction - It was so hideously faked because basically he would send a Strider who would do that sort and he would just sit there and wait, just staring at this building until the player could see the Strider plus the building. framed up correctly. sit there forever. (loud explosion) But we dial the tension and the pacing up pretty slowly over time. The play tests we like the he's getting ready to shoot the rocket, and then the last and then he's down. (sci-fi whirring) (loud explosion) (people celebrating) - Nice one, Freeman! We held them off! - [Tom] People were and the team was calling - [Dario] Well, I took Both of us did. had to see it through. - We were gonna do an because that's just how you And then you want the high point to come at the end of the second one, and Gabe at one point saying, &quot;Who's the important I'm like, &quot;Lamar is going down. This is gonna be it. I want episode two to end and everyone cries.&quot; And Gabe's like, &quot;That's not good enough.&quot; - No! No! - The episodes were, a lot on what's the right amount of episode. Episode two was longer than and people like that better, but- - It also took longer. - It took longer to make as much as they liked kind of scope, right? - Yeah. are we solving a lot of making a sideways trade off? I think that's maybe - Even into episode what that would've been if we'd built it, because it hadn't been built. That was the feeling of excitement of something I can't even imagine is gonna happen with as a team. I was not imposing a top-down, &quot;This is what we must do to It's like, &quot;Oh, we have new features? What kind of story can - Well, I worked on episode three and I was working on this that basically let you create so you could raise a little It would be attached to the floor, and then the Combine soldiers and it would shatter and break So that was the primary mode, of you could build ledges for yourself to get down cliff faces. It another mode that was kind where you would extrude the and then run along it go over chasms and things like that. What else do we have? It was set in the Arctic 'cause - [Jay] I remember the - [David S] Oh, yeah, yeah. So we had the iso surfaces that we ended up using in So we had that as an enemy. It was a blob enemy, and and you could choreograph its shapes with some content tools. And then it could also split that were almost like but they were little splats And we were doing all It could pass through grates. - [Jay] You could get more where you had maybe a couple of creatures with simpler behaviors. - Oh, yeah, yeah. spend time combining them and combining them with - Story was never the boss of anything. It was always, we worked We were, &quot;What can we do? What - It was still a collection in no particular order and a collection of story And we were still like, probably another six a critical mass of mechanics and then start putting them in a timeline. I think probably a year and a half easily, depending on how ambitious we got. Could have been two and a half more years. - Yeah. It's hard to be a lot less than two years. - Yeah, yeah. - Yeah, I think we were when we moved to &quot;Left 4 Dead.&quot; I don't know, we were moving - I thought that we on episode three or do something else, because I don't know if to describe it, but element fatigue? I think we had really explored in the &quot;Half-Life&quot; universe and setting. - Arkane was building and even they were having trouble doing cool new stuff with this tool set. And if those guys can't figure out a bunch of cool stuff to do with this, I think we're running out of fuel. - Episode three's coming along, it's like, &quot;Well, what's It's gotta be bigger than even episode two.&quot; And it's like, &quot;Oh my God,&quot; you know? - It just becomes this- in this documentary? That's what I wanna know. - &quot;Left 4 Dead&quot; needed sort of an effort to ship. And so we put down ep three and it was a really and it required a lot to get out the door, and it was worth it. - Yeah, &quot;Left 4 Dead&quot; came out... - &quot;Left 4 Dead&quot; came out and this is the tragic and was it took long enough we considered going back to episode three, the argument was made like, &quot;Well, we missed it. It's too late now.&quot; (both chuckling) And we really need to make a new engine to continue the &quot;Half-Life&quot; And now that just seems, We could have definitely gone back and spent two years to make episode three. - And you can't get lazy and say, &quot;Oh, we're moving the story forward.&quot; That's copping out of your Yes, of course they love the story. They love many, many aspects of it, but sort of saying that is because people wanna We could have shipped it. It wouldn't have been that hard. The failure was... My personal failure was being stumped. I couldn't figure out was pushing anything forward. - But yeah, I mean, some of those people made &quot;Left 4 Dead 2&quot; and then &quot;Portal 2.&quot; - Yeah, we did other things instead. - It's not like that - Right. they may have gotten that and not- - And given up something else. So it's hard to say. - [Kelly] But a lot of us for eight plus years. - We saw a bunch of to go explore more multiplayer because not only just but internally, we found ourselves wanting to play a lot of multiplayers. - It sounds silly to say it 'cause we're a relatively big company that has a bunch of stuff, but There's 300-something people here. And so we're working on a and it's like, people are people are passionate about &quot;TF,&quot; people are passionate about and &quot;CS&quot; and &quot;Dota, &quot;Deadlock.&quot; I mean, there's a lot of things there. And I also work on our hardware, so I've worked on Steam Deck and the original Steam Unfortunately for any decision we make, somebody is gonna be unhappy, but hopefully we're making with the choices we do make. - If it weren't for the episodes, there'd be no such thing as &quot;Dota,&quot; and I know that sounds really weird, but it was the things that we learned in developing the episodes that led to &quot;Team Fortress&quot; to more rapid updates. - I think everybody that misses the working on that thing, but it's also hard not to be like, &quot;Man, I've kind of seen every way that you can fight an And so you wanna get until you can come back - It was easy to think about VR being a vehicle for &quot;Half-Life&quot; because that was a big and kind of a core reason And I think like one of the things we have internally tended to is innovation. Gameplay innovation is oftentimes enabled by a technological innovation. Clearly there was a ton and so yeah, it's an interesting to think about what that means for future &quot;Half-Life&quot; stuff, for sure. - The ending of &quot;Half-Life Alyx&quot; is somewhat a self-critical realization, so that was super satisfying who were specifically and those sets of designs. I think that &quot;Half-Life&quot; and promises made to customers to capitalize on innovation to build game experiences that haven't been involved previously, and I think that there are no shortage of those opportunities facing (gentle music) (music fading out) - [Kleiner] Oh, fiddlesticks. What now? (glitchy audio SFX)