- Nearly there, but I'm so ready to be I just wanna start my days This video is sponsored by Shopify. Today we're gonna talk about the coffee-related advice And more than talk about it, we're actually gonna test it. Now, if you don't know I am genuinely quite surprised. He is, I think, the most science communicator on the internet. He's a Stanford professor, but it's his podcast, the &quot;Huberman Lab,&quot; that is incredibly successful. In his words, it discusses science and science-based tools for everyday life. Now, one particularly viral aspect of Dr. Andrew Huberman's sort of advice is his morning routine, something that people have - I tried Andrew Huberman's - Now, these protocols are so popular that if you go to his website, well, that's what they're gonna give you in exchange for you signing It's kind of have my daily that's the sort of carrot to sign up. So it's a thing that people want. And loads people have looked at these, tried them, tested them, and people ask me about them In there, he makes a very regarding your coffee in the morning. - I purposely delay my caffeine intake to 90 minutes to 120 One of the factors that is the buildup of adenosine. I wanna make sure that I or even early afternoon One of the best ways to is to drink a bunch of caffeine, block all those adenosine receptors, and then by early or late afternoon when that caffeine starts to wear off and gets dislodged from the receptors, a lower level of adenosine is able to create a greater - Now, that's very compelling. The biology, the biochemistry It's presented with a as if this is fact. Makes sense that I should I should wait and I will But there's an important that I don't think is This may be science-based but the science behind This recommendation is It's a recommendation but none that have asked and There are no meta-analyses There's no single study that looked at, if you skip your morning do you prevent an afternoon crash? So while the biology may be correct, this question has not been Now, you might say, well, there's kind of from people who've taken the advice and say they don't have The problem with that data is that they have made an effort. They've invested some time and energy into changing an aspect of their lives. They are motivated to see an outcome, so there's some bias in that data. I'm interested in, what Now, I'm gonna bring up another internet-based the king of clipped audio Now, he is a nutritional PhD with a background in who has a YouTube channel about the use and abuse of science in the world of sports, all those kind of things. I'm gonna steal from Layne, I'm gonna steal one of Which is he made a video because someone had suggested that drinking coffee raises cortisol, and that is true, drinking coffee raises the stress hormone cortisol a little bit. And high levels of cortisol are associated to high levels of body fat, actually storing more body fat. So someone made a video saying, skip coffee because it will and therefore put on body fat. And he makes the point that coffee spikes cortisol, but if you actually look at that isn't what you see. - If we take people and we have them take and all other things are No, they do not. In fact, sometimes, the opposite happens. - And his argument is, what you've got here - You find a mechanism, and you say, &quot;Ooh, this That means you're gonna get Outcomes are not just a single mechanism. Usually whole-body outcomes of hundreds, if not all occurring at the same time. It actually results in outcomes. - And so you can't just pull one mechanism and expect it to sort of directly produce a certain outcome in the world of biology, because we are weird The thing about mechanisms is you can just totally cherry-pick them. I'll give you an example. Adenosine, mentioned earlier on, well, genuinely, it increases hair growth and hair thickness. And so if coffee does cause you to have higher levels of then drinking coffee should give you a fuller, thicker head of hair. Clearly ridiculous. Or is it? So this brings us back to Are we looking at just and actually the outcome, the outcome of having an afternoon crash, may have a bunch of potential and this particular one that we're testing isn't the most important? That's the kind of question I'm interested in asking and answering. And this brings us back regarding delaying your Are we just dealing with and actually there are and more complexity that plays of having an afternoon crash? Here's what we're gonna do to test it. Every morning, within I must consume coffee, but I won't know whether or Now, you're thinking, whoa, whoa, whoa! There is no way you could and drink coffee every morning without knowing if it's Decaf brews differently. It tastes different. You're not gonna be blind in And this was a real challenge, because I wanted to still rather than take, say, a caffeine pill or a placebo in the morning, because coffee is more than just caffeine. In the end, we decided the They produce frozen capsules As a disclosure, I have worked They're not paying to be a part of this. In fact, we paid full that we've bought for this experiment. But because we can use different roasters, different roast levels, it adds a nice level of Plus, when I drink the coffee, it will be with a good slug to further mask the taste. Each capsule will be labeled that I will log each day and I won't know what the After the first two hours after waking, coffee consumption will return to normal. Anything that I drink I will log down in terms of what time I therefore roughly how That'll be logged through the whole thing and coffee drinking Then, to test for the afternoon crash, every day between 3 and which is a psychomotor vigilance test. It's basically a reaction test where you respond to something on a screen and the quicker you tap, the faster your responses are. It's commonly used. NASA make a nice little on the International to sort of test people's and how well rested they are, those kind of things. And then there will also be covering how tired I feel subjectively. Am I exhausted or not? Am I fatigued? Am I sleepy? Do I want to lie down? Do I want to close my eyes? Is it difficult to hold a And that will be the kind of measurement for the afternoon crash. And at the end of this, we should be able to see between having no caffeine and no afternoon crash, or not. Now, again you're gonna say, well, hang on a minute, N equals one experiments: but they're not that useful. If it's just me doing the Good point. I have for this one roped in the rest of the team here so five of us will be taking part. Again, that's not a very but you would expect that at least, at least one of us should experience a correlation between no morning caffeine I, however, do have a different theory about this whole thing, which I will tell you later on, and so we wanted to So all of us will be wearing wearables throughout this whole thing that will track things like and sort of how much we're exercising, those kind of things. So we'll have some additional metrics alongside all our caffeine consumption to see a little bit more And so in 30 days, we should hopefully have is Andrew Huberman right? Now, all of this has been a fairly complex thing to get going and it's been a quite and I'm grateful to the for supporting this particular video, making it happen. I've been a huge fan of Shopify now for pretty much 16 years, and I'd like to tell you Shopify is a commerce platform that allows you to start, I have a lot of experience with Shopify, going all the way back to 2008 when Square Mile Coffee Roasters, we first started selling online. Things were simple then, and over the years we've and things have gotten more complex and Shopify has grown and supported us right the way through. In fact, when it came time when we had Tens Hundreds Thousands, the merch business that we have here, of course we were gonna Everything is just so easy; from creating your store, you can build one that looks great very easily, very quickly, through to things like integrations with, say, third-party warehousing that allows us to manage stock in different continents Shopify has been the platform with one of the best converting checkouts in the world at the heart of it. So wherever you are in whether you're starting a or running a large business, I would strongly recommend And you can do so with a free trial if you go to shopify.com/jameshoffmann and see for yourself how great it is. Thank you so much to Shopify So here we are, 30 days and I have to say, I'm glad it's done. I didn't particularly in a funny sort of way, and I don't think any of the team did enjoy the study that but we persevered. And the good news is we under sort of study technical terms. We all did what we were supposed to do on the days we were supposed to do it, we all logged all of the data. And so, you know, I think about this little tiny little study and ways you can criticize it, and I think quite accurately you could say the number of participants It was just the five of us in the team. A larger number would've been better, but I still think there's Let's get to the answers. If we skipped caffeine did we prevent an afternoon And so, you know, under our terms, we defined an afternoon crash in two ways. There was the subjective, how did we feel, which and then there was also the an objective measure of our whatever you wanna call it. Here we go, here's the first one. We're gonna look at whether in the first two hours that kind of subjective measurement. Red is caffeinated at The kind of green is decaf so no caffeine. And what we can say is statistically significant difference in our perceived fatigue based on whether we had caffeine in the first two hours or not. It's important because you're well, hang on a minute, actually, that box kind of and that line in the middle, which is the median score, is also higher for decaf. So it looks like you were actually worse if you didn't have caffeine At the top, you'll also see a p-value. I'm not gonna define I'll just say, for what we would consider statistically significant, a p-value should be smaller than 0.05. 0.291 is not smaller, and so this was not a statistically This difference could have So what we can say is there's It didn't make any difference, but did it make a difference No, it didn't. Almost identical results here. Again, you could say, but the median line is a little bit higher on the decaf box plot. Doesn't matter. Again, at 0.313, not Basically, whether or not had no measurable impact whatsoever in any of us over the 30-day period. So I would say, is Well, under his explanation for it, no, I don't think so. Here's what I don't understand. Your levels of adenosine are at their very lowest upon waking. It accumulates during the day, in theory makes you sleepy and then while you're asleep, And so when you begin your is theoretically when your Why then am I worried about when if caffeine is an antagonist that stops adenosine working, well, there's not much so why worry about caffeine impacting me when it's not gonna do much? It's not gonna interrupt a What I don't get is if well, if I'm waiting two or three hours, my levels of adenosine will be higher, that caffeine will be much more effective at interrupting the Why am I not gonna have a crash, well, a little bit later so my afternoon crash to 5:00, 6:00 PM by delaying I don't understand that. But I do wanna talk about Because I'll tell you something, we all had bad afternoons not the same day, but we would all say over the month, we had afternoons where I have a potential theory and we'll have some fun Here's one of the most interesting things about the whole study. We looked at everyone's This is true for all If we did not have caffeine we didn't make up for So if you looked at the days where we had caffeine those days overall had than days when we started with decaf and did not have caffeine This suggests that coffee drinking is perhaps more ritualistic We - I would think, we couldn't tell we hadn't had caffeine first thing in the morning. You know, I thought I'd be able but I can't. And weren't then two &quot;Oh, I really need a hit of caffeine. I'm gonna consume more to make up for my kind of experience That isn't what happened at all. And so there ended up being days where we just didn't have One of those days I Can't say for sure, but I'm fairly confident I because I don't feel good. But I had two other and I had no idea about it whatsoever, which is sort of heartening. I don't feel like an addict. That feels like a very positive thing. But it would mean that if of skipping coffee for there's a pretty high chance You will consume in the days It's for some people why By skipping a meal, they just eat less by Here's my alternative hypothesis: if you skip the first coffee of the day, you drink less caffeine, you sleep better, and therefore you have because you're better rested. That's it. Let's look at what the data says. The first signs are are very encouraging. We looked at the impact of sleep on your fatigue score the next day. Pretty simple. If you have a bad night's sleep, are you more likely to And the answer is yes. There was pretty good that showed the better your sleep, the lower your fatigue score the next day. There was a correlation there that I would say is decently strong. That's good. That's not surprising. Is anyone surprised by that? I don't think any of us but it's nice to see it As a small caveat, the sleep data here is a calculated score based on and then time asleep So if you needed eight hours sleep and you slept for eight hours, you would have 100% sleep score under this particular wearable. Let's ask a different question. If I consume more caffeine on say day one, will my day two fatigue score be higher? That's what we'd expect to see if caffeine's messing Like you might not sleep as well and so your fatigue might be lower. And yes, again, that's what we see here. Pretty good, you know, decently strong correlation in the data of statistical significance What we saw, the more the next day, a little bit Now, interestingly, the subjective measurement. If you look at the PVT results, no, there's no significance there. Now, I'm glad we did the because it was interesting, but from my own kind of you can definitely just try a bit harder and kind of juice your numbers. Like, attention really seemed that correlated with lower scores, and so choosing to be more kind of had an impact. And that is sort of which is a mark against PVTs, but still interesting. So here what we saw was actually no real correlation between the two. If you had more caffeine, it didn't really impact Now, this is really important. I could stop showing you any more data and I could say, based on this, it seems that my hypothesis is true. Skipping caffeine in the morning reduces your caffeine consumption and therefore you won't crash as much. But, to round this out, we looked at total caffeine consumed and sleep resulting from that and we found no correlation between how much caffeine you had and your sleep score that night. Surprising, because we and higher levels of but I feel like the is be skeptical of simple mechanisms impacting complex kind of outcomes. The quantity of your sleep can be impacted by so many other things. How hot is your room? How noisy is it where you are? How light is it? What time did you eat? What did you eat? Have you had alcohol? There's loads of different mechanisms playing into the quantity Be wary anytime anyone, gives you a nice simple mechanism as a thing to use and abuse In this case, it's skip to prevent adenosine buildup There's the neat little mechanism. I can't even say, you know, if you reduce your caffeine Because again, while those and can be shown to interact, that may not be true based on the other things Be wary of single mechanisms. They are a big red flag. They're very appealing. I am compelled by them as The idea that a single supplement or a single exercise routine or a single little biohack it's desirable, I want it to be true. But we are weird, complex, who don't particularly We've learned a lot, we've We're still very much learning. Now, you can say this was not conclusive, but I think it was, and I For us, we designed the Dr. Huberman, if you're watching, do let us know if you We'll happily share the Not gonna share it publicly because the team's but if you wanna see and pick holes in it, you're very welcome to do so. But yeah, there you go. That's our experiment with Dr. Andrew Huberman's I'd love to hear your comments down below. Did you enjoy this? Is there a thing that I can think of a few more things. We do have stuff like caffeine timing, and so maybe serum caffeine Maybe there's a correlation there between that and sleep quality. Who knows? But I feel like we've done But again, let me know your thoughts. What do you wanna know? What haven't we answered? I'd love to hear from you down below. But for now, I wanna say thank you so much for watching and I hope you have a great day.