This is the famous pale blue dot image taken by Voyager 1, showing our Earth as a tiny pixel, 6 billion kilometers away. This picture was but the elements and materials that made us call home. But this date is significant. Just 34 were switched off forever, leaving Voyager 1 has become the furthest man-made object in space, But why were the cameras turned off? And In this video, we're going to look at how the they might see if they were turned back on. a giveaway of this awesome Space Shuttle Lego The Voyager space probes have broken so many are they the furthest objects in space, longest amount of time, over 45 years. that time spent in the harsh environment were designed here on Earth in the 70's are technology that was way ahead of its time, and Voyager 1 has two vidicon cameras onboard which using analog to digital technology. They had and captured 8 bit images in grayscale. One had a detail as the probe passed close by. The other had capture the smaller details of each planet solar system as it grew smaller and smaller reached these cameras, it went through an optics This was a filter wheel that contained violet, take multiple images of its subject using each of it would only allow light from that color absorbed. The images were still taken in with different amounts of brightness, where the Once these images were sent to Earth, they color and combined to form a full color image. since our eyes have three color sensing cones: vision with a range of colors. But with Voyager, After the light passes through the lens and The first thing the photons hit is a see-through which has a photoconductive target plate just free electrons are created. The higher the more free electrons are created. These free leaving behind gaps on the target plate. After electrons towards the target plate to scan the fill in the gaps, creating an electric current. be transmitted back to Earth. But transmitting difficult and many things could go wrong, that's weren't around back then, but they are now - and NordVPN is the fastest VPN out you can connect to any one of the 5000 servers How many times have you gone to watch a YouTube available or doesn't even appear in your country? a server in a different country and suddenly all But it's not just about virtually hopping around Threat Protection which protects you from those any harmful websites or files. It scans URL's of to protect you from danger. NordVPN works on up to 6 devices at one time. To get 4 months of We've seen how Voyager's cameras convert the that? Each image that Voyager captured would take over half a megabyte. This doesn't sound your spacecraft is billions of kilometers away, Back in the day when Voyager 1 was much closer, bits per second. At this rate, it would image back to Earth. Now, the data rate meaning it would take over 8 hours just to 1 is now 23 billion kilometers away, so that Since the camera can produce an image the signal from the vidicon camera is stored over time and can be transmitted whenever with Earth. But why hasn't Voyager's To answer this, we need to look at where Voyager 1 blue dot image was taken from a point in space the spacecraft was so far away, that everything heading on a path that would eventually make system and reach interstellar space. So in wanted to prioritize the instruments that would 1 had left our solar system. But Voyager 1 was had decades to go before reaching interstellar the spacecraft at that point, the engineers Like many spacecraft, Voyager 1 is powered by material and turns it into electricity. Every Watts - and now, Voyager 1 is only producing 57% alone uses just over 40 watts of power. And so shutting down various instruments onboard Voyager the team also removed the software onboard camera. The computers and software here on Earth exist anymore. And due to the cameras and their outer space for several decades, it's likely that assuming the cameras were still in good condition, Many think that Voyager 1 is so far from the sun not true. Despite now being 23 billion kilometers brighter than the Moonlight here on Earth, so there just isn't anything interesting or big If Voyager took an image today, it would be planets as tiny faint pixels. Perhaps the most billion kilometers, the star constellations Voyager wanted a different perspective of our light years just to see a slight shift in the millions of years after we are gone and long If you'd like to support the channel and make where you can give your input on each video and now, time for something really special. In the Space Shuttle Lego set! All you have to do is about your favorite space moment of all time. next month's video. Thank you very much for