ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome to where we discuss science for everyday life. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, my guest is Rick Rubin. Rick Rubin is one of the most creative producers of all time. The range of artists with whom is absolutely from artists such as LL Cool Fugazi, Beastie Boys, Jesus Chili Peppers, Metallica, of a Down, Joe Strummer, Kanye and many, many more. Not surprisingly, is considered That is, people want to know able to extract the best many different people in so Well, as today's Rick's expertise in extends well beyond music. In fact, our into the realm of what specifically and generally music, of course, but also and essentially, all domains ideas, and production of Our conversation ventures such as what is does it stem from, everyday, tool-based including those that and that he's seen other That took us down some ranging from a discussion to how the with our conscious mind, and conscious mind interact with Indeed, our conversation got but all with an eye and an the practical tools can use in order to access We also spent some time talking is all about creativity and The title of the book is The by Rick Rubin. This is a book three times from cover reading it a fourth time. Because it is so rich with that I'm applying in not just my work but I cannot recommend Rick has an incredible ability of the creative process in a way So if you're in music, it will certainly be but it is not about music. It is about the And so whether or not you creative or not, or seek to be more creative, Rick's sheds light on what I believe of what makes us human beings. That is what allows us, to look out on the to examine our inner with truly novel entertain us, scare us, make us All the things are essentially contained And to be able to sit down how the creative and his observations about how is and was truly a gift. So I'm excited to share his One thing that to notice about is that Rick is incredibly about the creative process. In fact, he very graciously, should add, offered to about creativity. So if you have questions about please, put those in the And in order to make those for me to find, please, put in capitals, then colon or and then put your I do ask that you keep the so that I can ask Rick as many We will record and we will post it as a clip on Before we begin, I'd that this podcast is separate roles at Stanford. It is, however, part to bring zero cost to about science and to the general public. In keeping with to thank the sponsors Our first sponsor is Maui say is the most nutrient-dense available. Maui Nui spent nearly a USDA-certified, to help balance invasive on the island of Maui. I've talked before and we've had guests have emphasized the critical protein, not just for muscle but also for repair of all tissue, on a day-to-day basis. And the general rule is 1 gram of quality protein, per day. With Maui Nui meats, you can and you can do that an excess of calories, critical for immediate I should say, that are not only extremely but they are also delicious. I particularly like their I also have had Maui Nui including ground venison, and I love the taste It's lean, but it doesn't taste It's incredibly delicious. So if you'd like to go to to get 20% off your first order. Again, that's to get 20% off your first order. Today's episode is also Thesis makes custom have probably heard me a fan of the word nootropics, means smart drugs, doesn't work that way. The brain has neural It also has neural circuits circuits for task switching and There is no such thing as a and therefore, the doesn't really apply neurobiologically speaking. Thesis understands has designed custom tailored to your unique needs. I've been using Thesis and their nootropic been a game-changer in the realm of cognitive work. My go-to formula any kind of cognitive work That's the one I've been If you'd like to try Thesis you can go online to You'll take a brief and Thesis will send you to try in your first month. Again, that's and use the code Huberman at box. Today's episode is also WHOOP is a fitness that tracks your daily but goes beyond activity to provide real-time feedback and sleep schedules in order Six months ago, I started as a member of their as a way to help WHOOP advance human performance. And as a WHOOP user, firsthand the health It's clear, based that WHOOP can inform you how to change your sleep habits, habits, even how to of your nutrition, exercise, to maximize your health, and performance. So whether or not or you're exercising WHOOP can really how your body functions and how to really program and exercise and many in order to really optimize including your cognition. If you're interested you can go to join WHOOP-- dotcom slash Huberman. That's and get your first month free. The Huberman Lab podcast that we are now partnered because Momentous of the very highest quality. They ship internationally, single-ingredient formulations. If you'd like to access on the Huberman Lab podcast, spelled O-U-S, so And now for my discussion Great to have you RICK RUBIN: Thank It's a pleasure. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So of and in particular I confess that creativity is the Because you can find that is, on convergent thinking and there are and they take on But in a strict seems that creativity to do with either or coming up with new elements. But as I went into your I've read it twice, I feel so blessed gotten an early copy from you, But having gone I'm now convinced that be an internal source exists on its own right. And the example that you is serving as an anchor, and is this idea that are a little bit like a cloud. If you look at it might think that it looks a certain shape and texture. But then you look at it a moment different. And if you look at it very well could be gone. And the reason I as such a powerful hook for and why I think neuroscientists have never actually about creativity that you knew in person but, I don't have many put Joe Strummer among the short And I remember once an interview He was off in different But at one point, that, if you have an idea, And you may end up throwing it will be gone. And I remember that, I have a whole system that I But what are your Joe said, this cloud form in one area of the book? But then I think it's in different ways. How did that come does it serve you in trying to-- I don't want to say to access creativity? RICK RUBIN: I think about it is like a dream. It's like, if you think they don't necessarily When you wake up, you the whole thing. Then, if you start writing and they may not There'll be a series and maybe, someday you'll be able to look back and maybe not. And that's how the art is like we're making for feeling in ourselves. And it could be a feeling a feeling of interest, I want to know more-- a feeling of leaning forward. And we're following that we feel there's something here. There's something here. I want to know more. I want to know more. I want to know more. I'll say, it's not an It's a different thing. That's why it's hard because it's so elusive. ANDREW HUBERMAN: to a podcast by our I think it was an episode where Balaji, who's thinker-type guy-- this is like an He says something that I'd love your thoughts on. He said, look, we to lever press every reward on every or every odd number press or But a human and a for like prime number presses. You can't actually train that. And then you think about the that we follow life, from when and what he said is the fact that we may not actually schedules of doing things. Like every time I'm I assume that's the but it might not be optimal, When I was reading your book, a set of things to pay attention to-- you talk that none of the comes from just within us. It can, but it's always being And so what I started to I read through the book, was of what Balaji was saying be a language for call accessing creativity. There's a process, but that is a little bit like trying and access prime numbers. RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Like the that we end up in a where I'm confident we can Because what's remarkable You show and inform the process. But there may not be a for saying, do this, then and you'll have something Does that capture it? RICK RUBIN: Yes. I think language is insufficient It's closer to magic ANDREW HUBERMAN: So when do you think that access to this creative Because we start to impart Like will it get likes? Will people like it? But also all the things that we're not paying of this table, we're discarding We get, quote, unquote, Do you think kids are, just more creative than adults? RICK RUBIN: Yes. Kids, they're open, and They don't have They don't know how things They just see what is, and if we learn much more than if we-- Most of us select from an available to us to, to make sure that we and to feed ourselves the primary functions first. And then we learn things about and we learn things about Or we're inspired by someone and we want to do it And all of those things of the creative process. They can be tools to to be able to do it yourself. Like if you're a imitate a singer you really like and then eventually come It doesn't always start But if you're three years and you try singing, you're You're singing with And when you make making it based on not knowing. And I think I had the of starting making music was helpful, because I didn't And so it wasn't intentional I just did what but I didn't realize that other people wouldn't do. ANDREW HUBERMAN: that there are no new ideas. I disagree, because I'll see or hear something different enough. RICK RUBIN: I think a new combination of existing I think that's how it works. I don't know. But I will say, it does are most interesting to me have joined together in a way that I've never seen before. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You mentioned or you see hints of creativity that it's a feeling, and I a great source of information. Which once people will realize is in the skull, but the nervous in the body, the whole Philosophers have argued but it's a silly argument. It's also true were to amputate all my I'd fundamentally still be me. Right? The same is not a big enough chunk of my I would be a fundamentally I'd still have the same name number, but I would Who knows, maybe better? The signals from the body we are pretty generic. Like I can think of 50 that we could talk And we could define it and and serve it up like sushi But the body sends signals we have a course It's like, oh, my stomach or I'm not sensing my stomach. Or oh, that feels good. It feels warm. It feels cold. Like most of us aren't how to interpret those signals. So it's almost like you have and there isn't a lot more. Whereas, we talk about our depending on how hyper and how much emphasis they it's near infinite. Not infinite, but near infinite. So for you personally, that you're on the end of maybe you're listening or you're hearing something. And you're like there start to deflect Right? Do you feel that in your body or is it a thought RICK RUBIN: It's a ANDREW HUBERMAN: RICK RUBIN: No. It's a feeling of-- I would say it's like ANDREW HUBERMAN: Do you you experienced that? RICK RUBIN: Probably I was three or four years old. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Three RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Wow. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is there that the Beatles have RICK RUBIN: No. Maybe you just weren't in the right way. There's no right or I can love the Beatles, and you There's not-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm glad I was a little concerned. I was a little scared to I know my taste in obscure and I've always felt must be something wrong with me. I like their songs, there's no juice for me there. RICK RUBIN: I think there was an eight-part series which is out of print. But I can try to and we can watch that make the case for the Beatles. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Nothing against them, it's for a story, but like Ramones. I saw that, and I was like, everyone had to to Ramone, a lot of There's so much drama in and just-- but to me, like kids from New So I think different things Right? RICK RUBIN: Absolutely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: to a question of when something and you're sensing let's say in the studio listening to something how do you translate that, How do you translate that into And again, this could be about or podcasting, for that matter. How do you say that, when they might not even And I'm guessing a lot RICK RUBIN: Yeah. Sometimes, they don't. It depends. When we're in the-- I'll try to be in as we're talking engage with it in that moment. So it's not much good. Let's say I was producing and you played me something, and It wouldn't be so helpful for It'd be better for us to where we could try things So the first thing is I wouldn't It would be more of making a actionable. We try it, and then And either we're moving or we're moving away from-- from it, and we never know. And so it's always And maybe a simple way to if I gave you two you to taste them and tell Usually, it's pretty when you have two choices, and I think most creativity That's very different how this is going to perform on That's different when I'm tasting these two want to finish eating? And if I were to say, but it needs a little salt, and It's like, maybe I and you know when you taste it. It's like it's that simple. Being in tune enough to really know how we feel that other people might which is part of the challenge. It's like, if everyone and you listen, and you're it's important to be able And it's a disconnect, when we go to school, it's to And in art, it's different, as a scaffolding to be Sometimes, they're helpful. Sometimes, they're not, even impose our own rules So we can decide to make a-- we're going to make a going to use green and we're allowed to use. We decide that in do we solve the problem knowing It can-- because an infinite number of choices, It's like, sometimes more So limiting your palate forces you to solve Now, in our digital you can make anything digitally. There's no-- there if you didn't have a you couldn't record guitar. Or if you couldn't there couldn't be orchestra Now, you can just call So there's infinite choices, don't necessarily lead to final works. Understanding how you feel without second is probably the single to practice as an artist. Or a skill set to develop as feel, and own your feelings. And the key to so I know what's right for you. It doesn't work that way. It's just I know for me, and the is to demonstrate If I'm undermining my taste it defeats the whole That's not what this This process is I'm doing me, And you can like it or is still how I see it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love having trained graduate a graduate student, to have mentors, one of He's dead now. Actually, all my suicide, cancer, cancer. The joke is you don't So they all had a so they're laughing about RICK RUBIN: I thought you all ate the poison mushrooms. ANDREW HUBERMAN: No, but you're the common And I thought, oh said, kind of just So it's a little bit eerie. But in any case, his name was Ben-- the one thing I and the one predictor I will never develop it are the Because they're perfectionists that through the feedback of others. He was always looking that was putting up a little bit Not so much that they because it can be You can be wrong for but you can also be wrong But people that just had almost or to believe in And I'm hearing some that in what you're describing. I also think that about the human empathic process where when we see and they seem to really to what anyone else is doing-- I guess the crazy person on the where we go they're just and it's just crazy. But when somebody seems or the emotion think there are a good who feel a gravitational And the best example is I remember growing up we were the first-- we were the sagging clothes thing, and one year in school. Then, there was a bunch and guys were wearing sagging Next year, we come back, who were making fun of and that's when I was like, most people don't RICK RUBIN: No. ANDREW HUBERMAN: like because of the certainty And so the question then of creative stuff, what's real? What's not real? It's almost like the most convincing captures a good number of-- a good fraction of not what the creative They need to actually Do I have that right? RICK RUBIN: Well they're Like coming up with a story someone else is a more of a commercial endeavor ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I was you describe, again, about the creative for me, again, it serves And then I think about the of like strategy implementation and then or miraculously, I turn a few and there's a description of to accomplish something-- eat, mate, find the requirements of living-- it requires a This is something my and I've been obsessed with. And in that more we know that the playbook The rule set is more narrow. Now, at some point, with a new creative that broadening vision is or broadening thinking. RICK RUBIN: Well, be a broadening or a narrowing, from the standard. The reason we do this new that maybe you already knew And for that to be the case, It's not unlike what Comedian makes you laugh. Usually, what they're but you know that it's right. Just no one says it has said it that way before. But it's always the truth It's like that. It's the same idea as that seems really but it seems like nobody else it out. And I feel like science because how much of science, over your head, it's like I well, we knew that forever. No one knew it, but do It's like it's so obvious. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Absolutely. RICK RUBIN: It's so obvious. And I think another is this accepting we When we think we know things, We think we know This is all that's possible, But in reality, who's Who's to say any take all of what we and decide to throw all of that And we'd probably create ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd like and acknowledge our Athletic Greens is an all-in-one drink that also contains and adaptogens. I started taking Athletic So that's 10 years Greens every single day. So I'm delighted that they're The reason I started and the reason I still is that it covers all of my So whether or not or enough or not, I'm sure that for vitamins, adaptogens to combat stress, help my digestion. I just feel much better when If you'd like to you can go to and for the month of January, where they'll give you plus a year's supply Vitamin D3 and K2 are metabolic function, but also calcium regulation Again, that's to claim their special offer, of 10 free travel packs, plus In an offline you asked a good been a guest on this chair of neurosurgery, in the top 1% of He's pulling speech who are completely paralyzed et cetera. And you asked him, what contained in medical RICK RUBIN: Today ANDREW HUBERMAN: Today. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. If you went to and you learned what was percentage of that and what percentage is not? And he said, maybe half. ANDREW HUBERMAN: and what is the And he said, incalculable, And I asked him a second came up with the same answer. So that's a good sign. Reliability from experiment Yeah. I think that there is this idea In science, we've observed from chance. We've observed from incredible In both cases, a lot of time in the lab. Like no one walked into the and had a Nobel Prize or fundamental discovery. They were all hanging Just some of them that they didn't expect. Others were drilling RICK RUBIN: And in when the breakthroughs happen-- I'm guessing. I don't know this-- that considering we then this discovery is that came before it. But if everything that then the discoveries are do you know what I'm saying? It's like the context, takes into account that the fits in that context. Maybe that context isn't right. Who knows? We don't know. So I'm saying, we're too close when we think we things, of assumptions that go into it. And that any new built on top of these ANDREW HUBERMAN: I remember-- of course, I listened to Who didn't? I was a child of the 90s, Sabotage was an outgrowth like Spike Jones and And those worlds, the Beastie were really closely Some people know that. Some people don't. And Spike formed the went off and started that more people watch. But let's just use I heard you say once before that like Beastie Boys, like but it was kind of like in New York, punk rock There were a lot When you were working that people might love or you just weren't RICK RUBIN: Weren't Never considered it. There were no-- at when we were making hip hop music was a And no one making thought it would It was not a realistic thought. So we were making it really and that's it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So do the fact that one can create release it quickly. I can put something out onto We could do it in and I will get immediate is external feedback, can iterate on the Do you think that's opportunity for creativity? In other words, if we were to go when the opportunity to create but you really didn't know how quote, unquote, released it. It seems to me there to stay in that is the creativity itself. RICK RUBIN: I don't think It's just more information that it in a useful way. And you can make and people could not like it. And you're like, oh, I'm going to I got to go harder. Like I got to go harder do you know what I'm saying? It's like not to react It can be helpful. It can be helpful when-- there could be different stories Where you're making something, it is. And then other people and they have a different And they like it for than you did or different than the We can't control The only part of it is how we relate to And any external undermines the clarity is probably bad for And again, I'm only saying I try to make things-- all I've ever tried to or something that I felt that I wanted, and So I'll make it, but it wasn't-- it was always in the service I want something like this. No one else is making one. I have to make one. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. It's beautiful, because the is it's almost Like there are other to be and to behave and to But if something it yanks us away from just enough that we You've talked before talk in the book, this And to me, again, I can't help on this. I think of the source as not within the brain, with our bodily signals. Like what feels Or like tasting the two And that it's a playbook vast than the short like this how I'm going to And yet, when I listen I have to assume that it becomes not strategy but strategy implementation. Like there needs going to come in don't know much about music. My musician friends RICK RUBIN: It's not ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. Well put, but the of the melodies, et cetera. So at what point like now's the time narrow focus of effort? Like we've got it. Let's run with this. Because there is a component that involves packaging And is that part less or is it just all part RICK RUBIN: It's all It's nice. There's a good feeling. There's usually a good feeling On the one hand, because up until the time you can keep experimenting If you think, well, maybe then it's not finished. And you keep thinking you can do that forever So getting to the point where is a good feeling, one of the things I talk about is a difficult thing to do, and it's fun to maybe it's To use whatever going to be as motivation you're working on now. Like I'm working on this. I'm spending all of It's really good. I believe it can be better, that I really want to make. And if I keep tinkering I'll never get to So using other to finish something and is a good one. And you said your description of I don't know if I would It's definitely in us too, And it's I think of principle of everything, and How the trees grow, and And anything that we can and every discovery and every new design are all outgrowths of Our part of it is the and maybe where the to allow things to ANDREW HUBERMAN: And because I did indeed misspeak. Because I recall very you described how is constrained by the laws of The imagination And I think I have said the work set it's neither of That ultimately what are imagination and that our brain is The nature in the at least what appears if not infinite options. And I love the example That if we restrict sorts of paints or medium I But in nature, there's of shades and tones RICK RUBIN: And even on and look at the and tried to find a it would never match. There's too much. There are too many within a single color There's too much information. We scratch the surface. We're only scratching ANDREW HUBERMAN: we are able to peer in spatial scales, time scales too, that comes from that that like there were more like where you'd see at very high resolution. There's beauty in a drop of oil. And then you'd see the there's beauty in that And of course, our is mostly through the filter walls, and sometimes outdoors. There's a brilliant and not surprisingly, His name is Richard Axel. He's at Columbia University. He's outrageous personality. Chews Nicorette nonstop. You guys would get along great, but because his is very abstract for he won the Nobel for within how we smell, And he says that everything is an abstraction. Like I could take a and show it to you, and Or let's say for the moment, I Let's just play a game, accused of being an artist. And I do three dots and I say that's you. And you say, well, that doesn't but that's my RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. Well, the brain essentially or something in between that. Because there's no actual It's just a bunch what we call an ensemble, like And we go, Rick, I And so everything and it's only once we start and this is the to remove and add And the best example I can And I only we come because I started off in this will make the except the folks who've and they can swap That if I show you a Rothko, and you may or may not actually It depends on your taste in art. But what Rothko did, even if you don't like Rothkos-- and I happened to-- is that he removed all the And when you do that and so the colors Some people saw that is it orange, or is That was a little bit I doubt-- in fact, I'd be that Rothko knew nothing about perception. But somehow got to if there was no canvas and the paintings and on the appropriate a certain way that tapped And this is where I think art is that, every once in a feels amazing to just like the baggy not just because other But there's something there, And I have to imagine that in and other creative endeavors, have you ever where something showing up in different form? Or there's something like almost does that ever come about? Because in science, as like this is reveals to abstract the world. I hope I made that clear. RICK RUBIN: Not, exactly You talked earlier of oil, the photograph and the photograph-- or we like Hubble telescope in high definition. What we see every day is as but where numb to them, because And if we were to look in a microscope, we would not find So sometimes, it's the from that perspective before And I could imagine, relates to the Rothko idea, from a particular angle and And then walk three and see it from a different It only works-- it only triggers look at it just the right way. There was an experiment heard about the other day, that a painting Where instead of painting-- having a model in the model, that you have And you go into the next You don't have your equipment, for as long as you want. And then you go into where you can't see the model, instead of-- and it changes We're not just We're painting what about what I saw-- what are the data points And when I string those And what do I-- how do I form it to get the experience of the closest of getting of that person in the look like a photograph. It might look more to really see what you see. If we think about the were inspired by African on different levels, they than a photograph would give us. I'm thinking about when the sensation of when something and we all have that when Anyone you know, when there's or if there's a whale, and and there's a whale, that there's a whale. Do you know what I'm saying? These feelings of wonder, depending on where we are. Or a dragonfly or a bird these things happen. And when they happen, confronted with the we change the perspective. Normally, we don't think of in our house, flying do happen. these and they like break when these things happen. It's like, oh, yeah, there are I'm just not paying attention. This guy is coming in to It's like remember me? Here I am. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So I would and what you're describing in a delightful our perceptual RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: like the Rothko I've never thought about it is revealing to us how is actually, first of all, Those colors we think are this gets into the is all about contrast. What something is next to and that's the origin or whatever you call it. I still can't figure out Someone will eventually tell me. In the same way, when you see I think it's revealing those whales are-- There's a whole universe all the time. And I think the misperception-- excuse me, is that we're see the whale. We might be just as getting hit with the we recognize all the it reminds me a little And I've been watching and sometimes, it's the shock. Sometimes, it's the absolute and then other times, and I saw Rogen do comedy in Austin, which he does And it was small club, and during his routine Right? This bit, and everyone We all knew, and then it was exactly where we and it was hilarious. RICK RUBIN: And it felt good. ANDREW HUBERMAN: and I thought in that moment, how did he pull that off? That was masterful, because like you create one story. There's like a scripting out, And then they kind and it's something different. And if you look at the science, imaging of laughter I've looked into, to be to the people in that It's lame, because nature of a surprise. But what he led us to was he's actually going there. Oh, wait, he's and it was this anticipation at the end. And so I'm convinced we're talking about here, that see something, we but that the could be about the other in a subconscious way, like ha. It's almost like laughing that we have. It's almost like laughing at which is what you've said. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. It could be that. It also could be the of when you think it's going and it goes that way. It's like reinforcement of you. It's like, yeah, he's we're saying it together. I'm listening, he's saying it, and that's a good feeling. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I have to I was trying to think about why such powerful emotions in me. And there does seem to about the music we listen From about 14 until to get routed into our Maybe because that is really one of You don't find too many who are wondering RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Occasionally, or pre-teen and You're defining personality. So I always likened it to that. But leaving out the stuff, what do you think that we hear at that time? Are that much more Have we not shut down our Because the songs don't matter, because they're For other people, it will Now, I just really wish the But do you think Because I could see how I could also see of these what I'll and call like a Because if I'm only that a Stiff Little me feel the first time I the feeling is worthwhile. But if I'm looking for that, I'm missing the Beatles. I'm missing Fleetwood Mac, which I'm like, I'm missing all and respect really love. So I've never worried an infinite treasure trove of But I do sometimes my life experience because I'm not allowing range. And you've, obviously, of different genres of music. Punk is one thing. Hip hop is-- Neil Diamond too. Right? Eminem too, Slayer too, right? And in some sense, just think about how much in less so, but even in societally, were asked to one of these groups. I didn't know it was and love punk rock until I heard Tim Armstrong RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: and recently, he told me and I was like, whoa. But I remember when RICK RUBIN: Both the Ramones so we can-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. I got work to do. RICK RUBIN: We'll ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. RICK RUBIN: I have is, the reason it gets a time when we're and the music is part of how we see ourselves. Like the music that we hear that's on the radio or our brother or sister's music. And then when you're start choosing what it's like, now And my parents and my older brothers and but this one is mine. And it always has that this is ours. My that's my thought of ANDREW HUBERMAN: How do you So for instance, if you're going new-- and again, as I hope that they're to whatever it is that they do. Because in the realm of and communication, but there's a contour and a way. Hopefully, this podcast like it does in five years. That's my hope, is it will of the beauty and utility but I hope it doesn't look RICK RUBIN: And I think It's just, the truer it and if you're not in the same way in five years, ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'll be doing here. In therapy, we'll all be RICK RUBIN: Whatever it is. Whatever it is. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. We probably won't but we might be levitating. You never know. I'd like to take a brief InsideTracker. InsideTracker is a that analyzes data to help you better and help you reach I've long been a believer work done, for the simple reason impact your immediate can only be analyzed from The problem with a tests out there, however, back about metabolic and so forth-- what to do with those data. InsideTracker and makes it very easy what sorts of nutritional, supplementation-based you might want to to adjust the numbers of those lipids, and other your immediate and long those numbers into the and indeed optimal for you. If you'd like to try insidetracker.com/huberman of InsideTracker's plans. That's to get 20% off. So how do you-- let's talk a little because I know I'm very I'll spare you the It's very cliche. But you and I are both lovers of as a trivial source, as Right? And there aren't Aside from your it comes to somebody you're and you know you're going to could be your own work. And we'll talk about and its structure I've never encountered a book before, and it's the and yet every single page, starred. And like, as you notice, it's already and only Do you have a the functions of the day and and what's going on in order I'm going to think of it inside of you. Right? Almost like tuning a radio, it comes in. Like the beginning of like Right? He love the radio. Joe loved the radio, right? [IMITATING STATIC] and and there it is. How do you clear the static? What are some of the that you think might be more of where somebody in Africa RICK RUBIN: I would say, when I whatever it is, I for that period of Whether it be 20 be five hours, focus, and no outside And when I leave that not to think about it, I don't bring any I don't leave the studio and spend time listening or looking for ideas. I stay as far away from engaging in it, as possible. And in the best of situations, engage myself in in between. So instead of working on and then leaving I'm hoping to engage or B, C, and D before going back to be the next day, let's say. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So this and series of that I'm not going to describe, it for themselves, about disengaging One question I had as and as you're saying this disengaged, do you believe that through? RICK RUBIN: I believe so. I believe so, and to stew over a problem is not I think to hold the and when I say a problem, there's usually there's a question mark, at I'm always anxious when because I have no idea I never know. I never-- I may have, in some if nothing works, but I really I prefer not to have that. I prefer to go in maybe to be able to show up, if nothing works, maybe we But that would only It wouldn't be for But there's always a sense whatever's going to happen is Something either interesting and then we're going to And until something I have a lot of anxiety, even It has come every time, but because I also feel like there that I'm going to and I know that's not happening. That's not how it works. I show up ready for open to whatever we have to And once we find the we have a-- and that thread It could lead us in a But something about having looking at a blank page. We're looking at, OK, we have a map. But it's a map that we don't and it's just the beginning. It's just like, you are here. If you have a map, and even if you can't knowing where we are feels OK. And once we get-- usually in the first day, first But up until then, it's really and then I can't remember So that was the beginning of But do you remember I don't remember. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Well, we were talking and is your And then we're talking So like what is your process And you're revealing that now. I think of anxiety as readiness. I think about the characteristic it tends to be a bit of the visual field into But that's appropriate, want to shed what's And then even when people like not feeling anxiety was designed to mobilize Rarely do I talk about the but one of the things that-- frankly, I didn't discover but but is brilliant. Graduate student Lindsey was that we can often in very high states of toward a goal. And we always think of moving thing, these heroes, Rosa Parks Like I'm not getting I'm not leaving the-- giving up my seat on I bet you they were but it was in the forward tilt. And so I think anxiety when we are forcing So it's a activating brings up a word in my notebook as an from within the book that you which is-- and here I'm going to But I mean it as be stated, that I feel like We can do things from We can do things We can do things from I like to think that joy and delight and love of energy. But a lot of the music that I was because of thread into it or the sadness. RICK RUBIN: If you think of it's a relationship of love. You didn't listen to ANDREW HUBERMAN: No. RICK RUBIN: You listened ANDREW HUBERMAN: And because it matched RICK RUBIN: It was true to who ANDREW HUBERMAN: I know there's a wonderful but it's collaboration, with the universe, But in terms of the, especially done and do, when it comes I do wonder-- and here I'm not looking I've never been I love stories, but I'm But once you see that and you're going Or you grab on to it, now you have a and an orientation I often wonder, scientists People think but they're actually Because they're limited rule set of That's how you get degrees is by understanding and playing by those rules. RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: People You get your Richard very playful in how but they are systematic. He's known for Right? When I think of creative I think of a bit Or you watch the documentary and you're like, wow, How-- because so many of musical artists seem to have some or their lives aren't always And science too, are substance abuse issues How-- since you don't they need to play the How do you work with but are getting Right? And do you think that that a lot of do you think that an essential piece of that you can't disentangle it? RICK RUBIN: Yeah. I don't think it's an essential artists, that's how they do it. I would say, I rarely get to For whatever reason, they and most of them, like are much more serious doing than what it looks like There's much more much more focus on craft than would necessarily be on stage. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm a fan and boxing, the sports now that UFC is so popular. And track and field is-- it's a little bit When you go, the are there because We'll talk about professional wrestling. But Floyd Mayweather a colorful character records in boxing of all time. And a few years back, I got and what one sees is They literally call team, and the all the outrageous stuff. But I know someone who was in a sparring partner for they have very closed door But the lore is because nowadays, it's with a minute in But now, neuroscientists and it turns out a were occurring when it For whatever reason, really seemed to There are other things too. If the dad is we have someone else knows more about this than me. RICK RUBIN: That's fascinating. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. The kid not wanting to correlated with death. I'll get some of this wrong, But in any case, this guy said that he would of sparring, bringing in fresh That he would run three or despite all the That his training was to the point where he chew up, and destroy And yet the perception that we So it sounds very similar. Like what we see is often that people are RICK RUBIN: Yeah, and from a psychological if you knew you were fighting seriously, that would and that would not if the person was actually outworking you. Do you know what I'm saying? Like from a psychological that makes sense to me. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So what is that I'm imagining have to ends of the continuum. One that is about fairly narrow strategy implementation, craft, and then the It's very nebulous. Right? And there's this from a colleague of mine, when I when my lab was there, There's this phenomenon that because then it sounds But the correct and pareidolia is our tendency like a cloud or that it looks like something RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: RICK RUBIN: Yep. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And the extent to which the brain on things, and we need this. Right? Because I see you walk I recognize you. In fact, we have a brain face gyrus, that it literally And you could be or I could just see your There's a phenomenon where people can see faces. They can describe but they don't know, JFK or Madonna or Lex Fridman. RICK RUBIN: It's quite the list. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Quite the Run for office, Lex. Just kidding. It's hard enough to get you to So we have these filters, and and we're deciding RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And into your process a little you approach a project-- so everyone meets each Here are the engineers. We're going to sit down. Everyone knows what work with professionals. And you start going, are you or in the implementation? Like where are you And forgive me if I'm like into your process in a way that But I trust you been and there's no threat of that. RICK RUBIN: I'm in the cloud, aware of what could go wrong on like if something I might look over and make ANDREW HUBERMAN: So that's a but then you get back. RICK RUBIN: Maybe. Maybe. If I feel like-- if I was in the moment, And if something good it would trigger Like uh-oh, I hope this is-- I hope we're really doing if we could ever do this again. That would be a thought of-- when the first time come into the picture would be Let's not lose it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And when never been in a studio Do you say, hey, guys, More of that. Or do you wait, you Because obviously you don't RICK RUBIN: We'd never once it's happening. Yeah. Once something's happening, ANDREW HUBERMAN: And do you like the team of know when &quot;It,&quot; quote, RICK RUBIN: If everyone's When everyone's it's usually pretty obvious. Sometimes, the thread different than expected, would pick up on it. And that might be might be particular based on Or someone involvement might I think that was That can happen. You said several like you said enough for there ANDREW HUBERMAN: Sorry. Especially with you. I don't get to see you nearly and so when I do, a little bit of a RICK RUBIN: I wrote down So you talked about, I walk you recognize me, but it's a shorthand. We go through our lives with everything we see, and the you know me, the shorthand It checks out. If it's something we we're not familiar we experience something Something happens, and Something out of the The first thing is this Then, what we do is, again, I don't know if it's without thinking, we create a happened, a hypothetical that happened happened. And oh, maybe he's running and he's chasing his dog. Maybe that's why he's running. And as soon as we have that we relax, because now it's and this is weird. But it's a guy running, oh, he's And now, we register that without even knowing we were And then later in the yeah, did you see that guy It's like, yeah, he I saw that. And you won't even hypothetical story that was the allowed you to continue walking. Do you know what I'm saying? That's our whole lives. Our whole lives are making up a story may have happened, that's what we're doing. And then living the rest of that we made up really ANDREW HUBERMAN: I We confabulate from There's this in people who have So there's the sad there's the everyday who knows-- sad or So for instance, if somebody or someone has they'll find themselves in what are you doing here? And they'll say, oh, I was but they're walking away would make sense. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: People who-- alcoholics who drink called Korsakoff syndrome, area gets messed up. And you'll ask them what are you doing here? And they will come up sometimes interesting have no bearing on reality. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You ask RICK RUBIN: But do they believe? They believe that's ANDREW HUBERMAN: With actually relates to a understood controversy You can, especially you can pull memories from them This has been demonstrated So courtrooms know to about this whole notion RICK RUBIN: That's good to know. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, of the law, as you can imagine. Because we tend to for understandable reasons. But in terms of two people have very of the same experiences, been shown over and over again. That you can do well It's pretty interesting. So again, because filtering and I think it was said we are the He probably-- RICK RUBIN: Wow. I was going to say we're but that's great. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. We are story-- I would say that had to pick up a brain function, The mantis shrimp sees 67 that we see. So they have access to things RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: as I releasing, albums of the but who knows. Maybe down there they are. I did see something, by the way and I don't know if it's-- look, even if it's If you take a device the electrical signals and you just translate that to two or three the music that comes out of of beautiful. And when I saw that, the you know when we we think it's so beautiful. Like what if they're just the whole time? Right? Maybe they're in there when he invites all his Who knows? Maybe it's a about their childhood traumas. I don't know. RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But we decide, RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: We decide RICK RUBIN: And it's and we're right, that But it doesn't mean we ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's right. Yeah. So we have these filters, We only can see and hear, and then the brain likes We tend to like to match messed up must be homeless. I've had a couple where I saw what I thought inside a building at an It turned out, it was the in the field. That's always cool. Yes, that happened at Berkeley. Then, the other thing that we so we said perception, symbol our memories are based on already deficient representation. RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And so I that we don't know I think we do know but that it works through RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So knowing and it seems to me that this looking outside And in fact, I hope you but a few years back, I had And I was kind of in I had seen in the media. I was like, they And I knew the person a good situation for them. And I was like, they got it You said, it's all lies. Back to nature, the only truth. RICK RUBIN: Wow. That's wild. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I put it over my desk. RICK RUBIN: Wow. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I still-- I'd tattoo it on my forehead, it well-committed to memory. But I know that's true. Right? Nature we can look at and it's-- RICK RUBIN: When I you just talked to how limited our facility to Yes? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yes. RICK RUBIN: So based on can't know much. Do you know what I'm saying? Our resolution is that we're really just like We have no idea. We have no idea, and there's Because if you think you know you're being deceived. Not because somebody but because they're they see, and they don't know. It's all-- do you It's all made up. Everything we know is made up. Maybe, maybe it's true. This brings us to pro wrestling. It's the reason is closer to reality than or any other content. It's we know it's made up. We know that it's a performance. It's storytelling, and is, except we think wrestling Wrestling's real, ANDREW HUBERMAN: You we're definitely going In the book, you talk about the idea of the And there are not only of psychology that are into the human psyche, Byron Where you take a playing with that statement. You poke at its authenticity. And when I first heard that, Right? It's just words. And then I realized was being, because she's And there are others too, that's exactly what you do. You don't really ask You are forced to raise and say true or false. Now, there are limitations Pure observational incredible in terms of to us, especially in medicine. A patient that has a bullet of the brain, you don't hypothesize that person will No. The person wandered into this person sees faces but And then you reverse-- you forensically arrive So but in general, we go and considering that the that's a little bit, I suppose, at the surface of the water. It's like, well, the which is all above is maybe not the complete You start seeing the So I want to-- RICK RUBIN: Consider the and it really relates to the way colors is based on contrast. So maybe blue is only blue So if blue is our choice, if blue doesn't exist. Do you know what I'm saying? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Absolutely. RICK RUBIN: It's like, It's only night, If there was no day, In all of our cases, There's the light and There's always another and we focus on one aspect. But if we look at the we'll learn something too. ANDREW HUBERMAN: is not just able to do this. It's the way it does everything. Two experiments I'll My scientific David Hubel, Torsten that, if you force a for a long period of time there's a way that you can do Because normally, your eyes and you're comparing to what's right next to it. Pixel by pixel, pixel by RICK RUBIN: Wow. ANDREW HUBERMAN: to use the example of We're sitting in and until I said you at the level of sensation you were unaware of it. Because if you experience a you ever walk in the smell pretty soon, the The neurons are still firing but we become blind Because the nervous the value of that signal and it's only the stuff signal the noise into attention and awareness. And I want to return to prominent themes in the book. And I think, in an oh, attention but you also give insight into how to pay awareness that people are going to but I do want to ask Because when I was growing up, and there was some I think back then it was WWF. There was a short where I paid attention was it Koko B. Ware, the I was obsessed with tropical and he put his tropical And then George the guy that would eat the ring. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. So and-- RICK RUBIN: I believe Seriously. Seriously. Seriously. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Was he really? RICK RUBIN: In real life. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Amazing. RICK RUBIN: He was a professor, &quot;The Animal&quot; Steele ANDREW HUBERMAN: And The Wrestler, The Wrestler. RICK RUBIN: Darren ANDREW HUBERMAN: It RICK RUBIN: With Mickey Rourke. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. One of the reasons I liked it Isn't that where There's a vacant-- he goes There's a vacant amusement park scene there that still kind of haunts There's something about All the places that go just for the summer, in the West coast, are just tougher than we are. It still haunts me. Great movie. But I remember and it was at that age, I think maybe 11, 12, 13, where and puberty is a fundamental It's the most rapid It's also when we start Like certain people and take on profoundly Right? It's not just a reproductive their bodies change. The rulebook changes RICK RUBIN: Our understanding in that moment. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. The moment that a child and how they got there and see in the world is kind of being sent through that filter, It changes the rule I view this age, at least for me was a Where the gap between what and fiction was blurry. This is captured pretty well where they're hanging around And the kid says, would win in a fight between And the other kid Mighty Mouse is a cartoon. Of course Superman would win. And like to me, that's being Where your understanding it is changing, but crystallized into an RICK RUBIN: That sounds to be, to me, like that. Not letting it crystallize, where the downfall happens. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So I have about wrestling, but it's RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I want you watch wrestling because it state in your body and mind and reality, as one conceives Or is it for a number of Is that the energy you're to the creative process Is it that anything is dealing with archetypes? Because it doesn't matter if &quot;Macho Man&quot; Savage, or and the lovely Elizabeth. I guess I did watch a They are archetypes, or the Bible or-- no disrespect to the Bible or for that matter. Archetypes are a powerful but we know that they're because people aren't built We have curves and So what is the deal with your RICK RUBIN: I think it Anything is possible. We expect the unexpected And it's a way to have of a sport with no competition. Everyone is working together to So it's more like a ballet than and there's great It's one of the few things feel relaxed. It relaxes me. I don't feel like I I can just relax and enjoy it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: This that is very near and is this notion of I never want to reduce but dopamine is the universal motivation seeking. There are other but there's a beautiful of examples that I'll to more questions and why it's powerful. And why other people may or some other endeavor as a and source. Earlier, we talked about to press a lever three and it will learn three is and then it can switch. It takes a little and then they can switch. But they can't do prime numbers. They can't do high Humans either. We're not very good at for optimal foraging. We do it well enough to persist but it's very likely that we as well as we could, know, if we don't know? It's one of those you who don't There's a beautiful explored when in the context of watching believe it or not. And with the comedy there was a of that jarring like people's dopamine output. They were also brain imaging. In a game of basketball, experimentally. Because every time or is shooting free they're going down going to end up in the Might end up on the free throw So what they found is that was every time there was a So you're waiting, You're waiting, waiting. Yes. Waiting, waiting, three-pointer. Ah, awesome, and if where it looked to make the three-pointer, but the ball away, and then like you don't expect that very So that's kind of how When you describe because you don't it's not one team gets it, You don't know Anything could happen RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: of that dopamine surge or drip, is completely-- it's completely out of your You don't know when but it must arrive often 11 hours a week of watching. In many ways, the to conceptualize the creative the same. You don't know where and those loose threads are, and in this case, I am to know that they are in there. The people walking in this of ability and talent to create as we are going And those nuggets of-- here I'm calling them are out there, is enough to get you and again to trust the process. So I actually think the way the energy of the sport. It's not whether or not or who wins or who loses. It's the energy, it's the energy that it RICK RUBIN: Yes. It's the energy creates that it's honest in where seemingly nothing And again, not because people We have little data, we make and then we say And we have trusted sources described and who pass this And maybe it's true, With wrestling, we know, maybe We lean towards but what's really and maybe one of the is that, sometimes, real life Like two wrestlers get married. Now-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: In real life. RICK RUBIN: Well, we don't know. It's like you never know. It's like in the getting married or or best friends And it could be and it could really be Right? Someone gets someone So they're out, because Did they break their leg? We don't know. They're out. Do you know what I'm saying? We're told they broke their leg. So there's always this I wonder where the line is. We know that it's scripted That's how they say, But we don't know where reality that's our real is this we don't really know We have an idea, maybe. I think in some more honest or legitimate, that it's fixed. When we go to a boxing match, thinking it's fixed. Yet, it might be, and Or there was just something was it baseball? ANDREW HUBERMAN: I I should know. RICK RUBIN: It was ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh. RICK RUBIN: One of ANDREW HUBERMAN: The RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Was it RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Of the catcher? RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. You're not supposed or deconstruct the call and I guess maybe a team RICK RUBIN: Yes, and whatever the World Series was. So it's like, with wrestling, Do you know what I'm saying? ANDREW HUBERMAN: RICK RUBIN: Anything what the world is really like. So in some ways, and there's still this wonder if that's true or not, If someone gets hurt, did or are they just We don't know. We'll never know. It's fascinating. ANDREW HUBERMAN: and I feel like there are in a way that is surprising but in all directions. Like it's one thing to come out and That can be interesting depending on the celebrity and And I'm probably going because I'm terrible at pop anyway. But as I recall, to some event wearing and I can't tell you whether or not that against meat or for meat. Maybe, it was a statement Maybe, it was a I don't know. RICK RUBIN: Or maybe neither. ANDREW HUBERMAN: but it was definitely in that it broke with the norm. And it said to me, OK, she for herself or breaks boundaries I never heard of anyone It doesn't mean they hadn't, doing it before. But we do tend to associate with, quote, unless it crosses a becomes something else. It becomes almost theater But what you're telling me of wrestling, theater is and everybody knows it who watches it. RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Everybody. RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: to kind of suspend and say this is reality. RICK RUBIN: Yes, and they boo for the good guys, they're probably friends. ANDREW HUBERMAN: that are 11, who think RICK RUBIN: I don't know. I don't even know if they know. I'm not sure. ANDREW HUBERMAN: The I know who has vocalized their to the extent that you have is guitar player for Rancid But his statement-- if I'm getting this wrong-- is that, because he grew up where there were no teams. Like now, there's the but there was no football He's from Campbell. But there were no like good but they had wrestling, On the television set. And so if you I didn't grow up with any The 49ers were up the road, but and I love it for You actually never really There is no rulebook. The rulebook is made it's a unique sport, in that-- surfing's a bit like this too-- in that, they are absolutely things look a certain way. It's not about just doing it. It's about doing it and RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: with the front foot, RICK RUBIN: Styles. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Style. RICK RUBIN: It's a style. ANDREW HUBERMAN: is this like nebulous thing of Right. Whereas with a football, There's even like the catch, is a 49er-- the catch But in general, it's like the win the game. And I'm sure like cringing as doesn't matter if you run In skateboarding, In fact, you'd basically be In wrestling, is it the same? Are there style to wrestling? RICK RUBIN: It's It's all the charisma There's the physical to talk and tell a story, the performers are. Whether you want to watch them, win, whether you want and whether you're interested ANDREW HUBERMAN: I was going but operas get released You know the story when you walk in, if you've So wrestling does seem It's real time from the perspective of the-- RICK RUBIN: And it's based on because people They're doing really So if someone gets hurt, Because in real life, they and do what was So it's very alive, something interesting and ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I'll share with you like your perspective on it. For years, I used a tool in since I was a because I have a a little bit of a Tourette's. When I get tired, I'll do that. I'm very strategy I had that when I I needed all my stuffed animals LEGOs had to be-- a little neurotic or a lot. And then science is very much with a lot of precision. And I discovered that when I was in graduate if I couldn't make it to a show, or like chaos. The chaos of a punk rock It was to release And I got energy from it. First time I saw whoa, because you don't And it was scary. And I loved it. The other thing that to reset this ability to without it feeling like maybe even access the that you're accessing was I like to stare at aquaria. I like to go to aquariums And I would just sit know which way the You think it's going that they'll turn and It's completely unpredictable. And I love aquaria and had them in my I just adore aquariums because It's not A, B, C. And I think this is what through psychedelics, but that good way to do it whereas with aquaria, So in your book, you that I also share is how the ocean and aspects of they have a We know where they are Fortunately, the sun rises for now. And we can count on them And yet, they are of what physicists would You can't look at a wave the foam is going to roll out. You know it's going to We have the tides, but when I think about my And I think about my love of or I think about the ocean. I think in that way that we from things that have both and no structure. RICK RUBIN: I think that there are some and some places And I can remember I was walking-- there's in Hawaii, that I walk on And if you walk on the you get a sense And I remember I was in Hawaii. I walked on the beach or however long it was. And then I left for six And the next time I it was an entirely different And I remember like this is an unusual the house that I the house I lived in years of my life. And I think about what And I think about a particular And I don't know this is, if I were to go and go to that place, it would probably Yet, here was this walking on in Hawaii that completely changed its face. And just how interesting And that depending we're working on, to be that we know has the and what that would do to when we're experiencing that has very little change. And you can count on it being That both of those to be able to draw we want to open in our psyche. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I have an with New York in the RICK RUBIN: You didn't ANDREW HUBERMAN: No, I went there when And I was fascinated by it. There's also a very of East Coast to including yourself, that played just seeing things that were meaningful to me. But I, for instance, I haven't seen the documentary Basquiat, because of the and the huge number of people in Hopper, and Christopher Those images of New York at and what was happening. I wish I could transplant If I had a time machine, I hear a lot of people say, New San Francisco isn't what LA isn't what-- there that feels a little bit about cities changing. But the idea that natural we even accept like, hey, And assuming they weren't we accept that. That change and the is normal and healthy. And I always tell the kids growing up in New York, now. They only know it that way. So to them, it's as as it's ever going to be. They either want to loving every piece of it. And this happened for all the So my question is Do you miss the New York Are you somebody who is RICK RUBIN: I'm not I'm not attached to I don't look back at all. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You don't at NYU, Beastie Boys, this. I miss-- no. Your optics are forward, RICK RUBIN: Only ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is or it just happens to RICK RUBIN: I don't know. I'm not sure, but ANDREW HUBERMAN: Nostalgia RICK RUBIN: No. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Lucky you, man. RICK RUBIN: No. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I say that So you can hear a had a role in producing or And you're accessing but you're not pining RICK RUBIN: Never. ANDREW HUBERMAN: but I'm going to venture that's a very unique quality. I think a lot of people wish happen the way they a lot of living in the past. There's a lot of this notion I don't actually think that's I think a lot of people live in good and bad. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. I have none. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And is one way that you RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: When you they pass around this or that-- I don't know if they do around a little bit of It turns out there's a There's a kind of receptors between savory, So wrestling is your RICK RUBIN: I know wrestling before I going to be a good ANDREW HUBERMAN: Do you RICK RUBIN: No, never. But it's just relaxing. It's just relaxing. ANDREW HUBERMAN: when you watch it, like RICK RUBIN: Sometimes, sometimes ANDREW HUBERMAN: He's going RICK RUBIN: Yeah, ANDREW HUBERMAN: RICK RUBIN: But even then, It's like I don't really care I'm just being entertained. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Do they You said they do. RICK RUBIN: A lot, often. They do. I mean, they're So imagine stuntmen getting It happens all the time. ANDREW HUBERMAN: When I remember he got And I thought that's I once went and saw-- I guess they called I don't know if they where the guys dip their hands-- RICK RUBIN: Lucha libre. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, they This was in Sacramento. And I once saw it. I honestly didn't I really didn't. I couldn't believe it was legal. It might not have been legal. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But I thought-- RICK RUBIN: There's crazy ANDREW HUBERMAN: Wow. So before sleep, when you watch wrestling? RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Do you to have some activity that and create peace before RICK RUBIN: I think so. And I think yoga It's like yoga any of those type things. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, not I won't watch that. RICK RUBIN: I don't watch or I don't like violent things. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, I know horrible things but I certainly don't want I think these liminal states are very powerful. When you wake up in the immediately structured the clearing of the clouds? RICK RUBIN: It's a slow And I like that. I like not engaging I usually fall asleep listening speaking because get caught in my own thoughts. And listening to something that it stops me from ANDREW HUBERMAN: I do the same. My grandfather listened to the And he would fall asleep. Oftentimes, he was a smoker His wife's responsibility up later than he did to make down. And then when you wake up, Is it an hour or two before RICK RUBIN: I would I usually wake up and as soon as I possibly hope to spend about an hour. And then I'll on the beach for another hour ANDREW HUBERMAN: Are and other people at that time? RICK RUBIN: No, I'm ANDREW HUBERMAN: Phone? RICK RUBIN: I'll be I don't look at the phone, but or podcast, or audiobook. I like audiobooks a lot. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, I do too. If an idea comes to mind RICK RUBIN: I may, it depends. I like to. I usually have-- would I don't usually carry pen and ANDREW HUBERMAN: I do a long Sunday hike or jog. And I will audio People sometimes because I'm talking to myself. RICK RUBIN: That's a nice I'd like to learn more of instead of the typing methods. Right now I type and I don't ANDREW HUBERMAN: The voice and other phones is really good. And there are now that will turn those that are fairly well No, they're not a I just happen to use it. It's great. I actually learned that the Nicorette chewing, wild He writes manuscripts by walking and talking into his phone. RICK RUBIN: I always think where the Alan Alda character he's speaking comedy It's really pretentious. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, about Harvey Milk, that Sean because that all took mostly, in the Bay Area. But there's these as I recall, sitting there into a tape recorder about how he predicted that he et cetera. And this goes back about writing things down. I think that a lot of feel a little bit of who am I to think be worthwhile or something? But I think over time, that the ideas about I have about health, but oftentimes can lead to real RICK RUBIN: But it's something it doesn't matter what Most of my notes are for anyone else's used. Like I hear about something and I think about, OK, about this, whatever it is. And then, sometimes those into things I'm doing to work in that way, but I with the idea of using it. I learn things with the idea This is what's And then often those things can find their way into other ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, that's but the moment that you it sounds so extractive. So you take this walk the occasional idea, perhaps. And then what is the next-- the way that-- do this, then this, then that. I'm interested in, where Does it become more Does your thinking around projects and plans? RICK RUBIN: I try that need dealing and in preparation And then when I go to this free thing where I'm, comes, welcoming something good, trying to will it to don't have the ability I can just be present for it ANDREW HUBERMAN: Some of the really interesting and were about dancing of structure. So when I think of structure, So when you are in the obviously, deadlines are There's only so many where one can stay in the groove Have you ever found where you're grinding OK, I'm not coming It's the next-- we're going kind of thing. RICK RUBIN: A lot. A lot. Over the course of my life, And one of the things through working on the book we're not required to treat in the same way, Before, everything was Everything had a wide It happens when it happens. And if it takes two years or It's not about that. It's only about this And what I came to realize is that there are And the first phase is which is an ongoing I do that. I do that always whether I'm I'm always in the And there's no deadline or me that I think I want or has potential to be I hear something, like to read more if there's a movie about that. Is there a movie about that? If not, maybe there's Again, I want-- this is Let's see if it exists. If it doesn't exist, something interesting to pursue. But I know that the desire So in the seed phase, It's just a wide open part. And then the next phase is phase, where we start what the seeds want to do. You're involved but you're not really You're setting the stage but it's not about you yet. So it'd be like the equivalent You'd would water it. You'd make sure And you'd wait. So you're involved, but And then when it or if it turns into a plant, like, OK, how does this plant-- what's the potential And then that the third phase it's like, OK, I maybe I'm going to going to combine it to make something else with it. Now, it's like And then finally is the which is the final edit, the version of it can share with the something you're going to do. And I've come to you're going into the completion And it won't hurt the project. In fact, it might And I didn't know that before. So I've worked on projects necessarily needed in the best interests because I didn't know that. I didn't understand because I am so aware in the experimental phase to not that held through And they're not-- it's not and then you start phase two. Phase two finishes and You move back and I'm collecting I'm always in phase one. And then, probably there's always some version of not now, but if something's I want to look at, hopefully, and give them some and see what they can turn into. And then if they do then they get to the crafting now I have this thing. What do I know about this thing? What can I match this with? What can I use this for? How can I be involved And by the end of or deep into the crafting phase, You can start seeing an end. And then you can But I recommend, if for you not for anyone else where you learn-- if you set and then a new discovery And you realize, oh, be much better than I it's harder to do that So I would say, have an internal That said, if an unusual and it's better for everything it's one of those rules that-- you set the rule what's best for the project. But that was a new thing for me. And it helped me a lot. ANDREW HUBERMAN: When RICK RUBIN: In collecting and thinking about it. When I realized I didn't know any of this. When I started didn't know hardly any of Most of it would be reverse that I had experienced, using these methods without following my instincts And then I would look back And is there a principle be of use outside of this case? And how do I explain that? And that's what reverse engineered have led to a good decision ANDREW HUBERMAN: The was really interesting to me. RICK RUBIN: Tell me what it ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I'll which is that self-doubt And while we may wish it was And it goes on to describe in not so many words. I think there's a from the landscape of discussed in a pathological matters, anything goes. This is usually the phrase who feel as if there's so just go crazy, But there's a light where in some sense the to have something to do with-- if you're not paying outcomes are like who likes and you're just doing it for I want to delight myself. Well then, anything an infinite rule set at least initially. So as one gets better you can imagine I think that's the perception You get better at You can land free throws You can hit more home You can produce more Self confidence goes up. Self-doubt goes down. But I think you and of people who are to know that oftentimes there's people feel pressure they got to do it again. RICK RUBIN: Yes or that you that it comes easily and you ANDREW HUBERMAN: Arrogance. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. So self-doubt it's like a-- it's a check on yourself. It can either be really helpful So it's something we all have. And if we let it undermine us, and that's not good. But when used as a it serves a great function it's OK to have in the world and is this the best it can be? You can doubt-- I think the phrase You can doubt your way to a Sometimes that you to push further I made it so it's good. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, I've seem to be driven by to constantly perform then I have real arrogance. Just hasn't been my I've met some arrogant And of course, we never-- as a psychiatrist who I admire was a guest on this we never really know I mean, most of the time, we Again, language is a for explaining feelings. So we think somebody feels and it could be another, but So in the sense of just always it sounds like your routine is But the things that in touch with-- wrestling, there's a predictability of in a predictable to have a lot of The ocean is completely RICK RUBIN: I also listen to a So I listen to a lot of but some jazz, and that I never heard before. And I like being And sometimes it really I shazam a lot when I ANDREW HUBERMAN: Have music that really but just does not Or that it's much better sort of, meh. You don't have to name names. RICK RUBIN: I don't think so. I feel like maybe there are great live who've never Example would probably is a good example I feel like their albums But if you hear live really interesting and really And that's part of what makes is their unpredictability. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I confess. I had a sister who listened And I got taken to a few And they would do that-- It was these drum for hours and hours. This is like the antithesis where songs are like And I remember What is this? But people I know, who love that uncertainty about I think they do call it space. Forgive me deadheads. I'm not enough of RICK RUBIN: But they're And sometimes they find it. And if you're there it feels exciting it's not just It's like something It's a real moment. Something that I aim is to create real moments they don't necessarily They sound like something And in that moment, And it's a special moment. And you can feel that if it wouldn't be like that. There's something really It's really what-- it's And I think some of-- bringing into other types of music makes for compelling things, there's a certain amount of-- you really have to pay When you're doing it, you're It's like, I don't really know. There's no music. There's no map to follow. And now we're working Do I play or not play? When do I play? And you're really And can I add or you go And someone else It's like, oh, I can't do that. And it's like everyone's in this moment experiencing can feel as a listener. And we get to hear their And it's thrilling So I like that experience. I feel that's what They'll play songs And again, I don't know It's newer for me to Growing up, I never but probably because I and thought, this doesn't But I think that the what's special about them. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think were recorded or videotaped-- RICK RUBIN: By fans They supported that everybody everybody trade tapes. It made sense for ANDREW HUBERMAN: They excuse me, the I mean, people literally or spent much of their lives to city to follow them. RICK RUBIN: Because it's not to watch a movie over and It's different every night. It's changing. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's pretty I don't know of anything else And those often don't end well. I think a guy that mixed Massacre went to my high school. RICK RUBIN: Is that true? ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think so. RICK RUBIN: That's amazing. ANDREW HUBERMAN: good at all this '70s, '80s She's a very light person. RICK RUBIN: Did you read ANDREW HUBERMAN: No. RICK RUBIN: It's about It's great. You'll love it. Great book. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I The way you describe or things emerging in time, a way of capturing those maybe watering, et was beautifully captured gave about a conveyor We think of the creative process or we're going to going to sit there in a There's some Hemingway sit there and stare at the form on your forehead or maybe it was-- I don't know. It sounds like Anyway, I'm going People tell me in the comments. Maybe no one said it. It was a dream. But I love this That reminds me of doing experiments thinking I and then seeing having to make the decision, to drop everything and go that or a week, or a I mean, these are that at least as far going to live 100 years or less. But this idea that we have in our past. And we can draw on, good decisions-- do we grab or not? I'm hearing you. And I'm starting to realize might be the worst do in terms of good decisions in this have a playbook of what's But you actually there's a passage I'll just read it. To be aware of the assumption is the best way simply you've done it before. I sat with this page for almost something I do very often. Maybe you could elaborate I mean, we want to have can trust, but this is, I RICK RUBIN: Yeah it's easy to be that's the way to do it It's just a way. And it's just a way that And this plays into from people who have You explain your situation. They tell you their advice. The advice that is not based on your It's based on their life And the stories are based on that have very different So maybe they're but maybe they're giving and not giving you And it's easy when we a result, a positive everybody can do this. The way I was vegan for And then I started eating-- I started eating animal changed my diet a few where I lost a lot of weight. The way that I did Right before that happened, I that everyone else who did what for whatever reason, I didn't. So the idea that we know I think, it's hard what's right for ourselves. And if we do somehow crack the be happy we have it, I wonder if that's the only way. Maybe there's an even better Not to get comfortable we know how it works get the outcome we want. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I was raised It was literally dictated almost like a rule was that the brain is plastic. It can change and learn And then the critical And this was a rule. Essentially, it was which was very deserved, grandparents. They deserve it. But I was told there was no function in any meaningful It turns out that's Sorry David and Torsten, RICK RUBIN: Wow, ANDREW HUBERMAN: suppressed because of the and discoveries at that time. And a guy named Mike Gregg Recanzone were showing and only now is this really just crazy. There were so many reasons We were all told it. And it changed our behavior. Now we know this to There's plasticity There's limits to but it's just far and RICK RUBIN: So why would ever happened? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Exactly. But the field was run of people at that time. RICK RUBIN: All fields are run who have an investment in things because they're in charge. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And about getting older is that-- well, fortunately, And I hope that-- David unfortunately passed away. He was lovely. Torsten is lovely. He's still alive. And they would say-- I think Torsten should have been a in allowing these other ideas. But I think that-- RICK RUBIN: But just that were wasted with ANDREW HUBERMAN: And it went beyond that. And there were BBC specials And one of the has been to try and shed, that at first seem crazy. I know you and I are both benefits of light. And you hear about this stuff It sounds crazy, right? Sounds like something at Esalen or in Big Sur. Turns out negative ionization is based on really amazing work Michael Terman. The Nobel Prize, I was given for phototherapy This idea that certain can help treat medical But somehow, we see a red light. We're not used to seeing and on stoplights. And somehow, it bothers people RICK RUBIN: It undermines that doesn't take red ANDREW HUBERMAN: it was-- and then And the place what I For a lot of years, people is like no mechanism, no There's a lab at Harvard, who I reasonably is dedicated to trying to figure of acupuncture. And they are discovering is known for thousands is that incredible effects microbiome. RICK RUBIN: I have having a terrible back problem. And I suggested that he And he went to the And his back problem completely And I asked him, have because he had another flare up. He's like, no. I can't go back there because I said, well, you He's like, yeah, but ANDREW HUBERMAN: now there's good science and What's interesting is there's editorial, but since we like health and things of that of a journal dictates what gets And the premier journals on what the media covers. And so the beautiful thing is of the age that they grew hypnosis has a powerful if it's done right, yoga And so the tides are like to take a step back and with now that seems crazy that will be the-- because will be journal editors. I'm like, oh yeah, absolutely. I'm making this up but against your head or like sound wave therapy. I think when one we have to filter everything of our biology, but also the way culture goes, it How do you deal with that, but in terms of It sounds like you don't spend about what people are going RICK RUBIN: No, I can't. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You're RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You still RICK RUBIN: I can't. I just know what I I know what works for I try things. And I'm constantly looking to anything. And wherever they come It could come from-- it could come from could come from the guy talking If it works, I'm good. It doesn't really I don't hold any of it tightly. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, now a division of the of Health called complementary And it's amazing. NCCIH is run by a woman this is interesting, some of things like acupuncture, can cure all cancers, but for a lot of people, certainly they just are not interested. It sheds new light on the Andrew the wild ones. RICK RUBIN: Ozone therapy, There's so many we can look at. I mean for a long was just thought of doesn't matter what you eat. It's what medicine the food is everything. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Food In the landscape of it's one of the third rails who's out there on social media. You do a very good posts on Twitter and Instagram, you put up a new one. RICK RUBIN: And I I only talk about-- I talk about creative ideas. I don't talk about related to anything other don't believe what you hear. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, in the landscape I now place it of professional wrestling. You've got your vegans, and your carnivore MD. And you've got liver king. And you've got So you could translate that to Fashion probably has its people. I'm just not aware Music has theirs. And sports has theirs. And science has So are we all just in these different taking ourselves and each RICK RUBIN: Yeah, it's all-- If someone has an idea do you try it. And if it doesn't work, it's ANDREW HUBERMAN: RICK RUBIN: Yeah, whatever And if something seems and you're excited by I try very fringy things. I like, in some ways, it seems, the more because I feel like that's that somebody doesn't ANDREW HUBERMAN: But guy like the big psychedelic and that happened some years. RICK RUBIN: I'm not against it. It's just has never been ANDREW HUBERMAN: an interesting area making headway inside of and medicine now. RICK RUBIN: I'm interested in to things, whatever they are. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I'm a behavioral do's are that they're the most fun unless it's something like doing parkour, or you're not going to There's more room for is with a pill or a potion. Although, certainly, So you've had creative within the realm of music, also and other things. For somebody out there maybe they're know they have this creative What was it that Strummer said? I actually wrote this on No input no output. RICK RUBIN: Wow. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's written in my laboratory. The people in my lab were I think one guy but it was a picture of him, and no input no output. I don't think I can just walls, and a ceiling, and I mean, I know that there in here, but I do the world is important. RICK RUBIN: And the world is If we're paying attention, If you're paying attention, the is being either whispered in the outside world if ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I forget but there's a chapter or being on the Now, I feel tempted to of that chapter. RICK RUBIN: It's probably look ANDREW HUBERMAN: Look for clues And since you wrote it, RICK RUBIN: Well it's ANDREW HUBERMAN: So do you think RICK RUBIN: Yes, I think If we pay attention, It'll trigger a thought. We'll see something unexpected. If someone recommends maybe it's a coincidence. If three people recommend maybe it's not, who knows? Who knows? I do believe the universe is And the universe is And they can happen happen through someone else. So if you're paying attention, ANDREW HUBERMAN: We had a Justin Sonnenburg. He's an expert in And he applied something he applied the the opposite is true principle. We were talking about these that clearly are doing neurotransmitters, and even decision making, how driving appetite, et cetera. And he said, we think but maybe we're just vehicles That all of our every time we shake we're exchanging gut microbiota. And we think of intelligence And he's a microbiologist. And in all seriousness we're the ones We're the house cats. And we think here we are, and kissing, and shaking hands, all sorts of things to isolate And maybe the gut trying to optimize RICK RUBIN: That's what Laird in the sauna-- that when you're in the The feeling that you have could be the bad critters in ANDREW HUBERMAN: Like RICK RUBIN: Are trying to to get out. Maybe that's where the feeling comes from. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So Elon might be a bit of-- maybe they just And so they're RICK RUBIN: Maybe. ANDREW HUBERMAN: to feel like I'm channeling No, I think this considering And while it might to people or a little bit like that's exactly what Someone walks in with a This is true. And you say, but what if A good example pulling from podcast But Alia Crum is this who works on belief effects. Your knowledge strongly shapes And she had this amazing what if all of exercise Yeah, burn some calories Turns out this isn't the case. But it turns out a lot of positive effects-- relieving stress, but nobody thinks because we're so attached to RICK RUBIN: I think that the belief part of it is about everything. What we believe has power. If we believe we can the chances of us are better than if we So I would say, any your belief on your behalf is ANDREW HUBERMAN: And one is that while our own abilities from time to time, believe that the elements from RICK RUBIN: Absolutely. All the elements are here. Everything is here. We get to pick and choose. We get to-- the conveyor belts And we can-- first, we have to Then we notice the gifts. And then that's And then we may even to grab one of the up, and see what's inside. And then maybe that started that we wouldn't have done. Everything that I has always been based or hear that allows that I didn't see before. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So I was going it's important to be but certainly a lot of were still able to create. But the more I listen that it's really about an RICK RUBIN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So if I'm may not be as relevant I'm able to stay undistracted. RICK RUBIN: Yes. I would say that's-- I would say being able to stay the most important part of it. And how you feel is less of gets in the way of you feeling Do you know what I'm saying? If you're in a lot of pain of art, it may be hard to know because you're-- the big signal in your I'm sure there are some who can, even through the ANDREW HUBERMAN: Now, there's of taking one emotion and into another action But this idea of this really resonates, I think. When I think of times is when I was able I could also see how success This is often discussed in the where someone starts and pretty soon their focus they can access with to the thing that got them Keeping an underdog mentality. RICK RUBIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I do want to ask you about which is meditation. Meditation is interesting we close our eyes as and we focus on our brain, Like if we-- RICK RUBIN: I wouldn't ANDREW HUBERMAN: Or other than our normal how would you define meditation? RICK RUBIN: Well, there's different types of meditation. Either way, I would say there we're focused on our brain. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK, good. I'm glad we disagree. RICK RUBIN: I would say, here We either are engaging would be a version a trance for ourselves, not when we go to sleep that would from participating. We would be overriding a sound that we're or phrase, a series of phrases. Meta meditation is a with phrases, could be focused on the breath. But the purpose of being is to not hear the self-talk It's a single pointed that I described. The other version is an where you're closing your eyes. And you're being with so if we were to do it eyes open or eyes closed But the first thing that I I feel a little It might be from the And I don't mean that It's like a vibration. I hear cars passing Let's see what else comes out, I I can feel this part of my face. I'm not sure why. It feels like it's More car sounds. I'm aware of a little So now, I would say the I wasn't aware of that before, with what's happening. I feel a little itch So that would be an which is another kind of paying attention There's no story. There's no this means this. None of those things. It's like an inventory, that comes up when it comes up. And you do that for But in all of those of doing the or doing a mantra meditation, in none of them am I thinking. And none of them am I'm being aware of in the awareness one or I'm doing a practice aware of thinking ANDREW HUBERMAN: When and how often do RICK RUBIN: I learned And I started with TM. And that's probably that I've done the most in Although I tried many different physical Tai Chi, things like that. I meditated for And then I stopped when I And then I started again And when I started again, it wasn't in me that I So I usually have some In some ways, the beach walks But for me, typically, It'd be the first thing I would maybe go out in the and meditate before If I'm doing it twice would probably be if I'm doing it on Then if I find myself I might meditate for an hour. I can remember, one time, from New York to LA, just to do a deep dive. And time passes. You lose track of time. You don't even know-- it's like going to You don't feel like It's just time stops. Not always, but when it ANDREW HUBERMAN: some meditations did on that transatlantic-- transcontinental flight. And I've been trying to get-- do but I've always But your meditation practice is maybe we could a suggestions of one or two for listeners. I'm sure they'd appreciate. RICK RUBIN: And there's also to do that involve-- there's something called from the Monroe Institute which You listen to this recording. And it both allows your and remove some of the trauma open-- it's traumatic. But just through listening you can have a really powerful I remember I was about to And my eyes were closed. And I wasn't there because I And my wife was with me. And they came in. And they said, oh, so they because he's ready to go in. I don't think you He's like, look at his numbers. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love it. Yeah, it's an amazingly that I like because RICK RUBIN: And there's no good It really is just-- if you learn a technique and ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, so willing to share what Listen, I just want to say thank I want to thank you for and that you are to to be still ongoing, certainly your thought process goes into this incredible And I want to thank you I don't talk about or feature It's just not something but I've seen a little bit And then I've seen it in its final form And I'm going to continue It is one of those books with gems, like every chapter. I could take notes on this. And take notes on this. And it's assembled in a allows people to extract in every chapter. And there are so many in a way So I love the book. So thank you for doing didn't have to write a book. But I'm so happy that you did. And I know that I've I know so many people It's an amazing book. And I couldn't help but put But I also, about I learned to discard my and start to see things is a different perspective. So I just want to thank you for and also for being RICK RUBIN: Thank you. I love you. I'm so happy to And any time I get to ANDREW HUBERMAN: Likewise. Thank you for joining me today Rubin-- all about creativity and Please also be sure to The Creative Act-- A Way of Being by Rick Rubin. As I mentioned earlier, and such a wealth of knowledge out there, for those of you or to understand the And as I mentioned at the Rick has very generously about creativity. So if you have questions for or the creative process, or please put those in the by writing in capital letters, And then please put That will make it easier for I will record the I asked Rick, those questions. And of course, we to those questions on our If you're learning from please subscribe to That's a terrific zero In addition, please on Spotify and Apple. And on both Spotify can leave us up to If you have questions or topics that you'd or guests that you'd like me podcast, please put those in I do read all the comments. Please also check mentioned at the beginning and That's the best way to Not so much during but on many episodes of we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't many people derive tremendous like enhancing the depth for enhancing focus, and many other aspects of and performance. The Huberman Lab podcast that we are now partnered because Momentous of the very highest quality. They ship internationally. And they have single which turns out to be going to develop the most cost effective If you'd like to access on the Huberman Lab podcast, spelled O-U-S, so If you're not already we are Huberman Lab on and Facebook. And all of those places, I related tools, some with the content of the Huberman is distinct from the content Again, it's Huberman handles, all platforms-- Instagram, Twitter, If you haven't to our Neural that's a monthly newsletter. It's completely zero cost. And it includes summaries as well as toolkits for things enhancing your focus hormone support, You simply go to And go to the menu, and scroll down to Newsletter, And you can start receiving Newsletter. Thank you for joining me with Rick Rubin-- and the creative process. And as always, thank you for [MUSIC PLAYING]