This is seriously one of the most powerful uses a bottom-up approach, which is a body-first and that will help you reduce stress and anxiety [Music] Okay. So stress is a nervous-system responding to perceived threats, whether they be your head, like, &quot;Oh, what if no one likes me?&quot; the parasympathetic response (par as in helps restore a sense of calm, both in the direct control over our autonomic nervous system, when it comes to anxiety, the stress response like a saber-tooth tiger; it's turning on in these micro triggers, tiny little stressors that we let's say you're a professor, and throughout your um meetings, explaining changes to the curriculum, or student students emailing you to change their or co-workers who are helpful or not so helpful. without realizing it your body kicks off a little increases, your muscles tense, your digestion your breath. Why? Why would we do this? These are means more work for me. What if I don't have the threat. Or a student upset about the exam score, brain interprets rejection as a survival threat. helpful. This is going to lead to a change in safety or relief. And let's say, on the other this is a potential threat. So the stress response throughout the day. Now, here's the thing. Each super resilient. When we face a challenge, like it and we ask ourselves, &quot;Well, is this really what's right by holding boundaries, and there my job,&quot; then we can resolve the threat, and our body. Our nervous system is designed to to calm down and restore our sense of safety, but distracted to address each micro trigger and face just builds and builds throughout the day, each remain stuck in a physical fight/flight/freeze go home and collapse onto our couch and home and we try to relax, we are turning on that day is simply getting put on hold. We're just kind think about it, and that stress response gets kind mean, like, so relaxation is better than nothing, but anxiety. You see, relaxation is a form of getting stressor to relax. It contributes to the anxiety I'm going to teach you a more effective long-term called nervous system self-regulation. So what if response all day, instead of just like white-knuckling our way through the day, we learn instead to resolve the stress response in tiny moments hormones and the tension building and building and the whole day long, we soothe our body throughout You can learn to regulate your nervous system And this essentially does two things: it keeps you stuck in the fight/flight/freeze response all parasympathetically dominant. It strengthens your that parasympathetic response be your default. And leave a situation to do it. We can we can even do until the stressors are gone to soothe our nervous but it just takes a little bit of effort to you have to check in with your body frequently. So our nervous system. Are you in safety, activation, or have helped you identify what these different of checking in with your body throughout the Lotus Bud. And it has these random chimes that go frequently they come off. And when the chime goes &quot;Oh, am I feeling tight? Am I holding my breath? Do I and gentle and, you know, in the parasympathetic awareness. And then the second thing you do is you on the parasympathetic response in the moment. Uh yawning, or you just tense and relax a muscle. safe enough right now.&quot; You just check in with your nervous system, you'll retrain yourself to be require a lot of focus, attention, or performance. about every 15 minutes for the first week you're the first week that you don't ignore the timer. and then just use a grounding skill to turn on force it. Right? If you catch yourself getting sensations, just go back to willingness. Be present, them to be there. You can handle having feelings. it, you can regulate it, you can coach it downward, first, not force. That's like any good relationship. regulate your nervous system. Okay. So there's our minds this false dialectic. It's this idea must feel stress. Can we challenge this? Can you let's experiment with this. When we believe the create helplessness around our stress levels. can train our minds and bodies to separate the calm nervous system even in intense situations relaxed vigilance. Now, I didn't know there was another way to be in a high-pressure environment without that was just the way to be, like stressed out always things to do. So just like that professor, I up, I, you know, in the stress response, and the only for the weekend or a vacation. So after doing training, and the facilitator, um who was Eric and military operatives and other people with maintaining a calm nervous system. And he calls where you just calm your body down in the middle without being stressed. Let's experiment with this. beginning of this course. Can you calm your body We accidentally train ourselves to do stressful or we can intentionally train ourselves to do system. The best athletes, surgeons, cops, special build up skills to handle situations. They drill until they feel confident in what they do. Then, the even in the face of life-threatening situations. Um how I learned this stuff, um if you want to hear an After she learned to identify the three states of stressed she was getting throughout the day. She taught, uh when she answered emails, and around perceived danger? And with a little exploration, She was afraid of not being liked. And as soon as actually in danger. Like, it's okay if some of her timer on her phone to have a little notification She used a slow out breath sometimes, and other the little tense-and-relax thing with her muscles. to just notice that she was feeling uptight and up a little bit. Within a few weeks she noticed work. She wasn't exhausted every single day, and stress levels went way down. She didn't feel like simple skill of moment-to-moment nervous-system manage anxiety throughout the day. When you calm nerve to your brain to calm your mind as well. And for me to this popular phrase: Life isn't about to dance in the rain. And I was thinking about cue. We can all learn to soothe our nervous systems, to do. So please give it a try, and let me know [Music]