Well, this is one of the nicest in a while -- just sitting in Hey there! So, this is a new kind of video for out the fancy bow shirt. And I think you're So kick back, relax, and let's jump in. Hey there! Right now, I'm in Houghton, Michigan -- University, and I am here to see a boulder I first saw this thing when I was here back in I had no idea what kind of Hello, old friend. So, this boulder doesn't look like much, but wasn't the rock itself, but the sign next to it. from near Marquette, which is a city about 70 not where this thing started. In reality, the was blasted over to Marquette at supersonic Turns out, about 1.8 billion years ago, near Sudbury -- one so large, it blasted And also, it might have changed the I had never heard of this thing, so I immediately in trying to read up on this topic, I quickly There was enough context and back seriously wrong if I tried to dive in on my own. So I got some help. Meet Dr. Bill Cannon. He's a Scientist might be one of the coolest people I've ever met. Back in May, I kept seeing his name pop up in out and asked if he'd maybe be willing to do Turns out, he was going to be in Marquette in email, we met up at this little, unassuming And I learned so much. Like, here's When I say he's an expert in Marquette geology, [Alexis] Bill, how are you? [Bil] I'm fine. It's a But we're used to that kind [A] I feel like, in the very short I just get the impression that, like... Do than anyone or am I just hyping you up too much? [B] I'm probably well up the list... because [A] Yeah! [B] And I've done many other things; I don't But Marquette and the Lake Superior area in So, I've... yeah. I know... How More than most people about So, Bill knows his stuff. And among other understanding of the Sudbury Impact studying this area. But first, here's some So, about 1.8 billion years ago, there wasn't like phytoplankton. These organisms were and some of them were producing Overall, it was just a cool time in Earth history, and the planet was getting closer and closer one day, a rock came screaming in from This one was the size of a small city. [B] A good, good, reasonable assumption and 15 kilometers in diameter. big hunk of rock. [A] Yeah. [B] And factor in the amount of energy transmitted Because the amount of energy in an times, its velocity squared. And the least about. So you can understand that The crater itself has been estimated on the And on the large side, 250. So, it's reasonable to diameter hole blasted in the ground, and they [A] Wow. Now, today, you won't see, like, a a lot of erosion and other activity over that former crater isn't the only It also flooded the surrounding area with debris, so much so that it formed a new rock layer more But before we get into that, what really for a long time, geologists didn't Subarea is a major nickel mining district. geological work there for a century. But weird volcanic rock there. That is until Today, Dietz is more well-known for his But in the early 1960s, he published rocks at Sudbury were thanks to an impact. shatter cones in some of the rocks, which he And well, let's just say that When you first started in this area. [B] Well, that was... I started here in just a few days ago. [A] All right. [B] a very new, very controversial idea at People have been studying the geology of Sudbury for literally a century because it's a oceanographer named Bob Dietz, after suggested that this was probably a meteor impact And he was viewed as a heretic -- just absolutely some other people began to find other evidence all that time, you know, 50 years or more, it's the geology at Sudbury, including the major nickel In fact, it's interesting that that the city of and the nickel deposits are there because of illustration of how events in can still have an effect on what's going on today. Now, I mentioned that Bill and I met up at this that wasn't just for kicks. This roadside which is the best place in Michigan to see And what I was curious about was looking at here in the first place. [B] This was one of the latter ones that we early '60s. In fact, I first saw the site with a mapped it, and he showed me this funny breccia Actually, some colleagues in Canada had and they showed us what it thought, &quot;Oh, yeah, we know When we first looked at it, we were not very But the sort of the smoking gun of identifying, called shocked quartz. And this is a sort that has been... received, such a strong the crystallographic structure that is If you don't find that, the skeptics meteor impact. But that's critical to find. And then it was it was a slam dunk that this was And then, of course, came my [A] Well, on that note, [B] Let's look at rock. [A] All right. [B] It's [B] That's probably the... the best piece to see features in. You wanna [A] Yeah. I feel... part of me, I'm just like, &quot;It's a rock, I can sit on it,&quot; but there's a part of me [B, laughing] That's all right. [A] Well, this is one of the nicest in a while -- just sitting in the woods [B] Okay, well, we'll take a closer look at impact-related rocks. And there's a general term means material that's been ejected forcefully So in here, we can see... we've heard of this and also a general term is breccia. We can see these And these are most likely derived from the rock This material came over it ripped up some this. [A] Wow. [B] Hard to see on this, pits all over this. And they are little And this was material that was not just physically so much by the impact energy that it melted basically lava. And they have, And they'll make up a good deal of the finer of what the rock here at McClure looks like. There are many different ways in which you can form an ejecta layer. And this is one that we That means that the solid rocks that are blown from the crater come on ballistic And when they hit the Earth -- if you throw It hits and skips and moves on by its own is of this. This was a great mass of the Earth at supersonic velocities, and then and tearing up everything that it came in settled out in a layer that So it's a very thick layer. one event that's just... Right now, [A] Yeah, and that would have been a fast what was it, banded iron [B] Right. [A] Yeah, Wednesday. You've got banded iron [B] The first probably takes... this would [A] Oh, well, then, okay! [B] You know, it's coming out at some kilometers between here and Sudbury. and settles out in a hurry. This kind of blew my mind, this region of the Earth changed. Like that were being laid down here created a It's kind of stripey, and it formed in the seas But then, this impact comes banded iron formation. This rock So what happened? It seems like something drastically changed -- definitely in this Maybe it was some kind of extinction event maybe it was something else Oh, and also we haven't even [B] So as we look at a rock face like this, we're younger, younger as we go up. These rocks here, is the top of a band of iron formation. Bit of a close up, not real clear. But you can see then these other units are more iron rich units. banded iron formations because there are bands of These were the last layers of iron before the impact event. As we look at this of chert, these lighter bands... but they're They've been broken apart and jumbled around a breaking apart was created first by the enormous By some estimates, it could have which is greater than any So when the earthquake arrived here, it formation into small fragments and kind of jostled And then when the ejecta arrived, it actually sort And then as we go this way, it's successively still quite a bit. Up here, for instance, we are pretty clearly derived from this material They are now floating in this So you've got this story where a hits what's now Ontario, and creates a and beyond. And along the way, it might have also, One question I had for Bill is what geologists And partly, he mentioned that they're better understand the iron deposits But also, there's this. [B] And I think a bigger question, and I'm a on this... Is there really a mass extinction that way the sediment in the ocean was depositing That's a really big change in what the ocean was for that yet. [A] Sure. [B] I think there's a very fruitful area for research on that. [A] Open for anybody who So if you're looking for a Now, I learned so much from Bill, but one last is that, if somebody takes away one thing from So, as we wind down the I'll leave you with one more clip -- but it's also about the ordinary incredible [B] Oh, I think... you have to be open to a they understood this for a long time and they So, be open to that, and don't get too If you didn't have a bit of an open mind, you the... Actually, the people that discover this, Bay. They were two retired high school teachers, Greg Brumpton and Bill Addison were their names. about the Chicxulub impact. And they realized that a rock unit that is full of algal stromatolites, So they theorized, maybe this was related to the of their own time trying to find this, found it and proved that it was [from] the impact. So that was really the first discovery. And other people being able to find this around remarkable story of those two individuals [A] Cool! That's great. Well, Bill, thank you again so much. I feel learn cool things from watching this. [A] Well, it was a pleasure doing some of our information in a way that is not aren't going to see. And will learn what's [A] Yeah! Sory of my life. Thanks for joining me for this adventure. you were willing to share it with a friend or and I would love for more people In the meantime, thanks again special thanks to the folks who support my whole new kind of video possible. One