I am here to sign a that my last video is in fact, correct. This is the video in question. Some people may have missed it, but in this car, there is no energy source, besides the wind itself. And the counterintuitive claim, is that this car can maintain speeds faster than the wind that's pushing it. There is a physics professor at UCLA, who got in touch, to say that that the explanation was wrong. You know, we went back and eventually I said, &quot;Well, how about we bet $10,000? &quot;I can prove it to you. &quot;This vehicle really can go And to my surprise, he is - Look, no one is perfect, but you have a much lower error rate than most people on - Now, Professor Alex and all related discourse to be public. In fact, he suggested we get a celebrity to witness the signing. So I asked Neil deGrasse Tyson, Bill Nye, and Sean Carroll to be our witnesses. And they graciously agreed. - And Alex, I just wanna say, I agree with everything That generally I can watch it and not have to wonder, How am I gonna- - No, he's brilliant, no, he's brilliant. - I'm excited about this bet, because if I am wrong, then I wanna know. Like the whole point of the And that is, I think why And I think, you know, this is a great chance to sort of see. I'm going to summarize Alex's but I'll put his full presentation here. - So let me first explain In the video, the vehicle Initially, you have the wind but then the wind speed is not constant. The wind speed drops, and with deceleration for awhile. - So, basically Alex thinks a gust pushes the car to a high speed. And then when the wind dies, the car is going faster but it must be slowing down. - In fact, that will be my conclusion at the end of this presentation, that whenever you have I'll actually show you in an equation, the acceleration is negative. The second effect is that is measured at the height of about a meter or a meter and a half. But the propeller goes above the ground. - Now, due to interactions there is a wind gradient. Wind travels slower, close to the ground, and then faster, higher up. Now, Alex estimated that the might be 10 or 15% higher So it's possible that slower than the wind at the propeller, and yet appear to be at the height of the tell-tale. - Now, I think that However, in combination it just can make this more frequent, okay. And that completes- - Alex, if I remember the video correctly, Derek reports that they've achieved up to 2.8 times wind speed. That feels much higher unless the wind had picked up and then spontaneously sort of dropped. - Very, very good question. Okay, if you're going for the record, you probably will do many attempts. You will be sampling that gusty wind over, and over, and over, until you set the record, right? That's how you set the record. And on one of those occasions, you will get a nice strong gust, which is three times the air And that's when you will clock the record. And that's where that - So what about the treadmill tests? These are conducted in still air. By moving the ground backwards, you're simulating a And if you hold the car well, that's equivalent to the Now, if the car can move that shows it can accelerate But Alex had multiple explanations, why these experiments don't actually show what they claim to show. - If you have this fluctuating and then if a human it then can introduce unconsciously, a bias towards the desired result. - So, would it any be that is inducing the model craft to go across the lane now and then? And as you pointed out, I - Yeah, I'm sure, I'm that the guy in the video However, you know, if he - Yeah, oh he's trying. - Yeah, yeah absolutely, so there you go. - In the absence of convincing Alex turned to theoretical analyses, like one by MIT Aero But here too, he found problems. His main concern is that includes the difference and the wind in the denominator. Which seems to imply that when you should get infinite force. - Now, here's the real danger. Because if Derek drives that difference in speed goes to zero. If it's one millionth of one percent, that's like a nuclear Then Derek is definitely So we need to find something This is serious, right? - But dividing by zero, come on, you guys. I never looked at that. - [Derek] Alex performed his own analysis, and found no such divide by zero problems. In fact, he found there's to accelerate at, or above wind speed. - The acceleration of So when we, you know, so it's possible to move the but it's not possible to which would be needed to - [Derek] That is - That is right. - Okay, thank you, thank you, Neil. Thank you very much. - Thanks guys, thanks Neil. - So now it was up to me to that Blackbird really can When I posted about it on Twitter, Alice Zhang, who runs &quot;I think you lost Derek. I'm 80% on Alex's side now.&quot; What's amazing to me, is had seen my attempts to replicate For the first video, I asked Xyla Foxlin, to make - All right. (laughing) - [Man] Oh, no! - Version one ended in failure, but Xyla was undeterred, coming back in a couple - Is it feeling like it's gonna...? - Unlike these models, most She is determined. So maybe this tells us something about whether you can actually go faster than What was clear to me is that in the first video, and providing convincing evidence that it can really go faster than the wind in a sustained way. In my defense, I thought the concept was well enough established. Way back in 1969, Andrew Bauer build the first successful downwind cart. And he did it to settle a friendly wager with Aero Engineer, Apolo Smith. The bet was inspired by a from 20 years earlier. Now, Rick Cavallaro, was completely unaware of all this until after he built his cart. But other analysis have been published under names like the So I didn't honestly the vehicles operation, But clearly, there is a need So I want to do that now Alex raised. So first, let's deal with wind gradient. I mean, why didn't we measure the speed of the wind higher up? Well, the answer is because They mounted tell-tales on fishing poles out to the sides of the Now, although the lowest all of the tell-tales do showing that every part of the vehicle is going faster than the wind. Could this be because of a big wind gust that pushed the car up to high I don't think so. Even though I didn't have for my runs, someone that we could use the to determine the speed This shows that even after the car keeps accelerating. Another thing I want to point out is that, if wind gradient or gusts were the reason that the car well, you'd expect the or at least not point straight back at me. But it consistently until I had to hit the brakes to avoid crashing into parked vehicles. But if that's not enough for you, when Blackbird achieved its record speed of 27.7 miles per hour in a it was still accelerating. And we know this because there were multiple GPS units which were measured at the at multiple locations. The highlighted section shows the ten second measurement period over which the record was set. Also in 2013, the U.S Physics asked questions about Blackbird. Like, can it go faster than The solution says, both And with sufficiently low energy loss, any speed is possible. Now, I'll admit that the evidence I showed in the first when gusts or gradients could have explained the observations. But now that you've seen this evidence, are you convinced that faster than the wind without slowing down? Well, Professor Kusenko was not convinced. So I wanna explain how that no one, not even the professor, can doubt what's going on. The first thing to know, is that the propeller doesn't It's not working like a windmill. It doesn't turn the way Instead, it turns in working like a fan to push air backwards. This fan is powered by the wheels, which are connected to the So at wind speed, the because the wheels turn the generating forward thrust. Now the big question is, to drive the fan, there must be a backwards which tends to slow them down. So why isn't this force bigger than the thrust from the propeller causing the car to slow down overall? Well, the answer is, the wheels are going so than the propeller is So the thrust force I'm gonna do an analysis in the frame of reference of the car. And the important equation to know is, power equals force times velocity. So at the wheels, power by the ground moving underneath the car. The power generated is the force times the velocity of the car. At the propeller, work is done on the air, as the propeller pushes it backwards. The power out equals the times the speed of the car, The prop is going slower through the air due to the tailwind. And if we assume no losses, then the power in at the wheels, equals the power out at the propeller. From this equation, we can see that the force at the propeller will be greater than And since the propeller the air applies an forward on the prop. This is the thrust force, than the backwards force on the wheels. So, this car works like by applying a small force to the wheels over a larger distance, the propeller can apply a larger force over a smaller distance. This is just like when you're you move the pedals fast, to make the wheels move but with a bigger force. But now we've run into the that Professor Kusenko warned us about. When the speed of the car is exactly equal to the speed of the wind, it seems like the propeller That can't be right, can it? I mean, is our analysis flawed? The answer is no, for two reasons. First of all, this is theoretically, with any lever or pulley. If one arm of the lever is zero, then you can lift an infinite weight with any amount of The catch is, it's But second of all, in practice, there is a propeller efficiency term that is ill-defined when the propeller is not - There's a better formula which is well-defined It makes an algebraic mess, but it's perfectly well-defined. - And then the divide by But that equation makes the problem look more complicated than it actually is. You don't actually need aerodynamics. Here, I have a little that rolls on two smaller spools. And what I'm gonna show is that when you have two media moving relative to one another, well then if this car is it can actually move faster So as I push the board to the right, you can see that the faster than the board is moving. If you look carefully, you'll see that the big wheel isn't turning the way that It's actually rotating in That's just like the which pushes back against the air, and that's how it's able to go faster than the wind downwind. Now you can build one of these or you can build a model downwind cart. I told you, Xyla was determined. Yeah, I'm gonna make the claim on camera. I like, I think it's gonna work this time. We're changing the propeller. - It has to work before we get kicked out of (motors roaring) (chuckling) - [Derek] Does it work? - It totally works. - [Derek] Amazing. - Oh my god, it's so good. - Her fourth version of the and it was designed to using just a 3D printer and She explains how to on the engineering process on a video over on her channel. So go check it out. Now, professor Kusenko and he transferred $10,000 to me. So I wanna thank him for and changing his mind in light which is really not easy to do, especially in a public Now I do not wanna keep the money. I wanna invest it in So I'm holding a one-minute I'll be awarding cash prizes that explain a I'll put some details What I love about science, is that disagreements are not problems. They are opportunities for I learned a lot more about and gear ratios than I knew before. I also learned that I should go into I should make the evidence and put in some equations toward the end for those who want that level of detail. I wanna thank everyone involved Neil deGrasse Tyson, Bill Professor Kusenko and Xyla Foxlin, but especially Rick Cavallaro, the inventor and creator of Blackbird. He was a fountain of information, a constant source of support, and the man leading the charge this area of physics Let's hope this video once and for all. (electronics buzzing) The Blackbird craft all And this video sponsor, Brilliant, offers you a daily problem like this one about gear ratios. If the first gear spins at what rate does the final gear spin? Now I did this problem the hard way, but my wife figured out And that's what brain They get you thinking about the world, and they give you insights into problems you might think you already understand. Just think about how much more you would if you got into the habit of solving one novel And while you're at it, why not take one of Brilliant's courses, like on computer science, neural networks, or classical physics. Even physics professors can benefit from some of the lessons Somehow I managed to go my whole degree without learning Lagrangian mechanics. So that's a course I'm It's a really elegant way And I wish I had learned about it sooner. For viewers of this channel, Brilliant are offering 20% to the first 200 people to sign up. Just go to Brilliant.org/Veritasium. I will put that link So, I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.