Over the years that I've I see these same couple design mistakes made over and over again. In this video, I'm going to and show you how to avoid in your designs. Now, if you guys have we are going to get straight to the point. I'm going to keep all of and we're going to keep All I ask is, if you do enjoy this video, please just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. Alright guys, without further ado, let's get straight into this video. So the very first T-shirt design mistake that I see all the time is people create overly complex designs. Now you wouldn't think it, but T-shirts sell based on emotion. This is something that not but once you've sold quite a few shirts, you start to see that the were the most impactful shirts. This happens because these simple designs that are very impactful and relatable, they're easy to understand and they evoke that emotion faster. Now, the mistake that I see is they're putting way So it takes you a couple what that design is about to get that emotion to arise. So I know that one's a You probably don't hear people but once you've sold a lot of shirts, you're going to start So with that being said, to give you some real examples here, I'll put up some examples the ones that I don't recommend making, and then I'll put up some examples of simple impactful designs, and you should be able between both of these. Now just a small note speaking from personal experience, some of my best selling number one, number two, have been the most simple designs. The key here is that they are They only take a split second and if the person relates to So that being said, that brings us right into the second design mistake. What this one is is having too Now this is something new print on demand sellers, and the reason being is they don't have a graphic design history. As you start to create more you're going to find out that more colors do not equal a better design. The problem that you run into here is that oftentimes these colors they start to wash each other out, or they clash with each other. So no matter how much graphic the key takeaway here to is knowing that keeping it simple, just having a few colors is going to give you the Moving right along, let's get into the third And this one is using Now this one is actually So the way that this works with copyright and copyrighted graphics can own the rights to specific graphics. Now, I wanna take you in the computer here just for a second so this So coming over to the I actually pay for a I use it for many other things. I don't primarily use And the reason is all of these templates that you see on the left side, these are T-shirt design but not all of these are copyright free. So if you come in here and you're looking for something this library of graphics, some people could only rights to these, so you cannot use them If you are using them where you're not making money, But in print on demand, we and we are making profit. So my recommendation for you is that if you're going to use for print on demand, find one that is 100% copyright free. I will put a link to the down in the description, it's 100% copyright free and you can use it for print on demand. Alright, so that brings us right into the fourth T-shirt design mistake, and that is using trademarked phrases. This one, again, is going as we talked about with the actual phrases or that can be trademarked So this is going to come into effect in the actual design itself. So what that design says, but it's also going to come and your description of your This conveniently is something that you can check in just before you use a certain So let me switch you for another second here. I'm just gonna take you that I use for this. This is called Merch Informer. If you come over to the left go to trademark alerts, you can type in as many different T-shirt ideas, and you can search them all nobody owns the rights So lemme give you an example here. Okay, so as you can see, we've got our results I put in a couple phrases here, a couple different fishing phrases. I'd rather be fishing and fish whisperer. And then this template that we were just working with over here, we just checked that one as well. So from these results, you can see that you meaning yes, you can use that phrase, it is not formally protected. Nobody owns the trademark The same thing for I'd rather be fishing, but if you were to come up or you saw that somewhere else and you want it to use somebody owns the rights to So if you put that on your design, you put that in your your listing can be taken down and you get a trademark because somebody owns the Now I really should say who don't have access to Merch Informer, it's a very good tool. I stand behind them, I've I'll put a link to my down the description below, and they also have a free Okay, so moving right along. Let's get into the fifth and this is people ignoring So essentially what this means is when you're going into print on demand, it is highly recommended that you create designs in You don't have to stay Now with that being said, each they tend to have their their own different style, that people prefer buying. So if you're just using a universal style and you're just putting that you use and not paying or specific target audience prefers, your conversions on sales are going to be much So the way to avoid making each niche that you're going into and get an idea of what style all of the best selling designs are. So quickly, I'll switch you and show you a totally free Just coming over to Amazon, this is the largest print on This will give you a very good idea of how that niche looks And in this example, I've That's going to be the niche And in some of these niches, you're actually going have been purchased in the last month. This is going to give you a good idea of what styles people are currently buying. So looking at these to see in the past month, see if you that is the same between all of them. So right off the bat here, there's not much of a style As you scroll through all the way across, 1000 If I can pull anything I'm going to say that geared towards men. Now not to say that women but they kind of have a on these designs. I can see it in this one over here. I again can see it over here. It has that distressed look. Let's scroll down and see if Again, I'm getting the and even more in a couple more down here. So if I were going to look at this niche, the things that I would be taking away, or that they have a distressed look and they're primarily geared towards men, so I would recommend spending before you go into each niche. So as you are creating those designs, you know what style to give it. Okay, with that being said, let's get into these sixth mistake. This mistake is having on the actual T-shirt. So essentially when you there are two different ways that you can print your designs. There are full torso prints. This is going to fill of the shirt, and then there These ones are going to be primarily in the chest area of the shirt. Now a very common mistake that I see people making all the time is they create their designs, they upload them to the and they upload a chess centric design in the belly area of the shirt. This really is just a rookie mistake, and once you realize what's happening, you're going to correct you won't do it anymore. So to avoid this, just and when you are uploading your designs to the print on-demand websites, use the scale feature and to make sure that that design is in the proper printing area. Alright, so that brings us right into the seventh design mistake. And this is copycat designs. This is something that I and I typically see it from So what happens here is when people just get into print on demand, they go in, they sort for what designs and then they go into that niche creating a very similar design. So if you are using and you're not changing anything on it, you're creating it way that would be considered This is kind of referred as opposed to formally but just know that copycat on print on demand marketplaces. They even say them in when you're signing up. Okay, so let's get right into and this one is buying design packs. Now I really caution you of buying copyright free Most of the time these packs are not actually copyright free, and you can still get in trouble by uploading these designs Now you can find these packs sold on a bunch of different websites. Most commonly is probably And the way that these as you pay a couple dollars for the pack, you're going to get a digital download of a bunch of pre-made T-shirt design templates. Now the mistake that people is that they upload them to the as is. Now assuming everything is copyright free, and you really can use if someone has bought that and they've uploaded that same design to that print on demand yours will be taken down You've uploaded the exact So if you are going to or if you're going to that has T-shirt templates, just be sure that you the T-shirt designs. Now what I mean by customize changing the colors, changing the graphic, putting your own spin on it and making it your own to another T-shirt design on the platform. Okay, so hopefully we're on Let's now get into the This one is using artificial intelligence to create your designs. Now this is going to be because artificial intelligence tools have gotten extremely good Now the reason that I caution you and I say that this is artificial intelligence generated designs are starting to run into copyright issues. Because artificial intelligence from the internet to create your design, it's not always going to As you start to look into this one and you start talking to for their print on demand business, you're going to see about design takedowns Again, since we are using you have to be very careful So all in all, AI is all I recommend here is especially when you're for T-shirt designs. Okay, and just like that, and what this mistake is So to give you a perfect say that you find the absolute best niche that has no competitors yet, you've created an awesome design, but you only made one of them. What's very likely to happen is a buyer's going to come into that niche, they're going to see your design, but they're not going to or the colors or the design and they're not going Even though there's no competition and you made an excellent design, if you've only created one of them, you're going to be missing So no matter what niche I always recommend totally different designs in that niche. This means that when someone no matter which design they relate to, and they end up purchasing, hopefully it's going to be one of yours. Now if you're just now and you wanna see my entire process of how I do print on demand, start to finish everything I made a full tutorial for print on demand totally free here on YouTube. I'll put a link to it So guys, as always, I hope If you did, please just If you have any questions, let Otherwise, I'll be seeing you