Today I have the pleasure of speaking with Sarah at the Naval War College and she has written We're going to get into history, strategy, My first question, does grand strategy these countries, the people making these so many individual ambitions and desires and they have to appease. Does it make sense Before I get going, I have to make an obligatory those of the US government, let alone the US Navy the US Naval War College. Okay, now Yeah, it is useful. I'm going to define grand instruments of national power in the pursuit modern governments in the West, they have Those cabinet portfolios represent the different trying to run foreign policy without having If you look at countries that have for instance, Japan in World War Two versus Japan by the time the Japanese got into World War Two, Navy too, but the military was their main coordinating with civilians. They assassinated They didn't listen to their finance minister grand strategy is absolutely necessary. want to improve your own security or you want all of these different instruments of national who don't coordinate get into deep, dark trouble. is the ideal but if we want to understand history individuals? A previous guest, Richard Rhodes, about how after the war, the different branches of who would get more funding weapons was a big part of that and how many. between the different parts of the government in the case of Japan, why they invaded China then isn't it more useful to just talk about the strategy of the country? individuals making their arguments for what they excellent example of how the sausage was made. of years ago. So here's the Allied Commander from and what he would do is bring in all the relevant have them recommend various courses of action and and then they would hash it out and of all or choosing one of them. debate. People are going to have all kinds the great strengths of democracy. You have to argument is called "you lose the election" that you're going to streamline it and not have have problems.They double down on bad decisions. eventually wanted to ask you. In World War II, well coordinated and apportioned budgets And in the case of Japan, they didn't. and Britain were better coordinated? a different issue. If you think about who the were the conscripts of World War I. Think maybe your age as well, if they survive to come to start families. It's the Great Depression. It's where they're going to be strategic leaders, they So they thought deeply about what had gone wrong Britain and the United States. And their answer and integrating all elements of national power. Act passed in the United States, setting up Security Council, United Nations, NATO and off of the horrific war that was World War I You would think that the victors of a war would be inflated, whereas the losers are the ones whereas we see the opposite. The U.S. had LeMay and there are so many great generals Hitler himself fought in World War I so it's Initially, Hitler did incredibly well. His the Anschluss, where he gets Austria and is going the German people." he would have gotten away leader by Germans. But then, hubris, right? The he couldn't do it, but of course it worked, When you look at what you think are great generals their success has to do with a whole lot of which the British and the Poles helped us it have turned out the same? If you don't have and the people who built the Liberty ships, have scientists doing the Manhattan Project, enormous mobilization within the United States, and all over. So when you go, "Ah, Patton." behind him. We tend to personify it as You mention that if Hitler had expanded the borders of Germany beyond where they what is the latest at which he could have stopped, and consolidated the biggest possible empire? 1939. What if he invades Poland with the after or declare war on the United States, with Britain. Would that have been possible? he could have just controlled all of Europe. the ploy -- I'm just a continuation of Bismarck. German people. That one he might have been moment he's going into genocide against the Poland is why Britain gets into the war. won or at least settled? In that, maybe if it "You know what, we'll just let Hitler war with America. Is it possible that there's I think the problem with your question is in Mein Kampf exactly what he wanted to do and about. If he were about combining with the maybe? But that's not what he's about. He has There's another issue is that if you take off the Poles, the Poles never give up. The their history but the Polish identity never away. You will never have stable borders and because you have this dominated population Then suppose that before Stalingrad, he had 30% of the Soviet Union? He'll choke on his acquisitions. leader to just hold that whole section of Eurasia? You're talking about people doing territorial numbers of people to get it. You can watch this in butchering a lot of people. You're destroying that but since the Industrial Revolution in the that's probably not the way to do things. We are international laws, treaties that we sign we adhere to them. And then that allows little credit card transactions. No one kills Since the Industrial Revolution, who's making Territorial expansion isn't the way. It's a real of managing your national security. This is how Industrial Revolution with compounding economic which says we're going to compound our wealth by we'll run our commercial transactions that way. back against the Germans? Despite the government doesn't collapse like the Tsars did country is able to produce really advanced are so many mysteries there like why did central Despite the fact that Stalin killed off so many Ah, but Hitler killed more and was more did the Russians do? I'm going to A useful concept comes from the Samuel talks about death ground. What's death ground? which means they're going to kill you, and because if you don't fight, you're dead. And even that's the only way you're going to get out. Why? Because Stalin and friends had imposed on them. And they couldn't imagine that anything who then had them dig their own mass graves. And if you do this to people, you will conjure Russia. You can see it happening to Ukraine now of Crimea in 2014. You've got Ukraine, which at sixes and sevens about whether they want Fast forward to now, where you have Russians to them in the eastern part of the country. by Russians. Ukrainians think, "Aha. This idea The irony is Putin's forging Ukrainian national States, we started out with our 13 colonies and War starts forging a national identity. And by where you have northern armies, at least those a real sense of nation by the end of that one. with Germany and Japan was unconditional or anything, but do you think of that as different that Germany had in Ukraine or Japan had in against the South in the Civil War. How do you where your back is up against the wall. Why Because the United States did not put the The leadership had put themselves on death is that if he backs down on anything, he's out after that. So he personally is on career death that he would get executed at the end of the war. that they weren't on death ground. In fact, whole thing that the society shattered. start massacring the German people in the when they moved in or the way the Germans with eight or nine million Polish deaths in number. It's because they're being massacred. and Berlin. I think it was in your book of firebombing in Tokyo. Why did that not make them put them in the A, I don't know, but B, Japan had been at war large armies. This isn't like recent U.S. wars, Here they are sending hundreds of thousands of give up. It goes on and on and on. So by the time they had committed atrocities in China and got even worse. When there were wounded Japanese soldiers to execute them because they didn't want there. And so rather than have the allies pick imagine how Japanese soldiers felt about this? of the Japanese military, where they would by their superiors? Despite knowing about Oh, it's true. It's because it's a you belong to in-groups or out-groups. So the Japanese people and everybody else. But within etc. You go to school and get your education at are and there are various units within your job. it's all about liberties and my rights. In the you owe obligations to all of these organizations. thinking about grand strategy. They're thinking you as a soldier start losing a battle, you can because you're going to live to fight another you come home back as a failed soldier, you bring anyone you are associated with. So that's However, by the time you get to the end of is something like a tenth of our economy. They production. And they don't have any local oil not getting that food. So by the time you get to Finally, at the very end, you have Emperor would be assassinated or proclaimed deranged underage son to be used as a figurehead. He knew end, when he decided he was about to get nuked, at the cabinet meetings and there were a variety Could Hirohito have intervened earlier? Let's go back more than five years. If he is there any chance that he could have succeeded? China. What expertise does he have? He likes He has no expertise. And then, of course, there's this place. They look at the Chinese as an these warlord things going on and it doesn't dawn the Chinese finally get it going. "We're not the what the Japanese do that superglues China You can see parallels with Hitler doing the Putin's busy canonizing Zelensky and creating going to forget these ongoing events. that I thought was really interesting, and was one of the strategies you suggested. they could have allied with the Nationalists three-front war with Germany and the Nationalists. the Communists from taking hold in China. Given and how many lives could have been saved if beaten. That Japanese choice just seems so tragic. And that means if you're anything but It certainly would have been the most Suppose the Third Directive survived. Maybe it where the German lands were reconstituted. Suppose Stalin kills more of his people than Hitler had by Stalin's reputation a little bit because we had cycle we see in the Soviet Union is the inherent system. And then it breaks down and there's reform If the Third Reich had survived, would we see down? Would we also remember them the same way as can't sustain that level of craziness forever? Germans are far more efficient than the Russians was married to the poet Osip Mandelstam, "At least it's Russians doing this because if it there's always a hope because they're inefficient Hitler is talking about But so was Stalin with killing His idea is that Ukrainians need to pretend that. What you're describing is not a What's the scenario in which both defeated in World War II? Is or counterfactual where that happens? World War I has enormous consequences. All No one is doing grand strategy in World this is what we're all going to do. And then of young men up over the trenches. What do send them over the trenches? This is how you get in a battle. In our own day it's inconceivable. war. Not only does it upend Europe by getting rid the Russian Empire, but it puts two really communists. And that's how you get all that evil. Once they're off and running, you've got problems Back to your initial question, does grand strategy didn't practice it and the civilians allowed is a country that is maritime by geography but not Britain's great strength in World War I. The the beginning of the end of the British Empire. all the way from 1939 to 1945. Whereas Stalin and in fact collaborates with him to dissect any ambition that a czar might have had. Whereas loses all its territories. two countries post World War II? And why did the You mean like retaining an empire versus different kinds of empires. Russia is a classic Britain's empire was all about trade and world. That was initially what it was all and then you want to get the trade through. barristers all over the world, barristers are of having international law where people independent countries have a legal training to use But anyway, Britain has this non-contiguous empire to hang on to them because of nationalism. That's what Napoleon leverages to create the nationalism and it's incredibly powerful. And the world ever since. Once you have nationalism, because the locals are going to fight and resist. be too expensive to hang on. hang on to its empire. It left and negotiated its which it lost, and the fight in Algeria, Russia is a different event. It's all it can hang on to it. And so yeah, it hangs But if you look over time, initially Stalin the 60s, 70s, all of a sudden their growth Yeah, they're still growing, but the difference are enormous. If you fast forward to now less than Mexico. There's nothing wrong idea that they have this huge, they don't. because Tyler Cowen has an example of this growth rates had been 1% lower every year from GDP would be lower than that of Mexico's. comment. This is how sanctions work. they don't work because you don't make whoever's they do is they suppress growth so that whoever's they're weaker. And the example of the impact It's powerful over several generations. so well? In terms of, after World But before you say they did so well, look That's my point. I should say why Stalin did so well. died and he lived and he kept his dacha. understand the counterfactual in which it doesn't FDR to be sufficiently anti-communist, especially land that the Soviet Union was able to accumulate? some talk about whether to invade up through the put you back in time as a serviceman. Do you want Or are we just going to call it a day? And also He is fighting me at an advantage. Do you really US leaders looking at it and going, this is going But there's this narrative that FDR was also wasn't that and it was just that Well, A, he died so we don't know fully. But he war while America firsters were saying, "No, preparing all of that. And yeah, if you're going and the United States are, as in the Napoleonic huge army if you're going to deal with that So you're going to cooperate with Russia in the which is Hitler, who's far more efficient near the high value, industrialized parts of going to deal with Hitler first. Stalin as an ally, of course, you're That doesn't make you a communist. That is just in his face while you're fighting the war? will be elections in Eastern Well, we tried. We tried very hard. Britain because think about why Britain got into the feasible. When you get to the end of the war there's nothing we're going to be able to do There's cases in history where it seems like there take over Russia or after Mao was consolidating hard to plan some takeover. But in those cases, tenuous and contingent that... would it have been efforts to prevent these regimes from getting with the consequences of them getting into power If you're a Russian of any persuasion, I suspect across the seas is going to determine what a problem there. You asked me earlier about the entire world telling others how to live? people like Stalin are a reflection of the Stalin, waves a magic wand and everyone does these millions of deaths? There are millions of deaths. There are a lot of people who think it's We personify this with Stalin to understand We personify how wars turn out often by it. But it's a much more complicated thing. You've done so much research on Russian and do the Bolsheviks take over in Russia? And if that beyond? Because there's not the Bolshevik example The Russian revolution is essential What are the chances that the White Army Unlikely. If you look at Russian rail Moscow and St. Petersburg, which the Bolsheviks it means you're on the end of these different to link up with everyone. Whereas the They also occupy the industrial centers. their enemies in detail and win that thing. after the war, the nationalist could It's difficult. The nationalists don't get the no way to get Lend Lease aid to them during the got to have ports and railway systems. And if you blockade of China's coast. So we're trying to and you're flying jet fuel over the hump so there's no way to supply the nationalist armies. is a terrible mistake. I suspect it would have that stuff and then it would have been useful for wins against the Japanese to make him look good. armies. And then think about it as the communists. "Oh, all of our problems. It's all about the Don't get me wrong. But the reason they're So the Japanese did end the nationalists. that not only were so many nationalists killed in effect that the most competent and brave were the of the crop left to fight the communists. comment that's been made about World War I, that and so they don't go on to have children. leaders and are unavailable in World War II. of what are the kinds of people who what are the broader consequences for it? statistical evidence isn't there? people are the most likely, right? And It depends. A lot of the people who died in World Huge numbers. I can't remember the statistics, but you finally get up to hundreds of thousands in' it's because of starvation. starvation of the Hunger Plan? where you've destroyed all transportation and the the farming population all over the world, you for when people say, "Can you have avoided the and probably saved millions of lives because of a sudden you're starting to ship food around. it was obvious that they would lose? And of the deaths happen after '43 when it was I know. Well, it's because the leadership was all story that if the other side wins, they're all and they are very tricky to end. And this has wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Easy to start, Ukraine and we'll see how long this goes on. how well do you think the insights of scholars of military leaders? Where people like you how empires overextend and how invasions can be does that actually percolate to the military to do an Iraq war and Afghanistan war? to interview those people and ask them what I work at the U.S. Naval War College, we have the world who come on in. We assign them readings what we do in strategy and policy or case a lot of the kind of questions you're asking is things. How much it influences them later But surely you must be optimistic about right? Presumably you think that situations helps leaders now make better think that pipeline is functioning? but I can answer about me. I grew up during the as it was ending but I didn't know it was ending. study the Soviet Union when it was and they had If you want to make good decisions, you have make an accurate assessment about yourself and understanding the other side. One of the things is what I call half-court tennis. They study the focused on Team America. It's like half-court Balls come from mysterious places. Some people get then somehow I'm going to play this game. Think They know about all the opposing teams and who's you need to understand the other side. It's not Growing up in the Cold War I'd heard that I'd learn more about it. I first started was going to learn about China. And I realized, Japan and wind up studying their relations the world from their point of view. Not that it's So for your point of view, when you're picking up give the book a 30 second read. What's flip through it for 30 seconds, and see if at of the countries being discussed. Because how the United States that has not a single source How do you consume these? Do Oh, no. I can make bad spelling errors in things slowly with lots of large dictionaries. take a look at the footnotes in the back. You'll Yeah. It is perhaps the best military history your book on Japan, The Japanese Empire. And you of essays, which I highly recommend because of Let's actually talk about your research. research around the world and throughout people might not know the extent to which you've I have co-edited a series of books on naval United States is a maritime power. If you want US security, go to those. Particularly a book Warfare, which is what we do. The expedition will rating and blockades which is a key is if you exercise a continental foreign policy, don't need to get into. But because we have it's a major point of strategy of whether to to understand the maritime position in the that if you're interested in learning about that. You were asking me about research. Back in when it was, and then a year in PRC right after exciting. There were armored trucks all around but to neutralize them and then it happened. And years in Taiwan over the years of just reading much vilified as the former secretary of defense. he wasn't worried about the known unknowns because unknown unknowns. And that's why you do archival that is actually terribly important? So I did a up after World War II, you can get into military then it's much less afterwards. Well, China and I wouldn't go into either country at this stage. or during the Soviet Union? We were in the Soviet Union while Gorbachev foreign ministry archives there, but only you could still get into various archives. nationalist archives were much more closed. Now now, you will get yourself arrested. And China So to compensate for that, for the last 10 going to the U.S. presidential archives. Starting Truman, Eisenhower, and then this last spring, now I'm in Britain using their wonderful national 1945 period researching the Cold War. You might I would argue the Cold War began in 1917 I decide when wars begin." Not quite if the other it very clear that they had declared war on attuned to this and worried about communist ideas stuff. So I'm reading their archives, whereas the To what extent did the educated classes being United States into recognizing the Cold War? Red Star Over China by Edgar Snow. Bernard Shaw made a comment that if you you have no heart and if you remain one It's the idealism of it all. World War I seemed to capitalist countries are just imperialist. throw them over the trenches and destroy them. have dealt with their populations and how That's called the Big Lie. And it is amazing how then when they crumble, they're gone for good. a bunch of people saying, "Oh, Russia has no drug and lies that's being dished out from Moscow. the US and Britain on the Soviet Union's claims way it dealt with its own populations? I don't know, but I suspect that the sins of the press. And for anyone who'd been through World War at the trenches and came back and talked about that anything's going to be worse than that. he had a semi-free press and that's how incredible corruption going on there, you go, Well, actually, it could be a lot worse than this. elsewhere about the Japanese occupation of region and at the end, it had 50% higher GDP the most industrialized part of Asia outside those are some of the wealthiest parts of Asia communist counterfactual in other parts of Asia. of the Japanese occupation given the wealth of much the industrialization under Japan mattered? II, which is one of the really huge atrocities any doubt, going into someone else's country and If you go before that, if you think of the Meiji colonized Korea. It was brutal in Korea because nasty. Taiwan was much less resistant. To bitterness about Japan that the Koreans do. brutality. There was brutality. But what the Taiwan is they set about creating infrastructure. people. Do they put them in the top positions? do things like publish all kinds of technical journals about agronomy and improvement of output because you're spreading And because they do it from the bottom up, unlike and the locality and from there all the way up so States goes into places like the Philippines, time, the Philippine war is like early 1900s. The elites, sound familiar, who are located in the But it never modernizes what goes on. These very relationships of massive land control by not The Japanese do it by literally building up. Do not get me wrong, it's not remotely are treated brutally. But it turns out it's a very when they're booted, in 1945, the Koreans to work with. And then they're often running. the mainland, he could not do land reform in the They will kill him. In Taiwan, he can definitely comes in with all the weaponry and redistributes Taiwanese bonds. They think it's going to on the mainland. Turns out those bonds were worth that people actually collected on their bonds many of the pieces for a really And if you look at China under Deng Xiaoping, is rather like a parallel, his generation to the the Meiji generation. Bad news. Well, we're into do not deny the achievements of the Meiji Japan does all the atrocities, they can no There's so many interesting things there. There's Studwell, where he is trying to analyze why Korea, In the case of Korea, he tells a story where to export goods and they're working six, seven his underlings that the reparations on which came at the cost of your family being raped that we're using to grow the economy. You Sorry, the broader question I wanted to ask was, Manchuria, Korea, Taiwan, if they hadn't made Let's say something like the Japanese Empire even know if this is a question, but I'm just have a really wealthy and prosperous area of Asia. the Great Depression hits and it's a mess. tariffs. This is the Hawley-Smoot tariff because we got to keep jobs for Americans. thinking about what everybody else is going Japanese who had been good citizens within really high positions in the League of Nations, this pulls the rug on all of them. This pulls the with the international order. Japan is trade will trade with them. Their closest people we need an empire because we have got to the basics for us. '30 is Holly Smoot Let's go back to grand strategy. This is Americans Life is an interaction. I can tell you whatever decisions. If I don't consider what your decisions And I think about Hawley and Smoot. They of young men across the world died because more broadly. Think about the lesson of the Great starts getting cold, there are meetings of over to prevent it from going crazy ever again You take people who are poor already and then decisions. And then once you start a war, it's Japan then is making an ugly decision because is where all their investments are to protect Japan, if it had just sat in Manchuria, they they do stabilize Manchuria. They are bringing escalate big time in '37, they ruin their economy. It's a disaster for themselves, most of all. from these military histories and especially your which country has more production and so on, a single decision point by a single person, that need more oil and you feel like the need to invade preventing these sorts of catastrophic mistakes. Japan's decision to attack Pearl Harbor is overextended in China. They want to cut out US state, and it doesn't become a state until racist view of Hawaiians of whoever they think going to take a newspaper and slap the Instead you create great power allies all across pivotal errors that you can make at which point Putin make a pivotal error. He was getting away he made the pivotal error to try to take the whole Actually, I want to ask you about that. Japan in 1939. In retrospect, we think of them whereas they were separated by eight years. I years down the line or the things that could same time as this, which could lead to that it could cascade into something like that? of this. Of course, it could and there are many You see all of these meetings where our leaders some global war with people with nuclear weapons, they're going to go for one more roll of the question is whether the people below them about low probability but high consequence but I know the consequences are huge. over many years and decades. not use nuclear weapons, right? That Pandora's Especially if there's no One of the things that's interesting from that are seen by one side as a deterrence are The embargoes from the U.S. are seen by Japan as examples like this. People who are less empathetic which we thought would be a deterrent, was that we just generally make of that lesson? the people living in the countries in question. people in the world, or since we're in in between doesn't count, I believe that's wrong. wanted to join NATO. They've had a whole history I'm not making it up. This is what Russia's Russia is going to do more terrible things. could to get into NATO and also be in the EU. living of people in Eastern Europe that the Soviet they have been freed of Soviet domination, it's It's allowed people your age to travel the world They can do podcasting. [Laughter] should we deny these things because we got a continental empire?" You or I cannot change about the things is their decision. But if you with more insulation from Russia than not. in terms of both halves of the court in tennis just nudging that number up and down matters Eastern Europe gets to be part of NATO or not? hope was in trying to get Russia to join the into Europe and paying them good money for it. that they would invest this into their road they would invest this into cleaning out their a business there. As you can see right now as over. Different successful business leaders wind and old people who always seem to fall downstairs. That was the hope. Join the party because you living have been stagnating for basically taking over your neighbor's stuff and is not an efficient way to make wealth and you're denying people of Eastern Europe saying, "Well, attitude, you get to be their serfs forever." same reason that you mentioned and we were have made sense for Americans to have kept at the time from succumbing to the Red Army. But supplied by tremendous amounts of Western aid. They're willing to fight for their country. not like it's 40 billion or whatever. numbers or the nuclear war probabilities? The Ukrainian forces are dispersed. What's Or, I don't know, he thinks let's go bomb NATO headquarters or something. and this is pure speculation, "Buddy, if going to get nuclear weapons and all of small club of people with nuclear weapons and the And also look at China. It has more nuclear some of them are totally nuts. Let's try North Korea for the country Although on this point, another thing your books that make very little strategic sense and are would be very stupid for Putin to escalate, I could imagine him doing very stupid things. is stupid is not explanatory. Saying they are reasoning. A lot of Westerners, when they think in the interest of their population. So when security and things, then we say those aren't for instance, it's all about maintaining the rule. If that conflicts with having higher living Communist Party. So you go watching those kinds talented entrepreneurs are being relieved of their pivotal error. He has no back down plan. He only forever. And then the question is whether all the his generals or whether they give him something I feel like this is one of the lessons where you don't want somebody to feel like they're if it would be an unjust sort of resolution, face can be good. I wonder if your historical Putin will be back for more and But then what is the solution? We can't No, no one's marching into Moscow. The United recognize the territories that he's taken, which regime of some type forever. And you go, "Oh, to it." It will depress Russian growth forever, conversation of sanctions being really powerful. at the very beginning, "Oh, no. We are going That's exactly where he's heading them. We don't predict when or whether they'll reassess. We can't civil war in Russia which would be destabilizing Ukrainians are fighting for their country. whether superior finance wins wars or something. it's interesting that the Europeans, particularly this. Isn't it fascinating that the Finns are now all over this? And they know. The enemy as the Russians are playing this game, our unlike Iraq and Afghanistan, where the this is where the locals are fighting and that's successful versus unsuccessful interventions. that's when your best odds are of helping them. World War 2 our occupations of Japan and Germany ideologies and completely transforming the society we didn't have the same effect. What explains why Easy. One is a case of rebuilding institutions and can rebuild things rapidly. Think of how after the bombed buildings. Both Germany and Japan had an local police officers, offices, to educational running the train systems and businesses and And so finding the expertise to recreate that living there are very interested in rebuilding. what the key thing the United States then did what their constitution was going to be like and he got his staff to write this constitution bombed out libraries trying to find examples together. It was long before there's an internet figuring out what the constitution is going to be. Japanese are thinking is "Well, the Americans this constitution but once the Americans And what the first post-war Prime Minister Yoshida But he realized because of universal suffrage, a certain amount of land reform, he said there balance of power in Japan. Another feature is that Their strategy had led to the firebombing of It's the same sort of thing in Germany. You get the Western Zones united because of all the eventually get two Germanies, etc. But then both in Japan and Germany, who of the war that they'd been put through on rebuilding their societies and they're There's no parallel for that in Afghanistan countries. Germany and Japan were developed does it take to become a developed country? a whole other piece, which is that the Germans So you don't have to worry about nation building You do worry about state rebuilding. So In Afghanistan and Iraq, there's no sense of a but my understanding is you have these very each other. You've just got a civil war going on of civil war where the ones in power just ruin they ruin the other people. That's In addition, because they're internal locations a variety of neighbors. And if you look at those are going to intervene." And they're going to an island. It's hard for people to intervene. having troops and getting the German army be Ukraine's future where they will be... well, in Europe and then they're going to make it And Europeans as a group understand that it impregnable border around Ukraine. It protects would love it if Russia would join the party. You'll do well. Except the oligarchs in question, they personally won't do as well. But now Speaking of miracle generations, the about, learned so many reforms from the West, economics and education and law. And within the make quagmire after quagmire, make mistake after to solve the succession problem after a really Lee Kuan Yew. It seems like the government has bureaucrats. Whereas in other cases, you have the mistakes that led to World War I. made that their level of grand strategy I wouldn't pick on them because they're It wasn't perfect but no one's perfect. I wouldn't brilliant. As are Japan's post-war leaders. question about grand strategy. Are institutions making. Now, it's very difficult to figure out you see failings in them, you know I've got the brilliance of this evolving maritime order in in which it's in their interest to sign on you have provisos of the parts you don't want. and then you influence how they develop, etc. the ones built right after World MacArthur's constitution and then Japan's the institutions that they have. But institutions it as sort of like a spider's web. So that you but then you spin enough of it and then it really come through and they undo the work of others. personalistic. That's not about an institution. a reason for getting rid of royalty running institutions in Germany, a general staff, and I was about to mention that another generation the American founders. But then there was also the there some institutions were weak. Let's talk about Taiwan. That's where the War. I think until recently the narrative and very good at engineering good And then we look at Taiwan and obviously it's Would that have been what China would have been Unknown. Because when the nationalists came to And one of the ways that Taiwanese which is necessary for them in order to guarantee exposed position put enormous pressure on them to on them that they need to get democratic. comprehensive after action report on it was this incredible corruption and the reform was feasible for Chiang Kai-shek on the all the landowners. And if you try to reform it got bloody doing land reform. The expropriated and there were massacres over it. land reform and that was native. earlier. One point in the land reform they did areas so it was easier to do that. And so not been well studied and it'd be fascinating if explain the tremendous loyalty to the South Korean the Korean Armed Forces. makes the interesting point that because these makes sense in these countries to have lots of having a single landowners with a large best idea when you have so much labor that can Anyways, going back to Taiwan. The growth rate of less foreign investments, data intervention in as much. And also obviously because or decrease the odds of Chinese action on Taiwan? of looking at it is to look at consequences. it is a high consequence event without a doubt. if you listen to their speeches, they tell you The West learned that you read improbable and said, "Oh, this is a nutcase. it quite accurately represented people. Even in to the population and they quite often very Putin has been quite clear of what he's been to. So let's judge Xi Jinping at his word and he's still in power, I don't know. But here's that Chinese people have to figure out the clearly made the decision that it wants to for a while there, during Deng Xiaoping, that to make for agriculture and things, they can things that allow people to get much wealthier. Now we're at the inflection point where you who are really integrated into the world and you have some very large, very successful The Communist Party worries about this because some influence over political decisions. And Okay, if it's off the table, how do you keep talking about. This 24x7 surveillance state. you'd have a better understanding of this than a 24x7 surveillance system where you're literally in order to put it into their social classrooms rolling their eyes at their it down as a ding on that kid's social score. on the facial recognition stuff. So they start The cost would be incredible. All the people And then all the false positives, which will considered disloyal. This is where they're at. And We don't know where their minister of defense happened to the foreign minister? Give me a break. comparison to the alternatives. There are so supplements and folic acid or giving them the childhood nutrition that is lacking in actually be worth it for the government if healthy people can bring in the future. is another guy making a series of pivotal right? COVID started in China. Go investigate it would be a non-starter. But instead, they do the instead of just being unlucky that COVID you're complicit." A lot of people died across and you clearly were letting people out of the for spreading this disease. This is a problem that are just too many millions of people who died. surveillance. It is an interesting the Soviet Union's GDP was dedicated to the NKVD? the load of the military was on the economy, best of their ability, it was really difficult And then they're busy lying to each other. and dictatorships. You're incentivized to lie effects of these lies. It means I can't make good and then it gets worse at the top. You're going the Chinese and the Russians as a result. War that if you did the calculations for the half their economy is being devoted to this. War II, the fraction of US GDP was like 45%. were 55. But don't quote me on it, I but it was horrific in Russia. Let's say we're I'm afraid I'm not going to get enough parts I got lots more. And then you're busy lying. So don't really know what the price of anything is, and we don't know what consumers really want. labor, and they don't understand preferences. It's more that they've got all this incorrect something's wrong, they're already in a where the numbers are just a mess. And so massive implosion. And then he tries to save the Speaking of which, after World War II, the making weapons, Mitsubishi and Volkswagen and products. For example, even GE in America. Whereas Apparently that thing was built on American technology that we weren't interested etc. But in World War II, do not forget about Imperial Russia fell. Absolute disaster. Why did them with adequate weapons. They had huge with their rifles and saying, "When you get there, they've done no training. And you're just wasting thinking this is how my government treats me? Russia is huge. So what do we supply? We supply rolling stock and getting their train lines jet fuel. It's high octane. You may know more Russians will starve. We provide a tremendous spam, comes from that canned pork. If you get one And we sent that all over the world and that's the of World War II were so sick of spam. But anyway, of things that without it, they could not have those things for Ukraine. So that the Ukrainians Why didn't the impressive industrial war the same way that it did in Germany This is a big difference between their The communist model is heavy industry and even though they wound up with the big military, light industry. And then they go on to do heavy one. It just works better for an economy. doing consumer goods, right? It's all about then playing God in whatever region they control Let's go back to Taiwan. What are conflict? Maybe you can give me your over I have no idea. I think you have to prepare for even though you may fail at deterring it. And position you to deal if bad things happen. how people are talking about this. actually directly intervene on the behalf Taiwan is a country of 20 plus million people. If about 20 million plus people? Lots. Yeah, probably most countries in the world to level a country because for the People's to begin with an artillery barrage. I presume right? We've watched how it goes in Ukraine. You're going to say that's okay. Our of international law. What is the fundamental It's the notion that just because you're big, you the fundamental basics of the whole thing. it's hard to argue that one island that is unlike any other area, has for decades said that saying that once we get Taiwan, we also really Actually, they've just been redoing Pradesh is ours. That would be a detail, right? and they get emboldened to then conquer Korea? Well, look at Chinese history. It the paradigm? Territorial conquest. Take off that paradigm. They're still on it. what is your opinion on this? Because in that Britain intervened on behalf of I don't know the details, but someone said that But just generally, is it wise to have Does it do a good job of deterring them? States because otherwise it would enable Taiwan if we had been unambiguous, the man might sudden we get pulled into a World War. just because there's a conflict there does military toe to toe. I would think it would international world order. It'll be sanctioned. about how many people have been lifted out of of millions. It is a great achievement of our And why did that happen? It's China's of joining the maritime order, following the basic then your transactions are also guaranteed. taking Taiwan, who needs it? The Taiwanese And they've made it clear they don't want The problem in China is a Communist Party It used to claim the moral rectitude card. Well, They used to claim the economic growth card. Well, It's the nationalism card. And they're playing it for the Han ethnic group in China, who constitute be theirs. It's a mistake. It will be a pivotal Other countries cannot control what the Chinese you can control it. It's beyond your abilities. head war with another global superpower. between China and the U.S. going nuclear? imaginable for the United States and China winners. There will be massive numbers of losers. Think about how Americans are so mad at each mask. Talk about something that's stupid. wearing a mask or not. If anybody nukes anybody be remotely the same way? Can you imagine? or just letting other people do their thing about We have many diplomats who are doing their best we do not control the decisions of others. you don't have children. But if you ever have and put down, they will wind up doing things that these people. You love these people. And they will put enormous pressure on them not to So the notion that we can take a country of one But the reason I ask is, is an island of 20 that could potentially lead to a nuclear war? is based on sovereignty. If you allow this, war. You just never recognize whatever it until kingdom come, so that they are not you tell them they need to cough up Taiwan. works, could the CCP survive a failure to take because of that, they get kicked out of the global I don't know. But look at North Korea. Talk about Kim dynasty has maintained its power. It's count on any short-term ending. Those countries not invade, negotiate their disagreements, improve international organizations, that world people to come and join. So if Russia changes them back into just the way Japan and Germany order forever. Our prosperity is based on it. The problem with the Communist Party, the paradigm to poverty. Think about it. When the communists that had happened during the Civil War. The 1930s It's a really lousy system for promoting country. It's going to determine your per capita more that makes a huge difference to you to have It's an incredibly effective way for taking power in power. It's incredibly good at that. But Since World War II, is it fair to say the same extent as our Air Force and None of our forces have been as tested. because they're doing land engagements. But peer competitor, give me a break. that of Afghanistan. which is why the Ukrainians are going Given that that's the case, how confident The other person that I interviewed in the UK was previous government, and he said that in the war would have to exit the zone of contention, which we be about our preparedness for a naval war? thinking about it constantly. One, our carriers a peer competitor. The vulnerabilities you are if you want to get up close and personal. On is that it gives you a base all over the world. then they're incredibly useful. And we own them. to build more carriers? Or do you want to build are you doing? That's the big decision and I'm not have, they're tremendously useful for doing these to answer operational questions like these. in Ukraine we have these drones that are Bingo. warfare. How do you see that shaping up? that the game? You figure out whatever they've which is the asymmetry. having cheap drone armies that can Yeah, this is it. And you're very much part of computer science and these technologies. doing in Ukraine is absolutely going to change expert. The other issue with the United States is these ships and airplanes, and then you wonder creatively, this is where war games come into the value of these smaller things? Can they I think you're going to learn a lot from this What is your opinion on how competent and given that there hasn't been a huge war for quite standards and the efficiency? that. I teach at the Naval War College how the Pentagon runs its business. I think the that there are incredible inefficiencies In the civilian part of it as well. Once people to get rid of that particular job, etc. College or elsewhere about how to make I teach in the strategy department, so we Is the era of great generals over? Maybe that we overemphasize looking back how much these they've become historically famous. or MacArthur. Whereas off the top of my head, I can name one. You have Valery Zaluzhny, people you're picking. You're picking people who war. And then as I pointed out, we use these I suspect the ones you're going to find And the fact that they've done as well And then it's not just the generals there, face of diplomacy. It's incredible. From don't need a ride. I need more ammunition." who are running the rail system who have kept their electric power plants. There are so who are holding that thing together. So, there What is the process that leads to the loss of in Japan. And why has the In Japan, it's interesting. If who are they? They're the people who won the If you look at their career paths, they had and they all knew each other. The head of the they all interacted. But they didn't create an but they didn't have a full up legal forcing of the government and have them operate on a So when that generation dies, everyone gets educated than their parents and grandparents have Army, as opposed to, "Oh, well. The founder of the the finance minister and had great respect have people not respecting each other. the details of China but if you think about Deng younger members. He must know everybody. And the people who are in and he knows the people they're a much more stovepipe group of Actually, in China, they do have institutions for communist governments have maintained very if you look at Communists, they're really good that was Trotsky's contribution back in the white officers and veterans of World War One and and military commissars. The military commissar The political commissar is the one who's who if the military commissar doesn't him and maybe also his whole family for good luck. In the U.S., though, in the Naval War College, Point or whatever, I don't know what the actual civilian from their education to their promotion? they also have this wide spread of experience? It's often a succession of MA degrees. Some you're in nuclear subs, you better know how to And then they come to places like the Naval War In terms of civil control over the Revolution, the Continental Army couldn't even get And then you have MacArthur, who is just ignoring Truman thinks he's got a way of settling things that overturn that. So eventually telling military officers you can't do that. shooting off their mouths under Barack Obama, civilian control. With MacArthur, he was trying tremendously popular. And it was the joint chiefs Truman, they don't want MacArthur having his to death because they thought he would press it. and their system, why have the communists You talk in Wars for Asia about how, despite which they sabotaged things, they had much If you think about how communists started, if weak. And you think about people who are weak, words to cultivate loyalty so you can get cadres since you don't have the ability you're going to use words to try to undermine I think wasn't the story of Al Qaeda was pretty It takes the powers that are the target of this think the Bolsheviks are crazy people and ignore effects and they are a threat and then you need And I'll give you an example, the United States the later stages of the Cold War. It involved just tell people the truth about the relative will be to destroy the allegiance of people in At the end of the Cold War in 1991, we ceased And then I remember I was on sabbatical and one of the people there was a great expert on the Russian propaganda station, he said RTV is They're just telling nut stories." He was right. crazy stories started getting a life of their own. just about to begin in Ukraine, he made the about, "Hey, they're about to invade. Here's buried Putin in the information war. So it The US ambassador in Japan has some really lively you need to Google them if you haven't read is really good at this department. Hollywood, the A lot of it's just based on telling the truth. But It's very easy to tell a lie. It takes a long Why was the Axis so much worse at collaborating it seemed like the Axis should have been in these nationalist militaristic movements, whereas In your book, you talk about when Japan's fighting Russia. When Germany does Operation Barbarossa on So if they had a two-front war what could have warned, but then gets dragged into a war against I'm going to turn your question inside out. did one side do versus the other side do? I'm around to the enemy which is that the Axis That is why the war began. That is an incredibly really hated the communists to ally with them dangerous thing were the communists, not the worked their wonders, Britains got all "It's If you look at it that way, that's one thing. versus secondary enemy. If I ask you the question who is its primary enemy? The answer would be Lebensraum and stuff. You go, well, Italy, who or whatever number they're up to, and the primary of those plans. Then you go, who's the primary because if they win, that's the prize to be taken. enemy of Britain, Germany. Primary enemy of the deliberately understood that Japan would never ultimately would if it took over all of Europe. know, kidding, we got three aligned on the primary Germany and it falls apart, which is actually which is Hitler, he's gone. All of a sudden, Cold War is often running. People act like it's Back to the question about the Meiji generation. Southeast Asia. What happened many decades did Japan just do that exact same thing earlier? of dictatorship or an authoritarian government to democracy? Whereas in China and Japan, that there? Is it just the power of the US? who knows what would have happened. If Depression, who knows what would have happened? a chance Japan liberalizes in the 30s? another thing about human beings. We human beings to suddenly realize, "You need to do these things. was World War I and that World War II generation the industrialized world. Not the third world industrialized world till very recently. systems that insist upon a monopoly of power The places you're talking about in Asia, they in infrastructure, extensively in industry of all You can have a lot of government planning and the economy works perfectly well. countries with different percentages. When you go Korea, Japan, etc. didn't do that. And so they get themselves on the line, putting the pressure Why was the strategy of the Soviet Union in was in Europe? In Asia they're playing off each other, for example China against Japan. or doesn't prepare for it adequately, why I don't know. I would imagine cooperative such a long time. They're trying to glue Humpty versus Europe where you have developed countries case in China? There are a lot more people in the institutions. It goes back to institutions. the first time around. Difficult in China. power? They have a vast coastline where a As far back as the 15th century, you have these navy and far bigger ships than Columbus. So why didn't they think like a continental power? it's a fact of geography. If you look at China, coastline as well but historically, where have From the North, the Northwest. If you look or down straight through Manchuria, etc. and just dominate China itself along has had to have a large standing army. When it got extra pocket change. If you have extra changes and you have trouble with people on your It's very difficult to have a world-class navy and it maintained the big navy and always had a tiny which was the beginning of the end for them, What level of competence should we assign our in a war, whereas at least the United States Afghanistan? We don't even know how the modern PLA as you were mentioning earlier, in authoritarian feedback that could lead to all kinds of What should we think of the PLA's competence? worried about that are the Vietnamese and meet them. Back in '79, when the Chinese they had massive casualties. The Vietnamese killed losses in Afghanistan and in fact, all US losses Do you think the Chinese would be good at people anywhere? Think about where would you be army. So where are they going to deploy them? You have millions of casualties sometimes. It's the same reason Russia I believe if you measure the number of locals who the civil war on top of it, it's thousands and We go, "Oh, it wasn't too bad for Americans." The Taiping Rebellion, I guess another... how many people died in that thing. you look at Chinese history over the course of all of years, all these different wars they fought killing each other." A mark of good strategy is doing this for a long time, don't expect them to actually. It might mean they do crazy, stupid Some final questions about So I studied computer science and I talk to a lot them, I think I have a sense of what it means it mean to understand history or strategy well? reading. And it's over a career. Also, publishing the best ideas that you've encountered but with what you do think and why. I feel after every probably got good eyesight, unlike me. If you go click, and go, is this one better or is it's one better. Do I see 20-20 now? year, where I just get to think, read extensively, unknowns. What is it I'm completely missing? open to reassessing, "Ooh. I got that wrong." If you're going to be studying other societies, good at any of these languages, but I do try through them as I do. But that's really essential. particularly in political science, where they ask relations and politics, they don't require them to part of it is, if you learn a different language, you have to learn all of these formality things My Japanese is terrible, but learning as much as hierarchical society works and you get a sense of stuff. So we're back at the opticians for this. And having to live there when Yeah. And then just asking people questions when I funny is you come back home and it gives you a Because things that you just assume everyone does, Have you come across something super shocking in a story of something super shocking. One of as you mentioned, that you had a speculation that the Russians cover up the rape of Manchuria Well, no, they cut a deal. It didn't work. And archival evidence that I'm happy to reassess. but something you've dug up that nobody noticed. the Naval War College. I started out I did not realize it but I'm learning about two of And it's fascinating learning about that. Then I College. And suddenly I'm teaching about British that? That's why my husband got me to do all to learn more about it. And that's where I got I gave the Marshall lecture that was published in views on what the difference between a continental career takeaways. It's a fundamentally Putin honestly looks at the world like, "If secure." Maritime powers, start with Britain, money from commerce." Because then I can buy a then eventually this order of organizing trade instrumental in this with Hugo Grotius, who is the run transactions by law, et cetera. This is an you get security. You have input on how it Whereas this continental thing is negative sum. territory. Okay, he took Eastern Ukraine and because he destroys whatever businesses had been of the tourist industry. And then you can look destroying wealth at a really rapid clip. If the PRC tries to take Taiwan, they think more territory is going to improve hurt themselves. Whereas if they just ignore the let them run their own place who wants them make money. That's my biggest career takeaway. the hegemony. No other country in the world wants the United States who think that looks great, in which the United States is the hegemony we're big and we're influential, but other people yeah we're an important part of it, but we Biden is doing all of these meetings with Ukraine, et cetera. And it's based on agreement of small. Who's prosperous and who's not, may I ask? Yeah, they're the ones who have massively the Cold War. It was really the third world. it and also China's now got these private military going to do is tank African growth rates, which one of my big career takeaways. And I tried to put the one article, which is like a 20-page read. things. A couple years back people were looking at that it's going to have the biggest economy your analysis imply that because it's not economic growth picks up, it will still not Doing what they're doing is all going to depress day. That is what at the end of the Cold War, to join it. If you think about all the money imagine what would have happened if he'd spent their road system is deplorable. And imagine if better legal system so that small businesses could protection money. Think what Russia could have They have so much energy, so many raw resources. Russians don't see it that way. They see it in have to come to terms with what they think. meantime, those of us who joined the maritime contain the problem by saying, "You cannot join You get a timeout from the global order, but Putin is he's done so much damage to Ukraine, and the Russians won't want to pay those. about from self-studying history, as opposed your understanding of strategy or history Let's do history. I think about my education professors. They just didn't waste their time on and while I was there, I did the equivalent of Because going to graduate school is such an everything else. So I just took massive list of what they had given me and having On the strategy part, this is where the Naval War In the strategy and policy department, what and it's tragic because they're better the strategy course. All the students at the War main joint military operations course, the main MA. In that one trimester in which we have them, And then there's a junior and a senior course, Alright, so because it's team-taught and the so I attend everybody else's lectures, or ones. You learn so much from your colleagues asking me about Bismarck. Why would I know about knew something about him, which I don't, and And then from teaching strategy, I learned all and they're tremendously useful for studying wars. without being at the Naval War College. It is the States that focuses on the strategic prerequisites It is essential to know this to practice U.S. if you have a continental position, if someone you have a choice on that given day, the capitulate or you're going to fight. So they In our insulated position, unless we start Canadians. Mexico is our biggest trade partner, wars that are important to our national security, do we get in? If yes, when do we get in? In get in? We could have avoided Iraq altogether if so you'd have to talk to those people about pros the chances were we were going to be in on It is incredibly important to understand this all these books with my husband, the ones which took us years to do. But if you want a short it's actually a fast way of learning about what The strategy course was absolutely essential from in books to put what I have learned there. The be organized around these strategic concepts of How did the medium powers try to wing in on the using? The paradigms, etc. So I'm going to try is what education is. It's passing the baton from learned over the course of my career. It'll take me years to finish it. Final question. My audience probably is and those kinds of worlds. What is to understand about history and strategy? it's going to be a well informed person and read they need to think broadly of these deep expertise. Do these technologies I do not know the answer. When you're creating etc. Think about these things. Think about when China does its Belt Road initiative, I would package to keep the dictator in power that if this is the I.T. thing you need to do to The west is the part of the world that has to be at the forefront of it. Think very deeply dictatorships over democracies because the reason live within the castle walls of this maritime protected on the outside. You have military dictatorship or by really stupid grand strategy.. last few years. Perilously close. If Trump had Ukraine would be no more. We would have Russian These things are terribly consequential. educated and you're in the growing part of the of these meetings. Think about organizing things. refugees or illegal immigrants coming over our to the South of us. Is there anything that foreign period to help alleviate this because it will of refugees pouring over our borders, you have phones together. But that's the sort of thing that other at these business meetings and talk to each Maybe my charity work is to me thinking about do I do for charity? I talk to anyone for free. On the point about tech and whether it is it very difficult to tell in advance? I'm sure Protestant Reformation or that the guy who made Hitler. Even with AI the thing that it was us collect information and congregate it." But language models because it's really hard to align CCP rather. Isn't it hard to tell in advance? about who are your prime audience are the bright what do you want to do in your life? I would think way that makes things a little better. Awesome. I think that's an excellent place to time. And really, you've written the best books better understand not only those periods of and insights about our own time. Anyway, this was Thank you for having me and asking all