What is a VPN, and how does it work? All about it in this video! VPN stands for "virtual private network." It's a tool that encrypts your internet location. What is a VPN used for? A virtual private network significantly boosts Thanks to its encryption, third parties cannot Even your internet service provider cannot A VPN also allows you to overcome internet All your traffic is routed through a remote in your country. Here are five cases when you definitely need One: you want to secure your online data. You need an extra layer of protection when Not all websites use HTTPS, a secure communication If you're visiting a website without HTTPS, by cybercriminals or other third parties. Unsecure apps also leak your data. But how do you know if the app you're using You don't. Apps are black boxes, and it's anyone's practices. Since a VPN encrypts all your internet traffic, or apps. That extra layer of encryption makes sure Two: you want to access blocked websites. If you want to use Youtube in China, VPN is It changes your IP address and redirects your letting you browse under the cover of its Similarly, VPN lets you stay at home -- at You won't miss your favorite content when Three: you often use unsecure connections If you spend a lot of time on public hotspots VPN protection is a must. Without it, a cybercriminal can use many methods data, or inject malware into your device. When on public Wi-Fi, VPN must always be on. Four: you want to avoid unlawful government Governments usually have direct or indirect in their jurisdiction. It varies from country to country, but your track your online activity. Thanks to all kinds of intergovernmental agreements, other countries. A VPN hides your online activity from all provider and government. Five: you use file-sharing services valid uses: distributing open-source software of internal information in an organization, And yet, internet service providers try to by setting bandwidth limits. Use a VPN. With it, your ISP cannot see your traffic Who can use VPN services? Short answer -- everyone. A freelancer trying not to spill her latte A gamer avoiding bandwidth throttling. A traveler enjoying his favorite content on A VPN is a swiss army knife -- you can use Whether you're a student overcoming unreasonable Or a business owner securing sensitive work (P.S. when working remotely, always use a be sent and received without an extra layer Or maybe you're a journalist working under Without VPN protection, your freedom or even The idea behind a VPN is truly simple -- everyone By encrypting your traffic and hiding your What is an IP address? IP -- or internet protocol address -- is when you connect to the internet. Without it, devices and servers couldn't All your devices have a local IP address. When they connect to the internet, your router Every website you visit can see this public What's more, online spies can look up online Your IP, location, and online activity are spying on you and trying to make a detailed When you use a VPN, you first connect to a browsing from another place with a different Your online activity cannot be traced back How does a VPN work? When you connect to a VPN, it creates an encrypted you and the VPN server. To secure each data packet, a VPN wraps it through encapsulation. Your data stays safe during transfer. When it arrives at the server, the outer packet A VPN protocol is the key to VPN technology. It's a set of encryption standards used devices. VPN providers commonly support a couple of OpenVPN, the most popular of them, is used It is highly configurable and offers a nice can use it on both TCP and UDP ports. Internet Key Exchange version two... IKEv2 ...is a tunneling protocol usually paired It adapts well to network changes, making often switch between Wi-Fi and mobile connection. NordVPN has also implemented a next-generation That's NordLynx, built around WireGuard NordLynx made just of four thousand lines of code. Less code means less space for errors. It's easy to deploy, audit, and debug. NordLynx provides higher speed and security How to set up NordVPN? It's easier than you think. Once you download NordVPN and get the subscription, Open the app, be it on PC, Mac, or smartphone. Log in. Use the same credentials you used to sign Click to connect. You can choose the Quick Connect button, which Or pick a location from the map. NordVPN adheres to a strict no-logs policy. Your online activity is your business. NordVPN -- online security starts with a