- I have rescued nine dogs in my life. (audience cheering) Thank you. I've returned four. (audience laughing) Because I have a type. (audience laughing) And I'm impulsive and I And like any other animal when you have a type, And my type is slow and overweight. That is what I'm looking for in an animal. (audience laughing) I'm not looking to go on or go for hikes, or even play fetch, I wanna come home at the end of a long day and snuggle. I wanna get into bed with And have him on top of and his big meaty neck while I wrap my arms around him. And then when it gets too hot, I can say, &quot;Get the fuck off of me.&quot; (audience laughing) - So now I have a new dog, Mary. I rescued her, or I like to think she rescued me. I don't know which is the less (audience laughing) I have her. - And I love old dogs. Old dogs are my jam, okay? It's so true, right? I don't want that dog and starts running in I want the dog that hears &quot;You going to get it?&quot; (audience laughing) - At one point I was like, I gotta take care of something.&quot; My husband said, &quot;What I said, &quot;A big one.&quot; So he came home with a Lab Mastiff. (audience laughing) Do you know what a Mastiff was? I didn't know. I should've Google image. We have a pony, I have a pony. (audience laughing) I said, if she's 140 pounds, Listen, (audience laughing) I have a shovel for her shit. I wear overalls. I look like a Puerto Rican Kathy Bates. Listen, (audience laughing) I see so much before shit I'm a good person. She's big and black and beautiful. She won't stop growing. I call her precious. (audience laughing) - Only a dog will give you 100% of itself. That's why they get so sad when they know you're about to leave, and why they get so You are literally everything they've been And now you're back. (audience laughing) I know for a fact, nothing on this planet I said this last night and someone said, &quot;What about your son?&quot; - I said, &quot;Nothing loves me more.&quot; I could leave my dressing room When I come back, the It is the greatest moment Oh yeah, yeah. My dog, Vinnie, will jump off the couch and run towards me top speed. And then when he gets to and he makes a sound like You can almost hear, where were you, where (audience laughing) And he pees everywhere. (audience laughing) I used to get upset that he would do that. But then I thought about it. My dog loves me so much, he cannot control his That's why when I would go home, I would immediately pick And then my girlfriend would get mad. &quot;How come you don't come to me first?&quot; I said, &quot;Because the dog loves me more.&quot; (audience laughing) &quot;How do you know I don't love you more?&quot; I said, &quot;I don't see a puddle.&quot; (audience laughing) - I can't wait till we have That'll be cool. Because it'll only be a matter of time before people will figure out that they can just get (audience laughing) &quot;Honey, where are the dogs?&quot; &quot;I got them a car. They're just driving around for an hour.&quot; (audience laughing) Can you imagine being at a red light and a car full of dogs (audience laughing) Incredible. I mean, the dogs are having a great time. The driver dog's, like, (audience laughing) And if you get into an I mean, how mad are you gonna be? (audience laughing) You get outta the car, &quot;Son of a bitch. Hello. (audience laughing) Where's your insurance?&quot; Go get your insurance. Good boy.&quot; (audience laughing) - You know what else I don't Shitting dogs. (audience laughing) So many shitting dogs. And they wait for me. I'm telling you, they wait for me. They do. They see me come around the corner, and they hunch over. (audience laughing) And you just know the sphincter (audience laughing) And they stare into my soul. And they shit as the (audience laughing) - And you can't get away from it. I'm telling you, I've tried. You try not to make eye I don't run. I walk away at a reasonable pace, and they come after me. They're like, where are you going? I can take this on the road. Where are you going? (audience laughing) Fuck. - I love this dog so much. She takes a shit. I put my hand in a bag. (audience laughing) And I pick up her warm shit. I love my girlfriend, but I'm not putting a bag on my hand and picking up my girlfriend's shit. I don't love her like I love that dog. (audience laughing) It gets worse, people. It gets worse. (audience laughing) So recently, I was on Facebook and I wanted to post a in her birthday hat. (audience laughing) Yeah, I fucking said that. I put my dog in a birthday hat. And I went on the page of the to post a picture of so that her siblings around the country, (audience laughing) I can't believe I'm saying (audience laughing continues) So that her siblings around the country could celebrate their birthdays together. And then I saw this other cute and he looked just like Kemi. And I was like, he's related. Now, a year ago, I couldn't between a fuckin' horse and a chihuahua. (audience laughing) But now, I saw another and I looked at that dog and I knew immediately that And I messaged the woman, I said, &quot;This dog, is he related to my dog?&quot; And she was like, &quot;Yes, they have the same father.&quot; (audience laughing) And I was like, &quot;Is he available?&quot; (audience laughing) - I shouldn't even say, &quot;I rescued you.&quot; People love patting We rescued it, we saved it, we adopted it. No, you didn't. Here's what happened to your dog, my dog, every dog ever. The dog was born into a litter, kidnapped, given to you. (audience laughing) &quot;No, Neal, you don't understand. I'm a dog mom.&quot; Really? You know who else was a dog mom? That dog's mom. (audience laughing) But we think because we talk to the dogs like they're our babies, they're not, they're our captives, right? But we think because we go You a pretty girl? Pitch your voice down, you'll see what a monster you are. Like, are you a pretty girl? (audience laughing) We can go outside, but I can (audience laughing) Do a trick for me, I'll give you a tiny morsel of food. (audience laughing) You're my best friend. (audience laughing continues) We try to make movies about it, romanticize this relationships You know what a dog sees when He sees the movie, Taken, but Liam Neeson never shows up. (audience laughing) - We have a four-year-old French bulldog. Her name is Petunia. (audience cheering) The idea of people applauding I mean, I would never tell It would go right to her ego. That little monster who just while staring at me in the eyes just (imitates dog growling). I know her vulva itches But the thumping of the back paws, it's upsetting. (audience laughing) I'm just kidding. I love Petunia very much. She's one of my most favorite people I've ever met in my life. Petunia likes to be very social, but she can't walk very far so she can't breathe by design. But she wants to go out and meet people but we can't walk her for that long. And anyway, this is a long-winded way of saying that we bought (audience laughing) My wife and I walk around New York City pushing Petunia the French And it's a big stroller, And people lean in to see the baby. (audience laughing) And instead they see a gargoyle breathing like Chris Christie. (John imitates Petunia breathing) - If you don't know what a pug is, they advertise it as a dog. (audience laughing) It is not. It has a fat, round, four spindly legs that look like it couldn't Dogs have paws. Pugs have long lady fingers (audience laughing) Some have four, some have three, some two like a chicken foot. (audience laughing) And the face of an (audience laughing) Eyes that looked like it belongs on a different animal all together. It looks like God was making it ran out of pug eyes and said, &quot;Let's give it cow eye. See how that goes.&quot; (audience laughing) It doesn't go. This poor guy's got hanging out of his skull. The lids can't even get He hasn't had his eyes shut He just struggles and (Tom imitates dog snoring) Is he asleep right now? We're on a walk. (audience laughing) - There is one reason and one reason alone why And that's because cats would (audience laughing) Not a single one of them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Okay? And it's not because the cats Cats could end the drug trade But they said work with the No. Dog owners are obsessed with &quot;Oh, my dog follows me And it's like, sounds like the NSA, honey. Like what are they listening for? It's like, &quot;Oh, my dog for me to finish and then I come out.&quot; And it's like your dog thinks and wants to send you down the river. Every dog was born with a wire. Defund puppies. (audience laughing) No, I couldn't even finish it, you guys. I couldn't even finish saying it. No. Dog owners do get upset with me when I talk about this on stage. Though sometimes I had a after a show once and she was like, &quot;Don't do that. Don't project human morality The dogs don't understand And it's like, actually, I think that dogs are sort to understand human morality because have you ever seen a dog that's too ashamed to Every time I see that, I'm like, oh, so you do to live in a society? (audience laughing) Sometimes, you know? If you do, then get a job, and they're like, take Every single time. It's crazy. - If we're the only one You know? Like a dog has no problem being a dog. A dog's never been running for a Frisbee and jumped forward in &quot;What's the point? (audience laughing) I'm just gonna catch it and We're stuck in this perpetual...&quot; That never happens with a dog. No dog is overthinking. You know what I mean? No dog is laying there getting &quot;Yeah, you rubbing my belly right now, but you're rubbing that I smell her on you and we will discuss it. After the belly rub, there's Do you understand me?&quot; (audience laughing) No dog is just sitting at home, alone while you're there am I a good boy? That never happens. - I'm a dog mother. So that's beautiful. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. She's gorge. She's gorge. She's about eight years old. I've had her for two years. So yes, she's a rescue. You're welcome. (audience clapping) Yeah, it's important to say that. I don't know about y'all, but I follow a lot of animal And you know people will post and they'll be like, #WhoRescuedWho It's like, I rescued her ass. (audience laughing) I saw her and I said, &quot;Come with me if you want to live.&quot; (audience laughing) That's the dynamic. That's the dynamic. Get your nose out your ass, let's go. And she's so cute, y'all. She's like this little Maltese She's gorgeous. She's gorgeous. And here's the thing, I realized. I realized like a week I can't have a dog that's too fine. 'cause when you got a fine-ass dog, people want to engage with Okay? I'm a curmudgeon. And she is gorgeous and You know, we walking and people are like, &quot;Is she friendly?&quot; And I'm like, &quot;No, I'm not!&quot; And I walk away. (audience laughing) - So we're dog moms right now. That's what we're doing. And we'll see what happens. But we have this little So cute. He's a little guy, 8 pounds, and a very happy, healthy guy, but he came down with Now it's this thing that dogs can get where they go from being to being super, super sick. And it can be deadly. It comes on fast like 48 hours. And vets don't know how dogs get this. They say it could be it could be from stress. I was like the Humane Society found Biggie eating out of a dumpster, and now he is walking around Beverly Hills in my wife's Gucci purse. He ain't got no stress. (audience laughing) His food is more expensive than mine. He ain't got no stress. So we have no idea where this But the signs of it start to show up at the beginning of our flight five and a half hours, and every hour he got significantly worse. We couldn't do anything. We landed, it took us an hour we went straight to an animal hospital. Jax took him in the examination room and I was filling out tons of paperwork. It's so different than I mean, back in the day, your dog slept inside, outside, your neighbor's house. It'd roll up after two &quot;Sparky, where have you been?&quot; (audience laughing) Your dog ate whatever leftovers your grandma threw over And if suddenly your dog required your parents were &quot;It's been fun, Sparky.&quot; (audience laughing) (smooth music)