When I look up at the sky at night, I see 100 billion stars They look like lights in cabins The Milky Way, sailing through space. And I wonder if there are other There are 100 billion of them, comparable to the number of people It would be arrogant to think otherwise, that we are alone, that we are unique and special, especially if you read the news every day. We are not the pinnacle of creation. There is room for improvement. (Laughter) I'm just a curious farm boy, and I wonder about the world around me. And I hate to behave because they often pretend to know And that bothered me And so I decided to become a scientist and answer the questions not based on prejudice, not based on the politics of getting the largest number I don't have a footprint on social media. I enjoy nature. Whatever it brings So let's just look around. And for 70 years, we've been searching for radio signals. This is equivalent to staying at home and waiting for a phone call because nobody cares that we are lonely. It may also be that others and they live in a virtual reality, as we are at this point in time. A much better approach is to check if there is any that may have arrived Like a tennis ball, that may tell us And we haven't really checked The first object to have been that came from outside It was discovered When it passed close to Earth, What you see behind me It looked really weird because as it was tumbling the amount of sunlight reflected from it which meant that it has most likely flat, like a pancake. And moreover, it exhibited a push away from the sun by some mysterious force because there was no evaporation, no cometary tail around it, So the question was, what is pushing it? And I suggested that maybe but for that, the object had to be And that meant that it was Maybe it's a surface layer, like a plastic bag tumbling in the wind. And so we go back 70 years to a question asked at Los Alamos, &quot;Where is everybody?&quot; Well, this is a question But if you stay at home -- (Laughter) You will not find anyone. You have to go to dating sites. At the very least, you need to look And he didn't seek the evidence. He was just asking the question And if we don't look for evidence, It's a self-fulfilling prophecy. It's a way to maintain our ignorance. And science is better than politics. We can find the evidence This is a real image, it's the Tesla Roadster car that was put as a dummy payload It's now moving in an elliptical and perhaps in 20 million years, And if it will do so unexpectedly, some of my colleagues would argue &quot;This is a rock of a type (Laughter) We cannot see it with our best telescopes It doesn't reflect enough sunlight. 'Oumuamua was the size of a And so the next Copernican revolution would be that we are not of the universe. Not only that we are not at the physical but actually, you know, we arrive We are not at the center of stage. The play is not about us. We should be modest. We keep thinking And we better find other actors And people often say extraordinary claims but they are not seeking the evidence. Actually, extraordinary evidence (Laughter) (Applause) Elon Musk argued recently, &quot;I don't see any aliens.&quot; But new scientific knowledge We had to invest 10 billion dollars in the Large Hadron Collider We had to invest 10 billion dollars in order to find the first This is the way science is done. You need to put the effort And only over the past decade, we discovered objects that came The first one was actually a decade ago. It was a meteor, an object that collided with Earth and burned up in the atmosphere. It was spotted The fireball that it generated released a few percent and it was moving too fast And so we concluded it's interstellar. It came from outside the solar system. Could it be a Voyager-like meteor? Imagine our own spacecraft In the future, it would appear as a meteor and unusual speed, which are exactly the properties And then 'Oumuamua was discovered in 2017, and finally a comet appeared, also from interstellar space, And so my colleagues argued, &quot;Well, this one looks familiar. Doesn't it convince you that the others Rocks of a type And I say, if I go down the street and after that I see a normal person, it doesn't make the weird person normal. (Laughter) Now the US -- (Laughter) Director of National intelligence -- (Applause) Avril Haines delivered three reports to the US Congress, talking The good news is the sky We don't need to wait what lies outside the solar system. Their day job is national security. My day job is figuring out And the sky is not classified. We can answer the question ourselves. So I'm leading the Galileo project. We built an observatory that monitors the sky 24/7, looking for objects that are not familiar, not birds, balloons, So far, we monitored Haven't found anything unusual yet, but we keep looking and we are using machine-learning what we are looking at. But the most exciting endeavor is an expedition to the Pacific Ocean to look for the materials from this meteor And the US Space Command confirming at the 99.999 percent that this object indeed originated Based on its high speed, it was moving in the vicinity of the Sun. It exploded in the lower atmosphere, about 90 kilometers away and that meant that the object tougher than even iron meteorites. And so I led an expedition in June 2023. You can see the team on the ship and we used the sled to search for droplets left over And at the bottom left you see They are preparing a documentary and the director asked me, &quot;Avi, it looks like you are running,&quot; as I often do on land for a few miles. And he said, &quot;Are you running away And I said, &quot;Both. I'm running away who have strong opinions and I'm running towards a higher Now we used this sled and collected from the ocean floor about a mile deep. And then I brought them to my colleagues They look like metallic spheres, very distinct from the background of sand And my colleague at Harvard, is a world-renowned geochemist. He used the electron microprobe, The person on the other side is a summer intern, Sophie Bergstrom, who found most of our molten droplets. And so I called her the spheral hunter. And most of our spherules were actually but about 10 percent of them and they had a chemical composition very different They had abundances of elements that are up to a factor of 1,000 more than found in solar system materials. They were not from the Earth, not from asteroids. And so now the question arises, was this a rock from another star? And of course, one possibility is that there was a natural For example, most stars are dwarf stars, and they are 100 times And so if you bring a planet they spaghettify the planet, make a stream of rocks that could be ejected at a speed But it's also possible that this object in which case, if we look for bigger pieces we might find a gadget with buttons on it. And I asked students in my class, &quot;If we find such a gadget, (Laughter) Now, some of my critics So we looked at 55 elements and found that the abundances of elements So it's not coal ash. Others argued, &quot;Maybe it was not a meteor, Well, the data came We actually based our search region on the Department of Defense coordinates, and we went 26 times back and forth, So the next expedition, will search for bigger maybe even the core of the object, because that could have We all know the biblical who looked at the bush that was burning without being consumed, with religious awe, that there is a superhuman entity, God, out there. Now, Friedrich Nietzsche in 1882 argued, &quot;God is dead.&quot; And that gave rise to the modern period of science and technology, where humans have this hubris, they lack modesty. Nobody is smarter than us, we are at the top of the food chain. Maybe AI will do a little better. But AI is just a digital mirror. It reflects our faults. It's nothing better than us. It's not a digital species. It's just us. (Applause) And if we find a partner that will give a new meaning And it's a whole different ball game. Something from another star And we better be ready for that. Not look at the mirror as science fiction stories do. Now the good news is, next year, the Rubin Observatory in Chile will survey the southern sky with a camera that is 3.2 billion pixels, a thousand times more And so if we find it might give us a sense of modesty. We might bring back this sense Except in this time, it will be based on something that was delivered And that is quite promising, actually, Instead of spending four trillion dollars killing each other the tiny rock, left over we might realize that there is and that kid may provide a better (Applause) And if we allocate four trillion dollars we could send a CubeSat towards hundreds of billions of them, And it gets better than that, because if we find a superhuman We might learn new physics. The first question I would ask is, And they might have that are capable of creating And this job of creating a new And that would help us actually, (Laughter) given that there is a lot in the world that we inhabit. Thank you. Chris Anderson: Thank you, Avi. (Applause) I'm here like a visitor because we're out of time. But also just to ask you If you had to put money on it, what do you think -- is it likely that we will that persuades a critical mass that there is someone out there. And I just want a yes or no. Avi Loeb: Yes. CA: Yes! Avi Loeb! (Applause)