(ambient music) - Good evening, everyone. I'm Joel Moore, the interim chair of the and it is my great pleasure to the annual J Robert Since 1998, Berkeley Physics to bring truly world-renowned theoretical to speak in honor of J Robert This lecture series occurs every spring, and it highlights trends, discoveries and groundbreaking research in theoretical physics, and it was made possible Jane and Robert Wilson. Before introducing tonight's lecturer, I would like to say a little bit about the Berkeley Physics say a little bit more about Oppenheimer and his legacy in the present time. To start with, Oppenheimer and created the first school in the US at Berkeley. He came to Berkeley one year after Ernest Lawrence, who was maybe the largest figure in Berkeley's experimental and between them, they turned Berkeley into one of the best departments Oppenheimer's achievements in physics, I would normally tell you a lot about. These include the for molecular weight functions and work on the theory of the Oppenheimer-Phillips process infusion, and various other things. I would like to focus tonight on another aspect of what he did after he was at Berkeley. You may have heard that he of the Manhattan Project, the project to create the atomic bomb. And in that capacity, he was an incredible scientific manager. And normally, management is to talk about. The particular point I would make is that Oppenheimer put together an unbelievable collection of talent. And this is not so much a scientific thing to me as it is being able to recognize very smart people and get them together and I think is Oppenheimer's And one point I would like some of it was born in the US, like Richard Feynman, for example, but a great deal of it was not. Much of it was immigrant, and, of that part, much And I think a great deal in post-war physics came came from that Manhattan And that's why if you try about politics, you'll get Even with Oppenheimer, you was Oppenheimer sufficiently Was the atomic bomb a Physicists are very You will very rarely hear a physicist say, in fact, never in my experience, that American physicists from international collaboration and from people coming and I think that's So, Oppenheimer's progress as the father, the founding father of the American School was to ask, what a talk was about, or what a piece of physics was about, what was learned by it, and what were the remaining and we continue to ask and that's the theme of tonight's lecture. So, as I mentioned, the since 1998, and it's become in our physics department, and there are new things will last at least as well and become new traditions, and I wanted to call your One is, tonight is a night for theory, but we have created a at the undergraduate level, Physics 5, with a beautiful new laboratory that I think is going to make Berkeley, if it isn't already, experimental physics as an We have a new center for which is actually very connected to the kind of work that It's very much in the same theme, that certain fundamental ideas a vast number of different So that's one of our main priorities in research at the moment. And then lastly, in order to link physics with the outside world in the same way that Oppenheimer did, we have a new industrial called Berkeley Physics Partners, or BP2, and I would be happy to talk with you about but I think, with that, let me move on to a little bit more about science and the Oppenheimer Lecture, and our distinguished guest So, Oppenheimer lecturers, six Nobel laureates and distinguished figures from all areas of theoretical physics, ranging from astrophysics, to cosmology, to atomic and molecular physics. Tonight, we have an in that Professor Preskill's lecture on quantum computing and will take us on a journey and the various aspects of So, Professor Preskill comes to us from the California better known as Caltech. He is the Richard P Feynman professor of theoretical physics there, and he's also director of The Institute for Quantum Information and that institute, which has existed for quite some time now, I believe it started in 2000, was one of the first to of quantum information are very powerful in linking the work of physicists Getting back to Professor Preskill, he received his PhD in and moved rather quickly He is a member of the National Academy. He is a two-time recipient of the Associated Students He's mentored more than 50 PhD students and more than 45 postdoctoral and many of those, a few of those are here, I believe, and many of those have in their research areas. So if I had to pick a few the theme of his research, he's especially intrigued deepening understanding and quantum computing can be applied to other such as the quantum Aside from his research papers, his celebrated lecture notes on quantum computation, which, by this time, includes that I wouldn't necessarily they've exerted a profound influence on the development of the subject. And I would say that Caltech has become one of the leading centers on quantum information Our own center for quantum a different emphasis in some ways, it's based on what Berkeley leads in, but it's fair to say that one of our intellectual progenitors in setting up this new center was what's been done at Caltech. So, Preskill has been described as less weird than a quantum I agree with the second part, and the first, I'll reserve but we are thrilled to to his very long list of accolades. Please join me in welcoming (applause) - Thank you very much, Joel, for the beautiful introduction. And I'm deeply honored to be here to carry on the tradition of the Oppenheimer Lecture and to join the roster of great scientists who I'm going to be talking about quantum physics, but also about information. Everybody knows that a huge impact on our everyday lives, but we also recognize that that seems impressive to us in the future by new technology that we can't really It's interesting just the same to speculate about future technologies, and I may not be the in that type of speculation. I'm not an engineer, I'm and I can't really claim to how computers really I do know that the crowning of the 20th century was the and it's natural for a the development of quantum theory in the 20th century will impact 21st-century technology. Quantum theory is, of course, but some of the deep ways are different from classical systems we've only come to appreciate And a lot of those differences have to do with the properties of information encoded in physical systems. To a physicist, information and store in the state like, for example, the pages of a book, but fundamentally, all physical systems are really quantum systems governed by quantum mechanics, and so information is something in a quantum state. And physicists have that information carried has some notoriously That's why we like to of quantum theory, and we relish that weirdness and find great enjoyment in it. But we're also starting in recent years whether it's possible to put the weirdness to work to exploit the unusual to perform tasks that wouldn't be possible if this were a less weird classical world. And that desire to put emergence of a field we call which derives much of from three central ideas, which are quantum entanglement, and quantum error correction, and my goal in the talk is to introduce you to these ideas. I'd like to start at the beginning. We all know that any amount of can be expressed in terms bits of information, and we might think of a like a ball, which can be Now if I want to, I can store a bit inside a box, and then later on, if I I can open the box, and comes out again, so I can And when I speak of quantum information carried in a quantum system, and it, too, can be expressed in terms of indivisible units, or qubits for short. And for many purposes, to envision a qubit as an Where we're now, we have the through two complementary doors, which correspond to two different ways in which we can prepare or observe the state of the qubit. And you can put information or door number two, and if, later on, you open that same door again, in comes out again, just as though the But if I put information into a qubit through door number one, for example, and then later on, I observe the qubit through door number two, observe it in the complementary way, then no one can predict what we'll find. There's a 50% probability and 50% that it's green. So if you want to read you have to do it the right way. If you do it the wrong way, then you will unavoidably And one consequence of if we think about copying a quantum state. If I had a quantum copy machine, that would mean that if I happen to have put information through door I can make a copy of the qubit, and then if I open the through door number one, then the color ball that I put in would come out of both boxes. And likewise, if I happen in door number two of the original Qubit, once I build a copy, I on the original and the duplicate, and the color that I put in But, in fact, no such quantum It's not allowed by the laws of physics. We can't make high-fidelity copies of unknown quantum states. And the reason why not is that in order to make the to probe inside the box, and if it guesses right and then it will be able just as though it were classical, but if it guesses wrong that will damage the information and there won't be any way to build a high-fidelity copy. So although we might be we can't clone a qubit. Now I've described qubits which I think is a useful but a qubit always has and I'll give a few other examples later, but just so you'll have something concrete to think about. We could consider, for example, the qubit to be a polarization state of a single particle of light, a photon. A photon has an electric either horizontally or vertically, that corresponds to looking through door number one of the box, and if the polarization is tilted to the 45-degree rotated axes, that corresponds to door number two. So, for example, we could make a horizontally polarized and observe it through the tilted axes, and what we would generate But the really interesting ways is different from classical information we can only appreciate of more than one qubit. So let's imagine we have two qubits, and they could be far One at Caltech in Pasadena, the other in the custody of my friend in the Andromeda Galaxy. And some time ago, these two and they interacted in a a correlated state of the two qubits which has some unusual properties. Namely, I can open my box in Pasadena through either door number and either way, what I with the 50% probability of and the same thing is true He can open the box through or door number two and just finds a random bit. So neither one of us finds any information in the boxes by opening a box in Pasadena or Andromeda, which seems kind of funny, because with two boxes, to store two bits of information. But where has that The answer in this case is that all the information is actually encoded in the correlations between what happens when and when you open it in Andromeda. Because it turns out, for this of the two qubits, if I open door number red or green, but if also opens door number one for he's guaranteed to find And the same thing is true if As long as we open the same door, we're guaranteed to find the same color. And there are four perfectly in which a box in Pasadena with a box from Andromeda. We could see that the same when we both open door number one or both open door number two, and by choosing one of those four ways, we've encoded two bits of information in our pair of qubits. But what's unusual in this is completely inaccessible locally, it's a property stored non-locally, shared by the two And this property, that non-locally between is what we call quantum entanglement, and it's the really important way in which quantum information is different from classical information. Correlations themselves We encounter them all My socks are normally the same color. So if you look at my left then you know, without looking, what color you expect when And it's kind of like that If I want to know what my he opens door number one in Andromeda, I can open door number one And if I want to know what door number two in Andromeda, then I can open door number So it might seem to you that that the boxes are just like the soxes, but I claim that, in fact, The boxes are not like the soxes, and the essence of the difference is there's just one way to look at a sock, but because we have these of observing the qubit, the correlations among qubits are richer and more interesting than the correlations among ordinary bits. This phenomenon of quantum It was first explicitly discussed in a paper by Einstein, And to Einstein, entanglement as to indicate that something is missing from our current understanding of the quantum description of nature. And that paper elicited including a particularly The way Schrodinger put it was, &quot;The best possible knowledge of a whole &quot;does not necessarily indicate &quot;of its parts.&quot; What Schrodinger meant was complete description that the of a pair of qubits, we're still powerless to when we open door number of one of those two qubits. And it was Schrodinger who suggested using the word entanglement to describe these unusual correlations. He also said, &quot;It is rather discomforting &quot;that the theory should &quot;or piloted into one or &quot;at the experimenter's mercy &quot;in spite of his having no access to it.&quot; And what Schrodinger that it's up to me to decide, by either opening door in Pasadena, whether will find when he opens door in Andromeda. But Schrodinger understood though different from don't allow us to send from Pasadena to Andromeda. When my friend in Andromeda opens his box, he just finds a random bit, and the probability distribution governing what he finds is not affected by what I So no message is sent from Now this theory of quantum didn't advance very much until the work of John Bell in the 1960s. And beginning with Bell, about entanglement in not just as something weird, but as something potentially useful; a resource that we can that wouldn't otherwise be possible. We don't have to go into the details, but what Bell described can be thought of as a Alice and Bob, it's a cooperative game. Alice and Bob are on the same side. They're trying to help each other win. And the way the game works is that Alice and Bob receive inputs, and their task is to correlated in a way that that they both receive. But under the rules of the game, Alice and Bob are not with one another between and when they produce their outputs. And for this particular if Alice and Bob played they'll be able to win the game with a success probability of 75% if we average uniformly over the inputs that they could receive. But there's also a quantum where the rules are exactly the same, except that, now, Alice to use entangled pairs of qubits which have been distributed And with those short better quantum strategy, which allows them to win the game with a higher success probability, about 85% rather than 75%. So they can use entanglement as a resource to perform a task winning the game better than they could using just classical correlations that they share. And experimental physicists for decades now, and probability of success, the laws of quantum mechanics will allow. So it seems that the really are part of nature's design. Einstein didn't like quantum entanglement. He called it spooky action at a distance. This sounds even more derisive But it doesn't even matter Nature is the way and we should all learn So, boxes are not like soxes. Quantum correlations are You can use them to win a game with an 85% success probability instead Is that a really big deal? Yeah, it's really a big deal. And we can appreciate if we think about more complex We can think about quantum Imagine a book that's 100 pages long. If this were an ordinary you could read the pages one at a time, and every time you read another page, you'll know another 1% of and after you've read all 100 pages, you know everything that's in the book. But suppose it's a quantum and suppose the pages are highly then when you look at all you see is random gibberish, revealing almost no one highly entangled book from another. And that's because the is not written in the individual pages. It's stored almost entirely among the pages. That's quantum entanglement. And these correlations can be very complex and are hard to describe So, for a modest number of if I wanted to give a in classical language, among 300 qubits, I more bits than the number of So it'll never be possible, to write down that complete description of all the correlations. And that property of quantum information is very intriguing to the They'd let him make the that if we could build on qubits instead of we'd be able to perform tasks that are beyond the reach of any Feynman's idea was that in terms of ordinary bits, the information content then by processing the to perform tasks that a digital computer would never be able to emulate. And at the time Feynman in the early 1980s, there was studying mathematics. Like all of our undergraduates, as part of our core curriculum. And like most of our undergraduates, he retained what he learned and later put it to good use when he made a remarkable discovery. Shor thought about the problem of a composite integer. This is a problem which we think is hard for classical computers, though there's no And what Shor found is that if we had a quantum computer, the factoring problem would be easy. It wouldn't be much two numbers together And when I heard about this in 1994 when Shor made the discovery, I was really awestruck, because what it means between hard and easy problems, the difference between problems that we'll be able to solve some and the problems that we'll because they're just too hard, that that boundary between hard and easy is different than it otherwise would be because this is a quantum And I thought that was one I had heard in my scientific life, and thinking about it eventually led me to change the direction of my own research from elementary particle Now does anybody care whether Yeah, in fact, a lot of people care, because the security of the to protect our privacy when we are based on the presumed hardness of factoring and other similar And in a few decades, when we won't be able to protect our privacy using these protocols. We'll have to do something else. Alternatives exist, but it's still not exactly clear what will be the best in the coming post-quantum world. The important thing that we is that there is an interesting classification of problems, that there are problems and quantumly easy. Can't be solved by could be solved if we and it becomes a compelling to understand better what are the problems which are of such intermediate difficulty. And we've learned a lot of things about but I think the most from a physicist's point of is that we think that we but with a quantum computer, we'd be able to simulate efficiently any which isn't the case with digital computers, which are unable to simulate highly entangled systems. And that means with a quantum computer, we'd be able to explore For example, by simulating we'd be able to compute the study exotic quantum materials, and study fundamental processes, like the formation and or the properties of the universe So a lot of people work for quantum computers large-scale quantum computers yet. One of them is my friend, Eddie Farhi, who, like me, is a lapsed and when he wrote one of his it inspired me to send him a poem, which read, in part, &quot;We're &quot;Your algorithm's quantum. &quot;Can't run it on those mean machines &quot;until we've actually got 'em.&quot; And the poem goes on, but the point is that we have a lot of interesting ideas about what to do with quantum computers, but we don't have quantum computers yet that can run those applications. So why not? What is it that's taking so long? Well, it's really hard to And one of the difficulties is the phenomenon we call decoherence. Physicists like to imagine which is simultaneously dead and alive. And we never observe, that type of superposition of macroscopically distinguishable And we understand the reason why not. It's because no real cat from its surroundings. And the interactions with immediately measure the cat, projecting it onto a state, which is either completely That's the phenomenon of decoherence, and decoherence helps us to understand why even though quantum physics holds sway at the microscopic scale, still, classical physics is quite adequate for describing most of the processes of our everyday experience. A quantum computer won't be but it, too, will be hard to perfectly isolate And interactions with the quantum information to be damaged, and that will cause the So if we're going to operate a we have to figure out how to protect it from the damaging effects of decoherence and other sources of error. Errors can be a problem, even in the classical world, we all but everywhere there take pleasure in damaging our We learn, in the classical world, some ways to protect our information. The important concept is encode the information so that we can still recover the information. So if I want to store a bit, I can store backup copies of the bit, and then a dragon might and change the color of one of the balls, but I can also ask a busy beaver to frequently check the balls, and whenever she sees that from the other two, she repaints it so all three match again. So unless the dragon has had a chance to damage two out of the three balls, the information is well protected because of the redundant storage. Now we'd like to use the same idea that redundancy provides But at first, there seem as already discussed, we can't So I can't, for example, of the state of a quantum computer in the middle of a computation in case my original gets damaged. And furthermore, with there are more things that can go wrong with the information. It might be that a dragon opens and flips the color of the That would be like a bit flip that occurs for classical information. But instead, the dragon and change the color of the That's what we call a and it really has no classical analog. We need to be able to protect and the phase errors to make sure our quantum There's another way of thinking which is we might imagine that the dragon opens door number one, and instead of flipping the color of the ball, just observes the color and remembers it. It never had the effect as observed through door number two. And in many physical settings, it's easier for the environment to than to flip the qubit, and that makes phase errors in some physical settings. So the key thing is that if you look at quantum and so if we want to we have to keep it almost perfectly isolated So there's no leakage of information about the state of our quantum computer to the outside world. And that sounds impossible will never be perfect. So how can we perfectly isolate a quantum computer from the outside? But we learned, in principle, how to do it through the concept we call and the essential trick to protect the information. So if I have one qubit I can encode that one qubit of information in an entangled state of five qubits, which is chosen in such a way and observes or performs any action on one of the five boxes, that dragon doesn't about what the encoded state is. Because the information doesn't reside in that individual box, it's a collective property It's just like that 100-page book. When you look at one of the information is completely hidden. And so it's possible after the dragon has to make some collective observations of the five qubits and restore the right kind of the entanglement. And, in the process, the either about the protected encoded state, and so that state can be undamaged. So the basic idea of quantum we can use redundancy to but we have to do it the right way, and the right way to do it in the form of entanglement So just like that 100-page book, which reveals no information when the environment will interact locally with the parts of the and, in doing so, won't be able to detect the encoded information or damage it. And we've also learned how to process information which is encoded and so operate a robust quantum computer, at least in principle. So, although we may never see a real cat in a superposition of we should be able to prepare and maintain it in that for as long as we please. Well, we understood these principles of quantum error correction We were very excited. And so my then-student, Daniel Gottesman, wrote a sonnet. And I'll just read the beginning of it. &quot;We cannot clone, &quot;coherence to protect it from that wrong &quot;that would destroy our valued quantum bit &quot;and make our computation take too long.&quot; And so on. The point is we were excited, because we had understood that, at least in principle, we could make a quantum computer resistant to the effects of noise and decoherence. Now another hero of this story is my Caltech colleague, Alexei Kitaev. The day when we met, which was one of the most exciting When I heard his seminar I thought that I was hearing, from Kitaev, ideas about quantum error correction which are potentially transformative. And what I learned from him quantum error correction and topology. Topology means the properties which remain invariant when without ripping or tearing it. And when we think of operating what we want is for the that's being processed to remain invariant even as we deform the computer So we would like to use interactions which take advantage of for the purpose of information processing. And physicists now have such For example, the Aharonov-Bohm effect. I can imagine transporting like an electron, around And then the quantum state in a way that depends which is enclosed in the never directly visits the region where the magnetic field is non-zero. And that change, that interaction If we deform the trajectory of the electron, the effect of circling the the only thing that matters the winding number of the electron around the flux tube. Now if we can engineer for example, in a layer separating two slabs of semiconductor, then there's a very rich family of possible topological In these systems, if properly designed, we can have what we call anyons. And anyons have the interesting property that if I have a system of that the quantum information can be very complex, but when we visit the that information is completely invisible. Because it's not a property but a collective property And that's just the type that we want to protect against noise. That information will be well hidden from the influence of the environment. And furthermore, we can by performing exchanges of the particles in which they swap places. So we can imagine operating a topological quantum computer, which we would initialize by preparing pairs of anyons, then processing the successively exchanging pairs of particles so that their world lines in trace out the braid, and then we could read out a final result say by bringing the and observing whether the and disappear or not. So what's beautiful about this idea is that, in principle, we can do any computation we want this way, and the computation is to decoherence if we keep so we have no unwanted and if we keep the particles except at the very so there's no unwanted exchange of charges between the particles, then as long as the world then we'll do the right the right answer. So I really like this idea, which led me to write a poem about it. And I won't read you the whole thing, but part of it reads this way. Alexei exhibits a knack we'll crunch quantum data by braiding, with quantum states hidden protected from damage through topology. Anyon, anyon, where do you roam? Braid for a while before you go home. And there's more to it than that, but the point is, it's a really beautiful, exciting idea. But it's a theorist's dream, and it's something that in hardware that can be built. Well, here, too, Kitaev which is to use the principle that, under the right circumstances, we can divide an electron in half. That sounds ridiculous a fundamental elementary but in a highly entangled environment, in the right kind of electrons can split into pieces, and anyons can arise that way. Here's one relatively simple setting in which that can happen, actually. In a one-dimensional wire, it's possible for the wire That means it conducts electricity without any resistance. And there are two types of superconductor: what we might call the conventional type, and a more exotic type, called the topological superconductor. And at the boundary between the two types, there resides an object that we call a Majorana fermion. And now it's possible to this finite segment of and that electron will, in effect, dissolve and disappear. So we can't tell whether But in the process, the state at the two end points of the But that change in the state is not locally visible; we can't see it if we visit the endpoints of the It's a collective property of the two. So that's the type of non-local that we want to protect against And this type of Majorana fermion in a superconducting wire, well, we have some very realized experimentally, more to make that case completely ironclad. Of course, we'd like to be store information reliably, we'd like to be able to process it. And using quantum wires, one way to do that would be so that if I had two Majorana fermions, I would be able to change their positions, let's say with voltage so that one Majorana around the corner, the other move from right to left, and then the first one unparked, and that would perform an exchange of the positions of the two particles, which would be a kind one step in a quantum computation which is protected from decoherence. That type of experiment but I expect it will be in and when done successfully, that will not just be an interesting step towards a future technology, in basic physics. Now I don't want to give exotic topological that we can build large-scale No, that's not at all the case. There are a number of ways which are currently being developed and are making impressive progress. I already mentioned one using the polarization There are a number of other ways. One is we could store our qubit in the state of a single atom, which could be, say, in either or some long-lived metastable state corresponding to the Or we could encode a qubit which has a magnetic moment, or spin, which could be oriented either up or down. So these are two remarkable encodings, because in each case, we are encoding the information which is to be processed in a truly microscopic system, either a single atom or a single electron. Another possibility, though, is to use superconducting circuits, not the exotic topological type that I but conventional superconductors, where, although, in practice, there are better ways of doing things. You could imagine encoding a qubit by choosing a state in which this current in the circuit either circulates clockwise That's a remarkable encoding, too, because, in this case, the qubit involves the collective motion of billions of electrons, and yet, for information it behaves like a single atom or electron and can be quite well-controlled. We're not far away. I expect, in the next couple of years, we will have quantum computers with more than 50 qubits, and these will be systems that we can't simulate that exist today. So this will be in the onset of the age of quantum supremacy, in which quantum systems that go beyond what we can And I think we should of a new frontier in what we could call the or entanglement frontier. This is different from the frontier we explore in particle or in cosmology at long distances, but, like those, very and, like those, in order to make advances, we instruments. We are now in the process of developing to prepare and precisely control highly entangled states of many particles, which go beyond what we can simulate. We don't have the theoretical tools to predict very well the behavior of these systems, and that's going to open new What are the things that quantum computer, which we hope we'll have with 50 to 100 qubits? Well, maybe one of the most these smaller quantum computers to learn how to make rather in particular, by testing and perfecting our procedures for doing But we'll also be able to run, at relatively small scales, new will already surpass what we study certain quantum simulation problems, for example, to investigate or to simulate complex what we can do classically. But once we have quantum try out and play around with, I expect we'll discover a number of new applications Now how far off is it that we'll have scalable quantum computers that can, for example, break the RSA Oh, that's farther away, perhaps decades. You know, I said earlier that using digital computers, but that's not strictly true, it's just a question of resources. So if you wanted to break RSA it's possible, but you would have to cover about a quarter of the land area of North America with a server farm, and then you'd be able to 10 years, but the catch is that, with the power consumption would burn up the world's supply of fossil So, from that perspective, the quantum computer looks pretty good. If we just took the technology brute force scaled it up, it's not quite as simple as it sounds, but suppose we did that, and this estimate was done experimentalist who works well, in order to have to do error correction, 10-million physical qubits, and then we'd be able to factors a number and breaks and the power we would The thing is, at the current cost of making a very good qubit, it would cost 10s of billions of dollars. So, the cost is gonna have So there are three questions that I've been emphasizing. One is, what will we do Why build one? And I think the best is that, with a quantum computer, we'd be able to simulate, we think, any process that occurs in nature, which we can't do with unable to simulate Can we really build one? Well, we know of no to doing so now that we of quantum error correction. And how will we do it? Well, as I've emphasized, there to building quantum hardware that are under development and And it's important to continue different quantum technologies may find different applications, and we don't really know which technology will ultimately have the best to large devices. What I really find interesting is the ways in which our are giving us new approaches to some of the other particularly quantum and also elementary particle physics. There's been a surge of among the community of people who work on quantum field theory in quantum information concepts. These people feel that are highly relevant and useful for addressing the problems And in a way, that's not so surprising, because the quantum gravity for 40 years with a very deep puzzle, whose origin really has to specifically, the quantum entanglement between the inside and the A black hole is a wonderful object, and one of the seminal papers was by J Robert Oppenheimer. It's an extremely simple object. It's composed of nothing but warped spacetime geometry. Its defining property If you are foolish enough and enter a black hole, you'll be unable to return communicate with your But the inside and the can be and will be and Stephen Hawking that, as a result, a black hole will emit radiation due to quantum effects and eventually radiate away And that creates a about what happened to fell into a black hole It's a foundational principle that information is not destroyed, though it can be scrambled up hard to read. So, we're faced with an unpleasant choice. If we lose information inside a black hole and then the black hole disappears, if that information is lost then we have to recast the On the other hand, if that from the interior of the black hole, that means we have to of general relativity. And after 40 years, we still don't have a clear and completely of this puzzle. What we can say about it, the best thing we can say about it is that we understood the resolution, to a large degree but not completely, in a particular setting, what we call AdS-CFT duality, and this is a description of where the vacuum energy is negative and the curvature of And in that setting, we have two complementary ways of In a way, this correspondence allows us to put a black hole inside a tin can. The walls of the can are what we call CFT, for conformal field theory, and that's just an ordinary And in the interior, we have gravitation, geometry, and and a process in which a black hole forms and evaporates completely has a complementary just the field theory on boundary. And on the boundary, there's no gravity, there's no place for information to hide, and so it seems manifest, that the process can be described without any loss of information. So at least in this case, the one where we understand it seems clear that a quantum information. But even so, we're left without of how the information manages to escape, and, in fact, it's not so description encodes the experience of someone who falls through and enters the black hole interior. So, to make further progress, we should try to deepen our understanding of this correspondence, which is a subject of much ongoing work. So let me say a little Here, for ease of visualization, boundary is one-dimensional, a circle, and the bulk geometry as So, here in this cut through the bulk, in order to indicate I've used the Poincare disc description, each one of these colored geometrical size, but they as we get closer to the boundary in order to capture And the idea the exactly equivalent descriptions one on the boundary and one in the bulk, and there's a very complex dictionary, which is only partially understood, which maps the states and to the corresponding of the boundary theory. But what has become increasingly clearer in the last few years is that this geometry in as an emergent property of on the boundary. What evidence do we have I'll tell you a few things that indicate that as emergent from entanglement. Well, one is what we call which was discovered 10 years ago now by Ryu and Takayanagi. Well, they asked the following question. Suppose we consider some and we're interested in a connected region on the boundary, entangled that region is with And they pointed out that there's an answer to this question which We can quantify which is a measure of how from this region, A, form of entanglement with and that entropy can be expressed in suitable units as the area of the minimal surface in the bulk which separates boundary region A from the complementary And those units in which we same units that we use to express the entropy of the black of its event horizon. So, we can think of where which encodes the geometry of the bulk as corresponding to on the boundary. Now here's another example. We can imagine a boundary theory which has has some higher dimensional and we consider two such theories and ask what happens when we with one another. And the answer is that the bulk geometry corresponding will have a wormhole the two asymptotic regions And when there's no entanglement between the two systems, then connecting them. So this relationship between and entanglement was elevated by Maldacena and to a general principle, ER equals EPR. EPR means Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen, who first discussed quantum entanglement in that 1935 paper I mentioned, and ER refers to Einstein and wrote the first paper discussing wormholes in general relativity. Now, if you had a quantum you tried to remove the entanglement between distant regions of space, the effect of that, according to this ER equals EPR principle, would be that the space would So, there's a sense in which entanglement provides the glue Now, this wormhole can't be used to travel quickly from one region of space to another. It's not a traversable wormhole. This corresponds with the that we can't use entanglement to send an instantaneous message from one party to another. What happens is the wormhole is dynamical; it grows too quickly for anyone to pass from one end to the other. So you might think, &quot;If a &quot;that's not really very much fun.&quot; But actually, it's a lot of fun. Because we can imagine who live in different galaxies and long for each other's company, but it's completely impractical to travel from one galaxy to another. But let's say Alice and to prepare many entangled Alice took one member of each pair, and Bob took the other then Alice could take her particles and gravitationally collapse and Bob could do the same. And those two black with one another, and that means they would Now Alice wouldn't be able and emerge from Bob's, but Alice and Bob could both and then they'd be able to and have a fulfilling but ultimately, they'd at the singularity inside the black hole and be torn asunder. So it turns out to be a tragic love story. Now, another thing that's become apparent in just is that there's a connection between this dictionary, between the bulk and boundary theory and quantum error correction, that if I consider some local operator deep inside the bulk geometry, the corresponding operator on the boundary is a very non-local operator, it's just the kind of mapping that we need to protect quantum just the kind that occurs in a quantum error-correcting code. And so the bulk geometry deep in the bulk is actually very robustly encoded so that if some damage that bulk geometry won't be much affected. So I'm hopeful that this insight can be taken further. It's really a remarkable illustration of the unity of physics. We develop the idea of because we want it to keep and we wound up with a on the geometry of quantum spacetime. So far, we've understood this Well, partially understood AdS-CFT duality, but we'd like to broaden our understanding beyond the context of because Anti-de Sitter space isn't the real case that we want to solve. Anti-de Sitter space, the thing that we that's the case where the and the curvature of but it just so happens where our vacuum energy is positive and curvature is positive, It's much easier to do quantum mechanics in Anti-de Sitter space and we can make reference to the boundary when we want to discuss the De Sitter space doesn't have a boundary, and that makes it much quantum physics in that setting. But we're going to have to learn in de Sitter space because and I'm confident we'll figure it out eventually, but it's hard. Last year, Robbert Dijkgraaf, the director of The spoke at a Caltech event, and he showed this slide and I was quite struck by it, because he was trying to ideas of theoretical and he put quantum information right in the center of things. I don't think he would have This idea that quantum information of physics has really in the last couple of years. But unlike Dijkgraaf, I would cross out the word, theoretical, because quantum information and if it's true, as we that we can think of the as an emergent property in some underlying system, then we should be able to get insights into quantum gravity by So I anticipate that, in the coming decades, we will gain deep insights into the by doing laboratory experiments with highly entangled quantum systems that, on the tabletop, in a laboratory at a place like Berkeley, will be able to, in effect, to create spacetimes and explore their properties But whether that prediction I think we can be highly confident that we'll find many as we explore the entanglement frontier. Thanks a lot for listening. (applause) - [Joel] Thank you, Professor Preskill. We normally allow a few at the end of Oppenheimer lectures, and we try to have a mix professional physicists And if you managed to follow the talk, then you're already an So, please, any sort of question. - [Audience Member] How do you feel now about the bet you made with - Now the question was about a bet. This will be the opening line I won a couple of bets and, in particular, on one of those bets, concern the question of information and whether it can escape permanently destroyed. Hawking and also our friend, Kip Thorne, took the position that black and then my side of the actually just scramble up information into a form that's hard to read. And Stephen has recanted, at the time that black holes destroy information, and it was when he conceded this bet in 2004. It was a rather dramatic occasion. We were at a conference in Ireland, in a big convention hall in Dublin, and somehow the word was leaked make a big announcement, and so there were 100 people from the press and various amateur physicists. Michael Flatley, the Lord of the Dance, it turns out that hobby, he was there. So Stephen gave a technical talk, and then at the end, he which was a baseball encyclopedia from which you can withdraw information. He knows I'm a baseball fan. This was very hard to get in Ireland because you can't get a so we had to have it shipped overnight. How do I feel about it? Well, I was surprised that we still don't have a of the problem and he would if he had decided to hold out longer until the question is And I still think I and now Stephen agrees with that. Kip does not, he has not conceded. But I don't think we really have a 100% convincing argument that information escapes - [Joel] Thank you. - [Audience Member] Can you describe the hardware that will replace the transistor chip in In other words, I'm interested is gonna look like. - So the question is, what in a quantum computer? Well, I mean, we have but they're small, and so I think you're really quantum computers of the millions of physical qubits. So the honest answer what the hardware is going to look like. Actually, here at Berkeley, they're doing terrific work on quantum computing hardware and they can show you a device that has 10 qubits in it, which is based on superconducting technology. We can imagine scaling to millions of physical qubits, though it's going to be very challenging. Another approach, which, in the long run, I think is using, as I mentioned, That technology is lagging but it's something that is perhaps especially compatible with the silicon classical technology that we have now. And I also mentioned these it's even less clear what to look like, but I did sort of a drawing of a quantum wire. - [Audience Member] A lot answered by experimentation, What kind of experimentation? What does that look like? Or is it the same answer - Well, so, what I had in mind is that we have understood, to some degree, that it's possible for a quantum system which doesn't involve gravitation at all to behave like a system that has gravity, and that's what this story of the AdS-CFT correspondence is about. So, the example we've is a very special one. It has lots of symmetry, But I think the phenomenon of a highly entangled system behaving like a gravitational But we don't have the mathematical tools to So, what we'll need to be I think, is build systems in which there are many particles which all interact with one another in a typical system The strength and the interactions depends on how distantly and it falls off with distance, but I think the kind of system with many particles or degrees of freedom which all have strong And in such systems, then we'd be able to drive them and make measurements of the way the different correlated with one another, and the task would be then to see if those correlations have an interpretation in terms of some kind - [Audience Member] We quantum entangled states. So we would have a computer, and we would take classical a quantum computer, classical solution out Just curious how you I guess the contradiction inside the computer versus that we can comprehend, - Alright, so the question is, how do we get information into and out of a quantum computer? As the question anticipated, the information that we put in The processing that occurs is done in a quantum device. It's the task of the designer to understand how to do but the initialization easier to describe. So, if I have many qubits, I mean, in my cartoon analogy, the of putting a lot of balls in door number and then a lot of quantum which can't be described classically, and in the end, we open all So, the preparation of one qubit at a time. Like, let's say it's a bunch prepare them so that they're and then we do the quantum processing, and, at the end, we just and see whether they're or, in my analogy, open the red or green. So, the process of is not so exotic. The art of designing a quantum algorithm is to of the quantum entanglement to speed up the solution - [Audience Member] Is there a chance that quantum computing will extend into a longer extent of time? - So, the question was about Moore's law and whether quantum computing further into the future. Of course, Moore's Law is the miracle that we've all been living in for 50 years or so. We've seen exponential improvement in the performance of integrated circuits. Although we've reached a harder and harder to and a lot of the improvement parallelism of classical systems, and it's an amazing story, and I think a very instructive If you go back to the 1960s, when Moore and others were thinking about the prospects for improving you know, they couldn't an iPhone. It was just far beyond what the technology was And, in the case of quantum technology, I think we're in a similar situation. We are now starting to in a completely different happened before, and we don't know where We have a few ideas of how we Undoubtedly, we haven't applications that are going So, I think my answer we've seen, in recent history, and even longer term history, that physics can drive the economic expansion of the world, that the technologies that come have a big, big impact on We've certainly seen that with the basic physics in the 20th century of understanding semiconductors, which led to integrated circuits, quantum physics of lasers, in many ways today. But that 20th century physics of, if you like, single And now we're getting a grasp on a new quantum revolution: the and I think that could well drive economic development in the 21st century. Nobody really knows, and so I don't have a precise prediction about the quantum Moore's Law. And I think we can expect that these new technologies are going to take us to remarkable places - [Audience Member] In quantum mechanics, electrons are indistinguishable. Are qubits also indistinguishable? - Now the question was about indistinguishable electrons, for example, and does that apply to qubits as well? It need not. I mean, it's possible for the qubits to be distinguishable. For example, in these superconducting circuit realizations of a qubit, each qubit is actually They're not all identical. And so there's no notion among the qubits that doesn't ability to perform its special magic. In the case of the anyons I described, they can be viewed as a rather exotic type of and that's why it makes sense by exchanging the particles. That affects the information that's encoded When the anyons change places, the... When you look at them one at a - [Audience Member] Do you interpretation of quantum mechanics? - The question is, do I... It's a question for me personally? Do I subscribe to any particular interpretation of quantum mechanics? I'm an Everettian. I like the idea. Sometimes people call it the though I'm not very fond of that name. But I think the essence is that there's really just one way for things to change in the world. Technically, quantum states in a way which doesn't create that is unitary evolution, and that's the only That measurement is not a This is a subject that people A disadvantage, you might is that in order to understand why, when I observe a quantum system, I have to include myself because what really happens is that there's more than one possible outcome, and I become correlated with the state of the And some people think this in that we have to keep track by including the observer in the system. But I prefer that to as some kind of new fundamental process. However, I think, you know, everybody's entitled, to a certain degree, to their own interpretation if they prefer. Different interpretations insights and can help to I mean, I think, to me, the is most interesting to the degree that it raises questions about what the alternative to Maybe quantum mechanics will fail, and some people expect quantum in some stage because of the issues of interpretation. I'm not sure whether that's true. But I think thinking about useful, particularly if it suggests new ways in which and look for deviations from it. - [Joel] One last question in the back. (audience member questioning) - So, I think the question was, technology is very dependent and what can we say about how advances in materials will Was that more or less the question? (audience member speaking) Yeah, well, there are materials issues in all of the things that I mentioned. There have been tremendous improvements, for example, in the performance going back 15 years, and many of those improvements superior materials to make the Josephson junctions, ingredient in the makes them control the These topological quantum computing ideas, computing with anyons, that's very much a materials issue, though it's been a great challenge to synthesize materials and bring together all the physical to make topological quantum And spins and semiconductors, materials issues are and improvements in the materials will surely - [Joel] I think, with that, Before we go, let's for a beautiful and stimulating (drum beat)