- You ready to have some fun? - [Congregation] Yeah. - All right, you can't be humble. You gotta be truthful. How many of you today would say that you're probably smarter (congregation laughing) Raise your hands. Come on, have some fun, raise your hands. Come on, come on, don't be humble. Those of you online, type it in the comments, you can put a little smiley because I know most of you think that. You may not say it 'cause but most of you think it. Most of you think you're a (congregation laughing) Most of you probably than most people. When it comes to issues, most of you think you are because I've seen you saying just how right I can't speak for all of And I know, that I'm way above average. (congregation laughing) And I'm not bragging I mean, it's hard being (congregation laughing) because we live in a world where there are so many important (congregation laughing) You know what I'm talking about, right? I mean, let's just be honest. And so if you wanna know what I'm here to tell you because I am incredibly right. (congregation laughing) I'm being a little (congregation laughing) If you wanna know about theology, I can tell you what to about spiritual gifts and And those of you who disagree with me, I'll show you why you're wrong. I can show you about the capitalism, bearing arms, abortion, sexual and gender issues, And I can even show you to wear white pants after Labor Day. (congregation laughing) And according to this the answer would probably be no, it's not appropriate to wear And I would just wanna tell you, don't just sit back and bask because it's exhausting (congregation laughing) Sarcasm ended. What I wanna today, if it's okay with you is I'm gonna push you a little bit. If I don't push you or make I'm probably not doing my job. So if it's okay that I go ahead and push me. Just say it. - You can type that in the just type it in the chat. And just remember you asked for it. (congregation laughing) If you don't mind today in the honor of the reading of God's Word, would you just stand to your feet. And I wanna give you we're gonna start with today from Luke's gospel the 18th chapter, starting in the ninth verse in a context just you'll understand is Jesus was surrounded by some people. And just to kind of say it bluntly, they were a little bit in culture today. They were always right. They were right about everything. Their goal above anything We know the way, we behave They thought they were smarter. They thought they were better. They thought they were And in verse nine, scripture says, to some who were confident of their own righteousness and looked down on everyone He said, &quot;Two men went One, a Pharisee and the One a Pharisee, the Now, if you don't know about a Pharisee, a Pharisee was very outwardly righteous. They would dress the part. They would pray loud prayers in public. They followed 613 rules or laws. We as Christians would follow 10, they had a lot more than us. They were outwardly righteous. The tax collector though because of his outward sinfulness. And so we have one guy and one who's visibly unrighteous. Scripture says in verse 11, The Pharisee, the righteous one, stood by himself and prayed, &quot;God, I thank you that I'm the robbers and the or even like this tax collector.&quot; And then he gives his He says, &quot;I fast twice a week and I give a 10th of all I get.&quot; Verse 13, But the tax He wouldn't even look up to heaven, but he beat his breast &quot;Have mercy on me, a sinner.&quot; Jesus said, &quot;I tell you the tax collector, the unrighteous one, rather than the other went for all those who exalt and those who humble What's so interesting is that the Pharisee saw himself as right and the tax collector was wrong. He was right and the other guy was wrong. But to Jesus, it wasn't it was also about pride and humility because proud people don't love well. The title for today's talk is You're Not as Right as You Think. Let's pray. Father, we ask today that wherever we are more would you humble us God? Humble us so you could exalt us to use us to make a God soften our hearts to receive your love and to show your love in all we do. We pray this in Jesus - [Congregation] Amen. As you're being seated, why don't you look at the ask them, are you the tax collector, or are you the Pharisee? Just ask them with a (indistinct) and go ahead and be seated. (indistinct) You guys are chatting up a storm. You're ready for life group. You're can have a life group right here in church, right? We're people in life group. We love to process and share God's Word. We live in a complicated time, right? I mean, it's tense out there. We're talking several weeks No Offense and there is so much tension and so many people that are right, completely convinced on opposite And unfortunately, as it's really easy for us to or our own spiritual pride, In fact, I would say respectfully that with all good intentions, sometimes those who are we tend to think that part is to be right. That's what we're supposed to be. We're supposed to be right. We preach the truth and we are right, which is partially true. But because we are right, sometimes we get offended and we can find ourselves being offended by anything they do that We're offended by what or what they believe or how they behave. And if we live offended long enough an offense starts to the offense simmers and it starts to grow. And it grows from offense to contempt. And instead of hating what someone does, if we're not careful, we Which is never a good place - [Congregant] It's good. - But we're Christians, so we're right. We're guardians of the truth, right? We are, we are, truth matters. But if we're not careful, since we're guardians of the truth, we may be offended by those who do wrong. And then suddenly, and that it's actually our not judge them, but assess them. Almost entirely different you see, because I have the to assess where people are. And so if someone asked me I will assess them. He's an okay guy, but or she's great at what she does, but she lets her kids run wild. (congregation laughing) It's our job to assess We're right about theology. We're right about churches. We can become with no real or training, we can be to assess churches We know which ones are good And because we're right, we tell everyone that church is too shallow or that one's too boring We don't teach that but we preach the the exegetical verse by verse teaching, just like Jesus didn't do. I'm sorry, it just came out. But we push off of others instead of being perhaps We are right. Our way of doing it is right. And anyone else who doesn't The Pharisee was right and he knew it. So he tells everyone else how right he is and looks down on those who are wrong. And sometimes without meaning to, we can actually do the same thing because I don't know about you, but I've got the right approach to COVID. I've got the real sources. I've done the research. I'm right. I know how people should spend their money and you do this too. &quot;Boy, if I have money like that, I wouldn't spend it on that. That's not, I know how to spend money. I'll tell him what Bible version to read. I'll tell him how to dress and I'll tell her why she 'cause she looks orange.&quot; (congregation laughing) Right? We tend to think that the best judges. We are the most right. But the truth is every We're all sinful. Our hearts, the Bible says, Our hearts are wicked And as much as we may think, we are often very, very wrong. And even if we are right, our approach may be wrong Maybe if you are really, really right. What if you are more right than most? But what if you're right, What if there are but they're rude? What if there are but they're a jerk and all they're doing is they're making a point, but they're not really (congregation cheering) Jesus wasn't just concerned He was also concerned - [Congregant] That's right. - The tone matters so much. The approach matters so much. I'll give you an example. Again, I'm entering sarcasm mode. I feel like I needed to tell you this 'cause sometimes I go there So I'm entering sarcasm mode with a little bit of truth to this. I'll just play a little game. I'm gonna tell you a and then I'm gonna ask you if you like me and if you wanna follow because of how amazing I am, because I need to warn you So I'll just tell you that. Let me tell you a little bit about myself. Amy and I, we tithe 10% of our income and we give extravagant We rarely watch TV MA shows because we don't wanna let When we do watch them, we watch them with a filter That's how holy we are. We did not have sex I don't drink alcohol. And I haven't smoked and it was only two times I (congregation laughing) I eat a high protein, low carb diet. I work out five days a week. I take my wife on weekly and I pay off my credit So I would ask you, do you like me? Do you wanna follow Jesus We have to understand is this, that people aren't drawn to They're not drawn to Just because we're right it doesn't mean that And by the way, before you we didn't have sex before we were married, but we did struggle a lot. We were tempted. We moved the wedding day up three times just to make it easier. And I might have watched &quot;Breaking which is the best series and and Amy is still mad at me about it. So there's that. (congregation laughing) Is that too much? Does that offend you? Because you can get mad at You can assess me, but I'll tell you right Like that's not even the bad stuff. I saved the bad stuff for life group. I'm not giving it to (congregation laughing) I am not perfect at all. And Jesus, He is the Let me say it again because some point you may want to respond. I don't know about this crowd, but someone in Wellington, Florida might, someone in Nebraska might, someone online might wanna say, amen. Jesus is the only one who is perfect. (congregation clapping) - He's sinless. (congregation clapping) And what's fascinating about Jesus is though He was without sin, He drew sinful people to himself. Though He was perfect in every way, those who were very imperfect, full of darkness and they felt drawn to Him. I'll give you four examples. Jesus went to parties where enjoyed His company and Second example would be this, so moved by the love and the that she knelt down at by pouring very expensive Another example would be the fact that there was a tax a man who would have stolen from his own to give the money to the Roman government who would then use the or punish his own, who didn't And Jesus came over to this There was a woman who couldn't seem to hold a relationship together, went from bed to bed, man to man and Jesus spent time loving her and offering her what she was looking for, a living water that would fill that which was empty on the inside. He was perfect and without sin, and yet He drew sinful people to himself. Why do you think that sinful broken people wanted to be around Jesus? The answer is because Jesus Jesus made them feel loved. (congregation cheering) (congregation clapping) In fact, I wanna read to you what I would consider to be perhaps maybe the most important as to how we should treat other people, is from John's gospel, John chapter 13. And before we get to the main part, I actually want you to embrace the context of what was going on how we should love one another. So we'll start in verse one Scripture says that Jesus for Him to leave this So if you can imagine He and He's now preparing to And He knows the clock is ticking Scripture says having loved I love this, what did he do? He loved them till the end. How did He do that? They're sitting around a probably kneeling having the last meal together and they're eating and Jesus gets up and As he takes off his outer robes and goes, puts on a slave's apron, and He kneels down to the disciples and does something that shocks them. He starts to wash their feet. Something that only a slave would do. And He loves them in the They're shaken, they're He goes back to eating and He says, &quot;One of you will betray me.&quot; And Judas realizes it's him. And Jesus says, &quot;What you And Judas leaves the others This is the context when He is His last meal with His best friends. He knows the suffering He is loving and serving them humble act of all to wash And while He is being betrayed by one of His closest &quot;My children,&quot; The word in the Greek it's the only time Jesus used and it's a relational term. What I like about this is every other time he's Jesus, the man, he's a friend. And now he's God, the Father and suddenly the term is my children. His tone is different. He says, &quot;I'll be with I'm about to give my life,&quot; He says. &quot;You'll look for me and so I tell you now, hey, where I'm gonna go, you can't come.&quot; And then he says, &quot;A new The word in the Greek It means not worn out. And in this context, when he says it, when He loves them to the end, I want you to feel the power of the words in the context of knowing of knowing He just washed their feet and knowing He was just betrayed. He said, &quot;Love one another as I'm loving you right now in this style, in this so you must love one another.&quot; And this is beautiful, &quot;By this, everyone will know if you love one another.&quot; How will they know if we love Jesus? How will they know if we follow Him? How will they know that They won't know we're His They won't know we're His or by what we post or by how right we are. They will know that we belong to Jesus by the way that we love them. (congregation clapping) So why do we often not love Why do we not love others in this way? The answer could be because We're too busy being right. Jesus was concerned with right and wrong. He was also concerned because when we start that I'm right, we have a very negative If our posture is I'm right, I'm right. I'm right, I have the The first thing we feel because we are right and because I feel morally superior, then it's very easy to become judgemental of those who are not right, of those who are different, And because I feel superior it's easy to become angered and offended, which unfortunately is where And that's exactly the Think about it. Jesus was the most right and least judgmental He was the most right. He was perfect and yet He In fact, we talked a couple of weeks ago about the beautiful story of the woman who was caught in adultery. Let's name the players in this story. There were the Pharisees and there was the woman She had sinned along with but we'll leave him out of this for some reason we don't know why. The Pharisees were right, And so Jesus said, &quot;If you've never ever you have the right to judge her. You can throw the first stone. But if you have sinned, you So think about it. Jesus had never sinned. He was the only one who hadn't sinned. So He had the right to What did He do? He wrote something in the sand and the men started walking away. We don't know why, but tradition tells us perhaps He was writing down their sins, which I think is really funny. &quot;Here's what you did, you lost it. I'm out of here, see you guys. I'm going back to lunch. Think of something else to do, okay.&quot; Jesus never sinned. The men left one by one. And Jesus looked at the The woman who had sinned. And he said, &quot;Where are those And she said, &quot;They're not here.&quot; And so he looked at her and he said, &quot;Neither do I condemn you, go your way,&quot; Now here's truth. He said, &quot;Go your way and sin no more.&quot; It was truth overwhelmed with love. Now I wanna ask you, what do you think that woman felt? When she was wrong and yet What do you think she felt? She felt valued. She felt seen. She felt loved in spite of her sin because His heart was different. Jesus is concerned with right and wrong, He's also concerned And here's the different imposter. If we start with the idea that I'm right, we feel morally superior. We become judgemental and we're But instead out of humility, if we start with the we feel profound with gratitude. And our gratitude then more accepting of those or maybe different. And because we're more accepting, we're overflowing with love. And we continue with a (congregation clapping) and gratitude and love and grace. And instead of being we can be humble, we can be loving. We can still share the truth, but do it in an effective way because we don't change but by loving them. - [Congregation] Yeah. (congregation clapping) I told you I was gonna push it and I'm gonna push it. I'm gonna tell you a story Some of you may be like, And that's fine, some of you are like, &quot;I'm leaving the church, I What I did is something that and I've never done again and I'm proud of what I'm gonna tell you. I'm just gonna tell you what happened. I was at a jujitsu class that I hadn't met before. He was way better than I was. And he was just cool. He was coaching me. And we were laughing. He had me wrapped up and And he was awesome. And the class ended he said, &quot;Hey, you wanna roll I said, &quot;Sure, let's do it.&quot; And he said, &quot;By the way, And I said, &quot;Well, I'm a pastor.&quot; And the moment I told him and he looked scared. He said, &quot;Oh my gosh.&quot; He said, &quot;I'm not religious.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Yeah, it doesn't matter, you're pretty dang good on the mats.&quot; And he said, &quot;I'm just, Then he said, &quot;I don't know I'm like, &quot;You're doing a pretty good job for the last 30 minutes, And what I noticed is in the he was going easy on me. I snuck up on him and I submitted him. He was much better, but I submitted him. And then he said a bad word. It was what I call lower cheer, bad word, just in case you're wondering. (congregation laughing) And I know you're gonna And so I'm actually gonna The word that he said starts with D and it rhymes with rammit. (congregation laughing) You got it? You got it, nod. - Okay, good, that's what he said. And the moment he said it, his countenance just completely changed. And he cowered and stepped back. This guy who could whip me every which way looked afraid of me all of a sudden. And he put his hands up and said, &quot;I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry.&quot; And it wasn't just like It was like guilt and shame, All these thoughts flooded into my mind. I thought, who in the world rejected him, pushed him away, held him to a standard that he had never agreed to? And so he said the D word. And in a moment, I just And I said, the D word back. (congregation laughing) Now, just in my defense, that word is actually in the Bible, so, (congregation laughing) (indistinct) And again, I'm not bragging and I'm not even saying But in that moment, I felt like it was an And when I said, &quot;I don't give a,&quot; the D word, he looked And I said, &quot;Look, man, I I'm not gonna judge you for that. I just want you to know of so, so, so much. And God loves you exactly as you are. And to be honest, I think And his eyes watered up and I barely knew him. And he gave me the biggest which is a little bit awkward because we were both wearing spandex, (congregation laughing) the way it went down. And I'm not sure what God but I know what he would Because we rarely help but we might help them by loving them and pointing them to the It was the Apostle Paul who said this, &quot;If I speak in the tongues but do not have love, I'm only a resounding And if I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all and have the faith that but do not have love, I'm nothing. If I give all, I possess to the poor and give my body over to but do not have love, I have nothing.&quot; We could say, if I read my and have a streak longer but have not love I'm not If I go to church every single weekend or have the right views about everything, but do not have love, I'm not really making a By the way, you love one another, this is how they will know Who are we? We are the body of Christ. We are the church of Jesus Christ. We are a light shining into a dark world and we lead with love. We lead with love. We lead with love. To Jesus, it wasn't just it's about pride and humility because proud people don't love well, but humble people, forgiven people, forgiven people love and love people who are broken, and love people who just like I need the grace of Jesus. So I told you I'd push you, I'ma push you a little more. Listen, if you're right about so much, you're not as right as you think, because you may be right in your ideas, but you're probably not And Jesus didn't call us to be right. He called us to tell the truth, but He never ever told us, but they'll know us by our love. And so Father, today, we ask to be a force of unstoppable And God while we live in and seek the truth, may we empower us God. And when we think often well, I can't wait until someone God, if it's for us, open up our hearts to be humble before you that you can lift us up to make As you're reflecting today those of you who would say, God help me be even more loving. I may be right, but help Would you lift up your hands? Just lift them up. You can type it in the chat, help me be more loving as your prayer. Just type that in the comment section, help me be more loving. And God, I pray this from that as your church, we wouldn't be known just but God, we would be known and not a soft, easy love, sharing the truth but doing it in a way that embraces people, listens, cares. God help our hearts break for Maybe even very different, because we're humble enough to Forgive us God, of any pride, humble us, so we can show the love of Jesus in a way that brings people to know you. As you keep praying today, I think about the guy that I And he reminds me so much of the way I felt for years and years. I felt so bad about myself. So bad about my sins. And I felt even afraid to go to church because they might know, I'm hoping that we can be a just like Jesus did, with whatever pain, whatever to come in and say, But I hope you'll hear and I hope you'll that I told this guy that Jesus And that God loves you exactly as you are. He just loves you and He loves you. And He loves you so much that He didn't just shout but He showed it on earth. He became one of us in Jesus was without sin. He was perfect and yet sinful Jesus died on the cross. Why did He die? He died for the forgiveness of our sins. He was the innocent one who died as a sacrifice in our place. And God raised him from the dead so that anybody and this includes you. It doesn't matter what you have done. How many people you've hurt, any sin you've committed. When you call on the name of He forgives your sins and Today at all of our those who say I want His grace. I'm stepping away from my sin As you call on Jesus, He and you will become new. And all of our churches who are online, those who say yes, I want Jesus. Yes, I need His forgiveness. Yes, today I give my life to Jesus. If that's your prayer, lift your hands right now all Come on, church, let's celebrate right now. As we have people at all of our churches coming to faith in Christ. Those of you who are online, Just tell us, I am Type that in right now, and we're gonna pray wherever Pray heavenly Father. - Forgive all of my sins. - Jesus save me. - Be first. - My savior. - Fill me with your spirit, - Fill me with your spirit, - So I can follow you. - As your disciple. - Showing your love. - As you have loved me. - My life is not my own. - I give it all to you. - Thank you for new life. - Now you have mine. - In Jesus' name, I pray - Could somebody celebrate big, welcome those born into (congregation applauding)