- Good morning guys. Here in Southern Arizona, Cochise County, the Mexican border is Last year, 2022, was the record number coming over the border at 2.76 million. That's the latest estimate 1 million more than the previous record. So to say it lightly, there is a huge uptick in And there is one person in law who can speak openly about this situation. Nobody else can. But that one department is And so that's who we're the sheriff here, to get a better understanding of what this situation is Let's do this. (gentle guitar music continues) (traffic whoosing) All right. Sheriff Dannels, - We're gonna head to the - They're chasing right now? - Can I show the screen or no? - No, that's... We'll get in trouble for that. But long story short, that's popping up first for me To put it in perspective, we had 1,578 people booked for border related crimes. Only 78 was foreign born, 1500 people came to my county to commit criminal, international crime. We don't have give-ups. We have complete fight camouflage that get away from us. Nobody runs up to us and - So let me explain that really quickly, or have you explain it. So some migrants are coming because they know the US right? And process them. Then they're gonna have who knows when, perhaps But the got-aways are the ones, and I'll have you explain that. And that's what we're - Yeah, we deal in probably high 90%, if not almost a hundred These are people that are seen seen by my camera system and we don't get 'em. We can't find 'em. They get away from us. These are a hundred percent They bring 'em up or they smuggle 'em. They put 'em in cars that come here from all over the United States, and then they take off on us. And that's what Cochise - So I was just up in Yuma County. I saw both, I saw give-ups and getaways. What you're saying is, every area of the country on the border is different in that respect. Like there's no uniform, it's all happening the - No, it's different. Everybody has their different challenges based on the terrain, based on population and most important, based on the cartel south of us. - What's their status right now? Are they increasing I know there's a shake up - One thing that we haven't seen, as they're having this with power within the Sinaloa cartel, the product's still coming. We know that humans are which I call, by the way, They stuff these people, they There's nothing consensual that's a definition between When you shove a or you shove a seven-year-old with a bunch of adults on top of 'em, there's nothing humane about that. - Yeah. - Sheriffs stand for three objectives; public safety, national And that's what I'm talking So there's not a win in In fact, just the opposite. It's a lose/lose to this country and the people that are being exploited. - So this is quite a nice neighborhood. - It is, but we're close to the mountains. So whenever you get that's where they're dropping out of when they come that way. - You're saying, they're - Uh-huh (affirmative). - Oh, it is. So right here in this neighborhood, they just took six and then two United State So my office took custody of - How long ago did that happen? - 30 Minutes ago. So this is the neighborhood. And they got 'em right behind us here. - Okay. - This is a beautiful area. It's a beautiful county. It's home to 125,000 people, but this neighborhood right behind us here is where they fled to. In Cochise County there's a new law that went in effect last year that if you smuggle for profit, we can charge 'em for a Class 2 felony. - Okay. - So since the law went we're over a hundred So again, it goes back to... the consequences are steep here That's Border Patrol right there. - Oh, that's Border Patrol? Gotcha. - Okay, so two US citizens... How does this work, the smuggling? Are they coming from Phoenix and just doing a caravan - They're coming from - Okay. - And they're recruited to include juveniles. They go to Phoenix, they get their set up, get a car, whatever it takes, drive down here, they're until they're told to go to - Okay. onto usually a highway like this. Jump out, get in the back of They throw off their camouflage, throw it alongside the road and away they go. - Juveniles. What do - We got 'em 13 years old, 14. We had last.... (indistinct) - Not even, they don't even have driver... - No, they don't have driver's license. Take mom and dad's car or whatever car they and they come down here. - How much are they making per migrant? - When we first started when it start getting - Yeah. - It was a $1,000 to $1,500. per person. - So you can come down in a minivan, pick up say four migrants, And you can make over 10 grand like that in a day's work. - Right. And I'll show you Yes, they can get that. And it's just incredible But it tells you the business and the profits that are being paid. If you can pay those dividends back, you can tell the billions of dollars they're making down here. - So do the traffickers here, are the cartels paying them directly or the migrants coming over have the cash and are paying them? - Two thoughts... Now first thought is, the migrants that are coming - Yep. And what is that - It's a minimum about $7,000, six people. - Get over the border. Then the cartels pay the to come here for $3,000 a head. These are US citizens transnational organizations, And they're working here for profit. So they're a laborer on the US side that coordinates the efforts, pays 'em, runs the stash houses, 'cause if they take 'em here And understand, a lot of these people So they become servant to drugs, sex, labor, gangs, you name it. So if I can stop it here, I call it, &quot;Preservation of life.&quot; - Yeah. - And that's what we're I mean, listen, there are sheriffs, there are other law enforcement that don't put the attention If you get caught here, This is a destination to not to break our laws. - How are you doing? - So, a couple like this do they know what's going on or not really? - Everybody knows. There's no secret to what We put out public's safety Let me just check, see what - So it's THAT active. We just met up 40 minutes ago and there was already one situation. - Yeah. This is not like, it's And the cartels spot us They're also on the Mexican side, but they spot us and they So they know where law enforcement, they know where my And they'll flip the county It's a cat and mouse game When you drive through these communities at over a hundred miles an hour. I think last year we put over people in our jail just from juveniles that we all the way to adults. The numbers are staggering for us. We've always had smuggling, but we've never had to the degree. And I say this all the time... I've seen the good of the border, the bad of the border and And now we're seeing the ugliest of the border. - The what of the border? - Ugliest. - This is the worst you've seen it. Since when? - I've been here 38 and a half years. 38 and a half years, this And it's worse because we from Washington DC, from Congress. We don't have it from the the Vice President or Secretary Mayorkas. All you hear is, &quot;The That's a false narrative. That's complete false narrative. When people are dying in my county... We just had that one last week again. When people die in my county, and they're saying this is secured, that's not an expectation - Yeah. - We had 72 structures It started in Mexico in an area where smuggling was prevalent. And we think it was a diversion fire, but it got outta hand all the way up to back - Diversion fire. Explain that. - It makes sense. - Starting fire. so you guys are all your resources... - There, while they bring - Do they have the upper - They DO have the upper hand. We've given 'em an extra I mean, let's just get real. And that's the most We can get this back. It's And we don't have the will. Our will's been misplaced, to open it, not close it. And remember, law enforcement, we have policies, they have none. They have no rules. They know if we're coming to a city, the chances are we're gonna pull back. We're gonna do some different interdiction compared to if we're in a rural area. You're taking a ruleless, lawless behavior against some disciplines and... It is frustrating. - So my question, and I but so if you're a 13-year-old Once you go as low profile as possible, you'd creep in slowly. You would take the migrants Why wouldn't they just - And that's the common sense approach, but this is nothing on that's got any common sense built into it. We had one the other day, just 115 miles-an-hour, smuggling. Went by us very quickly and almost hit one of We chased him, ended up about five miles to my right. And then we took the Driver got away. It's frustrating. I mean, But when you got two or and you got depleted rural resources, we're doing everything we can. - Would the cartel, they just want their money... So would they actually tell &quot;Go as fast as you can.&quot; Then it puts your resources on that car, then something else can go over there or wherever. - Once you isolate your resources, it opens up a big avenue, a big path. - Yeah. - We know it, where strategically, we've looked at this whole county. This is the 38th largest land - Mm (affirmative). - 83 miles international border. I got over 90 deputies, police departments. They got their resources. The troopers, they're And then you got Border Patrol. And they're so tied up with processing, they've lost a lot of So we're doing everything we can. On behalf of national sheriffs, I actually was one of that actually sat on President to educate him, inform them, bring awareness to what And I did that back in '16 too, the election, after the election. I was very optimistic that we were gonna go in They were very complimentary the education efforts, the awareness and the enforcement and the innovative programs So I was shocked on the first day. This is before he took office. Then the first day he a non-emergency and has And we're still in frozen Even though Secretary Mayorkas December and said, &quot;Hey, We're gonna do this, Sheriff.&quot; And I've seen nothing. I've seen nothing. - So the border has always It's always been a let's say, by each side? - Yes, and it's got worse over time. And between President it's got the worst I've - So you do this, you go up next to cars and lying down or what? - If I pull up along side of that car, they recognize I'm law enforcement, you'll be able to see right away. A lot of 'em just take off like... - So how many times a day? How many times on this road here are you dealing with pursuits? - In the county here, I don't know the stats just on this road, we run 2 to 3, up to 10 a day, somewhere in the county. - 10 pullovers a day. - No, that's pursuits. - 10 Pursuits a day! - That's pursuits. - And you think about that for a second. That's when, and you look at, that's the cops actually engaging with the vehicle. You see it, there's not So they got the upper hand on that too. Those are ones that we get behind, like I'm doing right now where I'm actually - So sheriff, this is one - This is. This is about So the smugglers drive down this highway south to the border, pull off along the road where They jump outta the and they're gone within minutes. And they come north right through here. - What nationalities are you - We see it all, we do, we see it all, but mainly from the Northern - Right, because there's Mexicans will be sent back immediately by Customs and Border Protection, right? - Pending their statement of asylum. - Okay, and so... - If they say the fancy words, they don't. - The fancy words. Okay. And they might get rid so nobody knows, right? - That's right. We see a lot of that. - Okay. they don't even bring They start brand new here. - We're the first sheriff to do what? - To be appointed on behalf of sheriffs throughout of the Department of Homeland This council is to help homeland security address community issues when President Biden took over, within months after he took over, this administration, to sent a letter to 28 out of and relieved us, in a time where the border We were doing great this administration's mind, And what I've been told that's the first time anybody's EVER been relieved from that council. It's a bipartisan committee. Second of all is, currently there's not one law enforcement, active law enforcement - Who sits on it? - Different groups, The National Sheriff's Association, our executive director who's but there's no active sheriff's on it. There's no sitting police chiefs. IACP, their executive director sits on it. But there's not voices from the community. Those are executive directors that manage our businesses every day. - You spoke to Mayorkas directly. He came down here? - We met him in El Paso. - Okay. - We had several meetings which wasn't uncommon under maybe even former, but the means were all where you weren't allowed you could just listen, listen both. - And then when we had that meeting, I set up a group about 10 to 12 sheriffs. I expressed my dissatisfaction to that, his letter. And he asked me, &quot;Sheriff, you or administration has the right?&quot; It's not about legality, it's not what's morally for these communities without even engaging with us. And he said they thought, his thought they could do a better job. How can you say you're better now than you were under the And whether you like him whether you like Trump or not, his policies were better handled. Then they come back and say, &quot;Well, that was inhumane treatment.&quot; Let me just say this... National sheriffs came which was shared with all of the over 1000 migrants that have died coming across our border illegally. - Mm-hmm (affirmative). that have died on US soil. We just had one last week, that nobody's talking about. Nobody's talking about. That's inhumane. - So we're right here. - This is it. at the border. - We'll get out here, we'll take a look. I'll get you some film. - Look at that, sort of - It is. This is an old historic area. Been around a long, long time, man. This is one of the safest parts - So this fence here, when - This was done back in the nineties, the mid nineties. - People forget the history of the border, but if you looked at the (indistinct chatter) - Heads up I had to make good luck. You know what I'm saying? In my business we take all So this was a plan that was &quot;Hold The Line,&quot; and And what it did was, is planted the peace. It protected the port of And it also protects the populated areas. Yuma, El Paso, San Diego that were protected. So they have a plethora of That's why you see so much. But as you go away from ports and population, it goes to nothing. - And the idea of that back in the 90s was routing the criminal activity, the cartels into those thinking that would be Well, come up 20, 30 years later, 26 years later, it's been the best They have exploited our rural counties. That's why we're a byproduct of so much. You see the wall here, this 31 foot? - Yep. - That was President Obama that A lot of people blame Trump. That was actually President Obama. When President Trump took not extended, but remodeled That project was left And of course it's finished. - How was Obama with the border? Better than now, right? - A hundred percent better now. President Bill Clinton, a Democrat, was very good on the border. So what has happened since President Clinton and President Trump? We are so divided now that this border is so politicized now. I mean two different lanes. And so we have complete and a secure border philosophy. There's no longer any It's politically driven. It's not public safety It's politically driven. - Right. You can't... There's gonna be no It's a messy topic and situation. - It's really not that messy. People make it messy because there's so many It's actually, if you and you have a strong message that, &quot;We will have a secure border,&quot; which also takes your oath I'm gonna protect this whether you're local, state, to support the constitution, and that says, &quot;You will - Okay, so someone might say, You don't believe in immigration.&quot; - No. - What are your thoughts on that? - You look at all the people illegally and claiming asylum. If they just come to this port right through there, they walk up here and say, &quot;I want to claim credible fear asylum.&quot; - And then they go to a - Well, that's where the system breaks. - Okay. - That's where the federal - So there's no easy way if there's a legitimate asylum claim so... - No, there IS an easy way. - And Secretary Mayorkas, when I said we need to have in every port of entry, every - Okay. - So when these people come across legally here and say, &quot;Hey, I want to claim a judicial oversight from will address it right you will know if you fit our rule law. - So we just don't have the staff. - We don't have 'em. - No. - So what we've done is, once you make, I call 'em, &quot;Magical they're released. They attend their first hearing, usually, within a year of that up to a year. They'll take it 'cause they and they still get in the system. After that is when they disappear on you. That's when they disappear. Most of 'em you don't - Okay, I've done what, four or five, six trips now to the border 'cause it's like a lot of pieces, puzzle pieces you gotta put together. So let me get this straight. If you're in Yuma, if you're not a get-away, but a, what's the opposite? - A give-up. - If you're a give-up, you get pushed through into Correct? You're in the US, you have who knows when you can and you're legal in the country and all you did was just not through a port of entry like this. So technically, that's breaking the law. - But the only way to do That's the way in because there's no one here to process anything. - And you're released here. - I got that right? - No. - We need, this is the problem I have. I'm all about legal system. - I'm all about humanitarian. Everything I've talked goes back to true humanitarian. Whether you're from this The law states that if you or an asylum claim, you point of entry like this. - You don't have to come We've said it's okay because for not holding them accountable, 'cause you're breaking the law by coming to our country illegally. Most countries will expel you right away. - Yeah. There's no consequences. Just get across. You're here. Claim the words. It's happening. There's no difference or if you do it where the - So why wouldn't you do it where the law says you should do it? - The main reason is, the Cartels can't make money that way. The cartels want it, they're in charge of this and Instead of doing it this way, they do it the illegal way. Nothing's, there's no rules. Remember, we follow rules They don't, the cartels have - Oh, okay. Okay, so... - So if you wanted to do you'd just come up the highway somehow. - Come right through here. - And go through, but the cartels aren't - No. These communities, in fact, to enter this region, from Agua Prieta, it's a port even before you pay your coyoted across by the cartels, you gotta pay $1,000-$1,500, on the south side, to the cartels. - And they know you're there? - They know you're there. Yes. - In Texas, they were getting tagged, like plastic tags. - Remember, we're dealing They all do it a little bit different. - Okay. - That's why you have different But my point on this is this, and this is what I told why don't we up the game on all our regions and port of entries so we can address those immediately? Put this in perspective of a community. I arrest somebody for DUI, I Within 24 to 48 hours is throughout the country that a justice of the peace or district judge, however otherwise you're released. Think if I took those I'd have to release domestic batter people and There's no difference here on the border. If you have judicial oversight 9 out of 10 don't even qualify and that's not my stat, that's the stat they tell us and you see 'em going back because they can't use how many people are - They're not gonna bother 'cause they're gonna be sent back. - Right, 'cause our rule - Yeah. that 1, 2 out of 10 that can then we have a good process. - Well it's a real great the first time in this is the way to get in. - It is. And that's what I'm saying. - That's part of that fracture. And they're gonna keep breaking the law because there's no when you can do it legally and still get the same end results, but it's more organized and If you look at the amount of money, the humanitarian money because we're not I was told that per week on health and human services. - As a country. - $60 million. - To take care of those... - Illegal migrants. - Staying in hotels, feeding unaccompanied minors, you name it. Where that number is but I guarantee you it hasn't got less. - I try to stay out of We're so politically divided with everything it's just shoved down Right? - So I wanna be a channel to get a story and not be fed a narrative. What's your take on... There's just no way to avoid It's just like one party one wants to do the other. - I will say this and politics has no business in public safety. Never has and it's been affected It gets worse and worse and it's just, it's taken the morale away. It's hurting our retention. And it's taken the respect If you cut the extreme left politics, extreme right of politics, we can get down the road on this. - Yeah. - But until we get loud it's only gonna get worse. - And nobody's getting a And I haven't even fully 'cause there's a lot to it. What you broke down there, I never even knew a lot And so, none of our media unfortunately. - And they don't. I've always said this, we're all entitled to an opinion, but we're not entitled to our own facts, and the facts on this border. And I look at national media. Why don't you put it out the way it... - Why am I doing this? - Yeah, why don't I have you here? And I've talked to national We got one major network that and you got the rest that - And know what's interesting, will cover one story, which is that there are people and they're seeking honest asylum. And that is a true story But that's a small percentage because just like them, I I see the opportunity up here, I'm gonna run with my family. Of course I would. Why wouldn't I? Right? But they're only reporting which is, who knows of what's actually happening here? We have an 80% plus of another story that nobody's talking about because it's just blown my mind and hearing it from everybody. - I will say this and I said my lane's not immigration. It's not. - My lane is a sheriff, though immigration blends My lane is the crime of it, national security and the exploited by these cartels, - And I would talk to those but they're not allowed to. There's a gag order or something now. - They won't let you talk to 'em. - They can't talk. That They're not allowed to be transparent. In hotel lobbies, when the camera's off, okay, we'll get into the conversations, but I can never record that so the sheriffs are the unfortunately. I'll say this. We have a I think we have five, 600 Border Patrol agents in our county, plus we've been up to I have yet to meet a Border Patrol Agent that, (A), hasn't thanked hasn't thanked our troopers, haven't thanked our for being there for 'em But number two, which is most important, I have not heard a Border even to include the &quot;Sheriff, this is working. We're proud of what we're - They're pretty, they're demoralized, huh? - They're demoralized, they're frustrated and they're insulted. I promise you to that. And can they tell you that? Of course they can't tell and I will. - Until this is fixed, I will continue to voice (wind blowing) See all the crap, the booties, - Oh yeah. This is a ranch land. So the cows eat that Stuff's up their digestive. That's all along our It's horrible. - So they somehow got There's probably some gaps, right? And then they came to here and then there's a car waiting for them? - Uh-huh (affirmative). That's why you see so much presence here. - And usually at night? - Day and night, usually it starts kicking up really heavy, but they run early morning too. - And it could be some making 10 grand a run. - We see a lot of Chargers. Dodge Chargers is one of They're big and they're fast. And then we see a lot of temporary tags, where they buy the cars 'cause I call 'em, &quot;Disposable cars.&quot; See how fast this car is way up there? Holy moly! See that Charger passing? - He's flying. - Yeah. - This thing is pretty well modified, huh? - Oh yeah. - What are we doing? 130? - Yeah, getting up there. - So he slowed down, we slow down now. - Okay, temp tags. - Avenger, not a Charger. - About traffic. 346. Stand by for the temp tag. (indistinct radio chatter) - You can stand out there if you wish. - I never saw the show, &quot;Cops,&quot; but I'm starting to feel like I'm in it. - How are you doing? May I see your license, You just buy this? (indistinct radio chatter) - Cochise 1, it's gonna So you work here? - Okay, how come you have if you work here? - He went to New Mexico to buy the car. - Okay, 'cause you can't have, if you work here, you gotta have Arizona. - Sorry, (indistinct). - You need to put it on there 'cause it's flopping all I can't read it 'cause it's Cochise 1, show me clear. It's what we do, it's part of I'd rather check it and make everything's right, address but make sure there's no And this one, there wasn't. - 10 Miles ahead, there's some - Yes. Nobody's chasing this vehicle. 110 miles an hour coming - So if they're not getting - Because the cartels tell And they tell us that &quot;They told me to go They're afraid of the cartels. This is a game of violence. If you can get one car caught, divert all the law enforcement resources and they get nine through, - They're just really - They're very good at what they do. They run a good business. They're making billions of dollars a year. You gotta figure, they're And I say this all the time as their best friend is in Washington DC, and that's a horrible thing to say. But until they start addressing they're gonna exploit people, they're gonna harm people with drugs every day in this country. And we're not doing a damn thing about it. (gentle guitar music begins) These are all the containers So the site we're on was staging these containers About four miles was already done. With the new governor, she along with the former governor, 'cause the federal government and said, &quot;You can't have 'em out there.&quot; - Interesting. So in Yuma yet the feds are coming They're filling up the wall there. - Right. - But they're not doing that here? - They're not doing that here. Behind me on the mountain range, about 10 miles is wide open, These were put there to help, they're double stacked to secure it. The federal government sued the state under the former governor and said, &quot;Hey, take 'em away, we'll fix it.&quot; We'll see if that happens. - They agreed to fix it or no? - They said they would, but my understanding - No materials getting put so the gaps are there. - Again, over a year ago, the secretary told me he was gonna come in and do a bunch of stuff in the county and that hasn't happened either. - How hard are the sitting back with some popcorn? - I've said it, I'll keep saying, the winners are the criminal cartels and every day that goes by is a day they exploit another The money that they're putting 'em up, putting these are tax dollars through - So how many containers in total? - Thousands. They had thousands 'Cause you gotta figure, two containers high. - And when did this start? When did they start putting those, assembling those? October, so it's pretty recent. - Yeah, this is all recent. So between the federal millions and millions of 'cause political division, one likes it, party one doesn't like it, and as we... - And then it switches - As the ole rule has it. - Also people vote on what So if someone's not dealing it's not even on the radar. - It's not and I mean... it's the number one thing, right? - I always look at how It goes back to their quality of life. Ask my rural folks that that have people coming every night in camouflage, or coming up through their pastures, or they die on their property. Where's the quality of life? I guarantee you, if you had the numbers that you see in coming and all our communities or downtown New York or any they would stop it like that. I promise you. - There's a lack of empathy I There's a lack of just And there's also a lack of empathy because nobody wants cartels and getaway cars and migrants coming through their lawn where or whatever, nobody And if someone had to deal with it, they wouldn't want it, right? - Well, it all goes back to and influence, sadly to say. And I mean, - There's no way these would put up with this in a minute. They'd have more resources and our elected officials But since we're on the border, we saw it during COVID, we "We wanna open up border Title 42" and every time turn around &quot;Should we put masks back on planes? People should wear a mask.&quot; While they're talking all that, they're trying to get rid Aren't we part of America too? That's the most frustrating thing for me. - So Title 42, for those that don't know, was put in place to stop because of COVID, right? It was. I see the irony in that one. - It really was, but we were every Title 42 discussion. Our federal government... And I'm at the point when COVID was still in and they still wanted there was no plan. There's 'cause we're in a crisis mode down here. So if you're gonna get what's the measure to replace it with? Let's just use common sense. This is tactical. It's There is no plan because they - So do you guys feel or just disrespected, or what is that feeling like? It's intellectual avoidance I'll keep saying that. I say it all over. Some of the sheriffs pick but it's true. These are smart people in Washington, DC. They're They're avoiding it, no doubt about it. You can put the word, &quot;Abandonment,&quot; in there if you want too, However you wanna look at it. But we also have intended consequences, both for them and on that we're dealing with that's - Hi. - There's no doubt about that. When they won't engage with you, they know there's destruction down here and every level. - But they won't engage with you, especially when the federal is their responsibility. - That's the big deal, right? - Yes. and you're picking up the slack. - And immigration, which we all seem to go is a federal issue, but Who is talking about border It's not about border It is for me, it is for Border Patrol. I promise you, it is for It's about their public safety. - Yeah. - Go downtown Iowa and ask And it's to make sure that their tractors aren't being stolen. Their farms aren't being destroyed. Look at Yuma. Look at here. Where they're coming through there and they're ripping right through the people's quality of And nobody cares about that. What's ironic is this last 48 hours. The car that just was going a hundred and something miles an on the side roads. - A couple miles, yeah. So it didn't come through here. 9 times outta 10, they 'cause this is wide open. So that's a deterrent in But now you put 'em back onto a side road, where who knows where it went now? - That's federal government. - Yeah, just federal government. It's been closed the majority They didn't bring in more staffing. They took already depleted - So if you're smuggling humans, why don't you just go like the road, the guy that went super fast, why would you even go up this - Because that's a main artery You're getting the money, until you get the people to Phoenix or wherever you're going. Usually Phoenix is the outlet. So they'll give 'em a route, but really, they're the ones that They do. And if they get caught, there's 10 more people, So I mean really there's They're dispensable, disposable, however you wanna look - We can't put Border Patrol on camera. - Correct? - Okay. I don't wanna get them in trouble. It just, they just can't talk. - I had the camera off, but basically, the agent said when he works because a lot of the that they're here. This just reopened, as the sheriff said. But when he is on the border and sort of, as he said, &quot;A babysitter,&quot; demoralizing. So they So he is like, here, So that's probably a good So they don't totally burn out on the... - It is, and I, again, my hats are off. I applaud our Board Patrol Agents. I mean, these guys didn't They signed up to enforce and but they even put it in And I feel bad for 'em, I really do. And like I said, I've never &quot;Sheriff, I hear you're strong things are working.&quot; - Exactly opposite. - So if there's resistance the opposite would be dismantle all the wall that In California and Texas, Anyone proposing that? The results would be - There are people out that would say, &quot;We don't If they had their way, they get rid of Border They'd get rid of law These are people that truly believe the badge that represents communities is the line between evil and good. They'd get rid of all of us. - Okay, so they have no They haven't really seen when the rule of law is very then you have nothing. - I think they're very naive. And I also think they've never And that's a heck of a is to have to be a victim. So our job is to protect them so they're never a victim of a crime. That's our ultimate So I don't agree with that defunding law enforcement or getting rid of Border That's just, and this but that's just ignorant thinking. - It's ignorance, but the goal Make law enforcement better. Make doctors bet... Make everybody better. There's always gonna be some bad apples, right? - And even on the border, I've heard, some guys are working with the cartels, a very small amount, but whenever you have that many - You're always gonna have rotten apples in an organization. - You're always gonna have that small, small percentage of corruption. I've been a cop over 38 years and I've seen a handful of bad cops, a handful, I'm saying. In the hundreds and thousands of cops I've worked with in almost four decades, the majority are good. This goes back to, and instead of taking that negative state, local, and federal, put it toward helping us and make sure you have sheriffs that care about communities, that care about people and like people, good police chiefs serving communities and making sure our federal government's held accountable too. - They seem to be the immunity when it comes to leadership. We're all, I don't care of the United States or we all serve people and we all have an oath But more important is to obey and enforce and sustain that rule of - All right guys. The sheriff was very That's another view in on the US border. Now if you seen my other border videos, I got a playlist from West They're all a bit different with the situation they're dealing with, but it's all a big problem for each one of these And I know it's been politicized heavily. There are all different But I think a final question if your community was dealing and the problems, would you not want to stand and would you not want that isn't working for the So I'll leave it at that. Watch the other border videos. Watch other people's content. Don't take an easy distilled There's a lot to it. Thanks again for coming along. Until the next one. (gentle guitar music fades)