[Miss Frizzle]: All right children, who's ready to go on a field trip to see the stars? a museum? Please let this be a normal field trip. that's not how the Frizz rolls. [Miss Frizzle]: We're going to blast [Dan]: Miss Frizzle? [Dan]: Miss Frizzle? [Dan]: We're missing Matt! Hello Internet. Welcome to Film Theory, where recognize this voice? It's me, Head Editor Dan. got me. Question two: Are you subscribed? Are you? Unknown it probably wouldn't come as any surprise to school. Why else would I edit for these channels? that they let me go to Challenge, which is Now, if only I had the foresight the amount of money I could have made. But anyway, you knew a day in science class was going to that ginormous CRT TV and popped in a VHS tape *whispers* Yes. Thank you. I'm totally aware an Internet boomer and I'm DEALING WITH aughts and 20-teens can all agree on though, Miss Frizzle was the embodiment of the perfect interesting topics and taking our students on learning. Whether it was traveling through or that one time when they traveled inside one or when the whole class got turned into bees. Yeah. Okay sometimes those trips were a bit, and life threatening? But also theorizable? Oh, going to ruin his own childhood. That lasted the fine, let's just ruin everything. So we dusted off Director Lee pointed out that we can't watch the And from the first episode of The Magic School sensibilities got the best of us. In this episode, to Miss Frizzle not calling ahead to see if it was and kidnaps, I mean, escorts the children to the They visit the sun, some of the planets. And the which was the ninth and final planet hurts that this guy got demoted to a dwarf planet... It was totally justified. There are five and if Pluto's a planet, Anyway, near the very end of the very first surface of the Gimli-sized Pluto, one of the he rips off his space helmet and instantly like one of those janky Sonic the Hedgehog ice Now, hold up, hold up, hold up. I know through some Clinton era edutainment, but that but you can't just go from annoying can you? So, like the very normal the scientific realism of this nineties Just a very normal thing to do because while Matt fell into a rabbit hole bigger loyal theorists. Miss Frizzle's antics would over before they reached the edge of the solar kids in the classroom to painful deaths Buckle up, friends. This one's going I guess we should start with the final scene and after ripping off his helmet, Arnold transforms would that really happen? Well, at first glance, See, deep space is cold. Like, the surface temperature of Pluto reaches a That's -240 degrees Celsius. Just the coldest temperature ever recorded on Earth was Fahrenheit. So when Arnold takes Well, not necessarily. And to understand why, we level. When we talk about the temperature of space or that scalding cup of coffee you spilled is how much the molecules in said empty space or When two molecules collide, they release heat. The more collisions, the more heat is something is. When something hot makes I don't know, the face of a redheaded fourth space. That energy transfers from the hot Fun fact, there is a limit to how cold something which is the point where the molecules don't And when you look at that number, which is Kelvin for you nerds out there. It's pretty However, despite the nearly 500 degree difference degrees Celsius or 98.6 Fahrenheit. It's not out at once. It would take somewhere between 12 to And given that only Arnold's head is directly And thankfully, the kids think quickly and get seconds. So while it wouldn't be comfortable, quickly as we see in the cartoon. And speaking of, Well, she's standing by as her students are being Her principal is probably going to have to have while Arnold might survive his brief this little maneuver still would have you might expect. As soon as Arnold takes inside his lungs would be released into We briefly touched on this in our episode about sister location Game Theory, but it's worth If you're ever stupid enough to don't hold your breath. Why? Because, as in your lungs immediately wants to And if you hold your breath, then there's nowhere your lungs. I don't know about you, but if my I'm going to pick the option that doesn't literally explode. It doesn't look like Arnold So while the cold might not have killed him, the even if he did breathe out before taking off his going to be bad news for Arnold. Without your organs and especially your brain would But that's three whole minutes to get somewhere from the other kids likely did save Arnold's something entirely survivable. But, well, Arnold, and the rest of the class Just before the gang reaches Pluto, they in the solar system, known collectively as I'll let you decide if you want as well as Neptune, and observe the Also worth noting that the children are driving gone M.I.A. And has turned finding her You know, the more I talk about this, the more I'm like, Miss Frizzle was Yeah. It's going to take more than a trip through this trauma. Anyway, the gas giant the largest planet in our solar system. And great red spot. Now, if you've seen a picture It's one of the planet's most iconic features. cool aesthetic feature or a beauty mark. It's a since at least the 1830s. And what's more, as 16,350 kilometers in width, 10,160 miles, than the entire earth. And size isn't the only Its speed is also insane. The fastest wind 231 miles per hour, or about 372 kilometers Hampshire in 1934. But wind speeds in the great or about 644 kilometers per hour, Now flying into the dense atmosphere of Jupiter school bus to shreds. But this is a magic school wouldn't protect the kids from letting the storm visit the kids open a spigot that allows the Now, with those 400 miles per hour speeds, fastest train. But that is nothing compared would begin pouring into the bus at that we talked about all of the air wanting to get That happens because of air pressure, something pushes up against the walls ton of gas in Pluto's atmosphere, the air than on Pluto. But on Jupiter? you have on the quote unquote surface of Jupiter Or say, the interior of a magic school bus meant of it is Jovian gas wouldn't just trickle in with of the bus. And that could cause some serious Despite decades of study, scientists aren't Some theories suggest it's ammonia reacting the inside of your lungs and throw it on like the rest of Jupiter, is composed this would be awful news for the children 400 miles per hour wind spewing toxic or And frighteningly, this would likely for these kids on this field trip from The class dodges some asteroids in the asteroid without a magnetic field and a prolonged stay on the Martian surface But that's nothing compared to the dangers say things wouldn't be looking so hot for scratch that. Things would be looking very sun than Mercury, Venus is actually the its average surface temperatures racing 850 That's ten times hotter than a painfully warm this? Well, 96.5% of the Venetian atmosphere anything about CO2 here on Earth, you'll know to absorb the heat coming from the sun. Earth's So that 96.5% figure, that's insane. And into a giant blanket that's holding in all or billion years. It's so hot that even metals The longest a space probe has ever landed on If something the smartest scientists on the on Venus couldn't even outlast the runtime Miss Frizzle's class would be dismissed the surface. And even if they somehow survived the next time it rained because, what Speaking of utterly painful death. Man, what a same issues on the bright side of Mercury, which Fahrenheit or 427 degrees Celsius. But that. That since Miss Frizzle decides to start this field You know how you're told constantly to not look That's because even here on Earth, 92 million atmosphere protecting us from the worst of much light and energy that it can permanently imagine driving directly up to the sun, To be fair to Miss Frizzle, she does But your eyes aren't what you should be to tell exactly how close the class gets, but plasma that blasts off the solar surface. which can sometimes stretch as far as a which means that at best, the bus just traveled That might sound like it's far, but it isn't. The sun is big, loyal theorists. I'm be devastating. The Parker Solar probe, will be the closest manmade object ever to to get close to our star, but at its closest At about 3 million miles away the temperatures of cause those NASA's space suits to fail. Basically, it would look less like a fun edutainment cartoon So every step of the way, every planet these for them. Except the one that created such a But here's the thing, loyal theorists. It's not Miss Frizzle doomed these children to a long, foot on another planetary body or flew too close radiation. See, there's a lot of But there are special kinds that you ever find yourself in space. The first is solar to worry about this stuff. As I mentioned an atmosphere or electromagnetic field protects that get through, the ultraviolet light, can be But in space? There's nothing to block the cosmic rays, ionizing radiation like X-rays or mean the sort of gamma radiation that turns you The stuff is much less cool, damaging your DNA in NASA specifically builds their spaceships, space from this sort of radiation. That's partially why cool golden visors. Details that the Magic School these particles would be cutting through kids shaped butter, likely making the kids very, In the end, every decision Miss Frizzle the kids to collect Jovian gas to stop to flying by the sun and even just exiting precautions would have led to the deaths exposed them to lethal doses of radiation, and left them to get crushed and suffocated While I love learning and passing on knowledge, doing so in this way was irresponsible. sooner than when Arnold took off his helmet. they would have survived with minimal injuries. And yet, despite all of this I would want nothing more than to go on But hey! That's just a theory. Man kids programs could sometimes be scary. And, You can go ahead and click this one about Paw And then, oh, what's this? This is a Bluey despite how much I love this show. Anyway, I...