How to raise your credit score by 200 I had a 558 credit score and in just Yes. I literally got my credit score increased I'm going to share with you exactly what So, when we are talking about credit, we are guys may be aware that there are 3 credit bureaus Transunion and Experian. Those 3 credit bureaus the debts that you've taken out. For example if if you have a car loan, if you have a mortgage; on your credit report as a trade line. how much you owe them, what the payments all of the information regarding that account. You want all credit cards because those are considered loan, or a couple car loans because those are of the different types of accounts that exist. everybody on time. Those are the main things when how you increase that score. So, step one, the about increasing your personal credit scores, many times I know you've heard that you can get sites like annualcreditreport.com and get a free you will not get your real credit score by getting a little bit of money to actually see what your to a company called myfico.com. I have found that pulling my students and my other clients credits scores are. I'm telling you a secret but I really ones, their scores are not necessarily as accurate are seeing. So, if you want to get your credit you got to know where you start. So, go ahead bit of money to find out what your credit when it comes to personal credit, there's a major this is one of the things that I found. As my credit score started to go way down but I build my business. So, I'll take you back. Many real estate around 2002-2003 and I was a complete up back in my parents' basement with multiple But while I was in my parents' basement, I how to find people with property problems and I and then flip those contracts to other investors thousand dollars per deal and I was able to get is I still kind of had bad credit. I would pay off and trying to get myself back into position. But of the foreclosures in the bankruptcies that were increase my credit score, I had to get creative. sponsor me. So, many of you guys know that you can their credit cards. I did this and my credit score able to ask my dad if he would put me on some of but I knew he wasn't going to like co-sign for me could put me on his credit cards as an authorized and a very high credit limit. For example, he had or something like that. And he didn't carry a the card and he had had that card for like 7 or they started reporting that on my personal credit increased. He did that on about 5 or 6 of his credit score up 100 points. So, that's how you get you need to find someone with very good personal an authorized user on those accounts. They do not very little risk to them. The next thing that I is you need to get some of that bad credit start cleaning up your credit report. So, one of errors or omissions or things off of it. Because what I learned was the burden So, in other words, if I had a charge off the burden of proof was be on At&amp;T to prove that And if they did not verify it, it would have to do the same thing. Once you have the copy of your you have all of the accounts. It's very simple to any errors, anything that you could dispute to get any inaccuracies, any errors, or any that you see on your credit report that you you can also get that removed. So, you can start report by starting to file some of those disputes can also get off of your credit is inquiries. pull our credit and they will pull it many, many for a car for example and they may shop your loan of those companies is giving you hard inquiries. start to get those hard inquiries removed from about this and I'm going to put a link in there is amazing and it is something that you need to What happens with those hard inquiries is each one where you got declined from. And if they'll remove from themselves after 25 months, After 25 months, they'll automatically fall off removed sooner, you can go ahead by doing that and again I made a whole video for you. So, you any bad credit and errors, omissions, things that you don't recall. And then last but inquiries and getting that credit report cleaned I was going to give you a big secret on how you again and do all of what Noelle did. So, like but I had terrible personal credit a couple of know anything about personal credit but more One of the things that has changed my personal have a strong business credit profile for all of thousands actually millions for some of my credit profile. This doesn't go on my personal cards, my score is not going all up and down like And now, I'm in a situation where I really my business credit handles everything that I need. the limits are so much more higher. With personal for example, they may only give you $1,000. But start you off with $5,000 where they would have personal one. So, again, the limits, the amounts, world and you really want to step into the world I said and fix that personal credit but please made a ton of videos teaching you all about this there you have it. You now know how to increase all of the steps, all of the different things that sure you click that like button. Make sure you notification bell so you do not miss any of this weekday absolutely free. I want to make sure that and all of the knowledge that you need to be