[music] Dr. Charles Stanley: Are you feeling hopeless? Nobody cares; nobody's You've had all kind of You've had all kind of things people, but somehow there's male announcer: Today on &quot;In Dr. Stanley: The word hope is It's a word of optimism, a word All of us need hope about many And when you have hope, you do forward to something. When you have no hope, there's a You find yourself in the muck can't put your finger on. Where is my hope? In other words, what am I living And there are multitudes of hope. They don't have any hope about They have no hope about their They have no hope about their about their future, about their They have no hope about life about life after death. They have no hope about They're living in the muck and but going nowhere. They're just there. That's never the intent of He intends for us to have goals confidence and assurance; and And what I want to talk about in example of a person who There was nothing about their And I trust that you will a wonderful ending, but a very So if you'll turn if you will in and let's read a few verses of Let's start with this first background. All right? &quot;Therefore when the Lord knew that Jesus was making and John, although Jesus Himself was were,&quot; and I thought this was, That is, He didn't want to take He left Judea and went away &quot;And He had to pass through He came to a city of Samaria of ground that Jacob gave to his there. So Jesus, being wearied from His well. It was about the sixth hour.&quot; Or about twelve o'clock noon, to draw water. Jesus said to her, 'Give Me a For His disciples had gone away Therefore the Samaritan woman You, being a Jew, ask me for a woman?' Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, and who it is who says to you, have asked Him, and He would She said to Him, 'Sir, You have well is deep; where then do You You are not greater than our us the well, and drank of it cattle?' 'Everyone who drinks of this whoever drinks of the water that thirst; but the water that I a well of water springing up The woman said to Him, 'Sir, not be thirsty nor come all the This is one of the most of people who are hopeless and turn. There's nothing good about it. And I want you to look at this hopelessness is all about; and life when they become hopeless. Sometimes people are hopeless Because the way they've lived; made. And then sometimes it's not And so, when I think about this little description of her. Number one, she'd been married in an adulterous situation, was living with at that And, of course, having been suffered a lot of difficulty and men or they would have still She must have been a pretty attracted five men. And so there she was. And one of the problems though rejection from the community. To have been married five times the talk of the community. There was nothing they could say What kind of woman is this who divorced and now she decided not even be married to him. And so she seems to have been sexual desire to have her needs needs. She was emotionally empty. To be married five times, So she was empty; and seemingly these lovers of hers. And so she felt very morally You ever felt that-a-way? Am I talking to somebody who That because of decisions that feel dirty spiritually. You feel dirty emotionally. You could be in a situation just You've tried it all and nothing You've been there and it didn't You've been loved by this one by this one and hated by the and nothing satisfied you. You don't have anywhere to go. All of your goals and dreams truth is, you don't have At this point in your life, your your rebellion, you turned off So where are you in life? You're lost. It's dark, dingy, dismal; and It's like being in a swamp There's nothing there that is And so you've sort of given up. But given up to what? Given up, why? And given up when. Those are the things you have to And I think there are many women This is the reason some people They can't see any hope of doing At least in prison you could At least in prison, you've got eat and you can even watch TV. There are a lot of people who And we're living in a time when And this is why they cross This is why they do anything to help. And yet even that doesn't work. And so this is where she was at And then a personal encounter changed her life. And it's radically changing And so when you think about who her life at this particular to draw water for the day, but was not the right time. But she came at noontime because around her, they ostracized her, to try to be there when So in the middle of the day, And strangely, this man is He sent His disciples into town And looking at Him and knowing Samaritan, she was shocked when water. And her response was, What do water? You're a Jew; I'm a Samaritan. Jews and Samaritans do not have And You certainly wouldn't You. And Jesus in His quiet and with her. And, all of a sudden, she coming down within her; because First of all, she was talking to That in itself was enough. The fact that He was a Jew and those barriers were coming down. She couldn't tell you why. She just knew that there was attracted her that had nothing attracted her, something And she began to listen. And, &quot;Jesus said to her, 'Give started the conversation. And, He said to her, He said, give you a drink of living And so, Jesus began to talk with so Jesus distinguished between water that He was talking about. And so she enthusiastically And so, when He had described 'Sir,'&quot; listen to that, she--how this water, I will not be here again.&quot; And then Jesus, &quot;Said to her,&quot; conversation because everything was talking about living water &quot;said, 'Call your husband,'&quot; oh terrible. And so, &quot;Call your husband,&quot; and She said, I don't have a He said, watch this, You're But you have had five. And you're living with a man now But watch how He said that. He did not condemn her. He said, You're right; you don't one who is not your husband. Notice how Jesus changed that Not by criticizing her, but by And so what He's doing, He's is emotionally, where she is spiritually. Now, what she did is what a lot When you start talking to them they want to change the subject. So if you'll notice what happens said, 'Sir, I perceive that You And then she said, &quot;Our fathers you people say that,&quot; and she She wanted to start talking to talk about that. He did give her a little He said, I want to tell you My water is, He said, My water And she said--He said here, that I will give him shall never I will give him will become in in eternal life. Springing up into eternal life. 'Sir, give me this water,' water, but springing, this water And He had her attention, And as they began to talk and He talk God, &quot;God is spirit, and worship Him in spirit and And, and so then He comes back, that Messiah is coming, He who comes, He will declare all said to her, 'I,'&quot; am the one I am the Messiah. Can you imagine what she must First of all, she wanted to--she because He was a Jew. And in this conversation, loved her and waited for her to &quot;He said to her, 'I who speak to And about this time the And they come back and they're to this woman, and which no be talking to one, and Of all people, they--He wouldn't But it's interesting what the say to Him, What are You doing Or why do You speak to this So in the process, the scripture her waterpot.&quot; Now the Bible is so perfect used because it's interesting left it. She was no longer interested in He had done something to her had never felt before because quickly. She accepted Him so quickly He didn't condemn her. A Jew would have. He did not criticize her. He saw something within her that Him. For some strange reason she felt For some strange reason, she saw never seen in a man before. All of a sudden she felt love And so, when His disciples came, off running. And where did she go? She went to the one place that She went to the very people who criticized her, shunned her, And notice what the scripture &quot;From the city many of the because of the word of the woman things that I have done.' Jesus, they were asking Him to there two days. Many more believed because of to the woman, 'It is no longer believe, for we have heard our One is indeed the Savior of the When I think about this evangelist. I mean she went from the lowest She was the one who announced to She's the first one who knew of And so when she went back, you rejected her like you say they accepted? I'll tell you why. Because they'd seen this woman despair and discouragement and When she came to the city, She was excited. And she was full of life. And she walked in like she was rejected. Why? Because God had absolutely Jesus had saved her when she the Messiah, she accepted Him as didn't go home. She did what she should have She was so absolutely the first thing she wanted to do I mean, all those women who had men who had used her; everybody what did she do? She, she wanted them to know changed her life and she could Are you one of those persons Nobody cares; nobody's You've had all kind of You've had all kind of things people, but somehow there's Well the same thing that's thing missing in her life. Until you are willing to receive Savior, listen carefully, you same old wells of sex, alcohol, on and we could go of things And here's the problem. All of those things are like When you are thirsty, you don't Why? Because it makes you more And this is why people get mentioned, and many different They think, Well, if I get No, you can't get enough money, You can't get enough recognition You can't get enough of any of of what God created you for and children. Because you see, God created You He created you for Himself and world to pay your sin debt in the person God intended you to all of your sins. He could give you a sense of He could give you a sense of He could give you a sense of He could give you a sense of security. Only Jesus Christ can do that. It doesn't make any difference and how down you may feel, if Lord Jesus, Jesus, I'm asking And I believe that You went to Your blood at Calvary, You paid Thank You, Lord, that You can And I'm trusting You to forgive And I'm receiving You as my That's just like being in a a whole bucket of ice water and You'll never be the same again. And that's my prayer for you. And Father, how grateful we are You desire to save us. You don't forgive us a part of Not in part, but the whole as we We feel helpless, but You know And we pray today in the name of who hears this message who's themselves in all kind of would trust You as their By simply asking You to forgive surrendering their life to You. And making a missionary, Father, testimony. And this we pray in Jesus' name, If you're one of those persons are, you can stop right where If you're home by yourself, somewhere or in some palatial one thing your heart desires, If you're willing to ask Jesus doesn't make any difference how you are, He pulls you out. You don't have to beg; you don't promise; you just ask Him and announcer: If you've been please visit us at INTOUCH.org. announcer: Leading people relationship with Jesus Christ church. &quot;In Touch with Dr. Charles of In Touch Ministries. This program is made possible by faithful prayers and gifts.