LEGO dinosaurs are awesome, so today and future by building this dino As of now, this Series 24 minifigure is Even if he's just a dude in a costume. but I really like this guy's pattering and the this abomination was one of the oldest LEGO Between this and this, LEGO's made hundreds of creating a world where they can all coexist, who the comments named NOT "Rex" I'm sorry! I think the name "Diego" suits I started to lay out a footprint, "yeah that's the house. The walls are going to be solid stone and it's the only material Diego a bunch of different slopes in light gray, up the sides. This chunk of the wall kept as a table instead, complete with chair. But anyways back to the walls, where cover up with some animal skins. Diego turned snazzy sheets for his stone bed. "Where's all Well, Diego is actually a dinosaur hunter in getting all the meat and skins they need to on this handy little rack, and even turned this with the dinos whenever he catches a ride across we still need to actually build, so right now the dinos from the early 2000s are fascinating to look no prints, limited moving parts, and these Diego's just gonna take care of them real something strange happened... an orange Garret had escaped the farmers market in a time times. Good thing he's dressed as a plant, because Diego barely rescued Garret from becoming his tribe. These neanderthals were that would one day become 24-Ville, to. So he thanked Diego and headed Well, apparently that pterodactyl has been call it Pterry the Pterror (the "P" is silent, nest high up on the cliffside. I had fun building big ol' egg that fits right in there. But with no the past for now, so the tribe welcomed him as stay at his house, once we finish building and a chimney that you can... sort of remove, and attach bones to that we can use as decorations. out and a T-REX SKULL on top, sort of like how it acts as a sort of handle to remove the roof by Diego's pet Ankylosaurus named "Spike". He which didn't end well because Spike loves to steal He's just gonna hide himself while I make a and their son Jaroot (puberty hit earlier back that doesn't want to kill them like poultry sort of barn-shaped with this really cool stone obviously open, and this side wall actually opens long trying to get this thing to work, but the not open because they don't want the livestock velociraptors sort of like prehistoric chickens, lay eggs and stuff. No, Spike! Don't bury tha- is where they would put their crops--if they had farming anything in their garden, even with this Garret was able to help the family plant started selling them to the rest of the But Diego felt like he was being replaced. not them! So he asked Mumbo Jumbo, the barn that the family may never sell another Jumbo from Banjo-Kazooie by the way, and I the game. Luckily I have this piece from an singular brick--that made it super easy to build. and even though we don't have room inside to sign design he has and hid 5 stone skulls in the find them all, Mumbo will release a music But anyways, in exchange for making that curse, sacrifice in the soon-to-be-built volcano. I created a skeleton, and stacked up hundreds of the lava, we'll take a lil bit of this, lil be really cool to try someday. But for now pieces to create the bubbling streams of magma but Mumbo Jumbo thinks the volcano's gonna erupt it a dinosaur to appease it--or...someone dressed better get going! Now that all the plants and dinosaurs started appearing! And seeing them all showed off classic LEGO dinos earlier, but these World trilogy sets are so much more detailed than come in a lot more species which I'm going to try velociraptor, pyroraptor, pterodactyl, tyrannosaurus, carnotaurus, ankylosaurus, That's a lot of syllables. But this time Diego to avoid taking a lava bath, he needed some Garret grew a beard from all that anxiety, And it seems Unga and Bunga might be able to factory called "OOGA". You know I don't I mean smokestacks on top? A removable wall used to assemble something he called "Stoney" But hopefully they can help Garret get back like... the wheel. No. FIRE. Nope, but we can add Chief Grock and Grooda, sit on their "thrones" What if we invent the subscribe button? No, but I don't think that will work. Or sliced bread. a staircase? That could help them get up the cliff they set a few up and made it to the top! So I a waterfall, a tiny lil hut for Grug, and before he left, except it was all a trap set by They carried Garret up the stairs forgetting all about PTERRY! It snatched up Diego the time machine instead! That is not good. We've but it started creating some very cursed dinos ninjasaurus--so it's like a ninja, but so basically it should have eight legs and Swedish Chef riding it" "The rizzasaurus rex--it's but not as scary as the final boss: one of my favorite childhood characters, The monstrosities started terrorizing eating their livestock, and stealing their women. slip away and continue his plan to feed Garret until Diego swooped in to save the and the three of them harnessed the power of the battle montage* Then everyone yeeted them into the everything up Diego was redeemed as the hero massive project, leave your PTERRY comments below,