Hi guys! Today we start a series of videos which statistically makes up about half of all series, you can easily become a twice-as-safe to the channel and click the bell button First on our list today is a poor line through our rider decides to tickle his adrenaline approaches a corner, he is not 100% confident if wants this corner to be done as soon as possible opportunity. In other words, he turns his bike bike suddenly starts to go wider and wider until Why does this happen? How exactly does entering understand this, let's take a look at a real the importance of a correct line in numbers. And and every corner. We're going to do it just once who knows, maybe the difference between line is like 1 km/h, so why even bother? a satellite view of a corner on the road in this road specifically is because we just location for this specific corner, so if you to make sure I am not just making stuff up. line. Let's just say our bike is here, which the straight line, we brake and turn the bike. around the corner is the best? A beginner through the inner side of the turn. It feels to be well inside, far from the oncoming lane. corner. This means we have to go through At what speed can we go through it? Best-case optimal weather conditions, good tires with the and most importantly, a good rider skill level, of cornering force from our bike. And for elevation change of the corner. we can go through the inner side of the If instead we choose to go through the outer side we will instead go through a radius now take at 66.5 km/h or 41.3 mph. is take another route, a perfect geometric line, at a point called the turn-in point, touches and ends on the outer side again, at the If we follow this arc with a radius of 32.6 m or as people called it in the 17th century, 43.8 mph. slowest possible lines so far is 9.5 km/h or first glance. But if we look at the formula for force produced by our tires in our case, we can has a much bigger impact on our cornering of our bike. That means if we take the inner we can take our ideal line at the exact same force instead of 1.2 g, which is 25% less. easily gives us 25%, a whole quarter But, the line giveth and the line taketh away. screw up our day. The perfect geometric line take this corner specifically 10 times or so It's essentially what people do on a track. A which you repeat and repeat lap after lap, you can't do it with every corner on the road, So, in our example, what happens if our rider 8 meters (26 ft) earlier? At first, things seem to gentler arc of 37 m (121 ft), which we can take we can suddenly see that if we keep going through even past it. Coincidentally, we even have to go head-on into a van, so somewhere at our curve from a 37 m radius to 21 m. Best-case or 35 mph. If we were going this speed or lower and make this tight radius successfully. If first. And if we were going too fast, or we we are going to rendezvous with this van here. example. Our rider turns in just a little too his bike is now going wide. He tries to reduce off the road. He could theoretically recover applying more brakes, but hey, in an emergency to do. And he was not going terribly fast chain of events, was a too-early turn-in point. how can we avoid it? Which line should we go through this corner a dozen times and learn an early apex line because it makes our bike so-called late-apex line. It's the polar opposite Let's return to our example. Here is our perfect (26 ft) later. Now, initially, we have to turn at of up to 64 km/h or 40 mph. It's a bit slower big problem because we're braking on a straight any amount we want. After that, somewhere around and not only do we not need to tighten our turn, m radius arc, so we can either straighten our bike As you can see, with this late-apex line, you have the slowest part of the corner straight line. With an early-apex line, you have before it while your bike is leaning, which Now that we have established that the late the only thing left for us to do is to generalize some corner we already know, but for any corner we do our braking before the turn in a straight line, the corner until we see the exit. When we see corner if we want or just straighten the bike. wide, this approach has even more benefits. a corner, especially a blind one. Here is an inner side and one on the outer side of the same can see by just moving our bike inside one lane. we can spot any hazards and react to them earlier, discuss our vision and mid-corner hazards in job of learning how our line through a corner can So, guys, remember to subscribe to the Road" course for advanced riders, have