In this how to waterproof your hair, how to finally get it Despite humid, I'm going to be showing you that I often see people make that leaves their hair And on the other half, all of my waterproofing hacks. Then we're going to do and we're going to steam both sides Let's go. The first mistake that I see is not using good products I know that a lot of people because they say I have been in where my clients have told me and not use hair sprays And this really is If you've had bad experiences it is likely because you're using the wrong products or you're using the wrong products not using products in your hair is like having double D's refusing to wear a bra and wanting It's not going to happen You need support. Hair products are to hair its support on half my head. I am using nothing and on Color Wow Dream Coat This product is described It is specifically made to be an anti frizz treatment If you want to use another product you absolutely can just keep that There are a million products So when we choose one, based on the effect You shouldn't have one hair product Your products really do depending on the and even in the climate with on that particular day. So this is Chris Appleton's product a little mini keratin treatment So everything that I read on the hair. This is not So as you can see, I air dried I dread the whole thing, this one and we can just go in with this dreamcoat and this is that if you are in very humid weather, it's probably because it has like a special like a shield on your hair In mistake number two, it's If you rough dry your hair or let it air dry it will not look nearly as good nearly Your hair's cuticle layer So that outermost layer of the hair, and you want to push those shingles down This is what's going to make your hair look super shiny, last and humidity A lot of people think that they should air dry and then I completely disagree with this. You will be able to use so much if you blow your hair out first A great blow dryer really is so important to partner with my favorite TYMO If you guys been here for a while, you know that I use them in every styling video. I use them on myself. I use them on all my clients. I love how affordable they are, how good the quality is, In today's video, I want to show This is such a cute little light at such an incredible price point Before I want to talk to the features of this blow dryer So you turn it on with this button, The middle setting is on and the very top setting which is amazing because it's right We're good to go, but then you actually control I love this so much. So when you control the speed in the heat, this part right here So you can see that Then we have low, medium and high. And then from. There we can also adjust this medium high. So cool, right? So this is like and it's very intuitive. And the reason so much is if you have a finer hair like me or you don't have as defined of a curl pattern you totally can do that and you can You can go high in air It's so intuitive. That's honestly my favorite part I also really love that It's like one seventh the price but it's just as good. It really does feel super high end. And there is a magnetic attachment here You can also buy and I'll show you that in a second as a bonus for being a part I'm going to be giving one of these Giveaway. so in the comments section, I want you guys to tell me what you look for a blow dryer. Do you look for something like this? Or do you look for something What is it that you look for And why? Why is that feature Let me know in the comments You'll be entered in the giveaway. In two weeks from today winner in my community board. There's a lot of scamming going around on YouTube, If you get a message from me asking you to message me on telegram That is absolutely a scam. But you will see your name posted If you win, then you just have to send me and I will send it over to you When there's giveaways, you should So if you win, you will get this And I hope that you love it and I'm sure you will, because it cute? It's a sexy What you want to do in the blow dryer so that the nozzle is directing If you have very curly hair and you tend to get a lot of kink then you can also get And this is a great preliminary or stretch your curls out Now, in terms of the brush that you should use, I did an entire video and which hair type If you want to learn I will leave a pinned comment I decided to Now you can see the difference Okay, and blowing your hair out All right. I just went in there. I is a great product that cuticle layer down, Now, mistake number three is not That last flat iron step really I know that sometimes we avoid it the volume if you avoid it, flatten just lower your heat way, way down. Do one pass on a very low heat setting in place without sandwiching See, as you can see, this heat It really is so minimally hot. Like, look, but it really does work extra little bit of shine Do you see that? Here's my end result. Now here is this side. Now, the reason that this side very important reasons. For one, I didn't smooth the cuticle it feels really rough to the touch. I also didn't use any product. It pains me. It hurts my soul to flatten my hair because product is heat protection The color wow is a heat protector. So I'm going to do it anyways because I know a lot of and I really need But just know keep this in mind that subscribe button I'm just kidding. But do subscribe, please. So at that same heat setting, I can't use that heat setting in order to straighten because that cuticle layer isn't Right. So even though I didn't use that it did enough when it's in the wet stage, it's When hair is dry, You really have to work harder more of the things. That's why to blow dry If you want your style to last. If you don't, you're just not going to get the style It's going to want to revert back to its original state But you're also just going to end So you're doing more damage. I get the notion it will lead to less damage. I understand why people think that, So let's amp it Oh, I'm going to 400 or else this is not going to become smooth to show you So let's remind ourselves is the side done on my left side that I normally wouldn't do that Most of you probably do this. And now let's run a very hot shower for like 10 minutes together It is Misty to put your mind into, Oh my God, you can already feel my face getting like, sticky, you know, let's Oh, we can already see some. frizzies popping up can't we. Okay, here we go the side. is looking frizzy this side. It is a little bit flatten, but the frizz So I was in there for 10 minutes Look at how shiny my face is. But I think this visual is I mean, it's not like It's not. There's some little frizzies and everything because it was super, I cranked it up to the max like that I stand there for ten full minutes, but this side is like We have massive amounts of frizz. It's kind of reverted back exact that it air dried in right my hair does not air dry and use products But if I brush my hair out dry, it air dries like a fuzzball. So I air dried it. I got it to look But the second that that humidity because there was no support from the cuticle layer the ceiling of the blow dryer, That's why it is really Use good products, in a high, humid environment because really your hair wants to go back you know, I want to go back to that. Thank you guys for watching. If you want more information I will leave all of that This video was over.