NARRATOR: The apocalypse... ..when an entire people... ..are destroyed. Or destroy themselves. The end of civilisation. For us today, it's barely something we consider. We're so sure But for some civilisations... ..it already has. Since the dawn of human history... ..we have told each other stories About its power over life... ..and death. In the 'Torah', the 'Qur'an', and the 'Bible' is the story of the great flood. When Noah built an ark, as the sea flooded the land, Societies all across the world of lands that have been lost People have done something wrong, Or the story of the lost city told by the great Greek philosopher, The utopian island that people beneath the waves. Right across the world there is a flood story. A story where water Across our planet of the sea rising up But what if these stories Scientists now claim at the bottom of the sea... ..called Doggerland. It existed about 10,000 years ago, and was a place for its stone age inhabitants. It's a rich place, Where you had wild fowl where fish in the rivers where you had all the animals and also all the resources. Flints, and wood, Doggerland's temperate climate would have made this a beautiful for its hunter-gatherer population. Plants and animals Hazel, ash, pine, large game. Horse, bison, Doggerland sounds like paradise. But this world no longer exists, what exactly happened Our search begins in the north sea. This sea was created about 15,000 years ago. As the ice melted and receded, it created the North Sea northern Europe, and the UK. Its power and hidden depths have ..and it has also, provided humans with a staple food. Fish. From the east coast the British have for generations 100 miles north east of London, And in September 1931, a vessel was trawling... ..near the Leeman &amp;amp; Ower Banks. It was captained About 25 miles out and he trawls the ocean for fish. As he lifted them up among the sort of shining fish is a massive It's a big like, boulder, not of rock, but of mud. He and his men start breaking it up As he puts his shovel in and he's like, &quot;That's really weird, So he digs through it, and on it is a load of ridges so it's sort of almost like a barb, and it's got little grooves So presumably this is some sort of or hook or something. He prised away and found Intrigued, you don't find he brought it home. Lockwood had found an implement made out of the bone About 15cm in length, and with a serrated side so it could be used to harpoon prey. But how on earth did it get there? Because it's in a load of mud What was the harpoon doing Who made it and when? Our story now moves Here, in 1932, works a young, called Grahame Clark. Clark would go on greatest archaeologists, seen here winning the Erasmus prize Grahame Clark he wants to make a name for himself and he's decided to study that hasn't really been which is the Mesolithic, Clark was fascinated by the period from about 10,000 to 4,000 years Clark believed was similar to those used in Scandinavia But this creates a greater mystery. Mesolithic hunter-gatherers and had fishing boats. But what were they doing The first step for Clark was to identify that the harpoon Today, scientists rely on a process This involves measuring the decay ..and comparing that to levels of But without this complex, ..how would Clark date the harpoon? To try and solve this, Clark turned to his friends Harry and Margaret Godwin. The Godwins were a and they were from same time as Grahame Clark, the study of plants things like pollen. Harry and Margaret Godwin that relied not on the decay but instead used ancient pollen. The Godwins might not be able ..but they could date the peat through pollen analysis. They specifically went out and trawled up very, very close to where and actually analysed it. What the Godwins found would change the way the seabed It was showing things Pine trees, alder, You know, this wasn't a block that had come from an estuary, this was a part of a landscape with all the things that we would These were plants which so what on earth are they doing What the Godwins now had to do these types of tree and pollen Working with other scientists they had built up a list ..based on pollen found The results are as Clark predicted. The pollen in the peat dates to the Mesolithic age. This proves the harpoon But what Clark still can't answer is how did the harpoon Could the peat, pollen and harpoon really have been washed out Clark created a map showing pollen And he wondered ..now hidden under the North Sea... ..that had once linked A land that could have been ..by Mesolithic hunter-gatherers. As it turned out... ..Clark wasn't the first to come up In the early years ..the botanist Clement Reid, used to walk the beaches in England. As a botanist, he was fascinated and where they had originally Clement Reid became obsessed What it is, is when the tide you can see tree stumps, Loads of people at the time 'cause they thought remnants of Noah's flood. But Clement Reid didn't think so Clement Reid and decided to investigate. Reid dug beneath the coastlines, to see what he could find. He asked the question, &quot;living in these areas From his finds, he published in a book called It suggested that somewhere A landmass that could support Reid suggested connecting all of northern Europe, with its heart at somewhere called Clement Reid called 'Submerged Forest', where he theorises linking the UK He had so little evidence nevertheless, this was a book His main issue was that nobody was really obsessed Reid's was a pretty unusual idea, without much evidence to support it and his work was derided Reid's work was seen as and was all but forgotten In the 1990s, professor Bryony Coles At the time oil exploration in the North Sea allowing unexpected avenues There was the geological surveys coming from things like of that period. I began to draw together and the archaeological evidence that this was a terrain that had that these were things Professor Coles used numerous maps, including the ones made by to estimate how the ice caps melted and what land masses I realised quite soon showing the changes at intervals, because things were changing and it might take thousands of years Coles work suggested that in the there might actually have been But would anyone accept When I was doing the mapping I realised that it would be the land that used to be under but to give it a name of its own. To get across the idea that it had but a living, live, Based on the name Coles called this new land mass And that's really important, because as it becomes a place not just in reality, but also in the imagination. And Coles went on. She posited the theory about the existence of a lost but it meant something It was a huge area with rivers, with areas of high ground, and low lying areas that are now but then would have been absolutely at the heart of the post-glacial So if this was a landscape, was there evidence to suggest that Across the North Sea, a few hundred miles for Norfolk, There, beach combers Coins, bones, ..anything unusual (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) The beach combers coordinate ..a specialist archaeologist from They work with Dr Amkreutz because Zandmotor beach I'm sitting here on Zandmotor beach, it's a beach by spraying a whole lot of sand on this beach plane. It as constructed out of materials 11km off shore, Material dredged close to where Lockwood What was so special is that all kinds of objects Wow. They would eat bones of animals for instance, the ice ages. Like woolly mammoth Most astonishing of all is that but amongst these there were also hundreds of artefacts and even by neanderthals, given that they come from Over the years, beach combers have found more than including tools, bone fish hooks... ..and even human remains that Zandmotor, and certain other areas, really brought home the enormity in front of our coast. We have this whole range of organic and is actually basically carpenter's tool set. And it really brought home a whole people landscape The more touching finds are not just the artefacts, And one story I find particularly this person was about 40 years You're not just looking or you're not just looking but you're looking at And Luc's group are not the only Since the 1970s, have made findings on the coasts Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and the UK. Under the North Sea there are signs ..of not just animals, But the question remains... ..who were they In 2005, centred at the University ..wanted to see exactly what But they knew The area obviously It's obviously underwater between, you know, five and 30m down to 60, 80 in others. Obviously that water is very cold, It's very powerful currents The other thing, of course, was the technologies, hadn't been developed in some cases, There was no way that archaeologists in these dangerous waters. It was beyond their and would have cost hundreds It looked like Doggerland would remain forever a subject unproven by scientific fact. But at a yearly symposium, Simon Fitch, had an unusual idea. As I was sitting there I realised that actually you know, seismic data and that data possibly it could actually be used to see the landscape. In the early 2000s, the North Sea was going through Billions of Euros' worth of oil using new technology. If the Bradford team could access then maybe they could see and whether there was evidence The Bradford team approached to access their specialist Surveyors for oil and gas surveying the North Sea to pull together a series This was a huge swathe of land, tens of thousands What the Bradford team was the data for 3D seismic maps. These are created dragging thousands called hydrophones They listen to sound waves bouncing off whatever lies The resulting data shows where, there may be deposits of oil or gas Seismic mapping is a really good way of a large amount Mapping the sea bed in the same way when we're doing sonograms, and you use the sonar pulses, and you get the shape But would this help Could the data help build now hidden under the sea bed? Having waited some months the team finally got the data They inputted it into a computer... ..they waited for So we plugged that in, and up popped this remarkable image. We could actually see a river when the Mesolithic people on top of Dogger Bank. It was a phenomenal almost like You know, you felt which no one had ever seen before. I think that was when and we realised the implications and was providing a doorway it was just a phenomenal realisation that all those questions could be answered. It was just as Bryony Coles A hidden world of rivers, We could map features We've seen rivers, we've seen lakes, we've seen everything in a landscape except this is under the sea and it's caches of material waiting for us to go and find it. The Bradford team had seen ..but the mapping still What happened to the peoples To understand that how the people might have lived. Human evolution by geography and climate. So the first thing to establish is roughly what kind of climate This is done by looking at geographically at the time. We know that immediately after it was frozen, but then very rapidly started and that enabled new species Doggerland would have grown that we would recognise now. The winters were shorter and the summers were longer And plants start to colonise A lot of the species so hazel, ash, oak, willow. Animals start to colonise, So you get herds of horse, But the question remained, could Doggerland And if so, what would those people A clue comes from Yorkshire In 1948, Grahame Clark, the archaeologist from the North Sea, was told of a discovery at a place called Star Carr. 10,000 years ago it was on the edge Because of the nature and the waterlogging it means that there's been at Star Carr. For the next three years, and his team uncovered Mesolithic settlements in Europe. So we have organic remains, There are harpoon points beautifully crafted By looking at Star Carr today of what lives the people The site has been further excavated I think it's very easy and think back 11,000 years, and that people must have lived But the evidence is that they were very good at crafting things. Star Carr shows many tools and made to kill animals, similar to the harpoon We have all sorts of animal remains, which shows us the types of animals and their expertise in gathering They're hunter-gatherers, they're armed with a whole range that means that they can thrive At Star Carr is also what's known as dating from about 9,000 years ago. So we found a number of houses which are the earliest known houses so that told us that people were able to build structures We understand more about and how sophisticated and that they could make structures, Mesolithic people, it appears, they were highly mobile, but they were also living together If we're now thinking about people who have places that they regularly that they invest their resources in no longer could we write knuckle-dragging, cave dwellers eking away a living These were people One of the most unusual finds was shaped from the skulls One of the most iconic from Star Carr and they've been shaped and hours, and hours of labour. The head dresses There are none others and only a few They're made of red deer skulls There are two main theories, one is that they might have been in hunting practices, and the other is that they might in some kind of ritual practices. The headdresses offer that these people to create these artefacts but clearly have a very important Star Carr helps build a picture of how sophisticated people But who were these people? What did they look like? To see what a Mesolithic person we must travel ..and the Cheddar Gorge. It was here that one of Cheddar Man, was found. Cheddar Man is one of the really in this country. Cheddar Man was found and has been studied because human remains particularly in this country Cheddar Man is the oldest British, most complete human skeleton It dates to around And in 2018, a groundbreaking analysis in an attempt for us to meet It gives us an insight and what we know from Cheddar Man from the DNA we know he had dark, and darker skin than we imagined, certainly darker than European skin So although he looks he would have looked Now we could finally see the faces that would have lived at Star Carr Despite living thousands it helps us understand ..but it still doesn't answer how did people who made Doggerland To understand better the Bradford team decided They did this If you take a giant pipe, and then you pull it out, the column of mud that you pull out, So when you look at a core, what you're effectively looking at it's like a diary of the deep past. They are hugely important of how our climate has changed, and environmental conditions and they're also crucial to our of Doggerland What the Bradford team saw is how. With the end of the Ice Age the sea level was rising Those sediments preserve in them So at one particular site it will show the history through to the era and eventually being submerged. But the team noticed that the sea levels seemed to rise If you look at the cores when you get to 8,000 years ago But what caused this huge change? And what effect did it have Around 8,000 years ago there is what meaning 8,200 years from today, or roughly 6,250 BCE... ..scientists noticed rose dramatically. One explanation for this change after the ice age... ..came the collapse of a colossal The Laurentide Ice Sheet, in what is present day At its peak, the Laurentide and a fair proportion of the top Ice was over what is now New York, This was millions, and millions, locked up in ice. This was the biggest release into the North Atlantic So profound was this change that by a degree almost overnight, which changed the air temperatures by up to 1.5 degrees centigrade As the melt water filled the oceans, global sea levels rose by as much as threatening lowlands All the reasons that made Doggerland a fantastic place to live also made it particularly vulnerable It was low lying, it was cut through and marshy areas, and fowling, and gathering but it also meant that it would be inundated, The sea level rise was so pronounced that it turned Doggerland Doggerland would now from continental Europe and the UK. So what did this mean After the 8.2 event the sea levels that it was easily easily within peoples' lifetimes. They could easily see These people of the landscape around them, and for that to start changing must have been extraordinarily What would have been suddenly became flood valleys. Huge swathes of low lying land would have been lost and that destroys the animals that destroys the plants And so when all this changes, this puts huge pressure and it would have been scary The hunter-gatherer paradise was slowly sinking So what could Mesolithic people do? If you're a Mesolithic person and your land gets flooded Well you obviously, you know, follow the herds, that's you know, so you're going to do that. 'Cause some of them and what is now mainland Europe. Some of the people into other parts of today's Europe, like Germany and Netherlands, From the archaeological evidence we have a number It's exactly at this point, that we start to get for the use of dug out canoes Hunter-gatherers and maybe even people to being much more sea dwelling. But the question remained... ..what happened to the people As the Bradford team looked further they found something They found what might be the key In a time period around 6000 BCE the core samples It was a series of sand, shell, jumbled up with sequences so different to everything else except for the few samples which were tsunami samples. This mixing up of sediment A great wave of power... ..a tsunami. But what could have caused The team connects to an event called when vast areas of the Norwegian The Storegga Slide was a huge that occurred The slide itself deposited from the glacial era, so it's a lot of fine muds and within it there are lots this are layers that can't really so they're very prone to slipping. So any trigger, like an earthquake, is enough to set this sediment And as it does so, 'cause it will disturb A tsunami would have been and is something that our in both 2011 in Japan... ..and across Asia in 2004. You can see here almost the entire globe. So what effect have had on Doggerland? Dr Jon Hill recreated how the tsunami in a series of computer simulations. The Storegga Slide involved and it probably moved So this huge slide, which is probably in the history of the Earth, generated a huge tsunami which then travelled across and then down the North Sea impacting the coast of the UK. In this scientifically the remaining islands of Doggerland are repeatedly washed over The core samples also suggested was critical for people So one of the things is our ability to pinpoint the time So we do this that have been deposited, and in them we find like mosses and cherry stones, where we know that they would have and hence we can find out that the Storegga Slide It is believed that went inland to hunt deer, but in the autumn, they returned to the shoreline. The tsunami from the Storegga Slide when they were Doggerland would have been because it is so low lying. Even though it was about and perhaps 80km north to south, the average height was probably rather than tens of metres. So if you have a wave it is obviously going to inundate And if we look to modern events the average height there The wave inundated so if you think you would have seen something The coastline is exactly the majority of people. The tsunami would have laid waste hunting grounds disappearing. Whole societies in the space of a few hours. For Doggerland, covering most of the land Many of those Doggerland people along with their homes. From the archaeological record, the tsunami is the beginning if not the end of Doggerland. And large swathes of it and what remains would have been for some time. Death as a great wave Doggerland still occasionally from beneath the sea bed. In 2019, from the drowned land. But the Bradford team concluded that Doggerland, the land that connected would have sunk under the sea... ..ending all human life. The Storegga tsunami was a difficult but the land did recover. However, after that period, the landscape continued to shrink so the challenges increased And so really it's part Eventually people perhaps too difficult to live As of today, scientists are yet to find from the Doggerland area We don't find any human artefacts so there is absolutely nothing that dates from younger which just shows the devastation The tsunami's devastation Doggerland... ..a Mesolithic paradise animals, forests, and wetlands. A land that at one point is estimated to have stretched to Scandinavia and the UK, covering almost Hunter-gatherers of the time could have walked ..to Oslo... ..to London... ..to Paris. A region that in the space of was completely drowning everything An ancient apocalypse which echoes through the myths ..and still touches us today. The Bible. It's one of the most influential For millennia, it's shaped It holds stories Miraculous events. The word of God. Many people see them as parables But for some, these stories Of all the events the Bible one remains shocking even today - the destruction of Sodom. According to the Bible, Sodom was one of the five It was remarkable The tradition was what the Bible described Specifically homosexuality. But is this really true? In the Bible story, God appeared and told him his plan and the cities of the plain. For Abraham, His nephew Lot lived in Sodom. According to the Bible, Lot and his family were living in Sodom. They would be considered Abraham pleaded with God the innocent and guilty God assured Abraham that if just 10 decent people And devised a test of Sodom's The Bible says specifically that the sin of Sodom was And specifically to the poor and the needy. That it was inhospitality, this general unkindness that made Sodom an evil city. God sends two angels disguised who takes them in Lot passes God's But when the news of the spreads through Sodom, the city descends on Lot's house and demands he hands them over. Immediately all the neighbours saying, &quot;Send out these two men And in biblical terms, that usually means Lot says, &quot;Absolutely not, you &quot;They're virgins, you can do &quot;But you cannot At that point, God steps in and says, &quot;No, It's damning. The angels allow Lot and his but when they are gone, God levels the city with the It would've been WOMAN: God destroyed them in so terrible that no man The destruction was so complete that the city was abandoned It's a profound punishment God sends these two angels down to Sodom and the cities to test their hospitality, to see 'would they be and they failed that test. So it's less a story about and it's more a story Hospitality was so important Only after the rise in the first few did its Early Christian theologians shifted the story's focus away to create a morality tale But does the story of We ask the question did the city and could it be possible According to the ancient the Koran, and the Torah, Sodom was supposedly part of what's known as the five They were situated in a large region covering Lebanon, Syria and Israel. Of the five cities, and thus, the epicentre For centuries, archaeologists I think everybody loves whether it's Atlantis or Sodom, there's this treasure-hunter There's a confirming mythology, a way of confirming the But if the story of Sodom like some believe, where did it take place? And how could archaeologists Renowned biblical archaeologists Dr Thomas Schaub carry out surveys It is an ancient site Thomas Schaub and Walter Rast were actually very and academics in the field. Both had a keen interest and historical geography. Schaub was actually a priest and Walter Rast led many As the two break ground, four more sites nearby. Numeira, Safi, Feihfeh, For Schaub and Rast, could be a crucial indicator for The Bible says that Sodom was one of five cities And if four other cities were it increases the likelihood is the city of Sodom. The discovery of these five in close proximity And through excavations the archaeologists date the site This is significant this is when And during excavations, that not only was Bab edh-Dra but it was also once the location There were fortification walls Archaeologists were able Workshops. It would've been For Schaub and Rast, it's that Bab edh-Dra is Sodom. And when the archaeologists they make a crucial discovery. There is evidence The archaeologists discovered and also large piles of ash And the town walls At the second site, Numeira, Schaub and Rast But most astonishingly, archaeologists find The bodies were buried under So these were people who while they were still or while they Some experts believe that match the biblical description Through fire and brimstone. There is one camp who think are evidence of destruction and catastrophic fires. That we've found our target. The claim, that the southern could be the former city becomes known But had biblical Sodom Over the years, new which casts doubt on the theory. When excavations at the other three sites, archaeologists found that there were no occupational What they had found This is a place where And radiocarbon dating Bab edh-Dra and Numeira Cast further doubt These two cities were destroyed 2.5 centuries apart That's 250 years in between the destruction To match the biblical these sites should all have been They don't fit the time so yeah, to me, it's You don't need a third strike. The Southern Theory Did Sodom ever exist? If so, was it at all In 1996, archaeologist takes up the challenge. Having grown up in he has long been fascinated between the Bible I had sort of worlds in And it was hard to justify science and faith Joining Dr Collins is Dr Philip Silvia. An electrical engineer by trade, in more recent years, he's turned his focus I think Sodom is the epitome in of God's judgment It's the engineer in me. And the theologian in me understands there must of physical evidence showing us and that's what drives me. The more Dr Collins studied, that the Bible could provide And so when I look when I look at and it squares with reality, it squares with archaeology, and I can't find any way to then what For Dr Collins, the and the cities of the plain may not be south of the Dead Sea came about by accident in 1996. That summer, he is leading While planning and Numeira, something is amiss. In the Bible, he and his uncle Abraham At this time, the Bible places the settlements of Bethel North-west of the Dead Sea. From there, they can see The Bible says, &quot;saw the well water &quot;and went eastward and pitched According to Sodom is south-east 80km from Bethel and Ai. But if Abraham and Lot at Bethel and Ai, they wouldn't I got to the end of it &quot;I don't see anything &quot;that would locate &quot;but everything would locate it &quot;north and east How in the world be putting Sodom towards the because if they're reading what aren't we seeing Collins digs deeper His focus turns to identifying the correct location Genesis 13:10 says that Lot saw the plain of Jordan and that it was well watered So if you can find the plain After meticulous study, Collins of the plain of Jordan. In the Hebrew language, which means 'round'. In the case of land, it would of arable land. That is where we for Sodom Some archaeologists believe that has a flat, circular plain and is well watered If you are looking at a very you'll see a circular area, north of the Dead Sea. But for some, using the Bible as a geographical source should We need to be cautious with how We have to keep in mind it was another thousand years And then since it's passed through five, six, before it comes to us. So to put too much weight on If we treat Sodom as a crime scene, then We also have archaeological so we have to actually look at And each piece has to to really grasp Proponents of this are convinced somewhere could lie Further evidence may lie in the oldest surviving the Madaba Map. It dates from and is located in the Byzantine and Madaba, Jordan. We have to understand was the biggest ever in history and so this map was on for the singular purpose The map is incomplete but crucially, it features Along with Sodom, the Bible lists it as one of Zoar is significant the only city of the plain and it wasn't destroyed because it was the city to where Lot The map doesn't feature Sodom but it does feature something Partially intact depictions For Dr Collins, they're key I have a sneaking suspicion that those two on the north end of the Dead But if the missing piece where exactly is it? In 2005, Collins and his in search of hard evidence. And that was a little because I couldn't find done by anyone in and it really bothered me. I said, &quot;What I might gonna But then, at the American Center a breakthrough. As the team pore over maps they come across a book, 'The Antiquities of In it is a map in the Kikaar region north-east of the Dead Sea. The team put boots on the ground and begin a process hoping to identify And what did we find? Well, here was the problem. I was only looking for four or Some seem to be too small, or the wrong period. So we eliminated them. After a week of surveying, Tall el-Hammam. It's situated 13km northeast The Bible had told me the biggest Bronze Age city on the north-east Guess what? How in the world had people Why was it not on any map? After almost a decade of is Collins' prime suspect I was walking down and I grabbed a handful and sort of let it run down And I said, &quot;Someday you're But to reveal the truth behind he needs to start digging. On December 27, 2005, Initial findings spanning an area of It's much larger than any other I was surprised - I think mostly To me it was just With the site larger than anyone Collins recruits world-renowned Dr Leen Ritmeyer I got a phone call from and he said, &quot;Would &quot;and see my new &quot;I believe I found Sodom.&quot; I said, &quot;Sodom? You must be He said, &quot;Just come and have a This is site and the impressed me very much. And so I was really interested in the site from an During the first few the team unearth And up to 12m high. They also found and at least two plazas and All dating to when Sodom is believed The middle Bronze Age fortifications We estimate took somewhere between 40 and It was obviously a highly who could put such a project I've worked on many To have never seen such a huge site About six times as big Crucially, the team discover Ranging from half a metre Evidence that Tall el-Hammam And they're convinced in the middle Bronze Age. Mixed in with that ash that we can identify with The evidence indicates the site And as Dr Silvia a picture of a great Among the ruins, they felt find that workers used It's called a saddle quern because you would like you were riding run your grinder back and forth But for Dr Silvia, the position doesn't make any sense. It was literally blown off of onto its side on the ground in a north-easterly direction. The team are intrigued by how could have been blown over. And it's not the only object. Across the site they uncover that landed in the seemingly pushed You find bits and Everything you can imagine strewn for six, across the floor So everything has this Everything inside there is and pottery And everything about it The team has uncovered evidence hitting Tall el-Hammam. Dr Collins calls it the Middle What could've caused it? In 2011, the team We start finding human bones, piece of a pelvis, Piece of a femur. One of them was only existing Everything else is missing. And the place where is severely burned, it's almost like They appear to have been bodily one of the very thick walls and then fell to the ground and were covered in ash These were not lovingly placed These were people by some sort of violent event. In another section, that the inhabitants were In the Middle Bronze Palace We have no lower jaw bones One we have the entire skull One has a piece of next to the fragments They are literally For Collins, the location We are 8m down in the destruction matrix. There is no doubt, zero doubt that these two individuals, these two skulls' fragments belong to the Middle Bronze The body is just not designed to stand up to that and it's both shocking, but on the other hand, as a scientist, The team believes they are what destroyed this city. But so far, nothing conclusive which tells them this might be But the more they excavate, that they are dealing Along the outside of the city, they uncover the foundations A 3m-thick wall. We asked them to dig a bit and I found the beginning of same type of bricks. And as the other one was 3m But then it clicked to me, extending out Dr Ritmeyer and the team have of a colossal gateway complex. 21m wide, and 14m high with towers on either side The Tall el-Hammam Team are gradually unearthing the spanning an area with an estimated population It had all the features of With its palaces, its temples, its streets, its massive its satellite towns, its that it could It had everything And this is what and this is what If fits the geographical clues it fits the timeframe in terms To me, I don't see what other But if they want to convince that Tall el-Hammam then their work I have to say the site It's the interpretation of the So much more work needs before we can understand The site in context But also, what destroyed it. Whether or not Tall el-Hammam but what's clear is there once existed a in this area. In Tall el-Hammam, we got a very definite Then you got the lower city The lower city where the and you had the upper city which had its own It was a totally secluded area used by the King to have his Artifacts found throughout helped the team decipher how Most of the houses And the houses themselves are You've got quite built around They had an awning overhead and where they roasted or chickens and the women All that took place That was the kind We have a city that lasts for Things are pretty much like a well-oiled machine. But then, according to the somewhere around 1700 BCE, during the Middle Bronze Age, the city of Tall el-Hammam What was behind its Could the answer provide a clue as to whether this is At the site, archaeologists of scorched walls and floors Burned pottery shards, as well they believe were blown around For them, the evidence matches of fire and brimstone But what could cause this? If you're looking at evidence it's reasonable to wonder whether this is a consequence Was Tall el-Hammam In recent decades, of a volcanic in the hills northeast Whilst 1/6th of Jordan known as basalt. MAN: There's lots and lots in that part of the Dead Sea. That's because that area Its had volcanism throughout But there is a problem There's no volcano close to To get volcanic activity, a triangular volcanic mountain or even a dormant volcano, what you need is a heat source with molten rock and you need pathways by which that and that's what we call So you can have a volcanic but they're pretty Despite evidence of ancient many reject the idea that this for the destruction of the site. There's just not enough You'd need a really significant to really cause And from what we can see, there But there is another natural Now, if somebody told me &quot;OK, I've got the &quot;and they've been collapsed, &quot;obviously the buildings have &quot;and there's lots I'd have probably gone, &quot;That sounds to me like So what happens to tectonic is that you got these two but at the boundary between they're stuck, they're snagged, there's friction It builds up and builds up until at some point, it can't and it just moves, And that generates a whole lot of That's the seismic and that essentially Could an earthquake have made and caused the collapse So when the fault line moves, or it can move horizontally, or it can move a combination And in the Dead Sea rift zone, it tends to be a combination That's what shook caused them to collapse and maybe set maybe a kiln was on, the rest of the roofs and that's what had happened. But for the evidence they suggests an earthquake When you got earthquake, the We are in a north/south in the region so when you things tend to move And so walls tend to fall in but all of the material is pushed to the north-east. And only to the north-east. It's very mono-directional. Crucially, the team make which suggests that for approximately 700 years during the late In that region, one of our is through pottery evidence. We just do not have pottery in that covers There's virtually none. And the second thing is there any architecture? There was a brief single was a toll house during that period that lasted So between the pottery, between nobody was home. They just migrated through. The team have uncovered of a thriving middle destroyed by a violent event, followed by a 700-year period where the site remained For them, the location and its scale indicates But they are no the cause for its Then, in 2011 whilst excavating Dr Collins' team make When the excavators of that they said, &quot;You have to come They found a piece of pottery Thousands are scattered But this piece is different. On one side, the fragment looks but on the other, the surface It looks like one side of it it's just lapping over For Dr Collins, it looks like a But this form of pottery thousands of years after the Collins is intrigued The fragment looks as though it's time-travelled What in the world is a piece of doing down here this deep? Could it offer any clues for the cause of Collins takes the for analysis at the US in New Mexico. When the results come back, they are quite literally We know that now from the tests everything about this is physically identical The word 'trinitite' 'Trinity' using the first ever The test took place in the Jornada del Muerto When the Trinity bomb it released the equivalent That's actually the nuclear bomb they dropped In the aftermath of scientists noticed all across the surface When the bomb exploded, and that creates a big up-rush and it took a whole load and that basically melted because of the immense heat, and then rained back down which cooled really quickly and then formed The melted glasslike is similar to that found on the When it's analyzed further, Zircon. Zircon is a naturally that you can find in rocks Looking at zircon what you'll see is and very regular with very But the zircon inside this piece This zircon was actually a lot Experts conclude that the zircon must've undergone to create such a strange shape. It suggests that this zircon had been heated up to such that it even melted and because otherwise you get that usually takes thousands The fragment must have been for it to have melted this way. A normal fire will burn at For zircon to melt, though, you're talking That's over double Now, the surface of the sun So you're talking equal to And as the excavation the team unearth of extreme heat-blasted Every place we've we have found indicators Every place we find What kind of thing could From the evidence we know there must have been much hotter And it created a substance but of course there weren't so what could've caused this? Well, one possible option Now, at our site, there for us to point to and look &quot;Here's the conclusive evidence &quot;some kind of astral body We don't have that. But meteors don't to unleash their An incredible and a blast can result from known as a meteor airburst. An airburst can be when a meteor in explodes in the air The damage on the ground can be devastating. Firstly, you've got this the meteor, in the air, that's radiating heat that can set things ablaze. Now, when it explodes, you've and that can also take so you can feel a heat rush. The amount of devastation really depends Bigger meteor, Meteor airbursts are rare but they have occurred In 1908, in a remote, and airburst is believed to have larger than Los Angeles. An eyewitness described the sky and being covered with fire. It destroyed about In the nearest town, residents could feel windows smashed and some people were even because of the force It would have felt More recently, in 2013, cameras exploded over the city of 1500 people suffered injuries and thousands The team at Tall el-Hammam believe that the evidence which left a path of destruction What we're looking at that was literally the buildings blown Artefacts, the pottery, the are shattered vaporises and incinerates And what we see is that and all of that material into a north-easterly The only known source of the that we're seen of the kind of thermal that we're seeing is As for the 700-year gap in Dr Silvia leaves this is the as it explodes over the If you have an airburst event it will actually where a wave will be pushed You have a very high volume of Dead Sea water that's travelling well, that 700-year gap by the poisoning that left behind a very It's possible the high salt would've rendered for a number of centuries. It was impossible to grow and if you can't you can't support cattle, you just cannot moving back into the area. The science is clear, And the evidence is mounting. I'm not saying that we absolutely but we know that all the are consistent For the archaeologists, the by meteor airburst provides a striking match to the biblical Fire and brimstone destroying leaving the surrounding But not everyone is convinced. A meteoritic event is They do happen but I think before you can jump and people can start you need more evidence, and I think, actually, have a signature much wider and so we need to look there. Since 2005, Dr Collins and his have excavated They've made the remains of a thriving, north-east of the Dead Sea, which they believe matches the Crucially, for Collins, the of Tall el-Hammam's destruction provides a close match of the destruction of Sodom. People often ask me that Tall el-Hamman It's become very certain to me that there is no other It's in the right place, it is it has the right stuff, it has When Steve Collins first and he said that he thought I was very sceptical. I believe the Bible, I think But I don't dig with the Bible The size, the location, the way and my own reading again, made me now convinced But the team still face scrutiny from the wider archaeological We know that meteorites strike so is this possible? Sure. Is this is also a pretty for a possible explanation that kind of matches to explain the destruction Yeah, it looks Cynics want to suggest that the for the destruction is just too spectacular, But just because it's doesn't mean that The team continues To answer of whether Tall el-Hammam really is the city of Sodom. Ancient Greece. From the 8th century, until the 4th century BCE, ancient Greek civilisation It gave the world democracy, philosophy, and art and architecture that still dominate our lives today. At its height, the ancient Greek colonies reached from modern day Spain through to Russia in the north It was made up of many competing with their own systems In the heartland lay the thriving city of Helike. Helike was a prominent But the ancient city for the role it played of the almighty Poseidon, the god of the Sea. Poseidon's moody, he is miserable. He's grumpy. And I find that really interesting because he is the god of the Sea. And the sea is obviously important for transportation, but it can turn on you like that. And can take lives. It's something Helike would discover In 373 BCE, the city vanishes. According to writers the entire city disappears Its location is lost The location of Helike And it's one of the resounding It's hauntingly similar to the myth of another ancient civilisation Atlantis. We asked the question, what could cause And is Helike, Atlantis? The Lost City of Atlantis. It's a myth that has We all know the famous story But it goes all the way back who tells us about Atlantis as a great city which ruled over an empire According to Plato's myth, the Atlanteans created a civilisation But they did not use and this angered the gods. The Atlanteans grew cruel, they grew hubristic. And for this, they were punished The city was destroyed and lost beneath the waves. For centuries, it's driven explorers Uncovering shipwrecks, But none have found It's even eluded famed oceanographer who led underwater expeditions But there is another lost city mentioned by classical that may offer clues - Helike. Just like Plato's myth of Atlantis, these authors record how Helike If we look at the story, Helike and Atlantis, both were disappeared from the face of the Earth. They both disappeared into waters. Helike and Atlantis also share the same patron god, Poseidon. And Plato wrote the story just after Helike was destroyed. Could Helike actually be Atlantis? The only way to know for certain, is for archaeologists to locate the lost city of Helike. In the 4th century BCE, a period of time known as the ancient Greek city state thrived on the shores It's a city with a rich history. The first time we ever it's in Homer's 'Iliad'. The classic Greek myth, 'The Iliad', tells how Helen, was abducted by Paris of Troy. Agamemnon, the King of Mycenae, commanded the united and set sail to bring Helen home. Helike's listed of the Peloponnese which send troops for Agamemnon's army to campaign Agamemnon's forces besieged Troy When this failed, they unleashed their secret weapon, This giant wooden horse They accepted it and brought it inside the city walls. With the people of Troy asleep, Greece's finest soldiers emerged from inside the horse Agamemnon's forces could finally and Troy fell. Homer's 'Iliad', is a myth. But Helike's role is well documented. Helike was the leader a democratic confederation in the Archaea region of Greece. Helike established colonies and Sybaris in southern Italy. Trade from these created a period The people of Helike was watched over by their patron god, Their temple dedicated to him brought pilgrims to the city Helike was a power house in the ancient Hellenistic It was a major religious hub, It was a political seat. It was a pretty significant The temple to Poseidon gave and they benefited economically As war engulfed the region, it placed Helike Between 492 and 479 BCE, the Persian Empire with the aim of conquering The allied efforts of the Greek but the Greek world was now on In 431 BCE, Greece erupted in war between By 404 BCE, But the economic cost across Poverty soon became widespread. But the people of Helike realised just how economically important the Temple of Poseidon was They remained largely uninvolved for fear of alienating either side. This decision served them well. As the dust settled, Helike and its colonies survived, along with the Temple of Poseidon and the income this brought them. And for a city state that relied it made sense that their patron god, was the god of the Sea. Poseidon is the god He's the god who the sailors would be praying to before they set out on their long voyages He's the god who would and bring you back home But Poseidon didn't keep According to the legend, the people of Helike closely guarded When they refused to share he was angered. They had treated extremely badly who had come from Ionia requesting copies of the Altar and some other sacred items. They had dragged these sacred and some stories say In 373 BCE, Poseidon destroyed the city. The destruction was so complete that it sent shock waves The story of Helike's demise very quickly enters We first get it we find it in Strabo, we find it in Pausanias it's everywhere. The story starts in 373 BCE, and we hear that Poseidon is angry with the inhabitants And what he does he causes a terrible earthquake. A tidal wave rolls in from the sea and completely submerges the city. The entire population of Helike in one fell swoop. And not only that, but there were ten Spartan warships and they were also dragged down So this was total wipe out. Helike's destruction was so severe that the only way could come to terms with it, was to blame it on the supernatural - Poseidon, the god of the Sea, caused the city to vanish In the years that follow, its location is forgotten, and the story of Helike The parallels between and Helike's destruction But what actually happened? And could Helike be Atlantis? The only way to know For archaeologists to have any hope and determining what caused they need to discern what is fact and what is fiction. Was there any physical proof that Helike had actually existed? Two of Germany's Adolf Michaelis and Alexander Conze, explore the shores surrounding While resting in the village, they are sold an ancient artefact, a bronze coin. Poseidon is depicted in a very fine representation which is a very beautiful, depiction of Poseidon. And on the reverse we have that is his trident and the two dolphins all included in a wreath, But as Michaelis and Conze they make a startling discovery. The coin bears the letters, 'ELIK', which is an abbreviation This was the first that the city of Helike actually Up until this point, all we had was the testimony of various authors and the story but this was an actual piece Michaelis and Conze have identified the first piece that Helike actually existed. It marks an incredible turning point. Was the lost city of Helike Could there be some truth And could it help solve Archaeologists need to re-examine the ancient texts describing Could they find that might help them sort fact A key text recounting was written in the second century CE by the renowned Roman author, Aelian. Buried in his account, is a detail that may lend voracity to the written destruction event, a tsunami caused by an earthquake. There's a Roman author who talks about and he mentions that five days all the animals, all the rats, all the insects, went scurrying away And the people should have something bad was about to happen. It's an intriguing detail. But is there any truth Geologist Ian Stewart has heard an animal exodus right before In 1995 I was in northern Greece, and we were starting to get reports that there had been this earthquake I spoke to fisherman, who talked about catching the equivalent of their whole in the night before And also in their catch, strange fish that they hadn't seen, deep water squid and things And one of the things that we know is the Earth's crust gets prepared The stress gets pent up and there's fluids and lots So the only slight thing is whether animals, particularly ground dwelling could be sensitive to that. And that seems to be The story of animals fleeing Helike in the lead up to its destruction might just be true. And according to the ancient writers, the tsunami that submerged Helike was triggered by an earthquake. But would a tsunami account To know for certain, archaeologists Only then, the cause of its destruction. The hunt is on They turn again to the ancient texts. It's believed that were visible for hundreds of years after it was destroyed, and many ancient writers But over time its ruins disappeared, and these descriptions lost The archaeologists are forced to start from scratch, Pouring over the ancient texts, they find a clue. The ancient Greek geographer, recorded that Helike in what he describes as a 'poros'. But what exactly is a 'poros'? 'Poros', in ancient Greece, means a narrow passage of water. Archaeologists interpreted this as the Corinthian Gulf. It was a solid lead for the archaeological The ruins of Helike had to be The problem is, the Gulf encompasses 2,500 square kilometres. And according to the ancient texts, just like the myth of Atlantis, the ruins should be underwater. The expectation was that Helike lay somewhere on the sea bed And so over the generations, it becomes this holy grail to find where Helike was. Archaeologists now have a rough It's clear to them at the bottom of the Gulf of Corinth. But how can you locate a lost city It would require an entirely new form and a new breed of archaeologist. The hunt for the lost city of Helike is taken up by one of Greece's celebrity archaeologist In 1967, Marinatos became when he uncovered on the island of Santorini. For some, the civilisation was a strong contender But Marinatos found no evidence to back up this theory. And his ultimate dream If the lost city Marinatos had for what it might contain. He believed that Helike would be a kind of That is, everything you would find in Helike would be there, exactly as it was at the moment it was destroyed. If he could find the city, maybe he could solve the mystery Could he also solve Marinatos needs a way of peering to identify any human made structures He turns to a cutting edge sonar imaging. In 1973, oceanographer Paul Kronfield was brought on to Marinatos' team. He is tasked with scanning He remembers his time Professor Marinatos He said 'cause it's that's basically been buried and undisturbed for thousands of years. With all the artefacts For this grand expedition, Marinatos commandeered and outfitted it If the sonar scanners the team would drill to see if they held any The drilling ship And it would come in out of the mist and drop the ramp on the beach. And all the scientists and engineers would come charging down the ramp like invading the beaches except we were invading At that time of year, the night-blooming jasmine and the fragrance is in the air, and we'd be sitting there looking up at the stars. &quot;You know this is exactly how &quot;when the people of ancient Helike And it was a very magic time. Back at sea, Marinatos's team hunting for any anomalies or signs of structures. It's like looking for a needle But incredibly, We picked up pockmarks And they were very intriguing, God generally doesn't So, this could mean It could be a road or, it could be a wall, we didn't know. With the possibility lying in the depths beneath the team deployed the drilling rig to retrieve core sample. Had they finally found the lost city? There was so much excitement You know, sleep was impossible, we had to be there 'cause everyone expected to see some artefacts that would indicate a discovery. It just kept everybody But all they found was mud After having spent and sub-bottomprofiling, and then to find nothing, it was very disappointing. Despite working through the night there was absolutely no sign And with the excavating another chapter in the hunt For Spyridon Marinatos, he would never get the chance The following year, in 1974, he died of a stroke He is buried at the site. The location of the lost city remained a mystery, for now. Archaeologist Professor grew up on the shores close to where Helike She is well acquainted of the ancient city's destruction. People who were raised they all hear about this story because Helike was the most important city in the region. When I was a child, I was always dreaming of becoming in order to try and find So it was a childhood dream, In 1988, and begins turning her dream She picks up where using sonar scanners to map the bottom Soon, the sonar picks up In one location, we found remains of something that looks like been man made. It's something that has to do with installations of a port. And in another location, we may have remains Analysing the sonar read out was a man now familiar oceanographer Paul Kronfield. We saw ten of these features, ten parabolic type features under the sea Paul Kronfield bed. It was very exciting. According to Aelian, the night that Helike was destroyed, there were ten Spartan ships at anchor in Helike's port. For Katsonopoulou, it was starting to look like they'd uncovered an ancient port. If they could identify shown on the sonar scans as the ten sunken Spartan warships told in the Helike legend, then surely they'd have finally But sonar scans alone aren't proof. To be sure the team needs to dive and examine the structures. But here, they run into a problem. The Corinthian Gulf, is very muddy. And when divers go down, as soon as they move it's, you know, a real cloud of mud that is raised in front of them, so they cannot really see. It's a very difficult sea The muddy conditions on the sea bed make it impossible to identify Still, Katsonopoulou has a hunch these underwater features represent But how to be sure? She needs a way of narrowing down Were there any clues near these sonar hits? Katsonopoulou returns Reading the work of the ancient she comes across something - a description of Helike in relation to the neighbouring town, Crucially, it mentions the distance. One says that Helike is 40 stades, that is 7km, east of the city of Aigion. Going further east, he also comes to another monument in the area, which is known as the Cave of Heracles Vouraikos. And he gives us a distance of Helike from the cave of about 5.5km. It's said that the people of Helike to leave offerings The location of the cave It's a key clue for Professor If Helike is within 7km and 5.5km of the Cave of Heracles, then the lost city must lie where these measurements cross over. The port features are well within this region. They match the location But despite repeated sonar scanning, all they could find was evidence of a port. Why wasn't the rest of the city Katsonopoulou looks again to the ancient descriptions These texts have been studied by archaeologists before her. But Katsonopoulou has an advantage, she can read these works as they were written. Had any clues As she pores over the ancient she realises incredibly It all hinged the body of water that Helike was said Poros, in ancient Greek, means a narrow passage of water. But most archaeologists had interpreted this Which was absolutely wrong, because the ancient sources knew the Corinthian Gulf by name. So they could mention they didn't have a reason Now what poros would mean in my interpretation was an inland lagoon or lake. According to Professor the lost city of Helike wasn't at the bottom of but had been submerged It's a blow for those hoping Plato's mythological city had been submerged and lost not a lagoon. But still, in the search for Helike, it's an incredible breakthrough. It was beginning to make sense why Katsanopoulou's sonar scans not the rest of the city. There was only one problem, if you're thinking about this there isn't a lagoon there now, there's just solid land. So, where was the poros? OK. Then I thought, &quot;Since we have a poros, &quot;that is an inland lagoon, &quot;then the ruins of the city &quot;should lie under this lagoon, &quot;because this lagoon &quot;covered up &quot;actually the destroyed city.&quot; But at the point where the sonar scans there was no lagoon, only dry land. But all of Katsonopoulou's evidence Was it possible that the lagoon The fact that you have a feature close to the shore that shows to you that So we said, &quot;OK, we checked it out, &quot;we have now to prepare &quot;for starting on land.&quot; Katsonopoulou steps ashore. Was there any evidence that this area If she could find any, then she would be to locating the lost city of Helike. Among the trees on a farm, just outside the town of Rizomylos, Katsonopoulou notices a bridge but no river. Examining the geology it becomes clear this bridge Over millions of years, the craggy mountains have been eaten away by rivers As the rivers make their way they carry with them One of the things was the sheer amount of material that was coming from Those rivers were bringing huge amounts and spreading it So this was one of the most I'd ever encountered. Each winter, the rivers break their banks and deposit sediment across It explains why the bridge is now That bridge was at one point And it's no longer over a river, the river's about 500m away. So that tells us that the rivers have changed As the sediment builds the rivers gradually become and the water changes course. The bridge is a feature that has to do with the geomorphological changes Actually the bridge is evidence for the shift of the river. For Katsonopoulou, The lost city of Helike But all her evidence pointed Katsonopoulous suspects a lagoon was once here, but had silted up over time. The lagoon had completely over by the sediments And that's why today you do not see The lagoon, of course, it is buried The ancient texts, the sonar scans, the existence of a lagoon, all pointed to Helike But to know for certain, her team will need to break ground. Katsonopoulou and her team conduct a series along the coastal plain. They drill boreholes and examine the samples for any signs of ancient life. In 1993, they find some. Pieces of pottery. Inside these soils samples were found the first Until then, nothing was known from this area. Even to find some first small pottery fragments, it was something to rejoice at. For Katsonopoulou, these finds indicated that's likely to exist Could these be the ruins of Helike? The team prepares to excavate. But before the archaeologists they are woken in the night by a horrific noise. We were conducting when this earthquake happened, the Aigion earthquake of 1995. We were very much alarmed that happened early in the morning. Of course living through an earthquake event, it's something dramatic and terrifying. When the dust from Katsonopoulou's team Here they uncover the remains Helike was destroyed in 373 BCE, during the Classical Period. But frustratingly, They date from a far later period But for Katsonopoulou, it proves For me, it was very important. Because that proved for good that there is ancient occupation And you have the real evidence You have a building. As more excavations are conducted, it becomes clear that the site held It's promising news. But to edge closer Katsonopoulou's team need to uncover evidence that this site was inhabited during the Classical Period. In the foundation trench we discovered a nice group of pottery fragments like Classical and even earlier, going back to the 8th century BC. That showed to us that we were we were in the right area. The wealth of finds uncovered prosperous, ancient city But although the team of settlements from the Roman, the early Bronze Age they haven't found any structures from the Classical Period, the era that Helike existed in. Until Professor Katsonopoulou's Beneath an olive grove, they uncover a series of structures teaming with artefacts. When they date them, it becomes clear they've hit We can date these buildings because of the finds that is pottery, coins and other, that date to the 4th century BC. The artefacts fit the time frame for the story And as Katsonopoulou sifts she comes across a timely remainder that people once lived here, an object which appears to be One of the more special finds is the terracotta painted head which actually chronologically is earlier than Classical. Because this is and obviously this belonged to the people who own this building. And this was something like they had inherited from one generation to the other, and was still remaining Finally, Professor Katsonopoulou that a large city existed here the year that Helike is said to have been destroyed by a tsunami. Had Katsonopoulou finally uncovered The ancient ruins match the historical and geographical descriptions But a key question was there any proof that this site had been destroyed by a tsunami and submerged Without this, whether the lost city of Helike had finally been found. If these ruins then the remains of aquatic life Katsonopoulou's team brought up by bore hole drillings When they analyse they make an important discovery, evidence of microscopic organisms usually found You have organisms that show that the environment in which they are found is definitely These ruins were once submerged just as the ancient accounts of the destruction For Katsonopoulou, she has proof that these ruins are the lost city of Helike. It's an incredible moment. Finding something that, for over a century, was an unresolved problem was a major moment. It's an amazing feeling, that it is difficult to describe. It is a life's work for me. Could these ruins behind one of the Ancient World's what actually caused According to the ancient texts, Poseidon was angry and caused an earthquake, which triggered a tsunami that overwhelmed But was a tsunami for the eradication of Helike? As Katsonopoulou's team they found clear evidence that the structures and crucially, pointed to a great wave. In two different locations have been found Classical remains of buildings destroyed, and the interesting thing is that in one case, the way one of the walls is fallen, shows that it was perhaps the result of a backwash It was looking like A tsunami had engulfed Helike. But a closer analysis shows something else, Helike had suffered before the tsunami hit, almost as if the city prior to being engulfed. What could have caused this? The Gulf of Corinth because it's the most seismically and Greece is the most seismically Geologist Iain Stewart was investigating another earthquake that had occurred in 1861 when his path crossed What he discovered offered an answer. I was doing what was called So, you kind of excavate and you get some evidence of when that fault last moved during an earthquake. I knew there was an earthquake so my question was, the one that also moved in the earlier earthquake of 373 BC? Stewart's geological analysis highlighted many similarities between the earthquake of 1861 and the earthquake that triggered His findings match the destruction There was large scale large areas of flooding, there was lots of mud and water that had erupted out. There was fissuring 373 BC was a really big earthquake. The plain dropped, maybe 3m. The tops of the olive trees were just sticking out of the water. This would have been of this whole landscape. The whole area And then, you just get kind of collapsing down into the sea. It would have been the most extraordinary event Terrifying. For Stewart, it seemed likely the earthquake of 373 BCE didn't just cause a tsunami, but shook the ground so violently that Helike was engulfed by water It's a process known It occurs when wet, is shaken by an earthquake. It causes the soil particles and the moisture rises Solid ground takes on The main effects are dramatic outpourings of water, in some case kind of but in some cases fountains. Like, almost like exploding out under great pressure. Changing, transforming the whole physical kind of landscape, burying buildings, burying people perhaps. It seems that in 373 BCE, the ancient city of Helike was hit by a cataclysmic earthquake. As the earth opened up, the city and its inhabitants were flooded by water bursting up With the city all but destroyed, the tsunami triggered engulfed all that remained of Helike. The city was lost beneath the waves. While Helike is giving up the myth of the lost city remains as big a mystery But as archaeologists continue similarities between and Plato's tale of Atlantis Could Helike's destruction Poseidon was the patron and most important god of Helike. As god of Earthquakes, Poseidon was the most important god But there is another reason that Plato would be interested he was in Athens, Helike was not very far The phenomenon that destroyed Helike impressed very much the ancients, so Plato heard about it, there is no doubt that he heard and he knew about it. In Plato's tale, the citizens of Atlantis who then sent an earthquake that made Atlantis sink into the sea. The Helike legend offers up Poseidon is said in a fit of wrath with the way the people of Helike had behaved towards some visitors wishing to venerate him. If you look at the period that Plato lived through, is there were lots Ones like Helike, where you had So to my mind, it's perfectly reasonable what Plato did was he took reality that he was seeing and he transposed that that happened way in the past. So it's one of those factional where there's a bit of fact in there but there's also a little bit