- Looks like today we got to 101 degrees in the water on - You talking about That little, I think that because we're getting closer to it. Water still. The sun is just radiating. It's just absorbing all that heat. - What we're worried of what's left of the coral population. - All right, I'm ready - Woo. That's hot. I am Maya Ma, and I'm fascinated our weather, and our climate. What began as a career in mission to figure out and where we're going stable climate period. And enter the hockey stick era - This morning. Scientists say the 101.1 degree buoy near Key Largo, Florida. This week may break a record for the highest observed - This super heated water contributing to the heating of the Gulf Stream and the coral reefs. - You know, if that happens in to say, oh, that's an anomaly But what's unique about this which is now 30 years have not seen a particular summer that is this glaringly hot everywhere. - Warming in the ocean through stronger hurricanes, coral bleaching, loss of sea ice in the Arctic - For much of the last 10,000 years, our planet's climate has been important ways, temperature, atmospheric carbon dioxide, and sea level. During this time, the human people on earth to 8 billion. That stable climate period of human civilization as we know it, but that stability is gone That's because of tipping points. And these are critical that once crossed can speed up and intensify the impacts and they may not be reversible. How well we understand these changes and how we choose to act for generations to come. So join me in the field and in the lab to see what the brightest minds to say about our changing weather and climate and how to prepare. And I wanna share why I'm more confronting this global crisis because exponential change, the kind that suddenly sneaks up I have some very big news. The Weather team and I made a TV show. We're so excited to announce that Weathered Earth six app and on PBS stations We traveled around the world to tell the definitive story and climate and how a better This is the first of six episodes, and you can watch the rest to support us and help us do more seasons. You can watch the series PBS app for free. You can also watch it on Think of the PBS app as It's one of the best places for documentaries from It also has every show from like Eons Be Smart Crash Course. And Strom, we put so and we can't wait for you to watch it. This is a huge deal for the Weather team, and it's one of the biggest ever released. And we have you the viewers to thank. We couldn't have done it Okay, back to the first episode. - So Tim, you pioneered the study of climate tipping points So can you tell me what - So a tipping point is a which if we cross it, we and potentially irreversible change. It really looks like a different climate tipping points. And the decisions we make in define our climate future. We're talking about the major and Greenland that together of sea level rise. We're talking about major ocean currents that set the pattern of And then the frozen permafrost as it thaws, it can release as is currently in the atmosphere. And then there's bits that Amazon rainforests and the coral reefs that half for their livelihoods. - Coral reefs are one and biodiverse ecosystems on the planet. Nearly a quarter of all marine as hundreds of millions of for food income and protection from extreme But an ocean that's too hot by even just a couple degrees So I went to Florida to to crossing this threshold. During a record breaking ocean heat wave, I arrived while conservationists and scientists were carrying attempt in history. - All the teams in Florida kind to save as many corals We did that by actually of all these different genotypes, every single genetic and bringing them here. - It's a desperate attempt as possible, allowing corals to weight out the heat naturally growing. Coral can't be moved without damage. But young coral grown in labs and recently planted on ocean reefs can. So dozens of scientists and researchers carefully as water temperatures Each coral represents years of work towards creating a more resilient - Reef. Most corals are animals, but in their tissues, they They use energy from through photosynthesis. When the temperatures get too above 87, 88 into the nineties, the algae actually stop for the corals, and instead - When this happens, the coral an attempt to save themselves. - That's the process of bleaching. Before this year, things Unfortunately, it's of the world's corals to bleaching and other things. - Impacts, damage from Increasing heat has little impact until a threshold is crossed. Then suddenly the If they remain bleached for It takes about eight weeks. Coral bleaching itself is nothing new. But what is new is how often making it difficult for too much bleaching too close together, and we lose the living corals of the reef structure where So scientists develop and to improve resilience, which I'm gonna see up close And this process may hold or not a coral tipping - Jason? Hi Maya. How are you doing? Very - Good. - Show me around. Oh, come - This is Staghorn Coral. Coral nurseries like this are places where we can radically increase the number of new coral colonies. - So we start with a piece of coral that we know is more because it has already - What we're gonna do is we're and we're gonna fragment it working with our bandsaw. - I don't know how accurate I'm gonna be. I'm gonna try my best. - It it'll, it'll be perfect. - Look at that. Just a - Perfect. We're ready to glue 'em. Get 'em off to their new home. In the land-based nurseries, when we do our micro fragmentation to achieve a dinner plate that's about the rough size to be sexually mature. - Fragmenting the coral stimulates growth shaving decades off the time By propagating the most you speed up evolution and the reef can survive in warmer water. But here's the tipping point clue. - Most of these strategies that we've been developing of promise in trying to to two degrees Celsius of heat tolerance. What we're seeing this year because we're seeing a of temperature anomaly. - Back in the 1960s and seventies and, and even into the eighties, of the reef surface was Today, before this, to 5% of our reef is dead ahead. That's the spa buoy. The big deal. - I'm trying is this? that's bleach squirrel right there. - Wow. I didn't even, I didn't, I didn't even realize That is crazy. I wonder how What I was looking at down You can see it's completely white. Bleaching was everywhere, and this was the case for Fish were still using the features, but if the reef building the structure will eventually fall apart. - On the bottom, it was and 92 degrees Fahrenheit. And then at the surface there were definitely a couple That is incredibly hot coral. After coral, after coral that I would estimate something of the corals down there on cover site. Were showing some signs of completely bleached, and then a much lower proportion So all of that bleaching over the last couple of weeks. - But there's still some If the temperatures drop back down quickly enough, they could survive. So I'll come back to Florida later in the summer to see how they did. It makes sense that impacted by summer heat. But what about one of the headed to Fairbanks, Alaska, where much of the Arctic region is warming around four times faster pushing another sensitive point permafrost. This frozen ground is estimated to contain more than 1500 This is equivalent to twice that's currently in including all the human cause, CO2, and methane emissions that have already warmed Global warming is gradually thawing, this permafrost releasing atmosphere leading to more And I think you can see the problem here. Before the 2023 fire season, that a runaway feedback loop But then 45 million acres doubling the previous annual record fires even burned into the of permafrost, unprotected and more susceptible to in the spring of 2024, over 100. So-called zombie fires reemerged after being buried under the snow and ice for the entire arctic winter. I couldn't help but wonder how this extreme fire permafrost tipping point. So to find out, we went to a study site where scientists can landscape with one that - So here we are. This is the boundary of the Hess Creek fire. And what makes it unique is that it's happened over - Tima is important because kind of permafrost. It's made of underground ice wedges and organic matter that froze before it had time to decompose. When yetta thaws, the organic releasing the stored by measuring the carbon Here scientists can understand the impact that fire has on the permafrost below. - This is gonna be our flux chamber for measuring chamber CO2 and methane. - If we detect either of but not the unburned forest, we'll know that the fire was responsible for initiating this permafrost thaw. - There can't be any openings. So when we first start of what's the general background, - By doing this, we're able underneath us is absorbing - So what we can see is emissions from this site. - But just across the highway and the unburned forest, Nick's measurements Trees and vegetation protect keeping it frozen. As it grows, the forest atmosphere than it releases, - Underneath us is ancient old ice age deposits. And still today they're frozen. - And is that because of the trees and all the shrubs that - Exactly. But as soon as you you create disturbance, which creates a positive feedback, and that can lead to a tipping point. - But the key to understanding the yet MA's deep ice wedges. But this is kind of hard to because you can't see them. So we're going underground. So why do we need the flashlights? - Well, it's pretty spooky inside. All right, come on in. - Yeah, that's a smell. - I don't even know how to describe it. - Some people have said it's You're seeing a bison, a mammoth, and a horse left over - Wait, can I touch it? Yeah, - This right here, this - Yes, that's a wooly mammoth Oh my gosh. But if you, you can actually see that The plants never had And so we can still see - It's basically frozen in time. - That's right. Wow. And so the permafrost is or soil or even plants and microbes that are frozen But in this case, this has been frozen for at least 15,000 years. - At that time, the earth was warming as it emerged from the last ice age. This thaw the very top layer of permafrost turning it and even forests were able then insulated the remaining protecting it from further thaw. But now things are changing. - So here you can actually and then look above you. So the reason these ice because, well, they're composed of water. And when they're frozen, this But as they thaw, they as thermal car lakes, which actually convert And methane is about as a greenhouse gas than CO. Two - More on methane in a moment. But first, let's focus on the lakes. Creating it water transfers So once these ice wedges begin to melt, the thaws almost contagious and spreads quickly, creating lots of smaller local tipping points. So we're going to a different where Nick believes an already been crossed. Just a few decades ago, the with few lakes, but as the yet ma thaws, the landscape is changing dramatically. - So a chunk of this is and these trees are falling in. But you have to realize, was all a permafrost plateau that's now transitioning into a lake. And so what you'll find extreme methane emissions And this lake is, we believe the largest methane emitting lake in the literature. - It's kind of wild to think that this was just frozen ground. Now because of climate change, - And lakes like this are One is that they convey heat leading to the spread of further thaw and the creation of more lakes. And two, when organic matter which is what happened And methane is a far more - When you strip back this exposes it to And it's like opening What happens if you open the freezer door and you lose power to your food? - Goes bad, And why does it smell? It's rotting, - It's decomposing, - So does this mean we have point, releasing all that arctic I asked Tim what he thought. - When we look down from space, we see that we're crossing quite a locally, and they visible as So the big concern is that we see those and it becoming a much an amplifier of climate change. There are these extraordinary fires that we've seen in the that are starting to hit and hurt the slow major carbon We've not seen the evidence that's amplifying warming, but we are seeing these and we're starting to see them spread, which is a obvious sign for concern. - By the winter of 2023, water temperatures in Florida had dropped. So we met up with Liv to of the coral survived - Gas was on in the water. It was clear right away that the heat event was just too long and too intense for most The bleach coral we saw longer stark white. It - Was brown, gray and dead. - Well, that was even Not even one patch of light Wow. These are corals that I've watched for and already be some of the last And to watch them slowly die just basically heartbreaking. It's real. They're actually gone, - Gone. And the same was true for almost all - Of the reefs in the Florida Keys. I really fear that we may have of a tipping point with these Elkhorn and staghorn coral populations because they're just so there's just not that many - As 2023 turned to 2024 and warmed in the Southern hemisphere, authorities officially declared the fourth and most severe global bleaching In general, corals in the much better than those in the Caribbean because there are fewer and higher biodiversity still. 2024 was the fifth mass bleaching Reef in just eight years. And global sea surface temperatures shocking records of 2023. The single most important or not we reach a global tipping point for coral is the frequency So is it possible this threshold - I think we tragically for coral reefs. We've seen the fourth rate I thought it was gonna that we passed a tipping point or not. For the corals, we're now having 12 months of 1.5 degrees centigrade of warming. I think it's given us pretty of coral reef are past a tipping point. Now - The coral and permafrost and there are only two of that are most likely to tip soon. But Tim also said something to understand this - So wel, we're seeing this shocking news of the bad climate tipping points. We're also seeing the for positive tipping points, And we see that as exponential of solar panels or wind turbines or electric vehicles that get rid of greenhouse gas emissions. And it's like a, a kind of Now you've got this escalating risk of the bad climate tipping points, but you also see the rise of We need to, to stop or limit the risk from - To prevent the earth from reaching irreversible tipping points. The science is very clear. We have to reach net zero by and that's just a few decades away. But what Tim says should The truth is, we're exponential rate. And unless you're paying attention to every new advancement to miss the fact that now, for the first time in human history, we have a fighting chance before it's too late. - Historical production of solar power have always and by quite funny amounts, often projections about the next 10 years of solar uptake would usually When solar power is the and it's been deployed, to make an economic case to The human species might - Not be great at a lot of things like understanding But I'd like to think that which fuels my optimism about all this. So in spite of seeing of climate change firsthand, We're already feeling the but there's a lot we can And that's exactly what we'll It's a deep exploration to adapt and when to leave. - Whoa.