According to us, not a single person is living according to Vrindavan. They are only throwing waste water and littering Vrindavan. These days, there is a trend that in Thakurji's house, they are keeping food in front of Thakurji. So, the photo of that plate is being put on social media with Thakurji. Ever since people have seen that video, that Prem Anandji is treating you, and you are treating him so lovingly like a kid, then people came to know that he also has a Guru. Radhe Radhe friends, welcome to another new podcast. We and you enjoy a lot when a guest comes to us from Shri Vrindavan Dham. Today's podcast is going to be very interesting. Today we will know about Radha Vallabh ji. Because today we have with us Shri Hith Mohit Maral Goswami ji, who is the Tilakayat Adhikari of Radha Vallabh Mandir. He is the 18th generation of Shri Harivansh Mahaprabhu. And he is also the Deeksha Guru of Prem Anand Maharaj ji. I mean, today we are going to have such good talks. When we were talking to Guruji off camera, we got so excited while talking that when these talks will reach you, how much fun you will have. So first of all, Maharaj ji, welcome to you. Shri Harivansh. Maharaj ji, like many people call you Shri Haridas, Shri Harivansh. First of all, tell us about this. Why is it called so? Before greeting anyone. Like many people call you Radhe Radhe, Hare Krishna. You are calling yourself Shri Harivansh. Why is it so? The reason behind this is, Shri Harivansh, our Murdhan Acharya, who established this Sampradaya, he is saying that, first of all, let me give you an example. The electricity that is coming to you, is coming from the power station. And through the proper channel, if we take a direct connection from there, then what will happen to the house? It will be destroyed. That is why, that through the proper channel, the way we have to reach there, it is a transformer. If we get electricity from there, then it will illuminate us. Otherwise, it will set us on fire. Okay. That is why, the path we are walking on, we have to follow that path, and then move ahead. When we follow that path, then we will reach further. So, like normal people say, Radhe Radhe, does it affect them too? Radha, Radha, Radha, Radha, Radha, Radha, Radha, Radha, Radha, So, what are the rules in Bhakti? What does your Guru tell you? What lifestyle, what kind of life do you have to live? See, simple life has been taught everywhere. We have a principle, not only in Bhakti, but also in Sanskar. Not only in Vrindavan, but also in the world. A mother teaches her child, to look down and walk, so that he does not stumble. If he looks up and walks, then he stumbles. So, this stumbling is not only due to an object. It is due to the people who are lower than us, who belong to the lower class, who live below us. When we look at them, we say, Wow, Maharaj, you are very kind. He does not even have a cycle, you have given me a cycle. This is the thought. If he looks up and walks, he has a motorcycle, I have a cycle. So, he will stumble. That is why, if he looks down and walks, he will not stumble. And Maharaj Ji, as we were talking about Bhakti, is there a correct way, that Bhakti should be like this, like normal people do? What is the correct way? What is Bhakti? It is surrendering yourself. From where does one surrender? From the body, intellect or from the mind? From the mind. From all three? From the mind. Mainly from the mind. Until the mind is not at the feet of the mind, the mind is not at the feet of the mind, the mind is not at the feet of the mind, then Bhakti is not there. It is just a show. To show it to four people. There is a fashion these days, that in Thakur Ji's house, Bhog is being kept in front of Thakur Ji. So, the photo of that plate, is being put on social media Ask those fools, have they ever put their own plate? Or is it just a show, that we are putting this Bhog? Will they get it? They will not get it. Thakur Ji does not just put Bhog. He is not a Bhogi, who puts Bhog. He is a lover. He gets only love. But Maharaj Ji, it is said, even if some people are doing it for social media, they are getting some excuse, that they are going towards spirituality and Bhakti. This is not Bhakti. This is just a show. It is the fulfillment of our desires. In Bhakti, there is no fulfillment of desires. In Bhakti, you just have to impress yourself on them. That is Bhakti. Those who have a heart, they do not want anything from you. Their name is Data. They are going to give. Think about it. There is a fashion going on these days, that if there is a party or function at home, then a return gift is given. This is a fashion. And 100% people are so intelligent, that they find out what is inside the wrap. Whether it is useful or not. If it is not, then they change the tag and transfer it to another place. Is this what happens at 90-100% places? Now think about it. If the same thing comes back to you, how will you feel? Will you feel good? How sad will you feel at that time? That he did not value what I gave him. And I am giving Thakurji what he gave me. How will he feel? Think about it. I gave him a gift. I gave him money. I did this and that. Does he want that? Is he hungry for that? He wants that thing. He gave this bottle, a heart-shaped bottle, empty. You have increased his love. Your real income is that. If you give him that, he will feel good. Otherwise, he throws away other things. He does not even look at it. He only wants your pure love. Pure love, in which there is no adulteration. 100% adulteration is the result of desires. If someone tells you to do this, then this work will be fulfilled. This is not a shop, Thakurji. If you give so much money, then you will get this thing. He does not need money. He does not need anything. Today you have opened a shop. Give me money. He does not need money. Yes, I agree that there is a temple. It is needed for maintenance. It is needed for maintenance, but only that much. If you do not give money, then what is the need for Thakurji's offering? It is just a show. And what is the need for what will be distributed? Take this thing. There is darkness in the temple. Put a bulb. Does anyone come to your house and say that the bulb near your gate is not working? Who will do that? The one who lives in the house. If you do this then it is love. It is not that I offer it and show it to others. You must have heard a saying that donate with the right hand but the left does not know. I have heard this saying What does it mean? It comes between both the hands. The mind is our intellect. If we leave from here and someone sees us and we leave daily and a poor man sits there and we feel like giving him something. When we are going the next day, what will be our desire? That he should praise us with a smile. If he neglects you, what will you feel? I gave him food yesterday and he did not even recognize me. Wherever this word comes, the donation is over. If you expect him to give you a smile or recognize you wherever this word comes. Because this is his work. Give it from here. He does not even know the opposite hand. This is why it is said that if you give and he smiles or does not smile even then you have cashed that donation. It is not a donation. Advertisements are there to say but they are cashing it in front of everyone. You have also cashed it. That donation will not be considered pure. We were talking about devotion. It is said that if you want to ask anything ask from God. If you want to cry in front of someone then cry in front of God. What is wrong in asking from God? What is wrong if you are going for a wish? Tell me one thing. From whom do you ask? From God. No. From whom do you ask? Someone who does not know what we want. If we ask you to give us this kurta you did not know what we wanted. We asked. Now it is up to you whether you give or not. In whose computer even after 50 or 500 births what form we will be in in which yoni how much breath we will have how much ration we will have is it right to ask from that data? What does he not know? If we ask then what will be left if you have to get more or there will be more written in it? Let me give you an example of this. You are going somewhere. A person is seen at a distance. You felt by looking at his face that he has not eaten since many days. I will feed him. This thought came to your mind. You are going near him. As soon as he came in front he said Babu, give me a cup of tea. Now what will be your position? Think about it. I will eat. No. What will be your position at that time and what will you do? I will feed him tea. I will not even give him two biscuits with tea. But if he would have been quiet what would he have got? He would have got a full stomach of food. If he would have been quiet If you go to God with a pure heart then he knows what is good for you and what is bad for you. A child goes to the market holding his mother's finger. It is Diwali season. There are firecrackers everywhere. That child likes such a big bomb. Will the mother give it to him? She will not give it to him. The child is crying there. He is yearning for it. He is yearning for it. The mother is looking around. Everyone in the market is looking at him. Will the mother give it to him? No. Will the mother give him greed to buy small things? No. The child is yearning for it. Will the mother give it to him? She will not give it to him. He knows that it is harmful for him. She will hold his hand and drag him to the car or home. She will not give it to him. Because it is not auspicious for him. Just like that child, people are after Thakurji. The child will remember that his mother did not give him the bomb. He will remember that his mother did not give him the bomb. He will remember that his mother Similarly, today's human being is also a child. He is young. He is also after Thakurji. Someone has two children. There is a factory. The children are growing up. What will he ask from Thakurji? He will ask for two factories. He will ask for two factories to take care of his children. Because our intellect is limited. Who are we talking to? Unlimited. Unlimited. Like Ambani, 200 factories. He asked for only two. So, he also asked for it cheaply. So, it is right to ask. While smiling it is right to stand in front of him. He is the giver. What can he not give? But, he will give whenever you will be able to take care of him. If you can take care of 200 factories, you will get 200. If you can't take care of even one, it will be returned. It will be returned. By misusing one's duty or right, everything will be returned. By misusing one's right. If you are in a big government job, you get suspended in a second. When does it happen? When you misuse your right. Right. Maharaj Ji, let's talk about Radha Vallabh Ji. It is said that Radha Vallabh's darshan is weak. Many things are said about her eyes. Sometimes she looks sparkling or different. Tell us about her. Look, Radha Vallabh Lal's darshan is not easy. By the way, it is very easy to do. I just told you that those who give darshan are more and those who do it are less. The crowd that you are seeing in Vrindavan today, it is only for photos and reels. There is a lot of crowd in Vrindavan. It is not for darshan artists. It is only for those who watch and those who celebrate picnics. What is the difference between darshan and watching? Darshan, in Hindi, there is a subject called darshan shastra. It is called philosophy. From where darshan shastra ends, this darshan of Thakurji begins. This is Thakurji's darshan. If you go to a temple, a crowd is doing darshan. 2-4 people are doing darshan. When they are going out, will you ask them to do darshan or do it here? How beautiful were the feet! How colorful were the clothes! Don't pay attention to that. We have only seen the face of Mukharbind. If the sweets are kept in front of you, why did you eat so little? They are kept for you. When the sweets are kept for you, do they need to be decorated? Kali Das is writing in Abhigyan Shyakuntalam, What is the beauty of a beautiful figure? What doesn't a beautiful figure look like? If you wear it on torn clothes, then there is a fashion of torn clothes. If someone has ever worn a beautiful figure, then seeing it, that thing went on. Our Radha Vallabh Lal is so beautiful that if she is dressed with a sack of cloth, then a different Kanti will come. It is not necessary that Kanti will come from silk. She does not need to be decorated. But, she is decorated. Why? She is decorated. She is decorated. This is the description of Priya Ji, of Radha Ji, of Sri Yanki Kanti, of her beauty. Dhruvdas Ji is saying in 42 Leelas, that on her shadow, he is describing the state of her shadow. Your shadow is blackish. On Priya Ji's shadow, millions of suns, millions of lightnings, Kam's wife, Rati, are shining. On her shadow, millions of suns, millions of moons, are shining. Today, doctors say, to see one moon, see with a black mirror. Do not see with naked eyes. Now, we have to see her. How can we see Priya Ji? That is why, she is wearing clothes, So that, we can see her easily. To hide her shadow. He is saying, to increase her love. To increase her love. To increase her love. How can the love increase? Today, red clothes are not looking good. Today, yellow clothes are better. Or blue. This is your love. This necklace was made yesterday. Today, this is better. Today, this is better. This excitement is increasing. Your love is increasing. To increase that, there is adornment. To increase that love, They don't need to be adorned. Surdas says, we have seen naked people today. Surdas, those who don't have eyes, look at their feet. Today we have seen Hari naked. So there will be no beauty in it. In our tradition, it is said, Bhushan bhai, Bhushanani ko. Now if you are given a necklace, what will everyone say? You are looking very beautiful in the necklace. The necklace has increased your beauty. Here it is the opposite. Bhushan bhai, Bhushanani ko. Bhushan himself is getting adorned. Who adorned me? His beauty has increased by a crore. Here it is the opposite. Vrindavan's Leela, Mat Jano Gur Ko Cheela. Here Rishi, Muni, Gaye, Har, Japey Ja, Radhe Radhe. Vrindavan's Leela, Vrindavan's Bhakti, is the opposite of the world's bhaktis. In the world's bhakti, there is the fulfillment of our desires. If you do this, this work will be done. If you do this, this work will be done. Vrindavan's bhakti is that surrender yourself completely. No work will be done. If there is any work in Vrindavan's bhakti, after coming here, if you get worldly facilities, then assume that the Lord is keeping you away from Him. He is trapping you in Maya. And if you are losing in Maya, then assume that He is attracting you towards Him. He is increasing you towards Him. Here, Maya is happiness in the world. You are trapped in Maya. Here, do your dharma. Go straight on your path. Go straight on your path, which has been shown by the elders. Achieve the Lord. Brother, one more example of such a thing, that people say today, it should not be said on your channel, but still, a work of your mind, people say, do good deeds. Brother, we will do good deeds, all our life. In the end, you will get a check of good deeds. You will get a check of good deeds. In which bank will you get that check cashed? A check of good deeds. In heaven. When that check will be cashed, and you will have enjoyed it completely, then you will get a kick like a football from there. Again, you will go around in 84 lakhs, and then you don't know when you will meet humans. And then, whether our mind is towards the Lord or not, where it is, there is no guarantee. Suppose, you have committed a lot of sins all your life. In the end, you will get a check of sins. Where will it be cashed? In hell. Then, after their enjoyment, you will get a kick like a football. Again, you will go around in 84 lakhs. You will get a kick like a football. When you have to get a kick, and you have to come back here, then, we know whether we have enjoyed heaven or hell. Then, if we have to come back in 84 lakhs, then why should we get involved in their affairs, of good and bad? If you don't want to come back in 84 lakhs, then, there is another way. Love. If we love, then what will we get? If we love, then what will we get? If we love, then we will get love only. We will get happiness. You said that we will get love only. No. If we love, then we will get a lover. A lover. Not just love. A lover. And our lover is such that he will not send us anywhere if we don't come back in 84 lakhs. There is no break-up. If we don't come back in 84 lakhs, then we don't have to come back here and become a footballer. Then, we have to stay in their refuge. We say this to everyone. Don't get involved in good or bad. Don't get involved in good or bad. Just love your lover. Don't be the last one. Don't roam around in 84 lakhs. Stay in their refuge. Stay in their service. Then, the body is successful. Then, the body is successful. So, Maharaj Ji, this applies to everyone. Everyone should make themselves new. We are their children who are saying I am not compelling you. I am not pressurizing you to listen to me. Harvansh Ji Maharaj is saying Love everyone. If you ask me, I am touching you and swearing that I am your disciple. I am not pressurizing you to listen to me. If you ask me, where is your refuge? Mine is there. I don't know anyone. Wow! Maharaj Ji, I have a question in my mind. We were talking about Radha Vallabh Ji. She has beautiful eyes. I want to know if you have seen any miracle or if you have seen any miracle that you can share with us. Look, we are not Siddhas who are beating the drum of Siddhaism. We are lovers. If you ask a lover what happiness he experienced will anyone tell you? This is like giving sugar to a dumb person. He will enjoy the sugar. But can he share it with anyone? No. This is the same game. This is Bhakti. Svanata Sukhaye Apne Anand Lene Ke Liye Na Ki Dhendora Peetne Ke Liye This is Bhakti. Bhakti is the one who gives his own happiness. You take his happiness and his pleasure. Do not disclose his pleasure. Maharaj Ji, I want to know you had said that Radha Vallabh Ji cannot have darshan so easily. Why is that? When we have darshan, what difference does it make? Why do we miss the real darshan? Normally, those who go for darshan, those who go for normal darshan, they see Krishna Ji standing next to Radha Ji. Actually, this is not darshan. Dau Man Mile Eka Hi Bhai Sri Radha Vallabh Lal Both are in one. Half Krishna Ji and half Radha Ji. Hitharvansh Hitharvansh Mahaprabhu whose Guru Sri Radha has placed his Guru's throne next to him. Normally, it is said that this is Radha Vallabh Ji and this is Radha Ji. This is not Radha Ji. That is Guru's throne. Both are in one. This is the principle of Hitharvansh Mahaprabhu. Guru and Isht are in one asana. Both are sitting together. Normally, in houses where puja is done, Thakur Ji is sitting above and Guru Ji's picture is sitting below. No. Both are in one. There is no difference. There is no difference. Guru Gandhi is sitting next to him. Those who are doing darshan, Dau Man Mile Eka Hi Bhai Sri Radha Vallabh Lal I just told you that world's bhakti and Vrindavan's bhakti are completely opposite. Prem Nadiya Ki Sada Ulti Wahe Dhar An example In the world one and one two and they use more intelligence. But actually We were using our intelligence here. We are not wrong. We are not wrong. Guru Ji is saying that we are wrong. One and one One plus one is equal to two. But when you will do darshan of Radha Vallabh Lal One plus one is equal to one. Here the formula is that all are fail. You are absolutely right. Dau Man Mile Eka Hi Bhai Two are there but one is there. To do Leela To do Leela If you want to do Leela then two are there otherwise one is there. Now you have a feeling in your mind that Leela of Holi is going on Holi is going on So play Holi to your beloved There is one but how will one team play? It should be there. It should be there. Then with your feeling you made two Krishna Ji here Radha Ji here their team here and their team here and then after Leela then both are there. The first line of Chaturvashi Ji is It is the paradise of love. The first line says Let me tell you a little narrative of this. Radha Ji is saying this to her closest friend that I like what my beloved does. In the next line Bhave Mohi Joyi Do whatever you want and what I like he does nothing else. In the last line Jai Shree Hith Hari Vansh Hans Hansani Saawal Gaur There is a pond in which Hans and Hansani are having fun. Now how to identify who is Hans and who is Hansani? Saawal and Gaur One is Saawal and the other is Gaur. Jai Shree Hith Hari Vansh Hans Hansani Saawal Gaur Kaho Kaun Karere Jal Tarangan Nyare Jal Ko Tarang Se Alag Alag Kaun Kar Sakta Hai Water and waves can be different but when you define then the definition of water will be different and the definition of waves will be different but without them they are not the same. This is the form of Radha Vallabh Lal. Both are the same but when you have to describe then the description of Krishna Ji will be different and the description of Radha Ji will be different. Otherwise both are the same and cannot be differentiated. Maharaj Ji, since your generation has been living in Vrindavan for 500 years then I would like to know that how was Vrindavan before? If we compare it to today then how was it before? I would like to know that. Hitharvansh Mahaprabhu when Radha Vallabh Lal was brought to Vrindavan then it was said that the sun's rays did not touch the earth and Yamuna was very vast and it was said that big ships used to travel in Yamuna. 500 years ago the word ship was used and 6-7 floors ships of 6 floors used to travel in Yamuna earlier there was no road and all the trade was done through the rivers. All the old major cities were on the banks of the rivers. Later when the roads were built then they were developed and earlier all the ancient cities were on the banks of the rivers which was the medium of trade. So Vrindavan was like this. Wild animals at that time Hariram Vyas was a saint he came to Vrindavan in the refuge of Hitharvansh Mahaprabhu He has a poem that is the same period about 500 years ago Now the real Kalyug has come He is saying Now the real Kalyug has come In this there is a line Muthura khudat katat Vrindavan Munijan soch upayo Itno dukh sehebe ke kaje kahe ku Vyas jivayo Vrindavan's banks were being cut Temples were being built Harimansh Mahaprabhu in his lifetime in this Vrindavan did not allow any construction to be done Big kings came that Maharaj make a temple Now behind the king's order who will not agree will have to agree So he found a shortcut that king Temple will be built In that Thakurji will not be able to sit Before that you will die Tell him to build it Because so many legs will be cut So many lives will die All the crime will come on you So without stopping they returned on their own Who is not afraid of dying So they returned without ordering Big kings came at that time But Hariram Vyas After some time Mathura was being excavated There were many excavations in Mathura Vrindavan was being cut Vrindavan's banks were being cut Then Munis said Munis, think about it Think about it Then When no one was able to save them Then they said It is so painful to bear Why have you kept me alive to bear this pain There were many such saints So then Maharajji Where did Thakurji live? In the temple of Lata There was no construction It is mentioned in Pad Lata Bhavan Sukh Seetal Chahan Shree Hari Vansh Rehat Nith Tahan Tahan Vaibhav Anki Vaibhav Ka Barricade There is nothing There is no show Only Pure love There is no show in love The actual thing is Love There are only words left The essence is over Like a drop of dew falls on a leaf And after the sun rises Dew flies away So a small mark is left that dew has fallen So only that is being called love in today's date There is no dew Today only Love is filled with wishes Love is always selfless In which there is no desire We have to give That is love Maharaj Ji, when we go for darshan You are saying that Data does not need anything But in Vrindavan There are so many pedas and sweets Everyone goes with Bhog So I want to know Which Bhog is favourite for Radha Vallabh Ji What is the right way to offer Bhog Should we take something or not And sometimes I will not specify any temple But sometimes when we offer Bhog They say that You should take Bhet So Bhet also goes They do it for their own selfishness It is necessary to take Bhog But if someone wants to feed with love There is a difference in both There is a difference in both In feeding with love And Tell me one thing Let's say Let's say Does Thakur Ji offer Bhog If given with love Then we will eat If his devotees have brought something Do you offer Bhog at home At home we offer Bhog Mother or someone offers Bhog to Thakur Ji Whatever we keep in front of them Does it have A small amount of weight Or quantity But if you keep the same plate in front of you and if you leave even one gusset, why didn't you like it? Are you wasting food? You get scolded. So how are there two emotions in both places? From there, they are very happy that Thakurji has made a mistake. And there, if the child has saved even a little, you are scolding him. So why not scold there? Or why was there satisfaction there and why was there no satisfaction here? Thakurji does not indulge in indulgence. He is not an indulgent person who indulges in indulgence. He is a lover. The love with which you made or kept in front of him, he doubted that much love and emotion and put that much love of his own. That is why the taste of the prasad increases. He does not want that thing. There is no meaning with any object. His favorite enjoyment is love. In our tradition, for Krishnaji, he is called ras lampat. Lampat means greedy. If you call someone greedy, he will fight with you. But here, for him, he is called ras lampat. He is greedy for love. He does not want anything else. So the love with which you made him enjoy, he will only take that love and emotion from it. He does not care about that thing, whether you kept rabri, rasgulla or samosa. He is not seeing that thing. We say, Vivid bhaati vyanjan karo, laun bina safik. You made 56 bhogs and forgot to add salt. Is everything okay? And what is the saying for salt? If there is so much love, he will not leave anything. Then he will enjoy it. Without love, he will not even look at it. I have made so many bhogs. I am distributing them standing there. Did he find it? If someone does this to you, that I gave this to someone, even if I gave him clothes, and he is singing in 10 places, will you wear that clothes? No. Will you take Thakurji? No. What is bhakti? What we like for ourselves, we have to make it more divine for him. What we don't like for ourselves, if you do it for him, it is useless. What we like for ourselves, that the other person should do this with us. Do you want a goon to be our friend? Or a pocket cut to be our friend? You don't want that either? He will also want a lover. You will also want someone to be your lover. You will want someone to be your friend. What you like for yourself, you have to make it more divine for him. Maharaj Ji, in the beginning, we were talking about muhmaya. It is better for people who are more devoted to bhakti. Because they don't take birth again, or whatever you were saying. So, humans, like us, we are already in muhmaya. So, to do bhakti side by side, and to live in muhmaya, materialistic things, can it be done side by side, hand in hand? See, he has given you two things. One is mind and the other is intellect. He has given you mind to put it at your feet, and he has given you intellect to put it in the world. If intellect is put at their feet, then you will fail there, and if mind is put in the world, then you will fail there. Why did he give the knowledge of Gita? First of all, where did he give it? In Kurukshetra. Kurukshetra. This is a Sanskrit word. Kurukshetra means karma khetra, which means your workplace. To whom did he give it? Why did he give it? Because he was afraid of his duty. He was moving away from his work. He had put aside his Gandi. He was asked, why? He is my uncle, he is my uncle, he is my brother, how can I shoot him? And after killing him, how can I rule? At that time, the knowledge of Gita was given only on this. Did he have 18 chapters? He had. But the opportunity he had, he spoke only that much. In that, he was told that if you put your mind there, then you will become a relative. If you had put your intellect, then your enemies would have stood behind you. In support. If they were yours, they would have stood in your support. Will they leave you? Will they leave you? Pick up the bow and shoot. That is, in the world, in the field of karma, in the workplace, you have to use your intellect very well. But when you go to the field of bhakti, then you have to apply emotions in a very beautiful way. There he is saying, the path of karmanyavadhika, the chief of karma, in the world, in the field of karma, he is saying this. But in Vrindavan Upasana, he is saying, bhavot saven bhajitam, bhaav se bhajo. Here, there is no need for intellect. This Vrindavan Upasana, in every institution, there is a need for eligibility. So what is the eligibility to go to Vrindavan Upasana? When you stop doing this work, then there is a chance that you can get admission. Because both things do not work together. Intellect and mind. Will the intellect do it or will the mind do it? Maharaj Ji, Vrindavan is such a place, he does not work there anyway. There the mind works. If the washroom of a particular hotel is bad, he will not stay there. Or if the food of a particular hotel is not good, he will eat there. The intellect is working. The intellect is working. So how will you get Vrindavan? Maharaj Ji, nowadays it has become a fashion that people want to stay in Vrindavan. They are leaving their homes and going there. So according to you, is this right or not? Or are there some rules for staying in Vrindavan? Tell me one thing, if we come to your house, and if we do not follow the rules of your house, then how many days will you keep? There is a rule in your house, that everyone wakes up at 6 in the morning, take a bath, do their prayers, and have breakfast by 8-8.30. When they have breakfast by 8-8.30, then when will they have lunch? Around 12.30? It will not be later than that. And we have gone to your house, we are leaving our bed at 8.30. Then we are asking you to give us breakfast. Around 10.00? Will we be able to get ready by then? If we wake up at 8.30? Around 10.00? Will your routine get spoilt? Absolutely. What will you think? Let's go, our house is bigger. Is this the situation that we are living in Vrindavan? According to us, not a single person is living according to Vrindavan. Just by spitting, they are making Vrindavan dirtier. We are coming to your house prepared. Check the timetable beforehand. What is your routine? How is it? If we meet you 5 minutes before breakfast, if we meet you 5 minutes before lunch, or if we meet you in the car of your house, meet us according to your timetable. If we have come to stay for 2 days, then you can stay for 2 more days. And if we go the other way, if we have come for 2 days, when did you train? Did you get a ticket or not? This is how we are asked. Will you remind us of what is going on there? What is going on there? So that his mind goes there. You have to live according to Vrindavan. You have to be worthy of Vrindavan. By living in your house, you don't prepare by sitting in the examination hall. Preparation is done by sitting at home. Exams are given in the examination hall. Today, 100% people who are coming for Vrindavan, are going to prepare in the examination hall. Will they pass? Maharaj Ji, can you tell those people who are planning to go to Vrindavan? What is the schedule? What is the timetable? What should they do? The most important thing is our nature. What is our nature? Is it in accordance with Vrindavan? What is said in Vrindavan, do we live by that? For Vrindavan, it is being said that whoever comes to Vrindavan, he should be content. On the second or third day, he should eat a leaf or a piece of a leaf. He should be content. It is useless to eat in a restaurant. Today, he will cook at home. As long as the body is tasty, you cannot get Vrindavan. Vrindavan should have the taste of Vrindavan. It should have the taste of Yamuna water. It should have the taste of the air there. Should we stay there? Should we get a room in some Dharamshala or a guest house? We could not get it there. We came for four days, now we will go in two days. The AC is not cooling down. Change the AC. As long as the body is pleasant, you cannot get Vrindavan. Vrindavan should arise above all this. You are not getting a place on the banks of Yamuna. You are putting a lot of effort. Staying at home, try not to go out of Vrindavan even for a moment. Be it Delhi or Bombay, wherever you are living, keep fulfilling your responsibilities with your body, but your mind should not go out of Vrindavan even for a moment. You are doing Parikrama, you are sitting on the banks of Yamuna, you are doing this and that, your mind should keep revolving there. You should come to such a state that you are sleeping soundly at night, someone comes from behind, shakes you and wakes you up. Then the sleep should open up in Vrindavan. If this happens, then come to Vrindavan. Wow! This is the preparation for the exam. Will you sit in the examination hall and prepare or will you write the exam? That's right. And Maharaj Ji, as we have heard, there is going to be a lot of development. So how do you take it? Is it better for Vrindavan? Tell us how it is for Vrindavan. I have just told you that the real Kalyug has arrived. Vrindavan is being excavated and cut. Vrindavan is beautiful. Vrindavan is beautiful not because of the bricks but because of the stones. There are a lot of these buildings in Delhi. Yes. If someone hears the name Vrindavan then what will he think? What will he think? What will the forest be like? Today, there is a concrete forest in Delhi. That is not less. You will find a lot of buildings here. You will find the same things there. There is no difference between here and there. Hmm. For which they are saying that the Raj Shiv Sankadi which I offer to the sun that Raj is also not to be seen. Raj is also getting over. Raj is being constructed. Where will the Raj be? This is the real Vrindavan which you are seeing. But the old people are seeing the same Chirjeev Vrindavan. They cannot see the bricks and stones. They can see the bricks and stones everywhere. It is a matter of perspective. Now if you wear red glasses then you will see red. If you wear green then you will see green. When you were a child Vrindavan was very beautiful at that time. We are saying that what we have seen of Vrindavan, we are not seeing today's Vrindavan. And what we are seeing today, we will not be able to see in the future. We cannot fight with the government to ban construction. Because it earns more money for the government and everyone. We want to pray through your podcast that the government should change the name of Vrindavan. Change the name of Vrindavan and make it a concrete one. Which is visible. At least, it will not be a disgrace to us. Our forefathers, Hritharvansh Mahaprabhu, first came to Vrindavan with Radha Vallabh Lal. In Samvat 1564, Kartik Sudhi 13. From that day till today, the birth anniversary of Vrindavan is celebrated here. On Kartik Sudhi 13. It happens with great joy in Vrindavan. Radha Vallabh Lal rides in the temple. There is a lot of celebration. So, the Vrindavan that was built by them, from where people have taken it today. We repeatedly request the government to change its name. Make Vrindavan a concrete one. The government is putting concrete on concrete. Or completely ban construction. Or change its name. No, Maharaj Ji, we want Vrindavan to always be Vrindavan for everyone, for us. But people do not want. So much construction has been done at this time. For which Shiva Adi is yearning. Shiva Sankadi is begging. He wants to ask, he wants to take. But has not received. He is begging. We have raised it. Will those who come ahead get it or not? For the protection of his Raj. For the protection of Vrindavan. The importance of Vrindavan is from narrow streets. Not from wide roads. From cars. We have seen in our childhood. At that time, there used to be a lot of cars. People used to come by cars. Most of the time, the bus and train used to come by them. Our personal cars were not so much. People used to come to Vrindavan. If a cow is sitting on the road. Inside the city. The car used to stop there. Used to come down on foot. Today, the devotees who are going. Devotees. So-called devotees. Not even devotees. So-called devotees. They are going. If the cow is sitting. Then they will hit it hard and pick it up. Then they will take their car. Because the car should reach the door of the temple. Today there is so much difference. Now we have come to Vrindavan. Vrindavan. Understand. What is it? Vrindavan is not that. So many kilometers from Delhi. And so many kilometers from that place. For Vrindavan. It is said that Vrindavan is on the Aadhar lotus. This is not in the history of 14 worlds. Vrindavan. Three worlds and nine. Nine means different. This is not in the practice of Brahma. This is the love of Lalji and Thakurji. He has established this. To protect it. Today through our trust. We have planted about 50,000 trees. Now we have to plant more than this. But we are getting less support from the government. Because they hear that the roads will be wide. So they can't plant here. They are planting on their side. Still they are planting. They are doing it properly. It is not that they have planted it and left it. Like the government. If you remove a lakh, you will not get that many trees. There is no maintenance. We are doing proper maintenance there. While in Vrindavan, the biggest problem is with monkeys. We will break the net. We will break the tree. Still, ten people are working. The tanker is running separately for water. We are doing all the arrangements. The car owners are such that they will hit the car. They will put it in the back net. They will put it in the front net. They are seeing all the daily losses. But, not in growth. If you make a pure resolve, then the work is going on very well. With purity. Where there will be purity, there will be obstacles. But you will get success. Where there is a mix from the beginning, there is no success. Maharaj Ji, you will talk a little about your disciple. Due to social media, a lot of people are following him. I am talking about Premanand Ji Maharaj. You are his Deeksha Guru. First, let's understand what is Deeksha? How did he consider you his Guru? After giving Deeksha, what do you have to follow? What are the rules of becoming a Guru and a disciple? Radhai Vestam Sampradaya Karta Acharya Mantradah Satgurushcha Mantra U Radha Yasya Sarvatmevam Shri Radha Pad Padma Pradhanam Radha is Isht. Radhai Vestam Sampradaya Karta Acharya Sampradaya's founder is Shri Radha. Satgurushcha Guru is Radha. Mantra U Radha Mantra is also Shri Radha. Yasya Sarvatmevam Yasya Sarvatmevam Shri Radha Pad Padma Pradhanam Yasya Sarvatmevam Yasya Sarvatmevam Shri Radha Pad Padma Pradhanam That is the founder. Hitharvansh Maharaj's Guru is Shri Radha. Hitharvansh Guru created a rule that my elder son's elder son will sit on my throne. Accordingly, we belong to the 18th century and at the same throne we shall not see any such Karma for this life or ..it does not look like we have found this place. It is by their grace that we are sitting at this place. The effort is to maintain it in the same way. Our elders never gave importance to money.. ..nor did they teach that money is everything. The food of both times is by their grace. We are enjoying it. We have been taught that you are sitting here. If after meeting you, someone's mind does not move towards Thakurji.. ..then it is useless for you to sit here. You are sitting here so that after meeting you.. ..your mind moves towards Thakurji. Thakurji will not answer you. You have to answer him. You are the younger God. Accordingly, you have to talk to the other person. He does not need anything and you do not need anything. It is his faith and his feelings that he has to give. You do not have to ask for anything. He never gave importance to money. After meeting you, his mind moves towards God. This is your work. There is no other work. What is Diksha? This was your question. In Braj language, it is said to blow the ears. Have you blown your ears yet? This is said to each other. Did you take the mantra or not? Guruji gives that mantra in the ears. It has to be followed according to the mantra. It is the mantra of the community. You have to chant it. There is no question of counting. Counting has become limited. What are we talking about? Unlimited. It is said that you should try not to lose your breath. In our religion, only those rules work. As long as they work, as long as they are supportive of love. If they are not supportive of love, then the rules are removed. Diksha, blowing the ears, taking the mantra. It is an affirmation of where we are connected. Tilak, Kanthi. From Tilak, you will know where you are connected. Which community are you connected to? Whom are you believing? Not this. It is important to take Diksha. There are a lot of books available in the market. You can bring it home. Can you pass the exam without a teacher? For that, you need a teacher. That is the role of a Guru. Second. These days they say, we have so and so Guru. We will cross on our own. The Guru is also walking in the same line. To reach there. The more load will fall on them, their walk will become slower. That is why no Guru keeps the load on himself. Have you ridden a scooter? What is the work of a Guru? Like a spark plug in a scooter. To start the engine. The engine has the capacity to run at a speed of 10 or 100. It is not the work of a spark plug. It is important to keep the spark plug with you. If the engine stops somewhere, it should be with you. We should not stop. The work of a Guru is like a spark plug. To show the way. Diksha. Bandhana. Today, you must have done a lot on Gau Mata. Gau Mata is very popular. Everyone is worshipping her. There are also protests at many places. To declare Gau Mata as a national animal. Gau Mata is also so revered. It has been told. You worshipped Gau Mata in the morning. Gau Mata was opened by the people of Gau Mata. You are a farmer. You are worshipping Gau Mata in the morning. In a while, Gau Mata will go to your field. What will you do? You will eat Gau Mata. You will pick it up with a stick. You are wearing a necklace. You are carrying something in your hand. Gau Mata comes to you on the road. You will pick it up. Gau Mata is also revered as long as it is tied with a stick. It is the most revered. But as long as it is tied with a stick. You will not be able to pick it up there. It is tied everywhere outside. That's why it is important to tie it with a stick. So that initiation is to tie it with a stick. So Maharaj Ji, since people have seen the video that Prem Anand Ji is doing Tika for you. And you are doing it so lovingly like a kid. Since then, people have come to know that he also has a Guru. Because the people who knew you personally already knew it. So how do you take it that your disciples are doing so much. They are connecting people with God. Through them, so many people are coming to meet them in Vrindavan. They are connecting with Radha Ji. They are chanting Radha's name. How do you feel personally? I feel very good that our child has made so much progress. And it is not the progress itself. Connecting people is the biggest progress. He has shown the right direction to so many wandering souls. He has shown the right direction to wandering souls. We are very blessed with that child that his life has increased a lot and in the same way he has been showing the right direction to so many wandering souls. This is what we have. Because the worship in Vrindavan is the opposite. We get two letters from Hitharvansh Ji written to one of his disciples, Bithaldas Ji. He must have written a lot, but the letters he has received are the same. He is saying to his disciple, Bithaldas Ji that Bithaldas Ji, I am happy to know you. This Guru is saying to his disciple that I am happy to know you. So, this is the situation here. The child has connected so many wandering souls They are adding more and more to it. This is the blessing for them. So Maharaj Ji, if someone wants to take Diksha from you, is it allowed that you can give Mantras or rules to anyone? The old rule is that Acharyas only give Diksha. Now everything has changed and everyone is giving. But the old rule, earlier it used to be that the group of Sadhus used to go to a group of Sadhus. There used to be Kirtan and Bhajan, and there used to be discussions. Now it is coming that whoever they felt was worthy of joining, they used to bring him in their group and make him the Guru Mukh. Now everyone is giving Diksha. It has to change according to the environment. The old rule was this. Now everyone is giving. This is how Diksha has started. So the old rule was this. Maharaj Ji, it was fun talking to you. And it feels like we will keep listening to you. This podcast will never end. But for now, let's end this part 1. If our people enjoyed it, then please comment. We would like to invite Maharaj Ji again. Or this time we would like to come to you and do a podcast there. The environment of Vrindavan will be different. That will be a different thing. Because even the place speaks. Maharaj Ji, please invite us there. Tell us the date and time we will reach there. Vrindavan is not our property. Whatever we invite, it is towards you. When will you move towards that direction? Maharaj Ji, you will not have time. So you will have to take out time. So why are we here? We are here for this. We have been told that we have been given this order. That after meeting you, someone should move towards God. Then it is right for you to stay. Otherwise it is useless. The world is big. Absolutely, sir. We know that after watching this podcast, people will definitely move towards it. And very soon many people will reach you. Radha Vallabh Ji will reach the temple. Come to us. We don't need a crowd. We only need lovers. We only need lovers. Great. So friends, if you have come this far, then definitely share this podcast. Reach as many people as possible. And we will meet you with another interesting podcast. Like, share, comment. We are not saying that you should watch this podcast according to you. Right? Because now we also need a lover on our channel. And we will meet with a new video. Bye-bye. Take care. Radhe Radhe. Radhe Radhe. Shri Harivansh. Shri Harivansh.