The earliest lists of Seven Wonders of the ago by ancient Hellenic tourists. Except for the Great Pyramid of Giza those They were destroyed by earthquakes, fires Many other lists of amazing structures have Here's a look at our list of the greatest Number 30. Lalibela Churches. Built by King Lalibela to be the 'New Jerusalem,' is home to eleven incredible monolithic churches. These were hewn from the top down into living an intricate series of tunnels and passages Of these, the Church of St. George is undoubtedly out of the mountainside. Set in the shape of a Greek cross, the church artworks found within its atmospheric interior. Number 29. Leaning Tower of Pisa. The world-famous leaning tower is known around that makes it seem as if the tower is about The amazing slanted belltower sits behind style. Dating back to the 12th century, the tower began to slant during its construction due Today, the tower - which stands at a wonky far and wide. Number 28. Himeji Castle. The Himeji Castle is considered the best existing It was fortified to defend against enemies rebuilt many times throughout the centuries It survived the bombings of World War II and films, including the James Bond movie "You The white exterior and design give the castle the the castle the nickname 'white egret Number 27. Meenakshi Amman Temple. Meenakshi Amman Temple is an impressive Hindu though most of the present structure was built It is the most important temple in Madurai, Intricate carvings about inside and out; the to a god or person. Though the statues on the towers were once years during festivals, which has created Number 26. Sydney Opera House. Regarded as a 20th century architectural masterpiece, by architect, Jorn Utzon, to reflect the It houses multiple venues that together host Surrounded by the beautiful scenery of the the famous Opera House in Sydney is one of Number 25. Leshan Great Buddha. The Giant Buddha of Leshan is a gigantic Buddha China. Begun in the year 713 during the Tang Dynasty, 803, and was the effort of thousands of sculptors As the biggest carved stone Buddha in the in poetry, song and story. The sculpture stands about 233 feet high and resting hands. Number 24. Golden Gate Bridge. The Golden Gate Bridge is a suspension bridge San Francisco and Marin County to the north. The bridge took four years to build, and was The Golden Gate Bridge was the longest suspension and has become an internationally recognized The famous red-orange color of the bridge more easily visible through the thick fog Number 23. St. Basils Cathedral. Arguably the most iconic sight in Russia, onion domes is set in Moscow's equally iconic St Basil's Cathedral was built by Ivan the The structure is a madly bright lollypop of and look unlike anything else in Russia. Because of its unique architectural style in Tatarstan, the cathedral is a symbol of Number 22. Alhambra. Built on the ruins of Roman fortifications fortress situated in Granada, Spain. For almost 1,000 years, much of the Iberian with Andalusia being their longest-held territory. Today, you can explore its citadel, the oldest explore the amazing Moorish gardens and courtyards, throughout the complex. The setting on the backdrop of the Sierra Number 21. Moai Statues. With the tallest weighing in over 80 tonnes, are iconic. In fact, you'll probably recognize them of them. These 800-plus statues, most of which face ash by the Rapa Nui people somewhere between Likely created using rudimentary basalt stone would have taken close to a year to complete. There are many theories as to why they were clan ancestors and because of a believe it Number 20. Eiffel Tower. Named after Gustave Eiffel, the unmistakable when visiting the French capital. Constructed between 1887 and 1889, the tower entrance to the World's Fair. The tower stands at 324 meters tall and was until the Empire State Building took the title Take the lift all the way to the observation of the Parisian boulevard and pattern of parks Number 19. Abu Simbel. Counted amongst the most majestic monuments rock temples on the western bank of Lake Nasser. The twin temples were originally carved out Ramesses The Great in the 13th century BC, Nefertari. The complex was relocated in its entirety during the creation of Lake Nasser, the massive building of the Aswan Dam on the Nile River. Number 18. Ifugao Rice Terraces. Photographers will want to have lots of memory Ifugao Rice Terraces on the island of Luzon. For 2,000 years, people have been growing of the Cordilleras Mountains. The most famous ones can be found around the They were created by the Ifugao ethnic people Number 17. Neuschwanstein Castle. One of the architectural projects of "Mad" Castle is the quintessential fairytale castle. In fact, it was the castle's soaring spires Walt Disney's Sleeping Beauty Castle. Construction of the castle began in 1869, castle; he died in 1886, the same year of Set in South Bavaria among forested mountains of the castle is as impressive as the building Number 16. Burj Khalifa. The Burj Khalifa is a stunning feat of architecture and a restaurant-bar on the 122nd floor. The world's tallest building pierces the six years after excavations began. Up to 13,000 workers toiled day and night, days. Taking in the views from the world's tallest and a trip to the &quot;At the Top&quot; observation way to do it. Number 15. St Peter's Basilica. The center of the Catholic world, the Basilica With an interior height of 400 feet the space could fit inside, as could the Statue of Liberty. The basilica stands on the traditional site buried. Construction on the current building began Many famous artists worked on the complex the dome while Bernini designed the great Number 14. Borobudur. Crafted out of an impressive two million blocks is the largest Buddhist temple in the world. Dating back to the 9th-century, it eventually in the 1800s. Since then, it has been restored to its former The Borobudur monument consists of six square A pathway of enlightenment leads from the of Buddhist cosmology, the world of forms, It's decorated with over 2,000 reliefs and teaching. Number 13. Temples of Baalbek. Once known as the City of the Sun, Baalbek's impressive Roman ruins around. Of these, the two largest and grandest are Created to be the largest temple in the Roman 54 massive granite columns each of which were Only 6 of these titanic columns remain standing The best preserved temple at the site is the Although the site was pilfered over the centuries significant historical site and is one of Number 12. Acropolis. The Acropolis in Athens is a simply stunning This monumental hill is the location of a the 5th century BC. Some of the attractions that crown the Acropolis and, of course, the Parthenon. Constructed at the peak of the Athenian Empire and impresses with its innumerable columns. After nightfall, the Acropolis is lit up with Number 11. Chichen Itza. One of the most famous archaeological sites city on the Yucatan Peninsula. Built by the Mayans in 600 AD, it was abandoned new capital. Highlights include the Temple of Kukulkan, representing a compass and 365 steps for each It is best visited during the spring or fall on the stairs of the pyramid. Other must-see sites include the Ball Court, that was once a site of human sacrifice. Number 10. Great Wall of China. Spreading through 15 Chinese provinces and is the longest man-made structure in the world. It is made up of a series of separate sections course of six Chinese dynasties as a defense Now well over 2,000 years old, some parts Interestingly, for those who wanted to attempt Wall of China would take approximately 18 [done - ancient ruins] Number 9. Christ the Redeemer. Perched atop the 2,330 feet high peak of Corcovado Redentor" stands with arms outstretched, Construction of the statue began in 1922 during concrete and soapstone statue is considered the world. Most visitors take a vertical cog train to From there, visitors to the monument once top. Today, elevators and escalators are available Number 8. Machu Picchu. Machu Picchu is a magnificent representation came. Nestled in the Peruvian Andes, Machu Picchu and as a site for religious ceremonies where gods. Untouched by the Spanish, the site was abandoned by an American professor in the early 1900s. Built from polished stones, the city is a With its spectacular views, Machu Picchu is Number 7. Hagia Sophia. For almost 1,000 years, Hagia Sophia was the a fantastic structure to set eyes on. Originally built as an Eastern Orthodox Cathedral Hagia Sophia became an Ottoman mosque from to enjoy. The dome of the Hagia Sophia is a marvel in reflective of Byzantine architecture. Walking around the building today, you can its intriguing murals and interesting artifacts. Number 6. Statue of Liberty. The Statue of Liberty, a gift from France Island and is one of the most famous symbols The construction of the statue was completed York the following year. From 1886 until the jet age, it was often for millions of immigrants. Lady Liberty on her pedestal stands at an for views of Brooklyn and Gustave Eiffel's Number 5. Colosseum. One of the most famous buildings ever constructed, Lying in the heart of Rome, the enormous oval greatest architectural triumphs and remains While three stories of huge arcades make up views of the endless seating areas and subterranean lie beneath the arena's floor. Over the centuries, countless gladiatorial battles took place in the amphitheatre, which One of the most iconic symbols of Imperial to its awe-inspiring architecture, spectacular Number 4. Petra. The Rose City of Petra is an ancient desert cliffs by nomads thousands of years ago. Located in Jordan, tucked between the Red the city was once filled with green gardens, Instead, a walk or camel ride through the temples, and tombs hidden within the city The two-story Treasury carved into the rock in the old city. It's worth viewing for the facade alone tomb is worth a look. Number 3. Angkor Wat. Angkor Wat is the most magnificent and largest Built around the first half of 12th century, make it one of the finest monuments in the A huge rectangular reservoir surrounds Angkor rectangular terraces to the central shrine This arrangement reflects the traditional the temple represent Mount Meru, the home Number 2. Taj Mahal. Located in Northern India, the Taj Mahal is by order of the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan The Taj is one of the most well preserved of Mughal architecture. Called "a teardrop on the cheek of eternity", of structures. Besides the white domed marble mausoleum it reflecting pools, and extensive ornamental Number 1. Pyramids of Giza. Arguably the world's most famous landmark, of Cairo, looking out over the endless sands The pyramids in Giza were built over the span of the Old Kingdom. The Great Pyramid of Khufu is the oldest and World. The pyramid is an awe-inspiring 455 feet high nearby Khafre's Pyramid appears to be larger