Hello everyone This video starts with cute 'Mary'. I'm here in the veranda garden to pick some perilla leaves for lunch The weather suddenly got cold, so my feet get chilly when I go to the veranda..^_^ The lunch menu is kimchi stew and salmon bibimbap! Put some aged kimchi and pork belly in a pot. Add 1 coin broth, a bit of kimchi juice, 1 tbsp minced garlic, 1 tbsp chili powder, and 2 tbsp allulose. Also, cut some tofu thinly and add it in. Cut the pork belly into bite-sized pieces. Add green onions and simmer, and the kimchi stew is complete. I'll cut the salmon into cube shapes. I'm making sure to use the last of the salmon I bought from Costco. Chop a bit of onion finely. Roll the perilla leaves and slice them thinly. This is a recipe for salmon sashimi from Ryu Su-young! Add 2 tbsp allulose, 2 tbsp vinegar, 1 tbsp gochujang, and 0.5 tbsp fish sauce. Mix it well. Put rice in a bowl Add plenty of seasoned salmon on top. Top with finely chopped perilla leaves. Place an egg yolk in the center. Sprinkle sesame seeds, and the salmon bibimbap is complete. I'll eat it with some refreshing barley tea! Dong Seo Food is famous for barley tea bags, but they also sell barley drinks. Taking a refreshing sip of barley tea first. I'll break the egg yolk in the bibimbap and mix it well. A bite of salmon bibimbap. It's really amazing how it tastes like spicy, sour sashimi bibimbap It's simple but delicious, so I might make it again if I have leftover salmon. Drinking refreshing Dong Seo barley tea makes it even easier to go down I usually don't drink plain water, so I don't drink much water. But this is tastier and great as a substitute for water! It's made from 100% domestic barley extract, which makes it rich and delicious I had a delicious meal! 'Mary' and 'Yass' kept staring from behind. Good girl, good girl. For dinner, it's autumn's seasonal grilled shrimp I ordered it quickly because it was on sale. Clean the shrimp thoroughly and cut off the horns and mustaches. Shrimp cleaning is done! I'll lay foil on the bottom of the pot. Everyone has about 20 kg of salt at home, right? A generous amount of sea salt. Spread it evenly in the pot. Layer the cleaned shrimp neatly on top. Arrange them nicely. Cover with a lid and grill for about 10 minutes for a simple finish Opening the small ramen stock. I'll add a simple cup noodle to enjoy with it. I'll eat well! I'll save the heads separately to make butter-fried shrimp later. Peeling them neatly and taking a bite. They're perfectly salted and delicious! Peeling shrimp can be a bit of a hassle, but they're so tasty It feels like it's digesting while eating. In the past, I used to eat them with the shells, but I had a big incident where one got stuck in my throat, so I'm making sure to peel them carefully now Put some butter in the pan and fry the heads I saved earlier. They become crispy like snacks, which is a nice treat. I had a simple and delicious dinner! Now that I'm in my late 20s, I've been careful to take my supplements lately. I'm taking kalmadine, prebiotics, biotin, and glutathione. Taking a gulp with some refreshing Dong Seo corn tea. Corn tea is also great as a substitute for drinking water! It has a pleasant flavor, which makes it attractive I'll wrap up the day resting with cute 'Yass' :D Good night Today, I'm harvesting some young radish leaves I'm planning to make hot mushroom kalguksu for lunch! One coin broth, 1 tbsp minced garlic, 1 tbsp gochujang, 1 tbsp chili powder, 1 tbsp soy sauce, and 1 tbsp cooking wine. I'm preparing plenty of chantarelle mushrooms. Slice some shiitake mushrooms thinly. Put the ingredients in and bring to a boil. Instead of kalguksu noodles, I'm using leftover dumpling skins cut up. It feels a bit like sujebi and tastes good! As it boils away, I'll pour in the egg mixture and let it cook to finish. Sprinkle some pepper to complete it. If I eat it like this, there's no protein, so I'll add some chicken breast. I'll eat well! It's raining outside, and the weather is really gloomy. On a day like this, hot soup dishes are the best I really want to eat the soup with rice. Because of my rhinitis, my appetite has slightly diminished, so I've been eating a lot of warm soup. Everyone, take care not to catch a cold... Watch out for rhinitis. After eating, I took a short nap and felt better! Later in the evening, I suddenly craved some fried chicken, so I ordered some An approaching black object. I saw there was a half chicken + cheese ball set, so I ordered it, and it's the perfect amount for one person. I used to have one chicken per person, but I can't do that anymore. I'm getting weak. It felt a bit like the batter was thinner today, which was disappointing. Fried chicken transfusion complete Today, I'll take a shower early and lie down to recover. Watching 'Mary' healing while kneading. I dozed off while watching 'Mary' kneading Getting ready for lunch! A piece of butter on rice, a bit of gochujang. Mix it all together well. I'll put the grilled sausage inside the seasoned rice and shape it. Wrap it like a hot dog. It would taste even better fried, but today I'm making omelet rice! Crack 4 eggs Add a bit of salt and mix well. Heat up the seaweed soup I had prepared in portions. Coat the frying pan with oil. Add the egg mixture and let it cook until fluffy. I actually tried to make a swirl but failed. Cover the rice with the egg blanket. Top with ketchup and sprinkle parsley to finish. An omelet rice with 4 eggs.. I'm so happy It's fluffy and delicious! I've never had gochujang with butter before, but now I know why it's popular. The combination of the rich flavor of butter and gochujang is amazing I heard that making gochujang butter and putting it in pot rice is also delicious, so I'll try it next time! After lying around all day, the two of them woke up at the sound of their owner eating. Drinking water. For dinner, I'm going to make spicy young radish kimchi stew! The young radish kimchi is too soft, so I was worried, but I washed it and am going to make stew which is said to be a rice thief. I'll rinse it clean. Put it in a pot and drizzle some perilla oil. Add just enough water, 1 tbsp soy sauce, and 1 tbsp minced garlic. Instead of anchovies, I'm adding 2 coin broths. Add a little chili powder and cover to simmer well. While waiting, I'm going to make some meatballs for side dishes. Chop the onion finely. 300g of minced beef and 500g of minced pork. Add 1 tbsp minced garlic, 2 tbsp oyster sauce, and 1 tbsp allulose. I kept the seasoning a bit mild. Knead it well. Shape it into bite-sized patties. If you store them in the freezer, they're great for rice side dishes This time, I'll wrap some rice cakes in the middle. Bone-shaped meatballs The chewy rice cake in the middle adds a special touch. I'm also making larger patties for burger-style meatballs. I've made 2 patties. The rest will be used as a side dish today. I'll store the rest in the freezer! Let the stew simmer for about 30 minutes until it's complete Drizzle some oil and grill the meatballs. Brown them on both sides. Stack them neatly in a bowl. Squeeze some ketchup on top. I'll also put the finished stew in a bowl. I'll eat it with refreshing Dong Seo barley tea again! Dong Seo barley tea is made with expertise and know-how accumulated since 1985, making it a healthy and tasty barley tea. The meatballs are very lean, and they pair well with ketchup. The rice cake in the middle is a highlight A bite of the stew. Slurping it down with the warm Dong Seo barley tea. Eating rice + barley tea + stew really brings back my appetite. It feels like homemade food and is delicious The slightly crunchy yet soft texture is appealing. I had a delicious dinner :D 'Yass' is riding the cat wheel, waiting for compliments. She looks up occasionally, asking for praise Let's keep spinning to lose weight and live long and healthy. Today, I'm harvesting some lettuce I'll coat the pan with oil and grill the patty I made yesterday. Brush with teriyaki sauce and grill until golden. I'm going to make a sandwich with the meatball! Slice some cabbage thinly. Put a slice of toasted bread on the magic wrap Spread some craft sandwich sauce on top. Add some green leaf lettuce Place the sliced cabbage on top. Add 2 slices of cheese on the grilled meatball Spread ketchup on the top slice of bread and cover it. Wrap it tightly with the magic wrap. Wrap it up with two layers of magic wrap. Cut it in half, and the meatball sandwich is complete The patty was a bit undercooked, so I microwaved it. The veggies are hot... Instead, the cheese melted perfectly, making it super gooey. Lunch is quickly cleared. For dinner today, it's spicy fish roe soup. I bought frozen assorted roe and fish cakes! First, thaw them in cold water. Cut the radish into small cubes. Chop a bit of onion. Cut the shepherd's purse into large pieces. 1 coin broth, 0.5 tbsp minced garlic, 2 tbsp chili powder, 1 tbsp fish sauce, and 1 tbsp cooking wine. Add the radish and onion. Add the thawed roe and fish cakes. Also, add shrimp And tofu. Bring it to a boil, then add bean sprouts and shepherd's purse to finish. I have some leftover shepherd's purse, so I'm going to make some pancakes with the batter. Put the leftover shepherd's purse in an oiled pan. Pour in the batter and fry until golden. Pancakes go well with pickled onions :D I'll eat well! It's been a long time since I had spicy fish roe soup I like fish cakes, but I think I don't eat spicy fish roe soup often because it has a strong taste. Eating it with barley tea neutralizes the fishy taste and makes it refreshing! Barley tea pairs well with fishy dishes I enjoyed it even more with Dong Seo barley tea Check out the link below to meet Dong Seo barley tea &amp; corn tea I'll quickly eat dinner and then do some autumn night baking I'll refer to 'Jador''s recipe and start by making chestnuts and chestnut paste! Soak the chestnuts in hot water for about 20 minutes, then peel them. Try to remove only the thick skin without taking off the inner skin. If you peel off the inner skin, the chestnuts will crumble later. Add a bit of baking soda and simmer on low heat for about 30 minutes. .....? I'll rinse them and boil again. I'll repeat boiling for 20 minutes and changing the water 3 times (total 60 minutes). Weigh the chestnuts and add sugar equal to half their weight. Add water, cover, and simmer for 30 minutes to complete the chestnuts! As it boils, mash the broken chestnuts to make chestnut paste! Blend them until smooth for a delicious chestnut paste Using the chestnuts I made, I'm going to make the chestnut crumble recipe shared by 'Jinyoung'. Add 120g butter and 90g sugar, and mix until smooth. Add 150g all-purpose flour, 40g almond flour, 4g baking powder, and 2g cinnamon powder. Use a spatula to knead the dough. Take out about half of the dough and spread it on the bottom. I should have lined it with parchment paper, but I forgot Knead the remaining dough to make crumbs. I'll freeze it for about 30 minutes to set. 330g block cream cheese. Soften the cream cheese. Add 75g sugar. Add 1 egg. Add 155g heavy cream. Add 100g chestnut paste. Mix well, and the chestnut cream cheese filling is ready~ Place about 1/3 of it on the dough that was frozen. Top with the drained chestnuts I saved a few chestnuts for future baking. Now, cover it with the remaining cream. Pre-bake at 175 degrees for 15 minutes. The original recipe called for apple jam, but since I didn't have any, I used fig jam instead. Layer some jam on top. Add plenty of crumbs on top (had a slight shortage issue). Bake at 170 degrees for 50 minutes and let it cool completely in the fridge. Chestnut cream cheese crumble is ready You need to line the pan beforehand for a pretty shape... The visual is a bit tragic, but the taste is soft, crispy, and sweet, so it's really delicious! It's my first time tasting chestnuts, and they taste luxurious like premium chestnuts It felt like autumn and was super delicious Ending this video with 'Mary' soaking up the autumn sunshine. That's all for this video! Thank you so much for watching until the end