&gt;&gt; BRADY: Why do so many people hate mathematics? &gt;&gt; Professor Frenkel: Very good question. I think there are several reasons. The problem is multi-dimensional, no pun intended. Imagine that you had to take an art class a fence or a wall but were never shown the Would that make you an art lover? Years later you will talk to your friends I hated art at school, I was so bad at it.&quot; What you would really be saying is &quot;I was And likewise with mathematics people often but what they are really saying is &quot;I was So how do we make people realise that mathematics If you want your kids to understand and appreciate to connect it to our daily lives. Let me give you an example. Say you go on Amazon to buy a book and you How does Amazon come up with these recommendations? Well, there are sophisticated algorithms at correlates you with other users who are deemed Then all this data is processed and you're Now, I'm not saying that this is necessarily we have to be aware of this. We have to be aware of these algorithms invading on mathematics. &gt;&gt; Brady: You and I live in houses and we mean we need to know how to lay bricks. &gt;&gt; Professor Frenkel: That's right. &gt;&gt; Brady: So why, just because we - just because in our lives, why does that mean we have to &gt;&gt; Professor Frenkel: That's a very good point without necessarily understanding the, you But there is a difference, and first of all literature and art and to have a fulfilling But also, because mathematics is becoming opportunity for misuse of mathematics and mathematics. There are many examples of that, global economic of mathematic models. Which one could argue often were used by, did not fully understand them. What if we lived in a world in which a, say I don't get this stuff but as long as it works, What if in fact that person would say &quot;OK, how this model works.&quot;? There's this great quote by a great German of mathematics lies in its freedom.&quot; But, I would augment this with the following; freedom. So mathematics is essential to our freedom, That's why it's not just about finding out to know about because, you know, 'who cares? As long as they work.' I think that our ignorance can be misused know, the citizens in this brave new world, We have to know and appreciate its power to &gt;&gt; Brady: The art world tells us we should An English professor will say we need our Computer scientists will say we need to understand The mathematicians are telling us we should [laugh] We've only got these finite brains and only mathematics above the others? I know you're a bit biased. &gt;&gt; Professor Frenkel: Well first of all I'm But also, I would say that art for example, So the situation was, people don't go to art We know that, not everyone goes to that, not But at least people know that there are, there If you say the word art, they don't think van Gogh and Picasso and Leonardo da Vinci. So they know that at least, if they ... whenever to go, where to find those paintings. Or they can go online and find those paintings, In the case of mathematics they are not even the way that they are aware of the existence Art of course is important because it speaks world and about ourselves. But in a way, one can survive without art, Everything is based on mathematics; it is &gt;&gt; Brady: Well, let's apportion some blame, It sounds to me like you're blaming high school You were saying, you know, back in our school of showing us Picasso. &gt;&gt; Professor Frenkel: Well, if I really were myself and my colleagues. Professional mathematicians. We don't do nearly enough, exposing these Often times we're not willing to come up with science should be communicated. You have to communicate science in a way that That links to something people already know. And I feel as though other scientists are We keep talking about the solar system about and molecules, elementary particles and DNA. Those concepts are no more complicated than Why is it that, you know, DNA and stars and discourse but mathematical ideas are not? Well, in part because we are not doing nearly We professional mathematicians are not doing I don't blame the teachers because, you know, position often times because they are, you themselves are products of the same flawed My solution is that, first of all, more mathematicians secret. Because it's really almost like a secret and of keeping this secret, and I don't want that I want everyone in on the secret. I want everyone to realise there is this beautiful our daily lives, which possess the, you know, We have to convey this idea; we have to find And then, you know, we have to also work through We also have to help teachers to learn the connects with the real world, so that they more enjoyable, more fun, more interesting. &gt;&gt; Brady: Why has that not happened? It sounds so obvious. What you've said is not like a huge conceptual Why has this not already happened? &gt;&gt; Professor Frenkel: What has it not already Well sometimes I wonder myself, why has it It's almost a conspiracy, I mean honestly, that has been created which distorts, you Which does not allow most people to see what And let's face it, how many more things are We can't be the first to discover another to step on the moon. But what if I told you there is this beautiful travel anywhere to find it? It's right at your fingertips. Wouldn't you want to go and find out more And if you do this in the right way you will know, running to class! Not away from the class but running to the I want to find out more. I want to talk to my peers, to my classmates This is the coolest stuff in the world, that's &gt;&gt; Brady: Coolest stuff in the world? And yet, everyone hates it? &gt;&gt; Professor Frenkel: And yet everyone hates Isn't it ironic? &gt;&gt; Brady: If you'd like to hear more from this is his book 'Love and Math'. You can't have this one, this one's mine, the ways you can do that is through the sponsor Biggest range of audio books you can image, As you probably know by now you can go to you can download a free book and it could So if you're going to check them out go to time to pick your free one, Love and Math. I'm sure he'd appreciate it.