(cows mooing) (helicopter whirring) - Rip, we got stragglers in the timber. - Yeah, we're coming at you. You got stragglers in the trees, I ain't asking your I'm telling you, now let's go. Keep up, let's go. - I thought you said running the horses makes - What do you think that chopper's doing? Now let's go, keep up, come on. (horses trotting) (helicopter whirring) - [John] We got a pretty Let's swing 'em out wide. (helicopter whirring) (horses trotting) (horses neighing) Oh, Jesus Christ. - Go catch your horse. Get up! - Somebody get Jimmy's horse. - Lloyd, help the shit for - this way, god dammit! (horses trotting) (cow mooing) - How come you can't rope like that when we're roping for money? - Then I'm thinking about - [Rip] It's not supposed to be fun. Fucking practice. Walker, Jimmy, get your asses in there. - Yeah, on a scale of one to 10, how bad's the luck from - Bout as bad as changing - [Jimmy] Hey, what's this horse's name? - [Cowboy] Jimmy, you've been for a month and you still It's Ray! - I thought you rode Ray. - Nah, I ride Owen. - Alright, well that's not - Jimmy, I went to prison for seven years. I'd say you're probably I've ever met, that's (horses trotting) (cows mooing) - I got him! - Hell yeah, Jimmy! - Look out! - Let go of the fucking rope! (Jimmy shouting) (dirt rustling) (horses trotting) - That's why we take - [Jimmy] I put my hat on the - Jimmy, you need to stop listening to those yahoos in the bunkhouse. There ain't no such thing as luck, but I sure believe in stupid 'cause you prove it every fucking day. Now get your stuff and let's go. Get up. (Jimmy groaning) - Where's my hat? - She wants to ride up there with us. - All right, well go grab her horse. - All the good ones are up at camp. The only thing left here is a bunch of freight trains and monsters. - Well, what the fuck is - Well, that's my horse. - [Rip] Okay Monica, get on Jake's horse. Come on. - What? - We don't have time for this Let's go. (intense music) (horse neighing) (intense music) - His horse seems a bit angry. - Yeah, a little bit. You got it, Jake. - Why did he pick that one? - You know what, Monica? He ain't the sharpest tool - I want my God damn good horse back. - Oh, now that looks fun. - Monica, I don't think Hey, hey, Monica, God dammit! (subtle country music) - Fellas, thanks for helping out. - How do you plan on doing this? - Rip, have you figured out how to do this without all us getting trampled? - [Rip] Best we came up with, Let's get up there as fast as we can and just chase them sons of - Fuck it. That's your plan too, fuck it? - It's gonna be a shit May as well do it fast, less - Your logic is so flawed, son, it, hell, it almost makes sense. - Great. - All right. Fuck it. (dramatic country music) (horses trotting) (intense music) (intense dramatic music) (horses trotting) (cowboys shouting) (horses trotting) (intense dramatic music) (horses trotting) (cowboys shouting) (horses trotting) (horses trotting) (horses neighing) (intense dramatic music) (horses trotting) (horses neighing) (horses trotting) (cowboys whistling) (horses trotting) (subtle music) (horses trotting) - I thought for sure someone - Yeah, I thought someone was dying. - You know I got half a mind to run up that hill and do it again. (all chuckling) I can't see any angels, - You're gonna buy him? - Maybe. - [Tate] We already have - I got a lot of using horses. Two ways to make money on a ranch. Sell cattle or market horses. I don't have a horse to market. - How do you market a horse? - Send them down the road so I ain't just looking I'm looking at the rider too. - Are these the best riders? - Best in the world. Nice horse, Bob. - Thank you, sir, he's a good one. - You gonna keep him on - You know I'm trying to enjoy my life. You buy him, you show him. - [John] Don't wanna show - [Bob] You know you've got a arena full of world champions out here. You could close your eyes, Any of those boys are gonna I've got a beach in my sights. I'm gonna stick my toes in the sand. - Save me a seat, would you? - You got it. - He don't look too done to me, does he? - Dad, we do not need- (horse trotting) Wow, that's a nice horse. - Expensive taste runs in the blood. - That's the only way my dad will get it 'cause he's broke as hell. - Hey, stay away from the bunkhouse. - Head of the office, huh? - Yeah. (truck rattling) - You old softy. (horse banging) He's been kicking the shit out of this bloomer ever since we left the ranch. - He deserved to have his last Easy boy. Didn't seem to like living I gotta say, the feeling is mutual. Hope you like it better here because you ain't welcome back. (footsteps crunching) I'm getting married. - Yeah, I've been wondering - I need a best man. - Kayce's her brother, fixing to be yours. - Mm. - [Lloyd] Should ask him. - Probably so, but I (subtle emotional music) (horse trotting) (subtle emotional music) (subtle emotional music) - What did this fucking thing cost? - That is sexy. - No, that's sexy. - What did them fucking things cost? - More than the truck. If it's love, then pretty baby I'd say that I - This is gonna be worth watching. 'Cause I ain't got But what I got, I'll spend on you And this feeling in my Even if I wanted to If it's love, then pretty baby I'd say that If it's love, then pretty baby I'd say that I 'Cause I ain't got But what I got is oh so sweet I ain't got much rhythm in my waltz But when I'm with you, If it's love, then pretty baby I'd say that I If it's love, then pretty baby I'd say that I Oh, I got all you need - Some damn good horses right there. All that you need (dust rustling) - Those all yours? - Are now. - Well, Travis put one hell (horse trotting) God damn. (dust rustling) - Just once, I'd like to - If you tried to stop a horse like that, it would lawn dart you - What, no. Have you trotted a horse 'Cause you look like a drunk - What, what are you talking about? (upbeat country music) - Spinning son bitch. - Yee fucking haw. - That's the difference between 5,000 and 300,000 right there. - Travis, let me run - You bet, for $300,000. - [Ryan] Come on, just once. - This is a you break it, you buy it kind of situation here, brother and you can't afford to buy it. Nope, only race car - You look like a kid in a toy - Darling, those are some of right there in front of us. (dust rustling) - Well, that's my inheritance I'm glad someone's enjoying it. (subtle country music) (subtle country music) (subtle country music) - Can't be here. - I'm livestock commissioner, These horses are property of the Confederated Tribes of Broken Rock. - These are Mustangs, we - Mustangs don't have shoes and brands. - Son of a bitch. - Yeah. - We herd them with a helicopter. Don't get that good a look at - Trailer 'em to go where? - Auction, I guess. Some go to the prison. - These don't, they're gonna come with us. - Got proof they're yours? - Stolen, you say? - Yeah, somebody cut a hole in a fence, tried to herd 'em with dirt bikes. I guess they didn't wanna be herded. - Damn right they don't. Pain in the ass getting them in here, took two choppers and half a damn day. Look, you know how the When the wheels are in motion, Supposed to herd them out Friday, but if you get them out before, so be it, but I don't know how you're gonna do it. You can't get a truck back here. You damn sure can't do - [Kayce] We'll see what - Figure it out by Friday. - You got any ideas? - I got an idea. - Care to share it? - This idea is hard to explain, (subtle country music) (horses trotting) - Shit. (horses trotting) (subtle country music) (horses trotting) (subtle country music) (subtle country music) (subtle country music) (music fading out) (triumphant music) (cowboys shouting) (cowboys shouting) (horses trotting) (horses trotting) (people cheering) - Where's the cattle? - Well, they only hide in the pines when they're hiding from the sun, so it ain't quite hot enough yet. Never far from water, - There's cattle. - Hey, hey, hey, hey. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. We're just gonna walk at 'em, okay? Just walk right up to 'em. If you run at 'em, they're and then the chase is on. There'll be plenty of chase soon enough. - I mean, I'm ready to chase right now. - Yeah, I can see that. Let's go. (subtle emotional music) - Hey, hey, hey! (subtle emotional music) (cows mooing) (subtle emotional music) (subtle emotional music) (subtle emotional music) (wind whooshing) (subtle emotional music) - I'm gonna let 'em graze here. I'll send some of the and they'll settle in the - Alright, well then find that we can run a picket line. - Yes, sir. - I can't believe you're not smiling. - I'm smiling on the inside. - Don't ever call this work, okay? Ever. - You bring your fly rod? - Thought you said no fishing. - Yeah, well I didn't know we was gonna get 'em held up so quick. - If we're not careful, John, people are gonna think - Hey, you didn't think to - Of course I brought my fly rod. - I think my grandson would - No need. Tate, come with me. We're gonna tie these - All right. - Come on. - Let's go. Hey. - Ah. - He needed this. - Yeah, we all needed it, son. - That was fucking awesome. Sorry, Governor. - Tell us how you really feel. - It was fucking awesome. Sorry again. What do, what do we do now? - Well, I'm gonna go find me till it's my turn to watch the herd. - I'm too excited to nap. - You'll grow out of that. You get yourself on the make sure these cattle stay on our side. - All right, yes, sir. - You could sell it, son. You could bottle it up and sell it. - I don't think there's Anyone who knows what it's - Maybe so.