Well hello there and welcome to this episode with a question. Do you struggle with post boundary setting Do you finally find the courage to say the or set a limit and then you torture yourself Well, my friend, this episode is for you because is how we can more deeply understand post But then what can we do about it? Because a lot of times that guilt is the thing back or the boundary request back, which you the request, obviously it's something that So before we get into it, if you happen to Introduce yourself. We are a very friendly group. Make sure that you subscribe and that you We roll out new episodes every Tuesday and a solo episode. Every Thursday it's me interviewing an expert or someone that you guys have told me that So I do that on Thursdays. So if you hit the bell icon, you will get time something new rolls out. And I wouldn't want you to miss a thing. Shall we move it into today's content? I think we shall. All right. So with boundaries, right? We all need 'em. It's important that we all have them, right? Let's just establish what they are, what I My definition is I want you to think about as your own personal rules of engagement. It lets other people know what's okay with Your boundaries are made up of your preferences, preferences, desires, limits, and deal breakers. So it's important that we're all sort of on So what happens when we have disordered boundaries? Well, it means sometimes that we let people If you're like a house without a front door, and come out and take your stuff and do whatever too porous. And you may go the other way because disordered There are also rigid boundaries. So if you're someone who is very much like who, if somebody pisses you off or hurts your your life completely than you are to tell having more of a rigid disordered boundary Either way, we need boundaries in our life our boundary requests to others. That's so much of the work that I do. So much of what is in Boundary Boss and hey, Workbook, which is coming out right now, like The Boundary Boss Workbook comes out October It's amazing. You guys are gonna love it. You can go to boundarybossworkbook.com and So you definitely want to go do that right I'll wait. Boundarybossworkbook.com. Okay, so thank you for ordering the book. I appreciate that. You're going to love it. Now, moving into what gets in the way of us One thing is boundary guilt, which is what of you tell me I wanna set a boundary, but after the fact. So what I want you to think about, we're gonna along with this episode, don't worry, there'll You can get that at terricole.com/guide. We're gonna get really dialed into what are of times we misname our feelings, and you You may believe that drawing boundaries or and that would inspire guilt. But that may not be it. I want you to think about when you say, I really afraid? Is it fear or anxiety presenting as guilt? So think about that, because a lot of times, the two up where I would think it was guilt I didn't want someone being mad at me. I didn't want to be rejected by anyone. You know, there was all of the reasons why Especially if you identify as a highly sensitive Because we deeply feel other people's feelings. And so when we disappoint other people, it's If you're not an empath, and I'm not saying, sure. But when you're an empath, it hits different, that other person's feelings when you're an So it can be really terrifying to set a boundary as an HSP. And I think that a lot of times we self-abandon deal with it, right? And we want good relationships. A lot of times why we will self-abandon, meaning though that's not what we wanna do or not of times we will do that because our highest But here's the thing, you cannot self-abandon That's not how it works. Because as we self-abandon, we are building person. Part of the skills we need to grow in order fear or anxiety, is we really have to self-reflect But also we have to self-reflect on how our Because if we're always sort of the last on to be abandoned, so to speak, because we're you up to have a very good relationship with You have to think about it from the perspective a high functioning codependent who has spent saying yes to all the people- saying no now of fear, right? You might feel bad or selfish for saying no, dynamic within yourself- 'cause really this What you're experiencing when you draw a boundary guilt parade by yourself, that is an inside That other person, if you don't say anything for you. You have to question that guilt. Is it really wrong for you to prioritize what Is it really wrong? And I think we really have to know, &quot;what right? What do I actually need to do?&quot; Really, How do I take care of myself? You know, when I think about how I was in I felt obligated to people, I felt loyal to Like, you know, this is my own stuff that Like why would that be? Why would I feel obligated to help virtual You guys will hear different unbelievable next book on high functioning codependency the end of 24. But that was something that I had a lot of Just as that loyalty or that obligation was I barely knew as to the high priority people So feeling guilty or feeling obligated and boundary is something we really have to look Is it because I think it's wrong, what I'm And that's really where we're going to get Because listen, sometimes we can make a mistake. Sometimes you could mistake a demand or something and they're not the same thing. So this is why being fluent in the language of boundaries is so important. Because when you're not, people a lot of times And I'll say, that's not a boundary, though. What you're talking about right now is a demand, So part of where we really wanna make the or rules we set for people to interact with But they're for us. So people can choose to yes, interact with Maybe they say, I don't accept your boundaries. And then you have to decide what that means So the reason why when I was writing Boundary boundaries as preferences, desires, limits, requests are the same. Meaning they don't all carry the same weight I think, one of the most important things guilt is to be dialed back into your intention. Why are you setting this boundary and why So much of the time it's to protect ourselves So when you get really clear that your heart anything to be mean, that you're not doing have to prioritize the way that you feel, for many of us, guilt is a default emotion, It's just one where you automatically feel or not. It's appropriate to feel guilt if you've done Why? Because that will inspire us to take a reparative So there's nothing wrong with guilt. But this isn't that kind of guilt. When we have excessive guilt around setting It's about something else. And it's about, I think a lot of us are over-givers. A lot of us are high functioning co-dependents. A lot of us are giving all the time. And so putting a line in the sand or setting and yet you're actually not. So I wonder and I want to hear from you guys. What are your biggest struggles with post And I'll give you some other ideas in the Just go to terricole.com/guide. Also, remember the Boundary Boss Workbook We've got amazing bonuses. You do not want to miss these, so go to BoundaryBossWorkbook.com You know, we've got a whole bunch of events So if you've been on this trip with me, thank And if you're just joining this trip, welcome. I hope you guys have the most amazing week. And as always, take care of you. Thank you so much for all your comments and I love them all. You know I read 'em all and I love to highlight So this is from Jackie Nahuel and this is Blocks and How to Overcome Them. And Jackie says, &quot;This is so amazing! Thank you so much. I'm sure you know how helpful your videos only watch a few of them and I feel like I'm I really appreciate your warmth and approach It makes a difference &quot; Well, Jackie, thanks. And you know what is funny? I feel like I'm in the room with you guys, do what I do because really, you are my north You are my shining light. You guys are the reason I do it all. 'Cause I could be doing other things in life, that that's why I do what I do. So Jackie, thank you for taking the time to come and read comments and that impacts how A lot of times you'll share like this episode, thank you. I really appreciate it.