Hello everyone, today I share how to quickly root orchids with a very simple method. Stop watering these orchid pots and cut them horizontally. If like this part, the roots are still good. will restore small plants , but once the roots are damaged, it is impossible to restore these rotten leaves. They should be removed in all cases to restore orchids. They must be washed thoroughly to create favorable conditions for orchids. recovers very quickly , dry it and use an onion that has antibacterial properties, helps the plant root quickly. Use the peel of an onion, put everything in a jar, add 0.5 liters of boiled water , wait for the water to cool . Then filter the water and add 0.5 liters of water. Use this water to wash the leaves. This will help keep the orchid leaves free of fungus. Dry them, add this water and soak for 20 minutes , then take them out and put them in a cool place. 1 day and 1 day has passed and the base of the plant has dried up. Use a plastic bottle and cut it like me and a piece of cotton to absorb water . Place it in this part of the plastic bottle , then place it here. Put the orchid root in and add water. This part will absorb water, helping to keep the base of the tree moist but not too wet. Just check to add water. If the water is dirty, change the water. Place in a cool , dry place . Spray with mist to keep it moist every 3 days after 45 days. days, the roots have developed very well depending on the flower variety, some are fast plants, some are slow, so with these methods you need to be patient, the roots have grown very healthy with this simple and very easy way to create new leaves. has grown very green and this leaf is very green and sturdy. This is a great method for orchids that only have 1 leaf left. Now it will be very reassuring to replant this orchid. pine bark Hello everyone, in order for orchids to always have more flowers blooming, more beautiful and vibrant, the plants need to grow well and the roots play a very important role to always be healthy today. Share how weak, withered orchids and damaged orchid roots can be revived with healthier and greener roots when an orchid has withered and cannot grow. The reason is Because these roots are damaged, the plant cannot metabolize and the growing medium is very wet. Remove all the old growing medium. Cut off all damaged roots. You need to check carefully. Clean these parts of the plant and wash them. Cleaning all orchids thoroughly will help the plant recover faster because these weak orchids have very poor resistance. Wipe them thoroughly dry. If these leaves have insects, how to do it? This will be removed very quickly , helping the orchid recover very quickly. Use 1 onion. Use the peel of an onion and cut it into small pieces, put all the onion peels in a jar, add 1 liter of boiling water and wait. Once the water has cooled, filter it to remove residue. Use 4 tablespoons of rice which contains a lot of Vitamin B and contains a lot of nutrients, very good for orchids. Add to 1 liter of water. Add this rice water to use. Use a soft cotton pad and wipe these leaves. This will help the leaves recover very quickly. When they recover, the leaves will not get fungus and the insects will add adequate nutrients through the leaves, helping leaves like this to be healthy. better protected, put all these roots in, put this water in and leave it like this for 25 minutes. Use the remaining water so we can take care of other orchids, it will help the orchids recover. Anise and the revived plant will be healthier and the roots will grow very quickly. Apply this method every 14 days. You can also put it in a spray bottle and spray directly on orchids to help underdeveloped plants . will always be greener and the roots will also be healthier Should be applied in the early morning to afternoon when the leaves will dry and the plant will be protected more strongly. Then take the orchid plant out and dry it again and leave it in a cool place for 1 day after 1 day, when these roots have been dried. dry, it will be very reassuring to help the tree recover faster and easier. Use plastic cups and place the roots in like this, add water to the water just touching the roots, helping the tree stump to stay healthy. moist but not too wet, just check to add water and place it in a light and airy place, spray mist to help keep the plant moist every 3 days with this simple method, after a period of 1 month the leaves will be greener, healthier faster, the tree will revive with very strong roots, the tree will develop roots very quickly when in a domestic environment. You can see more with the methods that I have shared. The roots always grow. To grow healthily with this method, wait for these roots to grow longer and develop better before replanting the tree. To help the tree grow faster when in the outside environment, you need to check to cut off damaged roots. And the dry leaves must be removed. Pour out this water. Put all the roots in. Change the water . This simple method will revive the roots of the orchid very quickly. Hello everyone, to easily grow plants. Orchids grow healthily, have many flower buds, flower buds grow quickly, flowers are always beautiful and vibrant and stay on the branches longer. Today I share a simple and easy way to keep orchids healthy. To be green and healthy, the flowers will bloom beautifully every 10 days all year round. Water the plants with plenty of water to help keep the roots and growing medium moist, which will help the orchids grow very quickly . Leave it for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes, take it out and use the dry skin of an onion, which contains a lot of vitamins and very good nutrients, to help orchids grow very quickly and this is one of the organic substances. very safe and sustainable for orchids, put in 1 liter of boiled water, cover and wait for the water to cool. For orchids when you buy them or plants that have been planted for a long time but still do not grow and have no flowers, do this. Repot the plant. These damaged roots should be cut off after the onion peel water has cooled. This organic nutrient is very rich. Filter out the residue. Put this water into a spray bottle and spray directly on these leaves. It will help. Eliminate fungus and insects and help orchids stay green. Apply this method in the morning and do not apply at night to help orchid leaves stay green. Remember to spray under the leaves. Because the underside of this leaf is where a lot of bacteria and fungi gather, do not use this water to spray on the flowers and irrigate the base of the plant. Apply it twice a month and the plant will always be green and grow very quickly. and leave for 25 minutes, it will protect and keep the roots healthy and will help weak, underdeveloped orchids when replanted, the plants will be very green. Spray directly on these roots very effectively to help Weak plants are always revived with healthy roots and green leaves that can be mixed with other fertilizers to care for orchids. Using this water and wiping the leaves of orchids like this will help the plants. increase resistance and when replanting the plant will recover, grow quickly, the plant will not be infected with fungus, insects are very effective. It is also a very effective way to remove dirt on orchids to help the leaves stay green. It is better to add this water. Soaking these roots for 25 minutes will protect and help the roots recover and newer roots will grow very quickly, the roots will not be infected with fungus, then you take them out and always place the orchids in a safe place. In places with light, away from direct sunlight, the leaves will always be green and the plants will always be healthy. The roots will develop better. This type of organic nutrition is very sustainable and will help your orchids stay greener. healthy This method will help orchids always have many beautiful blooming flowers all year round. When replanting orchids like this , the plants will recover and grow very quickly. Now you can rest assured to replant them. With the smart case, we have more subtitles, you can watch and choose the suitable subtitles, don't forget to like, share, subscribe to the Channel and press the bell for easy viewing. Good bye and see you again. I wish you every success