- How should you explain being let go from your previous Let's learn about it. Hi, my name is Matt and I'm a career coach at Elevation Career helping you to achieve all your career advancement goals through practical top-notch training. Being let go can be a tricky subject to discuss in the interview. So in this video I'm gonna in such a way that you in the best light possible, regardless of your To start, There are largely two ways someone can be let go from from a company. The first way is being laid off, which means the employee due to the changes of the employer, due to the changes that the employer has decided to make on its end. Usually, though not always, through no fault of the employee. And the second way is being fired. Being fired means that the company considers the employee's to be the cause of the termination. In most such cases, there indicating the same too. We will cover both And I will also provide sample answers that you can reference or so make sure that you watch until the end. With that, let's get started. Number one, being laid off. As I said earlier, being the employee has lost his or her job due to the decisions and the Examples of a reason for layoff could be restructuring, reorg, large or budget being canceled, companies being merged or acquired, and location strategy change. For example, if a company their Asia headquarter and as a result, terminates employees in the previous location, that would be a case of a layoff without any fault of the employees. So how do you explain being laid off? First of all, being laid and you shouldn't worry about it because things like changes in plans, and et cetera are relatively common these days and unfortunately they So treat it like a neutral incident. You don't have to feel bad and just explain it in The main thing you need to is to explain the reasons clearly. Was it because of restructuring? Tell them that. Was it because of changes in plan, reorg, new management, et cetera? Make sure that you explain it clearly, so that there is no misunderstanding and the new potential of the circumstances that were outside of your control. This is so that the new that the layoff had and that it was purely Sometimes a layoff can be due so you want to make that was not the case. Another thing that you probably wanna do is providing some context. What I basically mean is letting the employer know were affected as well beside yourself. If there was a major restructuring and 90% of your team Because if 90% of the team was versus only 10% has completely If your previous employer was acquired and 50% of the department was laid off, you want to talk about that. You wanna explain that to the employer, to the interviewer, so that they know you were not the only This kind of context again, the layoff had and that it was purely due to the previous company's that you had little to no control over. And that is how you Number two, being fired. As I said, if somebody is fired that means the employer and or performance to be the reason, to be the cause for termination. And frankly speaking, this And being fired can be You may feel like you may never be able to find another job again. But if you're in this Do not worry too much. There are still ways to The important thing to remember is that we all make mistakes. We all make mistakes one way or another and there's nothing we can do about what has already happened in the past. The only thing, and perhaps the best thing that you can do is to recognize mistake, learn from the mistake and so that it won't happen again. And that is what you want to emphasize in your response as well. First, you don't have to sound That may only highlight the or exaggerate the magnitude of the problem in the employer's mind. Instead, you wanna as you explained what happened. Number one, talk about your intentions that were not malignant. Basically why you made And number two, take And then number three, set your focus on the lessons you learned and how you were able to grow so that you won't make Also, one thing that you do not want to do is to shift blame, blaming the employer, or your colleagues or the circumstances. Of course, there is no need and you should explain clearly But you wanna do so in the right tone, in a neutral and professional way, instead of with a complaining That is because doing the impression that you own up to their own mistakes and that you haven't from this experience, of making the same mistake Regardless of whether it was and whether it is fair or not, there are always things that we can take responsibility for and work on. Again, there's nothing that we can do about what happened in the past or what others have done The only part that we is how we choose to respond, and resilient people In the same way, what you what you're able to learn, and how you are able to grow as a result, and the kind of person you have become. And what you have done to ensure that you do not repeat the There are many reasons why someone may be involuntarily terminated. In any case, what the is how you dealt with and how you grew from the experience. Being honest and taking can turn a potentially major issue into a redemptive story that shows that demonstrates both Acknowledge your past mistakes, explain how they major a better person, and transition into Most of all, do not allow your Remaining positive and is the key to help the Before I finish, as promised, that you can easily reference. Here we go. First, let me start with for explaining being laid off. I left my previous company Because of the firm's decision to reduce their investment in the region, around 60% of my team was let go. During which time I was also affected, despite my excellent performance review just a few months prior. My previous employer their regional headquarter from Hong Kong to Shanghai last year. I had a great relationship and they offered me an but in the end I decided to My previous position at following the firm's decision to outsource my entire team offshore, which is why I am looking The next two sample answers are The first one is for and the next one is for an IT engineer. Obviously, whether you are in sales or in tech is not the point here, as everyone's specific These examples I hear so of how to structure your response and explain what happened according to what we My last role at XYZ was Even though it was my I was given challenging goals I could not meet my target leading to my termination. I have always been hardworking, but it's also true that I and knowledge to be successful. I realized that if I wanted to I needed to take ownership and make tangible changes and improvement. I started reading and studying by industry leaders, such as Zig Ziglar, Brian Tracy, and Tony Robbins. Through them, I recognized key areas that I needed to improve including overcoming my fear of rejection, staying optimistic, taking and better time management. Even though it was a I know that I have become a much stronger and more mature salesperson as a result. With my work ethic combined with crucial fundamental sales knowledge, I am eager to prove myself again and make a tangible The next one is a sample When I was working at when a major incident happened that severely affected the business. We were under a lot of pressure but we were not able to because the person in In my attempt to help the business, I decided to access the production code and fix the problem directly, which ended up resolving However, the next day I was informed that there will be disciplinary because I accessed the production which eventually led to my termination. Even though I was just trying now I fully understand that I should have considered the and that there are very good reasons for the structured processes in place. I recognize what I should have to more senior managers in the and do a better job in managing Although it was a difficult experience, I believe I am now a more who is much better high pressure situations the right way. If given the opportunity, even more value than before by applying the important lessons that I learned. To recap, when you're number one, explain it in a neutral tone. Number two, explain the reason clearly, so there is no misunderstanding. And lastly, provide some context, especially if a significant percentage of the workforce was affected. Basically what's happening And when you are explaining being fired, if you're explaining being number one, talk about Number two, take responsibility And lastly, focus on and as a result how you Thank you so much for watching. Again, I understand this to talk about, but sometimes and I hope that you are able to learn, get some idea as to how and how to explain your situation in the best light possible. Hope you like this video. If you did, please click and please consider subscribing. It would mean a lot to me and encourage me to keep Hope to see you in the next video soon. And until then, elevate your See you soon.