Few places evoke so much imagination as Jerusalem, one of the world's oldest cities, and holy to Jews, Muslims, and Christians. Located at the crossroads of cultures and religions for millennia, today's Jerusalem is a fascinating place to visit. While it continues as a spiritual and historic center, it is also a modern dynamic city, where traditional lifestyles In this video, I will show you ten beautiful places as part of a longer journey through Israel and Palestine. From the narrow alleys and religious landmarks in the Old City, to the bustling modern center of Jerusalem. From the friendly Nahala'ot neighborhood From the inviting Mahane Yehuda market, to the Walking into Jerusalem's Old City can be a magical experience, and to many visitors feels like entering a different world and era. Signs of human settlement date back thousands of years here, and this part of Jerusalem truly feels like living history. It's been conquered, destroyed, and rebuilt numerous times, The Old City is divided into four quarters, the Christian, which all have their own character. And its narrow streets and alleys provide endless From tranquil residential neighborhoods in the Jewish quarter, to the sounds and smells of the bustling souq in the Muslim area. For many travelers and pilgrims, it's the spiritual atmosphere as it's in or near these neighborhoods that you find some of the The Western Wall is one of Israel's most famous sights, and the place where Jews from around the world come to pray. It functions as a massive open air synagogue, Entering the space can feel both intimate and overwhelming, especially on Jewish holidays, when crowds of people Visitors can also go underground, touring While the outdoor part of the Wall is around 60 meters, the majority of its original length of almost While the Western Wall is truly impressive, an area known to Jews as the Temple Mount. Due to entry restrictions they are not allowed to worship here, and have chosen to pray at the Temple's outer Western Wall. This is one of the holiest, and perhaps also most For the Jewish people it marks the location of the Second Jewish Temple, and is regarded as the most important spirtual To Muslims, the Temple Mount is known as Al-Haram Ash-Sharif, and is home to two of Islam's most sacred buildings, the It's considered as the third holiest site, after Mecca and Medina, and holds a special place in the hearts and minds of many Muslims. As a traveler, you have the chance to visit these grounds Christian pilgrims from around the world walk the tracing the footsteps of Jesus, as He carried His cross to Calvary. Traveling this route will eventually take you to one of the most important churches in Christian faith. This is the place of Crucifixion, where Christians While the church was built in the 4th century, it was leaving traces from many different time periods. You will notice a lot of security measures in the Old City, The status of the city remains contested, and forms a crucial While Israel controls the city and has made it its capital, For one of the best vantage points over the Old City, travelers located on a steep mountain ridge East of the city. Except for the views, there are a number of including the Church of Mary Magdalene, and the beautiful Church of All Nations. The Mount of Olives is also the site of the world's oldest providing a final resting place for over 150,000 Jewish people. While the Old City is the focal point for many travelers, Move away from here, and you'll find that the city The charming Mamilla shopping street, for instance, while the vibrant Jaffa Street connects various parts of the New City. It's on Jaffa Street, that you'll find the entrance to a bustling traditional marketplace, where everything So this is the very center of the Mahane Yehuda market, one of the most lively markets in Israel, They basically sell everything here. Fresh foods, but (there are) also a lot of restaurants and little bars. It's lively, to say the least. To many locals, the market is considered the heart of Jerusalem, where all walks of life come to meet, and do grocery shopping. For travelers, it's a fascinating place to walk around, sample some of the mouthwatering food, or In the evenings, when vendors close their doors, the market Mahane Yehuda is open every day, except on known as the Shabbat, the weekly day of rest for the Jewish people. Opposite from the market starts a cluster of several This area was developed in the late 19th and early 20th century, initially by residents that found Jerusalem's Old City becoming too crowded. Its narrow winding alleys lead travelers past hidden One of Jerusalem's most unique areas is Mea She'arim, a neighborhood mostly inhabited by ultra Orthodox, Haredi Jews. Walking the streets here gives you the impression Many of the homes resemble that of historic and most residents maintain the habits, traditions Friday is the liveliest day of the week here, and Jewish holidays, like Sukkot, are celebrated with great fervor. Perhaps the most moving and powerful museum in the world, Yad Vashem is a memorial to the six million Jews Visitors can spend hours here, learning about the Holocaust, Please note that photography, quite rightly, These images were made at other parts of the memorial. We finish this journey through Jerusalem in Ein Karem, a picturesque mountain village on the outskirts of the city. It's filled with historic houses, quiet gardens, churches and monasteries. Said to be the birthplace of John the Baptist, its convenient location between Jerusalem and Bethlehem made it a popular stopover for Christian pilgrims Today, it remains an important place of worship, but has also become a popular weekend getaway And that concludes our visit to Jerusalem, one of the I realize I only scratched the surface, and you could spend Yet I still hope this video gave you some travel ideas, or at least provided a glimpse into a place that is so Thanks for watching, and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely.