And you missed! Right I missed. Much experience once. Oh look at that you got it. So we super sharp point. AKA nastiness. We are going try and defeat a 15th century breast plate. especially for Joe. So the question is can Joe bow. Hi it's Tod from Tod's Workshop a film for you today. Joe Gibbs, you'll be the most amazing traditional archer I know, looks effortless to me. Numbers I can't even dream goes modern. So this is a custom made bow by EK lbs draw weight, significantly more than any other in fact actually you know what check this out and challenge is can Joe draw what I believe to be attempting to shoot a bow like this isn't a one- &quot;let me show you its features&quot;, who contacted me and he asked if I would like to compound bow. After a millisecond Joe and I went came to visit so I could hand over the bow, we what happened. EK archery 130lbs compound bow feel honoured? I do, a bit actually. Which I a very good reason for this so I'm sure you but my worry and I'm guessing probably different to what you are used to shooting, draw weight is. Yeah. Because with a longbow it's that's pretty much your strongest position is something like that. 30. And whereas this is at of your draw. Yeah yeah so yeah, that's definitely So the first question is have you ever shot a Right so that's not great. Have you ever used a never even held one before. Right okay, so bit I don't want to do and I think you don't want 130lbs. So what I have here is just a bow that I 70 lbs draw weight, so easy for you to manage the dynamics are going to be the same so I'm going when you feel good, then you can come back to meantime I think we should go down the range with we'll just have a look at how you shoot and what you're going to be facing with this thing. important now is to see how you shoot because archers style. So put a couple of arrows down With heavy long bows you're doing everything you body as you can. Basically everything from your heavier bows. So you'll see me with my bum stuck all the back muscles. Like I may add the original you see that a lot. Yeah. And so this isn't technique my body's adopted that technique be exactly the same one they used 500 years I just talked through it a little bit. So in my case I have my my sort of just helps the shoulder angles for this very high in the draw which helps engage all all Not the very sort of straight draw of a modern straight line between fist and elbow all the time. muscles involved in that one. I tell you what that just to show you I won't shoot it and you'll bow. So yeah I can see from the shake. So up high if you just draw down you you'll just be stuck as you can, down and shoot. All right so in fact than this one from EK archery but everything about Yes so what immediately feels different about that grip grip shape, whereas the longbow obviously your wrist will be in a different position it's going to be more straight. Yeah we have a not sure how that's going to work out, and it's that sort of that peak draw at 21 inches when mind it's going to break right and when it does draw and it suddenly snaps and everything's gone. you're putting everything into it, everything gone. It's going to be unnerving I think for the surprise me at all if you completely miss that to be your aim point, Joe's aim point is going going to take some getting used to as well so nock up an arrow, do something. Ready? I'm ready, Oh and you missed! Right I missed. I days. Yeah yeah. I would love to say that but I'm not. The other thing don't forget EK bow so they are sluggish as you like so bow. Oh so light, so light, that trigger. Really? go. Do you want to rethink doing this film? So it I kind of am, but this.. sorry.... but this is alien for him that you know it's going to take day for the EK Archery bow. No definitely not. actually I don't have any work to do because I'm of my depth with what we're doing here right, I'm almost going to have to go back to square one attempting to shoot anything off of that. toy in two months, three months whatever it see you in a few months. Thank you. Cheers. Joe. taking this challenge on it's absolutely brilliant you get on with compound bow technology because isn't it? So the first thing was the trigger button and the string going instead of having the then the big one was the draw weight of that. The into. Well, we'll see how you do with that later you need to warm up and it would be good for us to an Axis bow from EK Archery. So this is the baby okay if you want to take it away, put some arrows say this film has been sponsored by EK Archery but so thank you very much EK. Right take it away. So I mean you look confident in a way that you so more comfortable with the trigger release these the arrows is much higher on your line's a bit different. Yeah. So your sight line's Really so yeah when I first started four it. Yeah. Obviously now I think, possibly talk about that. But I'm a lot more comfortable think there's nothing else for it, can't put it So first up let's put that one away and then get bow riser but what they did was they didn't mill to do go and weigh it. Okay let's go let's go. We to find out exactly how heavy it is. So we've we've got the compound bow Joe's going to pull comes to the lump so that's the point where we're I'm going to be able to catch it with my eye, then it's going to drop off. So Joe pull it down Okay yeah I'll go slow. Okay we're one 1 128, 131. 131 so maximum that now? Nervous? Yeah. I would be. So Joe of bow. Small size, lot of bow. Yeah. So this shooting before 24 grams 370 grains something it needs more resistance basically so we have gone weighing in at 1,700 grains, 110 grams, so four an evil looking point. And it is an evil looking looking point. So we have what we think is a world if we're going to do that we may as well have our knight out, so proper medieval breast not yet got an arrow through that, so now is our but we are going to take a modern 21st century breastplate just because. And if we're going to so we have a hard steel, tri-formed hollow ground, Right all yours. Thank you. Look at that, super. excited to see what see one if I can do it and two Hold on I didn't like that that It did. So Joe I cannot believe what just the 131lbs monster and you backed out. Yeah for what happened. So yeah basically the arrow I just wasn't confident in letting that one go. arrow head and then didn't actually see if it so I've made an extension now 25 mm,1 in extension back on now with 127 grams which is about 1960 grains of arrow. Still a monster. Still haven't Oh! But brilliant!!! First ever, Brilliant oh that was absolutely fantastic. Felt plate was missed, wow, well that is certainly out the thing about this bow is the arrow speed because you know the return rate of the springs, whatever that bow design is. Yeah but what it can which is what, four and a half times the weight impact energy, it's going to be massive but what is also awesome Joe, let's not forget you have just done which is as far as I know a Thank that's not bad thing to do. No it's good, to the bench workout what's next. So Joe you did but didn't hit the breast plate. It's like it's go for a second shot. How many shots have you got killer. Not loads, that the second one felt a lot we'll just see. So we've set up a chronograph, the film as well so one way or another we're going Okay oh wooo hoooo! And that you know what, that but the other thing is we'll see it on slow-mo was wasn't it? Right well put that down, it! At last! So in the three and a half years today was that day. Jeez oh look at that. didn't lose it and that is up at the 2.5 mm I'm going to do it again. Thank you. Well done on that brilliant and we've lost a tiny bit of point, completely irrelevant to everything except good about that though? That one was hard work. Was it? wanted to hit this. Yeah? Desperate to hit that. so we did it and you know what I didn't do though, I don't think it registered. Oh really? No no it but we can count the frames and we'll post up what fabulous. Right well let's go back to so Joe again I'll say again amazing achievement just want to see more, I'm greedy. So this massively heavy arrow at whatever it was 1900 of safety. Basically it's a prototype bow, of momentum, loads of energy, brilliant. So what same heavy shaft, so these are actually lined with about 79grams something like that so I think we're what I'll say we got a chrono out, but it failed what the speeds are but by the time this film gets there saying what the speeds are. So that's But did we get reading? No, no reading reading want to sponsor me I'm well up for it. This to me and Joe holding long bows is illustrating take full credit for it, I mounted the whisker was what the arrow length problems were. We've did before. Let's carry on with the film. I know Right Joe, apologies. Moving on. So Joe stupidity. One last time. Okay. 79 gram Frustrating, very frustrating. Just to brilliant I mean that's what 79 gram arrow so let's call it a day on the super bow Joe, here which is as far as I know, tell me if the world's heaviest compound bow has just in a 15th century breast plate. But what would bow. Okay so we've got our 70 pounder. So we'll draw the arrow again and we'll shoot that the regular 24 gram arrows and blat the hell out I got a reading that time. Oh did it? Yeah wouldn't mind having a second bash at that one. me I just want to see these arrows explode on another one more right this is the one. Yeah you're plate? Oh oh I'm in the mail yeah have a look. Nice well, yeah, so two layers of mail and as retentive as ballistic gel from previous found that thing about mail it really catches it's really not coming out is it. That one's have to cut well let's twist, I don't pull? Yeah no no no it's you're going to wreck yeah okay so that's there. Okay right, so Yes brilliant. At last. At do? Where did it get it. This is it here. Is where it got it sort of like one of these this maybe that it did go that way so maybe it bow. Oh 289 that is rapid. That went really. Nice. Just under the V by the disappointed Joe why I I thought we the carbon fibre going everywhere and it's that. That was nice. That one should we go up a proper solid full on, no messing hit, wasn't yeah that that little one there I mean in many strikes compared to what we used to see but I course going last going for his yeah you are going to get that head Oh look at that you got it. Ah well field points; don't underrate them. Wow oh look at that nicely 1.6 1.8 mm mild steel there. Still cool oh there we go. Yeah brilliant that's pretty cool. Pop them back shoot a modern field point at a breast plate. but weirdly all of them the nock has broken off or something, I don't know. So just thank you so compound bow. Well done; thank you. How do you have the opportunity to be able to do it, yeah so whole thing is the the challenge of changing my of refreshing to try something new. New challenge. to do that, but it's it's a very good point as Archery for setting this up and providing the bows The data table is going to be very interesting readings so I'm going to come back at the end of table, but the little bits we've got have shown to something worth watching at the end of this on intriguing possibility here. And these these bows, they really are and part of that efficiency means the drop off where it lets off you still got loads brilliant, but the drop off allows the accuracy aim. You don't shoot like that. Now if you took that into a straight line draw all the way through that loss of energy that you get after the drop and one which you can shoot. Nobody else on the and that is really interesting to me because I powerful bow and actually make it more shootable more speed, more energy, more penetration, more going to be able to arrange that, but my goodness does sound amazing, so if that can be done, I'd mere 131lbs compound bow could get replaced with nonetheless, unofficial world record 131lbs. Thank Thank you Jorg for arranging it, thank you EK work. I just did the talking. Thank you, got the data tables coming up. Hi back again. go through it point by point, that would be dull, spoke to me and if you would like to discuss them one is this is a vastly powerful bow, far more so when the project was first proposed to me I over incredible distances, but in fact it's bow limbs can only return at a maximum speed needs a heavier arrow to dampen the system down can shoot heavy arrows at basically the same speed super bow will shoot 75 gram arrows at basically 24 gram arrows. Three times the weight at the same massive increase in momentum. The other standout weight of the super bow was the same as Joe's the energy and buckets more momentum, but it is It didn't go through the breast plate, penetrated, bow by EK Archery is enough to shoot through an a medieval battlefield with a chest shot. Discuss. performance with the most powerful compound