I'm gonna show you how to make the most delicious mushrooms, the most delicious cream sauce. This is an absolute classic it's from one Chef, and this was one of the recipes that Lemme show you how to make it for four. First up we're gonna do the stuffing a beautiful So we'll get this onto a medium, medium-high We'll go in with some olive oil, a couple I'm gonna get two cloves of garlic finely Now, we wanna celebrate mushrooms whether porcinis, ceps it doesn't matter right, they're So look let's have a little look at the mushrooms. Standard stuff, you can break it up, I'm gonna about this. So as that oil heats up - I don't want it I don't want aggressive heat on the oil I I don't want to get the bitterness that you brown. Break up the mushrooms. So 250 of mushrooms goes in, I've just turned Mushrooms are quite a high percentage of water I'll get a little bit of seasoning happening Now there's a little twist in the method we're a second, and we're gonna drag out that water. So we're gonna fry, boil, then we'll take That way you are gonna get the deepest most is gonna blow your mind. So now by that lid coming off we're gonna Back to frying. So over here with the lovely parsley I'm gonna and then on the leaves which I'm getting to and chunkier and chunkier. And I'm almost thinking of it like spinach. Iron-y and fresh. So the stalk part can go in now like that, Wastes nothing. And you can see we're cooking away that water The smell! Amazing. I put the stalk in a little bit earlier than the stalk is more fibrous, but that little it a dream it will make it delicious. And look you can see the water's gone now, So, in we go now with the parsley. We can give it a nice little toss-around. If you wanted to be geeky right, and really drips of lemon juice makes the difference, Right heat off and these mushrooms are gonna put this onto the board. Really autumnal, deep dark and beautiful. So get that all in there I'll keep this pan You could leave it chunky but I wanted it cross-chopping method to chop up the stuffing Also we're gonna stuff this chicken and it So now when we've got it a nice fine texture, fine like that, that'll cool down really quickly. Okay, lovely stuffing, I'll put that to one Have a little clean down. Now let me show you how to stuff the chicken, it feels and looks quite chef-y right which really really simple and I got a few little The first one is: don't ever bother making right. Don't get the big blocks that you have to ones like that it's nice and easy, they've Just roll it out like that, get yourself a go in the middle first all the way through, So you have four bands of puff pastry, now and your pastry so when it cooks... that happens, Crunchiness, texture, soaks up sauce, chicken So we'll put that to one side. Get yourself a nice tray like that, we'll We just need one egg to go into here for egg This will make it really golden and delightful. I'm using greaseproof paper because at Christmas be sure by a little oil that I'll just rub nothing's going to stick at all, ok. So now what we have to do is get that stuffing, with the pastry. We're gonna take a chicken breast so there's chicken breast we're gonna flip it onto its Here's the chicken breast like that, flap for a stuffing. So we're gonna get the tip of the knife and end. And in slow movements just make - it doesn't you knife skills are good or bad - just be like a little pocket here. And in there you can stuff y'know all kinds Once you've stuffed that in there then you it, and I'll do that to all four of these. Find the thick part, tip in, make that little you're good to go, right? So look now what we're gonna do is stuff this take a piece of our lovely pastry, you can the weight of it just stretch like that naturally. We'll put the chicken at the end like this of that lovely stuffing it's nice and cool dense that is. So thumb in, make sure the hole's big enough, We'll then use this flap of the filet here Then what we do is we take this pastry and If it splits and tears don't worry, just kind But it will be wonderful and will be rustic Let's do another one. You get better always as you go on. Here we go, stuffing, take that filet cover it as tight as you can. Beautiful. Okay, so now we're gonna egg wash these. Now that was a fun simple preparation. This will now go into the oven at 200 degrees pastry is golden and gorgeous and delicious Ok! So that's in the oven. Ok, chicken-y hands there's nothing wrong preparation please don't be scared. Of course you don't wanna go around touching I've used me elbow to open and close the oven. Now I have a nice little clean down right, it's going to be absolutely delicious. Ok so here they are, they look lovely it smells I just love this dish. So that was just under 35 minutes. Look at the colour - really really nice. So like cooking or roasting any kind of roasting bit just for a couple of minutes. So I'll put them onto a nice board. Imagine this at the dinner table right? I'm gonna show you now probably one of the really fast. So I'm gonna put the gas hob on. It's a beautiful simple mustard sauce that fish, even roasted veggies it's really really So heat that up, add a little bit of oil to We're gonna fry some lovely wholegrain mustard, So as it starts to sizzle like that just move I'm gonna put in a nice little splash of white So half a glass goes in, and then we wanna alcohol so it's gonna be light it's gonna When this is kind of reduced by half then So you wanna go in with about 150 ml of gorgeous We'll bring it to the boil, we'll season it So you can see already it looks like a really What I'm gonna do is take this chicken breast like right? So the first one, go in like that... look gorgeous. Then we go equally down the other way and We can see how beautifully cooked the chicken That sauce over there is just coming to a simple sauce across the plate, really easy. Look at that. Little bit of the cranberry sauce on the side a little kiss around here. Y'know with some lovely steamed greens, y'know an absolute thing of joy. Look at that. Easy to serve. Mm! Indulgent, rich, exciting. That mushroom just always brings it down to and the white wine does the opposite with It's light and fragrant and it feels like do in your own home. Absolutely delicious so what're you waiting Get the recipe, get shopping get cooking. Enjoy.