Colossal questions. What would happen if a Let's start with the basics. All Earth-crushing start out as meteoroids. A meteoroid is just a fancy floating around in space. Meteoroids turn into enter the Earth's atmosphere Sometimes we call because the friction and heat causes them to burn If a meteor survives without getting well, then its name changes OK. Now that we've got the science down pat, let's get right What would happen if a giant to Earth? Well, based on other things wouldn't go too well. The best known a meteor that came about 65 million years ago. That collision created a massive that threw so much moisture that it blocked the sun, to drop, which led to the So yeah. That didn't go great. But the good news for those is that these kinds are extremely, extremely rare. Experts say they only every 100 million years or so. And on top of that, of scientists and agencies keep a close eye on waiting for things that might So really, compared to we're pretty well-prepared. What was the loudest The loudest noise was made around 10 AM The sound came from called Krakatoa when its volcano causing a truly massive noise. The volcanic blast it quite literally You see, as pressure from gas deep an entire side of caved in from all that causing a massive landslide. The landslide and likely let sea seawater, air, into the crumbling caldera, Instantly, the reaction started of steam, which caused a eventually led to the The Krakatoa eruption is of 310 decibels at its loudest. That's really, really loud. For reference, a space reaches up to 170 decibels. Experts say that any person would have gone deaf Even over 100 miles the noise measured in It was so loud, it could away in places like Australia which was more than 3,000 In fact, it was loud enough even after humans could Instruments around the planet from Krakatoa as they circled in both directions before days after the blast. So while mankind some truly loud and they can still to the power of the Earth. What would happen if on Earth tomorrow? There's been only 11 eruptions in Earth's history. The most recent was over 26,000 of New Zealand. Other massive were in Colorado, Indonesia, Zealand, and around Yellowstone US. A supervolcano definitely That we know for sure. So what exactly would happen if erupted tomorrow? Well for starters, will be the least The last time Yellowstone's never left the boundaries The ash, however, and would be even more For 500 miles the ground would be covered and cities as far away get a light dusting. Closer cities would covered in several feet of ash. Buildings would be at and winds could create large cover roads and structures. The eruption would shut down all around the country would likely cause a full year, because the by the ash. Farming in the Midwestern US by the cloud of ash, and would become Lakes, streams, and would be clogged But maybe the worst effects would be global. Temperatures on Earth would and could last for This temporary would change the weather so cause massive loss of fruits, But fear not, because a kill everyone. There was no mass extinction major Yellowstone eruptions, have caused extinctions in And don't worry, guys. Yellowstone's supervolcano every 600,000 years or so. And it last erupted-- let me just look this up-- 640,000 years ago. So it's 40,000 years overdue! And it's what started Argh! What exactly would happen to completely from the planet? According to the book the changes to the and some would be immediate. Within just a few hours, would shut off without humans to keep them on. Some forms of power, like power would last longer, would malfunction After two or three in cities like New York and sewers would be clogged. A month or so later, that help cool down would fail, leading to all around the world. It would take about a year orbiting the planet and burn up in the atmosphere. In just two years or would die off in cities since humans would no longer In just 20 or 30 years, would be the first to get Within a couple hundred and tall buildings would After about 300 years, like whales would without human interference would increase. Within 500 years, reclaim suburban neighborhoods. And after 1,000 years would be entirely 10,000 years later, of human existence be giant eroded The Pyramids, the Great Wall to name a few. The absolute longest lasting would be in space. The Voyager 1 spacecraft, full of messages and travels farther and farther and should last the Have you ever why all the oceans are salty? There are five The Pacific Ocean Then the Atlantic, Indian, Some oceans are saltier than of ocean water is salt. has huge amounts of being swished, by the natural This causes tiny called salts to break and dissolve into the ocean Lakes, streams, and aren't salty at all. But why? Why is it just the oceans? Well, it turns out that lakes, have small amounts of It's just a much smaller Salty minerals have a hard because lakes tend to that carry away the The lake can't as the streams and And guess where all carry that salty mineral water? To the ocean. So not only does the ocean do a water, it also takes in from lakes, streams, and But some lakes don't to take the salt away. When that happens, you end up Salt Lake. Since they have no slowly builds up in to go making the water way The Great Salt Lake and the Dead Sea Remember, the oceans That's about 10 times means no aquatic life except for bacteria. So whether it's on Earth or a fresh there's always some What would happen if all the The polar ice caps are the that cover the North Those mega-sized most of the planet's As temperatures on the the ice caps start to melt But what would happen if mountaintops around the Experts estimate that would cause sea levels to rise by about 215 feet. That might not sound would have a massive around the world. In Asia, more than 600 alone would be displaced, most of coastal India, and In Australia, an and most of the coast where four out of five Africa would lose by if all the ice melted, mean lots of well populated Lagos and Cairo, be at the bottom of the sea. And without ice to rising heat would likely too hot for humans to survive. Europe would have a in a catastrophe like this. London, Venice, Rome, Amsterdam, and many other cities would In the Americas, would become an inlet taking out giant parts Up north, the United States All the cities along would go under, along and most of California. Now, before you get running for the hills, that something like this But that also doesn't That's one of the many reasons to take care of the planet. What would happen if The Earth has five oceans. The Pacific, Atlantic, All together, they're All that water plays a pivotal to sustain life. So if it was all to dry up, You see, our oceans that comes from the sun They take in the sun's then move it around that cycle warm towards towards the equator. This transfer is the key to too hot or too cold. Without oceans, the sun's and leave the poles so cold The Earth's oceans are also As you probably know, H2O or any body of where it forms clouds down in the form of rainfall. Without those clouds and Earth would quickly become Animals and most plants would without oceans and rain. All that dead plant life temperatures would that would stretch for All those extreme flames would into the air, slowly and heating up the planet over 150 degrees Fahrenheit. So as you can see, would be pretty grisly. But there is one Experts estimate the oceans would take to evaporate, and it would for Earth to dry up completely. So don't worry. The oceans aren't Let's just not take Where did all this sand come Sand is made from a natural is when something by some sort of natural or just the wear and Sand it's made when rocks into tiny little pebble grains. The long, slow process up high in the mountains. That's where alpine winds breaking down massive by tiny little piece As rocks chip off mountains they make their way eroding and breaking down as the water swirls Eventually all rivers and so do most of particles traveling downstream. As they go, waves, tides, keep breaking down become those tiny little Most of us picture but it actually comes Tan, pink, white, The color depends on what kind Tan sand is the made up of a rock quartz by a chemical called iron oxide feldspar. Iron oxide is we call rust, which that orangey reddish tan tint. Pink sand beaches are but you can still find around the world like the Philippines, and Indonesia. The pink color comes from called foraminifera that tint the sand a pinkish color. These little in coral reefs, which to show up in tropical places. White sand beaches are also but the sand hasn't been tinted Black beaches are and form near volcanoes. They're formed from eroding come from volcanic eruptions. Places like Iceland, Hawaii, known for their volcanic So next time you're whether it's a picture perfect strip of tan sand, take a minute took for these mighty into all our beautiful the less beautiful ones too. What happens when robots take over the world? Let's start with what Robots are going to take No one knows for sure but according to of our daily work activities That translates to about 1.1 In the short term, affect jobs with repetitive operating basic machinery, Luckily, jobs that require and creativity are safe for now. So it's one thing but are they smart enough Well, as recently as have reported that how to communicate by creating their own language. Researchers used a technique learning where they gave robots of competitive ones. The robots created to help them work making the same mistake twice. This is pretty cool, but Because without a what the robots are saying, communicate, or maybe without any humans ever So robots are getting and it's likely that they'll But does that mean they'll Well, if you ask world renowned yes, they could. In 2014, he told the of full artificial the end of the human race&quot;. His belief is that we use today can be helpful would get smarter and smarter, at an ever increasing become so advanced humans So in other words, be because it just might What would happen if the sun suddenly burned out? The sun is a star in the that all the planets It's because of the exists in the first place. Experts have determined that the is just the right distance If Earth was a little closer, But if it was a wee we would all freeze to death. Or in other words, almost rely on the sun for survival. So that leaves us with a pretty What would happen if the Well, for starters, eight minutes before we'd That's because the sun takes light over eight to your eyes. But once those last it would be absolute And that goes for the moon too. You see, moonlight reflecting on the moon. So even if the sun you'd still see the into darkness. We rely on the sun not just for So if the sun burned out, they'd start getting Within a week, temperatures would drop to below freezing, day every single day. Within a year, Earth would below freezing, which is so on the planet's surface. The temperature would and dropping over hundreds until it settled around So next time the sun seems day, just remember, it