In this video I'll show you how to add up to five will have one video port so that you can add one or more monitors you were pretty much out of luck advent of fast USB ports on laptops something any laptop that has a USB 3.1 Gen 2 type-C port. I can do this: This is a docking station. There's market. This particular model is highly rated by it a test. By the way this is not a sponsored products I purchased myself. So this docking has 13 different ports on the side that give you an in-depth video on this stocking station and watch it. Three of these 13 ports are used to DisplayPort and on the side are two HDMI ports. connect to just about any monitor that you have to old monitors a bit later. I'll be connecting on a Mac. However there are Mac limitations which monitors. So first thing I'll plug this docking are no drivers to install. It's plug-and play. is already plugged into the back of this monitor. and connects to it. You'll probably want to do your displays just the way you want them. To do on the laptop itself then click display settings. Windows will look similar. At the top you'll little box here represents one of your monitors. this box labeled &quot;2&quot; is the external monitor I adjust settings for that individual monitor. The monitor behaves. It can show you a duplicate of So I'll change...click this here. Change this And now you can see the exact same thing on both means that both screens are now separate and show of each other and you can put different things these displays. Keep the changes. And now if and now I can move this from one screen to the right but there's a reason I can't do that. I my notepad. Together both of these screens now Back in display settings this isn't just a pretty relationship of one monitor to the other on your is sitting to the right of my laptop but on the left. All right so I've enlarged my mouse so you to move my mouse over to the right side of my screen and that's because in the display settings this this one is on the left side of the laptop. monitor over to the right so that it resembles I'll just drag this over and drop that and so are on my desk. Now if I click Apply and now if it travels to the external monitor just the way precise position of the monitors so they closely external monitor is a 4K monitor so obviously Its resolution is 3840 by 2160. My laptop screen monitor connected let's add another monitor this And the HDMI cable is plugged into the back of recognizes this second external monitor. However of fine-tuning for example the displays may be resolution may be wrong on one or more of the of screens like this the representation you see realize you may not be able to determine which button and you'll see it actually puts a number on This was the second external monitor and now it the second one is this one. And so I also want it is on our desk here. So I'm going to drag this it to and I click Apply. And so now if I move my to the next in a way that is representative Let's plug in the final video port on the laptop Once Windows recognizes the monitor you'll what's going on? Now if I click on one of these scroll down you'll see that the resolution is by 2160. In fact the maximum resolution of same is true of this center monitor here. And if resolution is now only 800 by 600. In fact there three identical monitors. What's happened? monitors but there are some limitations based laptop uses the DisplayPort 1.3 standard but it needs DisplayPort 1.4 or higher to be able to Apparently it has to scale down in my case to most people you probably don't even have 4K laptop doesn't support DisplayPort 1.4 or higher all monitors. But they all work and are usable. So which is which except maybe this one over here Now I mentioned earlier that this docking can only extend the desktop to a single but they will either duplicate the laptop the exact same extended desktop. I'm not a Let's talk briefly about the USB-C port you is critical to the success or failure of this 3.1 Gen 2 or higher otherwise the video ports as USB 3.2 Gen 2. This is the same as 3.1 Gen 2. over the years creating a lot of confusion. So per second. That's the critical part. But if because I have another solution that should I don't want to make this confusing but it's might have a USB-C port that does not support of port. Type-C tells you the shape of the port protocol is the version number of USB that I've The version number tells you how fast the port is you the port is shaped like this one. USB-C is the plug it in in either way and it just works. Refer online using your model number plus keywords your USB ports. Also you'll need a fairly recent I'll link to this docking station on Amazon I bought this laptop in 2019 but it was a more recent laptops will likely support docking station is mostly just a conduit for to be fast enough and powerful enough We've covered a lot and three external monitors is want even more monitors or what if you don't Is there still an option for you? Well yes of USB ports and for the sake of simplicity let's port. That's the rectangular shaped port that at 5 gigabits per second which is half the speed this docking station. So if you have one of these 2008 so your computer almost certainly has one you can plug into a USB 3 port and plug in an So let's add a fourth external monitor and The first time you use this you will need It's easy. A driver is simply software that makes The printed instructions that are included just quickly you may see a window that pops up worry if you don't see that or react to it before File Explorer and you can do that by holding Now mine opens right away to This PC but in your you do that you'll see the different drives that does see this adapter as a disk drive. You will it shows I have three other drives in here and going to be a different drive letter. And so and you'll see a number of files that are here and these are three different drivers you system. And the PC version is the one that ends that and and that will start the installation couple of things along the way. Just follow Your screens may black out periodically during Okay that took a while but it did work. So now I have to restart the computer and once Okay we've restarted and that's an HDMI cable and connect that to this monitor. There you go a fourth external monitor. And this can we push this? I've got another USB 3 port in another adapter and this time I don't have to And nothing. So what's wrong here? Well this particular 1200 and normally that's not a problem. Most adapter has a hard limit. The maximum resolution that is full HD so it's still great for most monitor's resolution goes above 1920 x 1080 you So I'll do that. Go to display settings and to adjust the resolution to be 1920 x 1080 or and click click on this and you can see 1920 x though that's the recommended that's not going My computer's running a little slow powering finally accept that and I will keep the changes. just a second. And so now we've got the fifth the USB 3 port that it is connected to here: notice in my testing that the frame rate or here these two is a little bit slower than this monitor it won't be as smooth as the video plugged into the docking station. You probably uses the refresh rate will be just fine. So could I add a third USB adapter and add a probably could if I needed to. If you need that using a desktop computer. They're much easier to support multiple high resolution monitors without Earlier I mentioned that you can use the monitors. I tested this with other monitors them. To connect to older monitors like that you example this lets you go from HDMI to VGA. This the names of the various ports just pause right Older monitors use these types of ports work I've got links in the description to You can do this with your laptop. Check the description for links to the And click this link to see a video monitor for another computer. I'm