- [Narrator] What's the price of freedom and is it ever too high? Are there dangers so great of opposition is unthinkable? These were questions answered by our nation's greatest generation. My Papou was one of them. Papou is Greek for grandpa I found his World War II journals filled with stories of tents in the jungle and storms at sea. My Papou was gone, but with similar stories out there. So I set out on a journey (sputtering airplane engine) - I was born in 1918, March the 8th in Wadsworth, Illinois. - William Earl Corley, - Kermit is very simple mother's maiden name was Kermit. And they had a son named Kermit. That's how my father, I became Kermit. - Robert Flath, born well, 'til I was seven years old. And we took a train from Minneapolis to Stanley, North Dakota. - When I was a kid, I mean a kid, I rode out to the airport And what comes in there but This guy came in, the pilot came in, and he wanted to take the plane and fly some demonstrative advertising flights. I went over and I asked him if I could go with him when they took this flight. And the guy said, well, he said yeah, but he says, you got any money? I said, yeah I got 35 cents. He gave me the 35 cents (chuckling) And when I went home and my mother's in the backyard I said, did you see that big plane come in here? She says, yeah. And I told her, I said, I was on it. She said, what! I said, I was on it. She said, you wait 'til (chuckling) - I had always dreamed, when I was little, reading the funny papers and landing on carriers. And I thought, how can they do that? A plane that flies that fast, how can they slow down enough to land? Or how can they take off? So much I don't know. - I'd always been interested in flying. I played around with and some that had the - December 7th, 1941 I was walking down the street in Pensacola, Florida going by a barracks that housed British trainees. - December 7th I was delivering newspapers up in Roseburg, Oregon and I heard it. Oh, the war happened. - We were supposed to be on 12 But then the war got started We were all reserves. Extended for the duration of the Navy. - I had a part time job in a gas station and my first customer came in that morning and said, Pearl Harbor's been bombed. And knowing damn little about my answer was, where - What made me join the Navy was the very fact that but I was young. I was too young to go And so there's no way I could get out of going to finish my education. And so I didn't join and then I joined after I - My dad was responsible for that mainly. He was in World War I. He said, I spent a lot that were half full of water. He said, think about where It might have a bearing on - I was gonna be drafted and my father had been in World War I, in the infantry. And I had heard stories from him. And I decided that I didn't - I was in my senior year and all of a sudden I heard this noise and here it was a Navy fighter plane doing acrobatics over the campus. It got me excited and I inquired about it. And the man said, well it's the best flight training in the world. - Well, we sang it to razz Air Force guys who were razzing us. And so we would sing their song. Off we go into the wild blue yonder Crash! - I thought I wanted to fly Air Force. And we got to the Air on Market Street (San Francisco) and they It was a mental exam or a physical that we had to wait for and we had the draft breathing down our neck. So, another party with me So we stepped out the door and looked to our left and here's a big flag flying over this Well, we were in the Navy Best move I ever made. - I was supposed to go I was supposed to work in the office. A couple weeks went by and this guy, they were going to Monterey Bay and they were going down there glide bombing drops. So he said he would let me Well, I was in seventh heaven. I thought this was the I'd never forget it. So then when they got and he flew back to San he was going back he says, you wanna fly the plane? He's telling me on a mic, right? I said, what do ya mean? He said, well just keep I took it almost all the Then he took it in and At Alameda and all. Well, I thought that was great. That made me really wanna fly. (chuckling) - In bootcamp our section leader said that some ordinance men aviation mechanics fly, And I thought, oh yeah. I didn't have a chance so I couldn't qualify for pilot training. But I still wanted to fly but I'd never thought I'd have a chance. And here this guy's have a chance tomorrow. I thought, what is happening? So, sure enough tomorrow we went over to the auditorium and he a couple of different sounds and I want you to tell me Long, dash, and a short dot. He said that's the two I thought, that's so simple. I don't know the answer. I was thinking it'd be tougher than that. So I wrote down a dash and a dot. The next day our section leader was reading off the names for those who were going to school. He named a couple and and like a dummy I just stood there, like I was frozen. I thought, how can this happen to me? Here I'm gonna have a chance to fly and I don't even have an education. How could this happen? - It was the Yellow Peril. The instructor was in the backseat and you were right in front - That was my first airplane. That was interesting. I'm still here. - We finished up at Kingsville, advanced, were commissioned ensigns and were sent to Opa-Locka, Florida. Where they had a few of Now these were antiques. If the levers were lowered There was a pair of pliers You grabbed that pair of pliers and reached down underneath cut a wire, and the wheels would drop. That's how we got that - Well my first carrier There were two ships that from Detroit to Buffalo They put flight decks on 'em. - That Admiral Kinkaid come up with the Sable and the Wolverine. - It was in the Great Lakes where they had practice carriers. And I qualified out of Chicago there. With, I think it was six carrier landings. They told me I was qualified. - Well, that K-20 camera And I picked that up and I thought, how do I hold unto it? And then I saw the handle. And I thought, oh you grab that. Well, where's the button that So, I looked around. I don't even know and I'm looking at one right now and I don't I don't remember. It's, I remember it's heavy. But it seemed like I had up, oh I did. I had to have it up here There's a trigger on the handle. (clicking) I don't remember doing that. - We could take an airplane within a 300 mile radius on a day off. I grew up out in the country out here. An area called Freshwater. When I come in here they Our big thing was, what You know, as near the Buzz the building, buzz the Well, I always liked to do a loop, roll out and an Immelmann on top, then split-S, and get back down over. That's what I'd do over Fresh Water. Back down over the right on the ground. Which was a no-no. I was doing things over Fresh Water. If the Navy coulda seen what I was doing, I woulda been mustered out in a hurry. - Alexa von Tempsky Zabriskie. She had a house and we on weekends and go up there. - We spent a lot of time at her home. She had a beautiful old style home about half way up on - She was a famous authoress up on the mountain. And they used to invite the Sun Downers to come up and spend the weekend. - We'd bring six planes in and the six guys that were were down at the airport. They came down in her big Buick. They took the six planes back. So the planes were never We took the Buick back up to the house. And we would party for a couple of days. - She fed us all and Very kind to us. - Some of the Sun Downers and a very famous lady by the name of Alexa von Tempsky Zabriskie. Helped them to come up with a logo. - I can remember them working on a patch. F4F's, sinking the rising sun. - The squadron patch was the flying horse. And the inscription there That was Greek, that's - We called it &quot;Little That's what I always heard it called. And it was the object a torpedo and it was I do remember that. I think it's neat, you know. I got one on my car. - I had nicknames. Some people had nicknames. Well, George Retelas. We used to call him &quot;The Greek&quot; 'cause George was a sun lover and when he saw a picture well, you could always pick him out. We never called him George. We always referred to him as Rattle-ass. It was all Rattle-ass In fact, George sometimes Young George, here. - Charlie. He was one of the squadron characters. We called him &quot;Skull&quot;. - Well, because his head He was a very skinny guy. Tall and skinny. He was a good flier and a good shot and he was our leading ace. I think he shot down 16 airplanes. - He slipped in underneath me when I didn't see him. And he fired that rocket up in front of me so that I would collapse, I guess. But it was a startling, very meaningful experience to go through. And he just laughed and - When I think about Charlie I think he was just as But when he got up against the Zeroes. Full deflection shots. (trilling) He had 'em, he never missed. - My name became Tim instead of Kermit because Charlie Stimpson and he said, you know Kermit Would you mind if I called you Tim? So from then on it was Tim Enander. Tim, Tim all the way through the Navy. All the way through school. Everything, Tim, Tim, Tim, Tim. Tim Enander all through the Marines. It was Tim Enander all through college. It was Tim Enander while I I had a service station in San Jose, it was called Tim's And it was Tim Enander this, Tim Enander, Tim, Tim, Tim. And somebody would ask me my name and I would say, Kermit. And they'd say, what? So I'd say Tim. So that stuck with me for the rest of my life, it still does. - This is the Douglass dive bomber. It was seen as a very advanced plane. Utilized a great deal in the Navy and the first operational This is the bomb bay in which the main bomb was loaded. The dive flaps are perforated. They're hinged and they And are designed to slow for stability purposes. A long white and black striped, it's called a tail hook. It is lowered when the the rear of the carrier. The pilot settles on the the tail hook and slows the plane to a stop. I have just touched the highlights but it was a very important vehicle early in the Japanese war. My name is Robert Cocks And I do appreciate your - By the equator we had and all the fun associated with that. - They put us in a line a long table. One of 'em said, will There was a mixture of and some other junk in it. And about that time two guys walked up by the side of 'em and in back of him. He jumped him with a sock full of sand. And this kid says no, I And these guys started beating on his butt and he changed his mind. Then he said yeah, yeah, And so. And I looked over and here's a kid sitting in an electric chair. And he was just jerking. And so I thought, I so when I sit down in that like that kid that's doing what he's doing now, just shaking. I'm gonna sit there like I can't feel it. I'm gonna beat 'em at their own game. So pretty soon it stopped They'd be wobbling. And then they pointed to me to come over. So I came over and sat down. And pretty soon they turned the juice on and I couldn't sit And there's a guy down at and he had a fire hose. I put my hand up and about that time they started to hit my butt. And they say, what'd you wanna be? And some of the guys, the smart alecks before would say, I wanna be a Pollywog. And smack, they'd hit him But if you said, I wanna they wouldn't bother you. So of course, I knew what I wanted to be. So I'm walking down about knocking me down. The guy says, what'd you Shellback, Shellback! Just an initiation. Just a fun thing to do, but something you wouldn't wanna do without being made to do it. - Wildest dream that telling a story that happened 74 years ago which I thought would never be recorded. I was going to aviation here in Alameda. And in the middle of the The Master-at-Arms said, And so on down the deck we went. And I looked up and I see this carrier and I says, what's the name of this ship? And the guy says, USS Never Say. And so what was I supposed to be doing, well from the warehouse of bombs over and we were rolling these bombs down the deck and then they were being hoisted aboard the ship. And we didn't know what And that was the end of the story until we hear about this Doolittle Raid. And so it wasn't really important but I may be the only living enlisted man alive today who rolled some down the deck, that got that bombed Tokyo. - Well, we were supposed to That was the one that Jimmy Doolittle and his B-25's flew off to raid Tokyo. And anyway, that carrier was sunk. - Well, we left the states October the 26th CV-8 Hornet Here we were, a complete air group, with no Hornet, no transportation. - So we were sent to Guadalcanal to fly off of Henderson Field. - Guadalcanal? Rough. It was rough. (chuckling) - There was no fun in Guadalcanal. Zero! It was from the sack, to the to the sack again. That was it. - We had a lot of mosquito - It was so near the equator there that it was hot and it was humid. It was malaria from the mosquitoes. Rats were just terrible. - Like I said, I was gonna nice quarters, I'm sleeping in an army cot with a mosquito net, The mosquitoes were a little tough on me because someplace along with a mild case of malaria. - We were moving from the Fiji One of the pilots had diarrhea. And he must have been miserable. We let him land first. The plane was still and he's out of the cockpit squatting on the edge of the landing strip. Relieving himself. He was able to hold it but the poor guy must have been miserable. - We flew from Fiji Landed on this airstrip. And it wasn't very smooth. - Henderson Field was in the Seabee's were working and I believe they used Marston matting to make it fairly level and usable. - We were having a bull session. Just a bunch of guys talking. And that's when I first He was the lone survivor of Torpedo 8. George Gay then was in - Scouting Squadron 11 was identical to Bombing Squadron 11. Both squadrons flew SBD's. Both squadrons came together as one when we were assigned to Henderson Field. Washing machine Charlie that produced a sound A back and forth, back and forth. - Washing machine charlie was coming so everybody had to go to the foxhole. Well, let's see. This time it was Bose Ervin. He had been sleeping and somehow or other he'd He went to turn over and he had a hold of the wrist, but his arm lost feeling. And Bose thought that who's come down out of the and had a hold of his hand. And he started to holler and yell. Marine guards came running. And the next door pilot he came in with his .45 all cocked, ready to shoot. And Bose caused more trouble that night than washing machine charlie ever did. - During the Japanese air raids there was one of our boys He could hear the bomb coming and it exploded close to him. He dove into the fox hole naked. It's scratched him up pretty good. His belly was all scratched up. But he put his clothes on and he didn't sleep naked anymore. (chuckling) - Being a plane captain, you're You're gonna start up an You gotta change the oil, add the oil, add the gasoline, help strap And away he goes and he comes where he can park his airplane. Refueling the aircraft, and replace the amount of Pretty much how life was. - The Zero was very maneuverable. Much more maneuverable than the Wildcat. But the thing about the Wildcat is it could take so much punishment. Whereas the Zero, hell, you put one bullet in the Zero and it would explode. The gas tanks weren't protected. - When we escorted the diver bombers and torpedo bombers into a target the fighters would fly cover and we had the Thatch Weave. That you're weaving for their protection. So you've got an airplane Somebody's coming at 'em. Or one's coming this direction. Nobody's going straight ahead. - Gordon Cady improvised. Instead of four planes, Two planes weaving. He broke it off into one plane weaving. By the time they got here We called that the Gordon Cady Weave. - Now there was a man that of aviation time. He was killed landing aboard a carrier with the aircraft, a crash. It was just hard to believe - Something that's never left my mind. An early morning flight would go out, start the engine, wait They'd show up and one the early morning flight. And in the tropics, when they canceled an early morning flight on an F4F when the engine started to cool off it drew moisture into the magneto and the airplane would not start. And you'd have to remove the magneto to air the ignition Leroy Childs was supposed and they canceled the flight. We shut the engine down. Maybe an hour later that and so Leroy Childs He was last seen drifting off to one side. He never returned. It always kind of bothered me because had Fox 16 started, would've still come back. - Our torpedo squadron, from the flights. Air group commander Hamilton decided to have R and R, rest and recreation for them in Australia. They tried to get back for a landing and they crashed in the coral reef. And they all lost their lives. - I was in a four plane division and my division leader came back up. I was coming this way and he cut my tail of the plane and that blew off. And my plane flew on its back. But then it flipped back right side and started to spiral. And I jumped off and pulled the cord. And the parachute had opened. I then looked and I saw my just going back down. But it was so cozy, I'm sitting up there about 10,000 feet coming With a beautiful sky and beautiful clouds and beautiful water. But pretty soon everything changed. I hit the water, tore the top off of this little package. It opened up and I crawled in it. But I couldn't do anything in that raft. It was too light and the paddles were little hand paddles. So I paddled for three days. - My very first strike was almost my last. I released my bomb at about 3,000 feet. We were instructed to do so that we wouldn't get destroyed by our own bomb blast. I had a very loud I just had a reflex action and jerked back on my control stick so I heard my rear seat &quot;Pull out, Mr. Strahan, pull out!&quot; So I started easing back on the stick and when I got so I could see, the first thing I saw was palm trees. We were right down there, Malloy saved my life for sure. We pulled out and then We got back to Henderson (chuckling) - At the end of the third I figured 50 foot high surf. And in a matter of seconds of one of those waves. And they had some coral that That was between me and the beach. But I went over that. I saw it when I was way up high. And I went over that and just missed it. A fella back at Guadalcanal told me to get to the end of and then get over to the next island. There was a coast watcher And he said get there and There's a little hook and So I'd go inland and crawl up I was seven days. I did that up and down. - Well, Sully, I was flying with Sully. We were by ourselves. And these two Zeroes were above us and attacked us. The only thing I know, he I was here and he came down like that. I think Sully got away. I think he shot down the guy that got me. And we both survived, But the bullets exploding in the cockpit were just phenomenal noise. My God, I didn't think I'd - There was some big barges on this end of the island. And I made some paddles. And I stuck 'em in the loops that were on the top of the raft. I had a big, long pole. I pulled it up like that And when I got over there and half swim and drag my boat coming out of the surf, there were two natives over on my right waving at me. They took me up the a great big native, I said And he said, &quot;Yes.&quot; He handed me a piece of paper. He said, &quot;You wanna write a And I said, &quot;I sure do!&quot; Pretty soon there was a and they were planes from my squadron. They came down and saw me. And they wobbled their And of course I gave them a good thumb up. And I gave 'em a finger, too. Now, I was all by myself thinking up all of these crazy things. And I had never, I'd And everything worked. Everything just, you know, it's impossible but I just, it worked just fine. - When we first got aboard the Hornet and left Ponam. Captain Doyle got on the intercom. He says, &quot;I'm gonna tell He says, &quot;For security reasons I didn't say anything in port there, but now we're out and we're on our way. We're going to join Admiral We're gonna make strikes. We're gonna go right up next So, that was the beginning with the USS Hornet. Does that answer your question? - They told us, &quot;You know to have hunting season?&quot; On open season you could shoot anything. And they said &quot;This is the southern tip of the Japanese islands, and this is open season.&quot; This is all enemy territory. - Gene Fairfax became the C.O. of VF-11. - When he first came to the squadron, since most of us had a tour He was a seaplane pilot. And the rest of us fighter how could they send a the Skipper of the squadron? He'd never been in fighters and we had. Of course it proved to be our thoughts were absolutely stupid. - Everybody loved George Ford. He was a source of great respect. He was a very likable, capable guy. I think he bombed the battleship and got a Navy Cross. - Well, the Hellcat was, the Navy had at that time. It was really just a joy to fly. - It was very sturdy. I had seen it come back aboard the ship all shot to pieces and almost fell apart when they got on the deck. But it brought the pilot back. - See, we were working They wanted to knock out all the aircraft they could to the north. We managed to burn a few aircraft on this small island off of called, Iejima. And that was our first when we pushed over I on the rudder pedals. I was shaking all over. That's the feeling! - And when we pushed over in our dives we went into a 70-degree dive which is pretty darn steep, you know. And we'd drop our bombs Like, when we made a strike at Kahili we could see the dust trails of the fighters taking off, the Zeroes. - I sure looked up to the because that's a dangerous into anti-aircraft fire and stuff. We didn't have to. I rode backwards. Everything was past us when I seen it. I didn't have to sweat I had to sweat the stuff going away and that's not nearly as bad, right? - Well, a torpedo run is almost suicide. You're supposed to come in at 200 feet, 200 knots, and drop at a 1,000 yards out. And then pull up and... it was just crazy. - So we made our run. I'll never forget it. We get out away from the ships. We didn't know that we So when we get ready an awful lot of accelerating to get the thing to go up and pick it up over the back of that ship, right. And so when that happened, guess what. The torpedo drops in the bomb bay. They told him to just cut and come on in. Well, he cut the traffic circle short and we made it to the ship. But baby when we hit, we hit. I mean that baby landed hard and that torpedo went through Right through here. - The torpedo came bouncing down and everybody's running I'm down on the catwalk. You know, we're all ducked. And it's out there and it And we had a gunnery And he went out there with his tools and took it apart and - That was quite a jolt. Can you imagine if that What woulda happened to the That baby woulda been And I know we woulda - There's a lot of activity going on and the squawk box was. And for Betty to be nosing around it means that they weren't there to bomb. They were there to make a suicide run. - My roommate, Bose Ervin, he happened to be up on the hanger deck. And he was watching and - And the Betty was about the same level as the hangar deck. We saw some tracers being And they hit it almost right before it got to the ship. I mean to tell you, - I'll never forget We were sealed in. There wasn't anywhere I could go if the Kamikaze bomb got and water started to come in. They would never try to rescue us. We'd just be drown right there. It shook me up something terrible. It coulda been the end (chuckling) - But you know, I don't think I don't think it ever got hit by anything. I mean, I'm not saying it but it never got really hit. Torpedoes or anything like that. Unless, we was the only one (chuckling) - We used to shoot a lot of Fighter pilots deflection shooting. So a young ordinance party running the skeet range, wound up he had a liter of Boston bulls. And he thought we oughta have one. Well he gave us this little Boston bull. - The dog yes, oh yeah. He was a cute little bugger. - Well, originally it Blake Moranville. Commonly called Jack Rabbit. - Blake was the youngest So, he was elected to take care of Gunner. Gunner stayed with us the whole tour and of course when Blake was shot down, that poor dog really missed Blake. And we shipped him to his - Well, let me think now. I think he was shot down over Indo-China. And managed to get with and then came back through - So that was quite a reunion when he got home and here's a little dog was there ahead of him. - I was at church. We had church on the, the flight deck on the bow. And well they shot him off the catapult and he was banking off to the right. His controls probably froze, or something. Or he set it. You just gotta speculate maybe he got racked up when the plane crashed, when it went in the water, a water landing, it crashed in the water. It went into the water Hooper survived it. Trobaugh got banged up. But Leblanc never got out of the plane. Trobaugh, the guy that's the radio man, got out of the accident. Something caught his CO2 bottle when the plane evidently broke up and he got cleared out of it and popped his CO2 bottle and made But he used to say that what happened, what got him out was that and the Lord had him by the hand. And he said, he's glad the lord won because all the devil got was his shoe. His shoe pulled off. - It was like the Landing when we were practicing He said, &quot;When you come around the 90 and get into the groove, and when I give you the cut and you say, God you have it.&quot; That was pretty much the way we landed. Hopefully you'd catch a wire. And if you missed a hook the You got the propeller all tangled up. A lot of them were pushed down the deck towards the rear end of the ship. And it looked like a swarm Pulling instruments out, pulling guns out, pulling ammunition out. Anything that could be salvageable. And by the time it got to end of the deck, everybody jumped off and they pushed the plane off the side, off the tail end. - When we came into from my seat and I could of the back end of the plane. There were seven cables on the Hornet. And that hook usually caught Probably half the time, I'd turn around and count the cables that the hook bounced over. And this one time I'm looking at it and it bounced one, two, And I turned around because I'm in the back end of that plane and when that tail goes up, So I'm sitting there waiting to go. And nothing happened and I looked back and the hook caught the seventh cable. - Dr. Ogush was our Flight Surgeon. His major in medical He had told us a few times, It was just a psychological thing.&quot; Well, anyway that day He hit and his tail hook and just started chewing a And Doc Ogush all of a sudden - We were always concerned because sometimes our plane would sink in a minute and a half. - Once we hit the water the By that time I was out on the wingtip just letting it go on down. - And the engine failed and so I had a dead stick landing. Our rear seat gunner, Kostner, he had his machine guns and it knocked him out. Somehow or other we got Kostner out, got the rubber raft out. - And they had some and we decided to go there. And that's when they shot me up. Hit my gas tank and when we landed in the water Riley and They got the raft out, inflated it, and I stepped into the raft I didn't even get my feet wet. But he rode backwards. He couldn't see where we were. You know, he was in a turret. He didn't know I could see the fleet. &quot;Row where?&quot; (chuckling) &quot;Come on, Charlie, just row.&quot; - I looked up and I saw And I was sure glad to see 'em. - When things calmed down along side the USS Hornet - When they transfer they send a line over and then a cable. And I went over in a mail bag. You know, I'm looking out here. A big, deep mailbag. - And they had to send five gallons of ice cream back to the rescue ship before they'd transfer us. - You know, looking back now it was fun because of the size of the ship. I enjoyed that. We could go to different We'd go to the hangar deck and stand working on our planes. We could walk on the flight and it was a fun ship to be on, I thought. - That's where I learned to play bridge. And acey-deucey. Those were the games that when we weren't flying. - Played cards, drank coffee. And made jelly cinnamon sandwiches. - Blank, he was a good poker player. He made a lot of money, Blank did. So, Bill and I talked you know what? We oughta take that money away from him and go up to the post office And let her put it in the bank for Blank. Because the way he drinks beer, So, while he was telling us he was showing it to us. And that's a 1,000 dollars, we thought. Okay, maybe this is the time. That's enough to do something with when he gets out of the So, I looked at Bill. He kinda nodded his head And Blank is cussing us out Because we know he's not gonna fight us. So, we walked over to the post office and sent the money to his aunt. - My roommate was Bose Ervin. Bill he says, &quot;I wet the bed at night.&quot; I says, &quot;God, I don't want And that was just what he wanted me, he says, &quot;Let's trade.&quot; So then I had to stay in the top bunk. He was always When we were at mess he'd give a quick-- and you'd run your hand or whatever it was. It makes you feel like knocking him through the wall, you know. - The ready room was a cool place to be. We could take a can of in the air conditioning outlet and it would freeze up there. If you didn't get it soon enough. - On board the Hornet somebody got Torpedo Juice. They got that by draining the torpedoes. It was pretty sour, it was 180 proof. But that didn't last long. Too many guys wanted a sip. (chuckling) - But Jocko Clark, the admiral on the ship was a teetotaler. We had to hide everything captain of the ship, were visiting us. And so they came in and wished us well and everything else. And the captain, before he And so he got rid of the admiral, came back and had drinks with us. - Well, one of the Ulithi Atoll islands was named Mog Mog. And that is where the ships and we had a day to go - Ah yes, there was a good They had a lot. - That was where the partying was. Mog Mog Island. - That was a mess. That place really had I mean when the whole that'd be something else. - When the ship pulled in there they had a bar setup for us. - And that's where the booze was all poured at Crowley's Tavern. - I had two friends And at the time I didn't drink beer. We got off the ship towards Beer Garden and Bill says, &quot;Verg, do you have your beer card?&quot; I said &quot;Yes, I do, I've got it.&quot; And he said, &quot;Were you gonna And I said, &quot;If it's your turn, sure.&quot; And Blank said, &quot;Bill it's not your turn.&quot; Blank said, &quot;It's my turn. And I wasn't sure, I didn't keep track. So they got together face-to-face. I thought one was gonna land a blow they were so mad. So, I got between 'em. I spread 'em apart. And I says, &quot;I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what I'm And I reached in my and I brought it out. And I said, &quot;I'm gonna tear this in two because we're not gonna have And they didn't say anything. I'd act like I'm tearing it. &quot;No, no, wait a minute.&quot; Bill says, &quot;Wait a minute. He says, &quot;I think Blank's right. I think it is his turn.&quot; Blank says, &quot;No, it isn't really. Bill, it's your turn.&quot; I said, &quot;Well that tells me something. There won't be any more trouble over that beer card, will there?&quot; &quot;No, there sure won't.&quot; - And I remember at the end on the loud speaker. They had loud speakers hanging around in the palm trees. &quot;Okay men, get back aboard your boats. All you guys up in the trees come down now and get back on your boats.&quot; - We thought when we we came into anchorage, we You know, we didn't I was laying there sound asleep, I guess. All of a sudden something A crew was in there and Because you're supposed to get up. Don't matter if you're or what you were doing, You're supposed to be It was the Executive Officer of the ship and his Master at Arms and So you know what he did? He put us on report. So now, we gotta go to Captain's Mass. And this guy, you know when He had Captain's Mass during the typhoon on the hangar deck. There was more water on the hangar deck than there was in the ocean. - Some of the waves were The flight deck is 65 feet off the water. - The Hornet would roll was on its side. - A ship as big as the Hornet, when that thing would go down in the water it had the typhoon, it would And the whole rear end, all the screws would come out of the water. And that thing would shake all over. That ship would just shake all over. And rattle, make some of the worst noise. They had to take and because they couldn't even stand up. - Bill and Blank and I we were tired of sitting in the ready room. We said, let's go out and So we stepped out of on the flight deck. And we looked out and a Tin Can was by the side of us. There were always Tin - The escort ships that was with us during the typhoon, all you could see during that typhoon was the smoke stacks. - And we kept watching that. All of a sudden we see a grabbed the railing. I don't know what he was doing out there but a big wave came over and there was nothing there. The guy was gone that Probably 10 to 15 seconds later the Tin Can went down bow first. And we kept waiting for it to come up. Never did come up. We went back in the ready room the squawk box sent a message and said we just lost the It sunk. - There was three ships disappeared. Three destroyers disappeared That was the worst typhoon That the Navy got involved in. - They used to get the first Like if you hunt ducks, You shoot at the first one. And so, most of the pilots that we lost were the first guys in the dives. - I just figured, you down we were always two or 300 miles ahead of our own front lines. And if I got into a bad situation where we were gonna be captured that on not doing my best. So, I had two pistols. I had my old .45 and then I So I figured I was gonna use both of 'em as long as I lasted. I'd rather go out that way than being captured and Which they did. - But I'll never forget to go on that flight, we was in the head. That's the bathroom. I don't know why I wanted to comb my hair because I gotta put my And we was in the of the guys that was with the Skipper. And when they called for the manned planes he started to go out let me use your comb.&quot; And so he handed me the comb and he started to walk on out. And I said, &quot;Well wait a minute.&quot; He said, &quot;Give it to me when I get back.&quot; I couldn't tell you how many 'Cause he didn't come back. - We had a flight of seven planes. Wasn't very long and I and I saw one of our One of the fighters said Meaning his plane and crew. The enemy came out and picked him up. Had no idea what happened after that. But, and F6 fighter pilot was shot down a few days later and he floated down and landed in a tree. He heard voices in the distance. Turned out they were Chinese guerrillas. So they helped him out of the tree. And the fighter pilot saw it looked like they were American boys. The fighter pilot pulled out a dog tag and he pointed to it. And he pointed to the clearing. And the leader knew he from the three guys that They came back and said that their tongues had been cut out and had been pulled off. But they got the dog and gave 'em to the leader. And the leader handed and they turned out to be - Claude Haley, he was He was a good gunner enjoyable to be with. I suppose that they listed - Well, that's the day The 9th, yeah pretty sure. - He landed in the water There wasn't anything we could do. And the wind, evidently and he was rowing like hell to try to keep out to sea. He didn't wanna get blown to shore where the Japanese were. - A very powerful man He had one crewman laying across his raft. Seemed to be unconscious. - The on shore wind was so strong that it blew him in - I can still picture him down there just rowing those flimsy - We were going on a strike. I'm not sure were we were going, but anyhow there was a We were taking turns making runs on it. Firing the machine guns. Balcombe was in one, - He was a buddy of mine and and we used to kid each He was a heck of a nice guy. - He took a shot, a .50 caliber shot in the left side of his belly, his waist. And that went through his - And it came up through the bottom of the plane, one bullet. - His gunner jumped down out of the turret when he saw he was hit. And the gunner was holding his insides. He managed to pick up and tell him that Balcombe - We went and watched - And all the guys went down. And the officers spoke, the captain spoke. - They got, it was time to pull the lever. When they did Balcombe went down the chute and he rippled his sheets going down. And I don't know why, that stuck with me. But I still think about that. That's the main thing I How his gunner got down Keeping his insides in. And he still died and those white sheets rippling. It was hard to take. - Yeah, I remember that, I remember that. I always hated to see Because you know something, we were young. We were young, we were kids. And you figure they Just had no chance to live, no chance to... - At Ulithi, after of strikes moving closer we heard a rumor that we might be relieved and returned to Hawaii. - When they came back from the meeting about who was gonna be relieved and all, we was sitting up there and we go, &quot;Hey!&quot; We're waving, you know. And they come out and went. (thumbs up) And boy we went, &quot;Yay!&quot; We was up there sitting on - Oh, are you kidding? Whew, you talk about relief. And I said, &quot;I believe this is I was glad. - It was a pretty good feeling. We thought well, we got through this tour. Maybe we'll go home and by the time that we have It was just a happy feeling, really. You know, we don't have - I didn't mind the strikes. There's no question about that. Because I felt like I I felt good about that, contributing. But when I heard that, it made me think, we're going home. We're going back to the USA. We don't have any strikes tomorrow. - It was a post Christmas kind of gift that everyone appreciated. When the Japanese surrendered Suddenly crowds appeared on the streets. And we got the words. The war is over, the - We were then stationed That was one big night in Santa Rosa. Everybody was, you know, and there'd be no more killing and everybody could go back to doing what they wanted to do. - I was on a train with his mother going to Naval Air Station And we got off the train in the morning and I commented to her, There was paper's all over the place. And then we saw a headline. Japanese capitulated. And we were on a train - Didn't know if I wanted I thought about it. So I had to go to So I borrowed one of the and went down. Two commanders interviewing and I wasn't saying sir. And the one commander &quot;Oh, yes sir, yes sir.&quot; And I made up my mind then, I'm getting the hell out of this outfit. And so when I flew back the Golden Gate Bridge. - What am I, a young Had been gone for four years. And then gonna put my name And I had met this Man, my choice was I'd than to get into a cockpit. And so that's about what that was. And I did, 62 years. (chuckling) - [Retelas] You're doing so great. It's such an honor. - Well. - [Retelas] It is. - I'm, gee, I'm happy. I'm real, real happy. - [Retelas] Well, we love you. You're just wonderful. You're our hero. And I can't wait to have (chuckling) The privilege of documenting their stories of heroism first hand And spending time with them has been a second chance at spending (uplifting music) (somber music) (roaring airplane)