Microsoft just announced new REGEX functions in simpler. So, what exactly is REGEX? It stands search and manipulate text. Before you say, &quot;This going to understand this. I'm never going to need across cases where you will need exactly this a list of data, and you need to find all the email all this text. Now, instead of going through this for each single cell, you'll use the REGEXEXTRACT addresses in a dynamic way. So here, if I add &quot;and automatically extracted. You can use this function matter if the brackets are in the middle or at middle of text, even multiple dates from a single sentences. You can break up text that's stuck whenever we have a pattern--and a pattern to someone--you can use the REGEXEXTRACT sometimes you might want to replace text based on and it comes with special characters, and you want function to replace the characters you don't want, get rid of leading zeros in your data. You can by adding a dash after every fourth digit. it can be replaced or extracted using these two in Excel from scratch, and I'm going to show you the link in the description of this video. If you a beta feature, and it's going to take some time a REGEX cheat sheet to your downloadable file, so you have all you need here. But let's just extract email addresses from text. In this case, I steps, and sometimes I have one email address, to extract these email addresses and put them in Excel functions that we had access to until it is because we have the new REGEX functions. The Why? Because we want to extract a piece of just requires two things that are mandatory; the is the text. This is where we want to extract our pattern. Now, the pattern is something you put nothing there and press Enter, I get nothing to do is to tell it, &quot;Extract email addresses,&quot; or of letters that's followed by the '@' sign and everything after that until you get to a space,&quot; do that. What you need to do is give it a Regular that it understands. Now, Regular Expressions programming languages. So, the good news is that get the help of AI. And that's what I did in this I'm in Copilot, and I told it, &quot;Give me the So if I have &quot;Great progress, please email Dave I want to return &quot;dave@thecompany.com.&quot; So it's want returned. Then Copilot went ahead and said, you can use the following Regular Expression.&quot; copy it, go back to Excel, and put it inside it works. Let's just drag this down. What I get them. This is where we can take advantage of the which was by default, right? If we don't add any match. But we can switch this and get all matches. matches. If I drag this down, this spills. I get but it spills downwards, right? So the problem is get a #SPILL! error. I'm going to work around inside the TEXTJOIN function. With TEXTJOIN, the results to be separated? I want them to be to ignore empty cells or include empty cells, I'm then for the text, that's going to be our REGEX I'm just going to double-click to send this down all the way down. So now everything looks good, we get the #N/A error. So I'll just wrap this we want to return nothing. Close the bracket, is because it's a function, everything is info@xelplus.com,&quot; our results update immediately. isn't familiar with REGEX. You can ask Copilot reference our cheat sheet to become familiar once you get the hang of it and you understand the in this way. But honestly, AI works really well take a look at how we can extract text from inside we have parts of the description inside brackets, here. So because we're going to extract something, here. The pattern, quotation, quotation, because time and ask it for help. Over here in ChatGPT, I extract text from inside brackets, and I gave it it gave me is this. Optimally, I would just ask until now, has no idea that Excel has gotten with the pattern for now. I'm going to copy this, Enter, and I get the content that I want. Now, the can also make everything spill by referencing the I don't want these brackets. I just want the text of the other optional arguments. Here, we can or all matches, which we saw before. Now, we could first match. Now, when I put a 2 and press Enter, if you're confused about what this argument really let's take a look at our next example. We want for example, here we have different project I want to grab these dates and split them into sometimes the months have one digit, sometimes pattern should account for that. Now, because we're going to use the REGEXEXTRACT. Text is bracket, press Enter, and we get the dates back. then either one or two digits for the months, and I want them separately though. This is where I of first match. Each of these is a separate I get each group separately. The problem is horizontally. So what I'm going to do is put and drag this down. And I have my dates split into what if I have multiple dates and I want to three separate dates. I want each date separately the exact same function that we had before. So my before, except for return mode, I'm going to go the bracket, press Enter. Now as I start to pull is spilling vertically, right? So this is going do is spill these horizontally, so I'm going press Enter. Now I can easily drag this down. you can use the TEXTJOIN function. Now, how about dealing with an Excel table. We can also see how column. The feedback includes web addresses. sometimes they start with &quot;www.,&quot; and sometimes function here that extracts these. So we're The pattern in quotations is this. Now, if I just web address back. In general, I think I just have and &quot;google.com.&quot; But notice I'm not even letters are missing. Why? Because my pattern update this to include uppercase, or I can take which accounts for whether I want everything to be everything is case sensitive. I'm going to go with But again, notice I only get the first web address all matches, I have to put a 1 in this argument. with a #SPILL! error because everything is spilling a function that can bring everything together. split everything based on the comma delimiter, we get everything back. Now you might find that might not work. So, for example, here, if I extracted. I will need to update that pattern. it over here. So now we get to extract the entire find yourself adding a pattern, and it works on it doesn't work on that. Figure out how you can you can use AI for this. Split text that's stuck you can do with the REGEXEXTRACT function. So here but notice there's a pattern. The first letter going to use that pattern as my REGEX pattern if I add another name to this, the name Now, how about using REGEX to replace leading and they have leading zeros. Sometimes it's three, see the number. We want to get rid of these. So Here it is. The text is this. The pattern that additional mandatory argument. We need to tell I just want to get rid of the zeros, so I want quotation, quotation, close the bracket, and press you can make this spill if you want. I could These are actually currently seen as text and not I can put these inside the VALUE function. And zeros. Cleaning up messy text is another great use my project descriptions, sometimes I have emojis, remove. I want to get the description without function. The text is this. The pattern I came quotations. The replacement is nothing. If I want entire range. So now when I press Enter, I get that star is gone. For report, these special have any special character, I get a hash. So I if I happen to have an error, I want to get the and Enter. Now, if at any point in time you decide I actually want to keep this ampersand, all I inside the square brackets, I'm going to put in stays. Insert a character at specific positions. or phone numbers. So here I have a list of the number is seen as text, sometimes it's Excel shows it in this format. I want to format but not a dash at the very end. So what I'm going this. The pattern is this right here. I'm going we're not going to go with nothing because if I go Instead, what I want to do is reference the fourth digit. And to do that, I can use the symbol which in this case is my only capturing group, and I get these properly formatted. To find out take a look at the REGEX Cheat Sheet that we've it is in the description of the video. Okay, so Let me know what you think in the comments if you're new to Excel, I have lots of videos on check out. If you want to learn in a structured Thank you for being here. Thank you for watching,