Located in the Persian Gulf, Qatar is a country kilometers. Just to give you some idea of smaller than California. So, when this country got its independence and and very poor place. As a matter of fact, it was one of the poorest And that made a lot of sense... The Qatar Peninsula is a place where temperatures completely covered by desert and it was certainly But it didn't stay that way forever and planet. That's right, the citizens of this tiny country which is almost three times the income in This is a country which was almost uninhabited, fishing industry, and today it looks something The government of Qatar has investments and birthplace of Al Jazeera, the most important the capital, which is a sea of skyscrapers, "A mix of Monaco and Vegas, but without for simplicity, everything is sumptuous, hugh areas reporter. Qatar has gone from being a dark shelter for people might consider the most open country course, but as you might know Dubai is an In modern day Doha, we can find international a complex of protestant, orthodox and Catholic Rosary. "The $20m Catholic church, which seats 2,700, city on land donated by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa So, now the question of course has to be: Well, let's take a look at that. THE LNG BLESSING: LIQUIFIED NATURAL GAS In other videos we have discussed some of in Qatar's case it is much simpler and it Oil and, more importantly, natural gas... Yep, that is pretty much it... Disappointed? Well, hold on a second because The first oil fields were found in the 1940s, consolidated. And things in the poor country The thing is that it wasn't until the beginning treasure of this country: "The North Field", the largest gas field But... at that time natural gas was not really You see, at that time, gas could only be transported away from anywhere where the gas could be But, well, things they were about to change. In 1996, the old emir, Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani while his father was in Switzerland. This the future of Qatar was gas, they had to exploit And so he did. The new emir decided to invest in an undeveloped Liquefaction, which is the ability to carry transported in large ships as if it were oil. In order to do this, the gas needs to cool Celsius (-258 F). Which is just a touch inconvenient... of resources to boost the development of this scale. Because of that investment Qatar is now the technology, Qatar is able to export its enormous In fact, last year, three quarters of Qatar's South Korea and Japan. And there is more: the industrial complex that the country has managed to have the cheapest world. To illustrate this, a methane tanker of LNG in the United States! And this, dear viewer, is the big secret of Now, this is only a part of the equation. resources, but they also need to use the money up like Angola or Venezuela... So besides this innovative process, Qatar QATAR'S POWER Since Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani reached power In his 18 years leading the country, Qatar's same time becoming richest country on Earth. So, the old emir has plenty of reasons to But, let's move on... Qatar started to generate do you think they are doing with this money? Well, despite what it may look like, they internationally). Qatar has created the "Qatar money all around the world. It is known as "Qatar's Power" because billion!! And hey, the population of Qatar is less than only 300,000 are Qatari citizens, so, well, This fund has made significant real estate In London, a big part of the city belongs in the United States, Qatar was, in 2016, country. In Manhattan alone, this fund has And it is not just real estate, this fund Qatar is, for instance, one of the largest Iberdrola, Barclays Bank, Tiffany &amp; co, Shell of the Russian government. In the image we are about to show you can the production of gas and oil has grown: - they are also investing lots of resources Tens of billions has been spent on highways, centres... and so on. And, well, what's the goal of all of this? replace with the income they get from oil But the moment when the gas business runs &quot;There are no analysts who can say when demand who see peak demand in 2030, others in 2042, This idea they have in investing, instead might be one of the most important differences also rich in natural resources. Most of them find it too easy to spend the the future... When Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani reached power, to gain international influence. You see, for years, Qatar was controlled, just couldn't forget about Iraq's invasion If Qatar wanted to survive they needed to influence. Otherwise, any conflict with Riyadh Besides, natural gas could pay the bills now... that the US take American troops out of their itself as a destination for those troops. about a billion dollars to build the military "The sprawling base 20 miles southwest of 11,000 US military personnel". out a very comprehensive insurance policy... And then we have the founding of Al Jazeera. influence, and they succeeded - something They also developed a foreign policy driving THE BLOCKADE All this political strategy made both the angry. In June of 2017, they announced a blockade, groups and terrorists. Pot calling the kettle black Saudi Arabia? Now, it is true Qatar has some dark secrets, the country is a good ally for the West, especially in the region. The truth is the boycott had a different target: influence and to essentially put them in their However, the blockade has been a total failure... First, Riyadh's position is not that strong... even Kuwait or Oman. Also, Qatar has developed better relationships proved they are strong enough to weather the "Qatar defies Saudi Arabia by restoring And finally, something does need to be made There are plenty of grey areas in Qatar: labour ones of a poor country, the situation of women, Furthermore, the system needs to prove it unlike Dubai, the lead has been taken by public And this is one of the reasons why Dubai is But, hey, it wouldn't be fair to acknowledge capacity, their productive investment, and And now is your turn, who do you think will Gulf? Saudi Arabia or will it be Qatar? Leave your answer in the comments below, as Also don't forget to subscribe to our channel Also, don't forget to check out our friends the vocals in this episode that were not mine!