MALE SPEAKER: So My name is [INAUDIBLE], and for another special talk in We have a very special But before I get into I want to talk briefly &quot;moat,&quot; which you are a lot about in today's talk. Well, according to is a deep, broad, ditch, either that surrounds a castle, other to provide it with a However, thanks to Mr. of value investors, has become an excellent with durable Very few people, to develop and synthesize a helps to identify moats from Pat Dorsey, our has done a great and individual investors In his bestselling Book That Builds Wealth,&quot; he to identify modes in His book is also a great interested in learning We are very, very pleased So without further ado, please join me in [APPLAUSE] PAT DORSEY: Thanks I'm glad we have the technology, here in one of the world's companies. [LAUGHTER] You would have thought in Redmond, Washington. No, I'm joking. Sorry, sorry, it was just It was too easy. It was too easy. You give me a fat to hit it-- or invest So we've done the intros. I'm Pat. I used to run Morningstar's currently have my own Dorsey Asset a global firm, a global mandate. We can invest anywhere in We're very concentrated. And our goal really of the world's advantaged businesses that overtime, invest in them, to make lots of money over time. That's our job, and engaged in doing right now. And the framework we use on the work I did at of economic moats and at high rates of return. And that's what I want So the basic about economic moats and is that-- shocker-- and that capital seeks the If a company is others will seek That intuitively make sense. If I wrote each of you a $50 go start a business, try to do something profitable. If you are smart, you probably [LAUGHTER] I hope. I hope. High profits attract as surely as night follows day. So intuitively this makes sense. Empirically it If you go back over take T1, companies decile of returns on capital. Then roll the clock and look at that Most will have lower Most will have lower as their returns on to some mean as Of course there is a where that's not the case. So most businesses on capital decrease over However, there is a of businesses that of high returns on capital. They essentially beat the odds. They defy economic gravity. And the question And in my view, created structural a way of insulating themselves, against the competition, supernormal returns than academic theory and Because absent a destroys excess returns-- Any highly profitable business with, you will see that come in the fashion industry, in if you guys remember and what was the other big [INAUDIBLE]? They would swap market One had the best chip. Oh, now I've got the best chip. Do-do-do-do. And there's no moat there. The moat was just, what do And then you had a at the other place trying So the basics of are structural and are inherent to the business. A moat is part and that you're looking at. It's not a hot product. We all probably remember They taste good, but Heelys-- anybody remember Remember those little shoes That was an $800 million I mean, yes, as Dave Barry would People were valuing Heelys Aside from the massive once basically schools that's a problem if your can't buy your product anymore. And so that business It's not just a cool We talked about in video a moment ago. Remember Iomega? Remember that was It's just a cool And frankly, any cool can be replicated by unless there's some switch in occurs or an industry But anything that one smart there's probably of guys somewhere else trying And of course, it's not You'll often hear companies talk We're going for market share. Let's think about GM. Let's think about Compaq. It didn't work out so well. Big is not a moat. In fact, small is often Moats generally manifest A company that is unlikely to And in fact, if you invest, that businesses are losing If you have a company who 4% every year. They're able to kind of keep And then one year, They say, well, or we want to take it easy That's a load of crap. It means that something has There's a competitor out there. There is some event be aware of that's causing them Because if you can will take prices as a business. And so companies that lose that the first sign that So what I want to about the four kinds of moats at Morningstar and that I The way we identified this would have been about and it was pretty simple, that had maintained returns on for 15 years plus. It's not a huge data set. And then you what are the common of these businesses? What are the similarities And that's where out these four categories. And they've proven to We introduced the moat ratings And so now we've had about we initially identified as fell into these buckets returns on capital So the empirical results The first kind of And a brand is valuable your willingness to pay or And this is really important. It's not just that Because you think We've all heard of Sony, right? Sony is often ranked as one on the planet by the thingy that happens every year. But let me just do a How many of you would pay 20% One hand? Any hands? AUDIENCE: Maybe 15 years ago. PAT DORSEY: Maybe 15 years ago. That's exactly it. And right now you do see like a little bit of a price Because it's newer. DVDs were newer. But consumer electronics What's new today And so the fact that and we've heard a lot about to its competitive advantage. In fact, I would argue save a heck of a lot of or advertising very little. On Michigan Ave in they have this super with all kinds of cool And I'm sure they're paying God Because that brand doesn't By contrast, let's Tiffany will charge you 20% that you can buy from Blue or wherever you want. 20% is the value of I can guarantee you the [LAUGHTER] OK? But you know as the that you'll probably get a if it's in a Tiffany box than So they can charge it. And so that brand That brand increases And there's value there. You also have brands So think about Coca-Cola You don't pay a lot more but you know you like You like Heinz, so you because you don't want ketchup prices for 20 minutes It's $3. My kids like ketchup. Let's go get the ketchup. We go through ketchup I have twin think ketchup is like It's ridiculous. So again, if a brand by increasing the or reducing the search Just being well known Patents-- obviously a But they are subject to and piracy. And so you want to be very you see this a lot in like where you have one all of your economic value. That patent gets And last time I checked, patent And there's a reason is that patents are And so if they they will be challenged. So you want to rely when you have a that it's hard to Think of Qalcomm. Think of ARM Holdings, this huge portfolio of patents. And then finally, You have a license that not many people that is a pretty Casinos-- not easy to Six of them in Macau. That's it. They ain't giving out any more. Landfills-- no one likes So municipalities don't give because then nobody And that reduces the tax base. So once you have a you probably aren't going to Aircraft parts are have to be FAA a huge moat to the Most aircraft parts They have one manufacturer And so they get about a It's a beautiful business. If you're selling a brand, here's what you want looking at Brands are valuable a consistent or Now, consistency lowers search So what you don't want to do That's the stupidest Remember New Coke? Idiotic. Schlitz-- Schlitz used to be beer in the US, Now not so much, right? And the reason was they They changed the Why would you do this? Recently there was think it was either Heinz a ketchup that the amount of sugar content. They were going to And you just go, stop. If people are buying Aspiration, by contrast, So what you want to do is A very interesting Tiffany is unique in that we brand, but over 40% comes from stuff that's Weird, right? You wouldn't think about that. And it's brilliant. They're one of the can hit volume and But here's how they they do it by You would think drives 40% of your be at the front of You want people to get No, no, no, no, no. Go into a Tiffany store. The cheap stuff is at the back. So the expensive that costs more sitting in the Because that keeps the That maintains an aura of And so they keep Or Patek Phillippe, very the slogan, which don't own a Patek Phillippe. You take care of it for I mean, what a great who can afford $50,000 watches. But it maintains that scarcity, And again, you have looking at brand-based So you want to think about A great example is Jack So these are two different I'm going to do the translations I don't speak So this says, &quot;Happy And as you can look the same image we have the frontier, the And in Russia, that works, own [INAUDIBLE]. They like to get out of the of their sort of Slavic roots. Now compare that with this You're in a very high-end very cool. And I've got this translated, see a few folks here you want to translate AUDIENCE: So it confidence is not by our mouth PAT DORSEY: Confidence but comes from In other words, confidence Totally different, right? Because imagine in China if was like, you should go back That's going to sell a Uh-huh. You know? So again, you see That's what you want to see Second kind of economic It's very simple, just the cost product outweigh the benefits. What you want to do that integrate with the So the upfront cost get huge payback for renewals. Think about an Oracle If you're P&amp;G, if and you're running on an Oracle is virtually impossible. It's not impossible, but it's I mean, if you showed up built an amazing database and we've got Googlebase, and it's than Oracle's best yes, and I will have to spend and however many man hours and my business will probably So the switching And so Oracle can raise the You see this a lot with You also see it with people that integrate tightly You can also sell an ongoing So think of elevators. Once you have an it probably ain't And so you get like Otis, which is part of which is a Finnish company, and their goal is to have a to attach a service Because once that it ain't coming out again. And so you get this long Rolls Royce-- Rolls Royce on what's called They actually sell pay for it based on You don't just and then someone So that's a way of increasing And then you can with a very high Favorite example here is a in the US. If you have one bolt on your and then you have a whole bunch around basically getting you will pay a lot of back on the line really quickly. And so that product doesn't in terms of how would But it has a huge benefit Fuchs Petrolube or Lubrizol, back, same thing-- lubricants-- can increase the uptime of in a hole by 10% so you for maintenance as often, apart and lube everything, and of it, and that 20% more than the it's such a tiny part of that machine, why not? So this high benefit/cost to look for when you're looking costs. You've got the network providing a service in value as the number You can aggregate demand Think of distributors. Henry Schein is a So basically most dentists are three, four, five And then they've They've got to buy those stick in your mouth and give you cotton They've got to buy dental And basically what they're Fragmented demand, and they bring the two a lot of economic One thing to watch for here effect works so well of nodes versus connections. So if you have a web, and the goes from one to two to three to increases exponentially. So that is something that a network once the network gains should be pretty One thing you want is radial versus So the interactive described, the web, where each A radial network So this is a good lesson when we looked at Western Union. So Western Union helps people And they talk about, we have of any money in the world, which is true. The problem is that no one is to Mexico City. They're sending money for Mexico City to LA or from We have a huge Bangladeshi No one is sending to Mexico City or vice versa. So that route means nothing. So it's basically a series of off different nodes that to pick off by underpricing So radial networks are than interactive ones, we found. And then the final type This is kind of But the thing is, there's that you should look for when A process-based inventing a cheaper that is hard to Southwest did this. Dell did this. Ryanair did this. Inditext, which owns the Zara is great example. They had their clothes the clothes made in Bangladesh But of course, because you have to basically bet six months in advance. What Inditext figured out was if they get the stuff get the stuff made they can have much much faster responses to Now, you can copy that, right? You can copy that. But it works pretty well And so process-based cost But then they get Southwest no longer per available seat mile. People saw what they Scale, by contrast, when over a large base, that tends So think about this big going around a neighborhood. What's the additional cost on the UPS van? De minimus, right? And so your margin on It's very difficult to compete. A good example is DHL, which has a very dense They lost over a to compete with UPS and FedEx They couldn't do it simply There weren't as as there were brown vans Scale-based advantages, are incredibly robust. And you can have establish a minimum There are some niches, that can only profitably If another player comes in, returns come down so that so that new entrant never The businesses often can't kind of trapped there, but they So what about management? You notice I haven't said a There's a great quote that, &quot;Good jockeys will but not on broken-down nags.&quot; So this is a professional He is a very good manager. Sadly, he is on a bad So if you enter this in a race, By contrast, if you got know how to ride a horse, I probably beat the goat. Because the horse for winning races than the goat. You're not going to get The goat is better for that. But it's very well So the key here is that you You want to look Its not that the It's that even the best isn't going to make you a lot Managers matter in the And the way to think The required level is inversely related to the The worst the business, The better the business-- isn't that stupid, If it's a really bad have an awesome manager. This is Ryanair. O'Leary is a absolute genius. He's a jerk and customers but he has created an Ryanair is scale By contrast, if you have a great You saw where this What that actually what's happened to Microsoft's Again, it's an easy target I mean, Steve spent 12 years setting as far as I can tell. AUDIENCE: What do you PAT DORSEY: Well, Twitter-- And also that was [LAUGHTER] The question was, I haven't figured out what I haven't figured out I mean, they may have I just don't know what it is. But I haven't spent although I think it was wasn't it? Anyway, I probably So the key here is that moats Microsoft minted money despite them shoveling The core office, the were strong enough that maintained pretty high New Coke didn't kill was robust enough. The brand is strong enough. Moody's put profits actively screwed cranked out a 40% That's a pretty good moat. But even a genius couldn't change the fact that is the worst industry I mean, he's an amazing manager. If you've ever met him, read any he's incredible. He's inspirational. JetBlue was like 30-odd times Because it had I mean, an airline will than the day it Why? Planes don't get newer. They get older. Employees don't They get more. So the planes cost more to run. The employees want more money. So the cost structure is Again, great jockey on a goat. Good managers are to widen a company's moat. Think about Amazon's focus It's not so much about scale. It's about the Here's a great-- let I've tried this at other How many of you bought without checking OK, that's like 2/3, Isn't that an amazing I mean, how hard is it to What's the caloric cost It's not high, right? But I've talked to about 45 I get about the same except in Germany. The Germans didn't has not been as-- there's more. There's Zalando. There's a lot of But in the US, this is And a lot of this is the Trust matters more And I give Amazon enormous early, that offline in a I give you money, you give me There's no trust involved. Online, I have to trust you I have to trust you don't I have to trust it arrives I have to trust you'll take There's a lot of trust involved. And that enabled the ability a brand in retailing, which to do that in. Think about Costco's focus on Costco gets bigger, cost savings That brings in more allows more cost savings that That's what drives That's all they think Now by contrast, bad outside a company's moat, on capital. This process is called fire to large piles of cash, OK? This is basically what you don't Example-- Cisco moving into acquisition, I think it was. What on earth was that? You had this gorgeous, sticky and you start selling consumer buys off the shelf My set-top box at home and I could just curse I looked at it. Because it was just to go into-- fast no competitive advantage. The whole network-centered comb. So what? Remember Garmin? Anybody remember Nobody? OK, so Garmin had this in GPS devices in a much better So business jets, have Garmin as the You own a plane, you really So that business was a And so they see, oh, gosh, to a feature that's basically Oh, let's not relaxed and just get out Let's double down and compete with Ericsson and And so again, you see you see a business do as opposed to out of trying to maintain It's a horrible sign. Yep-- question? AUDIENCE: How do you from the innovator? Like Good, for example. PAT DORSEY: Great question, I knew this was coming. So the question is how from being innovative? Because Google is doing Google is not doing or because their core Google is doing it as a way of a great business in the future. And it's a subtle is it's coming out of strength. Google's core business It's when you see a company's or the competitive and they try to basically invest So Cisco, one of went into consumer was to compensate for the market was slowing down. Or you can just say, hey, guys, anymore. That would have been the Instead, they go out to dry pallets of cash by Remember the Flip? $800 million on basically that will about six I mean, you know, versus out of strength. Yep, another question. AUDIENCE: How much of is correlated with the fact are sometimes wide moats Imagine if you have an not-- PAT DORSEY: Yeah, is sort of how much is correlated to businesses that I think it's a good-- a decent chunk of Cisco. But I do think you with owner-operator businesses. You see it more frequently with where if the CEO get a giant golden parachute golf and nobody's the worse owned the stock. So I think by having you lessen this chance. But they're not infallible. I mean, the danger businesses that can't And especially you see with tech companies. Not, not just tech companies, So this happened to McDonald's. It happened to Home Depot, to Cisco, happened to Microsoft. As they get larger and have to to be mature continuing to act like in their 50s. It's like the trying to date a 20-year-old. It's just inappropriate. And it's the same a super successful And they just kept opening new I remember there was a Starbucks opened Starbucks [LAUGHTER] Because they were just And Howard Schultz that the return on capital was really not very high. And so the better way was not to open crap it was slow openings more money, increasing ticket and so forth, at So I mean, many businesses So we'll get the Joker Now there is, I should to every rule about and the horse being more There are a tiny who can create enormous value even if they don't Warren Buffett at Berkshire for God's sake. Brian Joffe at Bidvest, which started with nothing. And now they do logistics, they do food service-- Dick Kovacevich at Wells is tough business, But what Kovacevich is nothing short of amazing. Steven M. Rales at has actually beaten Berkshire in terms of shareholder returns. It started off selling And they bought Beckman big diagnostics firm. So again, there is an There is a tiny that can make something So keep an eye out for them. They're hard to find, but these guys can create So just to kind of sideline but my point here-- I of here thinking management is this tiny can just do amazing things. Yeah, there's a question AUDIENCE: I was wondering in all of this, in the that are created like New Coke. Maybe they should not For every New Coke maybe there is another that did work out. PAT DORSEY: Sadly, lend itself well to Because you have where you had highly where you have this huge, long incredibly well, and a You probably would there's a recent book by &quot;Three Rules&quot; where they did analysis on returns on and they did a whole bunch They did a lot of controlling to try to kind of eliminate with things and looking sort identified businesses that a long period of time. But there is a luck I mean, example from Berkshire early on went to Washington, to try to learn about He got the janitor. He basically banged And I can't remember the Buffett nuts probably and basically gave him on how to do insurance well. If that hadn't have really gotten in insurance then created Maybe not. So my point here is simply Chance is part of it. But your choice is either and I'm just going is a completely rational or if we want to try to we look for common that seem to have held up But there is a role of chance in And that's a weakness the &quot;Built to Last,&quot; and lot You would also enjoy a book which really does a great disintegrating the It's a really good book. Yeah. AUDIENCE: So you talked about What about the know for a large especially the returns are going and temporarily you can there are times extremely is even lower. And it kind of does that maybe over time And maybe you can identify PAT DORSEY: So these are the-- AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PAT DORSEY: --crappy businesses AUDIENCE: Yeah. PAT DORSEY: No, I you mean, the sort of low returns on capital Look, that's sort of traditional So to find the as if it's going to go out of you do pretty well, right? Or it goes from a to a 5% margin business. That is a fine way to invest. Typically these are not It's more what we call kind Again, you can make It's not how I choose to make lots of money that way. What I would say if you're going to is time is not your friend. Because the intrinsic businesses is And if they don't you're left with Whereas there's a great at the Sequoia the friend of the wonderful Because it builds And that becomes a sort of an So again, if you are going to go diving, you can but just be aware of Because what you're buying is So just in a global it's important to remember local OK? Foreign companies aren't Thus, the Canadian be insanely profitable, than banks in almost any In Germany-- this Most German you to wash your car in your These are environmental So car washing is actually in Germany. Because Germans can't wash in your And so there's a called WashTec that makes all the consumables, the in car washes. This business could So that's a local difference. So they can create moats. You also see minimum efficient So retailing is a tough Because it's a huge South African retailers that make Costco It's not entirely great returns on capital. And the reason is simple. It's a relatively small market. And once you've got the it's really hard for And global players because it's just not Why am I going to of money coming in Walmart recently came bought a local player. They didn't try to BEC World is the of Thai language media. So if you want to watch a broadcast, they own most It's awesome business. I mean, Thailand Thai is not as commonly So now you have The odds that you have a are lower than if you created, And then you also have For example, beer travels-- I mean, when I was Carlsberg all over the place. It's crappy beer. I don't know why. But Carlsberg seemed Beer travels pretty well. Spirits travel pretty well. Candy and snacks don't. The snacks you grew up with, is what you will probably You try to sell and they say it basically Whereas Cadbury to most And like the Mexicans had Carlos Quinto, cardboard as far as I can tell. [LAUGHTER] Like the bar, have to change the actually says, It's like Kraft and Esh. But anyway, Calbee that makes Japanese going to see in the US. But Frito Lay ain't gonna So these cultural in different countries. So why does all this matter? Why am I talking about moats? Who cares? Pretty simple-- moats A company that can compound cash worth more than a And you can think with you've got on the vertical axis, time And for the no-moat come down pretty fast So there's less time as you reinvest cash. For the wide-moat business, to reinvest capital at a high Now this brings up the And if you're looking about investing in the value is largely dependent The ability to reinvest cash of return is a If you can plow that cash continue to take market share, give a long runway makes a business worth paying Somebody mentioned to me Whitney He said he didn't buy on because the PE was high, to reinvest in the Fastenal has this. XPO, which is a that does truck By contrast, if a firm has the moat doesn't add It adds certainty. It adds confidence. It narrows the range But it doesn't add because they can't reinvest. Think about McCormick. McCormick owns the They own most of spices you get from have the M-labeled But you know what? The consumption of turmeric is Not happen, all right? And so McCormick has to So that moat is valuable in confidence, but I want to pay 30 times Because they can't Microsoft, Oracle-- The cash has to come out because And another important limited to these super stable own, the Warren Those are a fairly small subset And as I just mentioned, they opportunities. Moat-y businesses that But moat-y businesses that into the business are And when you've confined those it is very likely they'll And so when you think the last takeaway I'll leave you means you'll pay for never materializes. Underestimating the moat means cost. So let's look at a real This is a chart of Remember the Razr? How many you owned a Razr? A fair amount. How many of you owned a And that would be nobody. OK, exactly-- so the razor And everybody goes bananas. And Motorola goes And the market says, You've got a moat! You've got this It's a piece of hardware. There's no proprietary software. There's no switching cost. As soon as the next you're gonna go buy that, And so we see what happens. Stock craters. Motorola has 10% market share. People basically overestimated and got hosed on the Hosed is a technical term we [LAUGHTER] Now, there's an opportunity So this is Walmart '97 it went bananas Buffett-- and this is a story about '04, '06-- they started of Walmart back in '95. And then he said, the Let's wait a bit. Let's not buy any more. And look what Stock went from 10 That decision-- this is the He said that what he on Walmart, basically cost Berkshire $8 billion in And the reason was at that a good retailer. He didn't say Walmart and so we'll pay up a little here being that when you find don't pay 100 times earnings, for in 1999, but you pay more. It's worth more. It's going to compound Because then you suffer And most investors, I've on margin of safety and not And it's something to really And people often ask me, isn't We already know these are Well, less often than you own securities for very The average US mutual fund It's about a one-year That's the average. There's plenty of folks who period. Moats matter in the long Most investors also assume persists for longer And so when things are they say things will not that this moat will help And finally, most investors in price, not long-term Because finding motes means What I've found is that tends to be very Qualitative insight, the structural characteristics the switching costs, behave the way they do, why a little bit every to be less efficiently priced. Because, great quote from Bill is in the past, but all of So the future value come from things not necessarily the information And with that, we'll Thanks, guys. AUDIENCE: The question you follow once you have And once you have do you try to do an analysis be worth and what cash it can years to compare between the have the moats? And now once you have that have a good moat, PAT DORSEY: Sure. So that's a good question And I think establishing that database of companies at some price because the and the compounding potential are above average or solid. I think it's a good get kind of a rough idea. Like would I want to buy Would I want to buy this because it's not Just something super rough. And then you just wait. And as it gets closer then you really then you do the really maybe put together a OK, was my initial idea right? But you kind of have to in the ground, or you don't know when And you can't dig even if you do this for AUDIENCE: So a follow-up Now, if you are once you have identified do some kind of analysis then it doesn't really matter. You have two classes One of more that's investing in just giving the share PAT DORSEY: Yep, yep. Good way to segment it. AUDIENCE: Then that much if you're doing a formal with these numbers and-- PAT DORSEY: It only you would want to pay Because a business for example, you're not going to Because it's never going A business, whether it's I better put it up there-- is doing for-profit Africa, which has a huge profitable. There you'd pay a this massive runway ahead of it. And also I think the thing there is that for the mature paying out a lot, going to make most of your and value. Because intrinsic value is only whereas for the business that has that long probably going to make over time on the compounding So then a smaller makes more sense, to make all this and not in that closing And also, like if you were to 10 times earnings, And that's the opportunity AUDIENCE: If you can give in the process that you and maybe what you follow. One of the interesting has made it really and figure out what are the of reverse engineer by looking at the analysis. But I think the real value is in I've heard you talk about So maybe if you can just talk go about finding things recognized even as a wide moat. There's a standard list recognized as wide-moat But say you want to How would you go about it? PAT DORSEY: Great give you a couple So the Cokes and the and the Nestles-- these are all So let's think about this. They probably have to get their right? Well, there's a One is called Givaudan. One is called International It's the only one in the US. One's called Symrise. There's one in They're flavor specialists. And when a company wants a like a particular a particular kind of do it themselves. Oftentimes they'll turn are ingredient And there's about four or insanely profitable. Because of course, once you makes Fritos crunch you're not changing that, right? You're done. Or another example a company called Novozymes, Christopher Hanson, They make enzymes, enzymes that enzymes that will accelerate the again, things that are to the eventual experience but that are pretty tiny And that's a value chain thing, back-- aircraft, another thing. So we know that airlines kind But they've got to get OK, so then you look Those are OK businesses. And the reason is very simple. People think these should be Because they're huge can make airplanes, right? And they're wide bodies. But at the end of the day, an If I'm Emirates or I'm that gets the most people at the cheapest price. I don't care if it's You don't care. Do any of you care if you Who cares, right? I mean, I guess the I've always wanted But I'm not going to pay to fly on it. So they're-- eh-- a OK, so let's follow Aircraft-- they got to get Hm. Well, the parts tend to be engineered. They're customized for The fuel pumps in the 737 pumps in the 757 or the A320. And they tend to be sole-source. Because they're developed when Boeing and Airbus That's really all assembling for the most part. And so then you get these that are sole-source. And as long as that you've got one guy you And he is going to charge you whatever he wants. And so that's another kind You almost just do a map, and say, OK, these to get this input this input from somewhere, Where's the money made? I mean, every industry, And sometimes there's almost Eh. Almost no one makes Except Johnson Controls because they'll do like kind of slot it in. Or there's a company that does auto dimming And they have some that make it pretty profitable. But those are just a AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]? PAT DORSEY: Auto retailing AUDIENCE: I mean PAT DORSEY: Oh, auto yeah, yeah, AutoZone. And again, you go back, and Because if you're the is passed through. If you take your car you're not shopping The mechanic is He just passes through So there's a margin made on it. You don't know what Maybe you do know I don't know. But I barely know much less could I So again, you have between the payer and the buyer. AUDIENCE: So you talked about And there are a When it's an emerging like some of those signs of often the return The valuation is Because the company has not How would you value a or value a moat in that state? PAT DORSEY: Yeah, So that's where a discounted becomes useful. And it's not that DCF is a It just forces you to think of the business over to the gap counting of the short run, which So in the case of a business returns are poor today but it there, it looks a moat, what I Think about three set, fixed and So what is the opportunity How big could this thing get? What could they sell to time, five years' And then say, OK, will need to invest There's some number amount. They'll need to build new whatever it might be. And then there will be Some amount will drop And over time, more should if it's a decent Who knows if it is. And you just kind of math And then say, OK, go from a 6% percent to a 12% return on and start generating And then we get a as you kind of do it out. So for example, we're looking SimCorp, which expensive back-end software like $100 billion runs the whole Now, basically they've 6% per year for Because they've not done for a bunch of reasons that That's what we're But basically we've and that 5%, 6% covers their cost about a low 20s margin. But every bit of incremental so going from 5% to 10%, you And then that, then, from probably low 20s up a lot. But you don't know is until you think it through. Another example-- so when on MasterCard, when it went I remember our analyst price target on it. And I was like, dude, This thing is coming We're not going to stick Come on. How good a business is this? And what he did through fixed versus OK, very little variable You've got a fixed cost of a network. But then of the tons will flow down And this is where-- and this modeling out a don't model in percentages. Model in dollars. So it optically margins are going to Ah! This is huge. My God, that's never So don't do it in percentages. Don't do operating Think about, OK, How many dollars will to get each dollar of And then see what operating And you may come to a AUDIENCE: Is that like PAT DORSEY: Yeah, it's And I have found that operating one of the most mispriced because nobody wants to like manager or the a model that shows something Because they're going to get it you're nuts, man. There's no way. Forget about it, like, nah. But it can happen. It happened with C&amp;E. It It's happened with Google. It happened with OpenTable. When you get these with very high because you get this of additional revenue can do some pretty But you'll only figure that You've got to just What do I need to spend for each AUDIENCE: So for network about like eBay or Alibaba, seems like they're You're talking about not something like Facebook. So it appears the only It's not like buyers sell this stuff. PAT DORSEY: Oh, OK, that's to think about it. OK, I see what you're saying. You're right. It is just seller to buyer. But the more buyers the more sellers are going to right? It's not as if it's Like let's imagine that eBay I don't know, whatever. Then you could have could pick that market off. I could invent a better platform Whereas if you know I'm probably going and whatever I want to sell, that creates all But I kind of see-- I had never that for being a radial network. I wouldn't characterize Because any buyer can the best way to describe it. Any buyer on eBay can interact And depending on what that transaction could occur. Whereas although I can to Mexico City, to go there's no reason to, right? I mean, you don't have And immigrants are one of the network to send money back You just don't have people to Bangladesh or vice versa. There may be a huge Mexican I don't know. I don't think there is. [LAUGHTER] But that was a cool way Yeah. AUDIENCE: Thank you. So I have one question, Pat. I'm always very curious about perspective, what would 10 years, what have been some and sort of what you've PAT DORSEY: Yeah, thank you. That's a good one. Thank you for forcing me to air I appreciate that. [LAUGHTER] AUDIENCE: It will go on YouTube. PAT DORSEY: No, no, it's OK. It's OK. Yes, hello, YouTube. How are you? [LAUGHTER] No, seriously. No, actually, it's a And I would say that I've thing right a couple of times. I've missed it more So that's one that annoys is that thinking carefully about carefully about network I've done OK at that, but There's some pitches I missed I think. The bigger one, though, Definitely as I've done more making caps, that are can have a bigger effect It's just easier to drive a And as I've done I would call capital allocator Asset Management or or PSG in South I've gained a much for what the truly And I think as I reflect came from kind of a reaction thing, where John Howard Schultz of Starbucks of cult of the hero CEO especially in the US, where is vastly overpaid for And option expensing, you And so I think some doesn't matter as much. Some of it was probably just to a lot of that, it's But with time, hopefully the And I guess I've just developed the truly exceptional And again, I do want to And you're not truly were on the cover of You are not truly exceptional package. You are truly are passionate and you understand how That's what makes an But I would say wish I had appreciated but something we're working I mean, in our current five are what I would call AUDIENCE: Thanks. Actually, that brought &quot;The Outsiders.&quot; PAT DORSEY: Yeah, great book. AUDIENCE: Yeah, about PAT DORSEY: Yeah. &quot;Outsiders&quot; is a great book. If you haven't read it's an awesome Will Thorndike wrote it. Yeah, definitely that the past coupld of years. AUDIENCE: So while we're and like good one example that you The Rales brothers, which right now is in because they sell to And this is one of kind we don't really see Would you have any would like to share with us? PAT DORSEY: Yeah, bet against the Rales brothers. That that's a low-odds bet. No, Colfax is We need to ramp right now, because we sort of that sell into oil and gotten whacked lately. I have not followed I mean, we owned it after when they basically four times their size and overnight with what they I think I would say the and it's very fertile ground What I would say, the is buy solid businesses and via lean manufacturing for the most part, the It's different than, say, like a we do own, which tend to own to make even better via or better capital allocation. But the Rales brothers are AUDIENCE: The hard are kind of watching it as it as Do these underlying have any kind of moat or not? And since there's no How do you actually go out and say, yes, these businesses now that they are in the Colfax. PAT DORSEY: Yeah, so there's a One is looking carefully at Because you're looking for not what they are today. And so there, you want to almost right? And say, why does a customer What does it by a Why does it buy welding And then get in and then see what And maybe there's sticking-- I don't know. That would be a way to But then also, and to the one slide about the operational excellence can rarely. But in the hands of like an in the hands of a truly manager, operational excellence, back at Danaher, can Because you just do everything than everybody else. You manage to eke out an Not common, not try to have a whole because they're But I would say that the track is good enough that if anyone into strategic be on the pretty short list. MALE SPEAKER: All With that, thank you very much PAT DORSEY: Thanks, Surat. This has been fun. Awesome, thanks. [APPLAUSE] This has been fun.