so bring on the I'll show you if you should ask it let's dance together - Got a terrific With the CDR now - Still... We are at war. I'm responsible for the Of young Americans, to And some will kill. And some will be killed. And so I come here Of the costs of armed conflict. Filled with difficult The relationship And our effort to replace - Okay Crib we copy that. We've got TV pictures again. - hefty, - They were five months Both sides were in trenches. They were just mass slaughter Men were standing up sleeping. They were in their Dead comrades were sitting They couldn't even get them and Bring them back for burial. It was christmas eve and Had sent little christmas trees. It was like a stage Across the german front, you saw These little Christmas And then the allies Being sung by the germans. And they started applauding. And then all of a On both sides get And start walking - And expecting any Through the machine And nothing happened. And within two hours And laughing and Was nothing from - hundreds get Then thousands get And they embraced each - All no man's land as It was grey and cocky. The early were Shaking hands, Addresses for after the war, - Everybody back And shouting, the generals And got a bit suspicious. So what they did, For a battery of guns And officers fired their Course that started Woah we were - this was a This was the war to make the At least 21,000 new millionaires Billions and billions of dollars Munition makers, ship And let us not Who financed the great war, And their profits were as All of them are - I stand before you tonight In my red star chiffon My face softly made up, and The Iron Lady of - The Al-Yamamah deal was this Extraordinary deal And Saudi Arabia, in which Sell the Saudis Dollars worth of equipment. But the Israeli And congress Because they feared arming So Ronald Reagan handed To his political soul - You ain't seen nothing yet. - You are a very - When we stumbled on The Al-Yamamah arms To stumble on a central Over the last 30 years. - His royal highness, Has been at the heart of Events of the past 30 years. I was always pleased to see Because he brought Insights and bold proposals. - She informed us, she considered Saudi Arabia as a Be willing to With whatever the kingdom needs. End of discussion, from Else was technical. - He explained to This was a deal And therefore things They wanted 43 billion That was 6 billion The vast majority, or what most - We will continue to work Who threaten the way of Was a man called Eddy He said, &quot;I've been working &quot;and we had a kind &quot;to distribute to &quot;when they came to &quot;all to help the path When Saudi military He would present them That was something Another thing they So he would take And get them girls. - To be honest, it seemed Payments made, Rather un-islamic activities. Gaming chips, there were - There's only two things that Money and sex. The rest, you can write Is absolute garbage. You can make a weapon beautiful, Because, they are Looking at your secretary's ass Than thinking what the And that is, sometimes, I had to use an escort Because of the special taste of The chief of staff of the army, Who liked blondes We had their secretary Come and review the photos. And he said, &quot;I want this &quot;I want this one, I had the girls I arrived And I said, girls, I Handsomely for this If you get any pillow Please bring it across And for each, I will give another So with 60 grand, I signed a So it wasn't bad deal. - And then my phone rang again, And it was another whistle &quot;you have no idea what it is And he said, &quot;this Our job was to look after Those who used to Who were being bribed, Were people of the The Saudi air force, We would fly them And they would buy And it wasn't shopping In the end, when they Their shopping, we would To fly it all back - It was an attempt to The bank accounts who the That the case became As the trail appeared Senior members of the - The most outrageous In order to smooth the At one point made him Commercial airliner, Which he promptly had And silver colors of Who were his favorite And he used to fly around - The case centered Ultimate beneficiaries Large amounts of money For consultancy services. - there's evidence Mrs. Thatcher's son, For his work as a fixer. - This is a fire nine mill. It's okay, it's not loaded. Don't worry. It's a very beautiful If you want to And you're looking probably - and why do - Because I'm a soldier. - and you - Yes and no, but yeah, As long as it's in the house. And you don't shoot the I got nothing against Bribes to politicians, The thing about They're very much But only more expensive. The politics is dictated by Politicians are nothing more They have as much Ranking executive At the end of the day - When an executive goes to bribe A foreign official, Look I've taken a lot Five million dollars, that I'm Paying to the prime He makes an arrangement I'll hand over the five million, But you take half of And you send it to the following Bank account in Switzerland. We'll share in this largess. The first time an And he collects 2.5 He says, &quot;wow, this is a And within moments He is now no longer in the He's in the business And he's now scouring the world For somebody to find to bribe. regrets and I've had a few but then again too few to mention I did what I had to do and saw it through without exemption I planned each chartered course each careful step along the by-way and more much more than this I did it my way - And then the phone rang again. And this was somebody &quot;no idea what you're He said, &quot;this whole &quot;much bigger, goes What he had was Never see as a journalist. Swiss bank records of Going all over the world. He showed me how BAE had With lloyds bank, under Secret payments into the Offshore company And from red diamond This guy's swiss Then used it to distribute Taking a big chunk - I mean I can I mean that we, and I Are not in the business Passing, as you suggest, I mean it is just not the - We were actually What was our most dangerous Had been given not just a plane, But over the years, a total - We did not invent Corruption. I mean Adam and And they had hanky-panky Go down to earth, so... And this is human nature. - I salute a And a friend. - What is greed? Of course none of us are greedy, It's only the other This... The world runs on individual's Pursuing their - All those people who Violence, et cetera, So called primal instincts, And everything else is They've lost their mind. And for the last Policy has been made based And it's ruined the world. - Alright. - Mr. Reagan, if you would. - Patronites believe there So we have to nurture I don't accept that at all. I think there are Policy initiatives Welcome to beirut. They are saying hello to you. There's a combination A society that Of it's budget is going to Building up a They have made a moral decision. That militarism Than the creation of It's not the world I want to live in And the real world is Including love and generosity. - My god, if you The freedom of human To pursue their own values. - I think what the term freedom Means is economic license. And it's the economic Who control property, and Has in fact been a threat, But a threat to the All over the world, And the United States, In Asia, and in Latin America. - I want you to In which you've had any large Where capitalism Has not been the - The free enterprise system Has spread through And those arms were That was government Under the name of the But a government The freedoms of many people. Not least of which are - From the 1950's, all the The CIA and the U.S. In covert actions throughout Throughout Africa, really Where they were assassinating They were backing up Funding and arming Contras in Nicaragua, or And there were these Across the globe. - In countries like Been killed to be quiet. To know that any day, Be killed, you don't know We were fighting an We are fighting, Minds that don't want to But just extraction. It's not only about But taking from the people. Even your dreams get colonized. - The last half of what Turned out to be Many parts of the world. From the standpoint of The victims of, what I Of people trying to There was an attempt To create an alternative But in the early 1970's, And it was stopped through By the global law Institutions of the The world bank, the IMF. So, it's not simply Of the south were Forward their dreams. I use a very strong word. These dreams were assassinated. It's not just the The coup here, the coup there. It's the entire dream - The joint hearings Committee to Transaction with Iran. And the select committee Assistance to Iran and We will come to order. - Congress began to To be an insanely out of Actions with little to no - We have been To terrorist nations, In military activities in And lying to the congress. Now I believe that That kind of abuse. - And people like Dick Who were relatively new Did not like when To step in and confront the And what's become a very Cheney then went on, during To serve in congress, Scandal broke out into the open, Cheney did not like With anything that the And you had this Emanated from the highest And the Reagan As though it had - I've told you all that I know. And you know, the For quite some long Is what I told you. - Did they deceive you? You didn't answer whether Mr. President! - Our witness this morning The former national security Mr. Mcfarlane we Committee and we look - Mr. Mcfarlane, Discussion about the possibility Of, in effect, farming out Operations in Nicaragua Which we'll call country one? - Yes that's correct. - And did you, in fact, Money from another country, Which we'll call country two? - That's correct. I had the practice of With the official About assistance In some cases arm sales. And he intended to Of a million dollars per Through the end of the year. - You have no problems - We have no problem United states The CIA does not work Government, then I think - There have been occasions Have questioned - Well thank heavens Was not in connection - I think that there Shadow government, trying to run Foreign affairs for - These events have By some pretty We've heard talk of a grave And even been A coup in the White House. - Not only does Cheney, Iran-contra, but he Is actually a model Should be conducting it's He is a radical Of the unitary executive. Effectively what On certain parts We don't have a democracy, - As a matter of fact I was... Very definitely involved About support to the My idea to begin with. - In my opinion there's For further restrictions And flexibility of - The national security Composed of people Door multiple times - The nomination To be secretary of - they make a name Industry, and then they This revolving door keeps Very small, and very wealthy. And increasing it's wealth To the extent that then, As Cheney did, A member of the plutocracy, - This is an impressive crowd. The have's. And the have more's. - Cheney commissioned a To find out how much more Could be privatized. - Halliburton. Proud to serve our troops. - Halliburton was elated Dollar contract, and A verdict that, &quot;lots more of it - Dick Cheney leaves And goes and heads And he spends the Up the Halliburton war empire. - Well, if we're gonna We might as well I'm happy to accept. - Then he comes back into And then they start In advance even of U.S. Halliburton personnel Being deployed to the gulf. It's hard to look These guys had a For how they were The powerful infrastructure What we've essentially A network of corporations Fire power of small That could, you Small governments - In essence, we in Have privatized the ultimate - You know bombs have got a You know munitions has got, You gotta get rid of it. In Iraq, the F-16s Six million dollars Coming back, re-arming - There's no hope of ending war, Because there's Of people for whom war is It doesn't matter that we're Halliburton could care less. It's good for them, Well we've undergone a corporate Coup d'etat, in slow motion. To quote John Ralston saul. 35,000 lobbyists in The legislation, - All it takes is From somebody on In the Pentagon, saying, &quot;the hill's out to &quot;the guy's in the &quot;we need you to turn &quot;to straighten this thing out.&quot; The Gucci shoe guys And what this does is And that's the whole It's called political And unlike political science, One of the most important It essentially A self-licking ice-cream cone. And it's like a For getting ever The way we do it is Future consequences We over promise Under promise it's cost. We then, systematically And profits to as many As quickly as possible, Has skin in the game. - The people who are Are people like the largest Lockheed Martin. They will die before - And while we don't know what's Going to change the world next, We're probably - Lockheed Martin Like an octopus, and You know, in all branches And then they hold them. And that's how they operate. They make the mafia look - Fiscal year 1999, Fiscal year 2000, The Pentagon has That the reason it can't Is because it's computers With each other. - One trillion, one dollar bills, Stacked high would reach One third of the - I got a Saying that I was a And that's what happens The big boys. Who has the contracts Those systems communicate And how much have the - There are times Do things they should They tend to be suspended There are times then Can get out of the penalty - This company was never If you could proceed to - The second question... I've forgotten what the - Individuals operating And never having Are able to leverage the And the foreign Their own personal - What now? How do we justify All this planes, What better new enemy Invisible enemy called - I think at the When we realize how A permanent state Often proponents of Counter-terrorism Think of as a long Without end, And I think that Is a political regime That is sustained by fear. This is a very old... It's a very old I mean, Machiavelli &quot;is it better for the Prince And his conclusion Of fear, the source of In the Prince, it can be Whereas the locus of love, It's in their power. And so for them could be So Machiavelli already He probably doesn't What would it mean to have Like the basis of Be founded on love? - I don't think one And nature of the One just has to keep the To support it. - But what I want to bring Is the potentially much Between Iraq and the - Every word in that The director of And his deputy director. So there's nothing There was nothing And in fact, some Extra things in there, Community wouldn't verify And I said no. - Powell grabbed me, physically, Which was unlike him, At the CIA, at &quot;throw all the material &quot;about terrorism - About this amount, - Within an hour, Of central intelligence, Bombshell presentation. We have just learned Al-Qaeda operative, About significant Baghdad's Mukhabarat, This was devastating. Here's a director of Telling the Secretary of State That he has Well the secretary &quot;put it back in.&quot; - Al-Qaeda continues In acquiring weapons As with the story of I can trace the story of a Telling how Iraq In these weapons to Al-Qaeda. - Later I learn that That it hadn't just It had happened months before. That he'd been water-boarded No U.S. Personnel were present. And he had recanted And we never were - Every statement I Up by sources, solid sources. These are not assertions. What we're giving you Based on solid intelligence. - We were, indisputably, - At this hour, Forces are in the early To disarm Iraq, to And to defend the world - As Karl Rove famously &quot;now you guys are reality &quot;we make reality. &quot;by the time you &quot;what's wrong with our reality, &quot;we've moved on to the - Did you sell or cause to Of Saddam Hussein weapons - Did the United States - Iran-Iraq was on On the Iranian side, and I I was actually given a gas kit. And so they let me Right all the way up to Tehran. And the carriages were Soldiers who'd been gassed. Some were just And one man was And he would sort of And wipe the blood off his lips. Gradually the corridors With a sort of very sick smell. And I realized it The gas that they were And I was going Opening all the windows Trying to clean the Of, obviously, chemical warfare. After 2003 I was being Especially from America. Well you're complaining And I said, excuse Of Iranians gassed And the chemical components At the very time that your - You were meeting I think we have Of that meeting. Tell me what was going - Where did you get this video, - When did they give it to - We've dug this out - I see. Isn't that interesting. There I am. - Our war on terror, Begins with Al-Qaeda. But it does not end there. - This very phrase, Is irrational. It's like saying, a war on war. A war on violence, a war that... It's nonsense. You're stepping into Of, perpetual war. - Good morning - They lack at reassuring us, And we kept believing You don't want to think Is deceiving you in There's nothing more serious. we can change the world - When the serious It's investigation That we were uncovering, That many of these Been forced through by - He's a dedicated Whatever that was at his He always backed the arms sale. - The serious fraud Of uncovering the secret By which BAE was funneling The swiss said The bank account holders. Bandar flew to london and He ordered the To close down their we can change the world - Prince Bandar said if the They would withdraw national Which would lead, in the &quot;to blood on the - The story we've For more than five years, Because everybody Cover-up scandal. The spectacle of a Closing down a criminal His own reasons. - Were you aware that your Government was approving Of president British aerospace's Is that why you suspended - When Tony Blair National security interest, A card that trumps all others. - I don't believe Incidentally would Except to the complete wreckage Of a vital, strategic In terms of fighting Of the middle east, in terms - So this thing's It seems to be a Of organizing bribe payment. Out the military equipment, we can change the world - Blair came to To lobby the BAE, the Who won the biggest our time has come - And the option Was two and half Than the plane that the Actually wanted. - BAE systems. Real performance. Real advantage. - As Mandela was From public life, his Made the decision to spend What were quite scarce On this weaponry Rather than provide For the almost 6 Who were then living The primary reason Was that around 300 Were paid to senior politicians, And sadly to the The ANC, my own party. I was called in by a National executive council. He said to me, &quot;look &quot;you cannot win, because &quot;we used to fund And almost immediately A statement to the There's nothing to investigate. So it's all over. And I looked at him and I won't be able to If I stop this investigation. But at the same time, That this is the end The heads of government are Of their country's And this is the Defense contractors - Companies like BAE Effectively part But they're effectively - Corruption is not merely On top of the arms In a lot of cases, what drives Many of these deals would Provide opportunities - I would be We had the monopoly - As I was being Right at the last second Remind everyone that this - Can I just say, What he said about Is completely and I have never had a - Now I'm not suggesting Call between It was actually JP Morgan and a Did, in fact, prop up To the tune of about 2.5 I was a bit nervous that day. Then six months Blair suddenly For five million I was just trying to That there was And not just bad - I'd like to find Managed to access the court. - There must be a back door in, Because they'd all gone And there was a Underneath the courtroom And it was left unlocked. So I went through that Via the fire escape, By this time my heart You know, I was And I actually lost my So I went and sat I found a gentleman's I did actually ring my mother, And I said, listen, I'm Do you think I And my mum said, &quot;won't get another chance.&quot; And I thought, The man is a war criminal! - Augustine &quot;two beautiful daughters, &quot;anger at the way &quot;to see that they don't You conserve two Privilege and power, The more you make Who serve privilege and power, The more you diminish the And, I think that The rebel seeks to keep those - Peace, that's what we want. Freedom and peace. - So what if the guy - I'm gonna read you the Sourcing, of the Paragraph one, U.S. Column one, still Said one U.S. Justice Official, column U.S. Authorities say, Those officials said, American officials U.S. Officials U.S. Authorities said, We got a slight... No laughter please, we Several U.S. Officials said. Column four, U.S. Several American officials said. Officials say, say But U.S. Officials said, Official said, I'm not joking. There it is. That is the journalism And I sometimes And the new york American officials say. - I denounced the call The new york times issued me Which is what you get Under union rules, to stop I'd been the middle I'd been in Iraq, spent seven How can you come out of What's being done How can you come El Salvador, you know, I've been, and not be angry? I've seen the bodies Which I can't forget. 20 years, it, you Dostoevsky said, &quot;hell &quot;and that's what kills people.&quot; I fully get why people It's really hell. And, I don't use love Schmaltzy, you know, we I'm saying that the From those experiences A connection with With another human being. And if you can't do And I have friends And they're not here anymore. It's the, you know, To transcend time. - That looks like That we used to A mini-gun that fired One of the manifestations of Especially in the, sort of, Is that it destroys diplomacy. It destroys the will to The skill for diplomacy. - If you're a small 150 years, in essence, England, and even Exquisitely good at diplomacy. You've got to be Out of lots of And compromises and so forth. But if you're the You don't deal with You use your military - On may 3rd of 2003, the To Tehran, delivers a letter In that letter, the Offer negotiations to Program for full transparency. The proposal came in. I happened to see Was also given to a That I worked for at the time. He sent it over to the Karl Rove called back. He said that he found He wanted to know And he promised to put it - I would call Karl - I've seen a man of Put America on a war footing. And protect us against In a dangerous conflict that - No form of response was - I'm grateful to have - And the argument was, Come out of a negotiation Even more could be Removing the regime in Iran. In a way to sum up The principle in the That we simply do - And as Tony Zini said, former &quot;if you like to rock, That is a 10 to 14 year, Three to four trillion dollar Invasion, at the end Western Asia, will Than it does right now. It'll still be in turmoil, And 70 plus million Iranians Went in to see the The ideas that wolfowitz He and secretary Cheney Re-tooled them, Went to the White House. Briefed people like presidents. America needs a new strategy, So here this idea springs I went through the Pentagon, And one of the generals &quot;on my desk, it's... &quot;we're gonna go after seven I said is that a He said, &quot;yes sir! &quot;we're gonna start with &quot;gonna move to Syria, &quot;Somalia, Sudan, and Iran.&quot; - I think it's highly Has already made the decision There are already U.S. I wanna repeat that. There are already U.S. - The U.S. has long On trying to impact And much of what you've With regards to Iran, has - We've seen a report By Seymour Hersh, that That U.S. Marines were Mazareh, and Kurdish Have you ever heard - I've never heard of the Article, nor do I intend to. - Do you have any As the U.S. Ambassador? - I don't... U.S. Marines are actually - I said I had not And I didn't intend to read - If I gave you this article right now, Walked it over, - I don't think so 'cause I don't have the - We have teams inside Joint special operation Elite commando unit. It has been given executive In as many as 12 And kill, we're talking They're operating Countries outside of Of Afghanistan and Without telling the Or the American Sterile and they kill people. - We have to worry about If you will, when I spend In the intelligence world. Will have to be done quietly, Using sources and Available to our - The doctrine that has Is that the world And that the united To go into any country To conduct, what they Lethal operations, regardless of What international law says. What is president How is he going to deal with it? He embraced the very That a decade Talked about in hushed Not just as the implementors We should decapitate And engage in preemptive Became the policy itself. President Obama's Up something called It's like an algorithm Who should be We seek to capture. And one of the more, sort Of this, is that there On tuesdays, in the White House, That have been nicknamed Where they're going To put on, or take off the list. Maybe someone within In contact with someone They went to the same They keep ordering pizza As a taliban leader. And you decide, these To no good, and so, on We're gonna remove - So now we're getting Into this sort of Where it's justifiable homicide. Even though it's for Take place in the future. It's okay to kill Without a warrant, without And the execution - Where appropriate, we will - When... - When we... - We went... - He went on to... - We went on... - We're addressing that ma'am. - The voice of that woman is Obviously I do not agree - The president is not We need to see change, Would stop the authorization Which means killing Of suspicious behavior, Killing of many - You know I post the And asked them what And a lot of them Hurting your own You appeared rude to the And two, you just - Well I think killing With drones is rude. I think not apologizing Of innocent people who There are a lot of rude - I want to make sure Actually drones have not caused A huge number of For the most part Precise, precision - How do you expect Not to have When day in, and day out, That kill more innocent How do you explain that? - Well I do not believe Basis for your comment. - Lockheed Martin, boeing, Computer sciences corporation, All told eric, Are interested in this one - As we look out three, This Market remains a - It's the disease of The middle east. It's not islamic fundamentalism. It empower all of those who Politically, economically - Make no mistake, Is not a challenge It would threaten the The security of gulf nations. And the stability of It risks triggering In the region, and Non-proliferation treaty. - And how close is Well let me show you. I brought a diagram for you. Here's the diagram. This is a bomb. This is a fuse. Where should a A red line should - The threat from Iran What was interesting Including people from As long as there is Somewhere, somehow, that Us expand our Is not possible to On anything that can be - If you were Iran I mean, Israel has what, They're the ones who In the middle east anyway. They didn't sign a They built this India and Pakistan then went And Iran, which did Non-proliferation And realized they'd - The Obama administration Buster bombs which can penetrate 20 feet of solid The deal is the To members of the gulf Six nations that neighbor Iran. - War has become a commodity One is because you Buy the stuff you produce. - another With Saudi Arabia The biggest in history. This deal alone surpasses Arms sale already - Saudi Arabia Of recycling the arms trade. But war is also a There is a business Get it's ends established. This is George orwell's 1984. Two powers are always And guess who's making Of course the weapons dealers, - Well the ultimate Security state is Seeks a perpetual state of war, It will even go to That perpetual state of war. - I am always reminded of a book I read a long time ago, And that book has a &quot;I am an invisible man. &quot;not because I don't exist, but &quot;because you choose - Prince Bandar do you - This is ironic, in the Supporting the mujahideen From the soviets. Bin Laden came to To bring the To help us against the atheist, - When I last saw bin High in the mountains With an air raid shelter Rock of the mountain, That camp was built by the CIA. Later they tried to fire Of course they They built it. No wonder Bin Laden No wonder he did. - The American Saudi Arabia To give them arms, We are the ones who cleared We and you. - There must be something That we can't say Of the past, is operating today. - We have been pumping Without congressional authority, Without any Prince Bandar of Saudi Up some of this money In many areas of the To stop the shiite Call it the shiite crescent. - Thank you... - The arabic word is fitna, We're in a business In some places, - It's an odd situation because We are trying to Al-Qaeda and marlie, Arms training to them It really is a world gone mad, But oddly enough, you To realize how mad it is. When you actually are And you listen to Of Washington, it's Living in this kind That bears no relation Where I'm trying to report. - Today there are good The bad terrorists Who the United States The good terrorists are The joke here is we've I mean, if you consider They've learned nothing. Today if I say that the To groups that are in Al-Nusra, but also the ISIS. People will say you are But what I'm just In the moment of This grammar of Sounds insane. So what appears to have been When documents appear, - We must address the Especially sectarian Creates the conditions - In public they say, Meanwhile, this private In conflicts stirs the Characters that appear Which reinforces the And then makes things - Good morning everybody. Last night on my orders, Began strikes against - just ahead Defense firms, Lockheed And General Dynamics Stock price records. Their shareholders The unusually large number of - Every two years or so, Attacks the Gaza There is a trade Weapon companies show Which are becoming an And very significant Economy depend on those wars. They try to Market, &quot;that on actual human beings.&quot; By making that claim With weapon manufacturers The United States is the biggest Supplier of military This attack on Gaza For the united - Iran and ISIS are Crown of militant Islam. One calls itself the The other calls itself Both want to impose a First in the region. And then on the entire world. They just disagree Who will be the In this deadly game No place for America, - Today, after two The United States, together Has achieved Of animosity has not. A comprehensive That will prevent it from - This was a very And part of it is Entrenched and That we have built For the last three, But I'm happy that, Diplomacy pre-write, A great deal of And wisdom, and we And I hope this will - As this nuclear We're still dealing That the states of this And the void that You will see more violence It is important to understand That that's not a That is a result of the Towards de-militarization, Security, soon enough. - The Saudis and the Israelis They worry about Iran... - And that's not new, they've - But can - Well they can get - This is a region Per capita than any other Much thanks to the Israel and some of Going to be able to And more advanced weapons. If the nuclear threat Why should these other countries Get a chance to actually - Pakistan is a friend Pakistan has nuclear weapons. Are you in discussions Perhaps, getting a nuclear - But wolf we've known You don't really expect me - We're not going De-militarization in Israel's nuclear arsenal The significant Is that it is a game And it's gonna be a Political willingness of leaders To whether they will Or whether they will fall - Once you start a war, You open a kind You don't control The use of that Unforeseen consequences, And it propels you in directions You never thought you'd go. That's what war does. So, the images of war are And countered by Been disseminated In society, schools, government, Entertainment, the press. When you shatter the myth, And when you What techno-war, Which is really about People would be so repulsed. It would be very I see no one as happy as I am I feel like a darling let's dance