Terminal insomnia, also known as sleep aka &quot;I wake up at 3 a.m and I can't get back to common experience for many people. Now, first it causes you to die but because it happens at the Maybe your mind starts racing; maybe you worry you just can't fall back to sleep - at least not tired and cranky and you don't function as well this terminal insomnia is that the next night when and then you're just so tired, and then you start to sleep, and that makes things worse because you get mad, and that makes it even harder to aggravating. Dude, it is the worst. So if you're you haven't slept well for a long time, I feel you. I have struggled with insomnia off almost always up from 2-4 am, and so is one of And this early morning waking is also closely depression and as a symptom of depression. also a lot you can do about it. In this video I'm non-medication strategies you can use to get the end of the video I'll tell you about a great Hey everyone, don't forget, we're doing a each of these is worth about $150. And research at treating seasonal affective disorder and my Instagram page to learn more. Oh, by the way, I polls, video summaries, and the occasional dancing the video. Okay. Let's talk about six causes of it. But first, let's do a quick overview of the and nine hours of sleep, and your sleep rotates deep sleep, and REM sleep (when you dream). the night, and your lighter sleep and REM sleep little things will be more likely to wake you up early morning insomnia is biological factors. So So genetically some people are lighter sleepers, wake up early. I got both of these genes. I report verified it. Some people are night owls is called your chronotype. And while you can't can help you accept it. I think it's helpful to and let's imagine the village needed some people on watch at 9 pm, some at midnight, and I'd be the way would I fall asleep on watch. I am literally at 5am. It's a blessing and a curse. So I go the second factor of biology is age. As you You get tired earlier in the evening, and you Some things that help are staying active during bed can all help with terminal insomnia. Now, for women than for men, especially women nearing as you age. Even when you're pre-menopausal, you as you age. Hot flashes, periods, night sweats, your doctor if you want to try and manage that. as you age. You can use a prolonged-release melatonin really is more of a time regulator than clock to know when you should be asleep. Now, when I was really struggling with stress and sleep, some slow-release melatonin, and it worked for and I was doing a lot better. But there's a lot insomnia could also have been in part because of in part because of the change in seasons too. But with insomnia is conditioning. So conditioning brain associates with a routine or an environment, poorly by having bad habits. The antidote to this but basically you go to sleep at the same anything other than sleep and sex, don't watch Basically, your goal is to associate sleepy time Now, when it's hard to stay asleep, it's important wakey time. So if you're awake too early, don't do because that's going to send the message to your of night. Now, I've set some rules for myself on I can write on paper, I can do scripture study, before 5 am because that basically just trains time. So basically you want to train your brain are for sleeping too. Make your bedroom a calming all of these things can help condition your brain about behaviors that mess up your sleep. So as you includes social and physical activity. But a lot so it's important to try to get in more and then to do other active things throughout that research shows to be as effective or more work. The basic idea is to use good sleep but then here's the important part: you don't stay can't fall asleep, get out of bed and do something and then try 10 minutes back in bed. And you to fall asleep. Don't try too hard to go to sleep, know when sleepy time is. And this also prevents that the bed is the place where you lay there and Also, some medications like antidepressants, medicines like pseudofendrine, and also drugs interfere with the ability to sleep. Also, Okay, number four: stress. Now, I'm not going improve your sleep when you decrease your overall down all your worries at bedtime. You can check and gratitude are helpful too. And it can be I first started working from home, my sleep got work and home life. So take your work email off don't read the comments on your YouTube channel obscure concept of therapy with a random stranger so I set the rule for myself that I can't work your environment can impact your sleep. Your brain cools off, and when your core temperature drops. 68 degrees Fahrenheit or lower. You can also use a But also, taking a warm bath opens your core temperature to drop when you get out, so that about light. The light that enters your eyes tells Daylight freaking savings and working in that. So start by making your room a dim or a dark to in the evening. When I'm trying to get my kids my house, and that can help kind of remind It's also helpful to get a lot of early morning morning and see the sun. Another thing you can when you can't sleep. So if you can't sleep at 3 sleep oxygen can be an issue, so try not worried about it, you could get, you know, a sleep if your brain is running wild, you can try all out there called A Robot Shutting Down. And archaeology lecture. It's barely interesting, but I'll link those below. These are some channels myself bored enough to sleep. If you're your doctor. There are other health conditions hypothyroid, enlarged prostate, gastric reflux, and depression. So as you work to treat those, Okay. I hope this bag of tricks is helpful. And if you're angry about it, know that at least you're