Hey everyone, we have brand new product at the The holy grail of theoretical physics quantum gravity. But what if this of legend? What if gravity isn't weirdly messy? Or random? So says the postquantum We have two great theories in physics that There's general relativity-the theory of space the universe. And there's quantum mechanics-the These theories are each verified to astonishing at the most fundamental level. We've talked about resolve them by unifying quantum mechanics We usually think of this master theory as "quantum the assumption that the solution is to "quantize quantum mechanics. But after nearly 100 years we still don't know how to make gravity quantum. all along? What if gravity simply isn't quantum? up with classical theory of gravity which is mechanics? According to physicist Jonathan but some additional weirdness must be added to Before we get into the type of "randomness" let's discuss what happens when one naively know it to quantum theory. Our starting point is Here we have the Einstein field equations. We have geometry of spacetime, equalling a bunch of which describes the matter and energy the Einstein field equations are pluralized really a set of 10 partial differential to think of it as a single equation-it equates John Archibald Wheeler put it, space tells to curve. In other words, the right side while the left is the mass-energy that gets moved. The Einstein equation is a classical its parts are regular numbers and vectors-for like momenta, energy, and mass of objects describes a smoothly varying field with a The Einstein equation of general relativity of physics is described by quantum mechanics and is distinctly not classical-it does not describe the evolution of the wavefunction-the representing what might be observed when a quantum particles and quantum fields-are between discrete states rather than move or vary We tend to think that our classical, macroscopic quantum interactions-we'd say that classical of quantum interactions. In that spirit, many the Einstein equation are not fundamental, And that's understandable, because we do know that must be quantum fields and quantum particles that stress-energy tensor. Those quantum entities in superpositions of being in multiple states So the classical stress-energy tensor on the from some quantum analog. Standard approaches to have been to try to make the left side of find a quantum version of the Einstein tensor our long difficulties in making that work is only the right side of the Einstein equation and energy can be quantum, but the spacetime The challenge here is that both sides of type of mathematical object. So if the spacetime then we should probably understand how a defined by a classical stress-energy Take the Earth for example. Each of its uncertainty in its position. Each atom is once until measured. If you were to resolve randomly within a small range But each different possible location for that one that atom, and so a different spacetime geometry So what if you try to measure the position of Think of that as measuring the position positions all get defined randomly, then any flipping a coin a kajillion times-you tend of heads versus tails. In the same way, each Earth you'll get the same position-accounting same stress-energy tensor and so the look. This is why the stress-energy tensor for What about describing a classical gravitational two options: we can either write down all the locations of that object. The Einstein equation possible gravitational fields for each of distributions leading to a superposition of part of this is a quantum phenomenon, otherwise classical-for example, its smoothly Alternatively, we could say that somehow uniquely defined by the superposition though the effect of matter on the by every possible configuration Both of these approaches are problematic. Let's spacetime shaped by the quantum superposition this is historically the most successful approach relativity. It's called semiclassical gravity, radiation leaks out of black holes. The idea is called the expectation value of the stress-energy measurement value you would get if you were It better reflects the global wavefunction than In our example of the Earth, we saw that depend on the quantum uncertainty of the same as saying its classical the expectation value of the total quantum But consider a truly quantum object-say, a quantum a superposition in which there are two locations location of the quantum Earth it would resolve of its location prior to measurement would be that in-between location defines the singular In regular classical gravity, objects like apples gravity apples fall towards the expectation quantum Earth in superposition it falls halfway each version of Earth should also fall living in one of those superpositions the Earth would appear to be attracted towards Semiclassical gravity was always valid only in specific circumstances. out as a consistent unification of quantum OK, moving right along. The other option I is for there to be a different classical mass-energy distribution in our If our quantum Earth is in a superposition of classical spacetime geometry representing the of two spacetime geometries-one for each of the our falling apple wouldn't fall towards it would fall to one or the other This sounds more promising because now gravity that tracks the quantum source of that gravity. But there's This time we violate a sacred Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. The and Rohrlich, and in somewhat We run our good-ol' fashioned double slit experiment. A slits. The quantum properties of the matter allow passing through "both" slits at the same time. with themselves and produce an interference The shape of the interference pattern tells us which is equivalent to knowing it's momentum. principle this means one shouldn't be able we measure the interference pattern we can't But what if we try to cheat by placing a test particle passes through one or the other of the pull on the test mass compared towards mass should identify which slit was traversed allowing us to simultaneously This method of cheating Heisenberg only works localized and classical-i.e. the field really This has been taken as a solid argument even if it's allowed to be in superposition. So far so bad. We found that a singular, on the collective quantum state of for quantum superpositions of matter. But an is in superpostion along with the betray information about its contents in a But there is a way to have a singular, contents to still behave like quantum To add a type of randomness to gravity which he calls post-quantum gravity-we still field-but now it fluctuates randomly values of those fluctuations reflects the quantum Another way to think of it is like when two objects interact gravitationally, they direction of the gravitational field. It's that the uncertainty principle. But in post-quantum don't "learn" precise positions, but rather positions that depend on the position Let's see how this works with the example starts falling generally towards the Earth, but field you can't at first tell whether it's those fluctuations cause the falling sometimes drawn more to the left Let's see what the Earth is doing as the there's feedback between the noisiness of the generates that field. So the quantum matter of fluctuations slowly destroy the superposition-they wavefunction of the quantum Earth. This causes sense, with every interaction between the the apple conducts a very gentle The strength of these measurements increases as Earth and apple become correlated, and the Earth's to the left, that's where the Earth's center of This fundamental randomness also resolves the tried to use gravity to measure the path in the of the particles in the beam are noisy, and that through both paths, then we can no longer use that Perhaps the most radical aspect of away determinism. It requires that this noise And perhaps the most radical consequence of of quantum information. Conservation of be among the most fundamental underpinnings mechanics is inconsistent. At the same time, led to various challenges, like the black quantum information to be destroyed by random So, it seems Oppenheim's theory can describe evolves with superpositions of quantum matter, the interaction with a classical spacetime. final theory, and it may or may not be on the that there are still new directions to solving we'll eventually unify our two great theories. As long as we figure it out, I'm cool living Hey Everyone. Just a couple things before we first ever limited edition Desktop &amp; Gaming computer can feel like getting sucked into a design. It has an anti-slip design so that I mean Eve Online, you'll never miss a