If the Japanese Navy had one shot to crush it was now or never. Vice Admiral Takao Kurita's First Striking Force, including the colossal afloat. His fleet would sneak past Palawan, skirt and pounce on Leyte from the north. U.S. force. General Douglas MacArthur's and 420 American transports were ripe for the This perfect plan aimed to cripple the troops in the Philippines could stay linked including Singapore. The operation was codenamed But this grand scheme hit a snag: the American submarines stumbled upon the 1944, and immediately relayed its position wasn't content with just delivering the: (QUOTE) They craved action. Without Darter launched a daring attack on Kurita's would place her in one of the strangest, most On October 1, 1944, USS Darter was teamed USS Dace, to patrol the South China Sea invasion of Leyte. Allied Command knew Kurita's just 100 miles off Singapore, but Vice Admiral Takeo Kurita, commanding employed several strategies to evade detection. interception by Allied signals intelligence. the narrow and complex Philippine straits, using fleet also dispersed at times, making it harder Allied reconnaissance was hampered by poor surveillance. The Allies also misinterpreted threat of Kurita's force. These factors created The Allied command was deeply concerned potential threat to the Leyte landings. If a undetected, it could inflict untold damage. at midnight on October 23, the American crews had The radar operator initially mistook the contact Palawan Passage, close to the Philippine Islands. signal. Captain Bladen D. Claggett aboard the to intercept at maximum speed. burning through diesel fuel at an astonishing ship with submerged propulsion capabilities. (QUOTE) "Minutes later, the radar scope gave again we knew that this was no ordinary convoy." about half an hour. But Darter remained in contact were close enough for their bridge watches to reports of Japanese contact to Rear Admiral Ralph Pacific, an area encompassing the waters around Dutch East Indies. Admiral Christie transmitted of the U.S. Third Fleet off the Philippines. saw eleven big cruisers and six destroyers no picket destroyers advancing ahead sailing northeast at a speed of around 16 knots. kept reporting the enemy's position and speed. even provided the enemy's zigzag pattern. absent, even though the Japanese must have known The two submarines planned to shadow a 25-mile-wide channel marked by uncharted At first light, after establishing visual Targeting General Douglas MacArthur's landings force was making its way into the Palawan MacArthur's U.S. Sixth Army landed in Leyte and a vast American flotilla of 420 transports. the Allies' campaign to liberate the Philippines, To surprise the landing forces, Kurita planned to the Philippines' narrow straits and passages. while Admiral Shoji Nishimura's force would Surigao Strait. Vice Admiral Kiyohide Shima's would reinforce Nishimura from the north. these units would gather in Leyte Gulf at first that would end America's Pacific war. were unaware that their plan had already been and continuously updated Allied command on their huge relief for American naval intelligence. that Darter's radio messages were: (QUOTE) "the But the USS Darter had no General MacArthur knew an attack was coming the two American subs wouldn't waste any time if At 4:30 am on October 23, the submarine Darter port column, led by his flagship cruiser, Atago. the starboard column. By 5:00 am, both crews Inside the submarines, the target data computer chosen targets. Once provided, the configuring the torpedoes for the captains. seized the moment, launching six bow torpedoes yards. The torpedoes sliced through the water, Four of the six torpedoes detonated against through the hulls of both Dace and Darter. the periscope and witnessed the devastation. back to the first target to see the sight of a her could not be seen at once with the periscope smoke from No. 1 turret to the stern. The Atago, Kurita's flagship, was sinking fast. By echoed within Darter's pressure hull. Thirteen bow first, taking 360 officers and men to the were forced to jump overboard and swim to rescue battleship Yamato, took command of the task force By this time, McClintock had already unleashed the heavy cruiser Takao. At 5:34 am, two of the the rudder and two propellers and flooding three Darter's crew that Takao had been sunk. However, resilience, their triple hulls making them heavily damaged, managed to stay afloat. Escorted at Brunei at a mere five knots, surviving but Watching from his periscope on board Dace, and Atago sink. He famously remarked: (QUOTE) "It sinking, and the other is burning. The Japs After the celebration, Claggett turned his and ordered his crew to prepare for a set-up. locking onto the third, which appeared to be his actual target was the heavy cruiser Maya. ranges, bearings, and angles on the bow. the target was perfectly positioned, Claggett McClintock's earlier salvo aboard Darter. phase was over... Now it was time to start running." Dace began her dive, the submarine was rocked were erupting. Four of Dace's torpedoes had struck Dace emerged unscathed, but Maya was Admiral Ugaki witnessed the fiery demise of the through Dace was the sound of Maya's bulkheads In a few seconds, the fury of the Japanese Navy and their crews. Depth charges exploded all around sound man gave a running narrative of the chaos electric razor at work on a two-day beard." the water was repeatedly jolted to its core. doors flying open. A few destroyers conducted ostensibly to distract Darter and Dace while After about an hour and a half, the fleet and headed north. The duo of American ensuring the destroyers were gone before coming they were determined to finish off Takao. had spent so much time submerged during daylight, of Palawan, leaving them uncertain of their exact of a knot, sending her straight into the reef. on Bombay Shoal. One of the enemy destroyers in its direction. Fortunately, the warship sparing the stranded submarine and its crew. It The crew attempted to lighten the boat including food and furniture, and but to no avail. Commander Claggett needed He quickly became aware of how serious high that even her screws were out of the It was obvious that Darter would never be able essential equipment and setting confidential detonation charges to keep American destroyers a desperate dash, the Darter's crew began discovered by an enemy destroyer or aircraft. occurred, causing no observable damage to the couldn't leave it for the Japanese to claim. Dace but the sub was too high on the reef, and With no other options, Dace's crew manned painstakingly destroy the Darter one hole at exhausting their ammunition. They inflicted from obliterated when the radar operator shouted: immediately ordered the men to clear the deck. two feet across. Dace started to made a wild rush for the hatch. While some others toppled sideways, dived headfirst, or the officer of the deck closed the hatch. Though everyone made it down safely. Not a single life during the rescue attempt or the battle. the enemy plane concentrated its firepower on and flee the scene. After 11 days crowded safely at port. Not a soul was lost, and Meanwhile, thanks in part to Admiral Kurita sailed into a well-prepared