Hello and welcome back. I'm Joseph Hoffman. You probably noticed I've got the Frog family back. That's because we're learning how to add music sounds so much more interesting I think you're going to love it. So let play a chord what you're actually doing is playing that we're going to use finger one and So to practice that I'd like to use a a table and just touch your finger one fingers two three and four in the air, Now remember, your thumb kind of points should play more near its tip. Now we're with fingers three and four in the air, and then lift by letting the wrist float up a little bit like this. Touch and lift. Now can you practice that We're going to do it three times. Touch lift, touch lift, touch lift. Good, now let's try it with the other and lift, touch and lift, touch and lift. Good. If you need extra practice with your own. When you're ready we're going With your left hand let's put fingers position with the left-hand finger five two notes at the same time. A C and a G and fingers 2, 3, and 4 need to lift up their keys because if you play all at So you only want C and G to go down. Gently lift fingers two, three, and four and use a dropping motion to make the notes go lift, drop lift, drop lift. Now let's try together. We'll do and G. Ready, go. Drop, lift, drop, lift, drop Good, you're playing chords. Now let's try So again with finger one and five on C and G, slightly lift fingers two three and four comfortably and now we're going to drop Let's try it together three times. Ready, Drop, lift, drop, lift, drop, lift. Good. I kind of like to imagine there's a floats it up every time I do that. Drop, lift drop, lift. Good, now let's try both hands, and G, three drop lifts for chords. Ready, go. Drop, lift, drop, lift, drop, lift. Great, now we're ready to try Again, when you add chords this is going to make your song sounds so much more professional. Before we try playing it hands together let's give our right hand while you sing Frog in the Middle. I'd every time you sing the word frog and chord on can't catch me, one chord for each word. Why don't you watch me do it once and Frog in the middle Frog in the sea Frog in the middle Can't catch me So I wanted you to notice that every at that same moment I played a chord and then I held the chord down while I was singing the other words, frog in the frog in the middle, that cord continues again you play another chord. Ok this time why don't you try it with five and one, and we're going to play me. Ready, go. Frog in the middle Frog in the sea, Frog in the middle Can't catch me. Good job. Now let's try it in the right hand. Same We're going to drop every time we say Ready, go. Frog in the middle Frog in the sea, frog in the middle, can't catch me. Now last of all let's try both hands. Place play some chords. Ready, go. Frog in the middle, frog in the sea, frog in the middle, can't catch me. Now you're ready for the take chords in one hand while you play going to sound really cool. It might feel really hard at first but like, wow I am a pro. Now let me show you what that's going to look like on the piano. We're going to put the chords in the hand. Come and take a look. Are you ready for So now notice how the two hands work chords. Here we go. Isn't that awesome? Now in order to do this at first I want you to just try the very Hold the chord down, now remember the first thing you'll do is play a chord while your right hand finger five plays frog. So that's step one. Just see if you can Your left hand is doing a chord and your three times. Frog. Your turn. Good, now let's do it two more times. Frog Again, frog. Now the trick is make your left hand down while you continue in the right I'll show you. So remember, you do frog together and the middle, while your left hand just stays part. Your left hand is going to want to doing. but just tell it to chill out and let hand holds. My turn again. Now you try it. Good, now we're going to We play frog together and then the right My turn. Now you try. Good and then the ending will go like remember you'll play one chord with each Ready, go. Good job. All right you have made it now to the This is lesson 20, right at the end, chords in one hand while you play the common for this to be very tricky at I'm ending this unit with a real didn't go great the first time or even It may take you lots of tries at first. to just playing chords while you sing the melody, and the right comfortable with that then try adding until you get it. Practice means struggling sometimes and really working at something, and then once you get it you're gonna be like I can't believe this was ever hard! And Congratulations again on making it to the Thanks for watching. Can't wait to see next time. Frog in the middle Frog in the sea What on earth are you doing? UHHH!