(gentle jazzy music) - Hey everyone, today we're touring this beautiful Italian villa The design elements, textures, details, this house packs so many surprises. It's a wonderful blend of warm It's going to be a fun (gentle jazzy music) (gentle jazzy music continues) Alright everyone, let's start We have this gate opening Space looks phenomenal. Right in the center we have setting that Italian four olive trees, beautiful landscaping. And if you take that walkway it takes you to the side yard and we're going to see that space later. This walkway takes you to that goes down to the lower level where we have the eight-car garage. And in that garage we have some nice cars that we're also going to see later. Now, let's look at the house Smooth stucco, precast stone trim around the doors and windows. I love those stone balconies right there. We actually have two bedroom suites facing the front of the home and two small seating and this grand entry Two story ceilings, beautiful marble floors with inlays. And this entry sets a great If you follow this hallway, it actually takes you all which we'll see later. And I want to start our Beautiful herringbone hardwood French doors behind me, opening where we have a small seating area, Marble fireplace that And we have the desk here, More of the darker kind of a timeless office feel. Now, let's go to the other side. We have this opening, taking Again, gorgeous hardwood I really like this Chandelier above, four opening up to the outside. We have a small seating area here. Courtyard on my right hand this beautiful piano, wallpaper. This room looks very timeless and chic. I just love the feel of it. You feel very warm here. - [Mikey] Yeah, I love that office too. But really, really tasteful wallpaper and I feel like it's always - For sure, especially This house has more of a We don't have that wide rooms are a little bit more closed off. And yeah, this is the entry. That's the office and this is your formal living room. Now, I want to take this French door here, so we can check out this Natural stone floors, water I love these wall sconces, French doors opening up to the space. And they have these openings on each side for you to place some flowers, to just dress up this Now, let's go back into the house to check out the staircase Again, beautiful marble Then we have the staircase Curves beautifully, marble Three windows bring in natural And I really like how the smooth complimenting the Now Mikey, can you go back for a second? Can we show the second floor landing? Look how beautiful that It's such an elegant touch. - [Mikey] I feel like typically we see a lot of like Is that common? - I mean, you're right. Most of them generally have like 90 degree or like sharper corners versus It reminds me an iPhone, And it's such an elegant touch. In fact, I'm helping a and his architect and are incorporating a lot of and it just looks beautiful. Now, before we continue I want to talk about We have six bedrooms, 12,234 square feet of interior space on the market for $28,888,888. And I want to give big Hanna Karcho, for making More information will and we are excited to be in Newport Coast. Alright, follow me this way. Let's check out this space here, which is the formal dining room. Alright everyone, before I want to give big thanks to today's video sponsor, Athletic Greens. I've been using AG1 for the As you all know, we travel a lot. We're currently in Colorado. We were in LA a few days ago and tomorrow we're flying out to Florida. So, living a lifestyle that I live and traveling all the time, it's really hard for me to And having AG1 on-the-go AG1's formula includes whole food source nutrients, All you need is eight ounces You put it together, mix It's that easy and that's why I love it. That's why I feel like it AG1 is now offering you an amazing deal where they give you one plus five travel packs for free with your first purchase order. All you have to do is click the link in the description to check out AG1. And I cannot stress it It's become an important It tastes great, easy to make. I bring it with me everywhere I travel, and I highly recommend you try it as well. And big thanks to Athletic And now let's get back to our tour. (gentle music) Glass table in the center seating for eight, chandelier above and above that we have this On the walls, they have It's actually not a wallpaper and it just warms up the space, gives this more timeless feel. And then you have the hardwood floors, French doors opening up to that courtyard that we just toured. It's a really nice dining room. Now, back to the hallway, we have the elevator, powder bathroom, but we're going to check out the first bedroom on this level. King-size bed, TV on the two casement windows here. They also brought the to this room as well. Nice and cozy. Comes with a full bathroom walk-in shower, everything you need. And it's just a nice bedroom to have on the first floor of this property. Now, I want to actually so we can check out the powder bathroom. It's packed with details. Look at the vanity here All these edges, curved cabinetry. Then we have padded walls here. And Mikey, can we get a close up? You can actually see it better here. Like this is, it's a layer of cloth. - [Mikey] Was it like by the entry also, or - That was actually wallpaper, but the dining room is like this. And I love this border It's even around the It's so tasteful. Wall sconces, chandelier above. This is your separate water closet. Look at the wainscotting on the wall with mosaic marble This is the powder bathroom. Alright, let's continue, Now it gets more interesting here. Before we check out the kitchen I actually want to take everybody here. Look how elegant this bar is. You have a small fridge, and it's actually book-matching. You can see the seam here going Copper sink, upper It's a nice bar. And Mikey, why don't you come this way? Either you can come through we go straight into the kitchen. Without a doubt, my I love this space. Two massive island with This is panda marble, it's all book-matched This island is more for houses the sink and all dishwashers. Now coming here, with inset cabinets. Marble countertops, it's all book-matched with the backsplash, uppers And coming here, your And you have the fridge here. A lot of you are asking us to This one is subzero and this - [Mikey] I know a lot like before these houses are bought, if there is stuff in the fridge. Some of the houses we've and stuff in the fridge, - [Mikey] And we can Most of them just have water though. - Exactly. Remember the Park City episode. We've gone over like 500 asking us to talk more about hardware. Now, this is not the most but here's one thing that for them to assess. I probably picked the wrong drawer. - Full of glass? There you go. So, if you look at a kitchen cabinet, if you can see the tracks those are generally cheaper hardware. If they're hidden underneath the drawer, that's more high end. If it has a cleaner look, it's easier to maintain and from the tracks and it just You go low, if you open up cabinets, you're going to see You see something custom, it's going to be hidden - [Mikey] My bedside table, - Yeah. We got to work on that. Alright, now, second island. Mikey, can you come to this side? This is a unique touch on a We have four dishwashers here. One, - Exactly. Two. You know what's great about the full dishwasher, You can run them all four, which will serve as a two full dishwasher. It's just a different take. You have this beautiful black then you have a 16 inch Wolf And this vent with this darker tone contrasts so nicely You have your pot filler here. Just a beautiful kitchen. And color pallets in this house Like you have lighter And if you look around, all the French doors have black hardware. So there's this beautiful And if this wasn't enough, there's actually a full-size pantry here with a little built-in desk. Phenomenal space, beautiful kitchen. What do you think? - [Mikey] I really like it. I always like white and black together. Usually they don't have but I really like this kitchen. - Super nice. You even have And if this all wasn't enough, you have your informal dining Four French doors open up to the outside. Beautiful view of your This could be another seating but I think dining area is more You just have your morning coffee here, have your breakfast. I like this house. I'm now personally imagining which is a dangerous place to be. So, let's continue. We have French doors here which we're going to check out in a bit. Again, beautiful molding details. We have pocket doors here, because this is your main family room. Massive L-shaped couch, That's a custom screen. It's basically, I'm assuming a projector. Oh, they have a projector, short throw. - [Mikey] Oh, that's one - There you go, I was It's a very spacious room. You have some built-ins here, another bar. If the bar right next to Same panda marble, dual And I just realized that on the back wall here. It's a super nice bar. And this is your family room. Mikey, can we turn around one Fireplace here. This is super cool. Not to mention you have opening up to a covered And I wasn't going to go there, then I just realized this detail. It's super nice. So we have hardwood floors They brought the limestone from and seamlessly recessed in the tracks. Look how beautiful this looks. - [Mikey] I know you love these like transition details with floors. - I love them. I mean, it's just two different materials together and incorporating it seamlessly like this. It looks very nice. And yeah, this is your That's your backyard. But instead of going this way, actually, I want to take everybody to Let's open up the French door right here, so we can check out this It utilizes the side of We have a partially covered section here with these beautiful columns. Going through this opening, it's a beautiful covered But before I talk about the details here, let's take everybody this way. You have this water feature landscaping looks beautiful. House is on this side. And I really like how I know we have an amazing backyard, but it would be great have your morning coffee, take I, or when I am at my house I pace around our backyard, a lot. So, it's like my ritual. So, I feel like this would be my spot, even though we have an amazing backyard. - [Mikey] You know what That people should just like - Yes. I don't know how but I agree. You all know this, we but if you're enjoying our videos, make sure to give us a like, consider subscribing so you can keep watching And yeah, it's just a really nice space, connects to the courtyard right there. Landscaping, these midget trees. And then you have the This is another reason why because you have a TV, fireplace, these beam ceilings, chandelier. It's cozy, it's nice. You just sit down and disconnect yourself away from the home. And you even have built-in Alright, let's continue. Now, another patio space, You can put an outdoor dining area here, another seating area. You can do a lot with the space. And following this walkway, it takes us to this amazing backyard. Again, extremely private, And you may be wandering on the other side, because that's where I know from the first You can just kind of But from your second floor Massive yard, grass section in the center. That's your above ground pool, which I'm going to cover in a minute. Outdoor kitchen right there. And coming here, these that open up from the main hallway, straight to the backyard. Outdoor seating, informal dining area, and the house right behind me. Now, let's go check out that Dual elevation, bar seating, TV on the back with some open shelves. And down below we have a fridge, everything you need. And a house this size, weather this good, calls for an amazing space like this. Now, let's go this way so we can check out this amazing above ground pool. Now, I know Mikey is going What was it called again? - [Mikey] They called Kumquats. I was going to say, you any of the fruit around the backyard. - [Enes] Landscaping - [Mikey] Yeah, anyway, I have one in my hand here. Give it a shot. - You're not supposed to peel this? - [Mikey] I think you but there you go. - So sour! - Hmm. - [Mikey] Sometimes you get - I'm pretty sure you were - [Mikey] I'm pretty Did you eat that? - Well, too late now. It did taste good though. Alright, above ground pool, it's definitely a statement piece. Massive bar shelf on the left, infinity edge throughout. On the inside we have this And on the outside of the pool we have this dark mosaic tile, which contrasts nicely with the plaster. It's massive. I really like these above ground pools. I'm trying to remember the last few above ground pools that we saw. We saw one in Encino. - Japanese house. And then we saw another with the motorized skylight. - [Mikey] Yeah, that's right. We don't get to see them that often, but I usually associate these with like kind of smaller properties. So you don't accidentally fall - You maximize your backyard. - [Mikey] Why would they put - To me it's just a design choice. And I agree with what you're saying. Like it's so easy to come and you feel comfortable because you cannot really fall into it. Versus if this was a zero edge, you're right on the edge, you know? And it just looks really nice. It's more of a statement piece, you know, since it's above the ground, and you have a fire I mean this pool is amazing. And can we turn this way, Mikey, so we can check out the I love the proportions and We have those two balconies, which open up to the primary bedroom and the primary bathroom. But it's so well designed. We're down below, we And on the other side, that's beautiful stone railings, all these trim details You can see the overhangs timeless property. And with that, we're Now, I want to take everybody so we can check out the lower level. Off of the landing, on my right hand side, we have this really nice seating area. Come on in. Hardwood floors, pool table in the center. Cool light fixture above, some seating. Even have an egress window But a really nice spacious room. Gets better, right next we have the wine cellar. Mikey, wait a moment. Even this door is steelcase. It's an overkill, but it does look good. When you walk in you built-in cabinetry. This is also temperature controlled. And look at this arch ceiling as well. Really nice space. And yeah, this is your wine cellar. Next door is the movie theater. I just love the cozy energy here. Three tier seating. You have some couches Even the ceiling is curved that we've been seeing throughout, mood lighting above, padded walls. Super cozy space. They went little light but obviously in the future, if you want you can do the full built-in movie recliner seats with LED lights. - The whole thing? But right now it's a very cozy, comfortable and a Also, Mikey, we forgot to mention. We toured another property in this same neighborhood. - [Mikey] We haven't been - Do you remember the Italian architecture? - So it's the same developer. So we'll link that video if you want to check it out. But yeah, back to the landing. Now, there's a powder bathroom here, since we have the movie And going this way, storage closet. This door opens up to the two dryers, some cabinetry. This door opens up to which we're going to see in a bit. Follow me this way. Elevator landing on this level. And this is the last room It's currently staged as a gym, But this is a great room, since it has its own outdoor access, which means you can make You can have a guest quarters You can do a lot with the space. I personally really like this room. Now, Mikey follow me this way. This is the cobblestone driveway that comes to the lower level and opens up to the eight-car garage. Now this is an impressive space. It's nice to have a where you can park your cars and not just a few cars, We have this beautiful Bentley. Can we show the inside real quick? Have I told you this? I almost bought one of these. - I really like this car. Can you show the inside? The interior is so beautiful. This is also a beautiful spec. But on the other side we have I've never driven one of these. I've never started one of these. - [Mikey] Is this one - Correct. And the way this one looks, I have a feeling it might be modified, so. I got to say for the price point, this is a pretty impressive interior. Should I start it? - [Mikey] Start it. I (engine roars) - Okay, it's actually loud, I'd say. (engine roars loudly) - [Mikey] Sounds a lot like a Ferrari or a Lamborghini, I mean. And I think that's it and the lower level. Now let's go back to the staircase, so we can check out the second floor. (gentle music) Second floor landing, again, beautiful staircase Three windows bring in natural light. That's the entry right there. Beautiful radius details on these corners. And I love how they butt up this marble against the herringbone hardwood floors. This landing looks stunning. Now, this hallway takes that is front-facing, comes And I don't want to go into that bedroom because it is really similar which we're going to check out next. I like that they are And then you have the entry in between. Again we have hardwood floors here. King-size bed, small seating area, multiple casement windows, And this one, just like the other one, has a front-facing balcony. I know this is probably late to mention, but we are here in Newport is within the gated We've been in this neighborhood before, approximately 680 homes, and the entire community The streets, landscaping, so I wanted to mention that. Let's close the French doors. And over here we have the full bathroom, natural stone finishes, this beautiful walk-in shower with the mosaic banding in the center. Then we have the vanity Really nice bathroom, and Now, let's take everybody so we can check out the other wing. Off of the hallway we have And going to the other side, Mikey, can we show the inside? Look how nice this elevator is. They brought the same inlay floors here. There's a nice chandelier, Beautiful, yeah? - Just because it's a small space, it doesn't mean it cannot They fully decked it out. Alright, third bedroom suite I'm telling you, these Hardwood floors, molding details, light fixture above, casement windows. And of course this bedroom And look at the marble details here. Vanity, dressing table, marble mosaic back splash I love this lip design on top, but my favorite detail is down below. Look how beautiful that molding is. - That's all stone, yeah? And then they brought to your built-in tub. More mosaic tiles, just beautiful. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's really nice. - Now, that's it for I want to take everybody so we can check out the primary bedroom. Look at the entry point Above us is a stained Walls are nicely curved, beautiful herringbone hardwood floors. Then these double doors for the primary bedroom. Look how elegant this space is. Couch, two chairs, finishes, And then on the other side we have the TV. Below that, double-sided fireplace because we have the Wall panelings, cove lighting This beautiful light fixture. This is very, very elegant. - [Mikey] That light fixture - And because we have a dome ceiling here, it gives us extra ceiling place this massive light fixture It looks beautiful and gets has its own balcony And this is just a great addition because you can enjoy the Down below is Corona You can see your backyard You can see what's happening down below if people are in your pool, Again, this is a nice addition to the primary bedroom seating area. Now, going back in, I want to take everybody This arch opening takes us to the bedroom. Again, beautiful I said herringbone a lot on this video. Let's see if I can explain this. When a plank butts up to the that's herringbone. Now if two planks meet each that's when it's Chevron. - [Mikey] So, use your hands to explain. If the hands are pushed together... - So like this is Chevron, This is herringbone. - So there you go. Looks beautiful. I love the paneling details, Room feels extremely cozy and warm. Massive bed right in the This really interesting couch, I was trying to figure out. I guess you can lay this way. It's kind of like landlocked But very nice room, definitely spacious. You have a built-in fridge double-sided fireplace. And of course, we mentioned this earlier, primary bedroom has two balconies. This is the first one. Now I know this is a bit of a stretch, but I'm going to say it. Ever since we've been in Lake Como, something about waking as the first thing you do. - Yeah. Granted, I mean, these view are fantastic, don't get me wrong. Maybe Lake Como is a little bit better. Clearly, I'm still not over that trip. But, something about walking outside before you have your morning coffee, before you wash your face, I just love it. It's so green here. You're in this beautiful gated community. That's your second balcony right there. And that's the seating area Alright, let's go back in so we can check out the primary bathroom. It's absolutely gorgeous. Like, they went all out for this bathroom. Look at the floor transition And this is where we have the bathroom. Right in the center, we And below that, look at Mosaic marble, border another border to kind And it looks gorgeous. In fact, this bathroom is so spacious they even put a full-size couch here. You can just sit down after a shower. Just, you know, think about stuff. - [Mikey] I don't know why I always like when they put couches in bathrooms. It's almost like a weird flex, it's, &quot;I can put couch in my bathroom.&quot; - I wouldn't do this because I feel like after shower I will take like 45 minutes to go outside. And just beautiful finishes. Now, let's talk about the first vanity, which is on this side. Dressing table, you have Then this beautiful fabricated sink. Same stone runs as the Wall sconces, brass fixtures. Down below we have the open You have the drawers there. And then going this way, I'm going in there. Something about marble that I love, it's such a timeless and crafted well, it just I feel like this bathroom 30 years down the road. And you have fixtures on each side. Steam detail, again, inlays on the floors. Look at this mosaic pattern here. And they placed a beautiful Chef's kiss, it's gorgeous. - Now, second vanity is here. Again, dressing table on the other side. This bathroom has its own balcony too, you get the same amazing views. And before we wrap up, water closet, other side has a water closet too. Other side has its own walk-in closet and this one is the second one. Hardwood floors, cabinetry runs integrated LED lighting. Just a beautiful property. (gentle jazzy music) (gentle jazzy music continues) Alright, everyone, that's it from Newport Coast, California. I want to give big thanks Hanna Karcho for making And as always, you can about this listing in the Lastly, if you enjoyed subscribe to our channel and (gentle jazzy music continues)