The Pursuit of God Narrated by Mark Christensen and follow on in knowing the LORD; Hosea 6:3 Here is a masterly study of the inner life at least the outskirts of His ways, the abyss His unapproachable majesty - and it was written Who could imagine David writing the twenty-third mystic finding inspiration in a small study vast, flat checkerboard of endless streets. Where sound the cries of race and clan, On shadowed threshold dark with fears, But even as Dr. Frank Mason North of New York in this book: We hear Thy voice, O Son of Man. to brief visits and loving fellowship in his an omnivorous reader with a remarkable library who seemed to burn the midnight oil in pursuit and much prayer. It is not a collection of and the pew but with the soul thirsty for prayer, Show me thy glory, or Paul's exclamation, and of the knowledge of God! It is theology There is deep insight, sobriety of style, The author has few quotations but he knows Augustine, Nicholas of Cusa, Thomas Kempis, Wesley, and many more. The ten chapters are of each are for the closet, not the pulpit. Here is a book for every pastor, missionary, things of God and the riches of His grace. and humility. New York City Preface one cheering gleam appears: Within the fold be found increasing numbers of people whose after God Himself. They are eager for spiritual nor will they be content with correct &quot;interpretations&quot; will not be satisfied until they have drunk This is the only real harbinger of revival on the religious horizon. It may be the cloud here and there have been looking. It can result a recapture of that radiant wonder which should has all but fled the church in our day. religious leaders. Current evangelicalism and divided the sacrifice into parts, but rearrange the pieces with never a care that lofty Mount Carmel. But God be thanked that while they love the altar and delight in the to the continued absence of fire. They desire themselves the &quot;piercing sweetness&quot; of the did write and the psalmists did sing. set forth correctly the principles of the seem satisfied to teach the fundamentals of that there is in their ministry no manifest lives. They minister constantly to believers their teaching simply does not satisfy. pulpits is real. Milton's terrible sentence to his: &quot;The hungry sheep look up, and are scandal in the kingdom, to see God's children table. The truth of Wesley's words is established is, at best, a very slender part of religion. right opinions, yet right opinions may subsist opinion of God without either love or one of this.&quot; to other effective agencies for the dissemination of people who hold &quot;right opinions,&quot; probably church. Yet I wonder if there was ever a time ebb. To great sections of the church, the in its place has come that strange and foreign been borrowed from the stage and applied with now passes for worship among us. in the church of the living God. Without it, any strict meaning of that term. But exposition the hearers devoid of any true spiritual nourishment nourish the soul, but God Himself; and unless experience, they are not the better for having itself, but a means to bring men to an intimate may enter into Him, that they may delight sweetness of the very God Himself in the core This book is a modest attempt to aid God's is new except in the sense that it is a discovery most delightful and wonderful to me. Others holy mysteries than I have done, but if my may be those who can light their candle at A. W. Tozer June 16, 1948 Chapter 1 My soul has followed hard after thee; thy Christian theology teaches the doctrine of this: that before a man can seek God, God Before a sinful man can think a right thought done within him; it may be imperfect, but secret cause of all desiring and seeking and We pursue God because, and only because, He us to the pursuit. No one can come to me, me draws him, and it is by this very prevenient of credit for the act of coming. The impulse outworking of that impulse is our following Him we are already in His hand: Thy right In this divine &quot;upholding&quot; and human &quot;following&quot; for as von H gel teaches, God is always previous. previous working meets man's present response), be positive reciprocation if this secret drawing of the Divine. In the warm language of personal Psalm: As the hart pants after the water brooks, soul thirsts for God, for the living God; is deep calling unto deep, and the longing The doctrine of justification by faith - a sterile legalism and unavailing self-effort and been interpreted by many in such manner of God. The whole transaction of religious Faith may now be exercised without a jar to the Adamic ego. Christ may be &quot;received&quot; without of the receiver. The man is &quot;saved,&quot; but he he is specifically taught to be satisfied The modern scientist has lost God amid the real danger of losing God amid the wonders God is a spirit and, as such, can be cultivated created man in his own image, in the image is inherent in personality to be able to know one personality by another cannot be achieved loving mental interchange that the full possibilities All social interchange between human beings grading upward from the most casual brush communion of which the human spirit is capable. the response of created personalities to the eternal, that they might know thee the only sent. In the deep of His mighty nature God and suffers as any other person may. In making pattern of personality. He communicates with and our emotions. The continuous and unembarrassed and the spirit of the redeemed man is the This interchange between God and our spirit It is personal; that is, it does not come is known to the individual, and to the body And it is conscious; that is, it does not and work there unknown to the soul (as, for to do), but comes within the field of awareness other fact of experience. our sins) what God is in large degree. Being to know Him. In our sins we lack only the us to life in regeneration, our whole being joyous recognition. That is the heavenly birth God. It is, however, not an end but an inception, happy exploration of the infinite riches of but where we stop, no man has yet discovered, awful and mysterious depths of the triune Shoreless Ocean, who can sound Thee? Majesty divine! is a paradox of love, scorned indeed by the justified in happy experience by the children stated this holy paradox in a musical four-line every worshipping soul: And long to feast upon Thee still: And thirst our souls from Thee to fill. past and you will soon feel the heat of their prayed and wrestled and sought for Him day had found Him, the finding was all the sweeter that he knew God as an argument for knowing I have found grace in thy sight, show me now find grace in thy sight; and from there he thee, show me thy glory. God was frankly pleased called Moses into the mount, and there in before him. and his psalms ring with the cry of the seeker the mainspring of his life to be his burning the goal of his heart, and to this he sacrificed things as loss for the excellency of the knowledge the loss of all things and do count them but The hymns are sweet with the longing after he knows he has already found. &quot;His track a short generation ago, but that song is heard that we in this dark day have had our seeking made to center upon the initial act of &quot;accepting&quot; found in the Bible), and we are not expected of God to our spirit. We have been snared that if we have found Him, we need no more word in orthodoxy, and it is taken for granted otherwise; thus, the whole testimony of the subject is crisply set aside. The experiential saints is rejected in favor of a smug interpretation strange to a Saint Augustine, a Samuel Rutherford, In the midst of this great chill there are be content with shallow logic. They will admit with tears to hunt some lonely place and pray, to touch with their hearts, to see with their I want deliberately to encourage this mighty us to our present low estate. The stiff and a result of our lack of holy desire. Complacency desire must be present or there will be no waits to be wanted. Too bad that with many Every age has its own characteristics. Right The simplicity which is in Christ is rarely methods, organizations, and a world of nervous but can never satisfy the longing of the heart. hollowness of our worship, and that servile methods all testify that we, in this day, God scarcely at all. externals, we must first determine to find Now as always God reveals Himself to &quot;babes&quot; wise and the prudent. We must simplify our (and they will be found to be blessedly few). come with the guileless candor of childhood. respond. is little that we need other than God Himself. prevents us from finding God in full revelation. the &quot;and&quot; we shall soon find God, and in Him lives been secretly longing. we may narrow our lives or restrict the motions We can well afford to make God our all, to One. The Cloud of Unknowing, teaches us how to a meek stirring of love; and mean Himself, loath to think on aught but God Himself. So but only God Himself. This is the work of Again, he recommends that in prayer we practice of our theology. &quot;For it sufficeth enough, other cause than Himself.&quot; Yet underneath of New Testament truth, for he explains that and bought thee, and that graciously called If we would have religion &quot;lapped and folden hold thereupon, take thee but a little word of two, for even the shorter it is the better And such a word is this word GOD or this word When the Lord divided Canaan among the tribes God said to him simply, I am thy part and him richer than all his brethren, richer than in the world. And there is a spiritual principle of the Most High God. things in One. Many ordinary treasures may them, the enjoyment of them will be so tempered Or if he must see them go, one after one, having the Source of all things he has in Whatever he may lose, he has actually lost he has it purely, legitimately, and forever. has both satisfied me and made me thirsty of further grace. I am ashamed of my lack want thee; I long to be filled with longing; me thy glory, I pray thee, that so I may know love within me. Say to my soul, &quot;Rise up, give me grace to rise and follow thee up from long. In Jesus' name, amen. Chapter 2 Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs Before the Lord God made man upon the earth, of useful and pleasant things for his sustenance creation, these are called simply &quot;things.&quot; meant always to be external to the man and man was a shrine where none but God was worthy gifts which God had showered upon him. made those very gifts of God a potential source Our woes began when God was forced out of to enter. Within the human heart, &quot;things&quot; no peace within their hearts, for God is crowned stubborn and aggressive usurpers fight among This is not a mere metaphor, but an accurate is within the human heart a tough fibrous always to possess. It covets &quot;things&quot; with and &quot;mine&quot; look innocent enough in print, They express the real nature of the old Adamic could do. They are verbal symptoms of our grown down into things, and we dare not pull necessary to us, a development never originally God, and the whole course of nature is upset Our Lord referred to this tyranny of things come after me, let him deny himself and take desires to save his life shall lose it, and find it. better understanding, it would seem that there at our peril. Jesus called it &quot;life&quot; and &quot;self,&quot; characteristic is its possessiveness; the allow this enemy to live is in the end to up all for Christ's sake is to lose nothing eternal. And possibly also a hint is given this foe: It is by the Cross. Let him . . . take The way to deeper knowledge of God is through up of all things. The blessed ones who possess external thing and have rooted from their the &quot;poor in spirit.&quot; They have reached an of the common beggar in the streets of Jerusalem; it actually means. These blessed poor are They have broken the yoke of the oppressor; by surrendering. Though free from all sense Theirs is the kingdom of the heavens. It is not to be understood as mere Bible teaching inert mass of other doctrines. It is a marker against the steep sides of the mount of God. on in this holy pursuit. We must ascend a bring our progress to an end. principle of spiritual life finds its best story of Abraham and Isaac, we have a dramatic an excellent commentary on the first beatitude. indeed to have been his grandfather, and the of his heart. From that moment when he first his arms, he was an eager love slave of his the strength of this affection. And it is everything sacred to his father's heart: the of the years, and the long messianic dream. manhood, the heart of the old man was knit until at last the relationship bordered upon in to save both father and son from the consequences Take now thy son, said God to Abraham, thine to the land of Moriah and offer him there which I will tell thee of. The sacred writer on the slopes near Beersheba when the aged imagination may view in awe the bent form Possibly not again until a &quot;Greater than Abraham&quot; mortal pain visit a human soul. If only the That would have been easier a thousand times, been no great ordeal for one who had walked a last sweet pleasure to let his dimming vision would live to carry on the Abrahamic line made long before in Ur of the Chaldees. get the consent of his wounded and protesting the promise: In Isaac shall thy seed be called? not fail in the crucible. While the stars the tent where the sleeping Isaac lay, and the east, the old saint had made up his mind. him to do, and then trust God to raise him Hebrews, was the solution his aching heart early in the morning to carry out the plan. as to God's method, he had correctly sensed accords well with the New Testament Scripture, find. it up to the point where He knew there would a hand upon the boy. To the wondering patriarch I never intended that you should actually from the temple of your heart that I might the perversion that existed in your love. Take him and go back to your tent. Now I know not withheld thy son, thine only son, from Then heaven opened and a voice was heard saying for because thou hast done this thing and that in blessing I will bless thee and in stars of the heaven and as the sand which possess the gates of his enemies; and in thy blessed because thou hast hearkened unto my The old man of God lifted his head to respond strong and pure and grand, a man marked out and favorite of the Most High. Now he was a man who possessed nothing. He had concentrated God had taken it from him. God could have and worked inward to the center; He chose it over in one sharp act of separation. In and time. It hurt cruelly, but it was effective. Yet was not this poor man rich? Everything sheep, camels, herds, and goods of every sort. best of all he had his son Isaac safe by his nothing. There is the spiritual secret. There can be learned only in the school of renunciation. this, but the wise will understand. I think the words &quot;my&quot; and &quot;mine&quot; never again of possession which they connote was gone They had now become external to the man. His said, &quot;Abraham is rich,&quot; but the aged patriarch but he knew that he owned nothing, that his There can be no doubt that this possessive habits in the life. Because it is so natural, it is; but its outworkings are tragic. to the Lord out of fear for their safety; are loved relatives and friends. But we need but to save. Everything is safe which we commit not so committed. over to Him. They should be recognized for never be considered in any sense our own. special abilities than for blue eyes or strong what hast thou that thou didst not receive? himself even slightly will recognize the symptoms to find them in his own heart. If the longing will want to do something about the matter. First of all, he should put away all defense in his own eyes or before the Lord. Whoever defense, and he will have no other; but let will have for his defender no less than God under foot every slippery trick of his deceitful with the Lord. business. No careless or casual dealings will to be heard. Let him insist that God accept and Himself reign there in power. It may be and people by their names one by one. If he the time of his toil from years to minutes, brethren who coddle their feelings and insist Let us never forget that such a truth as this the facts of physical science. They must be We must in our hearts live through Abraham's the blessedness which follows them. The ancient old miser within us will not lie down and out of our heart like a plant from the soil; a tooth from the jaw. He must be expelled the moneychangers from the temple. And we piteous begging, and to recognize it as springing sins of the human heart. we must go this way of renunciation. And if sooner or later bring us to this test. Abraham's as such, yet if he had taken some course other the Old Testament would have been different. the loss to Abraham would have been tragic one by one to the testing place, and we may place there will be no dozen possible choices but our whole future will be conditioned by Father, I want to know thee, but my coward part with them without inward bleeding, and of the parting. I come trembling, but I do things which I have cherished so long and self, so that thou mayest enter and dwell the place of thy feet glorious. Then shall in it, for thyself wilt be the light of it, name, amen. Chapter 3 Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter (Hebrews 10:19) none is better known than Augustine's &quot;Thou are restless till they find rest in Thee.&quot; origin and interior history of the human race. explanation that satisfies the heart of a say. Should faulty education and perverse there is little that any Christian can do My appeal is addressed to those who have been of God; I speak to thirsty hearts whose longings them, and such as they need no reasoned proof. they need. &quot;Agreed upon by the Reverend Assembly of Divines has it, asks the ancient questions what and hardly matched in any uninspired work. &quot;Question: chief end is to glorify God, and to enjoy twenty elders who fall on their faces to worship Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory all things, and for thy will they have their God formed us for His pleasure, and so formed enjoy the sweet and mysterious mingling of Him and live with Him and draw our life from &quot;foul revolt&quot; of which Milton speaks when hosts. We have broken with God. We have ceased fear have fled as far as possible from His Yet who can flee from His presence when the Him? when the wisdom of Solomon testifies The omnipresence of the Lord is one thing, His manifest presence is another thing altogether, Adam, to hide among the trees of the garden, from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man. away from His presence, wrenched loose from and proper dwelling place, our first estate, cause of our unceasing restlessness. undo the tragic effects of that foul revolt, eternal relationship with Himself. This required that a full reconciliation be effected and conscious communion with God and to live again working within us, He moves us to return. hearts feel a yearning for the presence of and go to my Father.&quot; That is the first step, &quot;The journey of a thousand miles begins with The interior journey of the soul from the God is beautifully illustrated in the Old first entered the outer court where he offered washed himself in the laver that stood near Holy Place where no natural light could come, Jesus the Light of the World, threw its soft to tell of Jesus, the Bread of Life, and the Though the worshipper had enjoyed so much, of God. Another veil separated from the Holy the very God Himself in reverential and glorious only the high priest could enter there, and offered for his sins and the sins of the people. our Lord gave up the ghost on Calvary, and of the veil opened the way for every worshipper way straight into the divine presence. this Old Testament picture. Ransomed men need of Holies. God wills that we should push on there. This is to be known to us in conscious be held; it is a life to be enjoyed every This flame of His presence was the beating all the appointments of the tabernacle were had no meaning for Israel or for us. The greatest there; a presence was waiting within the veil. fact of Christianity. At the heart of the His redeemed children to push in to conscious which happens now to be the vogue knows this the Christian's privilege of present realization. presence of God positionally, and nothing presence actually. The fiery urge that drove missing. And the present generation of Christians contentment takes the place of burning zeal. and, for the most part, we bother ourselves experience. fiery manifestations? It is none other than Maker of heaven and earth, and of all things Christ, the only begotten Son of God; begotten Light of Light, Very God of Very God; begotten, Father,&quot; and &quot;the Holy Ghost, the Lord and and the Son, Who with the Father and the Son this Holy Trinity is One God, for &quot;we worship neither confounding the Persons, nor dividing the Father, another of the Son, and another Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, co-eternal.&quot; So in part run the ancient creeds, Behind the veil is God, that God after whom felt, &quot;if haply they might find Him.&quot; He has but more perfectly in the incarnation; now to the humble of soul and the pure in heart. of God, and the church is famishing for want of our religious ills would be to enter His suddenly aware that we are in God and that pitiful narrowness and cause our hearts to from our lives as the bugs and fungi were bush. to swim in is this God and Father of our Lord He predates time and is wholly independent To it, He pays no tribute, and from it, He means that He has never changed and can never He would need to go from better to worse or for being perfect He cannot become more perfect, be less than God. He is omniscient, which act all matter, all spirit, all relationships, He is, and none of the limiting and qualifying Love and mercy and righteousness are His, or figures will avail to express it. Only it. In fire He appeared at the burning bush; the long wilderness journey. The fire that the Holy Place was called the shekinah, the And when the old had given place to the new, rested upon each disciple. of God, and he had a measure of truth there; it is spiritual. God is spirit and only the deep spirit of a man, the fire must glow, great ones of the kingdom have been those know who they have been and gladly pay tribute We have but to pause for a moment and their and aloes and cassia out of the ivory palaces. after God as the roe pants after the water Himself to his seeking heart set the good rivaling that of the seraphim before the throne. of the Godhead equally, yet he seemed to feel for Him alone. Of God the Father he sings: Oh what a joy it is! Earth has no higher bliss. What rapture will it be, And gaze and gaze on Thee! that it threatened to consume him; it burned flowed from his lips like molten gold. In in the church of God, there is Jesus. He is to us. . . . There is nothing good, nothing He is not to His servants. No one need be Jesus for his own property and possession. joy of heaven, and it is His joy to enter many things; but we can never exaggerate our abundance of the love of Jesus to us. All yet we should never come to an end of the will not be long enough to learn all He is, then, that matters not; for we shall be always addressing our Lord directly he says to Him: My transports to control; Within my very soul. Holy Spirit. Not only in his theology did with the Father and the Son, but he also celebrated He literally pressed his forehead to the ground person of the Godhead. In one of his great devotion thus: My heart is fit to break For us poor sinners' sake. I might show by pointed example what I have wonderful, so utterly and completely delightful meet and overflow the deepest demands of our nature is. Such worship as Faber knew (and man can number) can never come from a mere &quot;fit to break&quot; with love for the Godhead are looked with opened eye upon the majesty of a quality about them not known to or understood spiritual authority. They had been in the saw there. They were prophets, not scribes, and the prophet tells us what he has seen. the scribe who has read and the prophet who the sea. We are today overrun with orthodox The hard voice of the scribe sounds over evangelicalism, of the saint who has penetrated the veil and that is God. And yet, thus to penetrate, to holy presence, is a privilege open to every With the veil removed by the rending of Jesus' us from entering, why do we tarry without? outside the Holy of Holies and never enter say, Let me see thy countenance, let me hear countenance is beautiful. We sense that the near, and the years pass and we grow old and What hinders us? &quot;cold,&quot; will not explain all the facts. There heart, something that may be behind that coldness it? What could it be but the presence of a away as the first veil was, but which remains the face of God from us. It is the veil of within us, uncrucified, and unrepudiated. which we have never truly acknowledged, of for these reasons we have never brought to this opaque veil, nor is it hard to identify. we shall see it there, sewn and patched and an enemy to our lives and an effective block This veil is not a beautiful thing and it to talk, but I am addressing the thirsting I know they will not turn back even though hills. The urge of God within them will assure the facts however unpleasant, and endure the bold to name the threads out of which this It is woven of the fine threads of the self-life, They are not something we do; they are something and their power. self-pity, self-confidence, self-sufficiency, others like them. They dwell too deep within to come to our attention until the light of of these sins - egotism, exhibitionism, self-promotion even in circles of impeccable orthodoxy. They people, to become identified with the gospel. say that they appear these days to be a requisite visible. Promoting self under the guise of to excite little notice. in the doctrines of man's depravity and the of Christ alone would deliver us from the out that way. Self can live unrebuked at the die and not be in the least affected by what Reformers and preach eloquently the creed its efforts. To tell all the truth, it seems at home in a Bible conference than in a tavern. it an excellent condition under which to thrive Self is the opaque veil that hides the face spiritual experience, never by mere instruction. of our system. There must be a work of God invite the cross to do its deadly work within for judgment. We must prepare ourselves for that through which our Savior passed when Let us remember: When we talk of the rending and the thought of it is poetical, almost pleasant about it. In human experience, that is composed of the conscious, quivering stuff touch it is to touch us where we feel pain. and make us bleed. To say otherwise is to at all. It is never fun to die. To rip through made can never be anything but deeply painful. it is what the cross would do to every man Let us beware of tinkering with our inner God must do everything for us. Our part is repudiate the self-life, and then reckon it lazy &quot;acceptance&quot; from the real work of God. dare not rest content with a neat doctrine Saul and spare the best of the sheep and the Insist that the work be done in very truth it is deadly, but it is effective. It does There comes a moment when its work is finished is resurrection glory and power, and the pain taken away and we have entered in actual, God. devious and dark are the ways of man. Show we may rise again to newness of life. Rend as thou didst rend the veil of the temple. We would dwell with thee in daily experience to the glory when we enter thy heaven to dwell Chapter 4 O taste and see. (Psalm 34:8) twenty-five years ago called attention to faith in God. To most people God is an inference, which they consider adequate; but He remains must be,&quot; they say, &quot;therefore, we believe they know of Him only by hearsay. They have themselves, but have heard about Him from back of their minds, along with the various To many others God is but an ideal, another He is law, or life, or the creative impulse These notions about God are many and varied, common: They do not know God in personal experience. Him has not entered their minds. While admitting knowable in the sense that we know things Christians, to be sure, go further than this, to believe in the personality of God, and who art in heaven. Now personality and fatherhood of personal acquaintance. This is admitted, nevertheless, God is no more real than He trying to love an ideal and be loyal to a Over against all this cloudy vagueness stands be known in personal experience. A loving the trees of the garden and breathing fragrance present, speaking, pleading, loving, working, His people have the receptivity necessary The Bible assumes as a self-evident fact that of immediacy as they know any other person experience. The same terms are used to express the knowledge of physical things. O taste smell of myrrh and aloes and cassia, out of Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall of countless such passages from the Word of is the fact that the whole import of the Scripture What can all this mean except that we have can know God as certainly as we know material apprehend the physical world by exercising we possess spiritual faculties by means of if we will obey the Spirit's urge and begin That a saving work must first be done in the faculties of the unregenerate man lie asleep dead; that is the stroke which has fallen life again by the operation of the Holy Spirit benefits which come to us through Christ's But for the very ransomed children of God that habitual conscious communion with God is our chronic unbelief. Faith enables our defective, the result will be inward insensibility is the condition of vast numbers of Christians statement. We have but to converse with the church we find open to acquire all the proof A spiritual kingdom lies all about us, enclosing of our inner selves, waiting for us to recognize to His presence. This eternal world will come upon its reality. definition; or if definition is impossible, I use them. They are &quot;reality&quot; and &quot;reckon.&quot; has existence apart from any idea any mind were no mind anywhere to entertain a thought It does not depend upon the observer for its I am aware that there are those who love to They are the idealists who spin endless proofs They are the relativists who like to show from which we can measure anything. They smile peaks and settle us to their own satisfaction &quot;absolutist.&quot; The Christian is not put out can smile right back at them, for he knows that is God. But he knows also that the absolute while there is nothing fixed or real in the applied to God), for every purpose of human And every man does act thus except the mentally with reality, but they are consistent; they ideas of things. They are honest, and it is The idealists and relativists are not mentally their lives according to the very notions and by counting upon the very fixed points earn a lot more respect for their notions this they are careful not to do. Their ideas touches them, they repudiate their theories The Christian is too sincere to play with in the mere spinning of gossamer webs for are geared into his life. By them he lives for all time to come. From the insincere man The sincere plain man knows that the world consciousness, and he knows that he did not him when he came, and he knows that when he be here still to bid him good-bye as he departs. a thousand men who doubt. He stands upon the and he knows that they are real. He sees the the hot lightning play out of the dark thundercloud. of human joy and pain. These he knows are and has no fear that it will prove illusory the firm ground will be under him, the blue him as when he closed his eyes the night before. With his five senses he engages this real existence he apprehends by the faculties with created him and placed him in such a world Now, by our definition God is also real. He nothing else is. All other reality is contingent the author of that lower and dependent reality including ourselves. God has objective existence which we may have concerning Him. The worshipping Him here when it wakes from its moral slumber Another word that must be cleared up is the or imagine. Imagination is not faith. The stand in sharp opposition to each other. Imagination seeks to attach reality to them. Faith creates is already there. reckon upon them with as much assurance as Spiritual things are there (or rather we should our trust. thought habits. We habitually think of the of any other. We do not deny the existence it is real in the accepted meaning of the The world of sense intrudes upon our attention It is clamorous, insistent, and self-demonstrating. assaulting our five senses, demanding to be clouded the lenses of our hearts that we cannot around us. The world of sense triumphs. The and the temporal, of the eternal. That is tragic race. in the invisible. The object of the Christian's Our uncorrected thinking, influenced by the ubiquity of visible things, tends to draw but actually, no such contrast exists. The and the imaginary, between the spiritual and eternal; but between the spiritual and the If we would rise into that region of light Scriptures of truth, we must break the evil our interest from the seen to the unseen. comes to God must believe that he is and that seek him. This is basic in the life of faith. Ye believe in God, said our Lord Jesus Christ, can be no second. to be otherworldly. This I say knowing well the sons of this world and applied to the Every man must choose his world. If we who and knowing what we are about, deliberately interest, I see no reason why anyone should own; if we gain, we rob no one by so doing. this world's disdain and the subject of the chosen goal and the object of our holiest But we must avoid the common fault of pushing future, but present. It parallels our familiar two worlds are open. But ye are come, says plainly present), unto Mount Sion and unto and to an innumerable company of angels, to the firstborn, who are registered in the heavens of just men made perfect, and to Jesus, the of sprinkling, that speaks better things than with the mount that might be touched and the that might be heard. May we not safely conclude apprehended by the senses, so the realities And this not by any trick of the imagination, with which to see and ears with which to hear. the life-giving touch of Christ alive now hearing. of the spirit will take shape before our inner bring an inward revelation of the Godhead enabling us to see God even as is promised will seize upon us and we shall begin to taste our life and our all. There will be seen the up every man that comes into the world. More more sure, God will become to us the great of our lives. me, that I may lay hold on eternal things. spiritual perception; enable me to taste thee real to me than any earthly thing has ever Chapter 5 Where shall I go from thy spirit? or where In all Christian teaching, certain basic truths than asserted, but necessary to all truth to the finished painting. Such a truth is God dwells in His creation and is everywhere is boldly taught by prophet and apostle and that is, it appears in the books, but for Christian's heart so as to become a part of away from its full implications, and, if they little meaning. I would guess the reason for but the doctrine of the divine presence is Pantheism's error is too palpable to deceive things. Nature and God are one, so that whoever is of course to degrade the glory of the incorruptible divine, banish all divinity from the world The truth is that while God dwells in His impassable. However closely He may be identified eternally be other than He, and He is and He is transcendent above all His works even What now does the divine immanence mean in that God is here. Wherever we are, God is where He is not. Ten million intelligences by incomprehensible distances can each one is nearer to God than any other point. It it is from any other place. No one is in mere God than any other person is. Christian. It remains for us to think on them within us. matter,&quot; for matter is not self-causing. It cause. Not &quot;In the beginning law,&quot; for law follows. That course had to be planned, and mind,&quot; for mind also is a created thing and beginning God, the uncaused cause of matter, Adam sinned and, in his panic, frantically from the presence of God. David also must from God's presence, for he wrote: Where shall from thy presence? Then he proceeded through the glory of the divine immanence. If I ascend my bed in Sheol, behold, thou art there. If the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall hold me. And he knew that God's being &quot;Presence&quot; had been with him even before he life. Solomon exclaimed, But will God indeed heavens of heavens cannot contain thee; how assured the Athenians that God is not far move and have our being. if we cannot go where He is not, cannot even has not that presence become the one universally Jacob, in the waste howling wilderness, gave of God and cried out in wonder, Surely the Jacob had never been for one small division presence. But he knew it not. That was his God is here. What a difference it would make The presence and the manifestation of the one without the other. God is here when we when and as we are aware of His presence. Spirit of God, for His work it is to show with Him in loving obedience, God will manifest be the difference between a nominal Christian His face. He seeks to reveal Himself. To each one he He is as well. He did not have to be persuaded in a cloud and was with him there proclaiming proclamation of His nature, but He also revealed Moses' face shone with the supernatural light. we begin to believe that God's promise of promised much, but He promised no more than Our pursuit of God is successful just because to us. The revelation of God to any man is to pay a brief and momentous visit to the it all. The approach of God to the soul or in spatial terms at all. There is no idea It is not a matter of miles but of experience. is to use language in a sense always understood A man may say, &quot;I feel that my son is coming son has lived by his father's side since he more than a day or so in his entire life. he is speaking of experience. He means that and with deeper understanding, that the barriers disappearing, that father and son are becoming So when we sing, &quot;Draw me nearer, nearer blessed of place, but of the nearness of relationship. that we pray, for a more perfect consciousness across the spaces to an absent God. He is most secret thoughts. others do not? Why does God manifest His presence along in the half-light of imperfect Christian the same for all. He has no favorites within of His children He will do for all of His but with us. lives and testimonies are widely known. Let of post-biblical times. You will be struck not alike. Sometimes the unlikenesses were different, for example, was Moses from Isaiah; each other were John and Paul, Saint Francis differences are as wide as human life itself: temperament, habit, and personal qualities. a high road of spiritual living far above Their differences must have been incidental In some vital quality they must have been I venture to suggest that the one vital quality Something in them was open to heaven, something anything like a profound analysis, I shall and that they went on to cultivate it until They differed from the average person in that something about it. They acquired the lifelong disobedient to the heavenly vision. As David from thee, Seek ye my face. Thy face, O LORD, As with everything good in human life, behind God is here, and is felt even by those who theologically. The pious Michelangelo confessed My unassisted heart is barren clay, Of good and pious works Thou art the seed, Unless Thou show to us Thine own true way These words will repay study as the deep and Important as it is that we recognize God working preoccupation with the thought. It is a sure us responsible to understand the mysteries sovereignty. The best and safest way to deal God and in deepest reverence say, O LORD, and mysterious profoundness of God's omniscience. it will rarely make saints. it is a compound, a blending of several elements bent toward, a sympathetic response to, a that it can be present in degrees, that we upon the individual. It may be increased by a sovereign and irresistible force which comes of God, indeed, but one which must be recognized to realize the purpose for which it was given. serious breakdown in modern evangelicalism. to the saints of old, has now no place in too common. We now demand glamour and fast-flowing reared among push buttons and automatic machines of reaching their goals. We have been trying with God. We read our chapter, have our short for our deep inward bankruptcy by attending thrilling story told by a religious adventurer The tragic results of this spirit are all philosophies, the preponderance of the element of men, trust in religious externalities, methods, the mistaking of dynamic personality as these are the symptoms of an evil disease, For this great sickness that is upon us no is wholly free from blame. We have all contributed, of affairs. We have been too blind to see, to desire anything better than the poor, average put it differently, we have accepted one another's one another's experiences the model for our downward. Now we have reached a low place all, we have made the Word of Truth conform as the very pasture of the blessed. than a little courage to wrench ourselves to biblical ways. But it can be done. Every had to do it. History has recorded several Francis, Martin Luther, and George Fox. Unfortunately, horizon at present. Whether or not another of Christ is a question upon which Christians great importance to us now. a worldwide scale I do not claim to know; who seeks His face I believe I do know and earnest, let him begin to exercise himself powers of spiritual receptivity by trust and exceed anything he may have hoped in his leaner Any man who by repentance and a sincere return in which he has been held, and will go to will be delighted with what he finds there. is a fact. God is here. The whole universe or foreign God, but the familiar Father of thousands of years enfolded the sinful race attention, to reveal Himself to us, to communicate know Him if we will but respond to His overtures. Him in increasing degree as our receptivity practice. with visible things. The world has been too it not. I have been blind to thy presence. around me. In Jesus' name, amen. Chapter 6 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word 1:1) truths of Christianity, coming upon this text, that it is the nature of God to speak, to would be right. A word is a medium by which of the term to the eternal Son leads us to the Godhead, that God is forever seeking to Bible supports the idea. God is speaking. by His nature continuously articulate. He One of the great realities with which we have The briefest and only satisfying cosmogony why of natural law is the living voice of of God which brought all worlds into being it is not a written or printed word at all, into the structure of all things. This word with living potentiality. The voice of God it is the only force in nature, for all energy is being spoken. because it is written, it is confined and The voice of God, however, is alive and free I have spoken unto you, they are Spirit and words. God's word in the Bible can have power in the universe. It is the present voice which it would lie locked in slumber within the We take a low and primitive view of things into physical contact with things, shaping The Bible teaches otherwise: By the word of host of them by the breath of his mouth. . . . For it came into being. And Through faith we understand Again, we must remember that God is referring voice. His world-filling voice is meant, that centuries, that voice which has not been silent still throughout the far reaches of the universe. the beginning He spoke to nothing, and it order; darkness heard it and became light. phrases, as cause and effect, occur throughout accounts for the so. The so is the said put That God is here and that He is speaking - these truths; without them there could be no revelation it by messenger to be read at a distance by His spoken words, constantly speaking His across the years. God breathed on clay and become clay. &quot;Return ye children of men&quot; was decreed the death of every man, and no added of mankind across the face of the earth from word was enough. that deep utterance in the gospel of John: every man that comes into this world. Shift truth is still there: The Word of God affects In the hearts of all men the light shines, them. Something like this would of necessity John says that it is so. Even those individuals been preached to with sufficient clarity to which show the work of the law written in witness, accusing and also excusing their things of him, his eternal power and divinity, the world and by the things that are made This universal voice of God was by the ancient to be everywhere sounding and searching throughout sons of men. The eighth chapter of the book give her voice to intelligence? The writer standing in the top of the high places, by sounds her voice from every quarter so that I call; and my voice is to the sons of men. to give ear to her words. It is a spiritual a response which she has always sought and is that our eternal welfare depends upon our to hear. it has often troubled men even when they did Could it be that this voice distilling like the undiscovered cause of the troubled conscience by millions since the dawn of recorded history? voice is a fact. How men have reacted to it When God spoke out of heaven to our Lord, by natural causes: They said, it thundered. to natural law is at the very root of modern there is a mysterious something, too wonderful, believing man does not claim to understand. The man of earth kneels also, but not to worship. cause and the how of things. Just now we happen habits are those of the scientist, not those than to adore. &quot;It thundered,&quot; we exclaim, sounds and searches. The order and life of are mostly too busy or too stubborn to give Every one of us has had experiences which sense of loneliness, or a feeling of wonder Or we have had a fleeting visitation of light giving us in a quick flash an assurance that are divine. What we saw there, or felt, or we had been taught in the schools and at wide We were forced to suspend our acquired doubts back and we saw and heard for ourselves. Explain been fair to the facts until we allow at least arise from the presence of God in the world mankind. Let us not dismiss such a hypothesis It is my own belief (and here I shall not good and beautiful thing which man has produced and sin-blocked response to the creative voice who dreamed their high dreams of virtue, the and immortality, the poets and artists who beauty - how can we explain them? It is not then is genius? Could it be that a genius and striving like one possessed to achieve the great man may have missed God in his labors, God, does not destroy the idea I am advancing. is necessary to saving faith and peace with if the vague stirrings toward immortality communion with God. To me, this is a plausible But you can be a good Christian and not accept The voice of God is a friendly voice. No one made up his mind to resist it. The blood of but all creation as well. Having made peace are the things in the earth or the things heaven. The heavens as well as the earth are in the bush. The perfect blood of atonement Whoever will listen will hear the speaking men take kindly to an exhortation to listen, religion. We are at the opposite end of the monstrous heresy that noise, size, activity, may take heart. To a people caught in the Be still, and know that I am God, and still our strength and safety lie not in noise but It is important that we get still to wait preferably with our Bible outspread before and begin to hear Him speak to us in our hearts. will be something like this: First a sound a voice, more intelligible, but still far Spirit begins to illuminate the Scriptures, best a voice, now becomes an intelligible of a dear friend. Then will come life and and rest in and embrace Jesus Christ as Savior The Bible will never be a living book to us in His universe. To jump from a dead, impersonal most people. They may admit that they should may try to think of it as such, but they find on the page are actually for them. A man may yet in his heart not feel and know that they He tries to think of God as mute everywhere I believe that much of our religious unbelief feeling for the Scriptures of truth. A silent when the book was finished, He lapsed back book as the record of what God said when He notions like that in our heads, how can we has never been silent. It is the nature of Trinity is called the Word. The Bible is the It is the infallible declaration of His mind I think a new world will arise out of the with the idea that it is not only a book which is now speaking. The prophets habitually said, to understand that God's speaking is in the properly to indicate that at a certain time of God once spoken continues to be spoken, or a world once created continues to exist. for children die and worlds burn out, but If you would follow on to know the Lord, come speak to you. Do not come with the notion at your convenience. It is more than a thing; living God. and my ears are weary with the thousand raucous me the spirit of the boy Samuel when he said Let me hear thee speaking in my heart. Let its tones may be familiar when the sounds be the music of thy speaking voice. In Jesus' Chapter 7 With our eyes fixed on Jesus, the author and Let us think of our intelligent, plain man time to the reading of the Scriptures. He knowledge of what it contains. He is wholly and nothing to defend. his mind begins to observe certain truths principles behind the record of God's dealings men as they were inspired by the Holy Spirit. truths as they become clear to him and make will be the tenets of his biblical creed. except to enlarge and strengthen them. Our teaches. teaches will be the doctrine of faith. The gives to faith will be too plain for him to is of utmost importance. Without faith, it me anything, take me anywhere in the kingdom approach to God, no forgiveness, no deliverance, at all. chapter of Hebrews, the eloquent expression faith will not seem strange to him. He will in his Roman and Galatian epistles. Later, will understand the amazing power in the teachings place of faith in the Christian religion. is an indispensable must in our pursuit of be deeply concerned over whether or not we being what they are, it is inevitable that after the nature of faith. The question, What Do I have faith? and would demand an answer Almost all who preach or write on the subject concerning it. They tell us that it is believing that it is reckoning the Bible to be true book or sermon is usually taken up with stories as a result of their faith. These answers temporal nature such as health, money, physical the teacher is of a philosophic turn of mind, a tumult of metaphysics or snow us under with paring the slender hair of faith thinner and at last. When he is finished, we get up disappointed Surely there must be something better than In the Scriptures there is practically no brief fifteen-word definition in Hebrews 11:1, there, faith is defined functionally, not of what faith is in operation, not what it faith and shows what it results in, rather that far and attempt to go no further. We means: Faith . . . is the gift of God, and by the word of God. This much is clear, and, exercise faith than know the definition thereof.&quot; their equivalent occur in this chapter, I faith is in operation as exercised by a believing and think about faith as it may be experienced will be practical, not theoretical. faith is seen in action. Israel became discouraged serpents among them and they bit the people; sought the Lord for them and He heard and serpents. He commanded Moses to make a serpent all the people, and it shall be that anyone Moses obeyed, and it came to pass that when of brass, and lived (Numbers 21:4-9). history is interpreted for us by no less an He is explaining to His hearers how they may Then to make it clear, He refers to this incident up the serpent in the wilderness, even so believes in him should not perish but have Our plain man in reading this would make an &quot;look&quot; and &quot;believe&quot; were synonymous terms. identical with &quot;believing&quot; on the New Testament are the same thing. And he would understand eyes, believing is done with the heart. I gaze of a soul upon a saving God. he had read before, and their meaning would and were lightened, and their faces were not mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens. hand of their masters and as the eyes of a eyes wait upon the LORD our God, until he Here the man seeking mercy looks straight away from Him until mercy is granted. And up to heaven, he blessed and broke and gave Indeed, Jesus taught that He wrought His works Father. His power lay in His continuous look In full accord with the few texts we have Word. It is summed up for us in the Hebrew race with our eyes fixed on Jesus, the author learn that faith is not a once-done act, but God. attention to Jesus. It is lifting the mind that beholding for the rest of our lives. easier as we look steadily at His wondrous may hinder, but once the heart is committed Him, the attention will return again and rest to its window. one great volitional act which establishes Jesus. God takes this intention for our choice thousand distractions which beset us in this direction of our hearts toward Jesus, and with the knowledge that a habit of soul is sort of spiritual reflex requiring no more Faith is the least self-regarding of the virtues. of its own existence. Like the eye which sees faith is occupied with the object upon which all. While we are looking at God, we do not who has struggled to purify himself and has real relief when he stops tinkering with his he looks at Christ, the very things he has done within him. It will be God working in Faith is not in itself a meritorious act; directed. Faith is a redirecting of our sight, and getting God into focus. Sin has twisted Unbelief has put self where God should be, who said, I will exalt my throne above the and the whole life falls into line. no apology to make. To those who would seek into hell, God says, The word is near thee, induces us to lift up our eyes unto the Lord When we lift our inward eyes to gaze upon back at us, for it is written that the eyes the earth. The sweet language of experience soul looking out meet the eyes of God looking &quot;When all my endeavour is turned toward Thee me; when I look unto Thee alone with all my my mind, because Thou dost enfold me with toward Thee alone because Thou, who art Love's what, Lord, is my life, save that embrace lovingly enfold me?&quot; So wrote Nicholas of I should like to say more about this old man among Christian believers, and among current feel that we could gain much from a little and the school of Christian thought which accepted and approved by the evangelical leaders same train of thought, a kind of &quot;party line&quot; A half-century of this in America has made with slavish devotion and our most strenuous thing that everyone around us is saying - and little safe variation on the approved theme Nicholas was a true follower of Christ, a his devotion to the person of Jesus. His theology about Jesus might properly be expected to is beautiful in itself, and, if I mistake that which is current among us today. Life that blessed regard wherewith Thou never ceasest of my soul. With Thee, to behold is to give love of Thee; 'tis to inflame me to love of inflaming, and by feeding to kindle my yearning, of gladness, and by drinking to infuse in make it increase and endure.&quot; God, and if this gaze is but the raising of of God, then it follows that it is one of be like God to make the most vital thing easy for the weakest and poorest of us. all this. The simplicity of it, for instance, be done without special equipment or religious one life-and-death essential can never be can break down or get lost, water can leak minister can be delayed, or the church burn are subject to accident or mechanical failure; successfully by any man standing up or kneeling miles from any church. any time. No season is superior to another never made salvation dependent upon new moons to Christ on Easter Sunday than he is, say, 4. As long as Christ sits on the mediatorial are days of salvation. work of believing God. Lift your heart and in a sanctuary, though it be a bed or a factory if your mind is set to love and obey Him. you speak for special people such as monks calling more time to devote to quiet meditation? spend alone.&quot; I am happy to say that the life regardless of calling. It is, in fact, happily and is beyond the reach of none. and, without giving much thought to what is this habit of inwardly gazing upon God. They God. Even when they are compelled to withdraw in earthly affairs, there is within them a attention but be released for a moment from God again. This has been the testimony of it thus, I have a feeling that I am quoting, possibly know. the ordinary means of grace have no value. be practiced by every Christian. Long periods direct it. Church attendance will enlarge Service and work and activity - all are good But the foundation of all these things, giving of beholding God. A new set of eyes (so to to be looking at God while our outward eyes Someone may fear that we are magnifying private of the New Testament is being displaced by that one hundred pianos all tuned to the same They are of one accord by being tuned, not which each one must individually bow. So one one looking away to Christ, are in heart nearer were they to become &quot;unity- conscious&quot; and closer fellowship. Social religion is perfected becomes stronger as its members become healthier. that compose it begin to seek a better and All of the foregoing presupposes true repentance It is hardly necessary to mention this, for will have read this far. becomes fixed within us, we shall be ushered keeping with the promises of God and the mood be our dwelling place even while our feet men. We will have found life's summum bonum of all delights that can be desired; not only angels, but nought better can exist in mode every rational desire, than which a greater O Lord, I have heard a good word inviting My heart longs to respond, but sin has clouded to cleanse me in thine own precious blood, unveiled eyes gaze upon thee all the days prepared to behold thee in full splendor in in thy saints and admired in all them that FOOTNOTES: Dutton &amp; Co., Inc., New York, 1928. This and of the publishers. The Vision of God Restoring the Creator-Creature Relation let thy glory be above all the earth. (Psalm It is a truism to say that order in nature harmony each thing must be in its proper position it is not otherwise. the cause of all our human miseries is a radical to God and to each other. For whatever else a sharp change in man's relationship to his attitude, and by so doing destroyed the proper to him, his true happiness lay. Essentially between man and his Creator, a bringing back A satisfactory spiritual life will begin with God and the sinner, not a judicial change affecting the sinner's whole nature. The atonement possible, and the working of the Holy Spirit of the prodigal son perfectly illustrates of trouble upon himself by forsaking the position In reality, his restoration was nothing more which had existed from his birth and had been This story overlooks the legal aspects of the experiential aspects of salvation. somewhere. There must be somewhere a fixed where the law of relativity does not enter Such a center is God. When God would make better words than &quot;I AM.&quot; When He speaks in speak of Him we say, &quot;He is&quot;; when we speak else measures from that fixed point. I AM As the sailor locates his position on the moral bearings by looking at God. We must when we stand in a right position relative as we stand in any other position. stems from our unwillingness to take God as insist upon trying to modify Him and to bring against the rigor of God's inexorable sentence indulgence of its carnal ways. It is no use. God as He is and learning to love Him for we shall find it a source of unspeakable joy rapturous moments we know will be those we In those holy moments, the very thought of So let us begin with God. Behind all, above order, above in rank and station, exalted One, He gave being to all things, and all art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and by thy will they have their being and Every man, woman, and child belongs to God and what He is, and we being who and what us is one of full lordship on His part and honor that it is in our power to give Him. less. of bringing our total personality into conformity I do not here refer to the act of justification exalting of God to His proper station over to the place of worshipful submission, which The moment we make up our minds that we are God over all, we step out of the world's parade. to the ways of the world, and increasingly shall acquire a new viewpoint; a new and different power will begin to surprise us by its upsurgings Our break with the world will be the direct For the world of fallen men does not honor it is true, and pay some token respect to He is really honored among them. Let the average who is above, and his true position will be between God and money, between God and men, self, God and human love, and God will take will be exalted above. However the man may day after day throughout his life. spiritual experience. It is a little key to It is central in the life of a godly man. and lips join to say continually, Be thou be solved at once. His Christian life ceases and becomes the very essence of simplicity. course, and on that course he will stay as off course for a moment by some adverse wind, bent of the soul. The hidden motions of the stars in their courses&quot; fight for him. He everything else must follow along. of human dignity by this voluntary sellout degrade himself as a man; rather, he finds in the image of his Creator. His deep disgrace usurpation of the place of God. His honor throne. In exalting God over all, he finds Anyone who might feel reluctant to surrender Jesus' words: Whosoever commits sin is the to someone, either to God or to sin. The sinner overlooking the fact that he is the weak slave who surrenders to Christ exchanges a cruel whose yoke is easy and whose burden is light. find it strange to take again our God as our hearts cannot but feel at home when they enter I hope it is clear that there is logic behind His by every right in earth or heaven. When the whole course of our lives gets out of our hearts make the great decision: God shall Those that honor me I will honor, said God law of the kingdom stands today unchanged The whole Bible and every page of history one that serves me, will my Father honour, the new and revealing the essential unity Sometimes the best way to see a thing is to placed in the priesthood with the stipulation This they fail to do, and God sends Samuel this law of reciprocal honor has been all has come for judgment to fall. Hophni and battle; the wife of Phinehas dies in childbirth; God is captured by the Philistines; and the neck. Thus, stark and utter tragedy followed Now set over against this almost any Bible in his earthly walk. See how God winked at upon His servants grace and blessing untold. or whom you will; honor followed honor as his heart to exalt God above all; God accepted Not perfection, but holy intention made the In our Lord Jesus Christ this law was seen He humbled Himself and gladly gave all glory own honor, but the honor of God who sent Him. my glory is nothing; it is my Father that departed from this law that they could not expense. I honour my Father, said Jesus to Another saying of Jesus, and a most disturbing can ye believe, who take glory one from another, God? If I understand this correctly, Christ desire for honor among men made belief impossible. Could it be that those &quot;intellectual difficulties&quot; are but smoke screens to conceal the real desire for honor from man that made men into God? Is this the secret behind religious self-righteousness whole course of the life is upset by failure instead of God, and the curse follows. in mind that God also has desire, and His particularly toward those sons of men who Him over all. Such as these are precious to them, God finds a theater where He can display Jesus. With them God can walk unhindered, is. I may convince the mind, before God can win is one not easy to take. The mind may approve to put it into effect. While the imagination behind and the man may never guess how divided decision before the heart can know any real not rest until He gets us all. No part of Let us pray over this in detail, throwing we say. No one who prays thus in sincerity God will unveil His glory before His servant's at the disposal of such a one, for He knows hands. Nothing of earth's treasures shall seem dear Be thou exalted over my friendships. I am I must stand deserted and alone in the midst Though it mean the loss of bodily comforts keep my vow made this day before thee. Be to please thee even if as a result I must as a dream. Rise, O Lord, into thy proper my likes and dislikes, above my family, my that thou mayest increase; let me sink that as thou didst ride into Jerusalem mounted foal of an ass, and let me hear the children Chapter 9 Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit A fairly accurate description of the human with it by taking the Beatitudes, turning human race.&quot; For the exact opposite of the which distinguish human life and conduct. the virtues of which Jesus spoke in the opening of poverty of spirit, we find the rankest pleasure seekers. Instead of meekness, we righteousness, we hear men saying, I am rich nothing. Instead of mercy, we find cruelty. imaginings. Instead of peacemakers, we find rejoicing in mistreatment, we find them fighting Of this kind of moral stuff civilized society it; we breathe it with every breath and drink refine these things slightly but leave them has been created to justify this kind of life to be wondered at, seeing that these are the it is for all of us. All our heartaches and out of our sins. Pride, arrogance, resentfulness, sources of more human pain than all the diseases Into a world like this, the sound of Jesus' from above. It is well that He spoke, for it is good that we listen. His words are the Jesus never uttered opinions. He never guessed; Solomon's were, the sum of sound wisdom or out of the fullness of His Godhead, and His one who could say &quot;blessed&quot; with complete from the world above to confer blessedness by deeds mightier than any performed on this to listen. &quot;meek&quot; in a brief, crisp sentence, and not it. In the same book of Matthew He tells us Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden in contrast to each other: a burden and a to those first hearers, but one which is borne political oppression or poverty or hard work. the rich as well as the poor, for it is something us. a crushing thing. The word Jesus used means of exhaustion. Rest is simply release from is what comes to us when we cease to do. His Let us examine our burden. It is altogether the mind and reaches the body only from within. of self-love is a heavy one indeed. Think not arisen from someone speaking slightingly a little god to which you must be loyal, there affront to your idol. How then can you hope to protect itself from every slight, to shield and enemy, will never let the mind have rest. the burden will become intolerable. Yet the challenging every word spoken against them, each fancied slight, tossing sleepless if Such a burden as this is not necessary to is His method. The meek man cares not at all decided that the esteem of the world is not a kindly sense of humor and learns to say, placed someone else before you? They have after all? And now you feel hurt because the you have been saying about yourself? Only nothing, a mere worm of the dust. Where is and cease to care what men think.&quot; with a sense of his own inferiority. Rather, and as strong as Samson; but he has stopped God's estimate of his own life. He knows he him to be, but paradoxically, he knows at of more importance than angels. In himself, He knows well that the world will never see He rests perfectly content to allow God to wait for the day when everything will get into its own. Then the righteous shall shine willing to wait for that day. of soul rest. As he walks on in meekness, old struggle to defend himself is over. He Then also he will get deliverance from the but the common human desire to put the best inward poverty. For sin has played many evil into us a false sense of shame. There is hardly or she is without doctoring up the impression. within their hearts. The man of culture is upon a man more cultured than himself. The than he. The rich man sweats under the fear sometime be made to look cheap by comparison &quot;society&quot; runs by a motivation not higher level are little better. real, and little by little they kill the victims the psychology created by years of this kind as a dream, as aloof as a star. To all the become as little children. For little children from what they have without relating it to get older and sin begins to stir within their are unable to enjoy what they have if someone early age does the galling burden come down them until Jesus sets them free. I am sure that most people live in secret by chance, an enemy or friend will be allowed are never relaxed. Bright people are tense into saying something common or stupid. Traveled Marco Polo who is able to describe some remote This unnatural condition is part of our sad by our whole way of life. Advertising is largely are offered in this or that field of human desire to shine at a party. Books are sold, continually upon this desire to appear what will drop away the moment we kneel at Jesus' Then we will not care what people think of are will be everything; what we appear will for us. Apart from sin, we have nothing of shine makes us want to appear other than we The heart of the world is breaking under this from our burden apart from the meekness of but so strong is this vice that if we push else. To men and women everywhere, Jesus says, The rest He offers is the rest of meekness, ourselves for what we are and cease to pretend. needed grace will come as we learn that we strong Son of God Himself. He calls it my at the other. urge to compete with another for place or artless as a little child. Deliver me from of myself. Help me to forget myself and find mayest answer this prayer I humble myself self-forgetfulness that through it I may find Chapter 10 Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever (1 Corinthians 10:31) peace which the Christian encounters is the areas, the sacred and the secular. As these other and to be morally and spiritually incompatible, of living to be always crossing back and forth tend to break up so that we live a divided Our trouble springs from the fact that we the spiritual and the natural. As children to the limitations of the flesh and the weaknesses to live among men requires of us years of things of this world. In sharp contrast to another and higher kind of life; we are children intimate fellowship with Christ. departments. We come unconsciously to recognize with a feeling of satisfaction and a firm are the sacred acts and they are usually thought church attendance, and such other acts as by the fact that they have no direct relation except as faith shows us another world, a heavens. ones. They include all of the ordinary activities daughters of Adam: eating, sleeping, working, our dull and tedious duties here on earth. misgivings, often apologizing to God for what The upshot of this is that we are uneasy most with a feeling of deep frustration, telling day coming when we shall shed this earthly of this world. Most Christians are caught in its trap. They the claims of the two worlds. They try to they find no peace in either. Their strength joy taken from them. unnecessary. We have gotten ourselves on the is not real. It is a creature of misunderstanding. in the New Testament. Without doubt, a more-perfect us from it. example, and He knew no divided life. In the strain from babyhood to His death on the cross. and made no distinction between act and act. His brief summary of His own life as it related poised and restful. What pressure and suffering world's sin bearer; they were never the result Paul's exhortation to do everything for the It is an integral part of the sacred revelation Truth. It opens before us the possibility to the glory of God. Lest we should be too specifically eating and drinking. This humble If these lowly animal acts can be so performed to conceive of one that cannot. so prominently in the works of certain early in the Word of God. Common modesty is found never prudery or a false sense of shame. The that in His incarnation our Lord took upon made to steer around the downright implications among men and never once performed a non-sacred forever the evil notion that there is about to the Deity. God created our bodies, and where it belongs. He is not ashamed of the Perversion, misuse, and abuse of our human Bodily acts done in sin and contrary to nature introduces moral evil, we have no longer our we have instead an abused and twisted thing Let us, however, assume that perversion and believer in whose life the twin wonders of He is now living according to the will of Word. Of such a one it may be said that every as prayer or baptism or the Lord's Supper. to one dead level; it is rather to lift every whole life into a sacrament. an inward grace, then we need not hesitate consecration of our total selves to God, we consecration. We need no more be ashamed of us through life - than Jesus was of the humble Lord has need of him may well apply to our may carry about the Lord of glory as the little multitudes to cry, Hosanna in the highest. would escape from the toils of the sacred-secular and condition the complexion of our thoughts. actually and determinedly. By meditation upon in our prayers, by recalling it to our minds of its wondrous meaning will begin to take down before a restful unity of life. The knowledge all and rejected nothing, will unify our inner This is not quite all. Long-held habits do and a great deal of reverent prayer to escape For instance, it may be difficult for the that his daily labors can be performed as Christ. The old antithesis will crop up in his peace of mind. Nor will that old Serpent be there in the cab or at the desk or in the the better part of his day to the things of duties only a trifling portion of his time. create confusion and bring discouragement We can meet this successfully only by the all our acts to God and believe that He accepts keep insisting that every act of every hour Keep reminding God in our times of private then supplement those times by a thousand living. Let us practice the fine art of making believe that God is in all our simple deeds Accompanying the error which we have been as applied to places. It is little short of and still believe in the inherent sacredness This error is so widespread that one feels acted as a kind of dye to color the thinking as well, so that it is all but impossible New Testament teaching to the contrary, it and accepted as a part of the Christian message, Quakers, so far as my knowledge goes, have courage to expose it. hundred years, Israel had dwelt in Egypt, hand of Moses they were brought out at last very idea of holiness had been lost to them. He localized Himself in the cloud and fire, He dwelt in fiery manifestation in the Holy taught Israel the difference between holy holy garments. There were washings, sacrifices, learned that God is holy. It was this that things or places, but the holiness of Jehovah Then came the great day when Christ appeared. that it was said to the ancients . . . but was over. When Christ died on the cross, the The Holy of Holies was opened to everyone remembered: The hour cometh when neither in the Father. . . . But the hour comes, and the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Spirit and those that worship him must worship Shortly after, Paul took up the cry of liberty all places sacred, and every act acceptable a half-light necessary to the education of of spiritual worship. the possession of the church until it was Then the natural legality of the fallen hearts The church came to observe again days and and marked out as holy in a special sense. another day or place or person. The &quot;sacraments&quot; with the triumph of Romanism they were fixed In all charity, and with no desire to reflect I would point out that the Roman Catholic heresy carried to its logical conclusion. it introduces between religion and life. Its footnotes and multitudinous explanations, In practical living, the division is a fact. and mystics have labored to free us. Today, toward that bondage again. It is said that building, will sometimes by a strange obstinacy into the building again to perish in the flame. Fundamentalism in our day is moving back toward and times is becoming more and more prominent Friday are words heard more and more frequently not know when we are well off. be misunderstood, I would throw into relief for which I have been arguing, namely, the against its positive meanings, I should like It does not mean, for instance, that everything else we do or may do. One act of a good man's Paul's sewing of tents was not equal to his were accepted of God and both were true acts to lead a soul to Christ than to plant a garden, an act as the winning of a soul. as useful as every other man. Gifts differ to be compared with a Martin Luther or a John and to the world; but the service of the less-gifted and God accepts both with equal pleasure. task as being inferior to that of his minister. he is called, and his work will be as sacred a man does that determines whether his work The motive is everything. Let a man sanctify do no common act. All he does is good and such a man, living itself will be sacramental life will be a priestly ministration. As he hear the voice of the seraphim saying, Holy, whole earth is full of his glory. be altogether thine; I would exalt thee above possessing anything outside of thee. I want presence and to hear thy speaking voice. I I want to live so fully in the Spirit that to thee and every act of my life may be an of thy great servant of old, &quot;I beseech thee with the unspeakable gift of thy grace, that thee.&quot; And all this I confidently believe Christ thy Son. In Jesus' name, amen. Hailing from a tiny farming community in western was as a teenager in Akron, Ohio. While on he overheard a street preacher say &quot;If you God, saying, 'Lord, be merciful to me a sinner.'&quot; and heeded the preacher's advice. he wrote, &quot;It will cost something to walk men of time rush about, confusing motion with and the true Christian is not much interested Among the more than 40 books that he authored, The Pursuit of God and The Knowledge of the possibility and necessity for a deeper relationship Living a simple and non-materialistic lifestyle, owned a car, preferring bus and train travel. author, Tozer signed away much of his royalties