Not Again! realize that this voltage converter here that with EMC aka electromagnetic compatibility. interfere with the functionality of other devices audio amp through its wired connection. WiFi jammer I accidentally created in a was mainly done through radiation. super important and that is why there are you want to sell your circuit boards. guidelines were truly checked when For example I got this super useful battery so useful for your portable projects, that I even And now it is finally time to put them all to with EMC guidelines and if they are not; can we Let's get started! by Wurth Elektronik who not only make some but are also experts when it comes to EMC Now first off, when it comes to conductive aka bit of specialized equipment to do that at home. is now way you can do that at home because you radiated waves along with a very unique probe. center in Munich which apparently not only comes unique labs, tons of specialized equipment There they got one room for and one for radiated EMC measurements. Lorandt who is an EMC specialist that even got his And with that being said, we started off with had the lab for one day, we only focused design and my smallest DIY design. pushed the boards to the limit by drawing the measurements again with the load removed. is flowing, we are dealing with the maximum we deal with the maximum electric fields. conductive EMC test, let me clarify that by a battery and not the power grid, For example if you got one big battery pack EMC interferences created by the buck/boost components and that can cause lots of problems. finishing the measurements by using a LISN on the power grids impedance across which we can measure This spectrum tells us what current harmonics get simply not allowed to exceed a certain max value. no matter if they boosted the input voltage up But if we want to go into detail; then followed by the Asia Board and probably due to the fact that By the way these current harmonics come with a the switching frequency of my converter IC and EMC problems, that we sadly can not get rid of But so far everything looked great and which were a bit more spectacular to look at. turns in the middle of testing to catch This antenna is by the way exactly which of course also gets hooked up with Yeah everything here has a purpose, even of the circuits that basically prevents But anyway; next we did all radiation measurements all boards passed the EMC test. max output current, things started to look So does that mean that none of Well, there is actually a loophole with such passes EMC tests in its normal powered Because if you want to draw more current this is your problem as the consumer and you are And with that mystery solved; let's ask which of course performed could be improved in a way I of course asked Lorandt this question and he components meaning you add more or better The reason is that this current basically broadcast its interferences, so it makes If you want to try that out yourself then feel which is a calculation tool where you can In my case though we only got problems at the input and output filters to deal with those. because we got a buck/boost converter here which boost mode makes trouble at the output side. is a piece of cake for my EMC expert, but only had 30 minutes left in the EMC lab. this filter setup here which uses a common mode that only lets low frequencies pass. the trick and the board passed But let's say both solutions Well, the next step would be For example you want your traces as short as ripples, so that they don't act like big antennas. PCB instead of a 2 layer design. and lower layer to do the routing and use layer This way you got one big GND copper through vias to reduce antenna designs. a try and came up with my own 4 layer But the sad news is that it simply time to fix it before visiting the EMC lab. least you are now familiar with the 3 big And I know that this topic is not super some links in the video description And with that being said I hope you having fun in an EMC lab for a whole day. subscribe and hit the notification bell.