- Do you sing all the time? - I can't help it, but I do want to say something to you. I brought you a gift. Because, there is only a few people that I can re-gift things to. And the reason is, is we share actually many things in common. - We do. - But I would like for you Now, I got two. So, I'm being honest with - Are these best friend necklaces? Are we best friends? (laughter) - I'm so in. - I think that's gonna happen. But anyway, go ahead, and you'll see why I'm gonna remember-- - Oh my gosh. - Okay, so we have the same initials. - I know, I was literally, when I was like, &quot;From KC to KC.&quot; I thought it was so clever. It's not that funny. - I got three of these, three! - Oh, so you don't need 'em all. I love it! (audience applause) Wait, is this for jewelry? Or like, what is this? - What you do is you put 'em on your shoe and just so you know, Katie Couric got the other one. - Oh, there we go, the other KC. I actually know a lot of It's weird. (animal noise) What in the world? It sounded like a gremlin got out. - It's the kookaburra! - It's the kookaburra. I can't say it with a cool accent. - I actually practiced doing him. - Okay wait, can you harmonize with that? If we played it, could you Okay, Robert, Bindi-- - Can you bring the bird out? I'm gonna harmonize with Kristin. Come on. We're gonna harmonize, we're gonna do it. We can do it. - This is so exciting. - Good to see you. - Look, it's my size. (laughter) - All right, okay he may Moe won't but hey, can we play it? We're gonna try-- this is the sound. - This is it, okay. (kookaburra call) (Kristin mimicking kookaburra call) - That was amazing. I love you. - He doesn't know what to do. This is amazing. - This is like most of my boyfriends, they're scared of me! - No literally, you are so great. - I think he likes you, definitely. That was very good. - I thought I got that (mimics kookaburra) but not that (mimics kookaburra). - You are truly one of lights up the room, like and I feel like we're we're both kind of like but are you always like that? - No. No, I think it's-- and I think it's important to say this. People think, there's and probably you too that it's rainbows, and unicorns, But I'm human and I've struggled with sadness and even-- - I've suffered from depression. - Depression. And people are like, &quot;Really? &quot;That can't be real,&quot; but I do and I have tools that help me. First of all, I have counseling. I have a great mom that I talk to and I have a great group that really listen. And I think that's-- and I have faith and for whatever faith is for everybody else. Mine's God so that helps. What else is confusing, it left field and it can be makes me go, &quot;I'm sad,&quot; and you pull yourself out of it. You put your big girl panties up. Or you take the time, and - I think you have to do that. I think that you do, I'm clapping. I also wanted to talk to you though, because I know you're dating. - Yes. - You're dating so lie, and do you wanna tell us now? I'm just kidding. - Girl talk. You know what? Not to get weird, but I think that also it's important to say this, especially to our younger fans and younger I come from the Bible Belt in Oklahoma, very proudly so, but with that means that you're supposed to get married, have two point five kids, You know, white picket fence house. And I didn't choose that for my life, I had other goals and at first, it was always a shame, like, I shouldn't tell people about having children or even maybe getting married, and I've I've got a great one right now. Marriage might be the deal, it might, but it's never what's been my... It hasn't been what's And for a long time, I - Yeah, especially from where we're from. - Because of where we're from. And also, thank you. - Did people always think you were gay? People thought I was gay forever. - I've had some boyfriends to make me wish I was gay, but no. (Kelly laughs) - Me too! Me too. - No, I'm not. And as far as, like people will go, &quot;You're not gonna have a child?&quot; And it's almost like, oh selfish. But I take care of a lot of kids. I have many cousins, I have and this is also important to say, as an adopted child, if I ever wanna-- if I had that so desire one &quot;Maybe I missed the boat there's been so many who've done that and I There's many out there. - The thing about that two Like my mom just got stuck with me. (Kristin laughs) Like, you were picked. Like they got to pick you. - Yeah, that's like really cool. - It's a special feeling about my adoption. And you know, my family, and real tall, and you and thy should never sing, actually ever. But I don't do math. But we learn from each other, you know? - That's awesome. That's so great. All right, well tell because I want it? - Well it's called &quot;For The Girls.&quot; I made a record for the all the women that have inspired me. You know, we're talking Barbara Streisand, we're - Love. - We're talking a lot of the greats. And I did it my way but I paid-- I tipped my hats to the greats. 'Cause &quot;I'm a Woman,&quot; and Reba to sing it with me. And then I did &quot;I Will which I can't believe-- - Gosh, that is insane. - My extensions fell out of my head when she said yes. - She's the loveliest human ever. That's the best compliment ever. - Has anyone ever met anyone - She's the nicest human in the world. - The nicest! (audience applause) - And you also, this is what I find interesting, you have a duet with since she was little, right? - Since she was seven She came-- there we are, we did I love that child. She came back to see &quot;Wicked,&quot; and she said, &quot;My granddaughter wants to sing,&quot; and I said, &quot;Oh well that's sweet,&quot; you know, &quot;good luck.&quot; (laughter) And then she-- - Worldwide superstar. - Yeah, so I'm like, &quot;Okay, we'll see.&quot; And then she kinda sang oh, I checked myself And I said, &quot;Here's a little wand,&quot; because I created the &quot;Keep that with you and and she kept it all these and I wanted to bring... I wanted to bring her in the record and we did &quot;You Don't Own And it's, I'm so proud of her. I love her. - Oh my God, that's so cool. That's so cool. - Thank you. - It's super, super great. So when are you taking When can people see it? It's in November, right? - Yeah, the first two weekends in November I'll be playing on Broadway and have very special guests come. And it's at the Nederlander get tickets now and please come see it. - Oh my God, it's gonna be great. Here's the funny thing though. We both have like, Broadway in common 'cause we both grew-- well, you have like actual Broadway. And then I just grew It's very different. But my point is is I remember when I was a little kid, I was like, &quot;Oh, we're-- &quot;Okay, so we're just &quot;like we were just talking &quot;break out in song, and - Yeah, we call that a Monday on Broadway. - I know, but it's so awkward. It's a beautiful thing but I was like, how awkward is that that you just like go all the sudden in song-- How can it be I feel like I have known her forever Could she be my less talented And long lost sister - Oh my gosh, so like about this is now you're and you're doing the Hallmark thing? - Yes. - I love Hallmark Christmas movies. - Oh my God, it's a good movie, Scott Wolf's in it and And I wrote the title song for it. You'll love it. - [Kelly] What's the title song called? - &quot;A Christmas Story,&quot; Hallmark, watch it. - Oh my God, that's so great. It all makes sense I'll never be alone now It all Makes sense She'll always be right here (audience cheering) - Oh my gosh, so tell me about that's crazy. So you sing with them. - The tabernacle choir's you need to do it, girl. - You're cooler than me, - That's gonna happen. I'll help it. - So how did you get involved with that? - They asked me to do it so I and I got to do it. And it comes on at Christmas. - Aw! I finally found her Yes you found me And we'll always be - I love having you here. - I love you.