Out of all the characters in Undertale, Sans Smash Bros. Mii skin, and the pervasive impact of popular as Sans is, his characterization has been his character lost to the hype of his boss battle People know what Sans is, but who along with why he works. So, let's take a step We're sticking strictly to Undertale, Deltarune, and any offshoot material written by Toby the alarm clock dialogue, and other extras, So, with that said, let's Sans' first notable appearances were in as well as the dialogue at the end of the demo. back guy who enjoys making playful jabs at his while Sans does poke at his brother with a little for Papyrus' interests, asking you to play the And I think this little bit of early material at least as far as his more But this actually makes for a fascinating Starting off as a spooky silhouette, the game and echoing footsteps. A branch snaps. The Only to lead into his goofy theme song, matches with an equally goofy voice Maybe it's the way you're dressed How Sans interacts with you will differ depending and you aren't doing the murder run, you get his trick continues as planned, and he establishes yet doesn't have the motivation to do so. where he reveals that the reason he took such a For now, though, it just adds to his worth noting that this dialogue with Frisk turning around and Sans noticing they'd heard it before. This is the first of many though contrary to popular belief, Sans does not really good at reading people, and he even Through these interactions, Sans does poke a construction of the bars or his deep desire to playful interaction even though Frisk is by he urges you to play along, tries to While he annoys Papyrus with bad puns and presumed the world of his brother and is really just an opportunity to bring some joy into Papyrus' Papyrus' bombastic demeanor and recognizes his And throughout Snowdin Forest, he remains very a way to push Papyrus and bring out the best in claiming to keep an eye out for you, and this throughout Undertale's world. It's more excellent Sans anticipates a fight with his brother teach you how to prepare for it, even if it's with teleporting across the Gyftrot room, coupled direction also set up that he has some strange And that's the key thing with Sans in teases at a greater mystery, but on the whole, positive presence that everyone seems his visits to Grillby's. While he and his according to the Snowdin shopkeeper, And there's even a comic from one of the about this. According to this comic, Sans asking for the usual. This comic also establishes despite Sans always putting orders on his covering for Grillby. This ties in quite well as you also see him manning multiple different as well as doing standup at the MTT resort. Spare Papyrus, and you get more mysterious teases going on under his door, which, with Deltarune it bears a striking resemblance to the we don't have any real explanation for of the bigger theories about this, which Other things of note are Sans' tendency to leave and sticky note trolling. Papyrus describes Sans which is most likely a Butterscotch Cinnamon further reaffirmed by a phone call conversation snail-shaped pasta, which can be further His pranking goes beyond socks on the floor, quantum physics books, which is one of our of course, we can't forget Sans plaguing busting out the trombone from within his But really, I'd say that besides that tease at our first real look at a more introspective side it starts out with more of Sans' trademark humor, from either pranking Frisk with a whoopee their food or drinking it straight from but the conversation soon shifts to his brother, Most players will probably tell Sans that about his battle body. However, if you say that Papyrus pushed him to get that sentry And states that while it's nice it couldn't be further from the truth. This tucked away nugget of foreshadowing even if he soon jumps back into but the real show stopper in this scene is when Premonition plays. Not only is the atmosphere Sans and Frisk while the rest of Grillby's text suggests he'll be talking about Flowey, Yet the way he describes this flower's too clear that this is, in fact, Flowey, he urges you to keep an eye out. And that often gets misconstrued. He cares but isn't a helicopter sibling. He has immense and cares so much that if you kill Papyrus, last corridor, taking his music with him Except in one sole exception: Shyren's tickets made of toilet paper, he watches So it's not that Sans doesn't care about his mess. The truth is that Sans hides these which becomes all the more apparent if Because with neutral runs, his judgment typically and as long as you feel confident in what if you DID kill his brother, his eyes go dark, brother killer&quot; or coldly asks why you killed I'll have more to say regarding Papyrus' death but with the stage set, let's move For most of the game after Snowdin, Sans plays mistaking him as a gag character with how like covering a telescope with pink asleep at his sentry station Sometimes he'll interject during calls with more, though if you call outside the laboratory, And that's interesting, because it shows that Sans but if you haven't yet experienced True Lab, of the banter in the pacifist epilogue hint at a never fully explored in-depth. But that mystery, and Alphys' shared scientific interests, which Phone calls where he not only mentions that Sans never tells anyone anything about himself. And as he mostly talks about his brother. This phone about Sans that isn't his brother, his alleged In fact, I think it's rather noteworthy opens up about himself in neutral and So, there's a few things to unpack here. First, there's the meeting between Sans and Toriel. formed such a genuine connection with someone knock-knock jokes and making other people Sans is someone who wants to make others feel why it bothers me when he's portrayed as distantly Sure, Sans hates keeping promises. I think especially when you take into account that time at its whims, yet despite himself, he he doesn't lift a finger even He'll still open up about this if the But what else I find fascinating here is to Frisk's desire to go home. When where he says &quot;you'll never see 'em again,&quot; about &quot;giving up on going back,&quot; there's an air of in his secret lab of monsters you've never seen even taken on its own, this exchange And moreover, the way he encourages Frisk some respects works as subtle foreshadowing Underground is seemingly impossible without just about Asgore. In his fight, he mentions and that giving them positive experiences might of depth to his motives here, showing that is still empathetic enough to And in normal play, Sans' &quot;dead where you moment. It comes out of nowhere. The makes it just so chilling, especially And this is essentially the essence prevalent are what makes little because you see something beyond his It leaves you craving more... And that desire for more can The MTT resort scene sets the stage for tease at Sans' hidden depths, but even with giving the explanation of LV and EXP It shows Sans has a deep understanding of hard with blatant deconstruction of those deeply on in any other RPG. While Undertale than the average RPG encounter, Sans When you kill in an RPG to level grind, it becomes muscle memory. It becomes easier to distance playthrough, or especially if you're a seasoned and you haven't really thought about the finally clicks, if Flowey's end of Ruins speech Though some people feel attacked by this. playing a video game, and to that I say, keep discussing this meta aspect of Undertale from act of defeating enemies like killing people in Though what's interesting is the lack other than the aforementioned Papyrus you won't get unique judgments for your speeches depending on how much LV you get, even saying that you suck at being evil if What makes these judgments so funny is back just to see what he has to say after killing usual spiel, you clearly haven't learned anything Pacifist is another story entirely, providing If you made it this far without and you can tell from Sans' reaction that he's doesn't make you naive, but that you carried gaining love from the world around you This speech ties directly into Moon: Remix RPG Adventure, and I actually if you'd like to check it out! I'll But back to the speech, Sans emphasizes how battle with Asgore, but applauds your Sans, who, as you find out in the more murderous Sans outright admits to having little everything he does will just get swept he's jaded. There, he's tired, and the because he's the last one standing and Yet here, Sans believes. He still knows that you could do it all again. He still but in this moment, he's willing to hold out And it's a shame that you'll only ever see this because it's SUCH a poignant moment and such And then, if you reload on this travel in a far more positive light. How the codewords he'd use to to But it's not just one codeword. No, Sans keeps the last, requiring you to reload multiple times fartmaster&quot; and finally get the key to his room. ...that you just got owned, making joke in true Sans fashion. However, his room still proves rather While the silly treadmill and the and the sock collection and thank you letter the crumpled up blanket on an otherwise bare nihilism pervading Sans as a result of the with photos of a time gone by, the don't and mysterious blueprints that There's also a mysterious badge, and that to this day remains a mystery. Our only he used to give personal insight on the game. Neither of them could fix the machine, no Perhaps Deltarune will address these an open book with pages blank for you to fill pair his Pacifist speech with his encouraging goes to show how significant a pacifist run I see some people say that Sans isn't depressed extensively or just general, explicit sadness. motivation or pervasive apathy, and smiling such an interpretation of Sans is valid. Depressed happy. So if you see Sans in such a way, I totally The neutral endings contain vital characterization him, with other characters weighing in, depending one of the more common endings you'll there's an air of bittersweetness. Sans calmly and the complications brought about by the but between Toriel's efforts and Sans assures Frisk that they aren't losing hope. That's consistent with the Sans you see in to hope again, even through hard times. his buddy and saying that he'll be seeing It's all downhill from here, though. In the Toriel branch, assuming Undyne or less the same. However, we learn from with the skeletons and works at Sans' &quot;illegal Sans, like his brother, is willing to help In the empress Undyne ending where passive aggression from Sans. He blatantly how Toriel was banished and Undyne is more only to casually bring up It goes to show how much Sans values Toriel that, he goes to live with her, brings have as roomies. It's almost sweet... until and Sans is not afraid to call it out. The as he mentions how he doesn't have the heart to and it once again shows that Sans cares about painful truth and the loss of a loved one And then, like a badass, he says to just how angry he is. It's a chilling note The other related ending branches with Papyrus people rebel, Sans and Papyrus simply visit her to leave sometimes by watching over her Sans' loyalty to the people he cares about. He but he's much less cold and cutthroat, no doubt If Toriel dies and Undyne takes the throne, Sans brings up Toriel's absence, playing it if you killed Papyrus, he doesn't feign his eyes turn dark, and he chilling anything at all...?&quot; and ends the call with is how Sans is willing to restrain himself cares. But when it's just him, and he doesn't Interestingly, the Mettaton ending branch Sans simply becomes Mettaton's his dialogue doesn't really change. Papyrus is still alive and well, working the skeletons are fairly aware of the disturbing this case, Sans simply doesn't have it in him to Toriel and Undyne must die to get this Papyrus is more outgoing and willing to talk Mettaton just takes center stage, far But it's interesting, too, how Sans treats death Papyrus states that Sans told him that the Sans refusing to tell Toriel that Frisk killed his Sans really seems reluctant to be honest with his find so interesting is that in the King Papyrus But he only brings this up when he's sure that of Papyrus, but I think he values Papyrus' hide harsher realities from his brother to the murder run as well, where he asks you to even though he doesn't see you as one Papyrus seems aware of this, because where Sans doesn't answer, he shows he knows what where Sans is around, he plays up an an interesting undercurrent to the brothers' certainly, but I think there are times and wants to shield Papyrus, even when And then we get to the two endings where you kill one, you get a silly ending where the Annoying Dog Sans describes this as the best possible outcome feels like more of a gag ending, especially when No music. Just a cold, chilling wind. Sans it's quiet, and everyone suspects they'll die become leader because he's not cut out for it easy abruptly shifts when he says that with the return of his cold, dark eyes. What's ending. One ends with a simple &quot;see ya,&quot; but kill It's less crowded! Doesn't that feel good? and the cherry on top is when These endings all demonstrate controlled anger. He doesn't yell. often opting for passive aggressive jabs to really collected fury is honestly really impactful dialogue and that dark-eyed portrait, And then there's the Alphys ending... It's interesting how, unlike in the more direct role. While not the leader, he her loneliness and grief in the aftermath of so simply handing the phone off to Alphys. because what's the point? This is Alphys' but I love how he puts her first, even though But with this bleak ending out of the way, we it's time to discuss the no mercy I'm not going to start with Sans' boss matters significantly more than people give the game's more murderous run starts similarly to notices the lack of reaction or any real emotion but if this isn't your first run, it gives and it fits very well with Sans' perception when Sans comes across as very confused with how off mentioned, he asks Frisk to continue &quot;pretending&quot; I talk about the significance of the different As you progress, Sans keeps showing disappointment He tries to encourage you to play along. There's can pick up on LV and EXP, it hits even harder but is subtly nudging you to stop. Subtly trying shenanigans. I think, while he doesn't show it This is more or less confirmed after the his final plea not to kill Papyrus. Sans' eyes time,&quot; and his sudden disappearance are Interestingly, if you killed Papyrus in a Sans will tell you not to fight Papyrus outright. but worth noting as it's yet another But then Sans disappears for the rest much like in neutral runs where Papyrus dies. His speech in the last corridor echoes Papyrus' worst person can change. Though, by this point, to his earlier &quot;bad time&quot; comment in his final and in the moment preceding the fight, he comes to fruition, and it shows a bit of guilt And so we get his opening speech, interestingly it's just a distraction, and Sans shows that he even the game. He'll attack mid-monologue, he'll the fight progresses. Sans knows he's weak, so lacks in raw power, trying to be as obnoxious as Yet, for players desperate for more Sans, they anomalies, &quot;our reports...&quot; This line alone has Sans and Gaster? Sans and Alphys? To this clear awareness of the nature of resets, even only make educated guesses based on your reactions Sans detects the end of everything, blaming undoubtedly contributed to these anomalies. But experiences, Sans has very little to go off of, the human killing everything in their path, His awareness of how his actions they could be wiped away explains so much. but any attempted interventions would have been or his efforts would get wiped away again and never knowing when it'll all be undone, In this run, you don't give him hope. In a future where he's happy and free. He gave but even he acknowledges that these are just has no choice but to fight, because there's no one But I think his final plea to your emotions is a in many cases, this speech holds normally before seeking out Sans' fight, lonely and wanting a friend, reflects the those who truly immerse themselves in the And yet, is it not attachment, in here? The desire to see another side and the desire to see what he's made Even when you spare him, he acknowledges moment he dunks you, he shows some level he affirms that if you were ever friends, And that's what makes it so sad if you where he laments that if you kept going, then Sanses,&quot; this further cements that he himself especially when combined with where he deduces the number of deaths based on jokes all the while. Even in this darkest hour, Nor does his compassion, with how he truly thought would help change its ways. Between his promise and this faint glimmer of hope, it contextualizes game and why he brings along jokes and humor. He right path and make you feel like you don't This shows in the way that Sans the route at Papyrus. One simple change, Even in the pacifist run, Sans doesn't will turn out fine. He hopes that it he does believe there is humanity to be found even a reason behind their actions, and if they have a So, in some regards, you can read his on that possibility. Waiting, watching, observing the power they hold and reflect. I think that's reflection, even at high LV. His respect for outlook are also likely factors in addition But by this point, he knows there's no turning all until you quit. If you quit, but he'll keep Until he's worn himself out and all and even then, he passes out. His cheap he plays it off like he's just gonna go back to to give the satisfaction of breaking down in front This is further justified in the way that he goes His final words once again show when he asks his brother for an But that's the worst possible outcome. What about the Pacifist ending and all the First and foremost, we see Sans and between their adorable meeting during the and Papyrus must suffer more horrible puns that Sans and Toriel exchange through the epilogue phone and making silly jokes at her expense, Even though this is their first time being organically play off each other like this, having encapsulates the strength of their connection One huge moment in the reunion scene comes Sans acts genuinely surprised that you haven't how sincerely he believes in Frisk by this point. and he genuinely roots for your victory. It's becomes downright tragic if you follow Another highlight in the epilogue is with Alphys predicting Sans' joke as the two have so few onscreen it's such an organic behavior between friends Oh, and we can't forget how casually Toriel called her mom, or all of the above, latter is in particular. But oh, he's tapping into that goofy uncle or older But otherwise, most of Sans' comments of his silly quips. But he and Toriel are to each other. While his presence otherwise is you can tell just how happy he is all into the post-game canon materials, such as The Q&amp;A mostly focuses on silly shenanigans Sans and Toriel question is worth noting and Toriel have such a close rapport Papyrus and cuts little mazes into his lunchable, only for Sans to eat the They have a cute back and forth, where Sans says otherwise, and we learn that Sans and Toriel Toriel throws the pizzas like frisbees. Sans but it's all in good fun, and this closeness Like with the Q&amp;A, it's strongly implied that and we see more of Sans and with Sans calling Toriel out in the cold for a her face. A really sweet touch happens where he sees Sans sleeping peacefully how Sans genuinely seemed to have such a good time more notably, that it's been quite some time On Undyne's page, she mentions a few passed the puck to Sans during the hockey and Sans just passed it back. Then slapping their hockey sticks together and This shows that Sans is finally starting to heal the surface. They can all enjoy simple pleasures pranks, like taking bones from the dinner Papyrus places. In Sans' section, he gives Papyrus so Though, much like during the game, Sans hardly other partygoers, but appreciating that the The Papyrus interviews in the newsletter reveal mayonnaise to the fact that if he was Papyrus' without being asked. We see him troll Papyrus without actually going in the bath and also tricked Papyrus into trying mayonnaise admits that sometimes he'll trick his bro Lastly, in the 9th anniversary Q&amp;A also and Papyrus often get together for lighthearted itself features more Sans being playfully a ton of new depths per se, we do learn that he Before we move on to Deltarune, I just want from the Xbox-exclusive Sans casino dialogue, For instance, interacting with the fast food he has a greater fondness for in large part due to the atmosphere. This during one show, he said just one pun, and Asgore closed the curtains. Despite this abrupt finish, his best, showing that Sans is rather close to Get enough particles, and Sans will also talk out to hand out presents. Aside from mentioning Sans fondly remembers getting a gift from was just a pair of socks, but given Sans' sock We get a taste of Sans and Alphys' where he went to Alphys for game recommendations tends to fixate on specific games at a given time, ever comes out on gamerbox. It's not that video games, especially with his other nerdy see how his friendship with Alphys connects to Plus, we find out with the energy drink how Sans stuff while collecting scrap metal for her these cans in Mettaton's construction, suggesting scientist days. It's a bit unclear, since a including when exactly the skeletons arrived. At in on the amalgamates' existences, and his Gaster Interact with the dog statue, and Sans jokes about who offers it to you. Ironic, given his Grillby's poker table being too tall to play, he'll later as a sign, after joking about being the tallest how after the annoying dog tears through the also ties into Papyrus' other weird remark in a Whether or not that's true is Papyrus seems to blame Sans for a lot recounts about how ecstatic Papyrus gets and how even when Sans reminds his brother, It's a cute glimpse into their more mundane Apparently, Sans also likes to attend MTT's comedy of him modding himself to replace stay the same. Thus, you get Mettaton rigged I do like how the Gamerbox interaction also the casino footage online, since by the time it was already out on PC, Switch, and with Sans' character to do just that Deltarune doesn't bring a lot of new material concerned, but what I find so fascinating about trollish side of Sans really is a genuine part of woes in Undertale. Granted, it's possible that After all, there's the aforementioned Deltarune's world, and while my earlier it would explain several ambiguities fact that he speaks of understanding what the photo of the monsters Frisk doesn't recognize about giving up on &quot;going back&quot; and his lost With his ties to Gaster in Undertale, However, for the sake of this video, I want to focus on the concrete Chapter 1 introduced Sans as a fairly recent which seems to have been built out of an abandoned to run a business in Hometown but was outdone by What we do learn is that Sans remains who's not afraid of cracking jokes and trolling. the &quot;Hotline for Idiot Babies,&quot; which the response that you choose. There's also the which he plays straight, revealing rapport since she started shopping at Chapter 2 builds on this by showing the and puns until Asgore very awkwardly crashes the is how Sans turns his back once the two start fully aware of the divorce-driven tension and Sans is incredibly awkward when Asgore tries comparing his antics to a movie, He isn't cruel, but he also doesn't humor Asgore, which I think shows that this Sans has a great to play wingman to a guy who's made one of It is worth noting, though, that Sans is the one food item in his unless you give him the egg in chapter one. Asgore despite some discomfort and is willing Similar to in Undertale, Sans also shows encouraging Kris to hang out with him, since Papyrus doesn't seem to get out much or have but it's nice to see the kind older His love of pranks also extends to Susie when she tries to ask for the boss, then the how he can't pay for other employees on ruffling her feathers. When she takes note of he continues to grill her by messing all good natured ribbing, though, Thus far, he and Alphys aren't especially close, with a flair for the dramatic.The impression is that he isn't quite somebody that everyone approachable. Whether or not he has any greater World narrative or the Home Town story remains to to the light world story, Sans' closeness to I suspect we'll learn more about As one final bit of Deltarune trivia, someone originally conceived as a track for Deltarune's This places it alongside Bonetrousle and Heartache I think a big part of the reason Sans is so or fan comics to focus on really big, memorable and the hype surrounding it, it's led to this serious and tragic elements and in the opposite funny joke guy, when the truth is that BOTH sides Serious Sans works because it's so seldom seen. lighthearted character, the rare glimmers you guessing. So, while Sans isn't my I still think he's an important one and characters and has led to oversaturation &quot;Overrated&quot; is an annoying term because it's people genuinely love. Popularity is often the and passionate audiences tend to get which can be grating to I just think that sometimes it's worth stepping because after nearly a decade, it can But please feel free to give your a specific character you'd like to see a please consider checking out my other videos, covering a wide range of game series more. I'll link the playlist in the end of the most obscure sources of inspiration I've got some fun video projects cooking in and the 4th wall in video games and a long term fans. Before that, I'm looking to do a smaller his character that are woefully overlooked. though, so the best way to stay up to also get access to scripts, video drafts, To everyone who made it this far, thanks so