Select your preferred language subtitles in video settings Hell has Namibia is home to the Nothing can withstand the fiery There are two golden rules in the Namib, always drive in a four by four Dicky doesn't follow despite the risks, this daredevil prefers to in an old van from the - One of the difficult thing changes, the dunes move every day. The weather changes constantly, we've got four different types. The wind might be blowing. They might be fog and visibility can sometimes be almost zero. The climate is very hot during during the night with the sandstones it's always a problem. We've got snakes, we've got scorpions, you have to be vigilant all the time. You need to be experienced Dicky doesn't He had the crazy idea to build a hotel on the other side of the desert, several hours from the nearest town. He occasionally wonders what - There's no backup, there's no friends. It might take days before Spending a night in the that you want to do. The Namibians The Devil's Cauldron. And the nation certainly This year Namibia is experiencing its worst drought in 30 years. People try to find To combat the sun's blazing heat. Solidarity is key, water beaten tracks to take water Most of the rivers have disappeared. So the Herero and Himba to find watering holes that they can share with their livestock. The food shortage brought on tribes out of the bush. But their struggle against their undeniable zest for life. The Namibians fight so that the gods occasionally In Northern Namibia, the These old pumps either retrieve nothing or a less than desirable liquid. This is the only water point Jimmy is setting off to in the bush with water. Unfortunately, his vehicle Jimmy is transporting 500 liters of water, which is just enough Unfortunately, for Jimmy And the engine isn't Without water transporters, like Jimmy, several families would be forced to give up their ancestors land. In six months, almost 60,000 animals have died of thirst in this country. It's February, right in the but the earth is as hard as concrete, due to the water scarcity, One in five Namibians To save their livestock, farmers require several but none of them can afford it. For now, Jimmy still to fill his containers, but for how long? The drought is forcing an entire These individuals now rely on towns like Opuwo to get their food. And unbelievable almost in this supermarket. These are Himba women. They form part of one of the Normally they would never but since nothing is the village chief has sent them shopping for supplies for the whole community. There is one item in particular that the Himbas are not Butter is a necessity in their culture. - The Himbas use butter but now with no grass are not producing enough milk Their trolleys are full of flour, sugar, and oil enough to feed the Their village is two hours away and finding it requires There are no signposts in the bush. This man is one of the rare the trail like a tracker. - We are used to. We know like if you drive slow, sometime you have been Now you just follow your Track. - Am telling them, they - Why? 'Cause when you are going up sometime they don't sit properly For the Himba people. The journey has also been There was a time when the Himbas almost completely disappeared. In 1904 German settlers exterminated all the tribes who tried to This massacre is thought of the 20th century. Nowadays the Himbas live to respect their ancestors traditions. The men have rarely seen in they go out to take care of the livestock. Shortly after their shopping trip, the women make their beauty product. The butter is melted and - The Himba women are very cleanly, even though they never Personal hygiene is with a perfumed smoke bath the red ointment hydrates their the sun and from insect bites. - The Himbas are guided by wisdom. Their philosophy is to No matter the problem, Dicky was born in Namibia. He follows the Namibians When traveling to the hotel, It's best to stay calm. There are many surprises on this track. - You've got broken vehicle. That's a life and death you can imagine getting The rear suspension It's 45 degrees, but Dicky - Now look at the trouble Huh? Yeah. Phones rarely So the Namibians have gotten used to traveling with a toolbox. - So now we have to drive but we will see, hopefully she'll make it. this car maybe more already on the engine. I have replaced the but the race of the car is very old. It's a 1972 model. And it's only been driving here in Namibia on the difficult roads. So it does not know how a tall road looks. The two friends Even though the hotel is still - Five years we've been never have you let me down. Maybe the car has let us In the Namib as far as the eye can see the Saltworks have a site worthy of an impressionist painting. These spectacular shades of It's also a potent dye. If these pink flamingos they would be white. The road through the but it's still very dangerous. - Unfortunately, these that has died on this road It shows you how dangerous In Namibia Right now, the danger is in the sky. Even the Himbas who use from the sun are struggling. Due to the persistent drought, the Himba women are forced to search for water further away from the village. The river near to their home has dried up. Every day these women walk for over an hour under the scorching sun. They continue their journey It's the only water point A few rare clouds keep this Sharing the water with as an honor. The Himbas believe that the dead are reincarnated as part of the herd. Each woman carries almost Back at the village two of the women are preparing for a long trip. Talararua is one of them. She's leaving to represent the tribe at a funeral for a respected Himba chief. - Talaria and young Kapeki ceremony with a delegation Although these women may not look alike. The two ethnic groups are closely related. They originally came from the same tribe. The Herero women wear the wives of the 19th century German settlers. The wives were preoccupied by being surrounded by these naked women. So they taught them to sew. But even though the Hereros this didn't stop the Germans and the Himbas out. These women are going to They're about to embark on the back of this pickup. There has always been a certain rivalry between the two tribes. It occasionally raise its head when there's plenty of time to spare. After being shaken about in a Erastafin and her friends to the driver. With four hours left on the road. The Hereros complains have barely began. The wind is scorching hot. Even the birds refuse And yet this brother and into the Namib desert, hours of walking without In fact, Dorothy and Manuel are carefully avoiding the only bushes that are tall enough to offer them some. They are just under two miles their days working their digging for semiprecious stones. The mine doesn't belong to them. Dorothy and Manuel dig there The caves location is a secret. Their family passes it to generation like a legacy. The tunnel is only 10 meters deep, which is not enough to After two hours, the mixture of hot air and dust becomes almost stifling, but Dorothy and Manuel don't slow down. After spending four hours finally give in to the heat. The mine is like an oven. But Manuel's work is far from finished. Now he has to sell the stones. He sets up his stand on This minor spends hours that passing travelers will Topaz, citrine and tourmaline gems, stones forged in sweat and sold for a ridiculously And even then these sales can Manuel's village is situated several families share these metal shacks, which have turned white from the sun. The heat inside is unbearable. If Manuel had belonged to or the Hereros, he wouldn't be any richer, but his quality of life would be better. In these tribes, solidarity Nobody is left to fend for themselves on the side of the road. Back in the Himbas territory, some light rain has brought Talaria immediately has reinvigorated a much love fruit tree. After three hours on the road, Without these bush taxis, the Himbas and the Hereros walking to the tribal leader's funeral. These outcasts play a key thousands of people from living isolated from the rest of the world, and also supplying them with food. The driver takes advantage merchandise ordered by the Just before the taxi sets off again, another Himba family asked to be driven to the hospital for an emergency. Their little boy has been bitten by a dog. With four extra people in Erastafin Can't hide her frustration. Once they reached the hospital, the boy's mother will quickly forget this unpleasant encounter. Her son's injury isn't serious. After a few stitches the doctor lets them go home. A little further on, a group of women have stopped like Erastafin and Talaria, they're on their way to the funeral for the Himba chief. But their bush taxi has broken down. They've already spent an hour waiting in the 45 degree heat. Unlike its neighboring there is very little racism in Namibia. One, look at the situation - Do you want water? He doesn't hesitate - There are some water point around here, we've seen some water point, but where we are now We just try to be nice because over here, anything can happen to you. And then if we don't help each other, we get in a bad situation. It's really hard These They can survive long time without water, but they don't like it, so That's the last little bit, So it's finished. Thank you. The trunk will two hours later. The passengers were very in their difficult situation. The roads in Namibia are often deserted. The country is one and a half And there are only eight As the day draws to its end. Dicky leaves the Namib desert to enter another bleak landscape. Namibia's Moon Valley. Living here seems impossible. And yet... Deep within this barren Dicky has built his hotel here. Old cars have been tactfully to accentuate the apocalyptic feel of the surrounding mountains. Convincing tourists to travel but he hopes to entice - They are busy building a They only get a truck maybe once a month and then it's a big load, but they only wanted the small quantity. That's why they asked me to So hopefully in two weeks And then it would be a nice Dicky is for now the spring keeping his freely but he is afraid that Unfortunately, the blazing sun is not only a danger to people. Namibia is also a wild animal are starting to run out of water. 82 year old Andrew has been on the local wildlife for years. This farmer's land spans He raises sheep and cattle with the other wild animals in the Savanna but the water scarcity is - We'll go now to a water drinking place. Cattle and the sheep We are now getting into drive alongside the Sandy rivers, you do need four wheel vehicle You can see, thee is a Bottom part of the grass is And this stuff the wild I just drive off this normal road. Surely we can go to the place with your shoe brush and do kudos. And to know what kind of The Zebra tracks, you are part they're also part of life, Soon there will because in a few days, the but suddenly a miracle takes place. It finally starts to rain. - Its not a lot of rain but hopefully it will As expected, the sun quickly dries the earth But the rain still gets Andrew his reward, a herd of zebras and ostriches. This spectacular site is If the rain doesn't quickly Talaria and Erastafin's bush taxi has finally reached the main road. Although they're still smiling, the journey has been exhausting. It took the driver eight Now that they've arrived, the funeral for the respected Himba tribe Over a period of three days, these men and women will pay Namibia is still a young country. It only gained its independence in 1990. The Namibians lives are between ancient tradition and modernity. However, the drought is without water the Exodus will be set in motion.