Scorn is a game designed to frighten you. It depicts a biomechanical nightmare a fever dream where everything you see is a under the foreboding surface, the world of worldbuilding, bringing to life a fascinating is ambiguous by design -- lacking any text are waiting for those willing to look for we'll embark on an expedition across this details with clues from the artbook to uncover screen. Now, let's awaken to the nightmare humanoid creatures of the Scorn universe aren't grown from an unnatural wall, and then plummet end as abruptly as they began. The humanoid comes into the world from this unfeeling system. to stare up at the rows and rows of ruptured if this was the first thing you ever saw. artbook as the Genesis Wall, is one of the Dried husks lie beneath the embankment -- humanoids There's a profound unfairness at play that the game's core themes. Like many things biological, as there are places where the living organs. While the design of the Genesis art, where the wall came from is one question to answer. The wall simply is -- a fact as wall's shadow, a desolate wasteland greets steps. Called 'The Field,' this is a kingdom stripped of all natural resources. Through themselves -- wind-worn structures silently animals. These haunting vistas conjure the horror films like Alien and Prometheus. The on the biomechanical designs for the original world of Scorn. Some of the decaying ruins as a subtle way to pull players onwards. One machines, where industrial vents mark the this industrial mausoleum seems as barren odds, a strange form of life takes shelter all the way back at the Genesis Wall, red insidious infection, and like hermit crabs have come to make their home within the vents. this unforgiving climate. To the side of the is a monolithic structure called The Assembly. many forms of life make their home within. body of a long-dead giant. The hallways and organs, with the ribbed pattern on the walls design once again evokes the spirit of Giger's take on the qualities of living things. While lain dormant, you can guide the playable humanoid aware: Interacting with technology in Scorn fleshy and bizarre, to the point where something unsettling. And the more you explore and interact of The Assembly becomes apparent. The entire of factory. Enormous retro-industrial cranes hooks still sharp enough to be menacing. Spine-like transport carts once rattled through this to a manipulatory claw-arm -- like the world's Yet a question remains: just what was this available resource in the world of Scorn: biomechanical ecosystem are the tragic Moldmen. Assembly is designed to produce, and are grown have been swept away into the corners of the us some glimpse of the scale of this factory's The visuals of the Moldmen are evocative of a painter who explored themes of entropy and on the look of the game, with its emphasis The imagery of a Moldman sitting in a transport the shell also calls to mind the famous Giger visual of a being seemingly fused with a chair, was a key influence in Scorn's development. the team found inspiration not just in how but also in its mysterious nature. In the about the strange being, and that uncertainty Likewise, much about the Moldmen and their left an intriguing mystery. Deeper within grow in temperature-controlled, greenhouse-like purpose of these looming structures is left back of the players' mind as they walk in to be calcified bone encircles the tops of material used elsewhere in the factory. A towers' every need, hydrating the chamber a steady spray of chemical mist, which is for the growth of the columns. Light from through the gloom, bathing the chamber in drones stay fixed on their role in this biomechanical passes by. In the epicenter of the greenhouse, central tree. This massive organism is far appears to be the parent of the unsettling of carrier drone tends to this goliath, taking them directly into the tree. Yet these chemicals Even deeper within the facility, a strange energy. Activating this device will cause revealing humanoids kept in suspended animation player's character than the Moldmen, and the dystopian future in films like The Matrix. Assembly, the more the interiors become increasingly like valves in a heart. Tubes twist through seem to be veins. A corrosive substance analogous with these systems requires the continued traditional video game items like keys and lens they become unrecognizable. A device A key that you pick up elsewhere in the game literal skeleton key. To reload your main which loads bug-like ammunition into a living disquieting interactions seem to examine the Exploring the intersection of the organic central to the biomechanical art movement. easy just to focus on the cool-looking surface interrogate whether humans are losing themselves modern age only grows more and more urgent, into-- technology become increasingly prevalent. themselves is changed over the course of the the player can spot a strange creature scuttling Parasite,' this lifeform eventually merges useful abilities but slowly taking over their is themselves a warped humanoid who, after has lost their identity, with various subtle player takes control of during the game's machinery can assimilate the organic, the from a different perspective, asking where The Assembly lies a gaping abyss known as The Crater are home to far more dangerous domain is a gargantuan, nameless monarch. as an insect queen to the life that infects of workers. These smaller, more animalistic Crater, and take on a variety of shambling Peklar, these beings are made from the same changes, resulting in distorted monstrosities In some areas, flying creatures have evolved, vision, menacing you from a distance. All center, and will rush to their defense if the brood is dangerous, with the largest creatures a trail of slime, the creatures of The Crater These tentacles ungulate slowly, and seem into something more comfortable for the brood. become as dense as a rainforest, as if an cavernous depths. In the distance, a vast land. If you reach the station, the tracks takes you to Scorn's final destination -- the entirely unlike other regions, with clean Yet the more of this abandoned city the player that dwells under the surface. Inside the depict unsettling scenes with reverent detail. turned into something else. The citizens of a corporeal form, with the destruction of regard, Scorn evokes the work of Giger a final murals. In the epicenter of the room, a bronze head, the vaulted ceiling is covered in an tissue. Given all we have seen, it appears live within this network, having abandoned collective. What it is like to be part of within no longer have the means to answer. away in jars are the pale, diminutive Homunculi, batteries. Like many lifeforms in Scorn, these their only individuality determined by the intelligent, able to create and interface confines. While in-game you don't encounter fight, concept art shows their resourcefulness, mechanics in a garage. Although not cited worldbuilding evoke the demonic realm depicted legendary Wayne Barlowe, Barlowe's Inferno the souls and bodies of inhabitants are a While visually the two works are in many ways parallels. Whether or not the nightmarish left up to interpretation. But if a land is from a plane of eternal torment, there's the distinction ceases to matter... But perhaps In the back of the central building, behind opens up to a long walkway. At the end of seems to offer a form of transcendence. Before melt into dreamlike strands, indicating what this matrix is a way to enter the collective or perhaps it's something else entirely. with this nexus -- whatever it truly is -- would of one's self. Is this really salvation, won't give away the ending to Scorn in this turns its back on the exceedingly bleak atmosphere storyline. The world that Scorn builds is There's a lot of unsettling imagery in this here, so be aware of that if you plan to check for all its alien qualities, is undeniably environments, to the droves of people losing technology, the game is full of connections together subtle worldbuilding details and seems that Scorn is indeed supposed to be misuse of technology has left our species a worst-case scenario for the story of humanity. the developers continue it in some form, and As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed subscribing, and hitting the notification See you in the next video.