Get your f---ing hands up! What's the matter with you? Back away! Keep your hands If you're walking up and standing in there with their hands up or laying on the ground, first thing you're going Hi, I'm Cain Vincent Dyer. Over a period of 2 1/2 years, I did approximately Today I'm back to look at in some great movies and All right, calm down. It is absolutely on point. Truck robberies are quite common. I think there was just one in Los Angeles a week ago. They said they had taken, like, $30,000. I think after review it That's actually considerably small for hitting an armored car. The reason for that: That's where the banks get the money from. With that said, you're a hundredfold. You know, those security guards from armored car trucks are trained to shoot back It's a lot different than, the thinking of a bank can typically be to let you have it and just Dispatcher: Any units in I actually used police scanners in a lot of my bank heists. I would tap into the police Knowing when they're coming, knowing how much time So, yes, it's absolutely of that caliber would have. Let's go! Let's go! We also see that they switch which is very, very, very common. All the cars that more than likely, right? Instead of stealing a car, what I would do is I would find that make and model of the car that I had, and I would steal the license There are a lot of guys in crews that are out there that are like that. You have to give &quot;The Town&quot; the 10. What can I do you for, officer? Why are you closed? Robber: We're going to leave one by one. Nobody raise their head. Do not get up. I've gone into banks When I actually talk to when I'm instructing them to do something, it's in a very soft tone. That ability to adapt to a situation. And you see the difference between when he's in the bank and then when he switches his personality to deal with the police officer. Pig's not working, Danny. I told you this thing's a f---ing pig. The car not working in that scene. You'd like to think that operational vehicle when But, hey, things happen sometimes. I actually think that is where you have a lot of bank or they'll park right in front. There's less effort in getting They can just get in and go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Move, move, move, move. Get outside now! Go time. F---. What? We see that there are undercover casing the bank also and waiting. Years later when I turned myself in, I was told that they The special FBI agent who he would put teams together, in front of banks and case banks looking for me to see if I was either casing And it was all guessing work for them because I wouldn't leave too But it is something when they have bigger gangs that are doing multiple robberies or multiple robberies have happened within an area in a short time. There's a lot of special effects in there and things like that, I'd give it an eight. Get your f---ing hands up! What's the matter with you? Back away! Keep your hands In so many bank robberies, we actually witness the robbers coming in and yelling at customers and tellers alike to get down or to raise their hands. That's something that I The thought process behind doing that is to have absolute I never asked anyone to lay on the floor or lift their hands. If you're a customer and you see a bunch of people standing in there with their hands up or laying on the ground, First thing you're going Hello, hello, hello, ladies and gents. We are the ex-presidents! We see the bank-robbery crew the rubber mask. One of the bad things You're alerting people that probably something's going to take place here. I would wear glasses and a baseball hat because I wanted more so and to make certain that no one saw me walking up to the bank Time, Mr. Carter! 60! Let's go, let's go, let's go! In and out in 90 seconds. To be in and out in a minute and a half, pretty much right on the money. Typically, once you go into depending on where law to the bank, it'll typically You have a group of guys that are all going after the drawers, and depending on the location of the bank, they're probably not leaving But I think their thing is quantity. Do a lot of these things, get in, get out, versus spending too much time But for the most part, whenever you have a it seems to be the The overwhelming, the So, &quot;Point Break,&quot; gotta give it a 10. I don't know any of those but I've definitely seen preventative devices like that. A lot of the bulletproof windows. There's this double Well, the way it's set that have been robbed a lot is once you go through that they have a mechanism that where you actually get Get down, get down, get down, all of you! Get on the floor! Me personally, I never I just always felt like the minute you start assaulting people, you really add a whole which just completely The biggest regret that I though I never physically harmed someone in any of the banks I did, there's still a psychological toll that, of trauma, that people that I didn't account for. So for me, part of my penance and doing a prison sentence voluntarily. It was also immersing which I've done over the Worked with a lot of Come on! Put that in! Come on! Let's go! What about it? I have definitely aborted several bank-robbery attempts. One was purely instinct, and sure enough, within two minutes of me sitting there, an unmarked fed car pulled out. Two federal agents got out. Another time is I did have an And since I did know that was going to be through a confrontation, I aborted immediately. There was just some inconsistencies there, so I'm going to give it a four. We see them going into the To be quite honest, those were my favorite times to Because you don't stand out You don't stand out if you and there's less people paying attention to things. Cellphones, cellphones, cellphones! Stay down! I used to believe that and things like that was just because it would add a significant layer of timing for me. By the time they make the call, you should be in and out already. And just disguising yourself properly so they weren't capturing images of you. Take a deep breath and relax. We're here to rob the bank, not you. We do hear him telling the customers, &quot;Hey, this is the bank's I absolutely thought robbing because I was stealing not a mom-and-pop or a Unfortunately, it's not correct thinking, just because of what I Because you don't I personally never attempted solely because what I was and getting out really With that said, I have done interviews on groups that have absolutely severed security systems, built tunnels up under the bank. The guys that do those going for banks that have I can absolutely see a crew Even making some of the I'm going to give it about a seven. All right, give me your gun, then. Everybody sit down. Everybody sit down on the floor. Deciding to hit a bank with is interesting to me. A lot of security guards are also trained not to react aggressively. Most security guards are as a visual deterrent, simply to be a professional witness versus stopping a bank robbery. Ladies behind the counter, not on the alarms, OK? We see him tell the bank employees not to sound the silent alarm. It actually differs with different banks and different branches, those devices are usually managers, assistant managers. Maybe someone in an They will hit the silent you are almost on your way out, versus creating a hostage situation. So it makes sense. Open the gate. I don't have a key. What did you say? Each time I've instructed a bank manager or a head teller to take me into the vault, I always try to take my tone down. What I was able to experience early on, the more you're yelling at a person, the more you're kind of flustering them. When they're under a certain Was he hiding the key intentionally It's hard to say. It's hard to say if I'd give it around a six. Jackson and I will take the vaults because we know how to use the tools. You two are on crowd control. Make it clear you're in charge, In this clip, we get to see of what they're going to be I would go over every entry route, every exit. I made it my job to know that would get me back to my safe area. They're almost done with the vault. I'd always want to be in three minutes, give or take. In a situation where you have a group bank heist or bank robbery, it would probably be a lot easier to make entry into a vault and they knew what they were doing. But if you're a lone robber like I was, it could be quite risky. But it is a method that I used. - Cops. I mean, oh, no, what a bummer, the police! There was a situation back in '97 where two off-duty officers not in a uniform, just posing as a customer within the bank, actually confronted two which ended up in one But a lot of banks won't solely for that matter, because they know that another person inside is just more of a chance of engagement. Don't be mad at me, I'm going to give them a two. Slow down. I ain't speeding. The first thing people would think, well, why are you speeding off? That is just absolute adrenaline. Once a guy told him to slow down, they rolled down both windows. That is something that I Typically, you would assume from something, they'd be trying to be as much incognito as possible. That's it, come on. Ah, ah, ah, no bundles. Just loose cash. One of the bank robbers demanding only loose cash, no bundles. There's this belief amongst bank robbers that so much of the money either have dye packs that will explode once you get a certain or they'll have tracers I've come across a tracer before. If it's a bundle, typically They believe that grabbing just loose currency would prevent them from coming across a dye pack or a tracer. Pretty smart, but it does Robber: Got a gun? Robber: Keep up with Customer: Yeah, I got it. So are y'all going to steal my gun too? In this scene, we see that That is a huge concern Well, at least it was for me, which is one of the reasons why, before I went into the bank, I absolutely would do my homework. I would monitor citizens how they walked, if if they seemed like they just And it's safe to say that's why I probably only had one guy come at me Fortunately, they didn't have a weapon. It's very real, with the keep the gun, just setting Go, run, go! Maybe we should hit that branch in Jayton. No, we ain't. We hit in the f---ing morning. They robbed two banks in the same morning. I'm guilty of that. I knew one bank probably during that morning, and there was another They did it for a different reason. It was clear their first so their desperation drove within the same day. That was very real. Finally something good. Oh, nice. Most people, whenever you've seen someone trying to rob an ATM, they usually have a chain around it attached to a truck and them trying to pull Other thing, as you can see, it's very difficult I personally have never but they do hold a lot of currency, so I could see why it would be tempting. Passerby: Spider-Man is in a bank on 21st Street. Typically, if a bank has a lot of glass, once it gets dark, it's easy to see inside of those banks. All that glass, it's from actually seeing in due Marvel fans, DC fans, please do not send me hate My favorite bank-robbery scene in the movies that we watched today, definitely &quot;The Town.&quot; I don't think you get any more real than what these guys did here. Click up to the left for your next video. And remember, don't rob banks. Do not rob a bank.