[MUSIC PLAYING] Throughout the 14th the area that is now Mexico was known as the Aztecs. Prior to being overthrown through conquistador, this complex developed a unique cuisine So today, we're going to take eating before European contact. But before we get started, be History channel and let us other Mesoamerican topics OK, welcome to Aztec. Would you like to see a menu? If you like chocolate to the Aztecs, who made several to its development. For the Aztecs, what they was considered to be a food is what most people Now just so we're clear, is very different from the For one thing, it wasn't sweet. It also wasn't formed into bars. In fact, it wasn't really The Aztecs actually made a rather than transforming it's used to make now. The effects of that drink were Codex, a 16th by Bernardino de Sahagun, in Mesoamerica. According to him, would make a person drunk, in his words, deranged. In other words, a Yeah! While there has been on the topic over aren't exactly sure what exactly What is known, however, religious significance and the drink was used [MUSIC PLAYING] The Aztec diet but it revolved principally of maize, or what is One well-known was incorporated is in the now world The tortillas they made in size, shape and And everyone in the of social class, consumed them. The flour used by came from corn that went nixtamalization. The kernels were and ashes from Juniper wood. They were then soaked overnight of each kernel had detached. The remaining corn was The Florentine Codex goes about the many tortilla options in Tenochtitlan. According to the sells folded tortillas, thick He sells tortillas with made with honey, pressed tortillas, plain tortillas, sweet tortillas, amaranth seed green maize tortillas, brick tortillas, broken crumbled toasted ones, dried tortillas, It's an appetizing except for maybe the Depends on what they stick of. Makes a difference. The amaranth plant possessed for the Aztecs, and were used in various Amaranth seeds could with sweeteners like or added to other dishes. For lords and upper cooked in tamallis, especially During these celebrations, it to get their hands The Florentine Codex actually of some varieties, such as with ground amaranth And tamallis stuffed Is anyone else that Bernardino Sahagun had Even in an empire where the wealthy still had than everyone else. The upper classes enjoyed flavorful sauces, The Florentine Codex describes devoured by lords as of fowl made in their and with tomatoes and ground is now called pepian. Also known as is today a quintessential While it has evolved the dish actually still carries In its modern form, it's Although there are for a full three-meat version. It always contains such as pear, squash, carrot, And the conventional should be thick and rich with blended together. Evidence shows were cultivated in the And ahuaca-mulli is essentially just a very In fact, it was the Spanish into the word aguacate, evolved into avocado. Meanwhile, the term ahuaca-mulli into the word guacamole. Anyway, the pre-Colombian have eaten these mashed and some coriander leaves. The Spanish picked brought it back to Europe, of their own, the modern version of the dish. That being said, it's still the Aztecs enjoyed. One historian even that when wrapped in a or even enjoyed on ahuaca-mulli might the taste of Tenochtitlan. The land around Tenochtitlan And the Aztecs took full of the situation. They constructed called chinampas, made from the bottoms of Canals were then put in to make them accessible, and to But the Aztecs also used to add to their They feasted on frogs, But they also didn't and larvae from both In fact, one of their a larval salamander. According to the these lake-dwelling prepared in a variety of ways. Frog tamallis, frog axolotl with grains of tadpoles with grains of maize, It was actually the who lived in the area that and 200 BCE that were the These early adopters would for protein, and even for decorative purposes. Their Mesoamerican descendants And the turkeys that owe their existence These domesticated of food alongside which tended to be smaller Some of these alternate came from deer, peccary, armadillos, snakes, gophers, These animals, once captured, until they were eaten. Tecuitlatl, which in the Aztec language, Nahuatl, than its name might imply. It's actually an edible which the Aztecs would like nets and spades. Once gathered, it would After it was dry, would be formed into cakes, used to make tortillas. According to Diaz del Castillo, to visit Tenochtitlan, there who sold little loaves, of a sort of slime, from the great lake, which they of it, which tastes like cheese. A later writer also to cheese, except they and with a certain taste of mud. Known as the corn mushroom, Huitlachoche is a corn is seen as a gourmet food. In Nahuatl, the translates to This is because the growth of corn causing them to fall asleep. This sounds like a bad thing, saw the effect as a Because they still of the fungus that was That's a half glass full When it comes to preparing many authorities agree tastes good raw, while the aged Like many of the peoples, In fact, for this ancient drinking was a lot more It was ceremonial Octli, also known as pulque, derived from the sweet The Aztecs referred to and it's affiliated with a The drink was consumed often from intricate vessels. It would be consumed by before ceremonies, and to celebrate victories. The Aztecs also had various for its consumption For example, when it came the elderly and pregnant And for those who they would have to as intercourse was believed However, despite its to the Aztecs, the believed to predate Aztec society was and while the upper tiers and foods, the lowest to adhere to mostly One example of this the Nahuatl word for cornmeal. Pinoli was something to the itinerant nature of life This simple meal of ground and travelers or warriors to a quick and filling dish. While lacking in be mixed with water and other to make it more enjoyable. These sorts of instant meals, were popular among the Think of them as the ancient of TV dinners. So what do you think? Which of these Aztec food sounds Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.