NARRATOR: We live in a world our ancestors would barely Around the globe... The impact of human ingenuity We've pushed back the limits at speeds - depths - that would have left Driving all these achievements is humankind's extraordinary Through genius and inspiration, we've created exceptional From the everyday... to the spectacular... Some good... And some not so good. This series celebrates our great inventions NEIL ARMSTRONG: It's one small one giant leap for mankind. NARRATOR: What is the connection between the California ripped pockets... and the colour blue? Think of a great invention maybe every single day for work... for play... they sort of have this essence Class-less, age-less, A modern phenomenon... soon to reach 2 billion units We think they're all-American, they would never without the ingenuity They have expression of modesty, NARRATOR: They became synonymous and then movie cowboys. They look great, they can last a very long time NARRATOR: But there's a darker at a time when we're learning This is a fashion that isn't so if we can that's going to matter. NARRATOR: Can we move fast and change the manufacturing Will we ever fall Denim... Jeans? Jeans are the casual that millions of people globally The biggest market in revenue followed by China. But experts report that sales from the Asia-Pacific region All this contributes to a global and predicted to rise. Recent statistics suggest that has seven pairs of jeans And that average American How many pairs of jeans I must have about... 30 pairs of jeans, At a guess I would say that I do wear jeans, yeah, NARRATOR: Why have jeans endured in such an as fashion when most fall by the wayside Designers are driven to invent new fibre combinations. Once human beings started we were on the long road For millennia, clothing had been made out of like animal skins and fur, probably borne out of a basic We developed cutting tools which meant we could cut hides that could be sewn together We experimented with wool from these we made thread This 'Tarkhan dress' is the oldest known It's over 5,000 years old Its beautiful details like and a V-neck demonstrate an PROF. WHYTE: People have and clothes have and there has in that sense There's always been a desire and is going to be imitated. NARRATOR: To imitate, we had if it proved popular, so we invented new tools We developed implements to card to separate it Then, over a thousand years ago, we invented This one is a contemporary copy. And we discovered that silk, could be spun to make yarn. This image shows pieced together from remnants Dating back 3,000 years, and German archeologists worn by warriors Once again the sophisticated gives us an insight It's always been the rich who've but poor working people and peasants would wear the same even though their clothes PROF. WHYTE: is a world in which in which clothing NARRATOR: Weavers the world over that could be made Cotton textiles were cotton grows easily producing strong, reliable yarn which would eventually I think denim because it's made out of cotton, and cotton is this ubiquitous can be used to make clothes. NARRATOR: To produce cotton inventors began tackling every Consequently, progress in took leaps during First came the invention of a more efficient way British weaver James Hargreaves invented his Spinning Jenny when this one, By turning a single wheel, would simultaneously spin cotton instead of one PROF. WHYTE: The second half sees the development of the spinning jenny and a whole that enable them to turn cotton and on scale. And that's transformative them to do is to industrialise which then enables them much more cheaply. NARRATOR: The 'spinning jenny', led to the invention of These ultimately created more that were cheaper than before. PROF. WHYTE: From the poor are still ill-dressed, but they are now shod in a way and it's the beginning that yields the incredibly cheap NARRATOR: Today, mass produced but in the 18th century, every stage of production and invention. DR. ARCHER: So in this time of it was a great time and coming up that people used to do, so spinning jenny where you're able to do or one machine and kind of replicating on the same device essentially. NARRATOR: As industrialisation new improved textiles were not just clothes. North western Italy centred around the port It was already a hub which supplied local weavers. For centuries, there had been a market to supply trading ships They are having to produce which of course is vital So in Genoa for example, the weavers there become famous and endurance of the cloth that NARRATOR: Sail fabric to withstand the natural forces Genoese weavers invented corduroy which became after Genoa. However, this wasn't yet the Little did the Italian weavers would inspire a French version that would change the world of 370 km across weavers in the southern French tried to COPY this successful, hard-wearing jeane fabric But they failed Instead they invented that is now instantly The Nimes weavers called this and the weave combination made it different - it appears predominantly blue The weave was copied but these European roots are fundamental the word 'jean' derives from the and the serge... de Nimes So, Jeans are not you might have thought. Jeans were an unexpected given that fashion trends and cuts are entirely fickle. Thanks to their longevity, are now in business, From mass production to artisan production like this Pattern cutting is key in every because it's the cut and fit from the rest. MALE: A pair of jeans, you've you've got your back pockets, you've got your waistband, your two bearers and your fly, then you have your pocket So there's about 16 pieces NARRATOR: Scissors are used for but an electric straight-knife cuts through multiple plies This tool has been used for RECORDING: To mass produce blue Many layers of material and cut according NARRATOR: In this Pakistani plies of denim are laid out The straight-knife operators to cut out the pre-marked The pieces are then taken where teams of sewing machine The globalisation of the product might have surprised The invention of jeans is down to two unlikely one had rivets, the other Together they made an enduring Yet their invention was simply clothing for working men. Levi Strauss had sailed to join his family firm But the potential business sent him to the west coast where he set up shop, still trading in dry goods 20 years later, he was selling a particularly By now, the French was being copied by textile in Europe and America. Meanwhile another immigrant, had set up shop as a tailor just in Reno, Nevada. Jacob Davis bought some of the to make work-wear. The clientele Davis specifically and, of all the riskiest Californian gold-diggers. This film made in 1954 recreates the Californian and the excitement at once that first flake of gold RECORDING: Gold is discovered the discovery is made 100 miles from a sleepy Gold is right on the surface everyone drops to pan the precious metal. NARRATOR: Gold prospectors in their thousands in 1848, such were the power and speed of to be simply dug up The 19th century by massive mobility - travelling across the globe, NARRATOR: Six months after that there were 4,000 A year later there were 80,000. Arriving in 1849 they came coming from as far away But digging up a fortune PROF. WHYTE: The early I mean they'll have but they will actually find The later prospectors arrive and are often just put to work NARRATOR: What became clear was that the gold prospecter's were not fit for purpose. They ended up having been filled with the of digging and panning. They needed someone with super-strong pockets. Jacob Davis was that someone. In 1871, he hit upon an idea that would change A tiny, seemingly insignificant that would provide strength like pocket corners that would to the durability LIV BOEREE: The rivet, at least is taking forces that could be you know, like pockets that have a lot of pressure and sort of distributing it and protecting the material, of reinforcement so that the NARRATOR: Jacob Davis, had strong fabric purchased but he didn't have the money to buy the patent Levi Strauss was simply albeit a successful one. But his role was pivotal. Firstly, he stocked this new and secondly he had the means He bought the patent in 1873 Without Strauss, jeans may never DR. ARCHER: It's quite that these two people realised a hole in the market that enabled jeans It's not often that you think with the person who the material to come up So it's actually quite lucky and they made it work. NARRATOR: The new invention was originally known as Back in the day, the garments came that the copper rivets wouldn't when you sat down. And the promise if the jeans were to rip - such was the confidence In the early years, as seen in this vintage pair There's only one back pocket the smallest designed This pair were worn every day by a miner called He patched and padded them but underneath the original jeans With stories like this, no wonder jeans were We seem to have a never ending though the basic concept It's not very often that will last an entire century They did something nobody's found a way to improve NARRATOR: This small factory Every single pair is hand-made by one of these known here as 'Grand Masters'. The emergence of niche brands is a modern phenomenon. But such is the size the spectrum between and artisan luxury garments DAVID HIEATT: There's a lot just like there's geekiness There's plantation denim, there's the warp and the weft, And, there's some great and there's and people want to work or the finest Italian denim, NARRATOR: However and modify the various component the customer is relying on their and to be right for them. DR. SOMARA: There's great I don't have to worry about in a pair of jeans - I definitely feel comfortable. I feel like I'm myself If there's figure-hugging ones, or if they're like my then I just feel at home. NARRATOR: In the late there was no suggestion that was in any way stylish. Yet, Jacob Davis took the rust colour for the visible which complimented the copper it distinguished them from and became something in generic 'jeans' tailoring. Despite this nod to aesthetics, workwear design was, thanks to the strong cotton the target buyers not only gold prospecting but they were ranch-hands, These working men weren't they just wanted their clothing LIV BOEREE: it's absorbent, and so it whips and keeps us cool, but it's also breathable, and because it's just made out it's relatively cheap NARRATOR: But there was with one key aspect It was the colour blue thanks to as a cloth dye for and colour is important to us. PROF. WHYTE: The question of how of how you introduce dyes is one that goes back millenia, and one of the oldest ways was to use indigo. There are two ways one is woad which the ancient the other thing is to use the to the orient NARRATOR: The invention of jeans led to a massive increase which created the original Curiously the colour was given its name by Sir Isaac He had identified the seven but for the purposes of they all needed a name. Newton named the two 'new ones' DR. ARCHER: To me, which Isaac Newton it didn't used to exist u started talking And he wanted it to match so added an extra one in NARRATOR: Newton's inclusion of However, using a dark blue was a clever move it's a colour that clearly I think colour does have an a very subjective thing about There are certain colours that red for one we know it might mean warmth - So I think the same goes for and the word coolness associated It's hip, it's now, it's the and I think that's where we zero We get it. NARRATOR: One of the earliest used in its culture like this in a custom dating back over This family in Tamil Nadu, South India still produce indigo They cultivate the Indigofera which they harvest and then of water mixed with an alkaline Surprisingly, the water but the natural blue So, indigo is a fascinating dye because it's one of the that we can get NARRATOR: The liquid is by these workers, who add oxygen in the process which releases indigo pigment They skim off and then transfer the sediment It's boiled vigorously and then filtered The resulting derivative is the indigo dye, which is cut But it doesn't dissolve and must undergo a chemical LIV BOEREE: Because indigo is it requires chemical processes that's useful This produces waste products and these are bad for life. If you get them into the rivers They're also corrosive to pipes. And so this is the eternal is to find a way of making our to be without damaging NARRATOR: There had to be It was German chemist In 1905, he was awarded a Nobel work in deciphering the chemical Von Baeyer's work led him to for the precursor itself. PROF. WHYTE: It's the production pioneered in Germany, scale of colouring which most of the NARRATOR: Despite the change in nobody noticed a difference in the colour of their The target buyers of those early they bought this revolutionary and expansion in manufacturing The next step was to spread the appeal to the masses. And that happened I think what's interesting about a workman's trouser but then they became something They were so good, they were so that everybody started although they did become a bit NARRATOR: But the market until Hollywood In the 1920s and 30s, movie their cowboy heroes This gave jeans street cred and helped them to reach I think there's a particularly and that's about the American It's about the American dream of and the idea that all Americans, at least all white Americans NARRATOR: By the 1950s, one of the most famous cowboys John Wayne, clad in a more flattering cut of the original working man's Wayne personified the macho wild Now jeans appealed to the young, who wanted to show some But wearing jeans with a certain defiance Hollywood heart-throb James Dean in the movie He played the ultimate brooding and of course he was wearing In the 50s what you see is jeans like James Dean and this is a sign of their it's a sign of them as ordinary and it's a sign of youth. Everyone wants some of that. So jeans become a symbol of a symbol of everyone - NARRATOR: At the same time, the were breaking through... as Elvis Presley wiggled his amplifying the sex appeal ANJULA MUTANDA: If you think at the time they were coming out into somebody wearing jeans, All of this is about rebellion, it's about the birth of He's becoming a big star. Of course everybody wants It's really sexy - NARRATOR: Despite their growing and with America's youth, blue jeans were banned in theatres and schools. Even crooner and actor Bing entry to a smart hotel in Canada when he was dressed 'inappropriately'... Some countries like Russia the authorities believed they represented freedom As a result, ordinary Russians to get hold of a pair. European countries American soldiers stationed were seen off-duty Enterprising clothing traded 6 bottles of booze for 6 pairs of jeans which he set out to copy in his He imported denim and a European brand Celebrity endorsement fuels as it did in the past. As companies develop their own of this legendary nothing helps them more than a because their fans ANJULA MUTANDA: Wanting to is pretty much We always aspire to - how did they get there, I want some of that I want to feel what they feel, And I think when it's something like if I wear those jeans or I'll feel more positive, NARRATOR: And royalty somehow Orders sky-rocketed once a pair from the little Welsh factory had been modelled by one of the DAVID HIEATT: Suddenly Meghan and you go thank you universe, But it does change your company a lot more people in the world We didn't plan it, it was just a piece of luck. NARRATOR: For decades, we've taken female endorsement but it wasn't always so. Jeans played a crucial role of the sexes. It began by women daring or husband's jeans... when they had menial, like washing the car, PROF. WHYTE: There's a real about women wearing trousers - That caused tremendous anxiety and into the 20th century. Women wearing jeans in some respect and so again it's about women showing that held back by conventional NARRATOR: It wasn't as though weren't already wearing Pantaloons had been common and Asia for centuries. And even during the mid-1800s, wearing a garment which were particularly and horse riding. LIV BOEREE: I mean jeans are as someone who's ridden horses I know how important it is to protect your legs and jeans provide NARRATOR: But for the women wearing blue jeans for hard graft outdoors, soon morphed into a fashion Women were an untapped market and designers and advertisers Finally manufacturers recognised a potential new clientele In 1934, a 'working garment' They were aimed at women on but women were definitely not to in blue jeans and wearing them didn't mean I think that something like was a signal It's right at the forefront Clothes are politics They send out a particular and I think women behind that is driving to express themselves NARRATOR: Women weren't the only to change the future of jeans. In the early days, when the was aimed at labourers, bibbed were worn by America's slavery had theoretically been before the invention of jeans. Many had become tenant farmers a practice that lasted Ironically, one of their that fundamental element in the In the 1960s, when the American male and female marchers to demonstrate how little had since slavery In the 60s it is used by some movement to, in these dungarees, to recall slavery and to recall were the clothes that were You know denim was worn made to wear because they were the picking the cotton, doing all and they were wearing them now we were separate then They were making a very powerful NARRATOR: It was another step in rendering jeans the garment a potent symbol of equality of The 60s also brought flower People went to town creating customised, that reflected the chilled, Others played with bleaching when it became fashionable And the versatility of jeans I've done everything you can I've ripped them, I've added flares to them, I don't know why I did that - I've shredded them, NARRATOR: Jeans - became a vehicle for and creativity, and not just for humans i think I even made them so that I used to like dressing up my NARRATOR: In the 1970s, Punks would tear their jeans add safety pins and chains and frayed denim making jeans look considerably rougher and bringing a bit of It's a rebellion against It's a rebellion against neatly NARRATOR: It might have shocked that their innocuous of a subversive with young people challenging and wanting to exert And their invention, specifically designed not to ANJULA MUTANDA: I think what is about saying this is my identity and I'm and when we tend to see the is when we are teenagers from parents and we are wanting and everything to do with and being good becomes - well I want to throw that out And to tear something up is it's about what I want parents, work, whatever it is NARRATOR: In the 1980s, the marketing people on a mission to boost sales. This TV commercial stood out casting a good-looking model in a launderette - the 1950s production design of all-American jeans. The commercial was so it seems it was taken 'off-air', because the makers Despite the message there's a question about how I personally would have tried on to get the correct and if i wear them too much, and so washing them for me is kind of like hitting NARRATOR: There's also to shrink to fit. The theory is that if you wash and put them on they will shrink to fit And jeans have seen that you can rid your dirty by freezing them for a few days The smells that come from your breaking down all the 'goodness' and freezing them - freezes the bacteria but as soon as they warm up If you want to get rid of the then you need you could cook but then they'll probably and not so optimal either. Jeans have survived periods revolutions, world wars, the creation of other great They seem to have that they sort of become Obviously they've never but there are these sort of where jeans have sort of NARRATOR: Where does the jeans There are big questions over and the impact jeans is having on the planet. ANJULA MUTANDA: I think has costs to nature, to the natural world, and I think moving forward, it will be important sustainable materials, and how things can be recycled, because this is a fashion that's so if we can think about that's going to matter NARRATOR: Modern manufacturers to maintain the generally as a garment for the people. DAVID HIEATT: Making a pair of There's a lot of dyes, there's a lot of water... NARRATOR: Jeans manufacturing but there is a huge amount in the production process. Women tend to prefer a bit more The wash is just to help get the NARRATOR: Most manufacturers for a number of reasons, to make them more acceptable In this Indian factory, piles of jeans are loaded into industrial scale Soap powder is added Thousands of litres of water in one factory. Plus, denim is known for so it's washed to prevent that doesn't fit once they've The best thing you can do is not wash jeans. 80% of the impact and ironing our jeans. But look let's be honest, we're part of the problem - but with the lowest amount the lowest amount of water, The blue jean can be very green, NARRATOR: This company in is making compostable jeans, inspired to create functional for their factory workers. They use which requires The linen from flax another plant-based fibre, to The fabric is dyed and the garments are entirely They don't use rivets, and the only thing that doesn't is the metal buttons, but they Composting takes just Jeans can also be successfully I like making recycled things. That's actually a great thing into all kinds of different NARRATOR: But for denim that is into another piece of clothing, this recycling programme in the shreds millions and compacts them into bales Then it's down to to use it in construction. The global success and enduring has been immeasurable. Jeans are the great leveller - the clothing of the people - and the clothing of choice PROF. WHYTE: Jeans are because they're the great everyone can wear them, NARRATOR: Intended to clothe that wouldn't rip at the pockets they've turned into a fashion A globally popular, that it's impossible to imagine ANJULA MUTANDA: I think jeans they look great, they're sturdy, and they're almost peerless NARRATOR: Image-makers as an all-American story, but in fact jeans are the that provided the raw material for a once obscure American and his supplier who had the (dramatic music) Over millions of years, evolution Its seed is large and heavy. Insects or winds cannot spread it. - Evolution is brilliant They develop the spikes and that meant that when like a deer or a dog or something, it will then hook on to that animal and get carried by that animal far away, eventually dropping off and then that's where that seed can grow. So, an ingenious solution (dramatic music) - [Narrator] 1941, war rages in Europe, but not in neutral Switzerland. Here lives a man, an engineer, who goes hunting together with his dog, not suspecting that he's about to make an historical discovery, - The invention of the is a fascinating bit of serendipity. Its inventor, George De Mestral, was just out walking his dog one day and they walked past some burdock. (dramatic music) And when he got home, he were absolutely covered in from the burdock. And he wondered how has that stuff stayed attached to me and my dog? You know, its been defying gravity, the dogs been rolling around on the floor and this stuff is still attached. And so he decided in that moment to take a look at this (ominous music) - [Narrator] What does the inventor see? Incredible potential. Unexpected possibilities, thanks to the hook-and-loop Fastener. - So, hook and loops, I suppose, anything that you just and then put back on again. - [Narrator] It's impossible without the hook-and-loop fastener. It's everywhere, so common - So, it really has just permeated every single corner of our lives. - [Narrator] For example, - The hook-and-loop because it spreads the force and it doesn't pull undone easily. - [Narrator] Also the lives - The hook and loop for securing and fastening things than most of us really realize. - [Narrator] People who can't use buttons are dependent on the And, thanks to it, free. In 1941, there is still a long way to go until today's hook-and-loop fasteners. The inventor doesn't know of any materials he could reproduce the plant with. - The actual burdock kind of model of the hooking onto the fabric couldn't have been done that they were using in the 1940s. - [Narrator] No raw material that is available in Switzerland seems to be suitable for De Mestral starts to But he still has no chance. - Even if somebody had the idea of the hook-and-loop fastener earlier, it still wouldn't have been because you need the materials that the hook-and-loop - [Narrator] What De he can't yet find. It's only available to in the United States. A material discovered in the laboratory of a chemical factory in - They were run almost for a university. And although they had one thing they had was the And Friday afternoon experiments have become kind of legendary Is that Friday afternoon is a time when maybe you can try out just to see if it will work. - [Narrator] On a Friday in 1935 in an experiment of this kind, researchers created a in the fashion and textile industry today. Nylon. - The American military had access to it. Anything that was used for the war effort was massively controlled using rationing. And one of the things that in this period was nylon. So, you hear stories, for example, about American soldiers being really popular with British girls because they would bring from the States. - [Narrator] Chemical silk, Cheap to produce and very durable. In war time, nylon is invaluable. - He got these viscous gloops, these strange, honey-like materials. These were polymers. Polymers long-chained if you remove the solvent, you could draw them out This was the beginning of - [Narrator] The war is over. For more than six years, many goods used by the Now the time for rationing is over. And nylon products are Brush 'em up and brush 'em down Keep your choppers clean and sound Help your teeth to stay around Until you're old and gray - [Narrator] Nylon quickly especially for the Then comes the breakthrough, as an important component - [Announcer] Stockings, but watch. On the leg, they stretch - Nylon tights became the best thing and very very rapidly this but very cheap material had spread to clothes, to parachutes. Nylon was truly a (rustic music) - [Narrator] Lyon, France, the late 1940s. The first place in Europe where nylon is processed on a large scale. - A lot of the big fashion houses in Paris were still running and they had to have access to fabric. And so, the Lyon industry was supported by the occupying forces to keep the Parisian So, in the 1940s, if you were looking for a center of industry and weaving and technology, Lyon is one of the few places that's still really functioning as a center for textile production. - [Narrator] Designers and manufacturers from all over the world Including George de Mestral. He's still looking for a way to reproduce the burdock - George de Mestral talked obviously, whose craft is And he worked very and they tried first to develop a hook-and-loop fastener in cotton. And they had several attempts at this before deciding that cotton so it couldn't sustain the hook and loop. - [Narrator] With cotton, produce a hook-and-loop fastener. But the hooks don't stay in Experiments are carried out Also, with nylon. When the chemical silk is heated, this brings the breakthrough. - The key thing with nylon is that it turns out at which you need to heat it to soften it is not all that high, when it cools down, it And so, what this meant was in order to be able to but once you cooled them down, you actually had quite a robust link. And of course, you don't just make one. If you make 10.000, then the in an extraordinary way. - [Narrator] Nylon enables the production of the first hook-and-loop fastener. That material, which was Many important innovations date back to this time. Walkie-talkies or ready-made food, as it is available in The hook-and-loop fastener but has nothing to do with In 1951 George de Mestral Seven years later, also in the USA. - When you look at the patent, its not just for the its for machines that make the hook-and-loop fastener, as well. So, its really important to him not to just have a prototype, but to have some way of - [Narrator] The patent Part one explains how to The other part, how to form the hooks on the other side of the hook-and-loop Fastener. The 1950s begin. Rock'n'Roll is the soundtrack of the first post-war generation. It's a wild time, with the that is known. A shortage of raw material are no longer an issue. The inventor grants for his product, which A composition from the and crochet for hooks. - But actually, now, lots are able to make hook-and-loop fasteners. The American licensee To this day, there are countries in which the Velcro fastener But companies all over the world produce hook-and-loop fasteners. - Its amazing how the has really become so ubiquitous. I think, probably the was to tie up the USB cable - [Narrator] Serial production begins in the United States. But the potential customers Wanted, a marketing campaign to sell the hook-and-loop fastener. (triumphant music) Easier and faster, and cords or the zipper. That's the manufacturer's message. - When they got the American patent, nobody knew anything about it. And what they did was, to write about the hook-and-loop fastener. And she called it the &quot;Zipperless zipper,&quot; which I think is this great phrase and said that it was going about clothing and make - [Narrator] At that time, reached up to 40 million Her article makes the hook-and-loop - This marketing campaign and that was a very clever thing to do because he's getting people involved in it from the kind of fashion industry to talk about how it will and then at the same time, thinking about how it might - [Narrator] A short time later, the technology came into the view of a powerful governmental organization in the United States. NASA. (rocket blasts off) During the Cold War, the Americans want to constantly improve their space technology, to be one step ahead of the Soviet Union and win the race to the moon. (dramatic music) NASA is looking for ways to make the lives of astronauts in weightlessness The hook-and-loop fastener for the American space program. For example, as part of - Hook-and-loop fasteners in very extreme environments. They maintain their shape to stick up to very high temperatures and even to incredibly low temperatures and actually, that's There's a safety aspect as well with hook-and-loop fasteners. The failure rate of things is actually way way higher And that's not just you or me that's actually something - [Narrator] The and in the lunar module, pinned to the wall in weightlessness with hook-and-loop fasteners. In the command unit of the more than 2000 square are in use. Flying to the moon, a specially made, fireproof hook-and-loop fastener. Without it maybe we would never - The hook-and-loop fastener has even been to the moon The astronauts, while would use it to attach that they were using to and then, when they got outside, their spacesuits, all with the hook-and-loop fastener. Their samples when they you'd seal it with a - [Narrator] Hook-and-loop fasteners hold together even stronger when subjected to vibrations like bows, for example. - The only disadvantage they if they were on, for example, or even in some place on a moon buggy, then the hook-and-loop with moon dust. - [Narrator] Dust hook-and-loop fasteners still - Of course there's lots and that makes most of the dust. The dust floats around all in space, and then when you do rip off some of whatever it is you want from your hook you get a bit of a sprinkling Now, you could argue, perhaps we should have cleaned the dust out ourselves beforehand. It just sort of somehow attracts itself to the hook and loops, but that's the same in shoes, of course. You take off your muddy shoes and the mud stays in the hook and loops, but nonetheless you can clean Brilliant! - [Narrator] The hook-and-loop fastener significantly supports humankind At the same time, the inventor - Most people don't know the real story behind the invention of In fact, they think it And the main reason for that as being all over the Apollo 11 mission. (rocket blasts off) - [Narrator] Even today, it's impossible to imagine space travel without All astronauts associate a lot with it. In 1991, Helen Sharman is who is not from the - Helen Sharman is a very I remember watching her on when she was on the MIR space station. She's amazing. - An agreement was made and a British company to and I applied for that job. - [Narrator] The chemist goes And, afterwards, researches on the Russian space station, MIR. - On the MIR station on the walls we had great big patches of the loops part of the hook-and-loop fastening and almost wherever there would be like a wallpaper actually of the soft bit of the hook and loops. And then everything we with a tiny little a small square of the hooks, but that was sewn on or or to the actual tool that we had. And then whenever we I could hardly really say put it down because there was no down, but when we wanted to secure something, we could just put it on the wall. - [Narrator] A peanut butter This only works in weightlessness if you can position the various jars. So, in space, both the have hook-and-loop fasteners. Most of these technical devices with hook-and-loop fasteners. Today, they are safer, on board the International Space Station than their forebears from the 1960s. - A lot of the astronauts nowadays have the loop part on their thighs, and so if you want to stick something to your clothing, you can use hook-and-loop - [Narrator] Here, on Earth, the fireproof hook-and-loop fasteners used by space travelers in the suits of racing whose heroic efforts would be even more difficult without them. (flames crackling) - Hook-and-loops fastener in the context of fire, as well. So, firefighters they often all over their jackets. So, its really obviously important that they be fire-resistant. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Most everyday do not have to be fireproof. Even though they are now produced for lots of extreme situations. Hook-and-loop fasteners and also adhesive fasteners for diapers. In this German factory, But many hook-and-loop fasteners even though they are always close by. They secure the seat covers on airplanes and are in many more places where hardly anyone would suspect them. - Actually being used like cars and planes to stick these parts of very different materials together. - [Narrator] And the in the middle of the (industrious music) Here, the nylon threads are processed. - In clothing and textiles, nylon is still the after cotton in the industry. - [Narrator] Various modern hook-and-loop fasteners. But the basis remains. Half of the loops are cut through. This is how the hooks are created. And thanks to the nylon, they are so strong that until you remove them (upbeat music) An eternal classic. But new times need new connections. Even stronger. How could the ingenious be developed even further? Once again, it is the that has a decisive influence on the development, Mother Nature. Mushrooms. Their shape is the basis for a completely new type (ominous music) Hard to open. Enormously secure. The mushroom hook-and-loop fastener, just by having a different shape, it makes a much stronger bond than the ones we're Obviously, the ones in clothing to kind of on and off very easily. The mushroom shape with that strength allows it to be very versatile in just sticking lots of things together and ensuring that it doesn't come off. - [Narrator] Every day, in means of transport in which the hook-and-loop In the wall coverings of And on buses. The ceilings and cover of cars. All this, fastened with mushroom - The hook and loop for securing and fastening things than most of us really realize. - [Narrator] Mushroom are also changing the production processes for local and long-distance transport. (man speaking in foreign language) - At the time when buses screws and pipes, it took three workers a total of about eight hours Today, with the modern mushroom-in-mushroom technology, two workers need just 30 minutes and a complete bus has This reduces the costs for (waves crashing) - [Narrator] Here, its its about human lives. Two thirds of the earth's an untameable element. The sea level is rising Scientists say that flooding in the future. That's when the hook-and-loop fastener could be an aid to protection. - So actually having a that is waterproof means it's put more sand in et cetera, but also to connect the bags together to make a much stronger wall. But also makes it a lot So waterproof hook-and-loop fasteners, there's real potential there. - [Narrator] Experiments are underway with waterproof hook-and-loop fasteners. Thanks to them, sandbags and made refillable. Firmly connected, a (That's unfastening) How a hook-and-loop fastener its usually sewn on. But what about hard surfaces? There are high-tech that can attach the hook-and-loop and which hold in tropical (man speaking in foreign language) - These are special requirements for example, with regard Long-term, how long should it be in use? Weather resistance, is this compound exposed to? The temperature range is very important. Do I work in an environment is 50 degrees, 100 degrees, Or do I go into arctic temperatures, minus 50, minus 60, minus 70 degrees? And that is very important for - [Narrator] Where there is Welding or soldering can damage material. Cables are impractical Our world is so fast and Industry is looking for a new Those things that connect us. Maybe a technology inspired (ominous music) - Oh, that's interesting. - Perhaps it was glued. Whatever it is, it's very strong. - This is really weird. Its two little bits of copper and they seem like they're But actually, in that gap, apparently, there's a hook-and-loop fastener. (grunts) Can't get them apart. - [Narrator] The connection can't be seen under a Huge metal hook-and-loop fasteners that can carry enormous loads, this is what scientists at various universities are researching. This is about something else, an abstract further of the hook-and-loop fastener. It is so strong that a without any problem. And even more. (speaking in foreign language) - In reality, the piece of metal that we have joined together is capable of lifting an entire elephant. - [Narrator] The secret is a mixture of chemistry and electricity. The so-called galvanic process. Electric shocks are put through As a result, tiny hairs which fit together like hooks and loops in hook-and-loop fasteners. The individual tiny hairs have a diameter of between 30 nanometers 1000 microns is one millimeter. Very small. - What you have here is a method of fastening things together that doesn't require any or deforming them in any way other than by creating the hooks and loops. So it's a very precision technique for joining things together but it can also be used where your surfaces are very sensitive and you don't want to be that you don't have to. - [Narrator] German students to the hook-and-loop then founded a company. With modern technology, every step in the process is monitored. Under normal microscopes, the You need an Electron Scanning Microscope. Then you can see how like a lawn, how the parts fit together, like the two sides of a In microchip technology, should become unnecessary if conductive parts can be easily stacked with a micro-hook-and-loop fastener. But one thing this very made of metal is not The connection should be able to withstand a load of over six tons. This can only be checked The two copper plates are connected with a micro hook-and-loop fastener. If the technology is to and even more sensitive devices, it must be absolutely secure. And it is. Except, of course, when an elephant weighing several tons steps on the phone. - This isn't what you'd normally think of when you think about attaching doing up your shoes, but actually, the same principle can be applied to all kinds of different materials. Even something like this. - The most successful bionic invention is being developed further. The young man has adhesive that do not adhere to every surface. And again, nature is the The gecko's feet, which but come off without leaving any residue. - What they have on those hands is just thousands of That gives a really big surface area that it's able to bring in contact, almost atomically close to the wall. What's happening is these known as Van der Waal's forces, they're not incredibly strong, but because you've got so it all adds up. And that's how something as big as a gecko is able to, through atomic - [Narrator] A human is no problem for this bionic technology which would probably without hook-and-loop fastener. George de Mestral's idea, it lives on in places and objects, which he himself probably A triumph but one which has (upbeat music) The view into another On the catwalks, for example, at the big fashion the hook-and-loop fastener than in people's everyday lives. Most of the time, it's invisible. The hook-and-loop Fastener the relationship has In the 1960s, the world sees At first, many designers find the futuristic closure exciting. - When it was first invented it had this real kind of So, you have designers like who are working with new and the hook-and-loop fastener - [Narrator] The Apollo program and everything that has to do with it is a popular topic in schools. Children and teenagers by everything to do with the moon landing. (upbeat music) The whole world is talking and the heroes on the moon. - I grew up with this idea that big things really are possible. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] The famous photo The hook-and-loop fastener are clearly visible. No physics class takes place This enthusiasm of entire generations also finds its way into fashion. - Space was fashionable. Space exploration was interesting, it was what was going on in the world and the technologies that were also interesting and fashionable. Weave talked about the use the use of the hook-and-loop Its this kind of new - [Narrator] The moon trip as the best possible marketing campaign. - The special thing about the moon landing is the immense challenge that it posed back in that time, in the '60s, when technology was not so and yet that challenge was relished, that challenge was overcome and that challenge inspired the world. And it was witnessed by the world. - [Narrator] A look at fashion You would expect the to be visible everywhere. But one hardly sees it. The reason is actually quite obvious. It's enormously practical. From the designers' not particularly chic. This is also because of the (Velcro unfastening) - When you open it, the makes a really specific And, you know, maybe that's fine and you don't notice it, but if you are trying to in a more formal setting, at a formal event and all as you undo the hook-and-loop fastener, that's maybe not so nice. It might be considered to be kind of spoiling the moment. - [Narrator] Over the years, has conquered its place Secretly. - Now its moved to a rather than a kind of objective So, you might not see it, but it is there. Its particularly there that are maybe more sportswear-orientated, but normally, I think you see And therefore, the purpose of a fastener is that its not seen. It has a practical function. - [Narrator] A prominent exception is the American musician Kanye West. A trademark of his sporty are the oversized hook-and-loop fasteners. His vests are made mainly of them. But recently, the hook-and-loop fastener has had another image problem. Nylon enjoys an Chemical silk is no a good reason for discussion - But nylon is of course a And we're trying to cut down the usage on single-use plastics and so that is an issue for How are we gonna do that (futuristic music) - [Narrator] Alternative materials are still often more expensive. But as a plastic, even the is facing uncomfortable times. Sometimes it remains indispensable. After all, what counts in space travel is also relevant on earth Modern hook-and-loop fasteners on clothing can be closed and undone before they wear out. It is precisely this durability that makes the hook-and-loop in perhaps its most important Some medical treatments without this invention. (upbeat music) Hook-and-loop fasteners Children whose motor skills are not yet developed enough to tie bows. Their solution is called - For children that's what the hook-and-loop fastener gives them. If they can take their own clothes off or put their own shoes on, it helps them to feel of what's going on. And they go through a stage where they're very independent at that age and all they want to do is to be able to do so that is a crucial part - [Narrator] Everything in different sizes that needs to be fastened. - If you think about a neck brace, the way that's held on is with When your doctor puts around your arm to measure again, hook-and-loop fastener. Its a perfect technology, Both, because it's very saying it stays in place where you put it, and it's also very So, you know, it doesn't you can basically use the for almost everybody. - [Narrator] People with disabilities are dependent on the For some, it's the only way - Hook-and-loop fasteners particularly in clothing, you know. If we're using things that necessarily needs two hands, they're quite complicated to operate. A hook-and-loop fastener, so simple. You can do with one hand or even no hands because as long as you can you form the seal. And so that's actually really useful for people with disabilities who maybe don't have the use of both hands or don't have two hands anymore. - [Narrator] There are many that prevent people from using Just tying a bow or closing (golf club strikes a golf ball) People who are missing limbs are particularly dependent on Gerd Schonfelder, aged and four fingers of his left To enable him to grip, a toe Nevertheless, he is one of in the world. Schonfelder won 16 gold medals between 1992 and 2010. He uses the hook-and-loop fastener daily. Be it on clothes, to or for his hobbies. Golf, for example. Sport was the way to But how exactly can a one-armed man, with only one original finger, play golf? A medical miracle. No. Just the hook-and-loop fastener. Schonfelder has made a for him to practice almost There are many stories like his. Without hook-and-loop fasteners, far fewer would have a happy ending. (speaking in foreign language) - Actually, a very simple band with a flap with a hook-and-loop fastener function, where you can simply pull Wide, so that it also holds well. And above all, also with the teeth, quite an important thing the teeth have to replace the second hand, without also hurting your teeth. In itself, very simple. - [Narrator] A very good golf handicap thanks to the hook-and-loop fastener, and the special backhand stroke technique. (upbeat music) The hook-and-loop fastener wristband can be used for almost every stroke sport. People like Gerd Schonfelder need the hook-and-loop fastener, not only in sports, but in almost every situation in life. (speaking in foreign language) - After I get up I put on my watch and it works with I slip into it, similar to put it like this, once but then the watch is on. And holds very well. (speaks in foreign language) You can also adjust it in width, in winter you can wear it over your jacket if you need the watch all the time. So, its a great thing. Or, of course, sneakers with you also do a lot with with ski boots. - [Narrator] Inclusion, with disabilities in normal life. An invention of nature and even more. Human leisure time. Here, too, the hook-and-loop fastener has long had its place. At any temperature. In every element. (engine roars) Especially popular, catch and throw with the hook-and-loop fastener disc. A million-dollar game idea. - You might have also seen those big walls and if you wear a you kind of do a jump, and stick to a wall. So there's lots of fun - [Narrator] And how about - What? these Australian comedians live in a world completely made (audience laughing) - Maybe not sport. Dancing. All right, dancing, go for it. (Velcro unfastening) (audience laughing) (man in red exclaims) (audience laughing) - That's good, that looks fun. - [Narrator] But what would a world without hook-and-loop fastener look like? Hard to imagine. It would probably be based on buttons, bows and magnets. (ominous music) For space travel, we would have thought Whether independence and as it is without hook-and-loop fasteners, that remains questionable. - So, its really difficult to think, what would the world be like without it, because its so much a So, you don't think of this maybe, but if you've ever used an umbrella, then the little bit that when you're not using it, is almost always a So, it has become very much maybe without us even realizing it. (plastic containers colliding) - [Narrator] And what does the future hold when plastic gradually disappears Will it be a world without nylon, a world without the - I think that it will exist in some form in a 100 to 150 years' time because it fulfills such Its so much a part of our everyday life that we won't be able to get away from it. - [Narrator] The first have already been taken. Tiny little hook-and-loop Perhaps they will become even smaller or made of living, organic material. Self-regenerating. Forms which we are experimenting with and which we can hardly imagine. - So maybe hook and loop fasteners will be made out of other materials, materials that we need to invent to be more environmentally conscious. - [Narrator] A plant that's where it all began. It has made life more practical. (triumphant music) It makes us stronger. Faster. It opens up the world. And space. - The time was right. We had all these new technologies, we had these new materials. - Its such an important and yet we totally take it for granted. - I'd like to think that we as a species that we would to the problem, but it would - [Narrator] It spreads joy, stays strong when it gets serious, provides protection. George de Mestral lived until 1990 and applied for many more patents before and after the - But what's really interesting about him, is that he actually and not just the hook-and-loop fastener. So, in his New York Times obituary, his wife is quoted as saying, &quot;One of the best things he and this was apparently the asparagus peeler, when he invented it, But nobody remembers him for that now. (triumphant music) - [Narrator] But his idea after when the burdock bothered him, is one of the greatest (birds chirping) (Velcro unfastening) (epic music)