Hello everyone from Rita and welcome to my you tube Rita Chef Channel. Today we prepare together the classic Christmas dessert, the PANETTONE with candied fruit and raisins. This version of my panettone is truly extraordinary, the process is done entirely by hand and thanks to the phases of this process, we will obtain a wonderful result, a fragrant, soft, and very, very honeycomb panettone. Follow the video recipe step by step . Before going to the kitchen, I remind you to subscribe to the channel, if you are not yet subscribed, to share my video recipes with your friends and to click on the bell to receive notifications of my next videos. Let's start preparing the leavening with water, Manitoba flour with 15.5 grams of protein and w 460, sugar and fresh yeast ... all the weights are written in the infobox under the video. I dissolve yeast and sugar in water and now add the stone marten. Now we cover it with film and let it double in volume ... depending on the room temperature we can leave it for 30 minutes to an hour. The leavening in 30 minutes at 25 deg has tripled in volume. Now let's start preparing the first dough: in the largest bowl there is the Manitoba flour , then water, sugar, butter, eggs. I pour the water and sugar, the egg, the leaven and we knead ... I'm kneading by hand but if you want you can knead in the planetary mixer proceeding in the same way. Now let's start adding the soft butter. The dough is soft soft but begins to detach well from the walls ... continue for another 5 minutes. The first dough is ready now we cover it with the film and a temperature of 25 deg we let it double in volume. While the dough is rising, let's prepare the aromas. In the small bol you see zest of lemon orange and organic mandarin, then vanilla powder as an alternative to vanilla powder, you can use vanilla extract, and then honey. We cover the film and put it in the fridge until ready for use. Let's prepare the last dough of our panettone. The first dough in two hours at 25 deg has tripled in volume ... Now in the largest bowl we put the butter and sugar and work until you get a cream. We add a whole egg and a yolk I remind you that all the weights are written in the info box under the video now we add the previously prepared aromas and now we can add the flour we got a very fragrant cream now let's add the first dough We work by hand ... I repeat that you can proceed with the preparation of this panettone also with the planetary mixer. After 10 minutes add the raisins, well washed, soaked in water and rum, then well squeezed Now we add the candied orange, Now we cover the bowl with plastic wrap and we will make three turns of folds at a distance of twenty minutes each 'other. With your hand lightly greased with butter, make the first round of folds in the bowl. We cover the dough and we will repeat the same thing in twenty minutes. We are on the second round, always with an oily hand, We cover again and let it rest for another 20 minutes. We are on the third round of folds, but we do the latter on the work surface. With a little bit of butter I grease the table, a soft fluffy dough .... First we fold then pirliamo. The panettone is ready I put it in a classic 1 kg paper mold now we cover the mold with the film and wait for that mixture to touch the edge of the mold. At 25 deg after 5 hours the panettone is ready. we have to engrave the surface and put it like butter Now we bake in a preheated oven in static mode at 160 deg with the resistance at the bottom for about 50 minutes The freshly baked panettone ... now you have to skewer it with a pin or as in my case with skewers of bamboo and turn it upside down. I cover it completely and let it cool for at least four hours. Finally we can see the result of our panettone ... It has a fantastic alveolation ... it is soft and very fragrant Well put LIKE, SUBSCRIBE to my channel if you are not yet subscribed, SHARE my video recipes with your friends and CLICK on the bell to receive notifications of my next videos. A big hug to all of you from RITA.