Transcriber: Take A Mile Thank you. In the small but worldwide I'm enough of an expert and speak at a lot of conferences. And in my formal life, I got to use math everyday. For about the last 15 years helping as many teachers as possible meet the needs of more students So what's Jungian type? How many of you have taken In most rooms, most people have. Some even remember their four letter code. A few of those remember what it means, and even fewer had the chance I have been studying it for 20 years. It's a rich theory of human and every year, we find My most recent research has involved-- studying students doing math. We filmed about 100 students, look for patterns in what they did, and saw whether they had any correlations Meanwhile, my good colleague, was hooking students up to EEGs and running them and looking for the same kind of patterns. And I can say with confidence There are eight kinds of brains, but what's more important to us today is that the insights and images really help teachers understand the very different needs of students What does it mean Well, just to start, I was running an intervention for some very active, And part way through the intervention one of the girls &quot;Oh my gosh, we've been doing math That's what we need, if we're going to move kids So before we dig into the research, It's a framework for understanding - Whoops! We need to back up! - how they gain energy, how they make decisions, I saw the biggest differences looking at the math research. So that's what we'll spend But the way we do Just like we're right or left-handed, But we can use both. No good basketball coach is going to You are going to learn to use both, And in school, students all the psychological preferences. But we' ll be looking at students and looking at what happens when we give them a little boost So, to get at this idea of energy which has been all over everything else this week, I guess they haven't been listening We split kids into two groups, &quot;If you think you're extroverted, if you think you're introverted and draw your ideal classroom.&quot; - Whoops! It's jumping ahead on me. - There we go. So, the extroverts: those circles are chairs so they can bounce their energy out. The green squiggly line is the maze they weren't in the healthy schools. There's a Burger King, a track, a swimming pool, You get the idea? Meanwhile, an introverted group &quot;Don't we each get I said, &quot;Deal with it.&quot; So, they each drew their own classrooms spacious, calm, energy Of course, most classrooms have and a teacher who needs to be energized. This theory helps them figure out and then negotiate Second pair of preferences are sensing and intuition. People who prefer sensing get but their five senses can tell them, Those who prefer intuition, get their information through hunches, So what differences Well, in the 100 students I filmed not one sensing student used the numbers not even the one who had the highest They drew pictures; used manipulatives. Sometimes they'd say, &quot;My pictures are right, and checked with numbers. Intuitives, they used numbers whether adding, subtracting, calculating. Sometimes they'd say, but I don't think my picture And sometimes it didn't. They use the wrong color tiles, none of the sensing type made Sometimes, they'd be talking about 12 They really don't see Even more important, Two thirds of the sensing kids Even though we put everything out - the paper, the tiles, the markers - not a big deal; over half to try the problems in a certain way, saying things like, &quot;Can I use six tiles? They didn't want to proceed unless they were sure they were on track The more insecure they were the less likely they were to go forward without knowing they were Extroverted intuitives assumed permission. They said, &quot;I can use this, right? Not one introverted intuitive That's my preferences. My parents So already we've got they make different kinds of mistakes; and they have a different affinity for concrete versus Before I show you I want to just introduce He works at UCLA; he's been hooking Having them in the lab for 2 to 3 hours, just a 15 minutes shot He has them do math problems, but also wordplays, He tried speed dating, but that turned out to be related (Laughter) And he saw the same big patterns And by the way, we both assessed type by doing lengthy teaching to the students about what these concepts mean, so it's not just a paper and pencil Dario was taking the patterns and overlaying them against that are well documented in neuroscience. And I won't be talking I am going to be looking that he saw on the brains. But when you look at these regions, When we're listening, when we're doing math problems, there're only two types The rest of us fake it We can all learn to use it, and in fact you'll see variations but there're phenomenal correlations So let's see what this looks like A sixth-grader, about a year behind that was a quarter red And here's his first attempt. If he'd kept going But he went back and he read &quot;Oh, now I'm starting to get it.&quot; He drew this because the example He was using the reality of the example So he put the sheet over, Then he read the problem again and said, &quot;Now I got it. I need And he drew this one. I called it &quot;Purposeful trial and error.&quot; He made something; he read he made something else, going He didn't need help; he just needed time. You can see there's just that almost looks black on each region, and the right shows just slightly on Dario calls this the tennis hop. You know how players stand that's what their brains are doing, waiting for something to happen He was drawing things Two things: when I show the whole film &quot;How many of you wanted to help him saying, 'Oh honey. You know, And he didn't need help; Once another teacher said, &quot;We don't have time for kids To which another teacher replied, &quot;So we don't have time And there's some truth in that. In the research we have, these students are over-represented Regular school doesn't work for them. There're also underrepresented teachers, so their voices are missing One other thing: you think would use the tiles instead of drawing. I asked him out in the hall and he said, Our teachers tell us not to When we rush students from the concrete here's something to keep in mind. In Dario's brain lab, these kids when they were looking out the window than when they were doing If you really want to get give them manipulatives I was helping out in the classroom, and some of these kids were zoning out, using these little strips &quot;Why don't you come up to the front?&quot; And we've got these huge magnetic strips Guess what? Can you say engagement? The teacher couldn't believe once they could move around, &quot;No it's three fourths. Intuitives don't need As my son put it, &quot;What do I when I can see the fractions in my head?&quot; Here's an example where pictures The sensing teacher had drawn why sevenths are smaller than fourths, The kids said, &quot;It doesn't help at all.&quot; And the teacher started while the students started calculating. And in a little bit, &quot;OK. I calculated it 1/4 would be 7/28. 1/7 would be 4/28. That makes sense.&quot; Sensing types trust reality. When kids don't get it, Here's another holistic pattern. What Dario calls it &quot;The Christmas Tree,&quot; When they're brainstorming, starts firing asynchronously, They need lots of ideas; you can see in each region of the brain I remember one girl during the filming that was a quarter red She's talking about &quot;Wait, we could use percentages; It's like a foursquare court.&quot; Finally, all of the sudden and made the correct shape. They need nonlinear methods Procedures can actually be a disaster if they don't have Here's what other papers look like. Up at the top here, you can see although she had to She was not paying close attention Then she did all of this, trying to make a bigger shape that was still a quarter red She tried adding, she tried and all of the sudden, it dawned on her was add on to the other Then, when she started which involved thirds and sixths, making the bigger shape as well She made the connection from the fourth The sensing kids didn't want It was if they were telling us, &quot;Well, I get that it works with fourths. You can tell me I can just double it Show me how to do it again.&quot; Intuitives trust their leaps; As a matter of fact, it's really difficult to break into and get them back on track. But we often see it as smart, right? All of us get this when we're in flow, but introverted intuitives get It's Dario's and my brain pattern, and we joke that this means Sorry about that, but what's going on and I think an answer will pop And if we've got enough the answer really does pop. They need a blackout too much going on and they can't do this, As a matter fact, the more a lot of time the worst they get; Here's what I mean These films are boring to watch. They just sit there staring at the problem they may be counting little bit, &quot;Oh, oh. I get it,&quot; I was watching this &quot;Where did that come from? She couldn't figure that out on her own.&quot; Yes she could; they just need the time, One of other big patterns, because the introverted sensing students, They actually love practicing and they seem to burn in whatever their expertise is. So whether they're violinists you can see how they learned it very different from the most And I saw this in an intervention. For example one time we had students rolling dice And the fractions they were to write down on a whiteboard Just a different way of practicing. Two introverted sensing girls maybe 30 problems &quot;Do you think you've got this? Should we move on to something else?&quot; Meanwhile, there was I checked his five mandatory problems; I knew this child pretty well and I said, &quot;I think you know how to do this I need to see five correct, and then Sure enough I came back over; He engaged in the next level that I let him teach They all had a great time. I've been in schools where nearly introversion and sensing, that the way students And that's true for students like them. Other students need or the Christmas tree so they can make those connections, the blues where almost nothing happening There's more brain patterns so I want to finish with this story. At the end of the fractions, when we're doing this filming project, to see which of the major fractions The columns show whether they got on the assessment, and then the colors show how much So the green kids were good to get showed varying levels One of the teachers said, What if just this once by both type and level of knowledge? Would it make a difference?&quot; And it did. This teacher said it was the highlight He had a group of sensing students The intuitive students on this concept of going to mixed numbers and back again doing all kinds of activities They came back in the next day, &quot;You want to do more?&quot; and they said, &quot;We could do this in our sleep. Sensing group: four days really about the same level of ability, but everyday after that, when they came &quot;Can we do more problems? They even taught the principal how to go and even more important, they started coming sitting up front, pencil sharpened, The teacher said, &quot;What if someone on a concept back in first grade? The highlight of his teaching career. You see those sheep up I had just climbed a similar hill specially after a rainstorm, So I turned to my colleagues and said, to the top of the hill? And he told me that as far as they know they simply like the taste Our students have those same kinds and how they tackle learning. And when they don't get it, we have to help them tackle it I can say with confidence that Jungian type is that helps us to do just that. Thank you. (Applause)