We are now stranded on and there goes our boat. We are now stranded for seven days. - How much longer? Frick. This raft is literally countless from the nearest civilization. And whether we like it or not, my four friends and I And it's not going to be easy. It won't stop raining! This challenge went from fun Very fast. Bro, look how far away the boat is. I can't even see it anymore. So, step one. We're going to get sunburned And I had survival specialists equip this raft with tons of wood, We would need to build ourselves Boys, we need to get started. I got this. My finger! Now, we set these up like a teepee. We picked the worst day to start. As you can tell by the clouds, it's So, first thing we want to do Also, since we're on this slab of wood we need a place to hide so we don't get sunburned. So two birds, one stone. Speaking of birds, - this happened. - It's coming right at us! Yes! This is crazy. - We should name him. Bryan. Bryan. Bryan. Bryan. What if you went and got some fish? I know, he's looking at me. - Jimmy, just say the word. - Okay. I'll put the knife away. Bryan, that was a joke. Forget the bird. - We're making friends. We worked on our first shelter Except for my friend Tareq, who spent the entire day And I'm not even mad about it. Inside this crate is the food for all five of us for the next seven days. Oh, my God. And in these two barrels is our entire water supply How does it taste? Very hot. We're screwed. There was dirt in my cup. It's getting dark, and that crate Hopefully, the survival guides - Why are they wet? I'm ready for bed. This is night one, This is miserable. This is all the coverage we have. I didn't realize what I was This thing will not stop swaying, And I'm surrounded by a bunch Aye, sweaty men. If you guys what are you going Oh, gosh. Our first night of sleep Sleeping is impossible. These waves are just making me And to make matters worse, leaving us that morning. -Bryan! Bryan! But regardless, today's a permanent weatherproof shelter. How do we turn that There's definitely something here. Luckily, I had them throw so we could build a nice house. How we build the house? I'm not quite sure, but they said But ironically, - It's raining! Jimmy, get my shark pillow! This is miserable! This is bad. Oh, Jesus Christ. You're not doing - Listen with your ears! - Because you don't listen! - It's just rain. At least we don't have to shower. Yeah. This is so bad. And we still have over Where do we go poop? - Oh, we have to build the pooper. -We have to build everything We have to build the toilet. Build our shelter, The moment the rain finished, the boys and I needed to build Starting with the shelter. Tearing it down in the name Five minute break for Chris. I also need a break. I'm seasick. I'm out of it. You got to pick this up. I can't. I can't pick it up anymore. I feel like but we got two other goofs I'm miserable. We built one wall. - Yeah, we built one wall. All of us. Regardless of being seasick, it was going to take all of us Now, you guys Let's go! How many YouTubers does it take Wait? Is that a whale? Think that's a whale? Oh, my God. - It's unreal. This experience Shelter, water, not being near Nolan. I'm never going to take that Probably would have been really We got a ladder. I literally After hours of building, I severely regret instead of a 50 hour challenge. Like all our other videos. It's freakin' miserable. And finally, just as - Camp is now organized. Night two, my bed is still broken, tonight because I'm that tired. I'm gonna head to bead. Yeah. Just go back to bed, I accidentally woke Lazar up, This might be the most tired I've ever been in my entire life. It's now day three. And somehow our building I'll take that as a dub. The noises that the structure made while I was sleeping last night, filled me with nightmares. It's day three and we've really Our morning routine - Bro, who vlogs in the pee corner? I'm not moving. - eating our breakfast, It's all you need? and drinking hot barrel water. So dehydrated, I need this. We're about 36 hours in - through a barrel of water. We're going to run out on day six. Running low on water I'm kind of curious to see There's so many fish below us! So we decided to try and catch some dinner, Why does it take so long? I just want something Bryan! Bryan, help us catch fish! Bryan! Turns out fishing is a lot harder After hours, Why can't we catch anything? We were tired, Which forced us to dig Let's have ourselves a feast. Yeah! Call it a Feast-ables. Aye! In our supplies, We had wood to build a fire You take big stick and then make medium sticks. Then use the big sticks at the end. Look at them beans, baby! I'm so excited. -These are really good. at sea for three days? - Literally. over canned chili? Hey, I put some love into this one. It's not just canned chili anymore. It's got tomatoes, kidney beans. You don't have to keep talking. This was our first hot meal in days, but it was also so we made sure to enjoy it. I feel a lot better. I think the first two days I think we're slowly, and it's actually becoming I still haven't gone That's my biggest concern, I'm struggling to sleep. This raft is just rocking Definitely I'm kind of miserable. Hopefully tomorrow is better. None of us managed to get any sleep. We lost the back of our The house needs some repairs. Tensions are pretty high Nolan's a little upset. Oh, my God. Nolan is struggling. He's just in his feels right now. It'll be okay. He probably would've This is easily the worst. Oh, there's thunder. I swear. Oh, I can't take that. And to make matters worse, we accidentally dropped our ladle And since we haven't showered grabbing it technically I'm never drinking out of that Fast forward Because of the contamination, a third of our water Whatever reason, the more I suffer, some of our most popular videos. are when I buried myself alive, So I hope you're happy. It's not easy surviving on a raft, Lazar's finally pooping. Can you play a celebratory song? LazarBeam is - pooping. See how all those clouds Yeah. Yeah. They're going to pour Tonight's going to suck. We didn't know it yet, but the biggest storm of the entire towards us. And when we saw it approaching, we tried to prepare Can't wait for another storm Tareq's Chris is fixing the roof, for some reason. There's a storm-a-brewing. And while they're for the storm, because it might literally storm This is going to be a bit rocky. Shopify is a platform to start a business. They literally support all around the world, to nails, to crates to... Crocs, they support Assuming we're going to have covering this structure, I am worried about it. 100% of what I sell online I do with Shopify. It's actually getting pretty rocky - The wind is getting crazy! It's really hard to work Stop yelling and do things! Shopify even has a new AI tool making running Just like surviving on this so can entrepreneurship. And that's why to make it as easy as possible. - This is my worst nightmare. Go to Shopify.com/MrBeast to give it a try right now. Let's go prep for the storm. I'm soaking wet! Maybe you can start I was paying for the raft! The storm was really but that night, This really puts the helter Oh no, you! Are you kidding me? - It's leaking! This shelter is the opposite This is brutal. What do we do? We have three more... The next three days, by the way. - No! It's useless. This does nothing. This is the most insane night yet. We are struggling right now. Is this safe anymore? We could've just filmed but no, we have to that doesn't fake things. We're gonna die! We're getting just destroyed. There's a hole that is completely I can't do this. - I can't do this. Jimmy, please. I tried to talk all you guys You all said yes! This is the worst experience I hate every part of this. I'm just miserable right now. The storm was reaching a new peak We were desperate, as literal walls We're all at rock bottom now. It's been raining for a few hours. It's freezing cold. We don't have beds. I don't know if we're these full seven days at this point. It rained nonstop and after standing the whole night we had to push ourselves to dry off Our raft is just in shambles. Look at our beds, This is harder than Antarctica. This is harder than the desert video. I'm just ready to be home. I hate this raft. I never want to see it again. Our entire fire pit We couldn't start a fire And to make matters worse, all of Meaning only a portion We had stability, and we took it for granted. We can't take We need to waterproof We just ripped that off to tide it here, But this time we have this. Last night we were shivering cold. and wanted to die. So would you rather be Put a zip tie here. Nolan. Tie a rope to that, zip tie there. We can use that to push us up I'm thinking, why don't I make all our wet stuff? Maybe we'll have dry towels I want to die. I'm sunburned, tired, dehydrated, After fixing camp, that we spent most But at least when we woke up, we were reunited - Bryan! - Bryan! Bryan, come back! After being stuck in a raft This really is a nightmare. I'll admit it, - I missed Bryan. You may not have given up on Bryan, Bryan's given up on us. We have two days left. Our water is contaminated, I'm going crazy. These last two days What could go wrong now? I can literally see 500 That is crazy. Oh, my gosh. I almost had a mental breakdown I was shivering wet the entire time. Could not sleep. It was one of the worst nights Last night, in the middle of the deep, You know, we got through it. Now, the end of this challenge Making the challenge 7 days This is so much harder. The new reinforced, waterproof Lannan said it rained last night, did it? At 4 a.m., sprinkled a little. Hey, here's the beauty. I didn't even know. That was the best sleep I actually got a full night's I can barely even open my eyeballs. I would say this is the hardest adding the extra five days definitely makes it harder. The fact on this hunk of wood, And while it seemed like we found ourselves We've gone from shivering cold to being scorching hot, I'm about to jump in the water We're going to go swimming. I hope Nolan can swim. And while they cooled off we got creative with ours. Oh, yes. It's fans. Cold air. I feel amazing. Air! A jellyfish bit me! Why does the ocean hate us? I knew it was a great idea - Are you okay? I found the sweet spot. Yeah. Oh, no. Yeah, I got a little welts For the majority of the day, we literally Yeah, I'm hot. I don't want to be alive. It's very hot. But as the sun went down, about reaching the finish line. We have less than 24 hours This has genuinely been the hardest challenge video Honestly, this whole experience all the things we take Like your shower, your food. I miss food. A working toilet. I never want to poop I say we celebrate making it Yes, available in every Walmart, in America. It's 2023, If you're still buying Hershey's, Hershey's for the boomers. - Oh, Jimmy, what is happening? Jimmy, I'm starting to think I guess I'll just continue This is our final night Oh, I'm so glad to sleep alone. I'm gonna miss 100%. I would not rather And with that, I'm going to bed. After an amazing night's sleep, Bryan brought his family to say Thank you, Bryan. It's almost like we were family We were. He kept us safe during like, Maybe he's just a pea brain bird. - Shut up. - I wish. Everything's going full circle. We had so many crazy memories Yeah, and I think my best Same. We spent over 150 hours And even though it was easily the boys and I still had - Where's this boat? The boat! Then finally, The boat, it's coming! Alert the ship of our location. Signaling the boat! Boat! Boat! Boat! Why is it moving so abnormally slow? - Oh, my God! The first 10,000 people to go will get a free box of Feastables. click the link in the description