Do you really want to plan with, like, your your planning environment? Don't do that. That's kind of risk. All right, you just finished and all of a sudden something changes. You've got to do, and now you have to do it. How does Scrum is this just a normal thing that we would, uh, question always makes me chuckle because I've, to this belief that if you are changing the Sprint sort of, you know, Scrum fowl, minus 10 points, like this is not allowed. The whole point of we're doing for the duration of our Sprint, and end of Sprint planning, come hell or high and I get where that idea comes from. I really do. reason we're using Scrum in the first place, because we're doing complex work in which there like there's unknowns and unpredictability product development effort, there's going to be And so, the Sprint backlog is not intended to you know, fixed scope. These are the things we're we want to hold to: it's the Sprint goal. So, and we say we're going to do our darndest to your Sprint backlog, which is the list of items put it into the Sprint backlog and a plan for how are we going to get these things done, how a forecast. It's our best guess, educated guess, of what it's going to take for us to achieve the of the Sprint. So, before getting into the unplanned work and kinds of unplanned work, I just it's not a Scrum foul. Hold to your Sprint goal, and let the specific items on your Sprint backlog gonna say we could avoid a lot of the heartache which sounds kind of like, well, how can you But I'd argue, yeah, it does. So, I spent nearly another seven years in architecture supporting that would take a job and absolutely throw you start digging for that foundation, and absolutely messed up everything, messed up your messed up how they're going to dig this thing. of the houses in that area and just say, you know go look at every other house. We've got 200 houses you're going to build have a high probability your default velocity or whatever you're using That's a ridiculous idea! No other industry takes I see in Scrum environments, people take this risk budget; they don't account for it in their time; and they end up getting into a Sprint saying, we're going to have to do. You're like, are know is how many times do we encounter unplanned this is a brand new metric that we account planning to account for what is the likelihood of based on Jason's finger in the air, I mean, like, maybe you could take on less risk. So, you've got feeling good. Jason's got a Spidey sense here, you should just plan something that takes up one unplanned work, oh my gosh, it doesn't derail be able to take on that unplanned work, and then about that extra week? We have nothing else to do. kidding me? You do have a product backlog, right? queue up the meme where you've got Anakin, and like, right? You did do that anyway. You did refine it, right? If you have work that's ready, to look and kind of forecast not just the work potential for interruptions or change. Why don't that rigorously. They have no choice. They have could do is do that with Scrum. Well, I'm going are times when it makes sense to just stop what Give you a great example: what if there's an building some beautiful website, and it turns you going to put that in your Sprint backlog? backlog and get to it in three Sprints because we to just stop and go fix it. But when something the Sprint retrospective because you're going to issues that are disrupting your Sprint. In other I don't know, fell down the stairs and got a bump emergency room for a couple of weeks. Hopefully, out for a few weeks, but yeah, heck of a bump, and video. But the point I'm trying to make is, oh quickly. We no longer have the capacity to do any number of emergencies that can come up, and a whatever their changing circumstances are, doing But, you know, in the case of that the server blew honestly, if it takes your entire Sprint and you have to go to a Sprint review saying, but hey, a production server went down, we were and we're already doing root cause analysis, I producing a new increment of value, so long as don't be afraid of emergencies; don't be afraid happen when you least expect it, but a good Scrum which means you're going to have to have good to know about it so we can get on it as soon as we one bonus tip? I had a client once that was 80% and they were doing one-week Sprints. It made a difference: they made the unplanned so every Sprint review, here's what we planned, Some of them were true emergencies, like you really could have waited a couple of days. are the unplanned work that came up, therefore, transparent every Sprint review, we started asking that could have waited two days to the next that percentage flipped, 20% unplanned work,