Welcome to Good Mythical More. Can we match the celebrity to Endorse, commercialize, Can we put those Let's tell a ten word story. Why don't you start, friend? - Questions - Start Answers. - Because - Never - Know Question. - If - Never - The - Unless - Research - Alibi - Committing Crime. What was that? Did we get anywhere? Yeah, we did. Not really a story, Questions often start with really know the question if Unless you research your alibi Two crimes. That's how I made it. Oh. When you said &quot;to&quot; and I wanted &quot;to&quot; to be a number. I think that was I give it an A minus. Yeah, I give it a -- - What do you give it, Stevie? Um, I give it an A. An A. Just a straight A? I just gave it an A. I was thinking about, go eat the foods that drawn to the carrot cake situation. - Cause the one -- - The one that you were like, this is so clovey looked so delicious. It was bad, right? Well, I tried all of them. I personally did not Like the fancy one was I think Katrina rest of the slice. Right now. Hey Katrina says it's No, that's not the The clovey one The fancy one was the very carrot cakey. Oh, oh, got it, got it, Yeah, I thought Porto's of them, but I didn't The fancy one was, it Yeah, yeah, yeah. How about that Orville Peck, Man of Mystery? He was so nice. So nice. I didn't want to embarrass like your cute little Orville You noticed. Yeah. I wanted him to feel like, - Is this, is this merch? And I don't, and I I mean, I'm also, I also Mmm, yeah. I'm on that team. I think, I think he shirt when he was here. My wife did ask. My wife did ask. If you were playing Yeah, what team are She she knew Orville And she was like, Um, what are you wearing? I was like, whoa, whoa. Oh, she made you nervous. Well, because, you know, He's an icon. And so I was like, oh, I think I'll wear my new - the cool things on it and she was like, oh, that sounds like a great choice. Does it have I don't know. Nothing on the back? Nothing. Oh, okay. What do you think I tell, I said it's very cute. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I really like it. It doesn't make you on though, does it? Wow. I like it. It strikes, you know, it's who obviously has You don't wanna come in. Like super hot on that - obviously trying to impress him, you know? I thought it was What do you think about what Well, I obviously love It's the Cauldron I think it's what it's pretty cool tis this season Plus it glows in the dark. It glows in the So you don't get too scared. Plant based smoothie. Up here we have Chuck Norris, Dolly Parton, Lionel Messi, One of the biggest Selena Gomez, He's also a football type of football. And DJ Khaled! I know one thing Poor guy. Um, okay. Plant based smoothie. This is Selena Gomez, right? I mean, you know No, Chuck's not doing that. Corinne's not doing that. Dolly, maybe? I don't think. Messi's not doing that. Patrick, the only way either DJ Khaled or Selena. Selena. - So let's stick it with Selena. No. Or is it an even match? It's even. Okay, okay. Pancake and muffin mix. This is something you shelves of Dollywood. You know what I'm saying? That's true. How many times have I told The eagles of Dollywood? I know I've told you on the way, but I've Too many times. The eagles. Maybe twice, and I love So Dolly has created, oversaw this, she has Dollywood that's massive, where they are Okay. I mean, how often do this wonderful country? - Um Not often. At Dollywood, you see him. - I saw one in the wild in, um... back in North Carolina. I've seen one in But not not while Only when I went Cause they're very strange. I think, is it because because you just, you get Maybe Dolly's releasing them. Ah, I like to think she is. I think that's a good, her name on a mix. Yep. It seems like she She needs to do Now, of course you're like the name brand and You better believe it. We are gonna believe it. Sports drink. I'm thinking this might Oh, you know what? Lionel Messi sent us his Yeah, at least - Yeah, Messi sent us... his little promo thing we know that's a fact. There. Uh, it was basically Did we try it? We looked at it and we Logan Paul's sports drink. Oh, that's what we said, yep. Which is called, Maverick? I don't know what it's called. Prime. Prime. It looked just like Prime. It was very Prime ish. Yep, all right. And then we have I'm thinking Chuck Norris. You think so? I think Guy Fieri would. Chuck Norris is a, look He's in the southwest You're right. And that's his That's good. That's what you Some people laugh at them. Some people laugh at them. Some people laugh I wish I would have brought It would have looked good Yep, missed opportunity. - Before we continue -- mask bit, like you know. Yeah, we're comedians, huh? You know, was it too obvious? You cannot wear a cowboy That's exactly What? Because then it would look who's trying to... around me. But when I put on the mask, But it was a little You could've. But it was funnier Mm hmm. You think he was offended? I thought it was hilarious. I don't think he was offended. I mean, we, we, you know, almost friends with him. We're acquaintances. I say I am. Yeah, I'd say you're I'd say you're a I'd say I'm a Yeah. Yeah. He's not mad. We've seen him a few times. We've ran into him in Ooh, I like the phrase Yeah. That's nice. Like a little ranking system. Yeah, we're a Like, when he sees that it's happening. Right. But he's not my friend. Hold on. I'm not his friend. Right. He's my friend. He sets the terms. He sets the terms. Hey, who would you want, to be a close acquaintance who would you least want? Guy Fieri. Close? Yes, no doubt. Because I feel like Ramsey Uh, he's too intimidating. But I'm saying he's the now a close acquaintance. Uh, I would say he's I've only met him once. Twice. Twice! Huh! Close acquaintance. He's been here. Yes. He asked specific questions the first time he met him. And I don't think he For a living? No, when I was, when I Oh yeah. I want to be close Oh, I didn't even And I know that at some Of course that's the right answer. I said that she, I not she was faithful. And I wanna, I just wanna So that you can be Right, cause I don't want That was a low for you. It was real low. You shouldn't have said that. And I feel bad about it. It wasn't, you said what makes it so bad. No, I didn't. Ooh, that makes it worse. So many people have written in love with her, and she's guy for, so many years point and thought maybe And now I just wanna I mean, did you say arrangement or did you say Cause if they have that's their deal. What's wrong with that? I'm not saying anything's have an arrangement. There's nothing you can do. You'll never be Why, though? Because of what you said. And did. And who you are. - But wouldn't you wanna be -- - Wouldn't you wanna -- I think she might be You know what I'm saying? Well, I chose Okay. Uh, Chuck Norris. Chuck Norris is where We can switch these around. Fish and Chips. Okay, so it's Fish and Chips. Do you think Gordon on Fish and Chips? I think it's DJ Khaled. I don't know. Doesn't that make no sense? Whatever, whatever it no sense with DJ Khaled. Yeah, so it might be, Fish makes the least sense so far. Fish and Chips makes the he's British, and that's the But what is the crap? What is, Cinnamon Bun Nesquik? That's DJ Khaled. You think? He did a collab. He said, can we get it to So we're putting fish There's no way. Yeah, Gordon has put So you think these are kind Okay. Cookies and cream ice cream. Uh That's Guy Fieri. Why? I just don't They could Cookies and cream ice cream. Just cause I see the last one. I don't know where else to go. Cause we know that That's Mahomes all day. Sport coffee. Sports drink, sport coffee. Incredibly confident Reasonably confident Pretty dadgum confident Nesquik. Very confident about the mix. - I think we've nailed it. I think we've done it and won. You did a great job, but Three? All right, I know Something about this Why would Chuck Norris put his Well, you're right. Chicken enchilada bowl. Oh, you know what? What? Norris might do a Yeah, but where does Cookies and cream? She could cookies and cream. I think she could. But then pancake and muffin? For Chuck. A chicken enchilada bowl That totally makes sense. You could totally, you - Pancake and muffin mix from -- We're losing it. We're losing it. And what about now, Stevie? No, uh, I guess you - Two wrong? You made one good switch, can we have three wrong if Well, okay. You, I will say, I'll Chuck Norris's does what his is. Plant based. Now, you were very confident Yeah, we were. Previously. Yeah, we were. And now we're gonna We're gonna give Nesquik... To Chuck Norris? I think what Nesquik commercial with Chuck Norris. No, no way. No way. Well, you heard Stevie go... Wait, what? You heard me make that noise? Yeah, yeah, this was right. This was right, we were right. Plant based smoothie. Plant based smoothie and cream is Selena. Yes! All right, so give us, give - What's the -- seems odd, but it's actually Basecamp Collection, as much as I can tell. It's like -- Okay. powders and stuff like that. Um, Gordon Ramsay has Morning kick. Wow. It's the same, same photo. No, it's just the same face. Well, no, it's the same Oh, uh, yeah. Same hat Same day Same shirt, same face, same beard. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Um, Gordon Ramsay. Has a whole line of So this is one of He's got frozen That's hard to make good. That's hard to do. But Oh, it looks different. I see. I believe Sporked has Oh, you know what? It's okay. If you're gonna do that, it's Pollock. Pollock fish bites. Ain't no shame in Pollock. Yeah, I like Pollock. Lionel Messi sports drink. Mas. Mas plus. Yep. Tell us that looks like Prime. Tell us it doesn't. I, yeah. I don't think either one I like, I like Okay, shots fired. I'm just saying like in you know, but yeah. Yeah. He's a wrestler now. You can, you don't Me? What? Lionel Messi? No. Logan Paul's a wrestler. Logan Paul. No, I do. He's flying from the top rope. Patrick Mahome, Is it, do you say his or Patrick Mahomes? Mahomes. Mahomes. Mahomeys. Mahomeys are coming Oh, he's got a good signature. Throne. Look at his sig. Hey, look at his sig. It doesn't have anything to I don't, I do not believe, if in writing your full name out. But mine's not that cool. But what is that? What are those two things? It's not -- So, the first one is Patrick. What? Yeah, but what is The loop is just And then the next one M, and I love signatures That's your guilty pleasure. That just looked like different language. Well, he's done it. He is done it. And then what's It's like a -- His number. It's like a fly for... a fishing fly. It's his number. He's a, he's a, he's a, I don't see a number. I think it says number Number 15, whatever. Do you see it? Guy Fieri. Yep, he has a line of frozen sauces, and, you know, we did Yeah, you can go to Yeah. Uh, Dolly Parton, into the baking world. She has a bunch of Oh, it's a collab Don't say collab anymore, makes you sound old. Yeah. That's what my kids told me. Yeah. I am old. Well, it's just as What do they say? Collab? Collab. Well that's what I used to people saying collab. Yep, now it's gone back. And now it's gone back. So if you're really old, when you were younger. Collab. Now that you're old, say it. How about, how about boration? That's a boration Makes about 30 pancakes. Look at her hair, It includes a Well look at her signature, Where? It just says Dolly. Oh, right on her boob. Can we zoom in on that? No. That, that is an iconic in a lot of places. Such a definitive no. The um, the butterfly is part that is an, that is a logo. She puts a butterfly Her signature is a logo, that goes on things. Wow. All you gotta do is We've also tried Trevor made a Dolly Baking with Dolly.com She also has like a cornbread Guess Selena's Did not know about this one. Oh, her name is on it. It's not just a Selena Gomez's Pink vanilla ice cream broken, cream-filled cookie Oh, look. Is that her holding Doesn't look like her. No, that's a chef. Now let's look at, we got, signature, which, you know. See the official website, that is iconography. But look at the, look at how I mean, her P. On Parton is magnificent. Look at it. That's a good signature. It's almost too many. I can see every letter, which the same thing the D is doing. So you got a big plump Put the two together and You give birth to a signature. That's a good signature. Here's the thing, if good, you spent a lot You knew that you You got a signature like that. Oh, she knew she Oh, she knew it. And she deserves it. Every bit of it. She's a national treasure. Can we bring up DJ Khaled's... We will not speak ill of her. ...signature. Look at this, see his Of course it is. He's pointing at The biggest thing on Well, he's got a big shin. I do think his 14 ounce Yeah. Size 14. 14 ounces, 14 Another bun! Get it? Oh! That's good, Link. Another bun. His signature isn't great. This makes me sad. Where is his signature? Oh, over here. Oh, gosh. There's a lot going on here. Yeah. You know what, I've Uh We came this We were not, we went, we We were, we came this I don't remember what it was. It, it was the um, the Webby's. It was the Webby's? It was the Webby's. And they were like, DJ Or to say something? I think he just Did you start this story I'll never forgive him. Oh, okay. Cause it seems like a bit of the story. All I remember is that we Al Roker was presenting, and And, uh... We were in a room with Al Roker, DJ Khaled. Well, but then what we everyone, including Al Roker, DJ Khaled needed space. That's right! Me, you, and Al Roker - because DJ Khaled needed space. He needed space. You didn't need space, man. You didn't need space. He had to, he had to think of a cinnamon There was also a prankster YouTuber there. who asked us to turn our Oh, who was that? Well, did we wanna say? No, because I don't I know who it was. And it might be a Can you tell me I'm just not gonna say, well. Oh. And what did he say to do? His, his like manager came you go up there to receive remember it, so and so wants something, like pull a prank before, accept our award. No, no, no, do Right, it's like, turn, us accepting an award into that he was doing, which It made no sense. We said, no, I do remember and then we'll let you Uh, we were, we won podcast, Ear Biscuits. That's where it was, award for the podcast. And in the category Yes. And our acceptance speech should have won this. And, cause we were like, glad you like this, but. - I don't think it was a Webby I was like, Radio Lab like objectively better And then Al Roker was like, like, well that's the first say that kind of thing Thank you so much. Get on with your Go about your business. Go about your, we'll let Get in the spooky season dark cauldron hoodie,