Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today, we're going it so simple and intuitive to set up your you don't have to know anything about one of the most popular e-commerce platforms. You can list products for sale. Customers can add those products to check out. You can collect payments. Shopify gives you everything that In this video, we're going to set up a the Kevin Cookie Company. And that'll show you all of the fundamentals so you too can get All right, well, let's check this out. To get click on the link in the top right-hand corner, description. On this landing page, simply off a free trial. You don't have to provide any to go beyond the free trial, you will have I'll simply be using the free trial. Once you've the home screen of Shopify. Over on the left-hand currently on the home screen. In the bottom trial has just kicked off. That looks great. Right different questions that will help you get set up, that'll cater a setup guide to your needs. Now, I I'll click on I don't want help setting up. depending on how you answered those questions on options you see here. You may have more steps right-hand corner, I'm going to minimize I think the best way to start my new online store guide, over here, I could click on add a product, option for products. I'll click into this. And here, I can add my first product. Let's click on add our very first product. Look at that, we're I can type in a title for this product. Now here way to get started with the store is to sell a box I can type in a description for this product, steps. How do I describe it in an engaging way luckily with AI, I can get some assistance. integrated AI that will help me generate text for And over here, I can type in different features or other than saying the most delicious chocolate I can also select the tone of voice. This is an expert, but I think maybe playful would be a I could also include some special instructions, and see what the AI comes back with. Here it says, Yeah, I think this looks really good. and this now adds the text directly into the I'll remove the quotation marks because I you have a variety of different text formatting to look exactly how you want it to look. In or here you could add a video, and then you have I'll scroll down just a little bit, and here I can to show a picture because the picture is really New. On this page, here, I have a picture of our Look at that beautiful picture. These cookies are little bit on the page, here we have a section will pay for this product, and we charge $25 good deal for premium cookies. To the right of and this is a normal price that you charge. and then this is the price they'll pay. So, customers will think that they're getting a good are swayed by that. Right down below, you also And of course, the tax man is very real, so I'll have the option of putting down the cost per item, we use good ingredients, and it costs us a good I can see the profit margin. 25 minus 10 is 15, that's a pretty healthy margin. Now, of course, for internal tracking, so you can stay on top of If we scroll down just a little bit, you'll and you can use Shopify to keep track of your one-stop shop when it comes to running your online so over here, I could enter in the inventory of should happen when you run out of stock. Now, I cookies if I no longer have any stock, but you you can also attach this product to a SKU or a I don't have that, so I'll leave it and let's look at this shipping section. A box that in right here. Now, we don't skimp these are fairly substantial cookies. With the accurate weight here. Especially if you charge what the shipping charge should be. This all looks Variants allow customers to choose different simply click on this text, and here, you could wondering what type of variants are there for choose different chip types. That's right, you could type in the different option values. For or maybe dark, or maybe white chips, so we offer Once you type in all of your different options, attributes. For example, you could adjust the of which one you choose, but over here, you could and we make about 150 boxes for each one of have various settings that you can configure, but think I'm just about done with adding my first new I can preview what the search engine listing on Google, this is what it would appear like. Now, title or the text, I can click on Edit right here, to the very top, and over on the right-hand side, Here, it automatically identified the product the description field. So here, it correctly or this is a product related to cookies. vendor. You could add it to a collection, and here, you could also type in tags related with the defaults for all of these, and up in And look at that, congratulations! We product. We better start baking some cookies. Right up on top, we can now preview what this let's click this button that says Preview, and we could see that media, or the picture that Chocolate Chip Cookies. Here, we could see the see all the different chip types, or the variants bottom, we have the description. This is looking that we've added our very first product, next, like. If you have an attractive store, I think Over on the left-hand side in Navigation, and then there's an option for Online Store. I get a preview of what my store landing page I can also click on View Your Store, and here, if this rowboat scene on a lake is really doing here and customize it, but when I scroll down so we're making progress, but I will need to make Back on the previous screen, here, I can see that and over on the right-hand side, I can customize However, if you just want to use an entirely just a little bit, here, you'll see some of the lots of different options. In fact, you can even Within the theme store, you'll see so many You have all sorts of different options. It left-hand side, you can also filter down the free versus paid. You can choose based on your or how many products you'll be selling in your features that these themes support. Now, I'm going go back to the previous page. Back on the previous And now keep in mind, although here, I see the you can go in and you can customize the look and just look more for the layout or the features much on the specific elements within the theme right-hand side, let's click on customize. and we can use this to completely customize over on the left-hand side, let's click into all different aspects of this theme. For example, that are used, the typography. Here, you can you can even add stuff like your social media So, you have lots of different items that you can logo for the Kevin Cookie Company, just so that's and right here, I can select an image. I'll my computer. Now that I've uploaded my image, I'll Over on the left-hand side, I can now see my logo, it into the site. That looks really nice. Now, It looks a little small up here, so let's make it and I think that looks a lot more appropriate. like a fav icon or the icon that shows as part I think all of this is good, and I think I'm on the top left-hand corner on the navigation, here, I can see all the different sections for example, I see the header section, and it's the announcement bar. When I hover over this, right-hand side. Or here, I could hover over the Down below, I can also see a section for the up of an image banner, and here, I also have some have a featured collection with all of my products footer section, and here, when I hover over this up to the very top. Here, you could also show or for example, maybe I don't want the announcement and that'll remove it. Or maybe I'd like to use and then I'll hide it for now, but I can always to any of these blocks on the page, over on the and that opens up what's called the Inspector. settings related to this block. Over here, Inspector view simply by clicking on the block just have to make sure that this icon up above is I could click on the header, and that opens up I can modify things like the position of the logo. think I would prefer it in the center. I'll click and there, it's adjusted it. I think that looks could adjust the way the menu appears, whether the the page. Here, if I go down, I could also adjust I see a few different variations. I like this blue that updates the page, and that matches the blue here, if I go down, I have many other settings page to look exactly how you want it to look. at all work well for a cookie company. So, I want and over on the left-hand side, that updates the I can select an image, but let's try exploring and up above in the search, I'll type in lots of different good options. But here, we have and they're just starting to bake. I think that to sell these cookies. Down at the very bottom, in the inspector, I have all sorts of different the page. For example, I could adjust the opacity. That's a lot darker. I don't know about that adjust things like the banner height. Here, you have all sorts of different controls that let's click on back. Back here, I want to simply click on the block, and over on the here, I'll replace it with shop the ultimate right here on the page, you see it automatically let's click on back again. To add a new section you could simply hover over between the different can add a new section. Alternatively, over you'll also see these buttons that say add a I want to add a new section underneath the on add section. This opens up a dialogue where like to add to your page, and there are so many featured collection or a group of products. You you see all these different items you could choose a video on our homepage showcasing how we make our This has now incorporated a new section onto the here I get all the different settings related let me type in some text, made fresh daily. And video. So here I'll delete the placeholder and I the Kevin Cookie Company cookies being made. cover image. I'll click on this and then add an done. Now that I have a cover image for my video, like this style. Let me click on this and maybe banded effect where we have the picture, white, down to the video. So far, I've been building this corner, you can also preview what your store looks set to desktop, but over here, I can also click look like, say on a tablet or on a phone. And I I can go back to the desktop view. And over here, there you get a good idea of what it would look it's coming together. We've been focusing most but you can also modify any pages within currently it's set to the homepage. But when I pages that comprise this store. For example, the default product page. And here we can see what you can come through and you can adjust any of to look. You could adjust the look and feel. Now the text here. And that's what you would do in the this is adjusting the theme that all of your about all of these changes I've been making, on this save icon, just to make sure that all Now you may be wondering, well, how do you add an include information on your refund policy, or maybe even you want to post the latest let's exit out of the theme editor. In on this exit icon. To add a new page, on the go to this option that says pages and click site currently has one additional page in the top right-hand corner, let's Right here, we can type in a title for this you can then type in the content of the page, about the Kevin Cookie Company. Now, similar you can also format all of the text and you This all looks great. So up in the top right-hand like that, we've added a new page. Right down when I click on that, here we see all the about and add some photos. But for now, I think this no entry point to this page from the top-level Back within pages, over on the left-hand side, Within navigation, over on the right-hand side, I of home, catalog, and contact. And about us is main menu. And right here, I can add a new menu I have the option to search for a page within my it looks like it found the page. I'll click on it to the menu items. And I could also shift the it up. Maybe I'll place it right before contact. menu. Now that I've added the new page, here I can us is now part of the top level navigation. That's you can also add blog posts to your online a blog post and a page? Well, a blog post tends on indefinitely or in perpetuity. So, think of doesn't change that often. While with a blog post, you want to announce that. Let's click into blog let's click on the button that says create a title for my blog post. We're launching a new sure everyone knows. Down below, I can type in all you also want to include a featured image. This of your store. Right over here, I'll click on of the new storefront. I'll select his one and the top right-hand corner, I'll click on save. created. Right over here, I'll click on visible I'll click on save. Now that I've added the blog can preview what the blog post looks like. There I see all of the text as part of this post. The there's currently no entry point to all the let's see if we could change that. Let's go back over on the left-hand side navigation, let's the Dawn theme that we customized earlier. Let's over on the left-hand side navigation, here we new section. And this time I'll search for blog. our blog posts. I'll click on that, and that now section, you can also shift the order. Let's appear before this video. Here I could take this let's say actually I want videos above. Here I'll click into blog posts and this opens up the settings related to blog posts. I'll click on this And here I see the blog titled news. I'll click just posted. Down below, I'll click on select. And These are all the changes that I want to make let's click on the exit icon. The website's it's a really solid store. However, there prepare my store for customers. In the bottom says settings. This opens up all of the store Now currently it's referred to as my store, but let's click on the pencil icon. That allows I'm going to enter in the Kevin Cookie Company and over on the left-hand side, we have all of the most important ones is payments. I mean, you let's click on payments. This is where you can get you can set up what's called Shopify payments and methods. So, think of Visa, MasterCard, American those and more. Right down here, you can click involved set up process. You'll have to provide your tax ID. However, once you have it all set up, there are also other payment providers, but have some of the best and most competitive rates beat what they offer. Down below, you can also as another option. Once you set up all of your let's click on shipping and delivery. On the can define how much you charge to ship and also here we can define the different shipping so how quickly you can process the order before whether you offer local delivery or local pickup. can modify some of these shipping rates. I'll I can see what products these shipping rates so I'm going to adjust the shipping rates for So maybe you sell some large objects and some rates depending on what type of product it is. be a simple example. Right down below, I can see just set up by default. Now, one thing I've always to get more orders. So right down below, I don't classes. So here, I'll click on the ellipsis and Right up here, it currently says that if shipping. But I want to modify this so that purchase price is. So over here, I'll click on I could define all the different aspects of this transit time. You could also set the price and I want to remove the conditional pricing because remove. And over here, I'll click on done. So you can define based on the size or the order or how much they have to pay. Down at the very international shipping. But again, mine is going shipping and it'll take five to eight business up on top, let's click on save. Over on the settings that you can configure. For example, you markets that your products are available in. so your logo shows up across all of the of different settings that you can configure, see what all you can do. The last item that I configure a custom domain for my store. With a domain, someone can navigate to them directly into my new store. Over here, you different places where you could buy domains, but Shopify is everything will be automatically do. Right over here, I typed in KevinCookieCompany available. Once you have a domain, you are just you'll need to choose a Shopify plan. Over on the bottom right-hand corner, let's click on choose different options. You have basic, Shopify, also Starter. In general, the more advanced the but also the more expensive that it'll be. Now, different plans, you'll notice as the plan becomes it may actually be more affordable going with a savings may make up for the more expensive price. orders, over on the left-hand side, you can click of your different orders that have come in, the left-hand side, you can also see customer shows you where your customers are coming from, sorts of different information to look at and also hopefully your new store is now up and running. let me know what you would like to see down like this one, please consider subscribing,