Translator: Tanya Cushman Imagine, if you will, that you're walking 24 centuries ago, give or take. You might meet this guy: Zeno of Citium. He was a merchant, a Phoenician merchant. He was doing very well and he lost everything he had. So he made it to Athens, One of the first things he did and started reading books. He read Xenophon's &quot;Memorabilia,&quot; And he was so intrigued and says, &quot;Where can I find me one of these philosopher folks?&quot; And the bookseller turned around. He said, &quot;Well, there's one Because that was Athens at the time: (Laughter) The guy walking by was Crates, And Zeno became his student, eventually went on to study with a number of other And then he established his own school, which became known as &quot;Stoicism&quot; because they studied meaning unlike the other schools Plato's Academy or Aristotle's Lyceum - the Stoics wanted to be to talk to people about their life Stoicism became one of the major It spread through and then to the Roman Republic It produced some of Seneca, who was a senator, a playwright - he influenced Shakespeare - and the unfortunate advisor That didn't end up well for Seneca. Marcus Aurelius, one of the few who wrote &quot;The Meditations,&quot; which is now read by millions Now, unusual for ancient philosophy, Stoicism attracted a number of women. A lot of Roman matrons which were sort of get-togethers to talk about Stoicism. But many of them One of them, the most famous one, who happened to be both the daughter who was an archenemy of Julius Caesar, as well as the wife of Brutus, So she had a lot to deal with in her life, and she approached it in a Stoic fashion. Now, Stoicism, like all eventually died down or was closed but it kept influencing people The reason many people today is because they influenced Christianity, beginning with Paul of Tarsus, and continuing with Thomas Aquinas, the most influential theologian and then into more modern times arguably one of the most and Baruch Spinoza, whose ethics But enough about its history. What is Stoicism about? Well, the first thing is that we should live our life Now, before you go and run that's not what it is about. The Stoics thought that we And human nature fundamentally One, we're highly social animals. We can survive on our own if we have to, we only thrive when we have And two, we're capable of reason. As you know, that doesn't mean In fact, on the contrary - But we are capable of reason. For the Stoics, it followed that the best kind is one in which you apply to improve social living, to improve everybody else's life. There are two fundamental pillars which we will see, in a minute, One is the four cardinal virtues: practical wisdom, courage, Practical wisdom is the knowledge and what is not good for you. Courage is not just physical the courage to stand up Justice is what tells you how to interact with other people, And temperance is the idea that you should always do things not overdo them nor underdo them. The second pillar is called This is the very basic idea that some things are up to us Now, you can divide everything you do and only worry about the first one For instance, I came here As you've seen, Do I worry about it? No. Let me introduce you to Epictetus. He was one of the most important He was a slave. He was born in Hierapolis, He was acquired - in fact, We don't know his real name; And [he was] brought to Rome where he did pretty well. Eventually, he was freed. He was, you know, a bright guy, so he started going preaching Stoicism. And for his troubles, So he figured that wasn't a good approach. It was in his power so he started over, which was very successful until the Emperor Domitian because he did not appreciate as we would say today. So Epictetus moved and went to Nicopolis, reestablished his school and became one of the most famous The reason I like Epictetus and he has a sarcastic sense of humor. And I'll give you Here's what he says in &quot;The Discourses&quot;: &quot;I'll have to die. If it is now, well, then I die now. If later, then now I will take my lunch, since the hour for lunch has arrived, and dying, I will tend to later.&quot; Don't worry about death; (Laughter) You know you're going to die; Lunch, on the other hand, Now, I told you being one of the two Here's how Epictetus himself explains it. He says, &quot;Some things are within our power, Within our power and in a word, Not within our power are our body, and in a word, whatever And note, if you stop for a second it's like that is weird. He's saying that my body, my property, What do you mean? I can decide to go to the gym of course my body's under my power. Unless a virus strikes you down. Unless you have an accident The idea is that you can do things, you can make decisions about your health, but ultimately, So what does that mean in practice? It means that we should try by internalizing our goals, not worry about the outcomes, but worry about our intentions because those are very much One of the beautiful metaphors was that of an archer. Imagine that you What is under your control? Well, the practice of archery - You can choose the best bows and arrows You can take care You can focus up until the second But after that, things A gust of wind can ruin your best shot. The target may move, and you missed. So what do you do? According to Cicero, the actual hitting of the mark would be to be chosen So you do not attach you only attach it to what In practice, in today's life, these can change the way Let me give you a couple of examples. Let's say you're up for Now, the normal thing to do would be to worry about whether According to the Stoics, the promotion itself Your boss may have gotten up he's upset, he's got something else on his mind, and the interview is not going to go well. Or maybe somebody else deserves even though you did well, and again, that's not up to you. What is up to you, of course, is to prepare the best you can to put together the best resume possible, to work really hard to actually, That's the locus of your control; that's where you Or think in terms of relationships. You know, everybody wants to be loved. But that's not up to us. It's up to the person What's up to us is to be the most lovable person, to be affectionate, to be there for them. Whether they decide not under our control. So if you take this seriously, you will, in fact, have a happy life because a great part of happiness into the idea that you by knowing that you've done your best and that nothing else He says, &quot;If you have the right idea and what does not&quot; - in other words, what you do control &quot;you will never be subject you will never blame or criticize anyone, and everything you do And this would be than the one in which everybody for what they don't have control over. Now, my colleague Brian Johnson explained Epictetus' approach The idea is that we all play and that a happy life as best as we can. There are, in fact, First, our basic role as a human being - we're all members of the human polis. The Stoics were the ones literally meaning We're all human beings, we're all in the same place, and we have to take care Then there are roles You could be, you know, That wasn't your choice; it just happened. And then there are roles that we choose our career, being a mother These three sets of roles your basic role as a human being Everything you do, Is this good for humanity? If it isn't, don't do it. It's a simple test. You will end up doing much less, as we saved you energy. And then the rest, These roles come with trade-offs. Yes, you want to be the best and colleague and friend but there are trade-offs, and a lot of what Stoic philosophy is how to balance these things. How do you play these roles? Well, the most important thing What does that mean? Well, Epictetus again explains: &quot;You are the one that knows yourself, of how much you're worth to yourself and for how much you're selling yourself. Consider at what price but please, for God's sake, What that means is that the goal here whatever that means; it's just to be the best you can. Don't compromise and sell yourself cheap, That's it - once you've sold yourself, The idea is to be not perfect one little step at a time. Now, let me give you a couple of examples. Epictetus talks about a father who is very distraught and he just can't take it. He leaves the house, and leaves his wife And Epictetus says, &quot;Wait a minute. Do you think you were right The father thinks about it for a minute and says, &quot;Well, I was behaving naturally. I was, you know, distraught. Well, that brings up the distinction between what is natural You don't control your feelings. If you're distraught there's nothing you can do But that's different from the ethical duty you are her father. You 're supposed to stay there even though it does cost you So the two virtues are courage, to actually do the right thing, and justice, that is, do the just thing, We also have to, as I said before, And this has to do with two other virtues: the practical wisdom, the idea of knowing the difference between what's good for you and temperance, the idea that you can balance things by putting the right amount of energy Epictetus explains it this way: &quot;Reflect on the other If you're young, If you're old, what does age imply? If you're a father, Each of our titles Imagine you are an actor, you play a role. Now, the role is not You can play the role of a mother, You don't have to play in the way in which society You just have to play in the way But still you're a mother or a father, The way you cash out these duties, the way you actually is up to you. But you do have them. Now, how do we learn to play well There's many ways - the Stoics were famous for a number of exercises, but fundamentally, is to simply imagine people people that are your role models, people that you can see after which you change your own life. The ancients used people that they knew, or even imaginary people. One of their favorite role models I mentioned him earlier; He had such a level of integrity that when people in Rome they made a mistake, they would say, &quot;Well, He was used as an excuse. It was like, &quot;Not everybody Well, right, but you can try. One of the favorite who gave up immortality twice and endured 10 years of traveling to get back to his wife and to his child. But there's also modern role models, Some of my favorites are Nelson Mandela, who, as we know, spent more than 20 years in prison He was very angry, But one of the changing points in his life was when one of his fellow inmates smuggled in a copy Mandela read it and understood was not through anger or hatred, but on the contrary, by extending a hand also to the people, even to the people And that changed his life and changed the life Another one of my favorite role models is Susan Fowler, who a couple of years ago came out to denounce their sexual that was quite widespread at the time. She risked a lot personally, in terms of career, and she did it from a Stoic perspective. I happen to know Susan, My favorite role model who famously said that with great powers Well, we don't have great powers - but we do have power. We have the power of exercising choices, and that power comes of exercising the best choice So the general idea, is that just like actors in ancient Greece, we wear a number of masks, The same actor would come out on stage and the mask will tell the audience which character and it would remind the actor himself that he was now playing And the idea is that a happy life where you play all these roles Thank you very much. (Applause)