(mellow upbeat music) - [Camera Operator] I'm - [Producer] It looks sharp there? - [Camera Operator] Three, two, one. - Welcome to &quot;Dropping a podcast that explores the many ways to awaken the best in the human spirit. I'm Cali Alpert. Dropping in today, Dr. Gabor is a retired physician, and internationally renowned speaker, highly sought after for his expertise on addiction, trauma, and the relationship For his groundbreaking medical work, he was awarded The Order of Canada, his country's highest His latest book, &quot;The Myth of Normal: &quot;Trauma, Illness, and is co-authored with his son Daniel, as is their next book, &quot;Hello Again: &quot;A Fresh Start for Parents Daniel is an award-winning songwriter, playwright, and educator. He received the Edward Kleban Prize for Most Promising Lyricist and the ASCAP Foundation's for Excellence in Music and Lyrics. Outside of music and theater, Daniel runs the world's only mental called Take a Walk With Daniel. His passion is helping people crystallize their own innate freedom, and true intelligence by discovering what alignment means for them. So Gabor and Daniel, thank you so much for dropping in today, I'm so It's a pleasure to meet you both. - Thanks so much for having us. - First I'd like to start of the adult-parent relationship, and why it's so unique, and And Gabor, let's start with you. - Well, it's unique because starts off so entirely is meant to become, at some between two mature adults. As a matter of fact, it's that begins with one partner for taking care of the other, perhaps, that second person And all that while, they have to negotiate unresolved hurts, and issues that come in the way between those two partners. So there's no relationship move towards equality, and then move towards inequality again, in terms of caretaking responsibility, all the while demanding mutual respect. - What's the term? The expression, &quot;The child Right? - &quot;The child is the father of the man.&quot; Well, I take that to mean, in some ways, that who we are as children who we become as adults. But it's certainly, I also some adult parent child relationships where there's been a role been parenting the But that's a whole other thing. I would just add to what Gabor said, that, it's also unlike other There's really no blueprint - Right. - You know, we don't need in the same way that we did, live perfectly well or their adult children. There may be grief about that. There may be a tremendous sense of loss. Some people are more blase about it. But the fact is, once has been reached, developmentally, what nature intends is can take care of themselves, stops parenting as a verb, And we see this, I think, I don't know if we're the but it certainly is a niche If you go into any bookstore, How many shelves of books about parenting from - Right. - And then there's also of life, saying goodbye And then there's a few books from the narcissistic abuse But what about just the all of those decades in between. What are we supposed to do with them? So that was a curiosity, that set us going down - What was behind the curiosity? - Sheer misery. - [Daniel] Not sheer misery. - I'm exaggerating of course. - Mitigated misery. - Mitigated, sheer misery. - Intermittent. (laughs) - We've had a lot of issues it was actually somebody, who at some point suggested want to do a workshop about this. And we did. And those people like the video of us talking on the evening of our first event, you see along with a whole lot of and respect, and so on. So the fundamental dynamic or motive was our own particular stuff. But the dynamics are hardly unique to us. So, they're fairly universal. - So going back to your reference to the challenge and tension of your relationship and you're the eldest of three - Yeah, yeah. - So you were the the to experience that, you - Trial balloon. - Trial balloon? - Yeah. - Do you recall who came to the awareness that there were issues to work out first, especially given your - Well, I came to the realization that, in many ways, I had hurt my children. But that realization to approach the relationship very wisely. In fact, in the beginning, when I came to those realizations, it in me, so I approached of the guilty parent, who, oh my God, I did all these things, but also from the point of view of they didn't want me to fix them. So, I may have come to but that doesn't mean that to how to deal with it. That took a whole other how to relate to them as adults. - On the other hand, when I drew a picture of three dinosaurs, two large imposing dinosaurs roaring, and one little dinosaur crying. And the caption was, to treat a child? So, I knew something was and I was trying to communicate it. And then throughout my teen you know, my own emergent up, and I was becoming I was writing songs, and about my parents quite a bit, to music that expressed some So, but again, just doesn't mean that it led me to approach, you know, repairing it in nor did I necessarily imagine I think this is the ultimate, for many people, they just You know, once it's done, it's done. And you're gonna live with it more or less for the rest of your life. It hasn't been until, maybe doing the workshop, that we maybe not only can we try to which you actually can't do. You can heal or remedy But what if we focused right now to really enjoy and to have some new - People hearing this an ultimate irony, given in trauma, and bridge building, inside of your specialties. And I wonder if that means, sometimes, in these families it's that classic sort of healer, heal thy self thing? Is it easier or harder? You have the tools, and you're but does it make it harder to penetrate it when it's happening under your same roof? - It made it harder in the sense that, I would want to, I would approach my kids the same way as I approach people who came to me for healing. But my kids don't come to me for healing. They come to me for relationship. So if I show up as the I'm purely polluting the relationship with something that doesn't belong there. And so they used to just resist and resent that, justifiably. And as for me, it's one of those issues that used to trouble me quite a bit, that I can help the whole world, and I can't help my own kids, you know? But that's part of the point our adult kids don't want us to show up in a particular role, they And, I had some trouble - Or go away, sometimes. (laughs) - Or to go away, sometimes, yes. - To know when the time is right. - As the case may be, yeah. - And from this end, I mean, look, I get messages especially now that the book's out, genuinely expressing a wish, a very fond would've been as conscious and aware of trauma dynamics, and as and as wise when it comes And I can completely understand that. And in many ways I'm very, that there is a vocabulary, and some kind of invitation At the same time, the vocabulary preceded the shifts in being, and and behavior in the moment, which created in me, a real wariness, because but I don't feel it, I can't feel it. And that, you know, that didn't transform anything. It just entrenched a because I can't. - And it's confusing, right? - It's completely confusing to have nothing to do or trauma, or anything like Like whatever my dad would recommend to me to like, help ameliorate my various kinds of woe in my adulthood, or something, it's just like, no. That's your thing, you know? Don't stop trying to change me or fix me. Which, you know, I'm sure was not what he would wanted me to take from that. - One of my children who came they watched me work the whole day with the participants, they came to me with tears of rage, saying, you're such a Why can't you be like this at home? - What did you do with that - Oh, I totally understood what they said. Yeah, I totally got it. I totally got it. And you know, they were right. - It kind of speaks, perhaps, to the idea of, when you know things intellectually, versus when you embody them. - Oh, 100%. And you know, one thing I'm finding, the more I progress in this my so-called mental Are you okay, Father? - I'm fine, I've just - That was me being loving. - Oh, okay. - Well it was half joking. - I thought you actually were asking. Maybe you were actually asking. - Okay. - I was just laying it on a little thick. - I thought you were joking. - Yeah, I was half joking. - Okay, that's it, I'm walking out. This interview is over. - You can't take a joke, (laughs) - Well, when it comes to How do you get across that finish line from knowing something intellectually, to embodying it? It's all well and good to say, But how do you do that? The more we do this work with people in my, quote, unquote, mental chiropractic practice, which is completely made up by the way, I'm not a chiropractor, it's The more I find that to get over that hurdle, because, you have to make it important enough to embody it. Like, if something is important to you, you prioritize it, and If you have to get across town, because a loved one is in a fire, and you need to save their to get them out of the if you get an email on the way, or even, you know, if someone you automatically go And so we actually get comfortable in these stuck habits, to them that we can examine if we want to be honest about it, you know? So what it takes is getting, of the same old, same old, and then, wondering, how else could it be? - Gabor, do you think that everybody has the ability to, I'm because that's kind of what I'm getting from what Daniel said, do has the ability to shift to the degree that they can do better of their dynamics with - Well, let me make a distinction between capacity and ability, okay? Capacity is the inner resources, or the possibility. Ability is a bit more specific. It means, can they actually do it? Are they able to do it? - Right now? - Yeah, and that depends What kind of guidance they get, what kind support they may have, what are their internal at the moment? What is their intention? What possibility are they aware of? So yeah, I think we all have the capacity. In the sense of potential some doing to get to - Well what's the synonym And we are talking about and know that you don't build any skill without practice, intentional practice. I don't accidentally I don't accidentally - Does this explain why - Yeah. - Okay, I understand. Thanks. - It's not entirely your fault. - Absolution from your son. - That's great. If you did, we could do a Yeah. - We could do Shostakovich's trumpet and piano concerto, actually. - Oh, wow. - It's a wonderful piece. - I was thinking more Chet Baker, and Oscar Peterson or something. - That too. - Yeah. - These are interesting you're putting together, I appreciate it. - No, I think we were meant and that's about it, and lead workshops. (laughs) - I think there's that would listen to this of offering, and find it enviable that there are parents that are able to even attempt and even to have this language, because there's so many that can't. So what do you say to in that dynamic, and is of different reasons, that - Is that we both have learned, I think, that it's not 50/50, a hundred percent. In other words, I can make a shift with whether or not the other that changes the my experience with the relationship. So it doesn't depend on the other person. Now, it's also the case if I make myself a hundred not for the relationship, to the relationship. If I make myself a hundred very often, and if I transform and embody the shift, as you guys are saying, that other partner will even without intention. But whether they do or not, if I change my relationship my experience is gonna So fortunately, ideally, of course, it's great if both partners but it doesn't require that ultimately. That's the good news. - And there's a special thing going on in this relationship, too, in one direction, I'm sure but I'll speak from experience. When you're dealing with this person, when you're an adult child you know, we are wired biologically affected by each other. We have a chapter in our new called, &quot;You Rattle My Brain&quot; the Jerry Lee Lewis song, &quot;You shake my nerves and We really do. Now, when I'm trying say, with a spouse, my might get triggered. I'm gonna react to them and I'm a little child, right? That's one degree of separation. When I'm dealing with this that conditioned mine, and several decades down the road, obviously, our cells have regenerated, in many ways, we're not the same people, He looks the same to me, because I didn't notice the passage of time. So doing the time warp is so much easier to fall - Of going back to the past. - Of going back to the past. Right? Which means it takes an and intention, and probably a because it is, the past is And you have to, I think, make room, for this dynamic is so deep. This is the first person you encountered when you came into this world. They're the one who set the how life occurs to me, you know. How life seems to you, what the world is. So to retrain the nervous if you take into account and his colleagues like Bessel, and Peter Levine, and all that. Well then, it's actually kind to reconfigure that in when we're living in a time and a society when the parent-child and so endemically - Which by the way, I think, thanks to leading to that, we have to just broaden from the individual parent The parenting relationship And that context is the culture. And when you look at how for most of our existence, in species that preceded us as humans, of our own species, in the uniquely responsible under such conditions We evolved, and spent and post evolutionary, of our own species existence, in small bands, where - Right? - Way too much responsibility, is placed on parents today. And so we have to at this is not about blaming It's almost impossible in this culture to be the parent that I mean, it's not impossible. Very, very difficult. And in many ways, to be a you have to resist the culture, being there to support you, it actually actively intervenes and undermines you. So that needs to be understood - That's so much grace, especially these days, just - They need all the grace they can get. - Yeah. - And we do address that issue very much in &quot;The Myth of Normal.&quot; And we quote James of Human Development, we have to really understand to parent in a toxic environment. He wrote that in the 1990s, and - Little did everybody know. - And there's gonna be around out there saying, well, okay, but I don't wanna let them off the hook. It's got nothing to do with First of all, you're the when you're holding onto But that will be the case, You have that anger, and your experience of your childhood is made no less acute, or excruciating, or raw, or traumatizing, nor the ripple effects up until this moment, all you know, everything and mentally, not to but again, your body and mind, in the crucible of your and conscious and unconscious. - Womb, metaphorically and literally. - Yeah, right? It's like both/and. When we started this of my latent, actually at some point, I was gonna oh well, parents do their sell out on the authentic working through of my grievances, you to sort of make a moral, of limitations or something. Now, ideally there would to reckon with them honestly. - Do you mean griefs or grievances? - Well, the griefs that are as is always the case. - Yeah. - You know, and sometimes to pop open like a clam to reveal the more sensitive grief inside. - I would also say that a of not getting to the grief, - Defense mechanism? - Yeah, it does, but that doesn't mean you can force it open. - You can't. - You know, it needs to be which sometimes means allowing the grace parents can And, if that makes you feel guilty, you deal with your guilt, You've probably been carrying You know, they're working and it might mean you from them for a while. But when there's an One of the best things you and tend to it lovingly. - I'm curious about the with the others' trauma and wounds. Gabor, your earliest versions of trauma are very public, and informed your career. And Daniel, I've heard you of your father, about rage early on, and feeling a lack of respect. Can each of you speak to your sensitivity toward the other one's wounds, before you got deeper into this work? - Well, the thing I that I wish I was able when challenged, to see the woundedness of my children or my son, particularly this son, at the moment when the Like, it's one thing to be and going back into the past, but like, we had a public event. - Recently. - Recently, here in New York, actually, or, close to here in New York, where certain stuff happened, and I didn't see the Instead I experienced, what I interpreted, was an attack. - [Daniel] Disrespect. - Lack of respect, and so on. So the real skill, is actually see the woundedness, the trauma, not as sort but when it's present, and just to be present to and to approach it with and compassion, and openness, and not taking it That's what's the greatest - Yeah, and for the adult child, of my dad's early trauma. I mean, the Holocaust is a pretty, I mean, it's a pretty outsized And one can get kind or even inured to it. - Well excuse me Daniel, Did you grow up listening to it? I don't think I talked about - You didn't talk about it, but around, it was an environment we I'm not saying, it I'm not saying that. But I was aware of it, and certainly since you've become an author and a speaker, you go back to that, I mean, We opened the book with it, in many ways. So, I mean, one thing that's what are his other traumas? What happened when he was six? What happened when he was 10? What happened when he was 13? 'Cause I can't relate to being given away to a stranger on the street in Budapest, in the ghetto, when But I'd like to hear about his pubescence, and the awkwardness with - [Cali] Are you saying that you haven't? - What's that? - Are you saying you - I've found it more difficult - Have you asked? She asked. - Yeah, I think I have, to have not had to, I would've liked there to be more of a, hey son, I've been there. Rather than hey son, here's - I don't think he ever asked for me and girls at that age. Not that you should have asked me. - Not that I should have had to ask. Some parents have the instinct. - No, no. There's no reason why I here's my experience with girls. - No, no, no, no, Dad, If I come to you in turmoil - Yeah? - One, I think, strong - Say, this is what it was. - Right, because you've gone before. You've walked this road. So whatever the challenge in or sex, or things like that, I think there's a parenting instinct in some parents, and not in others. I'm not making you wrong for it at all. I'm telling you what I longed for. To be able to relate to you, - This is something that you are aware of? - More and more aware of as as something that was missing. - Okay. - And I'm enjoying more and more, that I can actually relate to you. But quite aside from when you become aware of there can be sometimes a well, does that let them off the hook? And I think what's underneath they should have given me what I needed, and I don't want to give them And I think, again, the capacity On the one hand, I needed something, and they Whether I think they withheld again, not able, unable, right? I didn't get it. And I have all kinds of and sometimes those emotions on the one hand, on the with a history and they at a certain time in their in my case, they'd never been parents. You know. You can't make the go away, necessarily, overnight, with some awareness, and balance them out so that they no longer dominate. And I do think an awareness that, I mean, you and I were speaking about us, but I can say, and I to talk about that to be a part of this, right? Because it's not just fathers and sons. Her childhood I can relate It's less rarefied. She just grew up in a stressed home, with confusing and confused parents who were really doing their And I know those people, right? So that has been something It's very hard for me to or to even imagine it. I mean, it's unthinkable to me. - That begs a question about You're talking about of holding these two of a need for attribution or whatever. It's complicated. So there's that piece Then there's the piece of relatability. And Gabor, I'd like to ask you this, in all due respect, Daniel, does it matter, are there other Like just the compassion for or your kids' experience, even Does that help to find your - You know, I don't like to and prescriptions don't work, you should, et cetera, et cetera. 'Cause there's no shoulds. What I do find, is that the more people heal their own stuff, they relate to somebody else's experience. - That's very true. - And and the more automatically and the less grudge they hold, you know? 'Cause grudges come out If I heal, and if I'm less but how I relate to the to the person who's in my past changes. If I'm less hurt, there's And ultimately, if I completely heal, there's nothing to forgive anymore. Because if I completely then I wasn't damaged, nothing There's nothing to forgive. So I do think that's what you're is a function of healing, - And as a child who's I think that's absolutely out by the fact that lately, especially since the book has come out, I haven't wanted as much from you. You know, something has Now, we did have some But it's the difference, I think, between repair and reparations. An adult child who is secretly is afraid that and will always be a child, is hiding the key somewhere. I wrote a song when I was on an album that I never, that I released, and then never distributed 'cause I was a little embarrassed of it. The chorus hook was, I until you give me time to be my own man. Now, in a sense, there was truth there. It's like I wanted some space. Please understand, please On the other hand, there that you pay me back And that debt, even if it 'cause you can't change the past. And the more I insist on it, and I'm the one paying it. You know, resentment is and want someone else to So, as I've gotten more complete with my past, which, paradoxically enough, means getting more viscerally connected to the pain, and my experience of the pain. Not his reportage of the pain, not the facts of the matter, from the work of a certain trauma's not what happens inside you and how you lose touch with, which is the So, as I've done my work the ouch, the mm, I and I see results in my to him, and I don't see the key from me. I see someone who. - Because there's no key. - Because there is no key, you know. In fact, because, and I'm already free, I just don't have access to the experience of freedom, So that's what responsibility, It doesn't mean letting It means letting the hook off, you know, dissolving the hook. - It means there's no hook. - It means there's no hook. - So I'd like each of you What do adult children and parents have to lose, and have to gain by doing or not doing this work? - Well, what they have to - The sense of being right. - It's my turn, Dad. - Okay. Then go ahead. (laughs) - There's certainties. - Because the last thing I hate to interrupt you. - Yes. - So I'd like you to go on. - I appreciate that. - Yeah. - I can tell the joke will continue. There's gonna be a third one, right? - Yeah, because I don't wanna be the kind of parent that takes away when they're talking, and I hate to be that kind of a parent. - Wow. - Yeah. - You're a really great parent. You're so conscientious. - Thank you, child. - I'm so lucky to have you. - Yes, aren't you? - There are certainties and their comfortable narratives, which are not necessarily comfortable, like, they're not happy, with them, and they give some kind of benefit payoff. A dubious one maybe, but and avoiding responsibility, So, and also your certainties what you're capable of, your Because if your parents aren't and if your children aren't then maybe you're not Like take an adult, like a parent, shifting their view of their child. Well, up until that point, as the unfortunate result But if you actually, which as a perpetrator, and a or whatever, whatever it is. Or you might be trying to so saying I'm innocent, you But if you see your child Like, they turned out You probably filtered you got as a kid and they're dealing with, and maybe they're even really suffering, but it's their suffering, Well then who you are in every aspect of your life. So that's the opportunity as well. There are ripple effects are unpredictable, that I think even we're still discovering. - What you got to lose is something that we all hold very precious, which is, our sense of grievance, I mean, I love being hard done by, I mean, not that I love but I default to a position of, you know. - I can arrange to have you (laughs) - [Gabor] I'm sure you could. - I know a guy who knows a guy. - Yeah. So we get to lose that Certainly from the point what you have to gain is that, you get to, not erase, but detoxify the past. I mean, what happened, happened. But if you ever have an with your adult child that means that whatever you may have been berating yourself been corrected or atoned for, or. - [Daniel] Reconciled. - Reconciled, so in the present moment, you're just there in the present moment, not burdened by the past. So that's, not to mention of being in interaction with and always have loved the sheer joy of the interaction. - So as we sit here right now, Gabor, I'll start with you, how you feel about each other, and potential roadblocks or obstacles that are for the two of you. - Well Daniel and I really arduous process of It took us two and a half years. It was the biggest challenge of my life, and I could not have And it was a challenge, of bringing this material to but also a challenge And, I have tremendous gratitude because I could not have been done books, done without him. Tremendous love for for what he's taught me in the process. Occasionally, but a lot of worrying me as to when will I step on the next landmine that's gonna blow up in my face, in this relationship, and all of a sudden we'll have a scene on our hands, like we did a month ago on a public stage in New York. - It wasn't an explosive scene, but it was hostile. - Hey, did you just interrupt me? - Yeah. - Oh, okay. - Guess where I learned it. (laughs) - But certainly not for about a month since the book launch, and I've been traveling but landing in New York last night, and then being picked up and then having dinner, for the two hours from the and I commented on this to in our relationship at the moment. I don't wanna predict that but it's just a really welcome I'm not worried about And I'm not walking on any kind of my easily triggerable son, so, I'm just tremendously enjoying That's how it is right now. We'll see what it's like tonight, but that's what it is right now. You asked about right now? Right now, that's how it is. - You espouse the importance of present. So you're answering me - Yeah, with a little bit of Yeah, I mean, I feel to you, Dad, for which was already pretty of its impact and its scope. I've been really enjoying You know, it's not yours, that it's not yours, it's mine. And I'm feeling more secure. I mean, and what was happening out, is that all my insecurities about it were coming up to be detoxified, really. And I was acting them out, I mean, it was a little chaotic for I was having all kinds of flareups. But the reality of it actually, And if I can hold my own, then And then I'm not so concerned And here's the other thing when I actually sort through and all of the traumatic a whole bunch of really lovely memories, of the vibe that we're describing now. The ease, the playfulness, you know, fisticuffs. We used to wrestle together, And I just love, he could He told me stories. I delighted in his cleverness. He was playful and spontaneous. And that was not only occasionally, right? It's just that the inconsistency that created, you know, a wound. But when I can tend to the wounds, then the healthy flesh is also there, and I can draw on it to, you know, continue and expand that stuff. And now I'm an adult, so it's - We have three rapid fire to ask you, we ask all of our So the first one is to grant our viewers and our listeners, what would you wish for them? - Wake up. - And Daniel, what about one wish that you could grant for yourself? - I can't grant the viewers a wish? - If you'd like to. - I would grant the viewers a fresh start at whatever they're sick of. An experience of something new. Not having your worst What would I wish for myself? I mean, it's kind of banal, but, as many more years as possible to enjoy this ride, and - Gabor, would you like - Yeah. It's that I find the presence that has nothing to do with what I do in the world, that is unconditional, and - And finally, for either or both of you, what would you like our to take away, one thing if only one thing today? - What a couple of swell guys. (laughs) - Yeah. The possibility of depth, and learning, and transformation is always present. - How it is is not your fault. How it could be, you have no idea. And saying yes to what is, and You were about to interrupt me - But I didn't, you don't notice. - I did. - I didn't interrupt you. - I did notice. - Yeah, great. - Next time, I'd rather Sorry, this little vaudeville - Okay, that's it. I'm sick of this conversation, it's over. - So finally, if people your separate and collective endeavors, where can they find you? - So separately, I am Daniel I am at walkwithdaniel.com, out more about what this danielmate.com, if you wanna check out my musical theater stuff. And as far as speaking oh, he's at drgabormate.com, and compassionateinquiry.com of, you know, therapeutic We have a website that's We're gonna be updating it soon, as we start writing this book. Your Instagram is gabormatemd, your Twitter is drgabormate. - Well Gabor and Daniel, Thank you for making the time today. - Our pleasure as well, thank you so much. - Will you stop speaking for me, Father? (laughs) - Okay, my pleasure. He hated it. I loved it. - Well, and mine as as well. (laughs) - Thank you both. - Thank you. - Such a gift. - [Cali] Thanks for dropping If you like what you see, please subscribe to this YouTube channel. To listen to the audio find us on Apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. &quot;Dropping In&quot; is made possible in part by the support of Omega members. Omega members enjoy a host when they donate to help To learn more, visit eOmega.org/membership and check out our many online featuring your favorite at eOmega.org/onlinelearning. I'm Cali Alpert, producer Our video editor is Grannell Knox. The music and mix are by Scott Mueller. Thanks for dropping in. (mellow music)