The world is dying. We are no longer have fallen to ruin as friends and predators. Faceless monsters guard the ruins, dignity. Humans are going extinct. And Hello, Internet! Welcome to Film Theory the fun gentlemen, it's that time again. Time for the about video games here on the film and TV channel. League of Legends and Pokemon before it, is turned into a fantastic movie or TV show. from your toybox that's ours. ha ha ha at myself with this joke? I'm in charge of In case you're not a l33t gamr like all The Last of Us started its life in 2013 for cinematic storytelling in the medium. daughter trying to survive a world devastated by as a pivotal piece of gaming history. The we too can have emotional movie quality stories. had plenty of other amazing stories in the past. story both reached a point where no one could game was so good that Sony just had to release all in under ten years, no less. And here we Anyway, now here in 2023, the dramatic prestige prestige streaming series. In fact, as both and I were lucky enough to get invited to the but considering the amount of free popcorn Hey, you invite me to a place where I'm getting going to make you hurt. So after meeting who also happened to be fans of Food Theory, that was a fun little twist. And then It was time for the show! Honest review: It's great. I get nervous whenever but I've got to admit they nailed it. Sure, which we're going to talk about here in a second, but it never detracted from the core story. video-game-bad-movie Curse is not a real thing Though to be fair, we didn't Now, as you might have guessed at this point, differently from your usual apocalyptic scenario. virus that's spread through bites, but not so much that it's all a fungus. In fact, the show why a fungal pandemic would be terrifying, using The fungus this scientist is talking which we've actually talked about multiple It is terrifying stuff, but something right? I mean, the show claims that But then they ask, what if that changes? Man, HBO sure loves using zombie invasions If only Westeros had reduced its greenhouse is how quickly things fall apart in the world felt like over the course of just a day or two, their brains hijacked by a fungus like it was zombie runners are in houses in the streets, And it's here that we actually get to one of new series, as well as our main theory for today. HBO series The Last of Us? You see in the game, control so quickly was through the use of spores. of Us game are able to spread infection to new new series. There's this really great, horrifying woman's mouth to infect someone else. It is YEEEESS this series GETS IT. But in addition to of the cordyceps were able to infect new people the infected. And this creates a huge threat for game where our protagonist, Joel, has to wear a all times, just in case. So, yeah, that's the way the show had airborne spores. But it doesn't. One worked on the series Chernobyl for HBO, which had gas masks. Mazin found that it was more difficult by a bunch of safety equipment. Hence Joel's No, no, you're not, Stephanie. These babies are But if it's not spores, then what is it? What's has to be some sort of an explanation. So I dived hoping to find some answers. And though I didn't a challenge. in the official HBO Max Last Excuse me? Careful viewers? Do you know who years poring over every frame of movies and analyzing it. You challenge me to search and I I did! I found the answer to how exactly this And true to the creator's word, it was in the along. How did the world of the Last of Us end? used to bake those cookies. Allow me to explain. is this line right here: In the background radio broadcast that specifically talks It's in Indonesia Joel, learn some geography. me as odd. Why, there, of all places? It seemed beaches and tropical architecture, Jakarta also the world. This behemoth run by P.T. Bogasari it's able to produce more than 4 million tons of through flour products. Of course, there's Hey, guys, this is a future MatPat here. So this first episode. But ah, episode 2 actually gave situation in the show. That is very often the ongoing series. Anyway, episode 2's Cold Open University of Indonesia is taking a look at one this infected person came from, quote; "a flour And then under her breath, the professor in case you don't know, is a surface or material grow and obtain nourishment. Basically, this the reason for the cordyceps outbreak in the there's still a ton of fun evidence here in the past MatPat now so you can keep watching and be and then released the video a week later. all over Texas: in Dallas, Houston, San Antonio place. With so many mills throughout Texas, just like we saw with Jakarta. But fungi in is usually made from wheat or other grains. So how but you know mold? the gross stuff that grows too long? That is a type of fungus. So if the there's likely some fungus mixed in there. Even sometimes contain fungus. According to one study, flour. This study took 19 flour samples and 11 Kansas, Nebraska and the Pacific Northwest. ranged from 85 to 8,100 per gram and between 90 spoilage of the product was not the source of a fungus can indeed be inside freshly milled flour thinking that flour is sus, I rewatched the little details starting to add up. All throughout eat anything flour based. To the point where Sarah planed to make Joel pancakes, she can't After school when Sarah visits she turns down an offer to eat a cookie. and raisins are just awful lies masquerading may have meant that Sarah missed a big ol bite to raise some eyebrows. But the coincidences just they realize that he's forgotten to pick up the And earlier in the day, they saw Mr. Adler feeding offers some of the extras to Sarah and Joel, they Atkins is, of course, a fad diet that recommends Joel isn't actually on Atkins here, given his it's still an interesting thing for the show to parts of the first episode set after the outbreak, made from flour. There's this big open crowd shot isn't any bread scraps on Ellie's empty plate only thing that we see anyone consuming is Joel very far out of its way to never show us its main Hey, this is future MatPat over here again, with episode 2. We do actually get someone eating bread sandwich, which makes sense because she's immune and Tessa are eating? Jerky, no bread. I thought pointing out. The only immune person is eating Just cool Little Easter eggs that I found while too late. Curse you extended editing pipeline! the fungus just die off while being baked? Yes. According to the United States Department of sensitive to heat. Normally, they can be destroyed or 60 to 71 degrees Celsius. And most set somewhere between 325 and 350 Fahrenheit temperatures. Even the most heat resistant fungi can only survive temperatures of 239 degrees fungi in the production lines of baked goods According to a study published in Food Research goods after they'd been baked than anywhere they say that the highest fungal counts were seen right after they'd come out of the oven and were spent that whole opening scene pointing out that higher temperatures, it's entirely plausible that with all of that in mind, I can't help but look rabbit hole to begin with. And you know what the face the entire time. Do you remember exactly Breadcrumbs huh? like flour based breadcrumbs? those cheeky sons of a gun. And just to put the you know what they were talking about got them to start talking about these little They were discussing the elderly neighbor, the being fed biscuits. The evidence has mounted TV show fell apart because the cordyceps to be able to take root in humans, and then flour. The next time you see anyone in the show to be on the chopping block. So Joel. I Your Atkins diet might be saving But hey! If you want to learn more about the check out our Game Theory, Talking about how infection. Or if you want more of a strategy guide check out our video explaining why musicians quiet place. As always, don't forget to button so you never miss a new theory. shows coming out this year that I can't wait remember, it's all just a theory,