All right. We're checking out the only game where you can make enough money to literally buy your way out of death. It's Investment Run. That's right. Either you make enough So, the idea is just like any human being, you start life with a pot on your head and a back brace made of stacks of cash. And then you have to-- Oh, God. Then you have to pick what to invest in. It was either TikTok or Vine, Vine has not been making And eventually you ride into bonus money. And it looks like there's, like, I don't even know. I'm not gonna lie, I just don't know if it would do anything because I'm pretty sure Twitter or Facebook? I don't know, Twitter. Which one's doing better? Well, actually Twitter A whole 8% on that. Big stack of cash. Get my tires flattened, which apparently I don't know why. I love how if I step on something Well, I guess, that is true. You would lose money that way. Mostly because I have to pay Oh, yeah, Then you have-- What is this? What are they? Like-- [laughs] What are they? Like, gr-- People will tri-- Like, groping me for my money. Solar energy, 189% increase on that. Whether or not it's the right thing I don't think that taxis Oh, our stack is actually getting so tall, it has removed itself from the stratosphere. I wonder if I can get to the-- Oh. Oh, I got it. I'm at the-- What are you doing? What's this? Oh, you have to actually fly So, yeah, I got the solid golden helicopter and it brought me to a private island, It's like a dog house in here. So, I have to mention something real quick. You think that if I could've spent the money and bought a solid gold helicopter, I could have a bigger house than, I'm not even sure I'm short I can spend some money Well, yeah, sure. There we go. Crash? It's not, like, a crash. It's, like, I have to, like, roller-skate What is that? Oh, Microsoft Edge or Chrome. No one uses Edge on purpose, do they? Even the game doesn't think so. All right, I'm already wearing sunglasses. That means that I'm-I'm clearly successful. Is that-is that a golden rocket? How come all of my means And of course, now I can unlock the prize. It's it's basically, like, I never win anything though. So, I've got to buy it just regularly. Cost a $1,000? What level is this? Bonus level? Oh, whoa. It's like I'm tripping on acid. Look at all the colors. Oh, yeah. Oh, you get stacks of cash in this level. Okay. Did I win? What is this? Party, find love, travel, What decides-what decides where I go? Where did I go to? I'm going to party. How come everyone's wearing party u-like, I'm dressed up like the monopoly guy. On the plus side, I made so much money What are these? What was that-- How-Oh, you kick it. Okay. Bitcoin or, like, dollars? I don't know, Bitcoin. The coins gotta be All right, so don't get your feet stabbed. And grab all this. At least now I know You have kick them like you hate them, and then take the money I love how on the wheel, the prizes- Right now, my private island I guess. I really need to think about how much fuel considering the only way over there is, Oh, Marvel or DC. [laughs] Oh, it's gonna be Marvel. It's gonna be Marvel all day Yeah. Oh, don't go in. 20% tax. Uh, yeah, we'll do times two here. I still can't get to the rocket yet. I'm trying. Is that the devil? Oh, it's not the devil. It's a bathing suit. I don't know what is this? What-- Is this-is this more important right now? We're in the middle of summer, Oh, that's pretty awesome. Maybe it knows what day it is. Okay, go around here. And Yahoo or Google? All right. Well, considering I'm, like, I'm guessing Google is the right way to-- So, if I-if I hit a woman, do they take money from me What happens if I invest in the dollar? Oh, it's the US dollar. I'm screwed then. That's not doing very well right now. All right, ride the money. Ride the money. [groans] God, everything is so violent in this game. NASA or SpaceX? Uh, do people invest in NASA? I don't even know if that's something It's, like, a government agency, isn't it? Okay. So, the answer is always Bitcoin. So, that should get us pretty good stacks. Oh, yeah. Oh, our money is going straight upward. Eventually we're gonna take out, like, an airliner with Tell me I can make it to the-- Yeah. I love that I have to get to my-- [laughs] I love that I have to get And then the rocket just crashes Um, what can I buy for my island today? Oh, nothing? I can increase my starting cash though. All right. Big briefcase. Big briefcase. Lots of money. Giant briefcase. McDonald's or Chuck E. Cheese? I've seen one Chuck E. Cheese in my area and all of the people All right, I'm the Monopoly guy again. That's always a good sign I'm going to ride a motorcycle to victory. Sure, this looks totally safe. At least I didn't leave Oh, I can buy a-- A plant for $1,000? It's not even-- Like, I'm taking the boat. Oh, yeah, there we go. My favorite color too. Like, Pepto Bismol pink. There's one thing I love to do, it's going to work and vomit Look at that stack. It may actually be Hotels or Airbnb? Airbnb. Oh, yeah, 75 times over. 75% I'm pretty sure that my stack Oh, yeah, look at the height. Back to the, uh, And you actually Is that-- That's interesting. All right. Yeet us over here. Yeet us over here. Broke? Broke what? What's broke? What happens if I hit these women? They do. They take all of your money. Coke or Pepsi? I-- Coke? Wow, Coke is the right answer. I was gonna say, that's, like, I have to evade taxes real quick. Great. [laughs] You learn such valuable lessons. All right, Uber or Taxi? Yeah, I think we know which one actually 248% over taxis, What is this? A plant or a-- Is that a-- Is that, like, a jacuzzi? I don't know what that is. I have to get it, It is. It's a pool, kind of. It looks more like an aquatic holding cell. It's like solitary confinement, All right. We've got all the investors All right. So, kick the thing. Yeah. If you kick it perfectly straight, I'm now basic. Coal or solar? We're gonna go for the solar. Gonna yeet over all the arrows, So, if I hit this, does it, like, Oh, it doesn't, Oh, yeah, times two, times four, times five. Now I actually understand What's the skulls? Oh. Oh, God, they murder you. Oh. Oh, so now I'm doing, It's, like, emeralds, basically. Okay, who is this? Ronaldo or Messi? Uh, Messi? Wow, I was wrong there. Chest of money. Don't want even slightly resembling a relationship. That would be terrible. I love how it-- It's always, like-- Oh. It's always like that in all these games. You always wanna stay away from everyone. I now have a fountain It kinda just looks like my driveway is vomiting out blue raspberry slushies. All right. I changed it back to money, I love nice, cold, hard stacks. I do like the skulls though, waiting to ruthlessly murder me. Spotify or radio? I wanna see also, like, Like, right now we're decently high, but I feel like you can get way, All I want is to win this plant. I won it. Oh, I won the plant. My life is complete. Where do you put the plant? Oh, it just sits here. Like, in the-in the area right Late at night, heading to Las Vegas. This seems like a terrible place to go to, Netflix or Blockbuster? [laughs] Oh, I can ac-- I do-- I can actually gamble, and as we know, gambling is always the answer in life. Never mind. It was a terrible choice to make. Wind or coal? Probably coal, but I'm gonna try wind. All right. Well, wind it is. I know coal isn't doing great right now, but I didn't think wind I got to the rocket. This means that I'm going to pollute The fish are gonna be They're gonna be like, &quot;What-what And Jimmy's gonna be like, &quot;Rocket fuel.&quot; All right, we're doing all of the gambling. Yeah, 25,000. Come on, baby. 25,000. I'm already rich. Does anything actually go past rich? Like, I know eventually but I don't know if there's anything I'm gonna keep-I'm gonna keep gambling. I lost $10,000. That makes me really sad. [laughs] I gotta pick a-- [laughs] Oh, how come only five of those sold? It looks so awesome. How could this be? I hate to say it, but, like, Now with all the NFTs and everything, I'm kind of surprised stick figure wasn't the right answer there. King Of Hearts says don't break Watch out for the random That's kind of interesting. Around here. Grab all this. Laugh at taxis. All right, motorcycle. We're gonna be real good friends. Told you. Yeet. I'm making a lot of money Can I ever just buy a bigger island though? Always gamble. Always gamble. Am I literally crying? Wow. I actually died from gambling, I love how it's called 'Loose.' [laughs] I'm not stopping this. Okay. I'm still gonna gamble. I've gotta-- Here we go. I was gonna say I've gotta win eventually. All right, Dunkin' Donuts or Starbucks? I'm gonna invest in Starbucks. I have a feeling that this game but they just said, &quot;Screw it. We do what I want, because-because they're not gonna Don't you try and violate Come on, helicopter. Yay, we're good friends again. I'm an executive. And I got every single piece of money. I just found a shrub. That was my prize. I couldn't-I couldn't have asked You know what else lives on this island? Loneliness. Never mind. I totally made the-- Yeah, I made the right choice. Never mind. All right, watch this. Get both of those. Still find time to gamble. Eventually, I'm gonna get this yacht, I'm gonna get these spotlights who comes here without an invitation. More starting cash. Oh, God. [stammers] I almost got, like, uh, [laughs] All right, yeah. And then-- I don't know. Let's try Dunkin' Donuts. Starbucks did okay last time. But I'm kind of curious how Dunkin Oh, they're kind of just staying You'll notice that I have a fantastic Prince Valiant haircut now. The guy's wife was tired of watching him across the pacific Walmart or Amazon? Amazon, especially right now, Oh, that brought me all the way up to basic. All right, cell phones. This is clearly the answer. I don't even own a regular phone anymore. I guess, the question on everyone's mind is, &quot;Do you eventually get Also, do I really need a yacht Yes, of course, you do. You'll not get me, taxes. Red Bull or Monster? Oh, man, I don't know. Oh, Red Bull, baby. That was kind of a- I don't really drink either of them. Big stacks. Okay. So, you go from poor, to broke, to basic, to rich. And what comes after that? I'm definitely gonna get it. Like, we're getting a ton of money here. All right, slide down. Cut my feet up for no reason. I think it's wealthy that's last. All right, For the dog I don't have. Maybe I just put the guests out there. Wealthy. I also look like a Christmas elf. I don't understand pure unadulterated wealth. I love how the jet stream, Actually, it follows a investment pattern. [chuckles] This is the way Everything revolves around investing. Literally, everything. Brittany or Beyonce? I-- Beyonce. Obviously. They yeet us. Grab that. I don't know how I caught I'm still not wearing That's bad. If you don't wear the elf outfit, there's no way you get to fly Oh, I didn't get the palm tree prize. I'm Floridian. That's the one thing I can't allow to go by. I guess, I'll buy this tree in the meantime. The fact that I didn't get-- Hold on. Oh-oh, yeah. Apple or Nokia? [chuckles] Nokia. Well, why not? I feel kind of bad for them. All right. Soccer kick this. Grab all the money that was laying inside that clearly doesn't belong And dodge all this. Oh, no. [sighs] What was funny is while I was riding I was still in the- because I had just gotten taxed 20% Okay, I can already see This should be-- Whoa. This should be big money. Here we go. McDonald's. That's gonna be over 100% 153% right there. Into TikTok. Now, our money is gonna go right past the, the-the stratosphere over here. And cumulus clouds, Don't want that 20% I've got the elven uniform over here, which means we're 100% going to be taking the helicopter of power over to the-like, which is basically just where I go I really can't do anything else here. All there is is enough space The one thing I need to make I can't even be recognized by any of my ridiculously All right, kick this, perfect. Kick this slightly over to the right. Even better. Once again, She also makes me rich, which is nice. Come on, Spotify. Daddy needs a new yacht, apparently. Okay, I can finally buy the palm trees. I feel a little bit better about Google just went up 206% I can buy a dog deck I feel, kind of, good about that. Really, I-- Like, I erected this dog house, and it's been doing There was no living creature Nike or Adidas? Nike? Oh, yeah, Nike's the way to go. I have got a gigantic tower And as I have arrived I can buy some lily pads or a golf course. I guess, we'll go full Florida. Ford or Tesla? I'm sorry, Ford. It's not my fault. 234% oh, my God. Oh, the investments are huge. And finally, I have bought a yacht that will sit because I never come to my island. Well, I guess, in his golden doghouse, sad and alone. Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed Until the next time,