Here are 40 free APIs that you can use Let's go. Stock photos are actually high quality This way you can write code for like your blog post if you want to experiment with your own is pretty good for changing thumbnails, You could do some AB testing to see which one gets the best Do dynamic titles, whatever. the classic modern day Disney plus Paramount plus YouTube. What I like about this one is that it's like a search engine Great. For building your own project pricing is insane. 1000 requests per month is good enough. If you have a simple application that Pantry lets you store 100 megabytes to it. Kind of like tiny DB for python and Canadian to. This one is super niche, but clear, if that's something you need. So if I make a CTP request If this is something you care about. The wife who API lets my favorite end point is ooh or fi. So if I need a simple request I can put it through there gamers. The internet game database has a free API that you can use and it's owned by Twitch, So it's actually a really intense search for game My favorite Discord channel talked about using the IG DB Why not? The Discord API lets you build in your channels on my Discord Channel we have OGE Roy, people up. I mean, mid Journey does it. And there's SDK if you want to get up to date world news for your application, Okay. It needs to chill out though. 50 points per day then. No more calls. prices are crazy expensive. So make sure you're making money If you're testing an app, then you'll Random data generator doesn't require an API key And it lets It's probably just using fake but if you want to use that foreign exchange rates is annoying, but with this API But if you get the free one, then So pretty worth it. and any sort of payment context you're going to have to deal So this one is free and fair. Awesome. Civics aspects. I don't know So when your app does something to another app or somewhere else, You have to sign up, but it is free so pretty awesome There. Kroger lets you put in text and then it outputs as a diagram So this database one right here is handy, so you can use for a blog post I love this. Thanks. Exascale for kindly offering to servers. Sounds funny. Only two servers. Yes, you can connect to Google docs Some examples are using the data on for the side of Google Docs Google Docs. Who knew? Status codes are boring, but http status I really like this for a three You can just call it And there you have it. I'd be kind of annoyed if I had to This cute So when you enter an address with text, into Google Maps Well, Google Maps can for a big dollar. Gioco has 2500 free API requests daily, So especially if you're testing I'm able to build a lot of these examples with Machina, which is the sponsor GPT four is by far and with the machine that extension quickly since it indexes the whole project without having to copy and says it has a 32 K context length. I can just add a huge amount in, which helps me build And since this video talks a lot I can grab the Gioco simple project which will find a way I've been using jet brains my entire life, right into my jet brains. Ed is great. Thanks. Smashing that for sponsoring Ticketmaster has an API. Interesting. since Ticketmaster has a monopoly this API is good to search for events basically what you can view on the app So it's somewhat useful. The irony behind I love PDF actually with a burning fiery passion. I love PDF pdfs, they have libraries and ruby node php, I tried so so hard to find an API And this is the best one I got. cloud cover. It will give you folks. It If this is a functionality in your app, the cheapest option. But if it's only between two specific file just automated with python or something, This one is kind of unique. alarm unless you run but it comes with an API that you can Lomita, Mistral or Lava is all available. So if you're building privacy centric apps This API is called free dictionary API. I'll give you one guess. This doesn't require an API key either So props to them. You could probably use this or if you highlight a word, without getting roasted in your group Hey, look, it's the API Java or react, jokes aside open weather is goaded 1000 per day and very reliable. I mean, who actually needs weather data? I don't know could be a cool way to connect So I don't know, use out your discretion. if you want to build a training bot, then this is the API that I used for a lot of the core functions whatever is all there It's okay. They even have data on wheat, I guess in case the Amish people start did. I open source that yet Yahoo Finance I'm convinced of it. Now this one is weird have an API for Yahoo Finance, the Why Well most of the time. Get historical data on stocks. honestly So props to the maintainer. The deck of Cards because it's like not if you're wanting to make a game this is perfect. It has a lot of different end points and is honestly pretty damn cute. An end point where you draw two cards Then there's piles, shuffling decks, Okay, sorry. Maybe. Maybe it's a bit complex. I used to work with WordPress It has a rest API attached to it So if you want to start a website also want to do that This is a great way of doing that. Honestly, without the plugins, I said it, I said it, I said it. Spotify has a really popular API that The pennies if you created a serverless function listen to your song every 30 minutes, then it'd be a cool little feature Podcast Index lets however, the part I care about It gives you the URL you can download and just have a lot of fun So you can like do some fun things with AI with the one word out of time thing. deep. Graham is a speech to text API and what's really cool about this tool word Summarize audio sentiment You do have to sign up for an account Obviously, Not bad at all. Honestly, I built a project where I would speed up Zen quotes, I know you probably use this don't need a key. And honestly, it's a great way or a silly Easter egg in your discord bot beyond simple. Call the API, get the quote lots I just learned go with it. Open food facts is awesome and it'll give you all of the information I actually built an app last week a whole lot from scratch It's pretty awesome. Stripe. How else can you flex on YouTube? the Stripe API is revolutionary. I don't really need to tell you It's really easy to get started with it If you wanted to build a store I mean, it's not free, 2.9% If you want free, you could probably use Resend make sending emails extremely easy. It seems silly, but you should have seen the things I did simple integration in your code, as well as the ability I know this seems silly. But email still uses html table here one last thing though. Resend your calling Am I the only one thinking this trace dot to retrieve the animate series 1000 monthly quota. It's all open source I'm sorry if you're a programmer you're being lapped by these people. Just give up I'm throwing all of these And that is your favorite app. most of the time. Softwares like notion, obsidian, JIRA and for me to do list have an API The reason I'm batching this into number you provide. And if that software isn't free, Alpaca is the most popular way It's API is really well documented For me, It has a ton of different SDK different programing language. which isn't free, kind of is. Nassau has a ton of APIs where do I even begin with this APIs Weather observation data. There's so much to explore here that to be fair, I also do very stupid things. You don't need an API key, and this data is some of the only data Maybe for video games or something. The movie TV is like IMDB, One of my favorite apps is Letterboxd and it reminds me of how this API for movie lovers So if you're building a small application have fun. And there's a lot of different wrappers and a ton of different programing Dates helps you deal with dates if it's a leap year, etc.. if you have a project that needs one tiny like arrow for Python or moment, JS So one API end point might be perfect before number 40. If you're new here, We just have 500,000 subscribers So thank you so much. the Open Sky Network lets Similar to those accounts. I have been banned for it for open data. It's available in python and java Okay, let's deploy that way. Food bot. towns how