Today you learn some advanced In case you're brand new to pivot tables, make sure you watch this video first. It also explains with an example why pivot tables are so great. Today we're going to and cover some advanced tricks that some of which I I'm curious what you think. And if you already knew all of these, let me know in the comments. Let's jump in. (upbeat music) Tip number one, adjust To show you what that is, let's quickly insert a pivot table. So I have here some sales data for different products, I'm going to go to insert, This data here is already formatted as an Excel table called table sales. I'm going to insert a pivot and click on okay. This is the default view you have when you create pivot tables, If you go to tools here, you can select field section This is the view I prefer to have because it's easier to organize things. You can also adjust You can sort them A to Z or sort them in the data source order. This is really helpful, especially if you have a lot of fields. Tip number two, create multiple So here I want to create for each single customer. I can do that with one click. Let's set up the first report. I want product in the rows and I'm going to add the Before I do that one click, let's update the formatting of this. I want to add 1000 separator to this and I also want to sort So right mouse click, Now comes the part with one click because I want to create different reports for each single customer. Currently, I have four of these. Instead of doing this manually, I'm going to go to pivot go to options and show This brings up anything it's customer name, click on okay and I get multiple One is for Aida, then Each of these are to different Double-click to view details. What I forgot to show in was the ability to So in case you're wondering what makes up a specific all you have to do is double-click on it and you're going to The sum of sales USD here is 84,580. If I switch back to the pivot You get the details with a double-click. Add data bars to your pivot tables. Here I have the different Let's say I want to Just go to home, conditional formatting, Here's the important selection. Instead of selected cells, you want to go with all cells showing in the header of your pivot table column. This is what's going to make you dynamic. All based on the size of your pivot table, format style is data bar. If you only want to show the bar and you don't want to show the numbers, place a check mark here adjust the color, and click on okay. Now we have the data bars sear. We can replace this. I'm just going to add a space. Now here's something When I right mouse click and refresh this, everything is going to collapse because the default is to make the column with dynamic. You'd want to change that in this case. So I'm going to go to pivot table analyze, go-to pivot table options and uncheck auto-fill Now I'm going to expand When I right mouse click and refresh, it's not going to collapse. In case you also want in a separate column, you can just add it again Adjust the title, update the Number five, create calculated fields. To add a calculated field go to pivot table analyze, you're going to see calculated field. Here you can give your fields a name. I'm going to call mine adjusted sales. Now that formula can involve In this case, I'm going to that's going to take my sales USD, so all I have to do is double-click it to see it in the formula bar. And I'm going to multiply So I'm going to increase it by 10%. Once you're done, click on add and you're going to see the new field right here, click on okay. That's my adjusted sales field. Now that I have a new I'm able to use it in my other reports. To remove a calculated fields, go back to calculated fields options, go to the drop down here. You're going to see your and then click on delete and okay. Calculate the difference between columns. In this case my source data has information for June and July only. And I want to calculate between these two months. First of all, I'm going to add This is automatically going to and I'm going to be able to Well, I don't want that drill down. So I'm just going to kick and leave it with months. Now we're going to you between the two. Well, I can add the to the values field. And then I'm going to right mouse show values as difference from. So notice we also have I'm going to go with difference from. Here's important to pick It says product description, That's not what I want. I want to calculate the difference from my July and June columns. I'm going to change that base item is previous. Now this doesn't mean the previous month. It means the previous column. In this example it happens to So that's fine click on okay. I get my difference. All I need to do, is Call this difference. Tip number seven, smart An alternative to conditional is to use custom formatting. So right mouse click, go to number format. This ensures that your based on the pivot table size, go to custom and add So in this case I'm going to use symbols for positive and negative numbers. Use the shortcut key Windows You can also copy and paste symbols from the clipboard into this box. I'll just search for the up arrow. That's what I want to show then add a semi-colon. Now, if the number is negative, I'm also going to add color go with red in square brackets. For the up arrow, I'm going to add the code color 10 and put this in square brackets. And okay, now I've disguised This is dynamic. If I add customer name to this, everything updates accordingly. Number eight, create your Let's say I want to split into three separate groups. I want to have a women, To create that, just select right mouse click and group. You get a second field that also shows up on your pivot table that you can rename this as you like. I'm going to call mine main category and call this group one that the men group. Now I want to add a women group as well. So I'm just going to select right mouse click and group, rename this to women. The rest is something that I'm just going to select select the rest, right and call this other. Now you can also arrange I'm going to grab other and bring Now you have this new category that you can use in your reports. Number nine, group dates as you need. In this case, I want to take So I'm going to bring Now it automatically brings And it would have brought in the years if I had data for different years. In this case I just have data In case I just want to I can get rid of the months. But what if I want to have Just right mouse click, go to group, and you can decide if you want to have your groups based on or based on days. So let's say I want to take every five days. I'm going to add a five day And I've created my own Tip number 10, add a To add a timeline, go and insert timeline. So in the previous video that I did, we took a look at insert slicer. If you're curious how this works make sure you check out that video. Now we're going to go ahead This is going to give you a list of fields that are date fields. I just have one, it's the document date, click on okay. Now I immediately get a when you select a month, notice the data changes and You also have the ability You can switch your view years or even just days. This way you can take a or select multiple days. Whenever you want to remove your timeline, you just have to delete it. So this wraps up my favorite that are more on the advanced side. If you have tips of your own, please share these in the comments. Many thanks for watching. I hope you found this useful. Don't forget to hit that And also if you're new to this channel welcome and subscribe before you leave. And I'm going to see (upbeat music)