- Hello, everybody, and welcome back to another video. Now in today's episode, yes, it is time to revisit the 90s Mystery Custom Built PC. If you guys missed the last this machine was very generously who goes by the name The Desert Lad. Thank you very much once again. And although he originally told me that this was a machine from the 1980s, it turned out to be a mid 90s Cyrix 6x86 custom built PC, Now in the original video, I was not able to fully boot this thing up because I did not have because yes, the motherboard in here is an AT form factor motherboard. And unfortunately, we had to end it there. But I did say that I was gonna order one of these right here, and it came in finally. So, we're gonna be able to get past that keyboard error, and see what's on the hard drive. I'm hoping there's something on here. It'd be really cool if I'm gonna guess Windows 95. But perhaps, it's And maybe there's nothing on it. If there's nothing on it, we because, well, that's what Before we get to that though, I do wanna highlight that a couple of you guys pointed And that is that the graphics card, the original graphics was not seated properly. I didn't notice this but once that was pointed out to me, I went and looked back at yeah, I think it is. So I went ahead and put the original made sure it was seated properly, turned on the machine, So that entire video, that of trying to figure out why it wasn't booting up, and I ended up changing the GPU out, it could have been solved by just re-seating the graphics card. Hey, I guess that's what happens when you overthink things, right? But you know what? I'm glad that we opened because it was cool to I've personally never owned one of these Cyrix 6x86 base systems before. And it needed to be cleaned too. I mean, especially the power supply, and as you guys saw, that So I was glad to open So, let's go ahead and grab turn the computer around, and we can plug this on the board right there. Now as for the PS/2 keyboard there's really only one possible answer. We thought this was a 1980s So, why not make it 1980s related somehow? Yes, we're gonna be using the beast, the titan, the amazing, the Just amazing keyboard. As for the mouse, we're just using this, you know, this old Dell PS/2 mouse, I mean, you know, who cares? (switch clicks) (fan running) And there we go. We got lights on the keyboard, and Windows 98, okay. So that gives us a timeframe in 1998. And now it's going through the I think I just saw a Comic And that makes me very concerned. Oh no, I think that is Comic Sans. I'm seeing a couple things. I'm seeing two Internet Explorer icons. We've got Netscape Navigator. But we've got like a theme applied. I mean, check this out, First of all, there's &quot;hard drive&quot;, which is not normally there. I would assume this would it might just be renamed. The Recycle Bin icon is different. I have no idea what So let's just browse around here. First thing I wanna do is So we got what looks like some... (keyboard buttons clicking) Oh yeah, these are like Oh my gosh! What the, is this? (laughs) What the... What is this? (laughs) Oh, that might be some, I I might have to blur that out. Yeah, there's a bunch Internet Explorer Wallpaper, J. It's just the letter J. Why would you want that as a wallpaper? Plus, okay. So we could have Red Blocks, dang. This looks like, look Oh my gosh! It's giving me like a Virtual Boy vibe. Yeah, we're gonna spend the entire video on the I mean, look, there's so un- okay, untitled, we Okay, these are clearly And oh yeah there's okay. So it wants to log on, connect to... So we've got Winlogo, style wallpaper, Yosemite, Arcade, Arches. I think we're gonna set it to Winlogo. So apparently then name of was Terry. So that's the user account there. It just auto logged in, by the way, didn't have to put in Microsoft Office, Wolfenstein 3D. New fol... Oh, come on. You got me excited WOLF... You can't name a folder WOLF 3D and not have Wolfenstein Okay, we got QuickBooks. This might have been used Best of Entertainment, ooh okay. So we got the Best of Yeah, check that out. I'm trying to click on this to launch it and it's not letting me, Microsoft Word. Okay, well I can just So now we're launching Microsoft Word. Okay, so the license information there indicated that this was indeed a business it recovered a Word document. Oh my gosh! So this is a letter to Santa So this was probably their kids, I guess, &quot;Dear Santa, I am not I am in *this other location* Their address is, *their love&quot; and then their names. Oh my gosh, that is amazing that it was able to recover that. I mean, 'cause, you know, when was the last time this I mean that's insane, well, We're gonna do a Control the fact that it recovered it is amazing and oh yeah, we got a So we can check the dates I see 12-6-97- CHRISTMAS PARTY! You know, that's generic enough. So I won't have to blur that out. CHRISTMASPARTY 12-6-97. So that gives us a timeframe. Let's just save this as Oh man, this is gonna Yeah, this is hands down one when I get any vintage and see what was on it when this thing was because this is like a I mean, if we go into My Documents here, let's go to this hard drive icon. That does open up My the My Computer icon to hard drive. So we'll go into the C drive here. It looks like we have a We've got a DOS folder. We have a million temp files, oh my gosh. Let's look for COMMAND.COM. There it is. So we got a DOS installation on here. And I'm honestly guessing what was that? That was in the Start Menu here. There was a folder that seemed program group. Yeah, Applications right here, which has QBASIC and Learning and Applications was a default So this very well could have and then to 98. Okay, we have a win95 That's telling me, that yep, So I'm trying- 'cause you would've probably got Windows 95, unless you already had a lying around. I mean, the fact that we've called Applications leads me to believe this used to run Windows 3.1. Perhaps the hard drive and then it was moved to this one. Then they upgraded to 95 and then to 98. 'Cause we can confirm on the hard drive that it otherwise, why would it be there? And I'm seeing some HP HP scheduler, maybe, HP info. Oh yeah, I wanna see what the deal is with these two IE icons on the desktop. So this one here. Okay, so we've got a Plus! Microsoft Internet\IEXPLORE.EXE, And this one here, isn't I mean, it's probably just the, like the IE icon you can would be my guess IE 5, okay. This is a customized version What version of Netscape Netscape Navigator 3. 95, 96, man. Well, so far looking at- I haven't sorted the files And I haven't even opened So of course, 2022 is that I just made. In 2002, June 17th, 2002 at 10:32 a.m. is when the last document was modified. And the oldest document in and it's called New Yep, that's just a new just nothing in here. Just saved a blank and So okay, New Folder, I don't This does not look like anything. Yep. There's nothing. What is- okay, I wanna Okay, this is My Network Places, yeah, this is My Network Places, probably one of Terry's on the desktop by mistake and how to change it back. AOL Instant Messenger, okay I wanna see, let's see if somebody's AIM Like if it was gonna auto log in, obviously it's not gonna but let's just see what happens. Sign On, Connecting, it's Oh, I thought it was like username in here, that Oh, there it is, right there! Let's go to setup here. This is version 3.0 it's got so none of that was changed. Buddy... Oh, there's the buddy list, oh my gosh! Look at that. Oh my gosh, that's the buddy list. I can't believe. Oh, that's awesome. So here's all this person's buddies that they were talking to and it looks like they they didn't sort them in these categories. You know, part of me doesn't but I mean, I know that I have to. Come on I mean, there's so This has to be wiped. This is kind of like the last hurrah, like we're going through here, If there is anything like that I've never seen I have no idea what this is. I mean, if there's anything that's not personal data that like there's no copy I will archive that obviously But I mean, when it there's no exceptions. I mean, you gotta make So what is this? &quot;777 Slots is a three wheel Ultis- I thought that this said Ubisoft. Ultisoft Incorporated, You've reached the end triple seven Slots. Evaluation is limited to or 500 spins, whatever comes first. Okay, so it was the program uses, they only got the 189 spins, okay. So yeah, we can't do Highly doubt you'll be able So we looked at My Documents. Let's look at the Terry this will have more documents in it. And we've got a single file called Rave. Modified February 21st, 2000. I don't know why it's like, that's the only thing in Let us see what else? Oh yeah, let's go back into Programs here. So WOLF 3D, unfortunately, AOL Instant Messenger, we Oh yeah, here's that HP Desk Jet software, HP Internet Connection Enrollments. Oh yeah, and again, I can't like, I cannot click to launch this. This is very, this is very interesting. I don't know how that's set up. I've not experienced that A small investment of your of your speed recognition, okay. Do I have a microphone that 'Cause this would be All right. (microphone interference noise) Don't do that.(laughs) All right, I'm gonna turn this on again and not have it up- So I'm gonna record the room noise. Okay. And then we're gonna continue and say, &quot;I'm testing my microphone set up.&quot; I am testing my microphone set up. Hey, that's much better, isn't it? Okay. Do I have a signal adapter? No, I do not. Microphone Connection Complete, hurray. Say the displayed words as Process. Process. Automatic. Automatic. Towards. Towards. Towards. [louder] Towards. Lastly. Before. Thousand, okay. Please complete quick I have never used this program before. This is rather interesting. Click start then dictate You should speak clearly to get the best recognition accuracy. [louder] Full stop. (laughs) Okay, I just had to do that, I'm sorry. You should speak clearly, to get the best recognition You need to say all such as comma and full stop, comma when you need them full stop. All right, so I've been about this IBM ViaVoice program and this is absolutely a It's pretty awesome, it was developed until in mid 2000s. I went through the microphone setup again and did it properly and And so now we're gonna go through, &quot;You must record 100 sentences or train your enrollment. Remember training is the second step to complete the enrollment process. Training creates a personal to improve recognition.&quot; You know what, what the (the signature MJD timelapse music) So we're not gonna I mean, it will improve that's gonna take, I maybe I'll just subject and just recording all of these phrases, but we're gonna go to train now, process your recordings takes 20 to 60 minutes, okay. So we'll do that, 'cause I I mean, this is pretty cool. What, why is no, no, no, no, no. Why is it doing this again? Don't tell me I'm gonna have I already set all of that What? (laughs) What the heck? What happened? What happened to my 100 sentences? What I was saying is there's That's on YouTube and it talks but it was really neat. I mean, it was speech recognition on an older IBM PC from the 80s and it was like an advertisement for, actually it wasn't a product by then. It was like an initiative at And so maybe this is what came from that. Yeah, I don't know what exactly it did. It says please complete quick tra... I mean it's still running, but like, yeah, I just did all of this. What is it doing? Yeah, save the user and information. Like why? I don't understand what I did, Why is it? I just close out of quick training. All right, I'm getting tired of this I've tried to deal with but oh my gosh, it gets really annoying. I am not an auto-hide Taskbar kinda guy. I have pressed the right click a few seconds ago. We're still waiting for it to, yeah, the hard drive. We've got a lot of hard drive Properties auto hide off, thank you. So it's still like is the Okay, I don't want to Do you wanna save? Yes, I wanna save user information. That hard drive is like, it is like the read/write heads Like, is it not responding Yeah, it is not responding. I don't know what exactly I mean you guys saw what it said. Like, hey, okay, it's gotta process this. So it'll take 20 to 60 minutes. Okay, and then I, it did well, it just started And I'm afraid if I kill the process, we're gonna lose everything So I think I'll just leave it there, oh. And it's- Oh my gosh... It just lost everything. Oh my gosh, that is really annoying. All right, well I guess maybe a little bit later on because I'm kind of frustrated that I spent all that time setting that up and it just screwed up It just didn't save any of that. So, okay, yeah, that's IBM ViaVoice. When it works it sounds like Oh boy, okay. So we got Lotus SmartSuite, Net-It Now! Starter Edition, what is this? Readme and you got upgrades, &quot;The perfect Web publishing companion to your Windows software application. Using Net-It Now SE you can transform regular office document that users can view and print.&quot; Okay, it's licensed to work that makes sense, and we So it's interesting they've got Lotus and Microsoft Office on here. I guess they were perhaps to Microsoft Office or Oh my gosh, the hard drive is spinning up, like it is constant... I mean like the hard drive light indicator is just on permanently. Is something running in the Oh my gosh, look at all this stuff running in the background, holy... Oh, we got AIM, I mean I'm gonna have to check Like what on Earth do with their computer. Year 2000, oh boy. You know they're serious in the Help menu. And so it gives you a If you hadn't heard it about The Net-It Now SE dialogue box opens when you print a document to Okay. See if it's even in here, might Oh, what the heck? That was slightly horrifying, oh, it just, (gibberish sound). There was an error printing to LPT1 for the printer Net-It Now. There's a problem printing due Okay, but this came up. Okay, so let's just save it to C:\ Waiting for print file, okay. Oh, the entire- I think the Yep, I think it did. I'm not hearing any and the hard drive light is completely off and I can't do Control + Alt + Delete. I can't even turn on Yep, we've locked up. All right, let's reset. Microsoft Windows 98. All right, so we're back and I guess we're gonna try that again. Okay, select a folder in which you wanna build your document. Okay, we'll just put it to the C drive. C\windows\desktop. Folder isn't empty, yes. All right, so it appears to have done it. It should be on our desktop here. Oh, (gibberish sound) And yeah, there it is. There is our amazing document there. I mean, I didn't realize but hey, that's pretty cool. Moving all those files and right here. Let's go through here just one more time just to make sure I touched on everything. Colorado Backup. I guarantee you has to Best of Entertainment Pack, I've covered on this channel before. And the last thing that is QuickBooks. I'm not gonna bother trying to that there's gonna be and just private info. And so I'm just gonna and not try to get in. This will be wiped as I mentioned with Darik's Boot and Nuke especially because QuickBooks Pro is on here, which will contain employee information, which will have personal like social security numbers So we're gonna of and I'm thinking we're because I don't have an NT 4 system or a system running NT 4 right now. So yeah, we'll do that. If you guys wanna see a video on that, I mean, I could definitely do it. Be sure to let me know what you think. But as for now, that's gonna I really hope you guys enjoyed this one. If you did be sure to give it a thumbs up, get subscribed down below, all that good stuff. Huge thank you again to really appreciate your very and huge thanks to all As always, I will see (outro music)