Stepping inside the Guardian Building You're surrounded by colorful Top to bottom - wall to wall. The entire building is filled with pieces that Easily making it one of the most beloved It's difficult to imagine the or how people would react to losing it. But only 4 years after the Building Because in 1933, the owners of the After years of struggling, the Union Becoming another victim of the Great Depression. This immediately sent shockwaves through most prominent financial institutions shut So how am I standing in their former It's a remarkable story. Today we'll look at the history of the Guardian To understand why it was [Detroit Icons Intro] Dynamic Detroit has the people who know Detroit USA This is the city of Detroit. So there's a ton of different designs But one of the cool ones you can see There's a tile that makes a U and a T shape. The reason behind this is because of the And without Union Trust. None of this is here Like the name suggests Union Trust An important part of the It's all built off a simple arrangement. Say you have assets or an estate that But you don't want to hand You only want to give them Instead of trying to manage you agree to let someone else do All trusts follow this sequence to the trustee, and finally the beneficiary. These types of contracts but their role in business isn't uniform. The laws and regulations change from place to Which is why Michigan didn't have They simply weren't allowed. Even after they were permitted, the first trust Leaving the largest city in the state untouched. So in 1891, Union Trust was established to fill the void The success was almost instant. To say Union Trust tapped into the The company quickly expanded beyond trusts adding new departments and offering new services As a result, Union Trust catered to many different This allowed Union Trust to grow from within, instead of relying on mergers So only a few years after its creation Union Trust already solidified its position as Its quick growth proved the company was full And it was clear to see to even causal observers. In 1892, the company ran ads in the Detroit Free about $15 million today. Four years later, they opened their brand new or about $24.4 million today. It was a major milestone that not only It boosted the company's prestige. With rumors spreading that other property owners wanted to invest downtown to keep up The development of Union Trust And based off the headlines the company made, But as impressive as the growth was, Although the Michigan Manufacturer and of Union Trust as "A Humble Beginning", Its founding members were some of the and arguably the state. The list of founders included a sitting and possibly 88 more of Detroit's wealthiest Giving Union Trust access to as well as intangible resources such But the company did grow even as And entering the 1920s, the company By the early 1920s, Union Trust It had more wealth, different leaders, and But one of the things that stayed the A building constructed when the company And by 1925, there wasn't any space left. After years of working around this, the company They needed a new building. One that not only solved their space problem, Normally companies try to achieve this while cost, and location. Often searching for a solution that Of course, Union Trust wasn't normal. They secured half a block of land in a prime $20 million today, just to acquire 4 This activity caught the attention of the press, Instead, the president of Union Trust even promising "it will be a big one". A big statement only a few months after the It was a bold decision to be so but Union Trust was willing to go above And in the design phase, they consistently When the company hired designers for the project They hired arguably the best architects in the city. Choosing Wirt Rowland and the firm Smith Hinchman The company also didn't interfere They emphasized a few principles of Union Trust and allowed the architects to figure out Rowland did occasionally run his but every time the feedback was enthusiastic. At one point the company's president told him "If you think that... is what we should have Clearly giving Rowland the green light. Rowland's vision for the building was Making it a suitable headquarters and banking space while also matching it with Listing all the things that made the design In Rowland's original design the building included Two vaults for safety deposit boxes and bank assets a barbershop for men, a salon for women, a massive gate completely constructed out of Monel metal, a fully functional gun range in one of the basements, an open air observation deck, a board room overlooking the Detroit Financial District, and 40 foot vaulted ceilings in the main banking area and lobby. Just to name a few things. Every inch was packed with detail. And requiring precise coordination from It's not only hard to believe but it only took Rowland and the other Union Trust loved what Rowland did, immediately They revealed the building to the public with But they advertised it with a more fitting one. The Cathedral of Finance. A nickname that has stuck ever since. The company wanted to bring Rowland's So soon after the public announcement, Construction on what was then the Union Trust Beginning with the demolition of and ending with the Union Trust This took longer than other projects in the But considering how much work was required, The building's extravagant design made from both a technological and logistical standpoint. Things like sourcing rare materials, the and installing one of the first air all added time to the project. But the biggest issue by far was figuring out how to support the In most skyscrapers, columns run from the And in heavier buildings, they can But as you can clearly see there's no A major portion of the building. To avoid having columns run the upper floors are also supported by 8 Each of them weighing between 55 and placed in this blueprint and you can see It was a brilliant solution from SHG's engineer William Wolfe. But of course it was still a challenge to implement. Requiring crews to install each truss in 3 phases to avoid any alterations or distortions In the end all the hard work paid off, and the The Union Trust Building instantly became the With its highest roof standing 496 feet, or With construction complete, the company was Running full page ads in the Detroit inviting the public to the grand opening. It was a moment of celebration. Not only On the first day, a reported 25-30,000 people showed up to get an For some, the building was another With them praising the design Others saw it as a symbol for the city's growth. Reinforcing the idea that Detroit was as strong as ever, and that it was clear that investors believed that as well. The city's population had exponentially increased And if this was what the city was like In the fall months of 1929, the New York Stock resulting in a recession that affected The Great Depression was the longest Lasting at least a decade in the US alone. Millions of people lost their jobs, their This would have ripple effects in the Detroit But for a moment, the company didn't appear From the outside looking in, it seemed to be doing just fine. Union Trust had participated in Acquiring the National Bank of Commerce in 1928 Just one month before the Wall Street Collapse. These moves increased the company's assets With the company even taking on a new name, transforming Despite all this activity and expansion, the The reality was, the company was Union Trust started showing more and more And by February of 1933, it was clear that Its parent company, the Guardian Group, But Michigan's own senator fought against this. Refusing to give loans to a bank primarily Without the loans from the federal government, the bank quickly approached state leaders The state government didn't offer any The governor could declare a bank holiday, temporarily suspending all bank operations in the state. This would give Union Guardian Trust and prevent panicked customers from But unless the company could actually it was only a matter of time before it collapsed. It was the only real option the company had. And by this point, the state was interested in The Michigan Banking Holiday is viewed by many experts as a leading cause of the 1933 bank crisis. With people in other cities like Indianapolis and Cleveland fearing potential failures in their own banks leading to mass hysteria and a More than 37 states went on to suspend banking activity after Governor Comstock's holiday declaration. Ultimately leading to a national bank from March 6th to March 13th of that year. In 1974, Princeton Professor Lester and at the root of it was the As many wondered how one of the largest banks in the city, one the largest in the nation, could possibly fail. And if anything could have been done to avoid it. Multiple hearings were held to answer this, but most of it turned into finger pointing and blame shifting. Union Trust blamed the politicians Politicians blamed the company's poor business practices with local papers covering the entire situation. Decades later in 1985, Goldman Sachs partner Barrie Wigmore analyzed the crisis and criticized the federal response. But in the same book, he described the company as "the [bank] most heavily committed to real estate, the weakest bank in the city, and the one whose closing precipitated the Michigan bank holiday". As the weeks and months went and Detroit focused on weathering As Union Guardian Trust entered a never opening for business again. Both lawmakers and business leaders to understand what banking The changes made afterwards strengthened but it couldn't fully restore what cities lost. A thing that was clear in Detroit, as Union Trust But the building wasn't abandoned. Although the Union Trust Building it was still open and accepting Because while the building legally it was owned by a subsidiary It did technically co-own the but after a settlement in December 1933 the Guardian Group had no more liability for The New Union Building Company was still in business. As long as they could pay off the mortgage. From here it becomes tough to know the state of Based on ads and articles the building still had many tenants and played host to countless events after Union Trust became insolvent. But things such as occupancy rate or the financial During this period, there were two officially renamed the building And the US military's use of the building. With other tenants agreeing to move out, the military had complete control over Using it as a command center Although this was a large tenant The New Union Building Company would later sue the The actual outcome of the suit isn't clear, but showing signs of financial issues, before Selling to a single bidder And with it one of the last connections between Union Trust and the Guardian Building was finally severed. Although the connection to Union Trust was lost, The building continued to stay open, changing owners multiple times throughout The building was still primarily used as an office resulting in what the building is today. Sometimes these were functional additions or the Sterling Group converting a large The motivation behind other Like one owner covering the 1st floor windows allegedly removing the word Union off The building maintains a lot of its grandeur after all the changes and nearly 100 years of existence. And that's really the point. The Guardian Building was To stand out from the crowd and truly to Even though the company behind its the building has still succeeded at As people from around the area, and even around While it is unfortunate that the Guardian the fact that it's still standing Especially as other historic or have fallen victim to the elements or time. The Guardian Building has and even a military command Not even when Detroit was going And while it does have quite the legacy, my Thank you so much for watching my video. It definitely took longer than But I'm so happy with the final product and I'm This project required a lot of work but a lot of this wouldn't have been And I do have to give those people thanks. First and foremost, I have to give a huge thank Not only for letting me go in but helping me out throughout And even showing me the original There used to be free tours on Before ya know everything shutdown. And I'm not sure if those but if you're in the area or that's make sure to be on the lookout for that. I also have to give a huge thank you to for letting me use a lot their photos I wasn't sure they were gonna to say yes to that but I was so grateful for it because it helps Especially, because ya know obviously clearly I wasn't there. So having access to that And the final thank you I just wanna give is Even if they weren't, you The amount of encouragement and support Because, ya know, I haven't So to see people still commenting and liking If you like this style of content, I do have more things planned for the future. If you have any questions about please be sure to leave them in the comments. I will be making a follow up video for this and I will be launching a Patreon and I will put that in the On it, I'll be doing things like, you kind of explaining what it took to make and As well as giving downloads to If you're not in a position to financially Take care of yourself first. And if you don't want to support me This is really just for people who wanna a bit interested in what I do beyond Anyway that's all I wanted to say and and for watching this video. And wherever you're at, whatever you're doing, I truly do wish the best for you and