Before Prime launched in 2005 one-day Now it's the standard shipping speed members. Earlier this year Amazon doubled two days to one. And the faster speed is now available Prime one-day is basically going to A) guys and B) enhance Prime. Amazon has changed So what they excel at is getting an flawlessly as they can and So Amazon is changing people's improving those expectations. But behind every Amazon box there are lots money spent to get it to Here's what happens when you buy Amazon spends tens of billions In just the last quarter of 23%, reaching a record $9 billion. So why is it worth it? Well customers come to expect consistent from Amazon. And our job is to And Amazon set aside $800 million just start making one-day Most of that investment is transportation costs associated with speeding of Prime customers who are about to normal. The difference with e-commerce is The pick, pack and ship happens every To better control this process and its its reliance on UPS and the U.S. Postal Service and is investing heavily It now handles the shipping Amazon now has at least 50 vans and it operates ocean and China. Amazon is looking to do it all. That shouldn't be much of a surprise. The only thing that matters to Amazon and is paying for Prime What that means is sometimes you can rely sure that you have it in your Other big retailers are also spending a shipping expectations Amazon Walmart is rolling out free next-day shipping more starting today. And target offers free two-day shipping And during Amazon's big Prime Day sales plans to hold a crash sale Amazon's 25 years old. The reality is that's a really short time number one player. So can anyone compete? Sure people can compete. Can they sustainably compete I don't think we've seen it yet. The journey a package takes to your order. Most items on Amazon are sold In Jeff Bezos' letter to shareholders sales have grown from 3% of total 2018. Amazon charges those sellers a starting around 15% of Amazon also sells things directly. In some cases Amazon buys inventory from to consumers. Other items are Amazon's own brands Essentials, fashion lines like Lark &amp; Ro All items sold directly by Amazon warehouse waiting to be Most third-party items fulfilled by Amazon Amazon warehouse, while others are sent directly Amazon warehouse once you hit Amazon does not disclose the Figuring out where a product sits before mystery. It's something that every And figuring out the code that is process. After an item is ordered and ready centers around the globe, it's picked, packaged 250,000 warehouse workers often with help It's essentially an amusement There's conveyor belts that go It looks like a lot of fun. But the question is: how much is labor? And that suite, blending that, figuring human touch points while ensuring the perpetual conversation. We visited a fulfillment center outside packages on a couple million Workers here showed us the process of a box. We scan the item and make sure that hand that's on the screen and then And then there's cameras here that take of where we place the item. I am a picker so I pick product that department and then they pack it out I need to put it into a box. It actually tells me what Tape. Put the item in there. Scan it through. Drop Amazon says it's 100,000 robots inside this whole process more efficient. In 2012 Amazon bought robotics company using robots in its fulfillment Now there's driving robots that move lift boxes and pallets and even a custom-sized boxes. If it wasn't for them then I'd have to in my own little world picking So I love the robots. As technology continues to change just announced it will spend $700 million workforce by 2025 to move After an order leaves the fulfillment center country or world to another Some boxes are sent via one of costs by sending packages in at least dozens of its own planes. We've been building out an air network That coupled with our partners networks, we're in incremental capacity to be able to faster than we were two Amazon broke ground on a new 1.5 billion dollar air hub in It has capacity for 100 planes. One of the great things about customers divinely discontent. You give them the They love it. But they always want We're going to move Prime from two-day to part of that. After an item arrives near your city this one for a delivery person to pick it your door. We've been building for over 20 eventually just constantly getting faster and migrate to a one-day service. The big difference for us is all fulfillment center to Last-mile is the most expensive Until an item arrives at a warehouse near bulk. But then each package needs to address, which takes a lot of Amazon pays to outsource much of and USPS, which charge a fee, In January the post office increased to 12% depending on package size. The more Amazon can keep last-mile control these costs. To do that Amazon uses small 20,000 Amazon vans. And in 2015 it launched Amazon Flex. I've been driving for Amazon Flex roughly since least two solid years. Amazon Flex is available cities. Anyone over 21 with a least a mid-size sedan can sign up. After clearing a basic background check, can start picking up Drivers use the Flex app to sign up to six hours. Then they head to a warehouse where been assigned to deliver Amazon advertises that drivers make $18 responsible for their own vehicle costs Amazon wouldn't disclose how many drivers percentage of its last-mile deliveries are to its shipping partners. But it did tell us their We've built out these small businesses, we have Flex which is So we need all of that to meet the of our geographies and I think you're there. Amazon has one unusual approach to partners helping with last-mile. Amazon says it will contribute as full-time employees want to leave the delivery services. Early response is great. It allows us to complement the capacity carrier partners. It's great for some of our employees who that they've been doing in the warehouse want to learn some new skills taking us up on this. Amazon is also looking at several mile delivery. In June, Amazon announced its new operating within months and it has a We're building fully electric drones that can deliver packages under five pounds to Amazon also has patents out for a can react to flailing And it's even testing a sidewalk right to your door. All these steps are an incredible recent years, Amazon has faced an working conditions at every We spoke to several The working conditions at Amazon I've worked in five different buildings coast to coast and It might not be outright exploitation but workforce. It's been so pervasive that many of the at our airlines are Last year Amazon raised the minimum wage 350,000 U.S. employees, more than double the In his annual letter to shareholders, top retail companies to match this. And Amazon offers generous benefits. I needed my medical insurance. That's what's essentially kept But some workers, most who asked expects them to keep up They say that they care But no, it's really You have to make not only a certain minutes of time-off-task per day Usually most buildings are at You could be walking three to five So if you went to the bathroom twice minutes. So a lot of people CNBC was connected to Fuller through Store Union. Although he's not a union member. We asked Amazon about the We have world class facilities, we We have break rooms. We have TVs. Anybody who is watching, don't Please come take a tour I'll put us up Do you feel like the pace that workers Well our, the way we look at expectations. In every job, my job expectations. The way we set the rates actual performance and the overwhelming majority meet those expectations. Warehouse workers told us their productivity how often they scan a package. Workers told us they can get written Amazon also has patents for a workers' movements and breaks. I think too often people look at this Big Brother tracking an employee And you know really almost all the other types of things like that, device. Workers can lose their jobs if At one warehouse in Baltimore, The 300 full-time associates in a one-year inefficiency. Amazon said in a statement terminations have decreased over the last facility as well as Amazon workers are under attack. What do There have been several protests in the where Amazon workers have In orientation they That was the number one thing. Safety. And you get In the UK, ambulances were called to to 2018. In April, the National Council identified Amazon as one of a in seven months and But Amazon says that last year alone improvements at fulfillment centers and its of safety training. As Amazon increases the shipping speed, to be more fair, equitable and Well I'm incredibly proud of the safety of our leadership team on safety. Any incident is one too many and together and figure out what happened and get eliminate anything from occurring Amazon Air is another area where growth challenges. Amazon-branded planes are flown Air, ABX and Southern Air. These airlines negotiate contracts And five of these pilots told since their airlines started As a result of Amazon being such a put a very strong pressure on our pay and working conditions as pilots. Dan Wells heads up the They protested outside Amazon's annual They also spoke out in April against near the new Amazon air hub. We have a hard time There's a tremendous amount of turnover reduces experience and creates a lot of frustration, which certainly distracts people In February, an Amazon Air plane Houston, killing all The cause of the crash is Transportation Safety Board findings showing control of the plane. In interviews with Business Insider pilots said they thought They cited low wages that made training they considered shoddy, Pilots that are working for schedules and scheduling changes All of those things have added to system that we fly in. In a statement Amazon said, &quot;All comply with the Amazon Supplier Code Administration regulations. We take seriously any allegation that those requirements and expectations Workers bringing packages that last mile to is a concern. One reason: Amazon doesn't provide Flex to identify them. I'm pulling up to this house and I get guy just comes running out like, and he's talking so fast and I You know I'm a Puerto Rican guy in what if he just comes out and questions? You know that was my fear. After another delivery where he says charge at him, Jonathan paid 45 dollars out sweater on Etsy. I think Amazon the least they could do it a little bit safer and make delivering. I've gotten a lot of mean glares this guy? He's just in front of my driveway or he's He's just wearing a yellow vest.&quot; You don't even have to just, I do it because at In a statement Amazon said, &quot;They are we have available for them in the route which can help And some drivers told us the way driving because it requires drivers to their next assignment. If you want to get blocks then you button in the app But how do you do So it encourages people to In a statement Amazon says, &quot;Safety is our our safe driving record. We regularly communicate a variety of driving practices with drivers. Amazon Flex participants can also sign up in advance through the Amazon is working to ease the burden with high-tech solutions like those drones its fulfillment centers are Our focus on automation has really been that can be most Remove the most tedious task, remove that be lifting large containers or associate so they don't have to selection in order to find But for now Amazon still relies on people one day. And with expectations for will need to continue innovating We will see shipping The announcement that Amazon is going certain regions we have it That's not going to stop. And what's absolutely critical is any the sand even if it's Amazon. We'll see the competition That's the one guarantee