Did you know that dogs are still eaten in South Korea? Or that some South Korean families hire experts to name their babies? Without a doubt, South Korea is one of the most striking and different countries for anyone from the West. If you were in Seoul, you might be surprised that a good percentage of men wear makeup, that couples can dress to match, or perhaps you would think who has had plastic surgery, since in South Korea it is quite normal for someone to have surgery to improve their appearance. But these are not the only curiosities of South Korea, we have compiled the most striking data of this surprising country; stay until the end because they are really amazing! 1. Half of the more than 50 million South Koreans live in the metropolitan area of Seoul, its capital. This is the second most populous metropolitan area in the world, behind only Tokyo, in Japan. 2.The monthly minimum wage in South Korea, based on 209 hours of work, is about 2 million won, or about $1,618. 3. In South Korea they are superstitious with the number 4, in fact the elevators number floors 1, 2, 3,... and F. This is because in Korean the symbol for the number 4 is part of the symbol that means natural death . 4. South Korea has its own style of popular music, it is K-Pop, a mixture of pop, hip hop, electronic music and rock. Musician Psy 's song &quot;Gagnam Style&quot; was the first to reach a billion views on YouTube. 5. South Korea is one of the world's biggest makeup havens. In its capital, Seoul, there are entire districts of makeup stores. Something peculiar is that in this country about 20% of men also use makeup regularly. 6. In Korea, it is considered that the baby is already one year old at birth, so you will have one more year there. 7.In South Korea it is normal to walk with your partner hand in hand or put your hand on her, but it is not okay to kiss in public. 8.An important rule in South Korea is not to speak ill of other people. If you defame someone you could get into trouble and among other things be fired from your job. 9.If you are going to meet someone South Korean and you have doubts about how to proceed, take a bow. It is a traditional gesture that conveys respect. 10.A culture shock for Westerners is that in South Korea it is okay to wear very short skirts, but showing your shoulders or cleavage is considered a sign of promiscuity. 11.In South Korea it is mandatory to do military service between 18 and 35 years of age, for 21 months. 12. Koreans consider dental hygiene very important and carry their toothbrushes everywhere. It is certain that you will find them brushing their teeth in airports, restaurants or shopping malls. 13.Unlike in the Nordic countries, in South Korea there is very little personal space. Strangers can feel comfortable next to you in elevators, trains or buses. 14.In South Korea it is normal for the bride and groom to go out wearing exactly the same clothes. 15.In Korean weddings rice is not thrown at the bride and groom, family members throw chestnuts at the bride and each one that she catches in her hanbok represents a child she will have. 16.Almost half of Koreans have the surname Kim, Lee or Park. The most common boy names are MinJoon, SeoJoon, and Yejun. While for the girls there are Seoyeon, Seoyun and Jiwoo. 17.The red-crowned crane, also called the red-crowned crane, is considered a symbol of luck, fidelity and longevity in South Korea. 18. Some of the most famous Youtube channels in South Korea are jflamusic, pony syndrome, hongyu asmr and jane asmr. Yes, asmr channels are really popular in South Korea. 19.Soju is the typical distilled alcoholic beverage in South Korea. It is made from rice and is similar to vodka, although somewhat sweeter. Its alcoholic strength is between 20 and 45%. 20.In South Korea there are two days of Love, one like in the West is Valentine's Day (February 14), but only women give chocolates to their husbands or boyfriends. Then there is White Day (March 14), where the men are the ones who give the gifts. 21.In South Korea there is also a day for singles, it is Black Day, on April 14. On this day, bachelors mourn their misadventures by eating a dish called jajangmyeon, noodles with black soy sauce. 22.How are you in Korean it is pronounced "otokechineseo", hello it is "anogaseo", thank you it is "kamsaamida". 23.A very popular greeting in South Korea, instead of How are you?, it is Have you eaten well?. This comes from the old days when food was scarce. 24.In the past, beards were characteristic of Korean men, but today they are considered unsightly and a sign of poor hygiene. 25. South Koreans, like many other Asians, do not like to sunbathe, their standard of beauty is pale skin, so they avoid tanning. 26.In Suwon, in South Korea, there is the Cultural Park of the Bath, where the act of lightening the belly is paid tribute. 27.In Seoul is the PooPoo Land, a theme park dedicated to poop. There are fart machines, gut maze and poop slide, plus poo-shaped snacks like ice cream and cookies for sale. 28.In South Korea they have a superstition that if you give a pair of shoes to your partner, they will use them to get out of the relationship. 29.In Korea there is an old superstition that if you flip a fish, a ship on the high seas will capsize and lose its crew. 30. The South Korean film Parasite, directed by Bong Joon-ho, was the first foreign language film to win the Oscar for Best Picture. Its two protagonists are called Park So Dam and Choi Woo-shik, both South Koreans. 31. Some of the most famous men in South Korea are singer PSY, actors Lee min ho and Song Joong ki, and host Yoo Jae suk. 32. Some of the most famous women are actress and model Jun Ji-hyun, singer Hyuna, singer and actress Im Yoon ah, and singer Suzy. 33.In Seoul's bustling Myeong-dong, a shopping area packed with international brands and local cosmetics stores, there's a Cat Cafe. If you love cats, here you will enjoy your coffee or tea surrounded by lots of them. 34. South Korea also has its tough side. South Koreans sleep an average of just 5-6 hours a day and work an average of 55 hours a week. It is a very competitive society. 35.Corned meat or spam, also called lunch meat, is highly prized in South Korea. This originated in the Korean War, where meat was scarce and Koreans traded with American soldiers for their cans of meat. 36. If you have a housewarming party in South Korea, you will receive lots of toilet paper and laundry soap, they are the typical gifts for this occasion. 37.When you visit South Korea and require a snack, ask for beondegi. They are seasoned silkworm larvae , boiled or steamed, crispy and soft. 38.Jokbal is a highly appreciated dish in South Korea. It is prepared with boneless pork feet, cut into slices and boiled with leeks, soy sauce, ginger, sugar and rice wine. 39. Another typical dish is Dakbal, chicken feet that are seasoned with sesame paste and hot red pepper. 40. Surely it will exceed your gastronomic capacity, but try to try the hongeo, which is fermented raw skate. It smells like ammonia and some people say the smell is "reminiscent of a latrine". 41. In South Korea they eat dog. The dish is called bosintang, a dog meat stew with vegetables and spices. 42. Nothing healthier than seafood! So when you go to South Korea ask for gaebul. They are live marine worms that are cut directly into pieces and served to you very fresh. 43. Koreans definitely appreciate fresh food, so much so that they eat the octopus alive. It is known as sannakji. 44. In South Korea, home delivery has been normal for years. Also, certain types of Korean food such as jajangmyeon (black noodles) are delivered with plates and cutlery. You leave them outside your door and the delivery man will come by to pick them up. 45.The largest company in South Korea and one of the largest in the world is Samsung Electronics. It is responsible for nearly a fifth of Korea's industrial output. 46.Korea is one of the countries where alcoholic beverages are consumed the most and has no restrictions on drinking in public places. 47.In South Korea they are extremely respectful of traffic laws. A pedestrian will not cross a street before the traffic light indication, even if the street is deserted. 48.Kimchi is a staple food in Korean cuisine, made up of vegetables such as cabbage, radish and cucumbers, accompanied by ground red pepper, garlic, onions and others. It is part of many recipes in this country, it is said that there are hundreds of types of kimchi. 49.In South Korea there is Haesindang Park, which is full of penis statues and also a penis-themed restaurant in Deulmusae. 50.In Korea there are jakmyeong-ga or creators of names, to whom families go to find an original name that suits the baby like a glove . The names are very poetic, for example, Eun-Yeong, &quot;Kind Flower&quot; 51. In this country it is common to &quot;reenact the crime&quot;, that is, they take the criminal in handcuffs to stage the crime he committed and in the presence of the media Communication. 52.In this country they have a strong belief that if a person sleeps in a totally closed room with a fan on, they can die. Just in case, Korean fans have a timer function to turn themselves off. 53.In Jeju, the largest island in South Korea, there are giant stone statues called dol hareubang (stone grandfather). There is a belief that if newly married women touch their noses, they will have many children. 54.South Korea is one of the countries where the most plastic surgeries are performed in the world. It is estimated that around a third of women in Seoul have undergone some cosmetic surgical procedure. 55.South Korea has 710 robots for every 10,000 workers, when the world average is 85. 56.The South Koreans share with the Japanese a special interest in each person's blood type. According to this belief the blood type determines the personality, something similar to the belief in the horoscope. 57. Koreans love sweet potatoes and consume them in many ways, there are sweet potato fries, sweet potato sweets, sweet potato bread and it is even an ingredient in pizzas. 58. Something extremely curious is that some Koreans are not happy with their eyes. 20% of young women have a blepharoplasty to create a double eyelid and thus appear more Western eyes. 59.Shinsegae department store in Centum City, Busan, is the largest department store in South Korea and perhaps the largest in the world. 60. 14% of children between 9 and 12 years old have Internet addiction. For this reason, the law called Shutdown or Cinderella was approved, which prohibits children under 16 years of age from accessing online gaming sites. 61. South Korea is the second largest producer of seaweed in the world with some 800 thousand tons of three different species. It is only surpassed by China. 62.The Mugunghwa or Rose of Sharon is the national flower of South Korea. In the national anthem, South Korea is compared to this flower. 63. The flag of South Korea has a great philosophical symbolism, representing peace with white, in the center yin and yang, as well as the 4 elements: water, earth, fire and sky. 64.The national animal of South Korea is the Siberian tiger or Amur tiger, according to the Koreans, the Korean peninsula has the shape of an attacking tiger. 65.In South Korea there are fewer and fewer marriages and the divorce rate rose in 2019 to 2.2 separations per 1,000 inhabitants, 0.1 more than in 2018. 66.While the life expectancy of women is from 85.7, men reach 79.7. Also, there are almost as many men as women, only 0.07% in favor of men. 67.This is one of the countries with the lowest percentage of children with respect to its total population, only 12.75% of its slightly more than 50 million inhabitants are under 15 years of age. In addition, its birth rate is the lowest in the world, only 0.98 children per woman! 68.In Jeju Island, women traditionally go out to work while their husbands stay at home. They are called haenyeo ("women of the sea"), whose job it is to dive for sea urchins, abalone or abalone, and octopus. 69.There is a tradition of placing a rope with peppers or chillies or pine needles through the door of the house when a child is born, to protect it from bad influences. This string lasts there for the baby's first 3 weeks. 70.The biggest birthday party in South Korea is Hwangap, when people turn 60 (61 in Korean age). It is considered that the 60-year lunar cycle has been completed and a new stage begins. 71.In Gyeongju there is the Cheomseongdae or Tower looking at the stars, the oldest observatory in East Asia, built in the 7th century. 72.The famous martial art called taekwondo is from Korea and its name means &quot;the way of the fist and the foot&quot;. It most likely began around 2,000 years ago and became an official Olympic sport in 2002. 73. Another Korean martial art is taekkyon, which mixes kicks, catches and sweeps with delicate movements that integrate acrobatics and music, something similar. to Brazilian capoeira. 74. Of the 100 best golfers in the world, 38 are South Korean. Lydia Ko set the world record in 2013 for the youngest woman to win a professional tournament, at just 14 years old. 75.Technically, South Korea has been in conflict with North Korea since 1953, as no peace treaty has ever been signed. 76. Some of the places in South Korea that you must visit are Seokguram, an artificial Buddhist grotto built in the 8th century with a great Buddha and the Bulguksa, a Buddhist temple in Gyeongju. Both Cultural Heritage of Humanity. 77.In South Korea it is traditional to fly kites and on the last day of the new moon in the celebration of the Lunar New Year they release the kites so that their bad luck goes with them. 78.Olympic figure skater Yuna Kim, known as Queen Yuna, is one of the most recognized and mediated athletes in South Korea. She was a gold medal winner in 2010 and champion in numerous events between 2005 and 2016. 79. In South Korea, Christmas is celebrated and Santa Claus or Santa Kulloso (grandfather Santa) arrives. However, in this country Santa does not necessarily wear red, sometimes he wears blue. 80.The most expensive and highest quality restaurant in Seoul is Jungsik Seoul with two Michelin stars, from the famous chef Jungsik Yim. A plate there will cost you between 53 and 160 dollars. 81.The Seoul subway is one of the busiest in the world. To get people to come in they have specially hired people to push them around. Yes, with much respect. 82.Since 1998, the Boryeong Mud Festival has been held, attracting millions of visitors. There are mud pools , mud slides, a mud prison, and mud ski competitions. 83.Teokbokki is a traditional dish that comes from the imperial kitchen and today is street food. It is rice cake, meat, vegetables, eggs and condiments, and today gochujang, an extremely spicy paste, is added to it. 84.The largest stone labyrinth in the world (5.3 kilometers) is in Maze Land on Jeju Island. 85.In South Korea there is the largest indoor theme park in the world and the second most visited in South Korea, it is Lotte World. It receives around 8 million annual visitors. 86.In the city of Yongin is Everland, the largest and most visited park in South Korea and also the third largest theme park in the world. 87.The largest water park in the world is in South Korea, it is Caribbean Bay and is part of the Everland complex. 88. The Jeju Volcanic Island and Lava Chimneys are a World Natural Heritage Site and the highest mountain in South Korea is located there. It is the Halla-san or Hallasan, a dormant volcano 1,950 meters above sea level. 89.The COEX shopping center in Seoul is the largest in the capital and the largest underground shopping center in the entire Asian continent and possibly in the world. 90.The tallest building in South Korea is the Lotte World Tower, which is 555 meters high and is the sixth tallest in the world. 91.In 2008, Yi So-yeon was the first Korean and one of the first Asian women to go into space, participating in the Soyuz TMA-12 spaceflight. 92. South Korea has the fastest internet connection speed and the best 4G availability in the world. 93.Incheon International Airport, which serves the city of Seoul, has been named the best in the world for 12 consecutive years in the Airport Service Quality Awards. 94.The busiest flight path on Earth is in South Korea. It's the 280-mile jump from Seoul to Jeju. More than 26 million passengers use the Jeju airport every year. 95.In Seoul they are building the first invisible building in the world. It is the Tower Infinity or Ecoprism Tower, near the Incheon airport. It is expected to open in 2024 and the illusion of invisibility will be achieved with a high-tech LED facade system. 96.In South Korea you can escape from daily stress by sending yourself to prison. Simply book at the Prison Inside hotel, there you will be locked up, sleeping on the floor, albeit with heating, tea and meals. 97.A very old Korean superstition considers it bad luck to write or sign the name of a living person in red ink . This means that the person is dead or will die soon. 98.In South Korea there are so-called jimjillbans, similar to spa centers, but there is a difference, you will have to remove modesty, since you must be completely naked. Of course, the sections for men and women are separated. 99.The moon bear, which was abundant in South Korea, does not exist in the wild today. It is raised on farms for its bile, which is in demand in traditional medicine. Animal rights advocates have demanded that those farms be closed to prevent animal suffering. 100. South Korea has more than 4,000 islands, you would need more than 10 years to visit them if you went to one a day. We have already reached the end! What other curiosities do you know about this incredible country? Leave them in the comments, and if you liked the video, give it a like, it will encourage me to make other videos like this one. I wish you a happy day, see you soon.