- Hey guys, and welcome back. You loved my video on how to make the perfect soft-boiled so I thought it only made with today's video on how to Now, here's the funny thing and I find that most people when they're out at restaurants, but they rarely make them at home. And if you ask why I think most would say that it's hard to get that in the poached egg, without getting lots of crazy white wispies all over the place. Well, for the last several weeks, which you might have seen I have tried every single egg From adding salt to the to adding vinegar or not adding vinegar to swirling a vortex pattern in the pot, to using a fine mesh sieve to get rid of some of that loose egg white, to using brand-new fresh and even changing the from a very deep pot of And needless to say I a few things in this process, so in today's video I'm all of the tips in what works the best for the perfect poached When it comes to the depth of water I'd recommend a pot with at least three to four inches of water. If you use a shallow saute you'll end up with a flatter poached egg, that may have more of a fried egg shape. So, heat the pot of water on While we're waiting for our water to boil we'll get our eggs ready. Now the number one most important factor when it comes to a perfectly poached egg is having the freshest eggs possible. And ideally that means just that morning. Fresh eggs are gonna have tighter whites, and keep more of that spherical shape that we're going for. Eggs that have been sitting in your fridge for a week are gonna have more of and that's what causes all But as I know running to the market before breakfast may not here's what you can do to And you should do this no Just crack your eggs give it a little swirl, and remove that liquidy egg white. And as you can see on this egg which I just purchased this morning, there's a lot less of than in the previous example. Once all of the very loose egg transfer your egg to a as this will make it much easier to pour the egg into our pot of water. And repeat this process for as many eggs as you plan to cook. (upbeat music) Now, just like we do when we're making soft and hard-boiled eggs, if you plan to make these poached eggs for meal prep or ahead of time, get an ice water bath ready as this will stop the Alright at this point our so now reduce the heat to low. You just want some slight but no bubbles breaking the surface. Many people say to add salt to but I found that this actually and splayed the egg white all out, then the reason this happens is because salt changes So definitely, don't add salt to the water but just so you can see what here's an attempted and you can see that it doesn't When it comes to vinegar, it's true that vinegar and keep the egg white all together. Now I was against this method at first, as I didn't want my eggs but if you use one to two tablespoons you definitely can't taste it at all. And for the type of vinegar you can use white vinegar, or any type of lighter colored vinegar. So let's get to poaching some eggs. Add a tablespoon of vinegar and create a vortex. And yes the vortex definitely works, and I recommend it if you're So once you've got a nice fast vortex drop your egg right into the middle, and look at that lovely poached egg shape. (upbeat music) Set your timer for three minutes for a firm white and liquid yolk, if you'd like your yolk a bit firmer just add another 30 seconds, use a slotted spoon to remove You can also give your egg a gentle tap to see how cook through it is and place it back in the water if you'd like it a little bit firmer. If it's to your liking, just dab the poached egg on a paper towel to remove any excess If you're making these for meal prep or to make an advance for a crowd, add the poached egg to your ice water bath which will ensure the and I'll show you in a second how you'll warm it back up later. Now, if you'd like to make without the vortex method, The shape may be a little flatter, but it's really not a big deal. So gently pour each of And on this last egg you can see that there was a little more liquidy white but that the main egg You can also use a spoon to move the water and help create a rounder And when three minutes is up again use a slotted spoon (upbeat music) If you have any leftover you can use kitchen and this is actually what for that perfect poached egg shape. They'll actually trim it into shape. Now, I think that's a little silly and I'm all for a more like this one. All right you've now got so let me show you one of breakfast recipes. Just add a little olive oil to a pan along with two cloves of minced garlic, then squeeze a lemon into the pan and add the zest of the lemon as well. Add a bunch of asparagus to move them around and saute for about three to five but still hold their shape. Add the asparagus to a plate and top them with a slice of prosciutto. Now, at this point we don't to our breakfast, so to just add some boiling water then place the poached for about 20 to 30 seconds or until it's warmed through. Remove it from the hot water and now it's ready to be Add a little salt and shave on some fresh authentic All right, let's cut into this poached egg and see how we did. Yep I'd say that's pretty darn perfect. I hope you guys enjoyed and if you did, hit that thumbs up and while you're at it hit so you don't miss next week's video, and I am now gonna finish (upbeat music)