Today we have a special story for you. Something that's been in the It's a really great story, so If you're a person that enjoys closed captioning button on the bottom Please make sure to like more projects just like this. Enjoy! The sound of chatter and activity another beside an external viewport Jack: "Isn't it beautiful?" Debs: "What? You mean the planet?" Jack: "No- the fleet." Debs: "Eh, what about it?" Jack: "Just look at them, thousands, across millions of kilometers. An entire night sky in itself. And we're a part of it- a part battle, of this final war." Jack looks out at the scene of the fleet the bar window, a wide scattering of overwhelmed by the passing of a wave There is a distinct clinking of the mumbles of other conversations. Debs: "Ehhhhh, I still don't see it. From this far away you can hardly It's just another pinprick Besides, I doubt this is the final one." Jack: "It is! I swear! I heard it from one of the higher-ups. This is it--the last of the Everyone knows we've had them on now, and this is finally the end! After this, no more war, ever again. The Empire will be just that, No need for war if there's Debs: "I don't know, for one, how do we I mean, we've still only Mostly because they owned that half to bother charting the rest. Who knows how many other And come on, I know you're a bit even you know how history goes? There might not be another for awhile, get the idea in their head that for some stupid ideal or other- and bunch of other people, and then what? A rebellion- that's what. Civil war, if you could even Jack: "Thank you, Debbie Downer. I may be an idealist but it beats being Come on, this is an Debs takes a moment and a long Jack's words to sink in. The ice tinks as she Debs: "Celebration? Jack, this is cruel. It's one planet. They don't even have a fleet anymore, It's been nothing but We haven't seen a new ship 22 years, Jack, zero. Nothing. This isn't even a war at this Jack: "That's how war is. This isn't primitive dark the entire history on record. You know as well as I do horrors they've committed. They're monsters, Debs, Debs: "Sure, and how Even if we do need to make left, did we need to be so... overdramatic? Do we really need every single last This is enough firepower to level an Heck, with no fleet to oppose us, strike and let it end with that. No need to even approach them their impending doom." Jack: "Gods, you have This is the end. Of the war. Not just any war. THE war, the biggest war Can you imagine how awful it would books was 'and then we nuked them'? Horrible. Even I know that this needs What would be the point of... of it all if we just let it, It's a sign of a new age! A new era of peace and prosperity, Debs: "Do you see that?" Jack: "See what? The bright future that's Debs: "Shut up, Jack, no. THAT. Look." A brief pause as Jack turns to look out There's a crash as two men who were everyone else in the entire shipboard appearing and incredibly bright point Jack: "I don't, woah, wait. What the hell? Is that one of ours? The shield is-" Debs: "Massive. I've never seen a shield that it's so far away and How big is that thing? Did High Command seriously right as the war is about to-" She is interrupted by alarm sirens- on and everyone starts to only bar to get to their stations. AI Intercom: "Red. Alert. Red. Alert. Enemy Warship Detected. Battlestations. Red. Alert." Jack: "Apostles above, It's... it's firing. I've never seen anything like it. What is that, some kind of laser? I thought lasers were invisible Several individuals who haven't run and one woman screams in terror. Debs: "Apostles.. It just... it just cut one of The core detonated instantly, look at the nuclear plume. Oh gods, that beam is JACK GET-" An explosion sounds but is of space consumes the scene. Several moments of dead silence follow. More alarm sirens, and the shouts confirmations, requesting help Engineer 1: "GET AHOLD OF Engineer 2: "I KNOW! I KNOW!" An explosion rocks them Engineer 1: "Shit! We're hit! How are the shield fluxes?" Engineer 2: "Barely holding on, We're lucky that it didn't hit It's all I can do to keep the Apostles above what is even hitting us? I thought they didn't have a fleet!" Engineer 1: "I don't Just keep the shields online, we're Intercom: "Engineering bay, We need thrusters NOW!" Engineer 1: "Negative, Bridge! We lost the entire aft section- It's all we can do to keep the air inside the ship long enough it past the physical bulkheads.' Intercom: "No, Engineering Bay. We need that power now. Give up the sections that are exposed. Close whatever bulk doors we have. We need all the power we have on Every last drop you can squeeze Engineer 2: "Dear gods above... but, that's so many-" Engineer 1: "Shut it. We have our orders. You have the shield fluxes, do it." Engineer 2: "Closing bulkheads... apostles forgive me..." The sound of rushing air briefly immediately silenced screams of Engineer 2 mutters Engineer 1: "Pull This is life or death. I have no clue what's going on out as vulnerable as command believed. FOCUS. You heard the captain, we need Engineer 2: "Y-y-you're right. You're right. Sorry. Maximizing forward shields. Oh gods please let it be enough..." The sound of creaking, twisting ship, and the Engineers are Engineer 1: "Gods above! What was that? We may be half as massive is still an Empire Cruiser! It weighs thousands of tons, no kinetic punch to rock us that hard. Are the shields..?" Engineer 2: "Yes, holding, barely. But another hit like No clue if we'll survive I can't believe it, it's like Did a smaller ship Engineer 1: "I don't know. That first strike sliced off computer's internals are scrambled It's a good thing this ship is control over the fusion core. Something like this would have Engineer 2: "Dear Engineer 1: "Yeah, we might be one fleet even capable of fighting back, And we're already de-legged and shields, practically de-fanged." Engineer 2: "We need to-" Engineer 1: "Yeah, I'm about to. Bridge, this is Engineering. The ship is also suffering some it's paralyzed most of our analog stuff is still working. However, I doubt the same is true We might be the only Bridge: "Understood, Engineering. Change of plans, doesn't matter if the one after gets us anyway. Shift all power to the laser we're not doing it quietly." Engineer 2: "Understood, Chief. Redirecting power to the laser banks." A buzzing hum fills the ship as the and fire a continuous, invisible beam The scene shifts to the Bridge of just gave the order to fire- the protocol requires a certain audio the Captain can always shout above Captain Dan: "Pilot Ruth, do we still Pilot Ruth: "Aye, Captain. But without much power, they Captain Dan: "That's still should work at this distance. Push everything you've got to Can't do laterals since we're we'll just end up spinning." "Fire Control, status report?" FCO Yarnit: "Report, no damage sir. Their shield ate the entire Banks overheated from the before we can fire again." Captain: "Damn it all. I was hoping to at Engineering! Shift all power back to shields. Attention, all hands. Abandon ship. It's been an honor." Engineer 1: "Roger, Captain. Same." Security Chief Sasha: "Captain you're not taking a pod." Captain Dan: "There's only so many our hangars were in the Aft section. Besides, someone has to hit once the pods start launching. Now go. Comms, before you leave your station, Anything at all?" Comms Officer Frederick: "No, Captain. Still static. Whatever they did, it Hurried, shuffling footsteps to make their way to the pods. The ship's alarm is still blaring. The Captain speaks his thoughts confusion and amazement. Captain: "How did it come to this? How did they get something like that? Is it even their ship? Just look at it. I've never seen lasers like that. Never seen lasers. What is that weapon even doing that And the speed of it... that's faster than light- What in More than one, too. An entire array of them, several even. Cleaving through the It's a wonder that the viewscreen light of the fusion plumes. And their shield, it's so bright even even firing with their shields up?" Intercom: "Bridge, this is Drop the shields." Captain: "Loud and clear. Dropping." A low hum manifests then vanishes as the He walks over to a synthesizer which alcohol- clinking ice included. He quickly gulps down the entire shot as the escape pods launch en masse. "Gods help us all." He chokes on a second shot, shocked by something he's seen. "No. That's the Gloriana. Why would they warp in the Do... do they not know what's happening? There's no way they'll survive-" He pauses as he notices one of the beams "Shit. Time's up. I can only hope most He takes one last swig before The scene shifts to the loud and hectic before it warps into the battlefield. General Strong: "All hands, attention, An unknown enemy vessel has of the Empire's full might. Somehow, it is not already dead. We've lost contact with the main have picked up the gravitational They're in the thick of it and In just a few moments we're going to and re-establish command so that we I'm sure everyone was looking but it seems our enemy wasn't. To stations!" A dull hum steadily becomes louder as and it re-manifests in reality. An AI voice counts down AI Intercom: "Actualization 9. 8. 7. 6. 5. 4. 3. 2. 1. Actualizing." The entire ship creeks and there is mass of the Gloriana actualizes. The bridge gasps, and some men swear, as a vessel several times larger than them. Commander Todd: "Apostles. Look at it. Where did it even come from? How could they have-" General Strong: "Can it, Commander! All hands! Battle stations immediately Launch all squadrons, full I want every single damn tube Overcharge every laser bank and pre-fire 1 salvo then let our ships through. Data Officer Jones, lock down incoming the fleet's comms is going to come Commander Todd, I want you to work on channels on personal communicators, connected to the primary computer. Orders are simple. Fight. This one's for all the marbles. Coordinate salvos if The Bridge comes alive with chatter and The sounds of anti-capital torpedoes, laser banks echo throughout the hull. "Everyone else, huddle on the war table. We need to assess the battlefield." The hologram audibly flickers, carnage to the shock of the war room. Commander Yuu: "Dear gods above. It's carnage. Half the fleet? It's been barely fifteen minutes. How can one vessel do this much damage?" Commander Rick: "Did you see It's the size of a bloody moon. Firing visible lasers. Visible. Lasers. Faster than light ones, too, apparently. Look at them. Why haven't they turned them to us yet?" General Strong: "Simple. We're too close. Gloriana has no less If they detonate us they'll I was intending to be several kilometers Didn't expect the thing to Analysis, people. What are we dealing with? Rick, you're a weapons Commander Rick: "I I've never seen green Just normal weapons like Whatever they're firing is beyond Without access to advanced scientific Commander Roderick: "General, if I may. If they cannot fire on us, that means We should instruct whatever remains of themselves into Gloriana's shadow." General Strong: "Great That way our entire fleet Look, they took out the carriers first. That's not even supposed to be possible The only ships left are all direct-fire Commander Yuu: "Commander, none from the staging formation. None of them are even firing right now. Except for only a handful See, that one's EVA thrusters it was cut clean in half. How it is even operable at all Data Officer Jones: "General! I've finished locking down our Just barely moments after you pulse shocked the entire system. If any of our receivers had been Everything else is EM One of the rear sections didn't lock off before whatever hit their system It's a virus, commander. Some kind of electronic attack. Given the speed at which it crippled designed to counter our systems. But I have no idea how they managed enough to destroy electronics..." General Strong: "Good Todd! How's our backup comms?" Commander Todd: "Working, sir. It seems that whatever pulse Jones personal devices inside the ships. We're free to transmit and receive, General Strong: "Good enough. Distribute the orders, and tell close enough it won't target them wreckage and the fusion plume." Commander Roderick: "General, if the all it will take to destroy us all Some of those bombardment vessels chain reaction by themselves." General Strong: "I Todd, instruct the larger vessels to get Bridge! Once the larger vessels are behind us, Give the larger ships cover as they make We'll give them shade from the laser so If we're lucky, the enemy will opening trying to protect the world." Commander Roderick: "But won't they end General Strong: "Can it, Roderick. Besides, they aren't going They're bombardment cruisers- the hit us regardless at this range." Commander Todd: "General! The surviving fleet reports that they're a handful of older generation ships General Strong: "Get every single on the same command structure. We have some of the best minds in want them cracking this virus now." Commander Todd: "Understood, General! TFV Yur, you're the new Data Chief, TFV Rurt and Jockol are..." General Strong: "Fighter Bay, report. How are the squadrons doing?" Flight Master: "Bad, sir. The enemy has deployed a strange Fighters and bombers It's not visible on sensors, reporting a 'gray cloud' Commander Rick: "Maybe Maybe it's their last-ditch effort. If that's the case, it has a weakness. Some exposed sections somewhere. They could be using their the sensors, my best guess? The back. General, we should command the Fighters General Strong: "I agree. Flight Master, order all squadrons vessel, break through those shields, The scene shifts to the cockpit pilots, just as the Flight Master Flight Master: "All squadrons, Command believes it may have Wing Captain: "Great. Just fucking wonderful. Red 2, Red 3, flank me. We need to get in tight. Pre-fire all weapons, anything Red 2: "Roger, Wing Captain. I'm on your- AH-" Her feed is cut as a cloud of Red 3: "Apostles, Captain We have to fall back!" Wing Captain: "No can do, Red 3. We won't make it back, either. I saw what those things did to They're prioritizing retreating ships. They're trying to pen us in. The only way through is through. We need to get in under those shields. Activate the phase Red 3: "Roger, Wing Captain." Buzzing and whooshes sound in fires his lasers and PD missiles "Wing Captain, look! An exposed section, Command was I'm going in for a Wing Captain: "Red 3, Negative! Negative! Abort! You have clouds on your six, FUCK. NO! Dammit, Red 3, you reckless bastard. Shit, they're coming for me. Eat this, assholes! GAAHHHH!" The scene shifts to the cockpit of silent except for his heavy breathing. I'm through. They missed me. But that other fighter wing... Thank you. I'm alive thanks to you. Everyone else is gone. Those... those damn clouds- I see the opening but it it, too many clouds nearby. I can't get in. Wait, they're moving. All of them are- oh gods, no. Please gods no. They're going for the Gloriana. It got in too close, Oh no, the ships behind it. It's trying to give them those green deathrays are. Nononono, I have to report this." Static is all that answers him. Pilot: "Damnit! The shield is too thick, I can't get to them! No! I can't fly out from behind the thruster either or they'll spot me. I'm trapped. Forced to watch as- oh, oh gods. The clouds are eating it alive. Just... melting the Gloriana away. Are.. are those people? Apostles, the mist it's..." He removes his breathing mask and vomits loses his lunch from too hard a turn. "Have to move out of here wants to turn the thrusters on. The specters moved, if I'm going to No... no. It wouldn't accomplish anything. A single bomb on a single exposed a ship the size of a damned moon. I need to hide. Find some way out of here. I can't die like this. I can't. I can't..." He begins to sob. It fades into the background as the room, watching the news as a new war far as to make a show of it being the Complete with an orchestral fanfare. News Caster: "Breaking news! The final battle of the Just a few hours ago today, armada de-actualized in orbit They've taken the jump, and News vessels have joined them to a handful of light-minutes delay! We have Mary Sueme on the scene!" Mary Sueme: "Thank you, Tom. As you can see, the size of the complete Never before in our history has collected into a single formation. Only one vessel, the Command Carrier and just a handful of light minutes away. In fact, we can turn the cameras Oh! The Command Carrier She is joining the main fleet! The attack must be beginning! Let's zoom in on the action." Father of the family: I thought they said the Look at that thing, it's huge! And, oh gods, Honey. Honey, get the kids out of here." Mother: "But Harold, Harold: "NOW, CAROLINE!" Son: "Daddy? What's going on? What are those green line thingies?" Caroline: "It's nothing Celebratory light shows for the Not get to your room, children, Daughter: "Mom? School's been out for like, 2 weeks?" Caroline: "Just do as Take your brother and Son: "Mooom, I'm scaaarred." Caroline: "Shhh, sh Mommy's here. Nothing is going to hurt you. Just get to your room Derek: Sniffles "Okay..." Harold: "Dear gods... it's a massacre... What the hell is that thing? Why aren't they doing anything? They're just sitting there, letting Cutting the feed like that. If you're gonna show 'No surviving navy' my left Caroline: "Harold!" Harold: "What! They're in their rooms, And besides, you know I'm right. I told you there was no Space is way too big! You can't just up and declare that even control all their planets yet. Stupid propagandizing idiots. Now look at them, they got themselves So much for the 'last' war report." Caroline: "But, Harold, Even if it's a straggler ship, Harold: "Yeah, probably. But it sure did a lot of I saw something like a A dozen. Imagine what would happen if the It would've been another My grandfather lived through tell you it wasn't pretty. The stories he'd tell me Caroline: "Please, Harold. I don't think this is a good Let's just switch over to have a more up-to-date feed. One ship can't make that much of-" There's a flicker as the holovision feed speaking but with a far more Newscaster: "Hello, people I am Todd Ducker, and it is with children or those weak of heart turn A minute of silence. "Now. At exactly 21:24 today, the the homeworld of the Enemy, Loranis. According to publicly published fleet-making capabilities had been the final remnants of their fleet being However, it seems that the Federation species- who now speaks as the They have requested to share a Emperor Tarkasian has approved." A different fanfare plays, and a militaristic feel. Speaker: "Attention, Citizens I am Federation President Bonald General of the new Federation Armada. And I am Human. My people were primitive The Federation had been keeping interfered aside from a handful of When we developed spaceflight barely a the situation the Galaxy was in and of Harold: "What in the hells is this? A 'human' it said? It's disgusting! It has no scales! No secondary gills! What are those weird things Caroline: "I believe It's something that many Harold: "Well it's disgusting. I can't look at this, I'll be in Speaker: "We also learned committed by the Empire, on the In many cases, with public Look at this. Look at these worlds. Notice something? They're barren. All of them. Every single one was once a with unimaginable diversity Every single one was bombarded into by Empire fleets for no reason more Loranis was about to join them. And you were going to celebrate this. Celebrate the deaths of countless screams like a fanfare for your They lost their navy. They had nothing left to resist. You could have simply forced them holdings more or less peacefully. But no, you held your big all your might at a helpless, Harold shouts from the kitchen. Harold: "Hah! Propagandizing bastard! The Loranis are scum, for each atrocity It's only fair! Huh, that's weird. Why is it dark all of a sudden?" Speaker: "So, in respect for your just to prove a point already proven. I bid you farewell, Let this be the first, and Ever." Caroline: "Uh, Honey? What is he talking about? What is going on?" Derek comes crying down the stairs. Derek: "Mommy! Mommy! The sun is gone! The sun disappeared! We're all going to Susie: "Mom, calm Derek down. I can't Harold: "Apostles, Caroline! Kids! Get into the living room, now!" Susie:"Ugh, do I have to?" A deep hum gets louder Drowning out Derek's crying as the Caroline: "YES, DEAR! NOW! PLEASE! Hush, now, Derek, it's It'll all be fine. We'll be just fine. Come here, that's right, let Mommy Then silence washes The sounds of pencils etching into notebooks as the Lecturer: "-and then we nuked them." Student: "Seriously? That's it? That's lame."