Xiaoyu is already mine. We have privately reiterated And the agreement When I come back from South Asia, I will go to Chongqing I became a relative But Dad You still have time We still have time enough You stay at home for me. Otherwise I won't let you off easily. I have listened to you since I was a child. I never asked you I'm begging you to help us now. OK Xiaoyu and I can't be separated I beg you Xiaoyu already has my child. None of your business Xiaoyu and I are truly in love I won't be separated from her. These shameful men and women I will complete you Come on Trapped Golden Dragon Slow down master It is not necessary This bastard dragon can give birth to a son She is not my son. Not my biological son. She is a bastard She is a bastard Who will plead for her again? I'll beat her to death right here. Gold beads If it's hard for my son I died in front of her. old go to hell Let's all die master These twenty years You have never been born I have endured for so many years master go to hell You left Your flesh and blood I don't have a choice I have always treated Jinzhulong as my own flesh and blood. Send her a letter abroad Isn't it to pass on this family business to her? you Have you ever thought about me Over the past twenty years Am I feeling well? You are not here Those things in the past you Stop calling here. In fact, some things I don't know if it's my wife's fault. mother I don't want I can't give you the last ride. I know I'm giving you oral sex here. Kill me peacefully We put the master mother Your appearance If you're a sinner Not only did you hurt your father It also caused my wife to lose her soul. Don't blame me for being hateful. If I don't leave today Your father is afraid that his career will not survive Mom will accompany you mother Master Don't do this. You mustn't do this anymore Master This side has changed I'm going to Nanyang for business this time Just wait for me to come back When I come back I'll talk to my parents about our marriage. Later Where am I going? Where are you going? We will never separate Okay? fine Maybe I ate something bad these two days. Are you really okay? It's really okay Don't worry about me. Come Let me help you clean up. Just clean it up later. You promised me You must take good care of Seeing a different bride Angry Do not be angry It's just angry words do not be angry Also day and night long meat Falling Where is Boss Chen? Came here several times They're asking us to pay. I talked to people in a good way Promise you Give us a few more days. What's the grace period? No need anymore If they want money, let them come. tell them The Time Hall will no longer be open from now on. this Collect the money you should collect The harvest of the harvest The things in Shijitang are free of charge Take it at will Don't take Don't take it for nothing Please stop drinking master You drank a lot. master Please stop drinking master You go Come what are you doing go out What to do Stinky old man I think it's you. We are here to collect the house. Pack up your things quickly Get out of here with me Nonsense, what about taking over the house? Go! Go! Go Go Go Go Your master has already sold this house. master What is going on? I sold the house. You let them collect it. master This house is a hostel. You can't sell the house. You are right That makes a lot of sense. I don't dare to sell my house. The Li family has a prodigal son. oops It hasn't changed in more than 20 years. master Who let you in here? boss Get this bastard out of the house. You are the one who left this house. yes it's me it's me Gao Jiang I bought it from the 30 Silver Bank From today Old House Timekeeping Hall irrational Where is the rational heart Reasonableness You've always been behind this. I wish I had known this day would come I'll break your other leg too. I want you to lie on the ground. You to the basket You are the one who exposes this loser again. it's me it's me I told you eight years ago You broke my leg. I'll settle with you sooner or later Hong Zhuzhi yes Walk Walk What are you doing? This moving thing You can't move like this. boss Walk Don't talk nonsense with these beasts. Eat dust and be fooled Walk Wu Zhai Enqing Four horse belts were broken Ate three There are two more teams on the bill take it They have more than ten dollars. You give this little money That's too much. It doesn't matter if people take money What trouble have you caused? As soon as you leave Marry into our Li family Good, I like him How can a daddy fight with his son? It's not your fault. It's my fault It is not my fault I didn't save the Li family's Suye The Lee Family Mansion It's Dad Dad is not good It's all in my hands. Ouch, this one That's our Li family. Treat people well Xi treats people with his life to protect them. I'll die I don't have the face to see the Li family's great ancestor Grandpa Please stop talking. rest for a bit Stop talking You care Do care Everything will be fine, sir. Why do you hate your father? I care if you have anything to say No You lied to me Heartbroken Revenge revenge revenge father Wake up, Dad. father Wake up, Dad. Be careful, old man. The yard is dead. Do you have firewood? What story could there be? It's Li Daolan, the boss of Jishitang This firewood It turned out to be his You said two wives died overnight Too big to count The little one followed. real or fake Of course it's true. From then on, the Li family continued to grow in value. Say it This business is not tiring. People have died you say How can this not be called a haunted house? That Then Mr. Cui is going to move here? Isn't that hiring your own accountant? yes Hello You two, work hard. When will we meet? The matter of the master and the lady Can you manage it? He went up Yes Yes Yes Xiao Cui Why are you so careless? Mrs sorry My hand slipped and I couldn't hold it. I I read it and it's just a vase Don't be nervous master A vase is nothing But since we started moving I've changed a lot of things. This morning Even the wheels of the carriage used to transport things are broken. This up and down Like being hit by blood master you say The House Is there anything wrong? oops A nice house Don't be superstitious. Woman's Home Don't think too much But But many people say The Feng Shui of this house is OK No matter what You are also calling someone's wife How can I say the same thing as those ignorant people? Our Cui Family Do the right thing I haven't done anything wrong. What's so scary? I'm worried too. Take a look So many things happened in a row It never stopped. Can I not be anxious? Mr. and Mrs. The old man and his wife of the broken family There is also a young man coming to the wedding oops Why are you here so early? oops Broken Master Mrs. Broken Everyone, please come and do business. Broken Master Broken Family Please take a seat Please take a seat Please take a seat Thanks aunt aunt Sit, sit, sit Mrs. Cui Mr. Cui Today Look at this I didn't bring any gifts. Just some typical tea leaves or something. Call it Chengqing Family immediately Why are you still so polite? Why Mr. Cui Although our two families will soon become the Qing family But one handful at a time Etiquette Nothing less Aunt Sun Is Zisu not at home? How come you haven't come out for so long? Zisu might be packing things in the house. We just moved here today. There's a mess everywhere This child I just came here to find a wife What's the hurry? Marry into your family It is our son Su's blessing. Cut off the wife Later We need more people to discipline our son Su Mrs. Cui Please don't say that. We are home It is indeed a wealthy family. But what about your Cui family? It's also a family of origin. Our two families are getting married. This is called a match made in heaven Yes, yes. To marry someone like Zi Su Straight talk about the management of the group return show That's my blessing too. This kid is ignorant. Adults talking How can you be so close? Uncle Duan Aunt Duan Please have tea Zixuan How can I stop you from drinking tea? Aunt Duan This is the tea I made myself. You like green tea, don't you? This cup This is the Longjing before the rain this year. I prepared it specially for you. Zixuan You are so likable. Not only is she beautiful Also knows how to lead I'm talking to Mrs. Cui. Why don't we go to the family? Let Zixuan also marry into my family Aunt Duan Don't tease me. I don't want to get home like this. I want to stay at home with my parents Take good care of the two elders My parents have to decide for me when I get married. This is the enclosure of this house. And what I told you last time The loan business of the bank I wrote a promissory note Aunt Cui These two families will soon become the Qing family Why are you still walking? Don't you just want to mass produce Zhongcheng medicine? How much to borrow You directly say What IOU? Surrounding money or something What are you doing for him? Hear the soldiers and know the future Let's get this one thing to one thing Even brothers have a reputation for settling scores. look I marry my daughter Your Duan family has also offered a betrothal gift. Moreover, this house Or Mr. Duan sold it to us at a low price The story of the medicine shop It has nothing to do with these. How many installments does the interest on this bank have? How much per issue do not worry I won't lose a penny. Borrow Master do not worry Where is this money? I'll give it to Shopkeeper Li to deliver tomorrow morning. This is a procedure. I'll leave it to Shopkeeper Cui. good Wen Bingge Didn't you say you wanted to see what Tang Hua looks like? I just found a few in my backyard. Do you want me to take you there? real Very good father You I'll go to the back to see Tanghua go Go We are subject to our Come Try this fish cocoon tea Zixuan Where is Tanghua? I haven't seen any OK OK I won't touch you. Don't keep looking. You are right here Wait for the Tanghua you love first I'll hand it over right now. sister Zixuan I heard Xiao Cui say The price cut is coming right Are in a hurry Looking for Tang flowers everywhere Tanghua what does it mean I said I have brought my future brother-in-law here. In the empty garden You go You can see your sweetheart soy Mujer Even my sister dares to live here Today is not New Year He must be looking for someone urgently. Zixuan Why don't you go and have a look? elder sister You said I was teasing you He clearly said that you bullied me It's okay if I bully you He doesn't care about the bird head. sister Then I won't talk to you. Go meet your fiance now. You are the wife of the master who cuts the price not to mention Haven't you already been recognized by me? If you say it again, I'll leave. They just arrived He left before saying a word. You really are willing to do that. You keep saying some weird things. If someone else saw Do I still want to be a human being? What are you afraid of when I'm here? Who dares to bully you? You have to get past me first. Who let you Zisu It's me, Duan Wenbin's wife. She is the woman I love most in my life. OK OK I won't say anything anymore, that's it. But Zisu What I just said But these are all my true words Know it Master Duan There is ample time These are your true words Let's talk about it later. correct Almost forgot For you What a beautiful mirror This is my trustee Brought back from Southeast Asia There is only one unique Just right for the eldest daughter of the Cui family You can speak Zi Su Then I'll give you a gift. Shouldn't we also ask where the business is going? So what should I give you? Okay, Wenbin. Been out for so long. Your parents will be unhappy. Your future parents-in-law are waiting to meet you. Then I'll go change my clothes first Come right over Want me to go? What clothes to change Master Duan I want to meet my future parents-in-law No, it's not pretty. How can I be worthy of my husband? I'll be there soon I passed by the market today I bought it when I saw it. Didn't you say a few days ago Don't you have anything sincere? Do you think this is okay? Yes, I have Stop buying me these odds and ends. As long as you like it Like is like But you also need our money. You are not later Why is it You left me too Or something else I can't leave you alone Staying here alone Take you away from this place Take you to a place where no one is Where we can be found There won't be anyone there. Are these two actions similar? actually this I made it according to my own image. this I wanted to mold it to look like you. I just want after When I can't be with you Let him accompany you What about you, the smaller one? after When I was looking for you Take him out and have a look. What is a smaller size or a larger size? You remember I won't leave you I will always be by your side No one will be alone I will always be by your side No one will be alone I will always be by your side No one will be alone continue Xiao Cui Come come come Xiao Cui Miss Miss Miss I didn't get my stuff back. I won't hurt you As long as you don't call Open the door Miss, open the door. Don't call me What? What's up, Xiaocui? Open I heard something breaking inside. I won't open it if you call me Miss Zi Su It's me, Wenbin Don't shout Zi Su Wenbin, be careful. Miss, open it. Open the door Are you OK Open the door