It's the world's biggest luxury company, with some of the industry's Dior, Louis Vuitton, Moet, Bulgari, Loewe, Tiffany, It's definitely the Absolutely the leader of Fashion, luxury hotels, media Led by one of the world's richest people. LVMH touched the $500 billion mark, making it the first European So how did a young lead him to founding Europe's and which of his five The story of LVMH is it's the story of this company, Bernard Arnault. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton has soared to become one of world's most valuable publicly dwarfing its rivals Hermes as well Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent The man behind this staggering He gained the moniker thanks to his high stakes take no prisoners approach that helped him win control of more than 70 brands. But beneath the tough Bernard Arnault set out to that would maintain many The idea seemed foolish to How could one company And where would he find them all? The first stepping stone of his business Christian Dior was a that was part of a textile company Bernard Arnault knew that to become a brand that was If you look at all the luxury groups and specifically LVMH, there are ways of strategically transforming in the industry and for LVMH, it was always about M&amp;A sometimes aggressive M&amp;A. There has been a huge The idea being to build a But the biggest and boldest of LVMH's Tiffany's in November 2019. At almost $16 billion it remains the luxury industry's biggest takeover. But it wasn't without LVMH has said here and there that they were not particularly interested in that asset. So clearly this came out as a surprise. So in 2020 Covid hits, are buying fewer luxury goods, they cannot go to the stores, they are stuck at home. At some point that there was a lot of tense and protracted negotiations. They threatened to go to court and in the end, they settled. When it completed in 2021, what we ended up with was a $16 billion deal something which was four times outside of LVMH. But if we think about where For LVMH, with Tiffany it really opened up the Asian market LVMH's business strategy, together and Asia's fast accumulation of wealth provided the prime conditions for the company's rapid What has happened in China in the last 20 or 30 years is you've had this increasingly large, wealthy, middle or upper class who have been engaged That's been good for luxury goods. What's so strong about LVMH is that because they have so many better leases with landlords And they not only own but they also own distributors and that's very important because Sephora will not be slashing prices on Dior products because that Desirability is something that He's got to strike the right balance without cheapening their In the last ten years, LVMH shares hit an annual growth rate of about 20%. But the uninhibited spending on luxury goods stands in stark contrast making an escalating class and propelling an In April 2023, French protesters stormed LVMH's Paris headquarters when President Macron tried to That very same day, shares for the Luxury today is recreating, in a sense, the idea of elites, the idea of masses, the idea of a lifestyle that Headwinds from a global economic This sector was priced for perfection. Just one little cloud in the sky, just one shadow on the board Obviously, the consumer is key and the consumer is sort of Potentially trading LVMH, it makes some sense because there is a reopening consumer driven trade, although that's already fizzling, it would seem. LVMH is particularly exposed to political with 37% of its revenue in In May, billions were wiped out pointed to a fading recovery in China, largely credited for The Chinese economy, the You don't have any concerns about China's slowdown There were always and finally, our activities are So I am optimistic. For all his optimism, one Who will lead LVMH now in his seventies, retires? In this real life 'Succession' scenario, which of his five children as they all assume bigger roles in LVMH. Here's who's who in the Arnault clan. There's the eldest, Delphine. She's the head of LVMH's second His second, Antoine, the most among the siblings, oversees From his second marriage, Bernard Arnault had three more children. Alexandre is the head of products Frederic heads the watch and the youngest, Jean, is in charge of developing Louis Vuitton's watch catalog. One of the interesting things is that they make a point of at the LVMH headquarters here in Paris, where they have lunches and they discuss everything from It's a nice relationship, and working with your family is very pleasant. Now being the son in a is a great responsibility. Even with this children it doesn't look like Arnault In 2022, LVMH shareholders voted i.e. of Bernard Arnault, from 75 to 80. I feel that that's already I think that the market overall Versus some of the peers, LVMH is very well placed for succession. Arnault, via his holding company Agache, owns 48% of LVMH's share capital but has almost 64% of the voting rights. The ownership structure was tweaked in 2022 to ensure the Arnault family retains its control over the luxury goods conglomerate for the long term. What I think is really important today set up, trained to the business they stick together against the enemy. anyone who's not part of the family in the company. The idea is to have a family community that is going to stick together