Translator: Cihan Ekmekci We see it everyday, in the news, the battles that are being waged On YouTube and Facebook, to give us a front row seat But what the cameras don't capture is that there is another war, a digital cyber world, where the battles are not being fought but with bits and bytes. My name is not Doug Shmidt. (Laughter) But it could be if I wanted it to. (Laughter) My real name is Eric Winsborrow. And for past two decades in creating the next generation at companies such as Symantec and MacAfee. I currently run a cybersecurity company made up of PhDs from MIT who are tasked by the US government to create the next generation Our customers include and the Department of Homeland Security. If there's one thing What's going on today in cyber espionage and we may never even realize it. If you think about it, a lot of technologies have been coming from into next generation defense technologies. Last generation, the Cold War satellite communications It has so permeated our everyday lives it has gotten to the point where we can't imagine to be able to see halfway or just navigate around the block. So if yesterday's has such a profound impact on us today, then what's today's I'm going to show you with technology that's actually There are cyber battles and we don't even realize it. It's gotten to the point of a confluence, a merging between men and machine where we can never tell them apart. This is the age of a cyber spy. Now, when we think of spies, we might share Hollywood's image who sneaks into some somewhere halfway around the world Sometimes Hollywood goes a bit too far. In this case, however, You see, governments today into such a secret location. He'd never get in. Today's spies are cyber spies. You see, it used to be that Today, James Bond is technology. I want to walk you But before I can take you there, to where the first virus actually started, and the beginning The first virus was actually written into a floppy disc video game Yes, ironically, the world's (Laughter) My! Have the world has changed! (Laughter) And we call these types because you literally had This is the first level of convergence where man is completely joined only by a pair of red sneakers. If James Bond wanted to insert a virus he'd have to sneak it in (Laughter) I love you. Well, not you - we've only just met - Melissa is not my wife. (Laughter) You see, around the year 2000 or Y2K, the Melissa virus, named after the virus writer's Audience: Miami. was the world's first email-borne virus. It was inserted into an email attachment &quot;I love you.'' Once the attachment was opened, and within three months, inadvertently becoming But this also marks the second leg because this is now the first time where man is leveraging This would be the time But then, in the September And I'm not talking about 9/11. I'm talking about one week later, This was the introduction of Code Red. Code Red wasn't an e-mail virus; It was all of the above. It was the world's first and it went around the world By September 21, it'd infected Governments took notice, because they realized and bring it up to a whole other level, to do the work its human spies could not. This enters the third phase, the phase where technology This is the beginning I'm going tell you a little bit I'm going to take you that happened just way off in the Middle East. You might already to sneak in to an underground to protect us from a nuclear threat. This is the Natanz nuclear and so is this, from space. The Allied nations were worried that this man, President Ahmadinejad, to create more nuclear fuel than he needed And they were right. He was also using those centrifuges They needed to destroy those centrifuges. But how were they going to do it? They couldn't send any they're in the middle of a desert. (Laughter) And they actually debated to drop bombs and blow the place apart. A little messy and not good PR. (Laughter) Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know. I know, I know. (Applause) You just wait. (Laughter) So, instead of dropping a bomb, Very clean. It was a - they called it What a great name I was here for the Olympics in Vancouver. It was clean. It was fun. It's a great name. If they wanted to stick and set fire to everything they would've called it (Laughter) (Applause) I was actually expecting But they had to get the agent in. And there are several ways they do it. I can't describe them all, but one that was at least so that's what we'll go with. And it's true. They did insert the agent and then they scattered Some workers did manage to pick them up I know, look - you know the story. Before you get too judgmental, what would you do (Laughter) Think about that the next time and some stranger from marketing hands you a USB and says, (Laughter) I don't know how many security trade shows Now, that is a different story. (Laughter) But the agents did get in. And they did what all good agents do: They started working their way walking the hallways so to speak, And its target was that Siemens box. That Siemens box was a controller And once they found it, they inserted that, forgive me, altered the programmable logical controller And then it phoned home in several ways. Phoned home and gave full command and control which, then of course, went to such a state of supersonic speed They destroyed the centrifuges without ever stepping The program was a smashing success. (Laughter) Ahmadinejad was beside himself. He was firing his best scientists One small problem, though: the Allied spent so much time they didn't think about And bits of the program it started searching its way First in Iran, then and all the way to the doorstep Now, before you get a little nervous, this spy knew it's programming; it was told to look of that controller in Natanz However, its cover had been blown. The security industry, chiefly And what was once a covert operation became known as the advanced In case you've ever heard of it. Now, there are battles like this and even in our backyards The Chinese are particularly good at this. That video you saw earlier, You don't see what else goes on. Last year, the Chinese successfully hacked through the HR department. And like Stuxnet, they weaved their way around They found the confidential What do these tokens do? They get you into networks. Like military contractors: Now, given Lockheed Martin you can imagine But they also focused on business. Operation Aurora, because it was famous for successfully But what people don't realize was about successfully targeting from Intel to Morgan Stanley. And here at home, companies The Chinese had CEO level access and documentation for nearly 10 years. And if you're involved for example, bidding in the oil sands, a little bit of a wake up call, you might want to look up something It brings whole new meaning Now, these researchers of Kaspersky also recently released a report that said that the number of network intrusions had skyrocketed from 220 million - to 1.3 billion. What is going on? What's the implications for all of us, Well, nationally, you can see It's not just about It's about the own After all, if you can take out what's to stop them And if you're going to attack a nation, you want to take out and the infrastructure, like banking. And while we're talking about in this current level of convergence, then who flies commercial Is it pilots or programs? If a decade ago, a number of operatives, could storm into what's to stop a program from invading an autopilot Just last week, Leon Panetta, The Secretary of Defence publicly went on record and said and I quote, ''Of a cyber Pearl Harbor with physical Now, what about us individually? There are a lot of hackers they know how reverse-engineer and use some of those techniques You might have heard, last year, over 100 million user accounts I see some nodding heads, is that those attacks actually happened Many different individual attacks, And as we get more and more dependant you know, I wonder what's next, Maybe creating killer cookie robots? (Laughter) The government always warned me but I just never knew. (Laughter) But a little bit more seriously, if we think about those or if we could spin them up and out what other devices are we reliant on under the assumption of perfectly secure If this scares you that our parents' generation that were being invented that they built bomb shelters And those very same technologies are changing our lives today in a way Now, also remember this: Those technologies I am talking about I promised you that I would take you with technologies So let me share that with you now. I'm going to take you a wormhole, by the way, You see, if you're going against technology that replaces people, then the next step of convergence is to create technology that in the digital world We're capable of creating that you cannot tell them apart. So when those attackers or to an HR department, instead of finding And they walk around just like Stuxnet was trying to do looking for systems to infect, but instead of finding These shadow systems that look checking their emails or spending (Laughter) Yeah, we know. (Laughter) But here's the thing, if one of those attack programs and asks us to open it, we gladly do. If they ask for confidential data, we happily hand it to them because these shadow networks I'm actually going to show you Now, I have to be honest here, We had to actually change a lot of names, and we're not allowed to bring you It's a good thing because if we showed you (Laughter) Or even worse, even worse, (Laughter) So this is, like I said, a real video, but what is real is it did attack, It actually did, maybe a coincidence. Those are real, real systems doing emails, real people sending out, but they are actually impacted and we don't know it. So then we turn on our shadow network. These are systems that behave like real. They interlace with the actual systems In fact, it's the bad guys into our systems, and we let them. &quot;Come on in!&quot; &quot;Send me an attachment!&quot; Because when they do that, Because we can't look but we can look into ours. And we can see the processes they use and then decide to quarantine using the software-defind networking. And then, they can't talk and instead, we tunnel them down that isn't real and they can take whatever they want. And we know exactly where they're going. Now, what would we do and more importantly, (Laughter) James Bond had a licence to kill. Or at least kick them Now, today 007 has an ally: Agent 001. So we've come to the end of our journey of confluence between two separate streams that come together We've seen technology go to leveraged, to replacing man, What comes after behaving, I wonder. Well, if history is any guide, if this technology will one day The question should be, will we ever even realize it? Thank you very much. (Applause)