- I'm from Staten Island. If you don't know what Staten island is, it's like New York's abortion that lived. So I would listen to &quot;Gangster's Paradise&quot; and it would make me, you get out of Staten Island. - Guy from New York! It's Pete Davidson. (audience laughing) - Yay! I just dropped out of (audience cheering) Yeah. I dropped out cause I was dorming That's it. (audience laughing) I didn't speak to any of my roommates. And I think it was cause we all woke up with a this isn't for any of us. (audience laughing) One time we ran out of toilet paper and we just didn't get any. (audience laughing) But everybody took a shit every day and nobody knew what they used. It was like this don't ask, (audience laughing) One time, my roommate with one sock. I was like, fuck we need This is getting real. (audience laughing) I have no game with women cause I went to an all which is like an educational cock block. It's not very fun. Here's something that should never happen in an all boys school, don't get an erection. (audience laughing) There's no excuse for that at all. It just shouldn't happen and priests are like sharks (audience laughing) I got my priest to stop It was easy. I introduced him to my little brother. (audience exclaiming) I got an A. (audience laughing) I'm a pothead, I'm pretty (audience cheering) Yeah. I smoke weed cause the (audience laughing) Like the cigarette commercials are good. They're good. The lady has no fingers. I'm like, nah, I need those. (audience laughing) How am I gonna smoke weed with no fingers? (audience laughing) There's certain things I I figured this out recently. I can't play Call of Duty 'cause I'm afraid of dying. (audience laughing) As soon as the game starts, I'm like, you guys go! I'm gonna listen to these for the next 32 minutes. All my friends are black, if Jordans. You ever have a black guy You're like, &quot;oh wow, these must be cool.&quot; (audience laughing) If a white guy compliments &quot;I'm going to throw these out. &quot;What do I look like I got a kid coming?&quot; (audience laughing) I'm from Staten island. I'm sorry, everybody. (audience cheering) You guys don't know what Staten island is, it's like New York's abortion that lived. It's this awful place where dreams die. And I'm from there. Like the only good thing we I think that's awesome. It's actually why I still live there. If I turn on Fox News and the guy's like, &quot;Woman rapes three kids I'm like, &quot;mom, I'm going camping.&quot; (audience laughing) You got that Boy Scout It won't fit you. That's the point. Yay! How are you guys? You good? (audience cheering) I'm very depressed, everybody. I am. I just turned 20. It's over. It's done. I just moved out of my mom's house and I've realized something, I'm gonna fucking die. I'm not gonna make it. I'm not. I thought about it. I'm 6'3. I'm 140 pounds. I have a problem with wind. (audience laughing) My friend's are like, I'm like, &quot;you gotta (audience laughing) You might lose a friend. (audience laughing) When I used to live with my mom I just thought she was annoying. I thought she was annoying and she cock blocked my masturbation time. (audience laughing) 'Cause she was the room next door. So every time I would get it going, I would like hear her sneeze and it would throw off my timing. (audience laughing) And I'm like, &quot;I can't finish now. &quot;Mommy's sick.&quot; (audience laughing) She might need these tissues. (audience laughing) I miss living in my mom's house. When I used to live at my mom's house, I used to be able to jerkoff in my bed and then the next day it would be gone. (audience laughing) Now I live on my own. Just stays there. It's not going anywhere. It's not going anywhere til I move. (audience laughing) I don't have the same jerking off by myself then because I used the jerkoff You know, cause it smelled (audience laughing) And I just realized now I was jerking off to my mom's scent, so Anyway. (audience laughing). Just hit me. No, but it was my biggest fear. Cause I used to jerkoff in and sometimes I would And my biggest fear is that one and get pregnant. (audience laughing) Every day I would clean my bathroom. My mom had no idea what was going on. She was just like, (audience laughing) And I'm like, you have no idea what I'm trying to prevent right now. (audience laughing) I had to move out. I had to It got really weird. She bought me condoms. And it's fine if you're a mom and you want to buy your son condoms, there's just a way to do it. You know, if you want just get 'em and leave 'em in his room. Don't tell him. He'll find 'em. That's the way... That's not what my mom did. My mom did something really weird, right? It was really weird. I was still staying at and it was like 11:30 at night. And she just barged in. She didn't text, knock, just barged in. And she was just like, (whispering)&quot; Hey, I And I was high, so I was like, &quot;what the fuck are you doing in here?&quot; (audience laughing) This is a little weird. I swear to God, I turned on the lights, this is what she does, and she pulls out a 40 pack. And I swear to God, this is what she does, she goes, &quot;I got every (audience laughing) And then she winked at me and I was like, &quot;you're giving the fucking weirdest vibe &quot;I've ever received in my life, ma. &quot;I know you're single. I'm not the guy. &quot;I think it's time to move out. &quot;This is really weird.&quot; (audience laughing) And she got me the 40 pack. I wanted to be like, &quot;who (audience laughing) I didn't even get to use 'em. I just opened all of them and So she would find them (audience laughing) I did. She found one the other day. She called me, she was like, I'm like, &quot;yeah, you It's an honor to be at a (audience laughing) Wow. Wow. Ludacris and Snoop Dogg are here. If I was 38, I'd be (audience laughing) Kev, I loved you as black Annie. It was so good. (audience laughing) Martha, it's nice to see you for the first time since prison. That's really nice. Martha's so old her first (audience laughing) What's up, Ludacris? What's up, man? You might know Ludacris from your mom's, &quot;That's What I Call Music&quot; CD. (audience laughing) Come on, let's hear it for Shaq. (audience cheering) Thanks for being here and taking a break from throwing barrels at Super Mario. (audience laughing) I'm sorry. Please don't eat me. (audience laughing) I'm so afraid. He's so big. One of the many nicknames And much like Superman, he and has never met his real father. (audience laughing) No, no, no, no, Shaq is cool though. Shaq has shattered eight (audience laughing) Hannibal. Hannibal Buress Hannibal. Hannibal, of course, is famous right, and only for exposing Bill Cosby. No, he deserved it though. Bill Cosby hurt those about the consequences that Hannibal Buress would become famous. (audience laughing) Snoop Dogg's here. Snoop. I love Snoop. You know? Snoop's son just got college football. (audience cheering) Yeah. So Snoop Dogg found out he has a son. (audience laughing) And now speaking of someone he has a son, Justin Give it up for him, he really is... It's really so cool what he's doing. You have no idea how awesome this is. My castmate on SNL, Kate McKinnon, of Justin. Perfect. Right down to the clit. (audience laughing) Justin has a lot of tattoos. You have &quot;Patience&quot; tattooed on your neck and &quot;This doesn't count&quot; (audience laughing) No, no, but Justin's (beep) (audience laughing) He's the only thing they (audience laughing) Justin, you know, I lost my dad on 9/11 and I always regretted until I met your dad, Justin. Now I'm glad mine's dead. (audience laughing) And now for the greatest of comedy, two people from the movie &quot;Soul Plane&quot; are here. (audience laughing) Right? Kevin, Snoop, &quot;Soul Plane&quot; of my life involving a plane. (audience laughing) You know last year we did Who's next? Flo, the progressive lady. (audience laughing) David, thanks for taking time to write &quot;Grownups Three&quot; to be here. (audience laughing) David Spade's assistant once and the world was shocked to find out you could afford an assistant. (audience laughing) - It's not bad. - Rob Riggle's here. I actually really love Rob Riggle. Rob. Yeah. Rob was a Marine. The few, the proud, which also describes his fans. (audience laughing) Peyton Manning's here. I (beep) love Peyton Manning. (audience cheering) He's the shit. Peyton looks like if to no longer need helmets. (audience laughing) No seriously, Peyton, I especially when I saw you &quot;Hey, you guys!&quot; (audience laughing) A super bowl is also what Peyton's mom had to cut his hair with as a child. (audience laughing) Jimmy Carr is here. When I first met Jimmy Carr, I thought, &quot;wow, Jeff Dunham's puppets (audience laughing) Jimmy, you look like a (audience laughing) Nikki Glaser's here. I'm friends with Nikki, You know, Nikki has a though most people call it &quot;Not Schumer.&quot; (audience exclaiming) Oh, (beep) you. (audience laughing) Well, Ralph Macchio's here. That's really cool. Right? Ralph Macchio, right. (audience clapping) You may know Ralph Macchio if you've been to the carwash (audience laughing) And Ann Coulter is here, everybody. Ann Coulter, if you're here, from our crops? (audience laughing) You know, Ann describes but most people call her a (beep). (audience laughing) You know, last year we had and now we have Ann Coulter (audience laughing) Anyway, Jewel's here. Jewel, I won't make fun of you yet cause I want to give everyone at home time to Google who you are. (audience laughing) My mom really wanted me (audience laughing) I don't know what the (beep) it is. If it's a phone, it's broken. But she'd really appreciate My mom came here to see you, so yeah. Let's hear it for Rob Lowe, okay. Right. (audience cheering) Rob Lowe. (audience cheering) - Thank you. - Or as gonorrhea doctors (audience laughing) People call Rob Lowe a bad actor, but that's only because they he didn't (beep) that nanny. (audience laughing) Rob has two beautiful kids here. Not his children, they're just (audience laughing) Rob was the first male Lee National Denim Day, which for breast cancer research. You know, that's a great thing. It's a disease... (audience clapping) It's a disease that his and great-grandmother suffered from. But you still (beep) a (audience laughing) It doesn't change anything. You still did that. - I'm coming for you. - No, seriously, thank I don't know why I'm here. I don't know who any of you are really. It's like I was born We'll do some 9/11 jokes out of here. How's that sound? It's hard to transition into anything. I don't have... I don't know if you noticed but there's not many transitions. (audience laughing) It's very like, dick, (beep), dad. Like it's like very straightforward, Like, it's not the Kendrick Lamar. I'm very French Montana of comedy. (audience laughing) Like after every joke I And you'd be like, &quot;aha! I get it.&quot; So yeah, my dad, if you don't know, he was a fireman, he died in 9/11. He was a very good dude. And I have a lot of jokes about it. And if you don't like the first one, you probably won't like the rest. (audience laughing) What's cool about your dad dying on 9/11 is, besides the free parking, is also... 0-1, Skirball. (audience laughing) That's not the only good come on. No, the cool thing about my was like, now I get all So whenever I smoke weed in (audience laughing) Yeah, so now people just (audience laughing) But I'll be so high, I'll forget. Like people come up to me and be like, &quot;you're a (beep) disgrace.&quot; And I'll be like, &quot;you're (audience laughing) And I'll be like, &quot;oh &quot;I forgot. I'm very sorry. &quot;Have a good day, ma'am.&quot; (audience laughing) I didn't really care when my dad died. It didn't bother me very You don't understand You know? If it happened now I'd But I'm actually, it's weird to say this, I'm lucky it happened when I was seven. I know that sounds weird, Like, I remember my dad &quot;your dad's dead, but we And I was like, &quot;yeah, cool.&quot; (audience laughing) I was like, that seems about even. That's pretty fair. No, I'm serious. I really didn't care. I was like, I'm gonna push to get a PS3. This is (beep) ridiculous. It's my new life of murder and toys. (audience laughing) What's weird is my grandma on her birthday is on 9/11 (audience exclaiming) Kind of fishy isn't it? (audience laughing) I always wanted to ask her. I always wanted to be like, &quot;Hey grandma, &quot;on the low, &quot;did you make any wishes?&quot; (audience laughing) I want to get a tattoo. I want to get my dad's initials. It's a very like Italian, I feel like Italian people are almost like waiting for someone in So they can go get a tattoo. (audience laughing) I'm serious. You ever been to like an and the son of whoever died going down their side? You're like, &quot;how the (beep) And it's like healed. (audience laughing) I want to get my dad's initials, you know. I want to get it tattooed on me. I feel like it'd be very cool. But I found out recently, I can't. I don't know why I never noticed it. I guess I just never pay attention. But my dad's initials are SMD. (audience laughing) Yeah. That's why we named the special, &quot;SMD.&quot; But SMD also has other meanings. Like for instance, suck my dick. (audience laughing) That's the more popular meaning. Believe it or not. (audience laughing) So my friends are like, &quot;because people will You know? And I agree. I'm like, &quot;you're right. I shouldn't.&quot; But then I thought about I was like, I could only win. I was like, if someone has the oh, I win, like so fast. (audience laughing) Like I will never lose. It's so dope. Think about that. I'll have it on my neck, girls come up to me and they're All I gotta do is be like, (whimpering). (audience laughing) Actually it's my dead dad's initials. And then they'll feel so bad, (audience laughing) I love rap music. It's my favorite. Yeah, I used to get bullied in high school. I wanted to be a rapper and (audience laughing) It's kind of a dope... Right? No, it's kind of good. It's kind of a dope name. It's kind of a dope name. You could agree, it's a good name. I remember one of my lines one of them was, &quot;popped tire, So... But I always used to listen to hip hop. Never had friends. So I used to just hang cause it would be motivating and hip hop makes you But the weird thing would be like, my friends are all in their So like, they like a Like they love Biggie in the way... I like Biggie too. But the way that... All right, relax. (audience laughing) Yeah, he's not here. Obviously. (audience laughing) Yeah. I know that wasn't easy, and I (beep) dunked it, so Anyway, no, but when my older like they talk about him You know, they feel it. They're like, &quot;oh, he Like, if he was alive today, You know, it's so sad that he died. And I always try to make them feel better cause I feel for them and I'm like, &quot;it's probably better &quot;than like now of like natural causes.&quot; (audience laughing) You know? Yeah, it's better he got that took Biggie down. (audience laughing) Biggie died on Crenshaw, what happened? Burger. It was a burger. (audience laughing) My favorite rapper is Coolio. I love Coolio. (audience cheering) He's still alive. You know, he's been alive So, you know, he's healthy He's a reliable guy to love. Like I never wake up like, &quot;Oh, you know what I mean? I know he's out there somewhere. Love (beep) Coolio. He's the man. First time I ever heard was in a movie. (audience cheering) Yeah. Right? Most of you probably know the I wasn't alive when that was a thing. I know it from &quot;Pain and Michael Bay movie. (audience laughing) So, and another reason &quot;Gangster's Paradise&quot; is So like, I can sing it drunk You know what I mean? Like I could sing it no matter where I am. I grew up in Staten Island in Staten Island, you're a construction worker that beats his wife. Like, you know, like that's, you know? So I would listen to &quot;Gangster's Paradise&quot; and it would make, you know, of Staten Island. (audience laughing) (upbeat music)