"Mysterious guests under the table" is when it comes to products from AliExpress. But even though the descriptions are sometimes pretty much only there you can get the newest, But getting those useful hidden gems can be of garbage out there and that is why in this at 6 more products in order to find out whether them. Let's get started! This video is sponsored by Rohde &amp; Schwarz; who not only create awesome gear but also about certain electronics topics. And today I want to show you their definitive vector network analysis that you can download Now granted this subject is not super simple closer to understanding the black magic technology So have fun with it. Now the first thing I got actually needs two to me on my discord server. And those products are a 9.7 inch replacement 26EUR and the other item is of course a fitting for around 16EUR. So combined this set costs around 42EUR which 10 inch screens you can get on the market. And not only that, this put together set also 1536. That means it could be promising for gaming, mini monitor. So let's finally stop talking about the theory board and power it all with a 5V Power Supply And initially I thought my LCD was damaged But soon I realized that I was being stupid way around which immediately fixed the problem. So for a first test I hooked this screen up And I got to say this worked beautifully because crisp and vivid, the possible viewing angle most important settings in the menu. Combine that with the fact that the screen you got yourself an awesome mini screen that for gaming without a problem. And the last positive thing I want to mention which makes it very simple to create an enclosure On the negative side though, I have to say but annoying high pitch hum, listen: So here I would definitely recommend using not least I have to say that I was not able USB C port. But besides those nitpicks, this screen is it gets a big thumbs up from me. Ok moving on to a product that is maybe not USB C connectors, that you can get 10 pieces I mean it is pretty simple stuff, you got USB C Cable and then you get 5V on the output But the little details here that the socket you can use M2.5 screws to attach it to a also offers mechanical dimensions, makes it But sadly this product is not perfect because USB-A output of your power supply and it does To get around this limitation though we can pins broken out. Here we simply have to add a 5.1kohm resistor one data pin to its neighbor CC pin and badabum draw the maximum available 5V current. So yeah like I said, this product is not perfect a maker. And with that being said we come to the third that supposedly can do long distances and And yes this was the product with the mysterious also a black technology blessing, whatever So let me spare you from the rest of the production can do wireless charging alone up to 25mm inserting this pad in between phone and charger. Now I initially got interested in this product fill up my phone during the night since that thus therefore will hopefully hold up longer. Only problem is that this charger needs to it impossible to hide it in a drawer or similar. So this product could be a remedy for that of wood laying around for testing the smaller the bigger distance. And long story short I was pretty disappointed the pad was only around 15mm and charging And worst of all while charging through the my power supply required a total of 22Wh to In comparison my so far used wireless charger C cable only 11Wh meaning this long distance promises, but it also quite inefficient; meaning The only thing I found interesting was the basically just a coil with attached capacitor Ok; next we got a product that I have seen tool that you can get for just 4EUR. The idea is that you can insert 2, 3, 4 or together to create a permanent connection. And I got to say that after using this tool because it works like advertised and you save of every wire. Now granted the results can look a bit messy, and solid. So I bet this connection method comes with my favorite Wago connectors. But I would still prefer using those because this mechanical connection can loose a bit loaded connector will always hold on tight. And also keep in mind that this twister tool too thin wire. So in conclusion Wago is king; but I feel thing so I kind of have to give it a thumbs So moving on to this coin cell like thingy a Bluetooth Beacon that you can get for around I got interested in it after I did a video as a positioning system that sadly though So I thought maybe this thing can do indoor out, I of course firstly had to open it up, a coin cell, download the given app for it And it seems like the accelerometer on the work just fine. But sadly all temperature related stuff didn't made it look like that should work too. And even worse I still had no idea how to out for that I required another app. But even with that and after doing some calibrations, was all over the place and certainly not precise So I don't know; I don't really see the point low power and thus only requires around 20 But if you got a good application for it then but for now it is a thumbs down from me. And last but not least I got myself this beefy video because this is not your ordinary 12V and can be bought for around 58EUR. Now for a power supply with a 500W power rating hooking it up, you can see that by using the the output voltage between 0V and 14.5V. use it as a universal power supply for various And I know that you can hack a normal power me tell you that this solution right here So I did some testing with 3.3V, 5V and 12V of current on the output while looking at power. And I got to say that the output noise was with the efficiency of the power supply especially low currents. But then again on the plus side, it was super meaning this product is a bit of a mixed bag And with that being said we are done with I found some new hidden gems you might see And like always this is not the end of the go through, so stay tuned for the next episode. Until then don't forget to like, share, subscribe, this show on Patreon to keep it going. Stay creative and I will see you next time.