Stories of individuals who went from rags age are some of the most inspiring and enthralling The lower the status of the eventually triumphant is no status in the medieval world lower than In this video, we will examine the origins progenitor - a slave who created a massive it to Islamic conquerors for the first time. And now a few words about the sponsor of this 7.5 billion humans might be playing Raid: so let us tell why you should join them. Raid Shadow Legends is choke-full of content, super tough Boss requiring specific strategies with 12 unique locations. 13 unique Factions - like Dwarves, Orcs, the What we like about Raid is the great music from 460 Champions - each totally unique, Raid's the hottest mobile game around - and You can play any time anywhere on mobile or Raid is constantly updating and just released Advanced Quest system with amazing rewards. They also added some amazing new Champions, Doom Tower as we speak! Support us, click on the special link in the will get 50,000 silver + 50 Gems + 1 Energy + 1-day xp booster + 1 free champion - Executioner. The Abbasid Caliphate began to weaken as a onwards, with the core of the empire in Baghdad One of the local dynasties that rose to power Supposedly descended from the great Sassanid an eighth-century Persian noble called Saman Islam in the 720s. After helping Caliph al-Ma'mun's governor Khuda's four grandsons were each rewarded a region which would serve as the Samanid Nuh was granted the city of Samarkand, Yahya stationed in Herat and, perhaps most importantly, All four of these men ruled small, feudal-like Ahmad's son, Isma'il ibn Ahmad, conquered Saffarids, and unified the scattered Samanid Abbasid suzerainty. Isma'il then shifted his capital to the Due to the proximity of the great steppe, duty of keeping the nomads at bay by launching Islam's frontiers. In 893 Isma'il launched a great expedition of the Karluk Turks - carrying off a grand This was supplemented by continuous smaller-scale as their warriors would go across the border As a result of this, a steady trickle of Turkic Abbasid Caliphate. However, by the late 10th century, the Samanids To defend itself, armies of the Samanid realm soldiers. These former nomads had been used for civilian during most of the emirate's history, but otherwise as mamluks or ghulans - became vastly This process of increasing reliance might rise of mercenary use in the Byzantine Empire, auxiliaries in Imperial Roman armies. As in the case of notable Germanic generals Turkic slave soldiers could also become incredibly military and political power. With that said, we can introduce our main Abu Mansur Sabuktegin was a boy born of Turkic regions of modern Kyrgyzstan. The ruler of his birthplace of Barskhan was that Sabuktegin himself also had Karluk ancestry, His enslavement as a youth was a textbook on the Central Asian steppe during, before, of how the majority of slaves were sold into Constant warfare and smaller-scale marauding tribes over land, women, and prestige, and Sabuktegin was captured by the rival Bakhtiyan Whilst for sale in this silk road oasis town, called Nusr-Haji and purchased as a slave. Slavery is always a horrific practice, but identical connotations of unfair, back-breaking us today. Instead, Sabuktegin was taken to a school others like him. There, he was trained extensively and groomed The curriculum was probably made up of military with different types of weaponry, cavalry After this period of intensive training, Sabuktegin of Nishapur. There, he managed to catch the eye of a fellow to a far higher rank. This was a man named Alptigin, who subsequently As a 'mere' slave himself, Sabuktegin's for a young ghulam - the perfect example of given time, skill and fierce loyalty. After being captured as a child, Alptigin emir's bodyguard, consisting of ghulam. For years of loyal service, he was then appointed successor Abd al-Malik I. This was perhaps the wealthiest silk road the extraordinary trust placed in him by the After his integration into Alptigin's ghulam, reliability in his master's service, rising personal guard of Samanid governors. We don't know, but it's possible that younger man. By the age of 18, Sabuktegin was trusted By 961, Alptigin had risen to the lofty status in Khurasan, undoubtedly the emirate's largest This also gave him unprecedented levels of al-Malik couldn't even make decisions without in Khurasan. However, Abd al-Malik's untimely death at and changed the future for Sabuktegin and Alptigin attempted to play kingmaker, supporting supreme power. However, a more influential political faction, Abd al-Malik's brother Mansur. It quickly became clear that Alptigin wouldn't and, fearing that his dominant position in potentially hostile successor, he escaped numbering a few thousand men. On his march, Alptigin subdued an Iranian of a Hindu Shahi king in Kabul. He then pushed south, eventually arriving Ghazna. After a grueling four-month siege, Alptigin vassal Lawik, and set up there. If he had conquered a city in the Emirate's but Ghazna was a backwater settlement on the However, there is evidence that a military soundly defeated outside Ghazna's gates, Alptigin finally passed away in 963 and was who also inherited his slaves. This short rule didn't begin well, because the city briefly. Ishaq and Sabuktegin then fled to Bukhara for aid. Sabuktegin supposedly impressed the Samanid piety. In 965, Ishaq returned to Ghazna with Samanid reconquer the city, but then he died in 966. The now-free Turkic warriors in Ghazna chose the city for the next eleven years, during and more authority. It is said that he would win other army chiefs them twice a week. In 977, Sabuktegin managed to repel another his victory to become governor of the city Seeking to use the legacy of Alptigin to gain then married his former master's daughter. The young Karluk boy who had been taken from made a life for himself. Military expansion also began almost immediately A dispute between two Saffarid ghulam leaders that he needed to intervene, capturing Kandahar Empire. He undertook administrative reforms in order which had been introduced to Ghazna by the The mixture of Persian bureaucrats and Indian used to run the region were kept in place. Despite essentially being an autonomous ruler, power, Sabuktegin continued to present himself We can see this, because coins minted in the the Samanid emir more prominently than his Taking his subordinate role seriously, the son - Mahmud of Ghazna - marched to help Emir 993. They succeeded by August of 994, managed to appropriately. Sabuktegin was made the official governor Gharchistan, and was given the prestigious Mahmud was given command of all the emir's provinces. Still the Samanids were now in terminal decline, either seized outright in Transoxiana by the by their Ghaznavid 'governors' in Khurasan Both Emir Nuh II and Sabuktegin passed away ill whilst campaigning near Balkh at the age The inheritance of his realm was intended relatives, most prominently his son Mahmud - and Isma'il - a younger son who was the This prestigious parentage led Sabuktegin and Balkh upon his death. However, Isma'il was inexperienced when clear that the arrangement could never last. In 998, Mahmud of Ghazna marched from Khurasan personal control over all his late father's The rump Samanid attempted to send a governor from Mahmud. The ambitious new ruler was furious at this mopping up his rivals, marched back into his Empire. Mahmud did not respect the Samanids' symbolic had done, but nevertheless used the pretext avenger of the final deposed emir, and crushed Representing the ailing dynasty in this self-interested 999, Caliph al-Qadir granted Mahmud an illustrious al-Dawla, or the 'Right Hand of the State'. He was now sultan - the caliph's protector owed symbolic fealty. Sultan Mahmud's first concern was his affluent, Its fertile agriculture, extensive trade connections, material for the campaigns Mahmud would embark Naturally, Mahmud had to protect his frontier To do this, he initially entered a diplomatic chief who had conquered Samanid Transoxiana. However, the decentralised tribal Karakhanid existed, and the various Kara-khans continued They invaded the region twice, in 1006 and During the first war, two nomadic armies launched and managed to capture Nishapur and Balkh, back across the Oxus. The invasion of 1008 came to an end with a which finally ended the Karakhanids' southern During this battle, a massed charge of the and broke the nomadic forces. The Karakhanids subsequently entered a period again. The Ghaznavids then asserted dominion over controlled by the Samanids, such as Sistan, and especially Khwarezm. This strategically placed oasis was another paradise, located on the western flank of In order to seize it, Mahmud used a shrewd of the reigning Khwarezmian Emir, and then in the oasis realm. This deliberately provoked a violent local killed, giving the sultan a pretext to intervene The most famous (or infamous) of Mahmud's he launched into India. Almost every single winter, the great conqueror increasingly prosperous city of Ghazna, supplemented the Islamic world. All in all, Ghaznavid armies invaded Indian carrying off loot and slaves, destroying Hindu The climax of the campaigns was in 1025, when inhospitable Thar desert, and then onto the grand temple complex at Somnath . Contained or 'great god' Shiva, which was served revenue from 10,000 villages. The Sultan plundered his way through Gujurat, defenders, and the temple was seized. Precious stones and gems stored there were and the structure was torched. It is said that Mahmud of Ghazna personally and then carried the shards back to his capital, into the steps of Ghazna's Friday mosque. For this, he was known forever after as Mahmud Plunder from the raid exceeded a blistering supposedly exceeded 50,000. News of the sultan's victory at Somnath and to reward him, more honorific titles were However, other Turkic conquerors, the Seljuks episode we will talk about their clash with to our channel and have pressed the bell button. We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and