There are over 10,000 ETFs out there all trying that overwhelming, you're not alone. I spent ETF managers in the world. What I learned is imagine. But they're also very easy to navigate most valuable investing videos you're going expert investor. And I'm also going to tell you actual names to invest in. So let's start at the it says on the tin. It's a fund or a basket of Now the most popular ETFs usually just contain Commodities. So a gold ETF might just be a basket gold mining stocks. But today, we're going you're going to come across most commonly in the about. There's passive ETFs and active ETFs. So tries to return the performance of a benchmark An active manager tries to beat that index we can outperform the index. Now in the case because they're transparent. You can simply look the case of an active ETF, these are often black be ARK's ETFs. Probably the biggest reason to charge a lot higher fees. So passive ETFs now have studies and what they found was quite remarkable. comments on social media using nothing but emojis actually, I'm joking, that's not the case. biggest predictor of a fund's performance and, common sense but you'd be surprised at how many fees. Here's the biggest problem. Active only 5% of them can beat the Benchmark. In 95% of the time you're not going to outperform pay extra money to an active manager so they can't That's why you should only focus on passive ETFs. the members of an ETF, the stocks that it contains the index. And if you want to understand any given So all passive ETFs are going to track an index. typically created by a third party. Now MSCI, we created over 280,000 indices for our clients. ever existed. And they're just one index provider. can have a financial product attached to it. investors don't understand is that when BlackRock like let's say IonQ, it's not because they It's because the size of the company dictates that it gets added to a particular index, then shares of financial products tied to that index and that company. So always distinguish between passive that hold a particular stock. So if you want to on our desk, this is one of the documents that we Global Investable Market Indices Methodology and complicated this domain is. This is a 207-page don't care about that stuff, you care about ETFs. using MSCI as an example, is that they'll license points, five basis points, half a basis point, I have the best research team in the industry. But then what they plan to do is offer the performance right? Now a passive ETF manager who outperforms offer the performance of that index as close as this term's important to understand. It's called between the index performance and the ETF's simply be, ideally, it's zero but it's going to be going to look at that. Now the mechanics of an ETF You want to understand how an ETF works? We do a look at the index and dig into how that works documents like the one I showed you from MSCI. Now the world, that's a great place to start. That right? Well, that's called the MSCI ACWI and it world. And here you can see where it's further markets; MSCI Emerging Markets, then we have all slicing and dicing. You can see where they're what we used to call Standard, I think, they right? They're looking at that by market cap, for example, MSCI Emerging Markets small cap. down even further. You could say, I want MSCI can start slicing and dicing this universe even yield. And what you end up with, based on all And I've put here the largest ETFs out there, the from VettaFi, you see the top 10 here. We read the 500 largest companies in the United States. stock market. That's not just the 500 largest, you have QQQ, that's NASDAQ. Then look, Vanguard cap? I don't know. We'd have to go and start this stuff works. Now people say, well, which ETFs just about stocks. You can also have other asset or real estate or alternative assets. Gold would Commodities. But one simple effective strategy portfolio. This is from Bogle. He's the the thank the Lord, right? So keeping it in the family large ETF providers of what a three-fund portfolio at the top, so you have iShares Core S&amp;P Total Then you have a- look, there's MSCI. MSCI Total something. IXUS. So it's XUS. Make sure that otherwise you're double counting there. You have US Stocks International stocks and bonds. Some bonds. Well, fine. All right, so you can make it claim to offer this sort of exposure such as the pay attention to fees. Look at they're charging of funds, man. You got to be careful. You'll get other ETFs and that their charging fees. Now you this brings us to the most important part of this okay? I love this chart here from justETF for an ETF investment. So we're going to focus what you want to pay attention to. And as I performance of the index minus the expense ratio they call here tracking difference. Now I don't as tracking error or tracking difference in they all have this, for the performance of the ETF over time. That's what you're paying attention to. there's various reasons for that. And three about these because they're important. Well, right, because if you're going to have more than Rebalancing costs. Swap Spread and Securities physical replication. How does that ETF provider way they might do that is simply to go out and buy that waiting accordingly. And that's what they in as many cases as possible, we try to use full other methods too. Also, what's called Sampling. you just buy some or optimization, where you do there's various reasons why firms do this. A lot when you move away from Full Replication, tracking manage and it becomes more expensive to manage. So if you want to know what sort of replication tracking error, it covers all this, right? go look at the the number of stocks being held in is typical information provided in a fact sheet very quickly if the numbers are nearly identical, method of replication that I think is very suspect this is where the idea of a swap spread starts assets of the underlying index and they're using an example that would be Cannabis ETFs in the to hold cannabis stocks. So the use swaps instead more expensive. So be very wary of synthetic they start to get too fancy. That's never, in the investor. And then that brings us to Securities server. We had some good conversations around they pose key questions for Securities lending. grilling your ETF provider about their Securities Securities that they're holding within their stocks. These are questions that you might ask. revenues from security lending are allocated to manager? Oh boy. They talk about borrower default a default? This is counterparty risk. And this takeaways from this presentation, honestly. Reduce reputable ETF providers out there. Competent firms performance and manage their risks, okay. And their customers whole because their reputation is heavy AUM products. What that will make sure of is will understand the game, all right, better than graph showing individual investors and how much holding. It's around 20%. That's actually higher activity or ETF investing is done by institutions. you're not going to run into any problems. Stay active managers. Again, we covered that. You don't fees as a determining factor when you're comparing would tend to lean towards because they're going So maybe temporarily one of their competitors is to play catchup real quick because that's what Tracking error should always be index return minus chart here. So when you're looking at that ETF simply see how close it came to offering you the questions investors would ask, can I lose all this question refers to systemic risk. If you you're going to be just fine. If everyone gets there ETFs you should avoid? Well, yeah, stay leveraged stuff like that. JEPI is quite suspect a previous video. What about zero-cost funds? lending Securities to help pay for costs. There's can't take that product with you. I would stick those types of products. For reasons that we've about that three-fund approach. Well, fine. Let portfolios. It's very edifying. thank you so