All right. We're checking out the only game where you can give by literally cutting it completely in half. It's Cities: Skylines. [music] Welcome back to the land So here's the plan. I keep on hearing about how Florida to the bottom of the ocean and California is just going to get So before any of that happens, I am going to cut the entire United States I am going to fill it with as many human beings as I can before my game Then, we're going to cause the apocalypse. A never-ending apocalypse, Then we'll find and we'll know exactly where we-we First thing's first, I am going to build You can see how [laughs] Bob Ross-level perfect this is. The last time, we had maybe like, 10,000 people living here I'm not stopping until I have enough stuff And maybe [?]. Great. Why is there two cuts in the United States? Well, I'm going to fill the middle I would-I would hate to have someone from, like North Dakota, I might even have to get rid of Florida, I need to take a moment, You need to realize just 'cause these are full-sized roads. I told you, continent is completely filled with people. Ah, yes, this is how Greg See that? We're going to do that to the entire place. Now, before I go too far, the very first thing that we need and the only way to do that is to murder Murder, murder, murder, murder, That's right. You can't spell GSP As usual, that any child that's like, &quot;Daddy, The father needs to be like, &quot;No, son. No one leaves the ground in this city." Oh, right now we need to start putting and then all the water that will no They say that water is the stuff of life, but it ends up killing a lot [laughs] It's almost always I'm gonna drain the oceans dry. I've been working on the cells [?] a lot, so I decided to head up over here, Get a hoagie and also rust Basically, I want so many people another that if the natural disasters I spawn doesn't kill the tens There, you know what? You get something different, because up here the sun never shines. Down in Florida it's sunny 320 days a year. Okay. Stuff is starting to get built. As you can see, I told you. I've decided that I'm probably [crosstalk] No, God. California and Florida. See that? If I do that, it'll make the United States kind of perfect, actually. Okay, so I actually should have thought but if I'm going to fill it's gonna leak out the sides, hold on, unless I allow it to go Now, unfortunately, that means yes, California is probably Oh, yeah, Look at how stupid everything We need more tourism. I want people to come here and leave with gonorrhea. All right, there's some sightseeing. There's there's a bus stop. I like how there's a-there's Truly a sigh to see. [screaming] A sigh, or a sight? Oh, this is a professionally made game, I'm sure they would never There's nothing to do on the weekends. I would like to go shopping. I don't remember giving Okay, this is kind of- I actually have to play somewhat smart in order to get enough people to move in, I want many, many tens of thousands of-- Oh, God, something's on fire. There better not be a pizza place. Ah, it's right next to the yakisoba place. What is it, like a car dealership? I'm just gonna let that burn. Where has everybody gone? [laughs] Well, if you're talking about the people there's heaven or hell, take your pick. I think the best part is it's really easy to see Do I smell smoke? There's a forest fire. Nope. That's a people fire. God, what is it, rain kerosene this place? All right. Now I've got everything Unfortunately, that means that pretty much the entire western part As you can see, 17,000 still not even I still get frames per second. It's not good enough especially going to fill up all available space, all available space, like packing people into a sardine All right. time to take a look I'm gonna downtown Sadville home every once in a while, I feel like it adds to the-the decor. Where's everyone at? I love how I can't find people anywhere, except over here It's like 2:00 in the morning Ah, here we go. Wow. [laughs] I-I found everyone, oh my God, you gotta be aggressive to get out of here. This is the type of thing where you're trying And you've been there And finally, or I'm getting into an accident. Well, everyone's going into the city, Ah, waterfront property filled I love how the only thing is prove that the earth Oh, yeah, I'm having flashbacks in Miami. Look at all the cars [?] How-how many people is this? Do people breathe like rabbits? Man, how do you lower the fertility I love how no one's using the middle Okay, 22,000, still not good enough, Okay, we are at 26,000 now. The level of poop surrounding It's actually beginning What? [music] What? Where are you going? [laughs] There's nothing here. There's just one guy. He's like, &quot;You may have split the north but I'll just walk there.&quot; Legit, this person is they-- They're walking That's -. I mean, I commend your willpower. I don't know. Okay, 28,000 people. All right, mother nature's She's flooding part of the United States. This actually has nothing what I was attempting to do. It just decided to happen. Can you stop murdering everyone? I need to get over 30,000. I know there's there's not a lot I'll find something. Seems like a really bad place to park. [screams] Ah, crap. Well, it is a lot of cars washing away. [laughs] Nothing I can't fix, of course. I love it. Warning, tsunami wave detected. [siren] Yeah. You know who else detected it? The 10,000 people. Tsunami has struck the city. I know. Avoid roads and waterfronts Avoid? Who should I call when no one That's probably my fault. Okay, so since that little Um, with the flooding, over into the north Uh, hold-hold on. Let me-let me show you something. Look at this. [laughs] It's like-it's like travelers There's like 30,000 people moving in. [laughs] I love how the south side of the United States floods You think you'll be safe? Okay. Back up to 28,000. It's like the game really Okay. At this point, with places for people [bell rings] Whoops, everything looks like this. Now, well, all right, apparently, there are a lot of hearses on this street. Listen, we're churning through bodies On a side note, I have essentially burning the dead to run the entire country. Okay, at this point, I have so much crap going on that the game Do you know what this means? It's time to begin. I just-- just a little taste. I'm not gonna hit Meteorologist has. The middle of the cities. I just wanna kind of give them a little, like a natural disaster flight if you will, get a taste test Ah, yeah, meteor strike. Put that up, well. Astrologist report will strike the city in the near future. Technically it's gonna Automation, how about we stick Oh really? Okay, 30,000 FPS is dying. It's a murderthon time. A tornado has touched down in [?]. All right. We got a tornado? Look at the FPS. There's so much stuff. Seek shelter immediately if any [?]. Don't you dare seek shelter. Oh, God. In the affected area. I-- everything I-- A meteor strike just occurred. Everything I put down is hitting [laughs] Oh, it's a trio of twisters. They come in threes. I love how there's some helicopters Oh, yeah. Oh, everyone's on fire now. Luckily the twister and the rain This is truly the apocalypse. This is what I wanted. See, you have to build up enough like you're destroying The helicopter is still there. Look at these two tornadoes, Computer melting from the end of the world. I love how there's still 30,000 people. Finally, starting to go down. Hold on. All the twisters are coming together Look at it. [laughs] I took the dog for a walk, After all that, that I just did Clearly, I'm not trying hard More, more, the mayor just won the most attractive city award. How most of the city is underwater? The expectations must be incredibly low. Anytime you look up at the sky oh, God. Yeah. [screaming] The meteor [?] [crosstalk] Head to shelter, if any is available. A meteor strike has occurred. [?] Oh, yeah. It's like-- This is like Bruce Willis There we go. A meteor strike has occurred. I got rid of like 2,000 people instantly. That wasn't too bad. Anytime you look at the screen and crossbones that's when you know There is so much stuff here. I still have to break. You ever been backhanded by lightning? Yeah, we got 22,000 highly Okay. The fourth fire is raging [?]. These people still won't die. So what I've decided to do [?] fire is raging the area. Was cut a hole between the north I didn't wanna keep Here comes the wave of death. [laughs] I just saw my car go past my window. I live on the fifth floor. You can see everyone is desperately Guess what? There is no escape. You think you get a run away from this? And we have touchdown. It's good, more meteors. I decided to line the entire country, Look at how perfect my outline My paint by numbers You have no idea how much it's taken to get that little creature on the bottom, I have been blasting Look at how many icons are on the screen. [laughs] Everything's on fire. So at this point A meteor strike has occurred. [?] at this point I-- I've clicked the meteor so many times It just never stops at this point. Not only that A meteor strike has occurred. [?] but the water of the center of the divide I made. And the entire country is underwater. I found where everyone is left alive, Tsunami has struck the city. [?] And so I think, you know what time it is. I simply think they are ugly. Please, no more lightning rods. Oh really? There we go. I'm not gonna lie. I have Tsunami has struck the city. [?] built this place up so much there's still 2,300 people living All right. Down to 2,100-- What Amanda Chapman feeling Why would you wanna go outside, This is something you don't see every day. Tsunami has struck the city. [?] It is an entire block All right, we're down to 900. See, I'm-I'm actually I-I decided to spawn a tornado to see if I could suck up some of the water, because this lady has been telling like, 30 minutes. [background noise] [music] Okay. We're down to 77, 78. I don't know how we got City attractiveness, 27%. How? Tsunami has struck the city. [?] All right, so right about-- [laughs] I was gonna say, right about here Yes, we're down to five people. Oh, I wiped out 50 people in one shot. All right, we got two people left alive in here, but they're building-- [laughs] in this entire area [bell Okay, so that-that building's on fire. This building is flooding, The other has one person in it, so then the question [laughs] The flood or the fire? Okay, there's two people left. Where are they? Okay, hold on. [gasping] One person left. This is it. [music] where are you? Where are you-you beautiful winner? There it is. The Butler Residence. [music] The last people left alive. Okay, they just died. All right, so we're down to zero. But that was the last winner, which means that the place in the longest is New Mexico. [laughs] I never would've thought. Well, to repeatedly destroy it with apocalypses, specifically for the scientific reason where you should go when the world ends. Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed Till next time. Stay foxy and much love.