In 1066, the history of the British Isles Under its new Norman-French overlords, the what the Anglo-Saxon Kings never had: the However, while it took William the Conqueror all England, his successors would need over heel. In this third episode on the history of medieval invasions into the land of Cadwaladr's Dragon, most fearsome foreign invader to date. You too were invaded long ago by bundles of who demand to be transported around in your entitlement. Throw off the yoke of your day to day oppressors First there's the Ridge wallet. It fits everything you'll need with less We tested it out, and it's smaller than And it's not because it's shoddy; the compactness it comes with a lifetime guarantee. There's space for twelve cards, and there's cash to the side as well. Choose your favourite of the many designs solution. Usually you'll be encumbered by keys as This sleek little gadget holds six keys in of keyrings that tangle with each other or too. The lifetime guarantee covers the Keycase money back guarantee on their products if setup. Check out Ridge's selection by using link KINGSANDGENERALS to get ten percent off the In the year 1039, twenty-seven years before ap Llywelyn assumed the Kingship of Gwynedd. In the first five years of his reign, he managed at Welshpool, subjugated the Kingdom of Deheubarth, the bay of Pwlldyfach. Gruffydd's relationship with the various for in 1052, he allied with a large Hiberno-Norse of Herefordshire. Gruffydd of Gwynedd was able to get away with by playing the powerful lord of England off alliances with others, such as with AElfgar, With the help of AElfgar, he brutally subdued In doing so, the King of Gwynedd united all However, this grand unification would prove When Gruffydd's ally, the Lord of Mercia, position. That same year, a certain Harold Godwinson, a huge offensive into Wales, overrunning the A year later, Gruffydd's household, likely him. Had Gruffydd ap Llywelyn reigned for longer, into a more permanent state of unification, previous century. However, this was not to be, and his death splitting along its traditional boundaries Cruising on the glories of his successes in Saxon Witenagemot to be King of England after Confessor. This reign would not last out the year, for was slain in battle by a rival claimant to Thus, centuries of Anglo-Saxon rule in England Thereafter, the most powerful Kingdom in the a French-speaking aristocracy. Shortly after his ascension, William of Conqueror, earldoms in Hereford, Shrewsbury and Chester, who he entrusted with guarding the Welsh border. At the time, Wales was divided principally During William's reign, the border was relatively ap Tewdwr of Deheubarth, entered into tributary This, however, did not stop some ambitious anyways. In 1072, the intrepid knight-errant Robert of Gwynedd and erected a castle there, establishing In general, Norman knights were a notoriously new frontier of land and wealth. From 1088 onwards, the Lord of Herefordshire, the territory of Brycheiniog. This provoked a fierce retaliation from King mounted knights in a battle at Aberhonddu Rhys' death meant that Deheubarth was now soon overran it. Meanwhile, Robert of Rhuddlan had long since In just a few years of ingress, the marcher The Cymri, however, would soon make the Normans Back in 1055, a child of Princely stock was Gruffudd ap Cynan was a descendant of Rhodri born across the sea from his ancestral homeland, After an initial failed attempt in 1075, Gruffydd 1081. However, he would not enjoy his crown for with several other Norman marcher lords to meeting, only to treacherously imprison him. Thereafter, Robert of Rhuddlan became the Norman-style Motte and Bailey castles throughout being overrun by other Norman marcher lords. If the traditional account is to be believed, Cynan escaped his Norman captors, and on July in a Skirmish on the limestone shores of the After this, Hugh 'le Gros' d'Avranches, overlord. That same year, the fire of rebellion erupted In southern Wales, King Cadwgan ap Bleddyn that saw his warband tear through Deheubarth Simultaneously, the Britons of Gwynedd erupted to throw Hugh of Chester out on his rump, throne. From there, he joined forces with Cadwgan, a leading figure in the Welsh insurrection. To help his Marcher Lords subdue this rebellion, into Wales in 1095 and 1097, but the Kings battle with this royal army. Unable to feed and pay his men indefinitely, accomplished little to nothing. Meanwhile, two other Norman armies were ambushed battles at Gelli Tarfawg, in Gwent, and Aberllech, The tides began to turn in 1098, when the Castle Pembroke. From this fortress, the Norman marcher lords and Earl Hugh of Shrewsbury joined their forces all the way up to the isle of Anglesey. In this, the Normans were aided by an influential The rebel Kings hired a fleet of Irish Vikings the Normans simply bribed these Vikings to to go into exile again after losing Gwynedd However, in one of medieval history's more King of Norway, happened to be sailing through For whatever reason, he clashed with the Normans Hugh of Shrewsbury was slain. Due to this, the Kings of Powys and Gwynedd Normans out of Northern Wales. By 1099 it was clear, as things stood, that resources and strategy to completely subdue So both Cynan and Cadwgan sat down for peace II, son of William the Conqueror. In the following proceedings, the crown of ap Cynan as the rightful King of Gwynedd and ruler of Powys and Ceredigion. However, much of southern Wales would remain For the next two hundred years, while Southern Wales would remain a center of Briton independence, become known as the Welsh Marches. Let us now take a break from the march of what politics, warfare, and culture looked Contrary to the picture we have thus far painted, middle ages was not just a raw struggle for Despite the perpetual threat of the Normans, renaissance. In the timeline of Welsh poetry, the years y Tywysogion: the Poets of the Princes. During this time, Bards commanded a position Kings would have a bardd teulu: a household Occupying a prestigious seat on the King's to sing to the King's troops before they privately for the Queen. Perhaps the most famous bardd teulu was Meilyr Gruffudd ap Cynan of Gwynedd. Welsh Kings in this era were also known to traditions were made accessible to more people These schools were run by pencerdd: chief next to the King's heir in the royal court. The incredibly dense corpus of Welsh-language century which survives to this day proves independence, the Kingdoms of the Celtic Britons sophisticated peoples of the high middle ages. Nevertheless, the shadow of the English Crown were also highly militarized societies, whose relationship with the foreign commandants homeland. Over two centuries, the number of Norman lordships them, and the total amount of Welsh territory However, they all shared the same characteristics. For one thing, the Norman Lords in southern Although they owed nominal fealty to the crown that their counterparts in England did not and the right to pass their own laws. Most importantly, Norman marcher lords had guarded privilege which the English Crown in England. The reason for this was that castles were dominance in the lands they conquered. In England itself, the English Kings saw little castles, for it would empower them and risk Moreover, since the Anglo-Saxon peoples had need for them. However, in the Welsh frontier, where the the English Crown allowed their frontier lords To this day, modern Wales still has the highest a testament to how many fortifications the Britons. It should also be noted that, in the parts and ethnic makeup was still composed of a Granted, King Henry I did encourage the migration Southern Wales, who tended to cluster around To this day, many of Wales' largest cities, settlements built up around the site of a The relationship between the Norman Lordships capricious. Often, there were long periods of peace and marriages between Norman nobles and Welsh As a result, many prominent Norman marcher Talbots, acquired a heavy quantum of Briton the Kings of Wales fought against the Norman entity, but moreso a dynastic struggle against For indeed, despite frequent alliances forged was still a fact of life on the Welsh frontier. In this, the Normans were among the deadliest Possessed of arguably the best shock cavalry had smashed the armies of Saxon Kings, Italian Roman Emperor. Thus, it is all the more impressive that the of Europe, were able to resist the Norman In the early years of the march, the Welsh equipped Normans in the open field. To compensate for this, the Britons tended Instead, they hid in the rugged hills, using territory before harassing them with guerrilla Norman castles proved another significant lightning raiders, who could plunder and pillage with remarkable efficiency, and retreat back could be mustered to confront them. After all, what use was having a castle to lands around it? After a few decades of on-and-off fighting, warfare, managing to field Norman-style cavalry This cultural transaction went both ways, and it is often argued that the Welsh Bow which in later centuries would decide the battles, like Agincourt and Crecy. In the year 1136, while campaigning in Normandy, As a succession crisis threatened to grip turned the majority of their troops eastwards. With the Norman presence in Wales suddenly across nearly all of the southern occupied By now, King Gruffudd ap Cynan, nearly 80 However, his sons, Owain and Cadwaladr, had Riding south, the two Princes of Gwynedd linked At a place called Crug Mawr, near the Castle strong, met an equally large force of Flemish Lord of Cemais. In the following battle, the Britons utterly over 3,000 men, an astronomical killcount Following this stunning victory, the region early 12th century, was liberated from Norman Ultimately, great Welsh victories like that delaying of the inevitable, as the interminable continue until all of Wales was under English Despite this, it would take another 150 years of Welsh land taken, the Celtic Britons would In our next episode on the history of Medieval of independent Briton Kings, as great warriors Llywelyn the Last will ensure that the flame before being snuffed out for good. If you don't want to miss that episode or are subscribed and have pressed the bell button Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and