They were designed to be the best... they met enemies face to face, endured tragedies and enjoyed victories... they went down in history due to the bravery of their crews... they are the ships that deserve to be called "Naval Legends!" In this episode: the invulnerable Hornet While the Pacific campaign was in full swing, the U.S. Navy started receiving They became the long-awaited reinforcements that helped the Americans crush the Japanese Imperial fleet. One of the most famous ships of this class--CV-12 Hornet inherited her name from another aircraft carrier In April 1942, four months after the attack on Pearl Harbor, Americans prepared a bold and daring operation. Sixteen ground-based B-25 army bombers had been which sailed towards the Japanese islands. That was to let the Japanese know that you bomb our homeland, They literally sent the B-25s off of an aircraft carrier something that had never been done before and it was a one-way mission, they didn't have enough fuel to get back. The Doolittle Raid inspired Americans In September 1942, CV-8 Hornet received serious damage during the Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands and sank. However, its famous name that was under construction The keel was laid in 1942, and a year and a month later, in 1943, the ship was underway a remarkable production in one year! Especially when you realize it was done Twenty-four of these ships were produced during General Performance Capabilities of USS Hornet Total displacement: up to 36,000 tons Length: up to 266 m Beam: 45 m Draft at full load: 9.1 m Armament: Caliber: 20 mm 10 quadruple Mk.2 Bofors guns. Caliber: 40 mm 12 Mk.12 dual-purpose guns. Caliber: 127 mm Armor: Hangar deck: 64 mm The air group consisted of 4 squadrons Hellcat fighters Helldiver divebombers Avenger torpedo bombers Maximum speed: up to 33 knots Cruising range: 15,000 miles So. An aircraft carrier is a heavy attack ship, it's a floating airfield, becomes the main target for enemy attacks. It became clear: to prevail at sea, Accordingly, in addition to every aircraft carrier they were covered by allied ships. For example, USS Hornet had up to 60 guns all anti-aircraft weapons aboard, all of our weapons were devoted to anti-aircraft. The single barrel guns could put between six and ten rounds of explosive anti-aircraft shells in the air per minute. So you multiply that times 12--that's a lot We could put up a led curtain that kept most of the attacking aircraft away. The closest a kamikaze fighter ever got was cartwheeling over the deck into the water and But even with this colossal number of guns, the main anti-aircraft weapon of an aircraft carrier is its fighter aviation. The striking force of an aircraft carrier consisted of bombers and torpedo bombers, whose range was many times greater than that of the artillery of modern battleships of the time. The very first aircraft carriers built after World War I showed that no matter how powerful booster engines were on planes, the flight deck was too short for them to gain the necessary speed. Then the idea appeared that aircraft should have an additional method for acceleration. They can't do it by themselves; they have to have assistance through the catapult system. This cable, is hooked up underneath the wing, it goes down and wrapped around the front of that shuttle down below. And that shuttle runs in this track up to the front of the ship. There's a hydraulic engine ram way-way down below, At that point the plane is doing about 120-130 knots. It's a rather exciting start. Right after takeoff pilots had exhausting work to do. The tension was growing with every mile of flight, and when they arrived at the target area The pilots were aware of the risks they took when and then as they got back to the ship But they should always remember and dangerous things they are going to do An aircraft has a very high speed when landing. If it attempts to land by itself, it will just That's why the question arose: how do we stop this? This area, and there's four of these on either side of the deck, where the cables would stretch out. And down below decks there is a bunch They know how much the plane weighs that's coming in, so they actually tension the wire for the weight of that plane. As it comes in, they grab the hook, before they get to the end of this angle deck here, which is only another couple hundred feet Once they touch down and stop, they retract the hook, It's often there's only 30 seconds between aircraft landing. Some airplanes were much easier And the particular airplane that I flew, Ship that we are landing on is moving through the water, and we don't always have calm seas So it was necessary to land sometimes at night, maybe we are in rough seas, If the ship has to go faster very often stack gas that comes out of the stacks and it interrupts your smooth flight on board to the ship. There was a peculiarity during World War II: when landing on a deck, pilots had to drop down into the sea. Because the accident rate was high. There wasn't any guidance, They had to do it all by themselves. If the worst happened and an aircraft crash landed, its whole ammunition stock would explode. It's a very precise maneuver to land on these, in a crash or a near-crash. It's a point of pride that we were able to do that This ship went through something before it was decommissioned. It's an around the clock process, around the clock. I lived on board ships like this for a total of 29 months. So I'm intimately familiar with the flight deck The Hornet aircraft carrier was commissioned in 1943. The United States had the advantage but their enemy was still extremely dangerous. A raid by a carrier task force The &quot;queen&quot; is escorted by several dozen ships Crews are at battle stations, scouts are sweeping My favorite room on the Hornet. This is Combat Information Center. In this room, all of the sensors for the Hornet all of the radars, sonar information, electronic warfare information. It's all flowing into this room, and they're figuring out and passed up to the bridge for action. A scouting report comes in: the enemy was detected. 020316SUCHABUZZSHIP That's it. The flag officer gives the order to attack. What does that involve, launching an aircraft It all starts from the top: the speed and direction of the wind. We are now in the aerology office, And there was a crew here 24 hours a day It's a big thing for aircraft carriers [knowing] how fast the wind is. So they constantly monitor that, from just outside this office to keep track of some of the upper The commanding officer of the Task Force &quot;Prepare for takeoff.&quot; The flagship navigator calculates The aircraft carrier turns around, accordingly, And it is basically controlled by two enlisted men. Right here these stations. obviously, this is the wheel, this is the ship's steering wheel. And what's going on is the operator He's getting orders from one of the officers The ships have turned around. Then the work on the flight deck starts. The deck gets cleaned. maybe there's some ice or dew--they get removed too. Then comes the hangar service unit; and at the same time, the oil and lubricants unit and tanks to the upper deck. And all these people, about 2,000 crewmen, Takeoff, everything works, everything flies. It's a very complex procedure. And by 1943 the Americans mastered it. they knew it like the back of their hand. However, not one of the carrier's crew indulged in illusions; everyone understood that experience, might not be enough to protect The last room I want to show you It actually required another combination to get into this room. Now, it sounds exciting. The information that's being printed It's a warship. If the ship got hit, you would take the most important security things. Put them in the bags which are weighted And then you head outside and toss it over into the ocean. And it will all sink, and hopefully The attack on Pearl Harbor showed In accordance with the traditions of Eastern philosophy, Americans learned the lesson that the enemy at their own game. Every day, commanding officers of task forces enormous amounts of resources, of new naval warfare tactics. In general, we are talking about Essex-class carriers, They are attack ships. An operation is carried out, The next operation won't start ammunition, food, and water, We are preparing a new general engagement. When? The day those aircraft The day when the Hornet is ready. Having participated in dozens of battles, Hornet had to pass the final exam. In the face of inevitable defeat, decided to go all-in: battleship Yamato April 7, 1945 became a day to remember for Hornet and seven other U.S. aircraft carriers. Task Force 58 was huge, it consisted Imagine: 227 aircraft of the attack wave taking off. 227 aircraft attacking. Everyone found their positions in their air groups. This whole wave arrived at the target. Orders were coming from ships, from the flagship. The aircraft attacked, they attacked The Japanese couldn't do anything about it. Battleship Yamato was defenseless The strike was delivered, the ship was destroyed, One by one they left their formation, found their aircraft carrier, landed, The destruction of Yamato was the pinnacle of the U.S. Navy's air strike organization. This operation put an end to the Japanese Imperial fleet. Several months later the empire itself fell as well. We were at Hunters Point Naval Shipyard and just finished our sea trials-sea readiness trials and World War II ended. We became the lead ship in Operation Magic Carpet, this is how we got our guys home from over there. We didn't have any way to fly them home, so all naval ships were pressed into service. What they did, is they welded 3,000 bunks the Hornet being the first. It's a 9 day trip from the Pacific theater Uh, we were luxury accommodations. We did have a visitor, some years ago and he told us the story of it. The story was; you got one meal a day; you were either in your bed, or a line to get chow. That was it, that was your routine for 9 days and that was the entire ship's crew as well, But passengers particularly, but they were fairly bored, on the way home. The Hornet's biography She took part in the Battle of the Philippine Sea, the Battle of Leyte Gulf, Today the aircraft carrier and a reminder of the heroic past of the U.S. Navy. She had an enviable record, She fought in 59 battles and was never hit by a bomb, never hit by a torpedo, never hit by a kamikaze during all that time. She was considered one of the luckiest ships in the Navy.