President Obama: Mr. Secretary General; and gentlemen: As I President for the final progress that we've made From the depths of the of our time, we to avoid further global economy to growth. We've taken away terrorist the nonproliferation Iranian nuclear issue We opened relations with Latin America's longest democratically elected to this Assembly. Our assistance is helping care for the sick, power and promote models of than dependence. And we have made like the World Bank and Fund more representative, framework to protect our of climate change. This is important work. It has made a real lives of our people. And it could not have not worked together. And yet, around the globe forces of global us interdependent also the existing We see it in the Around the world, refugees borders in flight from Financial disruptions our workers and entire Across vast swaths of security, basic order We see too many journalists, and quashing the flow of information. Terrorist networks use the minds of our youth, and spurring anger against and Muslims. Powerful nations contest them by international law. This is the paradox that A quarter century after the world is by many more prosperous than societies are filled with unease, and strife. Despite enormous progress, institutions, governing tensions between nations And so I believe that at face a choice. We can choose to press model of cooperation Or we can retreat into a ultimately in conflict, nation and tribe and I want to suggest to you forward, and not backward. I believe that as principles of open governance, of democracy international law that we firmest foundation for in this century. I make this argument ideology, but on facts -- we forget in the immediacy Here's the most important our global economy has billions of men, woman, and children. Over the last 25 years, living in extreme poverty 40 percent of humanity That's unprecedented. And it's not an It means children have don't die in childbirth. Meanwhile, cracking the cure diseases that have The Internet can deliver knowledge to a young girl single hand-held device. In medicine and in in education and experiencing a human beings live on a the revolutions in And as a result, a person to be healthy, to live to opportunity than at any Moreover, the collapse of has allowed more people with the freedom to Despite the real and freedom appears in that the number of world has nearly doubled In remote corners of demanding respect for the matter their gender, or disability, or sexual deny others dignity public reproach. An explosion of social people more ways to has raised people's those of us in power. Indeed, our international successful that we take powers no longer fight of the Cold War lifted Armageddon; that the have been replaced by and India remain on a path I say all this not to we face, or to Rather, I believe that we achievements in order to carry this progress that we do not abandon that have delivered In order to move forward, acknowledge that the integration requires As too often, those globalization have ignored among nations; have appeal of ethnic and left international underfunded, to handle transnational And as these real problems alternative visions of the both in the wealthiest poorest: Religious politics of ethnicity, or nationalism; a crude the far left, but more -- which seeks to restore better, simpler age free We cannot dismiss They are powerful. They reflect many of our citizens. I do not believe those security or prosperity do believe that these at a very basic level, Moreover, I believe that and technology and together with a global global supply chain -- ultimately for those who Today, a nation ringed by imprison itself. So the answer cannot be a of global integration. Instead, we must work benefits of such shared, and that the political, and cultural by integration are This is not the place blueprint, but let me those areas where I do better together. It starts with making the for all people and not While open markets, standards of living around combined with rapid has also weakened the their ability to In advanced economies like undermined, and many have disappeared. Often, those who benefit have used their political the position of workers. In developing countries, often been suppressed, and class has been held and underinvestment. Mercantilist policies with export-driven models consensus that And meanwhile, global unaccountable -- nearly $8 tax havens, a shadow beyond the reach of A world in which one controls as much wealth as will never be stable. I understand that the gaps not new, but just as the see the skyscraper nearby, person with a smartphone privileged among us live between their own lives Expectations rise, then, can deliver, and a injustice undermine So how do we fix We cannot unwind we can stuff technology Nor can we look to failed If we start resorting distorting subsidies, policies, an overreliance instead of innovation -- us poorer, collectively, to lead to conflict. And the stark contrast of the Republic of Korea Korea shows that central, economy is a dead end. But I do believe there's fuels growth and clearest route to and national success. It does not require capitalism that benefits recognizes that economies we close the gap between is broadly based. And that means respecting they can organize into earn a living wage. It means investing in our their education, their an idea and turn it It means strengthening the our people from hardship more risks -- to look for start a new venture. These are the policies the United States, and American businesses have million new jobs. After the recession, Americans were capturing of income growth. But today, that's Last year, poverty in fastest rate in And with further infrastructure and early basic research, I'm progress will continue. So just as I've pursued home, so has the United nations to curb the not to punish wealth, but that can destroy it. That's why we've worked create higher and clearer taxation -- because a oligarchs than ordinary That's why we've pushed cooperation in rooting out illicit dollars, because when they're fueled by not the capacity to That's why we've worked that raise labor standards standards, as we've done Partnership, so that the more broadly shared. And just as we benefit within our countries, I still need to do more to and poor nations This is difficult It's difficult to spend But I do not believe For the small fraction of Iraq we could support fragile states don't place, and invest in that become markets It's not just the right smart thing to do. And that's why we need our efforts to combat If we don't act boldly, due will be mass submerged and nations supplies decimated, and The Paris Agreement gives but only if we scale And there must be a sense the agreement into force, countries leapfrog So, for the wealthiest Fund should only We need to invest in market incentives to and then make these and affordable for And only then can we people up from poverty children to a planet capacity to repair. So we need new models for models that are inclusive And in the same way, we that are inclusive and ordinary people. I recognize not every going to follow the same I do not think that -- impose our system on other countries. But there appears to be authoritarianism and And I want everybody to neutral in that contest. I believe in a liberal order built not just representative government, for human rights and civil judiciaries and I know that some recognize the power of reject the model of And perhaps those of us democracy feel somewhat of the Cold War, because democracy will not just in a single wave. It turns out building is hard work -- the The gains are Sometimes we take one step two steps back. In countries held together colonial powers, with divisions, politics and sometimes appear to be a And so, given the democracy in the face of surprise that some argue strongman, a top-down democratic institutions. But I believe this I believe the road of true the better path. I believe that in the 21st only grow to a certain open up -- because access information in people need a global thrive; independent media the abuses of power. Without this evolution, people will not be met; stagnation will set in. And history shows that with two paths -- sparks strife at home, enemies abroad, which Now, I will admit, my serve the individual, and around, is shaped by Our nation began with a applied only to the few. But because of our because of our Bill of ideals, ordinary people march, and protest, and won out -- opened doors and workers in ways that productive and turned our that gave innovators the area of human endeavor; someone like me to be of the United States. So, yes, my views are experiences of America, story is unique Look at the transformation countries as different Indonesia, Botswana. The countries that have which people feel In Europe, the progress former Soviet bloc that in clear contrast to After all, the people of the streets because of They took to the streets was for sale and They demanded change better for people in the societies that were more and open than their own. So those of us who believe speak out forcefully, history, I believe, That doesn't mean It does mean that the democracies is greater citizens -- not less. Yes, in America, there politics; too much too little participation because of a patchwork of it harder to vote. In Europe, a often became too isolated pull of national politics. Too often, in capitals, forgotten that democracy civic engagement from the by experts from And so these are real of democratic governments democracy abroad, we harder to set a better Moreover, every country government informed by the circumstances of deeply held beliefs So I recognize a value unity and cohesion country like my own, which the time, was a radical liberty of individual certain God-given rights. But that does not mean Asia, or Africa, or the arbitrary rule that denies decisions that can I believe that And if any of you doubt desire, listen to the everywhere who call out and the opportunity to This leads me to the third must reject any forms of or a belief in ethnic traditional identities Instead we need to embrace from respect of It's a truism that global collision of cultures; Internet, all these things our most cherished We see liberal societies women choose to We see protests responding cartoons that caricature In a world that left the see Russia attempting to glory through force. Asian powers debate And in Europe and the people wrestle with and changing demographics, somehow people who look the character of Now, there's no easy these social forces, meaning that people draw -- from their religion, their sense of nationhood. But I do not believe our desire to preserve our impulse to dehumanize or If our religion leads us another faith, if we jail gay, if our traditions from going to school, if basis of race or tribe fragile bonds of The world is too small, we for us to be able to ways of thinking. We see this mindset in too There, so much of the fueled because leaders because of policies or to persecuting political other religious sects, by to the mosque, where perversions of a great These forces built up for helping to fuel both and the mindless, The mindset of extremism, and retribution that has been be quickly reversed. And if we are honest, external power is going to religious communities or to co-exist for long. But I do believe we have nature of these conflicts, community must continue to seek to build rather And there is a military It means being united and networks like ISIL, which for human life. But it also means that in there's no ultimate won, we're going to have diplomacy that aims to deliver aid to those in who pursue a political those who are not like dignity and respect. Across the region's insist that all parties humanity and that nations that fuel disorder. Because until basic about how communities extremism will continue beings will suffer -- most but extremism will be exported overseas. And the world is too small to build a wall and our own societies. And what is true in the true for all of us. Surely, religious and upheld while teaching and math, rather than Surely, we can sustain our giving women their full in the politics and Surely, we can rally our while recognizing equal communities -- whether in Myanmar, or an ethnic racial minority right here And surely, Israelis and better off if Palestinians recognize the legitimacy recognizes that it cannot settle Palestinian land. We all have to do better down, rather than identity that leads And this leads me to the need to do, and that is international cooperation responsibilities As President of the United most of human history, The end of the Cold War forget this truth. I've noticed as President America's adversaries and that all problems Washington or could be and perhaps too many in that as well. (laughter) But I believe America has human history insofar as think beyond narrow we've made our share of 25 years -- and I've have strived, sometimes at better our actions And as a consequence, I force for good. We have secured allies. We've acted to protect We supported human rights our own actions. We've bound our power to and institutions. When we've made mistakes, acknowledge them. We have worked to roll and disease beyond our within our borders. I'm proud of that. But I also know that we And I believe that challenges of this to have to do more to international capacity. We cannot escape the unless we all commit to nuclear weapons and When Iran agrees to accept program that enhances enhances Iran's ability to On the other hand, when that endangers all of us. And any country that must face consequences. And those nations with United States, have a pursue the path of and reaffirming basic to never test them again. We can't combat a disease no borders -- mosquitos unless we make permanent brought to bear against our own systems of public cures and rolling back the and helping poorer health infrastructure. We can only eliminate sustainable development more than words on paper. Human ingenuity now gives the hungry and give all of our girls -- the education opportunity in our world. But we have to put our And we can only realize institution's founding -- war with cooperation -- if own accept constraints. Sometimes I'm criticized professing a belief in multilateral institutions. But I am convinced that in some freedom of action -- to protect ourselves or but binding ourselves to over the long term -- And I think that's If Russia continues to of its neighbors, it may fuel nationalist fervor it is also going to and make its borders In the South China Sea, disputes offered by law stability than the few rocks and reefs. We are all stakeholders in and it calls upon all success of institutions And the good news is, is shown what kind of we make those commitments. Consider what we've over the past few years. Together, we mobilized troops for U.N. peacekeeping, making them better prepared to Together, we established Partnership so that, empowers more and more And together, now, we have more to help refugees who We should all welcome assistance that have been Assembly gathering. I'll be discussing that But we have to follow politics are hard. Because in the eyes of children who, through no had to flee everything that they love, we have to to see ourselves. We have to imagine what family, for our children, happened to us. And we should all ultimately, our world will prepared to help those in are carrying the largest to accommodating There are a lot of nations doing the right thing. But many nations -- with wealth and the that can do more to offer insist that refugees who to do more to adapt to the the communities that are Let me conclude by saying tells a different story talked about here today. There's a much darker history that we can adopt. Human beings are too often greed and by power. Big countries for most smaller ones around. Tribes and ethnic groups very often found it most themselves by what they those ideas that bind Time and again, human they finally arrived at a only to repeat, then, and suffering. Perhaps that's our fate. We have to remember that human beings led to But we also have to of individual human beings so that a war like that Each of us as leaders, reject those who appeal embrace those who For we have shown that a better history. Sitting in a prison cell, King, Jr. wrote that, rolls on the wheels of through the tireless be co-workers with God.&quot; And during the course of traveled to many of your spirit in our young educated and more inclusive and more than our generation; who compassionate towards than previous generations. And, yes, some of that idealism of youth. But it also comes with information about other understanding unique in future is bound with the beings on the other I think of the thousands from around the world to fight Ebola. I remember the young are now starting new parliamentarians who used ago political prisoners I think of the girls who violence just to go to the university students online to reject the organizations like ISIL. I draw strength from entrepreneurs, activists, who are remaking our unconstrained by conventions, and but are instead ready to My own family is a made up traditions and cultures different parts of the has been built by And in my own life in this country, and as President, I have learned have to be defined by but can be enhanced by They don't have to be others, but rather by a equality and justice And the embrace of these doesn't weaken my particular love for My belief that these doesn't lessen my who look like me, or allegiance to my flag. But my faith in those to expand my moral recognize that I can best best look after my own that my actions seek what and all children, and your This is what I believe: co-workers with God. And our leadership, and United Nations should irreducible truth. Thank you very much. (applause)