- All right, I'm about to in a fully autonomous vehicle. Whoa, no driver. All right. - [Electronic Voice] Good morning, Derek. This car is all yours - I really like the idea of but it's weird getting and just trusting the car. I'm gonna report back how this ride goes and how I feel about it. Oh, but full disclosure, this (car door clicking) (seatbelt clicking) Start ride. Ha ha! - [Electronic Voice] Make sure (Derek vocalizes) press the Help button to speak - Okay. Now let's see where we go. It's looking at this car coming Oh, and it pulls in No problems. Did not turn into traffic. Waited until the cars I like that. I polled YouTube viewers and half of you are excited and ready for them to be on the roads, but over 40% said you was still over 10 years away. And for those people, I have news, which is that, well, there I'm currently inside a fully around a suburb of Phoenix, Arizona. Now I get that in some parts of the world, like, the roads aren't and people don't stay in and so it'd be very hard for but at least under good conditions, the technology is currently functional. (downtempo music) (bright comedic music) - Now Waymo started out as the Google self-driving car project with what is possibly one of I am inside the world's first Back in October 2015, this ridden by Steve Mann, who has a disability, he is legally blind, but he could get around in this thing, which is affectionately This is such a simple vehicle. There's basically nothing in here. There's no steering wheel, no dashboard. This car is super basic. There is no AC, but there (button cover clicks) That's my favorite button in the car. It reminds me of elevators. One of the important in automatic elevators Did you know that before the 1940s, almost all elevators had drivers in them? And when people started putting well, the public was very concerned, and they didn't wanna There was one guy who was like, &quot;I don't care if I have to for the rest of my life. I'm not taking that elevator.&quot; And adoption was slow. I mean, they tried to advertise to help people understand but, ultimately, there was in New York City, and that and it helped the adoption If you found a driver you would wonder, &quot;Why are they there?&quot; Now you might think an I mean, it is effectively but airplanes are also flown (tense percussive music) I saw this particular landing where a plane is coming in into Vienna, and it's just so foggy that the pilots can see almost nothing. I mean, this is the view from the cockpit, and yet, they make a perfect, a textbook landing right on target. So how do they do it? The answer is the pilots didn't do it. It was a CAT II autoland procedure. The plane just came in and Now, of course, the pilots are important and they're monitoring all of but it's actually the plane and its computer getting the I was surprised to learn that to take manual control like July 6th, 2013, when was on final approach to San Francisco. Attempting to manually land the plane, the pilot accidentally and by the time they realized and tried to abort the The plane crashed into the Three people died in the I think the counterintuitive thing is that we expect the humans to be better, particularly in tough situations, but when it comes to you actually want the plane flying itself. So the obvious next question is, would you want the same thing for cars? (oscillating music) There are all these and everything up to four to be responsible and have In the early days of the Google they had a vehicle that so it still required a human driver. They let Google employees borrow the cars, but they still had to be And the volunteers were informed that they were responsible and that they would be like video recorded, while But still, within a short period of time, the engineers observed in their bags or checking or even sleeping in the driver's seat. All these drivers were trusting which makes almost fully potentially more dangerous I mean, if the driver is distracted or not prepared to take over. So this is why Waymo decided that the only safe way that has at least level four autonomy. This is the depot where the cars go when they're not on the road. And it's also where people monitor all the rides in progress. - Yes, so that's where my team sits. You see three teams basically here. One of the teams is my so basically making sure that all the mission and they are completed And then you have the Rider Support team that takes the calls. (electronic tone chiming) - [Beulah] Thank you for This is Beulah, how can I help today? - I just completed my ride, but I don't wanna get out of the car. I just wanna keep driving. Is there a way that I can do that? - [Beulah] Right now, I Give me one moment here while - Okay. (chuckling) Well, I just I hope it comes back. (car humming) - I think there's a lot in terms of trusting the vehicle. And they ask you like, &quot;How does it feel to be in I was the first person to do public roads, fully driverless ride at night. I always share the experience with them. It takes about two minutes that you are in a driverless vehicle. If the system really provides and you see a couple of maneuvers, in less than two minutes, you're talking to whoever is next to you and not paying attention to - Whoa, all right, it doesn't so I just don't know but if I was watching I think we have this bias to believe that we're better at certain like thinking that people Surveys show 74% of people believe they are above average drivers. Think about that. In the 20th century, 60 million people were killed on the road. That's basically an extra And we really have no one The National Transportation has identified human error as Most of these errors are Every year when people are backing out of driveways or parking spaces, in the U.S, up to 200 people are killed, and it's frequently the children of the drivers. It's awful. And it comes down to the fact that we don't have eyes and even the backup cameras But if you have a vehicle that has LiDAR and radar and 29 cameras, you're just not going to hit them. Up here in the very prominent So it can see all around the car. It can see up to 300 The way the LiDAR works is it shoots out invisible laser beams, scanning around millions and then it detects the reflection, and how long it takes to determine how far it is to that object. So what it's doing is of the world. There are 29 cameras around this vehicle, which gives you full 360 vision. It gives you close range vision, what is right next to the car, and also long range vision, This car could detect a stop sign or a pedestrian 500 meters away. How many of us have There is also a microphone up on top to listen to what's and if there are sirens, then the car will pull over It's gotta be able to respond (light percussive music) What I wanna see here is, how where there's people and possibly pedestrians walking around? (car humming) (tires squeak) That was a sudden stop. The car made a pretty hard stop there. I think it saw that guy on a pedestrian crosswalk. And one of the interesting things that the vehicle is always doing is not only seeing where things are and where they're going, about where they're likely to go. So this car doesn't just It's constantly imagining, &quot;Well, he might cross at the crosswalk,&quot; or, &quot;He might keep going,&quot; and so it has to be prepared for all of those different options. And it even weights the options that he's gonna go on the crosswalk versus go straight versus turn. And you can see that with in the little simulated (seatbelt clicking) A few years back, I think a about how autonomous who to hit in case of an accident, like do the pick the orphan or the nun? Should the car hit the because his injuries might be less severe or should the car hit the motorcyclist who does not have a helmet on because he did not If cars were programmed to hit the motorcyclist with the helmet, that would mean that, in a way, it would become safer to (whimsical music) But the reality is that 99% Every year, around 1.3 on the roads, almost all If autonomous cars can then the real moral dilemma is not getting them on the road sooner for fear we haven't worked to extremely unlikely I think humans are becoming worse drivers because we're just so (light contemplative music) Think about the main because people are speeding, they're under the influence, I mean, these sorts of problems, an autonomous vehicle would not have. You don't get a distracted driver. The ultimate question, right, that I want to know the answer to is, as these vehicles stand, are they better than the average human? Not than the best human, but Like replacing some with one of these vehicles, - Yes, it does. I think we would never if we did not meet that - If that's true, it that's not on the road is do you know what I mean? really hard to launch this in larger areas and new areas too, but we to show the regulators and, for that, you need a number of miles that statistically speaking. - These vehicles have way more experience than any human driver because over 20 million miles of If you were an average driver, you'd have to drive for a thousand years to accumulate that sort of experience. And all of that experience can be used to train the systems, to fix the software, and used across all the In 2019, Waymo released over 6.1 million miles in the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area. Of the 18 total accidents that none were serious enough to expect significant injury or death. In Waymo's Safety Report, they found some types of accidents have been completely eliminated by this autonomous driving system, like the car doesn't go off the road and it doesn't hit stationary objects. Humans, humans do those things. If you look at the eight that happened with Waymo vehicles over the six million miles of driving, all eight of them involve a human driver of another vehicle doing something stupid, like driving on the wrong side of the road or running a red light or going through a stop or going 20 miles per There were three incidents and pedestrians, but in all three, the Waymo vehicle was or cyclist/skateboarder Waymo also takes some and they put it into simulations So they try adding like or going slow, or they make So they change all these and they see what the software will do. And they've trained the software on an additional 20 not on the road but in the simulation, so that's a thousand times The question for me is, when is stepping inside an autonomous car gonna feel the same as Because I think that than you think. I like the idea of this technology, but, honestly, getting in the car, I wasn't quite sure how I would feel. I was a little bit uncertain, but once I saw it just Like driving is one of those things that I feel like you can't hide whether you're a good or bad driver. It's just like, &quot;Oh, what's gonna happen when there's a parked car or and it just sort of handles with such confidence and ease that I think I stopped thinking about it. - After they pass a couple you're like, &quot;I'm good.&quot; I think, again, &quot;I'll - Yeah, yeah, I felt the same way. I think a lot of people of what is achievable once fully autonomous Riders with disabilities, seniors, and the blind can get around more easily. Transportation will get cheaper. Think of all the wasted value in the cars that spend over 95% of their time parked. We can regain a bunch because commuting and being We can reduce traffic because vehicles will have You can imagine one day when all the cars are fully autonomous, they can execute a beautiful and when that time comes, we and add green spaces to our cities. And, most importantly, widespread adoption of autonomous cars could prevent tens of in the U.S. alone. When do you think that but clearly it's coming, but when? If you're talking about big cities, I'm hoping the next five years - [Derek] I'm excited to see it. - Me too, believe me. Believe me. I just don't want to I would love to sit in the backseat, do my work on the way there and - [Derek] Or do something - Or sleep, yeah. (chuckling) (futuristic tones beeping) (frequency tone whistling)