The Nintendo 64. This console holds It wasn't my first game console as a kid, the most time with. Unfortunately, as it's gotten older, At almost 30 years old, it's got an antiquated video connector a Jumbo sized power brick I can hear humming that was controversially shaped So today, I would like to create And in order to do it, we are going to and we're going to experiment that I have never done before. So without further ado, let's get into it. The inside of the Nintendo 64 with all sorts of odd design choices. I have to imagine when they're cracking open But some things are delightfully a special driver in order to open it The first oddity We're definitely going Similarly, there's a ton of wasted space should be designed to occupy Once I had it stripped down it was time to scrub away several decades of dirt, grime Isopropyl alcohol was great for this. Then it was time But it's not really a modern one. This is one of the original N64 Well, modify this a bit later, but because you can't play every N64 title Finally, it was time to strip away Will be completely replacing So I decided to desolder the power connector And the same thing applies Both of these would have been a lot easier rework station, but I did manage to get it So the next thing that I want to do Nintendo 64, because at this point or monitor anywhere in my house So we are going to install 64 that allows it to output via HDMI. This right here is known as an HDMI mod and they're actually sold The problem is they're usually really expensive and they're also really hard But I went on Ali express that sells for 50 bucks Does it perform Well, And here's the crazy thing. Most manufacturers of these boards That's right. Many of them are sold only through authorized installers in order to capture the video signal We have to steal the video signal and that means soldering this ribbon cable But don't worry, it's I use some capton tape cleaned up the contacts with some flux, This is a technique where you apply and then drag it over the contacts The nice thing about solder so generally it's going to go The main thing that you have to watch out for is accidentally applying Pins. Take your time. Less is more and you can always remove It should look a little Next I stole power for the HDMI mod regulator and soldered this last leg And that's it. We should now be able Let's move on to upgrading the cooling. The original heatsinks for the N64 so I bought these perfectly sized that will fit directly on top of the main They're much more thermally conductive that should make them much more effective I also attach them thermal pads on the market, over the almost 30 year old ones Oh, and then later once I found some copper heatsinks So would you look at that? We actually managed to get it done and honestly, I mean, it wasn't easy, mind you. However, with a little bit of practice, And that's key there. Practice. I did actually practice before I did this. This is a micro soldering practice board. It's basically just a PCB. It comes with some microchips and you can It was a really good chance for me and work on things So well worth it. I'll include some links for this as well I've used throughout this project Now that we figured out how we're going to get video let's talk about If I want to power this system with the most ubiquitous power connector And thanks to the new Usb-C power and cable like this should supply more But just because it's simple and clean because the Nintendo 64 needs a couple So let's talk about This first board is a USB power and it communicates with a power brick By setting these dip switches, one of the operating voltages for the N64 I then ordered a bunch of leads Most of these will go directly to the second Auxiliary board We can configure this module which is the other voltage that we need. From there, all I had to do was solder to the original power delivery terminals And can we just take a second small these new boards It's crazy As a final step, and test Would you look at that. It actually works. Or, I mean, at least I think it works. We'll really know until we get it hooked up to a video display So now that we've got the electronics the next thing that I want to do And in order to do that, we are going to This is the ultra craft reflex from HeyGears, Now there are a whole host of reasons is superior to FDM style 3D printing But the one that I am the most excited transparent plastic so we can embrace that old retro style of a clear plastic case. Like I said at the start of this video, never worked with before, and I'm excited But I figured if it's something new, So down here you can see a little preview And it's actually a new cartridge The first thing that you have to know printing is that it's a lot more involved But HeyGears has created a completely streamlined and as user friendly For example, there printers will automatically detect how much resin is in the build tank, during the print if necessary. You see, resin 3D printers work sensitive resin one layer at a time, and your model slowly It's a really cool process. This particular printer so it's capable and their BluePrint Slicer Not only did it identify potential problem areas in my models but it also controls all three machines You're going to have to wash it This is just a big tub alcohol that dissolves Uncured resin But HeyGears design this ingenious where you never have to reach You can just drain the alcohol and then pick up Next comes removing the supports. And this was actually pretty tricky at times at the end of the video during the post mortem I could have made this when the supports do satisfying to peel them away The quality and detail of these resin nothing that I have ever seen The last step was just putting the parts Here they're exposed to both heat cure the resin. Again, this is all controlled Depending on the size and shape of your in the perfect settings With the first couple of parts done, I loaded up my next set of models, a seriously cool piece of hardware This right here is an ever drive 64 this is every single Nintendo Or at least it can be. So if you look right here, And what you can do is load up a bunch Put it in here. This is from the Nintendo 64 cartridges. So my plan is to take and then just do exactly that. That way How modern is that? And then also is that it has a built in NES Emulator Unfortunately, is hidden away Except for us, that is. Oh, look at that black and gold PCB that is going to look so cool Stuff like this is why I was so excited Nintendo 64. There are just so many cool details that often get covered up But I'm sure many of you at home looks significantly less clear than it did And don't worry, we will be fixing that. But first, over the course of the next few days, I still had to print And I've got to say, after working I get why people love resin Not only do these parts feel way do the fact that they're printed at 100% is something that has to be seen in order It's bordering on the same quality And when you can get that level of quality all wrapped in a user friendly package, how the ultra craft reflex system could become the production whether it's selling prints on Etsy or just making your own custom closely But obviously So let's talk about post processing that crystal clear look to this resin. The first step is wet sanding. Over the shop, I laid out a series to 2000 grit, This is really a case of you get out of it The more time you spend sanding and polishing your parts, So where you stop is kind of up to you. After that, with more isopropyl alcohol and already was looking a lot more clear, So I dried off the parts, and then sprayed on several thin coats Not only will this finish, fill on the surface of the plastic, but it will also provide and help them to maintain their clear Once the acrylic dried, and they were pretty fantastic. Oh man, look it out. Cool. Some of these parts look. I mean, my spray but it's not bad. And it's definitely a lot clearer than it was Finally, it was time to assemble so hard to create, Thanks to my design. The front panel magnetically attaches, six pairs of magnets into both the top Installing them as pairs like this ensures that I won't accidentally mix up The glue needed a second to set. So I busy myself over here And then I installed six brass standoffs I undersized all these holes ever so they're actually cutting their own These standoffs create just enough clearance under the main and the power delivery boards And this seems like a good time to mention this project at home, I'm going to make all these 3D print files I'll put a link down in the video And of course, so that I could just screw down and secure the motherboard. The top and the bottom. Simply pressure fit and click together a bit of glue to these magnet hole and Not bad looking, but I wasn't done yet. You see, I hear that Nintendo doesn't So I decided to create my own custom and I was looking at the Nintendo 64 logo If you just kind of turn it 90 degrees, So I think we can exploit that. A simple rotation wasn't quite enough so I also applied a subtle perspective a bit better. Then obviously I had to replace the word that is similar. But Nintendo's lawyer should note And then, of course, there's referred to the number of vertices There we go. We now have our custom Zack build 64 logo, and the next thing we need to do However, I do have a friend who has one, so think Turns out it's way easier to make vinyl All you need is printable vinyl, And if you've never seen a Cricut before, It's basically like someone replaced with a small knife. It can quickly and easily cut out custom shapes Once it was done, and carefully attached it Now that we're done with that, I have one last little cherry In my mind, modern consoles from their old retro And if I didn't include it well then I don't think I could That's right. I'm talking about wireless controllers. This is a brawler 64, without being tethered in place And it also redesigns the controller, like I said before, hasn't aged So it's a box it feels Okay... So that's interesting. I'll show you what that is in second Okay. Well, that actually feels quite a bit at first glance. Right off the bat you have two Z buttons In terms of layout, it's actually really The buttons feel very clicky Well, The shoulder buttons are a tiny bit mushy, feels really good. I like that. Not bad for a third party You probably wouldn't So this module just plugs right in here. If you look here, you'll see that We won't actually need that. I don't think I covered this earlier, has save functionality So I wont ever have the need But obviously they've made this for normal Nintendo 64s, include that. Now that we got all of those little things that I've been wanting to do for a long Test this thing. Opps, almost forgot this... You guys see how easy that was? It's just two cables in this nearly 20 year old system So when you first boot up This page here has a bunch of settings Here you have Gameboy, Gameboy and then if you come back to this page, you have all of your games here, Like I said earlier, theoretically you could have However, I've just stuck to because I'm trying to keep things legit from this YouTube video So the Nintendo 64 and then my TV is upscaling that to 4K That's why Okay, so let's boot up a game Obviously. Mario, 64. Oh, and you can also do cheats like changing But yeah, let's start the game. Oh, I forgot about So right away you notice that the image is just way crisper And another nice thing here is I played Nintendo 64s with HDMI converters and they often end up But that is not the case here. Everything is looking really good aliexpress HDMI You are missing out on a few features resolution. This one is locked at 720p, but practically speaking, that's the resolution The more expensive boards and this board also gives you the ability and your colors. Though I don't think I would ever do that gross the input latency I think it's running a custom So that makes sense. I mean, just trying to do the classic When I was running it on the emulator and had a hard time with that But this feels just like it used to. And the really precise You can really control Mario's speed. Really precisely. This is a good replica controller and I'm sure some people at home and ya I can feel So what do you say we bust out the thermal camera Now look at that. So it's been on for about an hour now. We're getting into the 60 degree mark But if you look closely, cooler than that. Yeah, It's like purely warm to the touch. So this is really everything that I ever Nintendo 64, which I'm realizing But just because it's everything I wanted doesn't mean that I couldn't So let's talk postmortem analysis. One thing I definitely could have improved printed parts I've never worked and I didn't really base my models In the future, I would avoid and also I probably would have oriented my models so that the supports and then they would have been easier I also think it would have been cool a little bit of active It's not really necessary, might add some additional longevity And then finally, but since I don't really need I could have just disassembled this and the controller ports. I mean, how cool would this thing with four wireless controllers I think that would have looked So that's it for this video. And you might want to get subscribe where I make my own DIY air quality meter. Or maybe it'll be my DIY Either way, get subscribe