Welcome to another Mathologer video. It's you will be aware of but pretty much fresh maths, made up just for you. Every my own little theorems and proofs. What I want to show you today are some irrationality of some small integer cool and closely related mathematical usually refer to as triangular squares. Well, it's definitely not clickbait. Okay equilateral triangles that are made up one over there. Why triangular squares? always a square, namely the total width this case the width of the big triangle are exactly 5 squared equals 25 of these really nice animated proof that this is Here we go. Okay, yeah and it's getting This is an incredibly beautiful proof something really, really really wrong switch to a non maths channel. Also some more beautiful stuff, too good to before we go all irrational. square are consecutive odd numbers. So three orange in the second layer, then 5, 5 plus 7 plus 9, the sum of the Doing the same for general triangular of the first N odd numbers is N squared. for what follows you only need to width N contains N squared triangular squares to prove that the is, that the number root 3 cannot be integers. To prove this let's assume that 3 as such a fraction. Okay and let's possible. Then squaring both sides and simplifying gives this here. Okay but squared. That's the same as saying that B equals A squared. So what does this mean? This means that if root 3 was rational, then the equation X squared squared would have positive integer squared plus B squared equals A squared this would also mean that combined the B would contain exactly the same number grid of width A on the right. And this triangles on the left would fit exactly here's a super stylish way to begin an Pretty :) Anyway this attempt results in an empty triangle patch in the middle. be triangular squares, right? However triangles, the three dark green overlap white triangular grid. But that's supposedly started with the absolutely sum of three other squares, that one up smaller than the smallest one. times already in the last couple of videos so you should be okay with that. Now the only way to resolve this contradiction started with, namely that root 3 is a In other words, root 3 is irrational, plus X squared plus X squared equals Y integers. How slick is that? :) Now, using we can also show that root 2, root 5 and let me hammer the crux of our proof by root 3 being a fraction is equivalent to squares adding to another triangular hinges on us showing that if this was squares, then the same would be possible So, now let's see how to prove that root 2 is equivalent to there being TWO another triangular square, like that. And simply have to show that this equality smaller triangular squares. And here's triangular squares.Llet's chase them down. pretty, pretty, pretty, pretty, very nice. At be exactly as large as the white empty would fill some of the empty area and triangular squares adding to another the contradiction and proves that root Here's a little puzzle for you. We have Have another look at this picture here. at a contradiction, that is, can you see add to one large triangular square. It's you can see it, too. Let me now show you choreographies followed by some pentagons. First root 6 with 6 triangular square. Here we go. (Music playing) Beautiful you must agree. Two When using the root 5 and root 6 of these numbers one actually also has overlaps in the animations always exist I leave filling in the details as choreographies are particularly tricky root 5 choreography it's not even clear filling in the details as a puzzle, or description of the video. Longtime early days of the channel I did a video using the simple square choreography. In mathematician Stanley Tennenbaum and that started this whole line of idea was authored by Stephen Miller and triangle and the root 5 pentagon triangular square root 2, 5 and 6 squares to illustrate things. Anyway, all really, really beautiful mathematics, such impossible equations; 2) best rational roots; and 3) a really nice paradoxical finish things off. Well let's go. Remember, also proved that the equation X squared squared has no positive integer green triangular squares together and illustrate the proof actually cannot In fact I chose the numbers on the left differing by just 1, And so 15 and 26 nearest miss solution to the equation X equals Y squared, the next best thing to this means that 26 over 15 is an sort of the root 3 counterpart of PI's When we run our choreography, we start after our triangles finish their dance formation. Even better the new triangular miss solution, that one down there. Let's propeller. Okay, there, yet another solution one, there. Now clearly something and I'll leave it as yet another puzzle can't go on forever in one direction, choreography in reverse. Here we go. So even larger. Now we're back to where we just keep on going, right? Okay and now we are one step up. It's hard to show that this new propeller this. Okay, so the numbers pan out like really true. In fact, it's not too hard to always get nearest miss solutions and in to our equation in this way. Anyway nearest miss solutions. Okay now if we take the ratios from top to bottom this will give better and better approximations of So 2 over 1, 7 over 4, 26 over 15 and there correct. In fact the sequence of these fractions converges to root 3, so if we combine these ratios into one large picture, in root 3, IS root 3. So this is root 3 have pretty, right? And as you've probably about root 3 can also be shown to work choreographies. Now just for fun, here's a original Tenenbaum choreography. Also more footnotes that I really should add: solution; 2) about irrationality of integer interesting connections with infinite interested I'll put some footnotes in But for the finale of this video let me reality to which our triangle a very paradoxical puzzle for you that this. I call this a triangular triangle. except for me, but who's going to stop me, Figure out the motivation behind this number of hexagons in a triangular triangular number (hint :) T_n. So T_1 is plus 2 plus 3 equals 6, and so on. And so the sum of the first n positive integers to n times n plus 1 over 2 so for this triangular triangle is equal to 15. triangular numbers also feature prominently in number theory and a lot of famous mathematicians have proved theorems of the most famous entries in Gauss's positive integer is the sum of at most that Gauss was really excited about a look at the Eureka in really bold Now important for us is the related unlike squares, there are instances where another triangular number. Here's an equal to T_35. Let's unleash our root see what happens. So, obviously, this propellor corresponds also works, this one here. T_5 plus T_5 we can run the choreography forwards and three identical triangular numbers here's my main puzzle for you. Forget one, this is it: the smaller equation doesn't this prove, just as in the case identical triangular numbers cannot add That's a tricky one, let's see whether it for today.