So there are three things I want to know. First, how far towing its maxed out capacity of 11,000 The second thing is, how And how If you remember, all four of these tires can turn, so you have a tighter turning radius. And the front It should be a very interesting experience. The Cybertruck isn't mine. It's on loan from a very brave real owner, but I performed this very same test with my own Rivian and we got exactly 100 miles with off-road tires. I also towed this same homemade electric Humvee with a Ford Lightning and got about 130 miles with street tires in the summer, both of which probably gave it a slight advantage. And today we have a dual motor all-wheel drive Cybertruck with off-road tires, which gives us an estimated range of 318 miles with the full battery at 100%, which I did charge it up last night. It has been sitting for a few hours in my garage this morning, plugged in but not charging. Let me know what your estimates for this cold weather range test are down in the comments, and at the end of the video we'll see who's closest. I've been daily driving trucks for about 20 years now, Should be able to crawl right up this thing. Easy. Sick. That's not going anywhere. This setup looks sweet. Keep in mind that while this is a very fun test, it's not all fun and games. Even though we aren't towing a trailer that's heavier There are a lot of strange laws of physics so we're making sure we're balancing the load on the trailer, making sure there's not too much load on the tongue of the truck. And of course since I'm not the only person on the road, which is The thing that stood out to me when I got into the Cybertruck for the very first time were how heavy the doors were. Turns out that while having the Cybertruck actually Tesla has accomplished some pretty mind blowing things. Looks like we have lost putting the trailer on in the cold weather. We're already at 308 miles. And that should recalculate very quick once it realizes how much weight is attached to the hitch. The Cybertruck also has trailer brake gain, So the trailer will actually do some braking and slow down the vehicle, which is an absolute requirement when the trailer weighs more than the truck does. Before we leave though, I'm going to go here into drive. And if I want to turn left, I just crank the wheel like halfway and I'm all the way left or all the way right. And it's so strong that you can shake the It took a whole lot of getting used to when I first started driving, Oh, so crazy. Let's get going. So we've gone a total of 4 miles So that's about on what I would expect. I'm surprised it hasn't because both the Lightning and the Rivian it's like weighing the trailer But the power is definitely This thing tows like a champ. One way you can tell that this isn't totally there's just a car behind us. There's It's just a car just riding our It's super weird. My Humvee does not look like that. Just like my two other towing trips during this ride, we're going to stay at right around 65, 70 miles an hour. One because that's a normal And we're keeping this as safe as possible. First impressions I can feel So I guess the steer But when you're on the freeway, the steer by wire isn't as drastic as it is when when you're driving like below 30 miles an hour. So there's not... I can turn have only just a tiny bit of The front windshield is massive, but both the A and B pillars are pretty large But that's kind of how it has The first place we're going to go is a recycling center with a scale so we can see exactly We have the rear wheels off of the scale. So only thing on the scale right now is the trailer and the Humvee, the EV Humvee. And we have the weight right here at 10,400 which means with the 1,000 pounds of tongue weight we are at 11,000 just slightly over. But all within margin of error of course. With the other two electric vehicles we tried the In three, two, one, go.20, So both the Lightning and the Rivian both have So it's crazy that the Cybertruck, Tri-Motor right, this isn't the beast, Very interesting that all I thought for sure that the Cybertruck would be faster. Now we're going back I've driven electric trucks for quite a while and one thing I noticed while I was driving with Dan all the way up here from LA before we started doing the towing test is that this Cybertruck sounds far different than the other two. We have the electric whine but there's also, there's almost like It only happens when we're accelerating and decelerating. It's like a kind of a deep hum. I don't know if you can hear it or not. I'm not sure what it is but the Cybertruck has a different another thing so the towing graph is super wonky check this out. So right now it thinks, go ahead and swivel around, That's wild. It doesn't have a towing animation It just has a semi truck mounted behind us if you After going 25 miles and towing 11,000 pounds, I What it gives us right now is like the trailer it doesn't really Like even the Model X has a little graph like a power consumption graph up in the top The car The only information it really gives us, The only There's a little line a few pixels wide of the power expenditure and then the regen that turns green if we start slowing down. And don't get me wrong, the regen is really cool because we're taking the slowing down of the trailer, like the weight of it, and putting that energy back into the battery instead of using up our brakes. So it's super efficient, but a two pixel wide line leaves much to be desired. But that's just Cyber Jerry's opinion. What about Rivian Jerry? Rivian Jerry here, indeed we do But also Rivian added a mind-blowing amount of information to their center screen where we can see elevation, individual motor and battery pack temperatures, Rivian has vastly improved the Lightning Jerry here, even the Ford Lightning has power At this point in time, the Tesla Cybertruck appears Back to you Rivian Jerry. I agree Lightning Jerry. Cyber Jerry, what else do you have for us? That was a little weird, but to be fair, Tesla does have all of the data and data screens just like Rivian did. Tesla could do an fix all of these software So I'm not too worried about it right now. But it is interesting seeing how it looks with that subscribe button. Hit It is free and I will keep you So we pulled into a gas station mostly because which is definitely not true because our I bet we arrive there with 10 or 15 percent. And it's the The UI for regular I just wish there was more information like a graph for how much power we're using or a better estimate of how many miles we're going to have left when we finally arrive. Looks like our average energy is about 1,172 We officially have 50% battery left. And one thing that I'm not used to yet, It's hard to say you don't like because it's something that you But the rear view mirror I'm not a huge fan of. One, it feels like plastic. Two, it One interesting thing though is that I can operate The tunnel cover while locking the bed is also for aerodynamics aerodynamics is a huge deal with electric That's There's so many little tweaks done to make this truck there's less drag as we're driving down the road. Like even the windshield wiper, it's not catching air in the horizontal However, with the Hummer on the back, So I'm going to open up the tunnel cover and we'll see if the rear view mirror, what that looks like looking out the back tiny window. And I'm going to say as bad as the rear view mirror on the screen is, it's better than the rear view mirror in real life. If the mirror feels like one of those, what is it, I'm just In the top left, it's saying we have 120 miles of range left, but we'll arrive at the supercharger with 10% battery left, And it's interesting that the navigation is doing a better range calculation than the actual battery percentage up here in the top. So driving through Utah, One, we can stop at the Provo Supercharger here in probably like 10 miles or so, or we're going up to the Draper Supercharger because the navigation So we're trusting it to see if we can get to the Draper Supercharger, which is much faster. I have my doubts though. 95 miles range That percentage is dropping fast though. I'm dropping my speed down to 60 miles an hour though, which is a little bit slower than everyone else on the freeway. But if we're going to make it, Air resistance and rolling resistance are massive. And so the slower we go, Here's what we have to do to make it. 78 miles of range. And then the navigation says we have 23 miles left, but we're going to We have 10 miles left to go and 11% of our battery. 10%. Oh boy. Dropping our speed down to 55 or 50 miles an I wish, I mean the range estimates are so important when This is something that Tesla's really got to get ironed out quick if someone's going to be towing with these trucks. 10% battery, 2% when we arrive, 9.7 miles left to go. This is incredibly stressful. Not to mention there is a massive There's a And going uphill while towing 11,000 pounds, The hill doesn't look that bad from here so I think we're going to be okay. 6.8 miles left. Luckily there's a semi truck in front of us that we're just going to sit back here and enjoy what is it called? The draft? The drift? Drafting. Drafting. We're just going to draft off of this guy. It is nice as we're going down the we get some of our regen Rolling up to the Tesla Super Chargers and Draper, it looks like pretty much all of them are full and none of them have the ability to charge a truck with a trailer attached to it. So we are going to have to drop the trailer. And since the charging we'll have to back it into a stall to plug it in. so right there 2% left and if we come over here so we went a total of 90 miles, 108 kilowatt hours used. Average energy is 1,193 watt hours per mile. I don't know what we were nervous about. If we ended then towed the Cybertruck with the Humvee. Problem solved, maybe. It's interesting that the quad steering remains engaged as we're backing up the trailer or even driving a trailer at all. I almost rear tires from turning just because of the extra but here we are with the quad steering still fully It's basically just more responsive. And the turns happen faster One place Tesla beats everyone else is in their charging network, but luckily they're letting other companies like Ford and We are charging at 215 kilowatts, We're at 20% but in 40 minutes we will be at 80%. Which is more than enough to get us home. One thing that I thought would help the Cybertruck's towing I figured higher voltage would make the power more efficient. Those 800 volts might be better for charging speed and not necessarily for towing efficiency. However, filling up my tank with electricity last night to 100% only cost me 13 bucks, which is nice. So officially Not quite as good as Rivian and not quite as good as the Ford Lightning, but still incredibly fun. It is a bummer that we had to drop the trailer, most people aren't And Tesla is putting pull through chargers in some locations, The Cybertruck was a blast to drive and it is an incredible vehicle. But the more I drive it, I'm still going to put it through some more tests And thanks a ton for watching. I'll see you around. Oh my gosh, Jerry! Holy shit!