For years, millions of people have trusted "...we interrupt this video for a special Did you know that you can make boatloads of is talking about?" Wait a second, hold up! I don't endorse that at all. [new email alert] "You've won! In order to claim your prize, you'll need account number, social security number..." Stop it! Please, don't send all that info to anybody... "This email is to inform you that All Things If you believe this was an error, please click No, no, no! Don't click that button. What's interesting about being a creator that many times our greatest threat is not Rather, it's somebody stealing the trust you, my audience. This is what happened to my friend Justin "I started getting a bunch of replies to Like, Hey, stop scamming me, like screw you, The crazy thing is that Justin had not been But even if he had, what's interesting is Justin. The same can be said for Linus, whose massive "The fireworks started a little after three was renamed to Tesla and started streaming techno King Elon Musk discussing cryptocurrency." Poor Linus, right? No! Linus may have lost out on a small bit of likely hundreds or maybe thousands of people that they thought was legit. Linus probably has insurance to cover his Not so much. The attacker was stealing and exploiting the If we look again at my friend Justin, you "There was like this, oh, you have a shipping or whatever. Obviously a scam. And I had never sent out an email like that." Let's stop there for a moment. Did you realize how easy it is for somebody domain? One of the first things I tell people about address. Is this address legit or is it misspelled? But without the proper authentication, it's email that gives every indication that it I even had that happen to me earlier this emails from the AllThingsSecured.com domain. I don't know who received those emails, some scam just because they trusted the All And while the important thing to consider having tons of people start marking your email "My biggest fear, if I did not figure this the email service providers would tank." Justin, like me and maybe you, has invested communicate directly with his audience and and others start to think that your domain putting it in the spam folder. Thankfully, when it comes to email, the solution I can explain this in a way that pretty much And then once I'm done, I'll share three had told me when I was doing this. Ok, imagine with me for a moment I'm sending arrives at the door of his hypothetical inbox. Now every inbox has a bouncer that decides Does it go straight to spam, does it go to primary inbox? And part of how the bouncer does his job is them. So first things first, I want to make sure This is the SPF, or Sender Policy Framework. When an email is received, the SPF tells the sender of that email is authorized to use So I can't send an email and pretend to record would indicate that I'm not authorized Next, the bouncer checks the message itself. The message I sent is sealed with a signature message wasn't altered in any way during sender. This is DKIM, which stands for Domain Keys email message with my private key. Finally, we have instructions for the bouncer. Let's say that somebody tries to get into a seal that has been tampered with. The bouncer is given a set of rules that tells This is DMARC, which stands for Domain-based This set of rules for your specific domain, that whenever a message from this URL is identified he should allow these emails in but move them getting in altogether. Even if this analogy doesn't make complete I want you to take away - NOT giving instructions process for your email domain, isn't just The main reason that a lot of creators and important authentication is often the same time and why my friend Justin was hesitant. "I was actually very intimidated because and YouTube rabbit hole of the various things it seemed as though everyone was like saying, with these records because it could mean that I've already done a video tutorial showing your own, but the more that I talk to people, email domain, using a DMARC service isn't at this point. I don't know anybody who has the time to an XML format to understand what's going I want to offer three pieces of advice, but proud by sharing with you the DMARC service this video. After setting up my AllThingsSecured.com domain and peace of mind that my messages are being can use my domain to steal the trust I've The authentication boosts my authority with are more likely to be delivered to your primary the entire authentication and delivery process. I can forget all of these confusing acronyms I trust EasyDMARC with my email domain and set up. You can sign up for free at EasyDMARC.com checkout. Now that you're ready to start protecting let me give you three pieces of advice. First, you want to start with SPF and DKIM. These are the two that require input from That could be Google Workspace, Mailchimp, your domain, they will provide you with all in your DNS. Sometimes you don't even realize which services It wasn't until I started monitoring my website hosting service also sends emails those messages, I needed to make sure that record. All of this information has to come from the for "Mailchimp SPF" or "your website My second piece of advice is to give you permission As you get started, you might feel a bit like "I was just super confused. I didn't know what to do to, I don't have just, oh my God, it was so stressful." I get it! I was too. If you're worried you're going to screw of "none", which means that no actions and DKIM records incorrectly. You can monitor your reports through a service correctly and then upgrade your security from For example, I felt pretty confident that I didn't want to take any chances so I started I monitored my DMARC reports every day just were getting quarantined, but none of them Everything was working as it should. So after a couple weeks of testing it out, In the end, this is what you want to get to. To fully secure your email against bad actors, Keeping a none or a quarantine is about as but never locking it closed. Finally, my last piece of advice is to put your team to monitor your reports no less If you send out lots of emails you might want The point here is that you want to know what's One of the things I like about using EasyDMARC email fails the DMARC check so that I can Again, just that peace of mind knowing that email and anybody who receives my messages. Make sense? If not, leave a comment below or watch this step by step. But honestly, the best thing you can do is It's free to start using and it will help records correctly.