Hello, and welcome to Aviation Deep Dive If you develop ideas in isolation, the answers unorthodox. They could even be tinged with a certain genius. Australia has the koala and the kangaroo, if the Asia. Leonardo da Vinci can make a convincing parachute, while working alone in his Florentine But the closest that contemporary aviation that Sweden had found itself isolated from the There had of Poland in September 1939 that led the Phoney War turned into something much real in early 1940, when Nazi Germany first its The Germans would later form an alliance of and so, for the Swedes, it meant their country surrounded by hostile, warring nations. They discreetly helped Finland, with a whole Gladiators, known as F13, flying in the Winter They allowed German troops to pass to the Allies, so Swedish neutrality must looked very, very fragile to prime minister "There is no place in the thoughts of our Hansson said before the war started. And, just in case the Germans were listening, our our fixed determination to keep our amongst others and, during such conflicts, safeguard the existence of our people". In the air, at least, his defence preparations The on imported airframes and engines, but the The Americans placed an embargo in late 1940 exports of defence equipment to anyone other The Germans needed all war. But the Italians seemed quite happy to do This looked positive, at least on paper. While they would sell aircraft to Sweden, what the Just over 70 examples of the Fiat CR.42 flew 30 airframes were lost due to mechanical failures materials used in their construction. A huge thanks to Variable Static Audio for Variable Static Audio is a startup company and assembled headphones. Built with a focus on comfort and repairability, they were kind enough to send a unit over Aside from the very detailed and wide soundstage, that is rampant in consumer technology today. Not only are the headphones assembled using but Ryan - the guy running the company - has to take apart and replace components if you and because all of the parts are 3D printable, said is unlikely, considering how incredibly out a replacement part, or send you the files The zero repairability that big companies so I'm really happy that VSA has sponsored genuinely excellent products, they have customer seen the likes of which before. They sent me a prototype headset of a new apart from some smaller details and cosmetic production model, and they've quickly become And if all that wasn't enough, I recorded microphone, which is incredibly crisp and Head to the link in description or pinned a look at their range of headphones. Now, back to the video Some units operated them in Lulea and Kiruna, cockpits that were ideal in the Mediterranean The and 60 airframes gave loyal service to the when these unreliable aircraft were not This left the Swedes with a choice. They could continue using obsolete aircraft been designed for more temperate climates, armed with the latest Messerschmitt Me 109s their domestic aircraft industry. Unsurprisingly, they chose the latter. Back in 1939, with the war just three days of It would have a Bristol Taurus radial developing 1000 horsepower, four 13.2mm wing-mounted through the propeller and a retractable undercarriage. It also strongly resembled the With deliveries of all engines, including on was ended on the drawing board, and that would eventually become the J22. Sweden's main aircraft builder was Saab, war would have to be built by FFVS, a specially up some of this pressure. Some work had also started on project L13, shape, with its armament in the front and But rear-mounted radial unless they happen to be the Gnome whirled behind the pilot, didn't need a 93 miles an hour. The cooling problems seemed to be impossible L12 and L13 fighter projects and started creating the B18, a twin engined bomber that looked Both the B17 and B18 would use a range of the source of high-quality engines. Domestic producing the Pratt and Whitney R-1830 of these were earmarked for the J22 fighter be enough engines to meet the need of the But there was a realisation that the FFVS-built with economy in mind. It relied on wooden construction to conserve Pratt and Whitney engine would not have been It was rapidly ageing, to minimise weight in order to wring as much cylinders. For all that these were ingenious workarounds, beating fighter. Even if the L12 project had not come to an quickly in Europe and it was clear that the without the limitations of the J22 if the anything Fortunately for the Swedes, discussions had building Daimler Benz aero engines. The DB601 had been looked at, but the responsible for aviation in Nazi Germany, stipulated that the Swedes would have to send ones that they built for themselves. The Swedes gave up, but it later became clear later DB605 might be available instead. This coincided well with developments that In engineers and pilots came to Linkoping to what had happened to the L13 project in the The original design was unusual, but this any At the centre of the design was a pusher propeller, nacelle. The wings were attached to this central nacelle, backwards and housing the landing gear and The third component of the leg in the nose, giving the fighter a tricycle in Europe for years. The new aircraft looked a lot like the lovechild Vampire, albeit about three years early, and fighters in its class. All of the armament could be mounted in the the aircraft to pack a hefty punch. More importantly, it had been decided that impossible to solve. Without the cooling blast of the slipstream, unworkable, so L13 would have an inline engine, also promised the same performance they were Whitney in the J22 - and possibly a bit The DB601 had over 1000 horsepower, but other The for 68,500 Swedish kronor, or about 300,000 on the project and for wind tunnel testing. There are rumours that the Swedes were having building the Messerschmitt Me 109 in the background the cautious approval of an official designation. The project was renumbered as L21 and Perhaps unnerved by what Wanstrom was suggesting, their bases by designing the L23, a much more already being used in air battles across western Although it only exists as design of the North American P-51B and Messerschmitt piston engine almost certainly from Daimler The plans called for it to be armed with an 13.2 mm cannon in the wings. And to give the Swedish officials their due, a much safer bet than what Frid Wanstrom was On October 22, 1941, the L21 And then the Swedes changed their minds, for On and L21 got the go ahead - but still There was wind tunnel testing at the KTH Royal the newly founded National Aeronautical Research then with a half size version. As well as a mass of wind tunnel data, KTH the story of the J21 in a different way when to it In concert with this wind tunnel testing, that the aircraft should have a laminar flow This was an easy fix, but there was now landing gear. This had to be strong enough to take the weight weighing just over 4000 kilogrammes, similar give the propeller the necessary ground clearance, It was like the Lockheed P38, which gives the wing Wind tunnel testing also resulted in changes not engine. By the time the aircraft was ready for its Benz Just over 70 had been delivered to the Swedes the build quality they might have been expecting. Either due to sabotage by the slave of Allied bombing, the engines were flawed, All of the production examples of the aircraft to which thousands of changes had to be made come out of Swedish factories. In fact, it would also serve in the B and bomber. But, for the time being, the imported ones Air intakes and oil coolers were built into L21 idling on the ground. Two fans had to be installed but it remained a problem for the aircraft's the ground crew standing by to keep the aircraft When one schoolboy saw an early version on he asked what it was. He was sarcastically told by a pilot that form of water dispenser. There was one final problem to solve. Conventional fighters are comparatively easy The pilot opens the canopy and down and falls out. In pusher aircraft, the When the aircraft also has a horizontal it meant that even if the engine had stopped, The Swedes considered blowing the propeller mechanism to lever the pilot out of the aircraft, solution to this problem. The Heinkel He248 was an embryonic jet fighter fatal to any pilot who needed to bale out. This made Heinkel experiment with different 'ejection seat device' - and the company them in test situations before Helmut Schenk ejecting from the aircraft using a compressed Around 60 Luftwaffe pilots used variations The Swedes patented a version of the compressed first on a horizontal track and then tested version in a test dummy was catapulted four metres over tail plane. The tests had been a success, but problems that that alternatives were needed. AB Bofors seat from March 1943 with the working Meanwhile, two prototypes were made of L21. One of the prototypes, numbered 21001, was so, on 30 July 1943. It was flown by chief test pilot Claes Smith, to around the world to such varied dignitaries Haile Selassie and Howard Hughes. But everything did not go according to plan The grass airfield at Linkoping was not designed advised by engineers to select full flaps extent. He but stubbornly refused to get airborne before The L21 was carefully disentangled from the before Smith, who had been following the off for using full flaps. He duly tried again and, this time the L21 flight Seconds later, it also had its first crash. Unknown to Smith, or anyone else present at severed the hydraulic lines to the brakes, As it the anti-spin parachute to halt its progress, the sudden jolt caused the gear to collapse to an undignified halt on its belly. Fortunately, the aircraft had only suffered relative ease, although it was decided to where the resident pilots were flying lumbering as B16s. The B16s' greatest achievement was to kill accidents, and to get three shot down by German The aircraft was duly transferred there, albeit In a further on board ship as deck cargo. Flight testing continued, but it was plagued Problems with the control caused such severe buffeting that the canopy gear, forcing Smith to make a hasty landing design. Smith would not be with the project much in hospital, so flying duties passed to Anders Helgstrand would not have much more luck. At the start of March 1944, the gear jammed on the runway and another gear failure Attention shifted to the second test aircraft, service trials with F8 wing on 24 February Since F8 were operating Seversky P-35s having previously flown the Gloster Gladiator, out of a science fiction novel. By now it had received the official designation Swedish, which order had been made back in 1943 for 54 aircraft. They The aircraft could now pack a heavy punch, machine guns in the nose and two 13.2mm machine F8 wing were the following suit, including F9 wing near Gothenburg, in favour of the improved J21A-2, which It soon became clear that the J21 was not While pilots said it was and a particularly tight turning circle, it also heavy on the controls, which would have dangerous, since rear visibility was almost The J21 was not a world-beater, with their new toy. Worse news for the J21 was that the Swedes 50 The Mustang was a more capable fighter than matter how many versions it went through, Known as the J26 in Swedish service, 43 were Stockholm but not before one Messerschmitt flight, further advertising its combat credentials. A second contract was signed for 90 more from US depots in Germany via Bremen to followed, starting in 1948 with the last one taken into Swedish service in March 1950. This steady flow of combat-proven fighters was and only 298 were delivered by the time in November 1948. In the meantime, the J21A-2 was given a different by Bofors instead of Hispano Suiza and with upgrades to its avionics, including an improved It was clear, however, that better as a fighter and a further blow came June 1946 when the Swedes started to acquire aircraft, dubbed the J28. This was equipped with four 20mm Hispano cannon miles an hour, it was a full 140 miles an There were now two that the J21A-3 variant was introduced which attack role. There were 119 of these delivered pylons underneath the main nacelle, under the inner and outer wings as well as and armour to ships and personnel. An extra sight was added so that the J21 could seemed to have found its niche. It was a solid, unspectacular fighter, but a stable, solid enough to deliver its weapons onto It served with a number of wings, including Karlsborg, F7 in Satenas, F12 in Kalmar and A J21 pilot, Borje Fonden, remembered: "I life It was much more difficult than I had imagined. The first up both flying and preparation properly. The I still didn&amp;#39;t get a full hit". There was one, memorable footnote to the J21's On 29 July 1946, a J21 flown by J22, also of F9 wing, during naval gunnery The J21 was hit by the J22 during a pass, rendering it uncontrollable. The J22 pilot parachuted to safety, and Johnasson canopy and ejected, thereby saving his life Both men were rescued by a The J21 completed its journey into retirement postscript, courtesy of de Havilland in the The pusher configuration of the J21 meant with used by the British and Americans. A project to nothing, but the de Havilland Goblin turbojet and slightly less of a design and Four J21-A1s were taken off the production where the Daimler Benz engines were to be The designers and would need to be changed, but in the event, and 50% of the aircraft would be The horizontal tailplane had to be raised central new engine and the necessary air intakes. The wing forward and the canopy was given a What could not be designed away was the Goblin's aircraft no more than 45 minutes in the air, covering a country with a 3000 kilometre coastline. It first flew at Bravalla on 10 March 1947 behaved in some very alarming ways. As the J21 approached its critical Mach number, would start to experience buffeting associated that it would need to be given airbrakes in A complete redesign of the wing was suggested, was already showing vastly superior performance. The new, heavily modified aircraft would enter for in English. It should have been ordered in an was such that on March 24 1947, only 60 wing based at Angelholm. Delivery was begun as a fighter as the J21 had been and was History repeated itself, and the solution as the A21RA or A21RB. The 'A' variant would have would have licence built Swedish versions. They centimetre ground attack rockets under the Paddan is Swedish for 'toad,' and the contained eight, eight millimetre machine Production ceased in January 1951 and the from in 1954. They continued to serve in the training of 1957 and gave way to Vampires, the Saab Tunnan and the A32A Lansen. By then, the J21's original designer, Frid Wanstrom November 11 and 22 1945 and met with of the Messerschmitt P.1101, P.1110, P.1111 on the Messerschmitt Me 262 and the Me 163 Rumour suggests that these plans had been watertight package by a Messerschmitt employee before making their way to Switzerland. Wanstrom's papers also included such subjects speeds,' 'investigations on propellers perhaps results for swept wings'. This haul of information would help inspire swept-wing fighter, which first flew on 1 the Its influence is also evident in the Saab November 1952. There is another interesting addition to the One of the Saab engineer's friends was German had worked for Messerschmitt and who would citizenship. He worked on an unbroken line of classic aircraft Draken, Saab Viggen and Saab 105 trainer, Frid source he met up with in Switzerland may Talk of microfilm and mysterious meetings himself But through his secret activities in design of the J21 may well have had more anyone else in history. There were nearly 300 of his aircraft built of the J21R. Despite this, and despite the aircraft standing jet technology at a crucial moment in Swedish flying condition. One J21A-3 was rebuilt by volunteers to represent Air Force Museum in Linkoping, where there condition. A third J21A-3 can be found at the Soderhamn Its unusual appearance to one side, the J21 aircraft and its performance might not have futuristic looks, but its story is unusually The J21 pioneered the practical use of and the domestic aviation industry the chance And by giving Frid Wanstrom an outlet for agent in aircraft design forever. A huge thanks to my Patrons, on screen now, much for watching this video of Aviation Deep Consider liking and subscribing for more weekly us on Patreon - see you in the skies.