hello everyone This is Tassin Shima. Today I will introduce a dessert using the anglaise custard sauce that I made last time. It's Floating islands but It's a dessert with meringue floating on top of custard sauce.Let have leftover egg whites from the previous three batches , so I'm going to use those three egg whites to whip them.If the bowl is oily, the egg whites won't foam. So wash it thoroughly and dry it. I'm going to use one that has been thoroughly wiped with a dish towel.I'm going to add 3 egg whites and whip it with a whisk today, so it's the same thing when I whip it normally and use a mixer, but if I add sugar from the beginning, it gets heavy. It will stop foaming So, wait until you add the sugar until it becomes foamy like shampoo or soap.I think it's enough to use about 10g of sugar for 1 egg white, so today I'll use 3 eggs. So about 2 tablespoons of 30 grams I'm going to add the sugar halfway through. I 'm going to make a foam. When it becomes fluffy like this , it's 2 tablespoons, so I'm going to add the first cup of sugar. It's starting to become finer foam than before, so I'm going to start the second one. Add sugar until it forms peaks like this I'll whip it up. Then I'll have you prepare a large plate. I think a heat-resistant plate would be a good idea, but today I'm going to heat it up in the microwave. I'll use a large spoon to make it big, but it's whatever size I like. It will expand a little when cooked, so you can feel it. Drop the egg whites as you like while opening the bowl a little.The egg whites will separate a little over time, so I think I'll give them a big stir before I scoop them out, then scoop them out.A little like this. Keep it like this, I think it will heat up in a 600W microwave for about a minute, but I'll keep an eye on it as I put it in. After about 40 seconds, it's expanded a little, and it's gotten pretty big, with the sides sticking out . As a rule of thumb, if you heat it too much, it will smell like eggs. It doesn't taste very good because it simmers , so I ask you to see how it swells first, and then touch it a little bit.If it does n't stick, it will stick a little bit, but it's like when you touch the sticky part. It won't stick to the sticky part, so use that as a guide. It also has elasticity, so I think it will take approximately 40 seconds to 1 minute to heat up, but it may vary slightly depending on the amount, how the microwave heats up, how it hits, and the strength of the microwave. Once heated, wrap it loosely in plastic wrap and chill it in the refrigerator until it's crispy cold.It's tastier when it 's cold. I think it's cool, so I'm going to cool this down.I'm going to cook the rest of the meringue in the same way.If I put it in a piping hot state, steam will still get trapped, so I let it cool down a little, then I wrap it in plastic wrap and cook it a little. Let it cool and then put it in the refrigerator to chill. While it is cooling, make the caramel sauce. I'm going to go ahead and make this il floatant, which can be made with just custard sauce and meringue, but some people add fruits to it, like strawberries or blueberries, or some people eat it with seasonal fruits , or they can also have it with chocolate sauce. Sometimes it's eaten with caramel sauce, so today I'm going to eat it with caramel sauce. I'm going to try making some caramel sauce.It's caramel after all , so the temperature is really high and you might think it's a little scary, but I'm going to make it carefully so it doesn't splatter.Place the granules in a pot. How much sugar should I add , 50 grams? I added about 50 grams of water. Then, add enough water to cover the sugar. While dropping it from the top with your hands, ideally it should be just damp, but if too much water gets in, The caramel will start to burn after the water evaporates, so melting the sugar first will turn it into a liquid. First of all, the water evaporates plus the added water, so it takes quite a while, so I think it's best to keep an eye on it and add it little by little until the entire area is wet. Once you put it in, put it on the fire. It's okay to use high heat. After this, the caramel will start to burn. We'll add a little water to stop the caramel from progressing , but we'll prepare a little water for that.We'll prepare about 50cc of water.Of course, as the caramel cools and solidifies, it will become sticky. , I imagine adding water to it to make it thicker . If you don't touch the pot and move the pot too much , the sugar water will get on the pot's surface and remain on the pot's surface, which will start to burn and end up giving you a very burnt smell. It may turn into caramel, so don't touch it as much as possible and leave it until it burns . There will be a sound while it's happening, so check carefully while listening to this sound. Gradually, this sound will disappear and the bubbles will also be popping. This is because the bubbles disappear as the water evaporates, so that's what happens. Look carefully and judge whether the water will fly away and the concentration of this liquid will follow. Now , it feels like big bubbles are bubbling up. This is also a sign that the concentration of this liquid is getting thicker. Now, the hissing sound has disappeared and the amount is a little small. , the surrounding area has already started to change color.It is relatively easy to see when this amount is large, and the bubbles close quickly. It will start to burn, but when the color starts to stick to the surrounding area, a little smoke will rise, so the color will start to stick all at once, so turn off the heat and shake it a little to get it to burn evenly.Then it will just take care of itself. As the burnt progressed, I took it off the heat and now I can smell the caramel. Add water when you think it's good. At this point, it will splash a little like it did now, so it's a little early on when the color starts to turn a bit caramel-colored. Then turn off the heat and lower the temperature a little. Then , at this stage of adding water, it will rebound a little, or rather, it will become cold. The feeling of hot food getting hot will subside a little, making it harder to fly away, but you can still see some caramel splattered around here right now, so if you're a little scared, it's best to lower the temperature a little more and add water. It's okay, but since I just added water, there is a little bit of caramel left at the bottom, so next time I'll check the consistency and make sure it's at the bottom of the pot until all the caramel is melted. I put it in a container like a bottle, bottle, or cocotte, but it's hard to tell the concentration unless it's cold , so if you want to know quickly, you can put it in a container like this, put it on a plate or a vat and let it cool. Let alone the concentration The ideal thing is to have a creamy consistency, but if it's too loose, it will fall off the meringue and won't get on top of the meringue , so it's thick, but it's thick and sticky, like candy. That's right If you make it and think it's too shabby, boil it down to make it more concentrated.If it's too thick or too solid, add a little water to adjust it. How much water do you add yourself? Try it a few times until you get a feel for how much it should be.As you get used to it, you'll understand how much it should be, and you can measure it, but the amount may vary slightly depending on the type of sugar. It might come Now that all the ingredients have cooled down, I'm going to finish it off.The consistency of the caramel sauce is like this right now, but it's so thick that it just flows when you pour it on.The meringue. It looks like this The sauce is completely cold.I introduced the sauce in another video, so here's what I made with the same amount using that as a reference.As for how to eat it, first, I asked someone to pour a generous amount of the sauce into a bowl, then make the meringue. Scoop it up and float it in a bowl. You can finish it one by one, or you can top it with the caramel sauce you made earlier.This completes the il frotant.Nuts also go well here, so you can sprinkle some light almond slices on top, or crush some mixed nuts. It's delicious even if you mix it up, and it's delicious even if you add that kind of accent, so it's a French-like recipe that can be made with few ingredients, so please try making it at least once.The quantities are listed in the summary section . Goodbye