In this small Guatemalan town, especially for those working in transport, This tuk-tuk driver Always with a smile on his face, Anthony is one of those wonderful people not even taking steep paths with an engine They're going to Calum. It's a remote village They're terrified but we have no choice. To reassure them, Anthony has a strategy. He distracts them by asking question What are the problems you face We don't have a road here. What do you do for a living? Do you feel safe? What about you and your wife? How is your family? The more he talks, This is the first time My tut-tuk could fall He should watch the road Otherwise, It takes a bit of courage, but tuk-tuks and pickups that can reach the villages It took them three hours Three hours being jostled about This amount may sound ridiculous, That's why the young cab driver turning the mountains It might not be such a good idea, though. Guatemala is the most densely yet there are great disparities. There are almost 200 inhabitants compared to fewer than three in the north. This territory is almost entirely covered a hostile environment that these two shamans I've never traveled in this much mud. We're having mud bath in the jungle. An inevitable sacrifice in order to honor the gods at its summit. While Guatemala protects the same cannot be said of its coasts. Some rivers pour real tsunamis at an unstoppable pace. The pollution is unimaginable, and it's killing the wildlife. The pollution contaminates everything. However, there is something This pollution Little hands hunt down and plastic on the landfill I can help my mother The Mayans have not disappeared. Their strength and wisdom No one should be ashamed of their work. Those who work shall be rewarded. In Guatemala, every valley, and every town still bears traces Chichicastenango Churches may stand in the place but the Mayan spirit I now invoke the great volcanoes. Oh, great plains! I summon you, The priests are invoking They need divine authorization to begin their great journey. Tomas, the man with the hat, but he's a shaman. He's taking Eric, his disciple, on the most perilous pilgrimage That is, if the gods and deities The ceremony is part of my apprenticeship. Oh, gods, Receive the offering of Eric, Give him the strength Let him be guided by a star all his life. I ask and implore you I feel their energy. I've heard the call of our ancestors, Suddenly, the fire begins to swirl, a sign that the gods to their ancestors' temple. Eric, are you spiritually ready We'll go all the way to the pyramids El Mirador. Yes, I'm ready. The shaman and his disciple head Over 2,000 years of history The city is not yet open to mass tourism, so the trails leading to it We don't know what the road is like, I'll do my best, If there's too much mud, It's the only way to make it. We're ready. We have the energy They can't imagine how much of this energy and the tone is set Like the 12 Labors of Hercules, their first test is to reach and its underground river, which marks the border and that of the dead. We're going in this direction, the direction of the realm of the dead. That's where I hope Eric can swim! I can't smoke, let alone swim! However, Before that, it's up to the driver I'll hook up the winch cable We'll try to tow it out. Now I'll hook the car to another tree For the shaman and his disciple, It's a sign from the Mayan gods. Eric thinks he's figured it out. Since we're stuck, I had time to notice so I came over to have a look. It's a sign of good fortune. They are indeed moving We're lucky that our ancestors Only if the gods gave it the power However, Eric remains She's coming with us. With or without a living talisman, still has many surprises The shaman and his disciple trying to keep the traditions alive, but some are harder especially when they've become illegal. We're going out to sea It's my first time. I'm going to see Hugo might be getting himself Some sharks are up to eight meters long. His uncle is in charge of teaching him His sunburned face makes him look Thirty years at sea have made Marcos on the coast. From here on, If a wave turns the boat over, Hugo acts as a lookout Shark fishing is strictly forbidden. We're in the Gulf of Honduras. If the Honduran coast guard catches us they'll throw us in jail Playing cat and mouse but getting a shark The bigger sharks are the real scary ones. Look, they've caught one! Let me know if you need some help. It's a small tiger shark, a species that reminds Tomas that doesn't reassure his nephew. It's very dangerous. Once, I took another nephew I saw a shark coming, and it was very big. When I turned on the engine, the shark got scared A hook got stuck in my nephew's foot. I jumped on top of him but the shark kept pulling Now we'll look at the foot of our flag. We might find a shark there. A line with bait is placed under the buoy. We've caught a shark. Don't go any closer. This one took the bait during the night. It died of asphyxiation, because a shark Sharks keep moving even in their sleep. It's a 50-kilogram shark. Beware of their last burst of energy. Watch your fingers. Not sure Hugo has the trade I'm tensed, it's the first time It's really dangerous, It doesn't make me want to do this job. In any case, according to Marcos, the profession is doomed to disappear Overfishing is a cause, In this region, the sea is threatened a phenomenon unparalleled The fisherman and his nephew Fighting to survive, tuk-tuk driver Anthony In the city, competition is fierce, and he has to fight for customers. Competition means lowering fares, so he's decided to quit the streets Up there, tuk-tuks are fewer, However, there's a downside. The hassle also increases, This new energy represents a great hope to save enough money a dream that was put on hold to allow Anthony I'm a single mother. I'm alone to raise my children, and I've always made sure I can't do it anymore Today, the whole family To help us, he's been a tuk-tuk driver Without his work, He needs to continue his studies Be happy, my sister, Dreams come true if you dream them. He has to find something else. He can't be a cab driver all his life. Mom, I promise I'll stop being a driver. I know Dad abandoned us but I'm going to give you some. Don't cry, Mom. Don't you cry. I'll never leave you. Thank you, son. For the love of his mom and his family, Anthony heads to the mountains, and the day gets off to a great start. He lands a customer, These men live in a village Life is hard in Guatemala. There's poverty, misery... There are also impossible roads. The sun doesn't pierce the clouds, especially for the tuk-tuk. Holes and ribs so after an hour of hardship... In this heat, When it's in first gear the engine makes a loud boom sound. I don't know My tuk-tuk is in really bad shape. I'm afraid I'll get stuck and kill the engine. Too heavy for an engine the three men Meanwhile, Anthony paces up to the stream of both the engine and his body. A quick bath, and off he goes again. Let's keep going. He's keeping his spirits up, His first three customers and the road isn't getting any better. Frankly, the state of the road is pitiful. There are holes, potholes, and landslides. Just like this road, everything is complicated in Guatemala Very few reach positions Most are workers: For the latter, the arrival of global warming These mountains have become The Mayans left everything behind Their region had become uninhabitable due to disease They were looking for a better life, and they found it in this valley. Here lies the sleeping giant the volcano that represents us. The Mayan civilization but we, the descendants, won't let this happen to us Warriors without weapons, for there are a thousand ways One of them is passing on Keeping traditions is the mission have set for themselves. They are attempting to reach to honor their ancestors at the summit Beyond the symbolism, they have chosen this city There are virtually no roads There are actually no roads, as this one As for Eric, he's counting on his lucky charm My turtle is still here, bouncing with us. The driver knows he'll need much more The road is really awful It's horrendous. I've never traveled in so much mud. We're having a mud bath in the jungle. The track is very slippery. We're getting deeper No matter how much Tomas and Eric pray nothing works. There's only one solution: It's not very shamanic, We help the driver by hopping like this. It's supposed to help We do what we can We've got to hop better than that. Come on, Eric, push the car! However, two shamans dancing Oh, no, it's raining. We'll must wait for the rain to let up. For the driver, this is too much. He prefers to throw in the towel. Gentlemen, we've made it this far, but now we can't go any further, so take your luggage, It's going to rain, Eric. The other bag is missing, I came in tennis shoes, -Thank you very much. Thanks, it's nice of you. We have to hurry before it gets dark. We have no choice but to keep going. The forest may be dense, they can finally get some rest. Early in the morning, a pleasant surprise. The sun is out, and better yet, they found a driver to take them and the underground river Back in the day, the Mayans used to come They used the caves as sanctuaries. Today, shamans perpetuate Mayan beliefs, What I feel the centuries of oppression who imposed Christianity on them. The cave is three hours away on foot, Without her, Here lies one of the gateways the world of the dead. Don't be fooled, There's no devil here. It's a peaceful world from which water, Before entering the infraworld, I call upon the heart of heaven, the heart of earth, the heart of air, I never imagined I imagined a small cave but this entrance is so impressive. I feel all the energy of the place. The entrance to the infraworld To reach it, Unlike the Styx, you don't have to pay Instead, to open the passage, We're now ready to change worlds. Before we can pass through, we must ask our Creator's permission can enter the infraworld, where our dead lie It's positive, it's positive! Can you read it in the cigar? Of course, I can. I can see a lot of light, a lot of wealth, Tomas has to smoke seven cigars. Each one brings an answer, We did it! We've done it! We did it because the cigar split in two. The shaman has brought boys but the gods won't show them the way, Without their Mayan guide, This is the entrance to the infraworld. The ancestors have given us permission. We're welcome here Eric, how are you feeling? On the way, I was tired, but since I entered the cave, Be careful, it's slippery! You could get hurt and drown, It's completely dark! I can't imagine how our ancestors They've arrived on the other side, a world where life and death Indeed, there's a gentle sense It's only for those The gods wrote it in the cigar. There's still a long way to go The forest stretches seemingly endless, and yet its surface razed for its wood and to raise livestock It's a massacre that doesn't stop there. In Guatemala, rivers are discharging It's useless to look for fish. They disappeared a long time ago. According to the NGO Ocean Cleanup, every year, carrying 20,000 tons of plastic. That is 2% of all the plastic To stop this tsunami of waste, an NGO built a dam In the face of the weight, Bottles, trays, yogurt pots, and other plastic objects to be dumped into the Gulf of Honduras. Fishermen like Hugo and Marcos and more and more garbage in their nets. At certain times of the year, when we're out shark fishing it gets covered in plastic. It's a real sea of garbage! It's all because of the garbage This improvised dam was built who were fed up with the garbage. The dam didn't resist The river discharge is so much and ends up creating islands. Take a look at this, it's rotting garbage! All this pollution then washes up Grab the anchor! To think that not so long ago, We've been dealing for at least ten years. It contaminates everything! This alligator died because of the waste, My dream is that all this rubbish If the government doesn't help us, we won't be able Marcos and his nephew have thought but to start a new life, In our area, it's hard to get by. Whatever work we do, it's impossible to earn a good living. I'll have to keep on fishing, There's still some fish left, but the plastic is slowly killing off One of the reasons is the landfills upstream. They're rudimentary dumps They're a disaster for nature and a way It's not a difficult job. You just have to be careful That's all. Like Elsa, dozens of them looking for the smallest plastic bottle, tin can, or other object Their little hands get $0.50 A few bills to supplement family incomes, not to mention the little extras who have everything they need. I found a pair of sandals. No, they're torn. Axel, 12, work at the dump every day. Look, I found a game console! Give it to me, I want it! I'll open it Yes, there are batteries, look! I'll keep it. The extraordinary thing about children is that they can forget to play a few improvised games. Alfredo strays a little, but his big brother doesn't lose sight I don't like my little brother Something might happen to him. There are lots of stray dog carcasses, The vultures end up eating them Not to mention the smoke The smell of garbage is very strong, It's very dangerous, and it gets into our lungs It kills, we mustn't stay here too long. I'll sell it at the market. I can help my mother They live in that house Mom, come see the stuff I've collected. We'll try to sell that on Sunday. This is my mom and my little brother. With the money her children bring in, Maria Rosa buys a few beers Not enough to get rich, but just enough to survive Two years ago, The doctors told me they were cancerous. That's why I can't work because the fumes hurt me. It affects me more than others. I wish God would give me a few more years My father often told me so I tried to look and keep only the good things Despite our misfortunes, I do it especially for my children I can't fail them. To live up to her words, by sending her kids Two days worth of money are lost. The two brothers are also ready Opposite their dump lies a border They dream of one day and take off on a great adventure. Do you see the opposite bank of the river? That's where the American dream begins. I promise you that one day, Once we're there, and above all, I promise you When he set off for the mountains, to earn a better living by charging In the end, the tuk-tuk driver with very few customers The current in this waterfall I don't know if I can cross it A small victory quickly erased but despite everything, Anthony keeps smiling His energy is rewarded by helping hands You'll try to drive as high as you can where we've removed the stones. We will push you as hard as we can. I hope that I can give up driving soon. I don't want to drive I have to work She's everything to me. Every day, she helps me and prays for me. I'm nothing without my family. I wish people would stop I'll tell you something, Those who work shall be rewarded. I'll tell you that much, Since our shoot, but he started to put aside savings that are bringing him of joining the police academy. In the middle of the rainforest, two people are about to After ten days of driving Shaman Tomas and his disciple Eric At 72 meters high, the largest Mayan pyramid, is still imposing. All around it, under the forest, that is yet to be discovered. The two shamans and Tecun Uman, one of the last Mayan heroes I remember a great poem that says: Tecun Uman, he of the green towers. In a single file, Indians, Indians, Indians like 100,000 ants, armed with 7,000 blowpipes and 1,000 axes. These are the great towers We thank our ancestors for leading us to this Olympus, to this majestic place. [Spanish spoken audio] Pyramids served as temples, tombs for rulers, observatories to observe the stars, places of sacrifice, and guardians of the history of a people They have been carried that brings together and restores