It's April 6, 1994 and two men plunge into the record, but only one of them will ever return. for a human - over 800 feet (ca. 244 m) below the an instant. Where it doesn't matter how much you a world-class athlete, you can still fall victim The Zacaton sinkhole - located in Tamaulipas, Mexico and with a depth of over 1,000 feet (ca. sinkholes in the world. This depth has made it ambitious divers over the years, including who was the first person in the At age 19, Exley and his younger brother competed Springs, pushing the needle on a pressure dove to 50 feet, before he went limp and the water and rushed to a hospital, A fate that is sadly all too His brother's death didn't cause him to go deeper and deeper, chasing ever more your average diver is advised not to go highly-trained and skilled. Exley, though, lower. He planned to reach the very bottom of A few years prior to his dive at Zacaton, Exley feet in the Mexican cave of Nacimiento Mante. and the two became fast friends over their love Zacaton before. There was no strong current and in April 1993, Exley reached When Bowden and Exley realized it was as if they had uncovered the most the perfect spot to smash a record and pass an To understand just how deep that is, diving of more than three football fields placed and the men vowed to complete the for one of these ambitious divers, A year goes by quickly too, and April 1994 the men to see the dream fulfilled. The two which included their mixes of gas for the journey. When diving, the mixture of gas placed For recreational diving down to 130 feet, it is breathe on the surface, with 79 percent nitrogen divers will use something called Trimix, a mixture include 21/35, or 21 percent oxygen, 35 percent is 18 percent oxygen and 45 percent helium. For needs to be increased to reduce the risk of oxygen and a standard mix for a depth of more than 300 and 20 percent nitrogen. Even with a perfectly the divers would need to breathe carefully in and avoid running out as the pressure increased, breathing could throw off their calculations rigorously for this undertaking and now it Exley, Bowden, and their support team of Mary and Marcos Gary gathered near the sinkhole. They writer and photographer from Sports Illustrated, and a TV crew from Channel 7 news of Tampico. Even see the amazing feat achieved. Everyone watched and began to swim. They first passed a 600-foot passage leading to and reached their respective descent They would be diving together, but beautiful weather they had been graced and they wished each other luck. It was Bowden and Exley began to descend. before entering a free fall down Exley had done everything he could to prepare and more extreme depths, but while attempting South Africa, he reached a depth overcome with troubling physical visual hallucinations such as flashing auras All of these were textbook symptoms or HPNS. HPNS can set in at a depth of 500 feet the risk of HPNS dramatically increases. HPNS is during a descent. The exact physical nature of the compression of cell membranes in the central it could potentially be deadly if they weren't on his dives as well, and the two men planned prevent falling victim to it again at this crucial Bowden's strategy for the descent was to fall 300 feet using his air tank, then switching to for the next six hundred feet, before finally At around 750 to 800 feet, he would experienced HPNS symptoms on a previous dive. noticing a small tremor in his body. He could friend had pressed on ahead of him, but they At least, that's what he thought. As he reached 900 feet though, Bowden could no gauge and saw that something was terribly dipped to nearly 1000 PSI, when he had planned dive. If he didn't figure something out- survive the decompression on the way up. He When ascending from a dive, divers must a bit at a time in order to reacclimate their any inert gasses in their system. nitrogen bubbles can form in the bloodstream, of the body. Depending on the frequency of decompression can take up to 24 hours- Thinking quickly, he inflated his BCD wings, a buoyancy control device that fills with air he switched to the tank of bottom mix under as he climbed up to 450 feet. He assumed the bottom of the sinkhole, and that But Bowden wasn't the only one facing an in, when Exley was at a depth of approximately 879 and his body began to shake with muscle tremors. obvious course would be to attempt an ascent, running low. But nitrogen narcosis, a nitrogen is absorbed into the blood, was beginning with the tremors and dizziness made it difficult In order to stabilize himself, he wrapped his in place and gather his thoughts. The stress of than planned, and he was forced to switch gas combination of physical exertion, hyperoxia, all combined with the dizzying effect resisting movement, while it became harder and eyes, heart, and lungs, were all struggling to limit. He may have tried to manually but was unable to do so. He was trapped, 879 symptoms that included hallucinations, And all the while, the air was running out. As Exley was struggling to hold on, Bowden reached 450 feet, he found that his nightmare he had been using to breathe... were empty. and his only option was to open and close the eight minutes of ascent between him and the next minutes feeling like hours, never knowing arms reached out, he suddenly found that bottle that had a functioning regulator, But he wasn't out of the It was now time to navigate the lengthy prevent oxygen toxicity and a nasty case he was ready to relax a bit, knowing that he he noticed something that made his heart sink. the fact that his bottles had gone unused. But had gone deeper than him, broken the record, and But while Bowden was unsure about what on the surface could tell that something was see a set of bubbles indicating that one of the There was just one problem: there was only medical officer and herself a record-breaking wrote on an underwater slate &quot;Where's Sheck?&quot; an extra bottle of gas mixture, and told the She dove all the way to 279 feet, where, near floating through the water. At first, she couldn't her like a ton of bricks. They were the laminated as a planning tool for his descent and ascent. but she knew at that moment, Sheck Exley Hohle met Mary Ellen at about 100 feet. and she was clearly distraught. mixing with the freshwater of the sinkhole, and to go back up to the surface right away, to tell Her gauge read &quot;278 feet.&quot; With no other option, her in the silence of the water until thirty a time when they felt so very alone, adrift in the Somewhere between 60 and 100 feet, Hohle used She couldn't find Sheck anywhere. they would have to mount a search for him. Unable had in the face of malfunctioning gas tanks, robotic fashion for the rest of the ascent. Bowden emerged beneath a night sky, and suffered Kristovich treated him with a anticoagulants, and painkillers, and by the next morning, he had recovered but not from the pain of losing Exley somewhere breaking the world record for open-circuit As days passed, the team feared that they would buried with Exley's body at the bottom of the team began to pull up Exley's line, the unused came with it- tangled up in the guideline. But the an examination of Exley's body could answer, His wrist-mounted dive computer read: 879 twisted around his arms and the valves of seemed deliberate. It was possibly used but there was an additional possibility Perhaps, in his final moments of lucidity, Exley a dangerous body retrieval attempt. Perhaps, whose body he had been unable to retrieve from the not, Exley made certain his colleagues and friends Only Sheck Exley knows for certain what happened sinkhole. The condition of his body provided the deep. Though his mask and equipment were mouth. His BC contained gas, and its inflator was accurately measured for the depth of the dive. suggesting that, faced with the myriad stressors Exley had simply not been able to get another or lost consciousness, and simply slipped The peers that Exley left behind that day could they could only give it their best guess. They not have panicked. Exley had the coolest head him to save numerous other divers over the The people of el Nacimiento and Higeron left a days following the loss of Exley, a simple with a deep reverence and respect. Though he exploring. In the words of Jim Bowden, &quot;I alive than in those moments of trial.&quot; but then we always dove alone anyway. Perhaps we can only hope that in those last moments before Now check out "The Most Brutal Painless Death In History | Sucked Through a Tiny