Good morning. Thank you. It's I've really enjoyed and I'm happy to I wanna say a little bit how we as data and then where do What is a future So this is an opinionated talk, and I wanna give you a chance during the talk, but we'll do So tell me what you think. I'm gonna start with my most In 2003, when my wife and I I Googled this question. Are first babies more likely And what I got at the time My cousin had two babies, and therefore, I don't know. What we need here is data, and the National Survey This is a survey It started in 1973. They've They have more than a hundred And for female respondents, they have details on their length, including And so I thought if we're week 35, which is when this question pointed, we can ask what is remaining lifetime or remaining And you can see here the blue and the orange curve And this is the distribution And you can see that, in fact, first babies are a little bit nominal 59 weeks, and a little bit more likely So now if you Google the first two hits And if you go farther you'll get this BBC article So I am now the on this topic. How did this happen? So why am I saying that this is Because I took a question and I put it over into the And this was not hard to do. I needed data and it was Thank you to the NSFG. Simple methods, basic statistics, all and a venue to make it And that's all we need. This is an example of what I which is a set of for answering questions, and making better decisions. So that's how I got here. How did we get here And to think about this, I think the Gartner If you are not familiar with it, this is the idea new technologies go through with these catchy names. There's a technological trigger There is a peak of a trough of disappointment, and then a plateau So what is the that created data science? I'm gonna suggest it's ENIAC. This is the first programmable digital computer in 1945. So how did this Here's my thesis and here's the Data science exists because the boat on computers. And let me explain especially if we look Most people, if you take the canonical you learn the central limit special cases where sampling mathematical plot. And then people graduate and they encounter data and they ask for help. And they go to the and they ask, which This is the question on Reddit statistics, Because their education that all of the problems You just have to know which that's your fault. That's not true. I think the data the computational approach problems have been solved. What we need is a to compose the And what is the most A programmable electronic So I want to the difference between computational statistics by inference in ten minutes. And we're gonna do this by testing If you're not it is the idea that males are more variable than It is a controversial idea. It has a long and So if you're interested, As my example, I'm gonna try to use and we'll just talk about the difference We need data. Again, the The Behavioral Risk System, the BRFSS, is another repeated cross the US. They get more than each cycle, and it includes self So as a warm up, let's just look at the difference I'm gonna do this by resampling. This is one of the core tools It's the idea that you take the use it to build a model of the and then use that model to synthesized samples. That's the idea of resampling. More specifically with we're gonna do that by drawing a new sample that is the same And so now let's see In code, it's a lot shorter me to say in words. There's what it looks like. It's a function that and it uses the sample method that is the same length n and So that's it. That's the Now we need a test statistic, and we're gonna start with So here's a function now which is the difference in It uses the groupby method by sex and then extract And then the second line there and then diff computes the So it's the difference in means The last thing I'm gonna do is So this list comprehension so it generates new data frames. And then for each one, it Here's what the This is the distribution This is the sampling of the difference in height and it looks like men are So you've all learned We can now use that sampling distribution So one is, how precise In other words, if we had run how much would we expect that sample to another? And we can do that by computing contains ninety five percent of those And from that, we can say men point forty three centimeters. I can put a confidence and because my sample the confidence interval That's the first question. Second question is, if we had collected is it possible that it could That in this sample, maybe women would have and not surprisingly, we'll We can compute a p-value. Here's the function And this is based on an that sampling distribution behaves And in that case, I can use the cdf of right there to compute difference we saw could have In this case, the so we conclude that it is difference that big by chance. Now if you know some this group, I suspect probably said, wait a minute. You just did a difference We could have done that I could have even Why are we doing all this? Well, we didn't really care We really care about the deviation or some other So, okay, how are With mathematical statistics, we now have to go back Okay? It's not a t-test. What's the test for comparing the I don't know. We gotta go Whereas with I can take that example seven lines of code, and I'm gonna make it do the like that. It was kind of subtle. Let me Here's the difference in means. Here's the difference This is the nice thing about I can do any test Here's what that This is the sampling in standard deviations. And once again, it's precise big and the p-value So this is saying that at least men are more But maybe standard deviation measure because almost if it makes bigger things, it So we might be more interested in And so maybe we should use instead because that's the ratio And, so we could go back to the how to compare Or again, we can go back to this like that. So not too bad. It got a little coefficient of variation so I had to implement it. But we're still at a grand And now we can see that the and the p-value is small. So this result is but the difference is really consequences in real life. And it might actually just be There are suspiciously short So I guess our answer is this support for the but that wasn't really the The point of this is that gets you so far. Really, there is only one and that is this framework. This is the there is It always starts with a dataset, and you have to choose a test the effect, the size of the You use the data to create We did that by but there are other You use that model now to generate For each data set, you compute collect all of the results, that's your sampling you can compute a confidence That is it. That is all of statistical and nine lines of code. So here's the the analogy I this channel where they Mathematical statistics is hits the first barrier and it gets And computational statistics build because it's got six has stilts and it can So there's my claim. The technological trigger for because statistics as a field And with apologies to people in statistician, I'm really The field missed the boat and So I think that's why And now the question is, have we hit the peak Are we in the trough Where are we here? So for the peak of expectations, I wanna nominate 2009 to 2012. In 2009, we got And then in 2010, the which turned machine learning In 2011, we got Moneyball, which turned spectator Coursera turned machine learning And then in 2013, everybody job of the 21st century, which I'm gonna nominate as the And when we look at it now, it's kind of like So if that was the peak, what about the trough I'm gonna nominate 2016 2018, Cathy O'Neil to the dark side of big data. ProPublica got us thinking about algorithmic fairness And famously, data scientists failed to Now that's not exactly correct, but that is how 2017 from former we got some of the first evidence We got alarms about fairness, and race. We got warnings about algorithms We learned that Cambridge Facebook data. We learned that Google had And just to cap it all off, we learned that machine learning So that was not great. And I think that's how we ended the trough of disillusionment. So where do we go from here? How do we climb the and what does the plateau So I wanna suggest two optimistic about one that makes me nervous, and then I have a plea for what you can So here's one thing In 1985, we had some of The USA Today started including this hard hitting laundry people In 2015, the Upshot which is a three-dimensional the yield curve, one of the ideas in economics. Now I'm not sure the yield curve, but I really appreciate which I think is a real thing. I think data journalism is data literacy in general. So I really think that's good. They are also complementing generate data and Just as two small examples, the Washington Post now has deaths than the FBI does. And the New York Times has safety than the Department So these are good things. I think we're improving data of data is continuing Those are all good. Here's the thing and this comes from the If you are not familiar with it, it is a really great They have been doing a repeated US since the 1970s. They have a total now of And one of the questions that cycle since 1972 is this one. Taken altogether, how would Would you say that you are or not too happy? So I grabbed that data, and This is the fraction of It was in the mid thirties It was declining slowly and to decline a bit more quickly. Now if you look at that over but it's a relatively Let me show you now what that This is the fraction of people happy grouped by what So for people born in the 1880s, because this data they were obviously they interviewed, but they It was declining for a while steeply now for people and 2000s. This is not just because we're And to see that, let and this takes some unpacking. This is now grouped So each line represents one 1890s up to the bottom Those are the people who and following them over time So there's a lot going on. For many groups, things have but the noteworthy thing in the is that people born in the now than any previous So why? Why is that happening? It's complicated. It's There are going to I wanna talk about which is seems likely of this is excessive negative media. Now negativity bias is not new. There has always been and fundamentally in our heads. In our psychology, we have but the pattern of We have a new word for it, This is spending too much time especially negative media. So from a data I think this is a It is a bias in our media diet, which suggests that data could a partial solution Now the world champion of antidote to negativity This is his famous video development in the last hundred and life expectancy. Out of curiosity, how many Okay. A lot. I thought so. If you have not, I have four minutes and forty really going to enjoy. If you haven't read, I recommend this This is the the antidote to beliefs that many people That's from 2018, so But if you want the our world in data is the They do research and data world's largest problems. And if you explore their site, you will see lots of graphs the right, like life expectancy, and bad things like poverty So check that out. I And what you'll find is almost everything Now people don't know this, This is from Gapminder. This is the same group They have a lot of tests that perception of the and I'm gonna give So how did the number of change over the Take a second. More than doubled, decreased to less than half, more stayed about the same, decreased to less than half. Okay. If you said that it you are correct. And here's the data This is the raw number of going back to nineteen hundred. And depending on when you difference, it has declined In that time, at the same time, world population has gone up So as a rate, this has K? This is good news. People When people take these quizzes, Eighty four percent of There were only three choices. Thirty three percent Sixty six should have got it So people don't know this. I gave one of these quizzes I had the students take the reflections on it. This is the Google survey. I don't expect you but I wanna draw your attention almost every response. I was too pessimistic. And one person just And I wanna tell you You are not a pessimist. You have been misled by a On long term trends, almost I have found that when I And my conclusion is we need to On long term trends, almost and we still have serious and our history of suggests that we can And when I say that, yes, So where I think we we have not responded as We're still not doing but many environmental already going in and there are paths between toward a stable, healthy environment and a good quality So we are not doomed. But a lot of people If you think we're doomed or we're doomed, please I don't have a chance here to I think where we think But, Hannah Ritchie, who is now coincidentally a Data, this book case really well. Get a copy, read it out loud So negativity bias, I think is a serious threat undermines our ability to that we need to address. So finally, here is my plea. Here is what I would like you this trough of disillusionment and First, stop telling from climate change. Second, stop reading the news. This is the other book The title says it all, but if you have trouble reading the news, Last thing, use data to that we know how to There's a lot of data out there, and I'll tell you a secret. A lot of the organizations and especially have enough resources to make and often not a lot of So when you're the first datasets and really you will inevitably like first babies are more that are more So take advantage of the And this group in particular that you need to resolve debates, and It's the tools of open science. And let me turn that Open data, open source software, open methodology, open and especially from open educational resources. So I wanna end on that because it's I'll give you a few links and, credit for some of the If you are interested in that is from Think Stats. And the third edition is what It's available I'll also give you another that you can get those links. The data there, as I said, is from the National Survey of The resampling example, if that is from Elements of And all of that data also from the CDC. Finally, that happiness example Probably Overthinking It, and that data is from the Last thing, all of the Those links will take you to So if you wanna replicate experiments, you can do that. And as of Monday, I learned my Python examples into R. So if you wanna see the variability This is, I will admit, the beyond hello world, and I am do a code review. So I would like to hear what you So I feel like I've Here are five ways that you wanna talk back, but we also have chance And again, you can grab the slides So questions. Thank you. Thanks for a really So again, if you've got questions link from the app, and we've Okay. A lot coming in already. Okay. Two little we're we're kind of starting So two questions, kind of related about First of all, like survey data. You know, it's really important to account And what about the case where datasets with heavier tails? Like, where do you kinda draw statistics and Yes. All good questions. So the first one about I actually cut that but it is in the notebook. You'll see the BRFSS so I had to correct for that by part of the bootstrap process. And that all I had to do was take an additional parameter, So that's one of the nice that kind of reweighting With small samples, you do run into the Achilles which is data diversity. If you have a small sample and the new samples will and you won't see enough And in that case, one option is to switch where instead of just doing you take your data, you build but the model now is And so it has some And now when you draw samples, those samples will be the ways that that we want. So where do I draw the I use computational One concept I learned and maybe you've heard of too, is that this idea of Have you heard this and I'll probably but from computer science simple methods that like, end up winning And it felt to me like that's what Like, it's a simple method. It requires computation, computation continues to and we don't have to worry these, like, special Yeah. Really interesting. Bitter Lesson. I'll send you the I'll send you It's a cool idea. Okay. Next question. I think this question possibly I'm gonna say that. I can hear you. How do you suggest we calibrate account for Simpson's Paradox, where all of these large but if you break them down they all go the opposite way? I think that's but I don't think I've You know, one of my the global trend was, you and then when you all of the regions are negative. There will always be exceptions. There will be short and there will be so where things are not But the long term I have not seen examples Thank you. What was the hardest part Oh, you know what the It was fixing my environment. I had an old broken and it took me an hour and It's not Python. Most people Don't have environment. Same complaint about What do you think that to get on the boat, and what do data science sure their students stay statistically Yeah. What do educators need And sorry. Second part? So statistics educators, how do we get them moving towards Yeah. And I think while still cultivate that skepticism that Right. Well, so one piece of this, a lot of universities are and they're going about it in a which is that they get a bunch bunch of statisticians and try And the assumption is that that is And I think that doesn't work. I think data science is a those, and starting with attached to those identities is So I think if you're gonna you need data scientists. Interesting. Thank you. K. This is this is What do you sacrifice in your life I was amazed by all Oh, thank you. I really I don't feel like I really enjoy the work. I make consistent progress, so I don't feel like you know, sudden bursts of, I don't do all nighters, But I don't think I'm neglecting Is your wife in the audience? My wife is in fact here, so we can ask. I will also say, like, as as someone who's written I find that, for me personally, just making that Yeah. And that advice everyone who wants And so far, like, no one has It's a very, it's a very simple idea, Yeah. But I think at some just becomes like your default. And you just, I personally feel like, something is I don't know if I think for me, it's it's the most relaxing So if I'm stressed about taking some time to focus and Hey. Humans and governments often challenges like climate change when How do we inspire change Yeah. And I do think that's part of which is climate denialism that people felt like they metaphorically and, you more strongly, this is a and it's we've So, yeah, how do you without invoking that overshoot? That is a really hard I think, like, to me, I think about the year 2000 everyone was like, oh my god. It's gonna be terrible, And so people are like, But you can't tell whether because people did all Like, that it's just this a problem before they don't appreciate This is kind of like a this development as well. Right? If you make, if you remove people from having to feel pain, they don't appreciate you. You have to, like, make them away, and then they This is not a technique I use. I'm just saying. That's that's a a good analogy. But it also reminds me, we do have a long history of And so, you know, a recent relatively current one is In the 1980s, that And when was the last time you And the reason is that we have We banned most of the chemicals The ozone hole has been closing completely close by So we actually got together. I think it's the Montreal treaty, international treaty. I think a hundred and ninety countries Yeah. Again, it's very it's the pain that's gone away. Yeah. How do you reconcile a desire citizen with advice that says So I've started doing I've consumed almost I do read The Economist, And what I found is that if that I really need to know Yeah. Yes. Here's a good one. Should we distinguish data Is there a meaningful Yeah. So, you know, is Because when you're you're almost always and you are using that resolve debates, and So, yeah, I think there's That last part, though, which is that science is knowledge and not necessarily So maybe what that means is broader than science because it Yep. Yep. Makes sense. How do you reconcile optimism of climate scientists that unreconcilable ecological disaster and whose historical towards being overly Right. So, yes, the one way if we look at long term Things are going well. If we keep doing what we're those long term trends We did things that So if we keep doing what we're as we confront them, we should The exception to that would where we really do cross a line And there are some scenarios that is a possibility. My understanding of current don't have strong evidence or high probability events. So I am still going on doing what we're doing, things but something like that So you talked about, you provided us a hypothesis leading cause of lower reported Do you have any data to So, yes. I claimed that, consumption of negative media is I have read articles There are, books like and a few others. I'll get you some So I haven't worked but I have read enough books plausible hypothesis as at Not trying to assert that I the problem, not that. This next question is how do you if you're how do you avoid getting stuck where you're just gonna Is there a trough I think the the real qualifier just because things that doesn't mean it will We still need to do the What we're depending on is the working on these problems and the new things that will So I think that would be not the unwarranted optimism that magically is gonna get better. So not that. And I think, you know, there are also other ways following the news too closely. You can read, you can read Like, the news cycle is very rapid Yeah. And Yeah. Yeah. There are ways to kind Yeah. Longer term media. And, you know, as I recommend that you read books. Yeah. How do you account regarding the definition I think this is bit of hedonic treadmill as well. Like, also, as as things you expect them to be better. And then when they get worse, even if they were better it still feels bad. Yes. Well, so the shifting one, and it's, in some You know, at some point in and then you target that. And if things go well, eventually that target becomes higher threshold. So that's good. That's It just means you have to be when you're doing But there was a second part there Remind me. I think that question got wiped off already. So I've already And that is why you should Yeah. What about the the Is it truly the do you like do media or the reader's behavior negative news more? It's definitely both. So negativity bias is one It seems to be just And in some sense, it makes sense that we should things that are broken So it's potentially But now if you put that brain gets that constant feedback, I think that's where Because the, you know, the out that people will pay more positive news, so that's And I think that's the feedback cycle Well, and I think I mean, I will data science is partly to organizations are very what are people reading And they wanna serve They wanna, you know, They wanna give the And that can easily lend itself they're like, well, what are And that's, you know, that's like listicles and, the secrets that so and so Right? Like, there is this how do you survive as an Like, how do you make money while still And, like, not being what the data is telling you. I think there's a sort Yeah. There that you wanna, like, pay attention to the data but you can't just follow it. You can't just A/B test the maximizing your revenue or whatever you wanna maximize it. Yeah. Yeah. It's a challenge. How effective is data in media environment where people can tell them what they wanna hear? Do you find people receptive everything social No. Yeah. No. I mentioned this very on long term trends, almost Very often, people and part of it is, you know, you know, they've heard and you can't nobody changes tell them something. And it can be mistaken It sounds like I'm saying, oh, We don't have to do anything. So that's what I I find myself I need to say Yeah. And one of them is things but also things But also we can continue to make Which is a three part statement. And as we've already shown that, probably people are forgetting the Exactly. And yeah. It's hard to get all of the the pieces into your head at the more complex side. Listen. How do you respond to the world is improving, our existential risk is increasing are increasing? I think that's The existential risk and the I think the second The tails are generally There are examples of but those are more often far to the right. Usually the bottom is So I don't think that there you know, short-term localized By and large, on large scales, we are all making progress. And especially if we look at meeting basic human needs, we than at any previous time Yeah. I think you are one hundred celebrate the but it's a fallacy that just in the past that we And I think you are gaslighting real challenges other Okay. So it's a fallacy in which is just because I can't prove that it That's the problem of induction. I can't solve the but I can reason from evidence. And I can say probabilistically that have been successful not provable, you but likely to continue And if we look at the last has worked, we should And so, no, it's not It is an assertion Kind of a follow-up to that. How much do you think is as a white male and the Yeah. My life is So and that is, I think, one of the reasons that people because I'm in a very And, you know, that's That is true as an American. I have every advantage So I do understand why it could up here and say how But the reason I go to data not just for me. It is long term trends. It is almost every it is It is almost every It is getting better for almost everybody You know, not just me. But, yeah. I think well, many of these questions how much do you believe, like how much do you trust what data to support that? Mhmm. And how much do you trust beliefs in the face of that. So, how do you think about, updating your beliefs, Mhmm. How do you, What's some belief that data I think, you know, When I get a new dataset, All of these surveys I've been following And when they release new data, that's a week of my life that I'm And I'm gonna be and I enjoy that more when I'm It's I think, yeah, there's always I don't feel good when I see data that I feel excited when I see and that's the first thing share with everybody. So I do think fundamental wanting to know and wanting to partial antidote to So we have, like, I'm gonna go on the record and question on a bummer. Mhmm. So I am gonna skip Oh, no. Sorry. Sorry, people. I want, like, I wanna I Let let me ask people. So, I mean, you all just asked outlook reflects So for people, if what I said is questions that are And come talk to me more. But also, I ask yourself and I'm genuinely do you feel that way? And maybe we can I don't know. Do we should we do a show of like, genuinely, like, generally optimistic about the future Or is that I don't I don't want to put High risk. We can have everyone can't see the results. You're done. This is really high, high Yeah. Okay. I'm I'm still gonna Here's a gimme. What advice do you have Well, learn Python. No. Now I do wanna go back to of open science resources. That is your toolkit and it starts with open and that certainly Right. Thanks so much, Alan. Thank you very much. Thank you.