- [Narrator] 1942, the The Axis and the Allied We are in the midst of the A war which will cause In Rome, the Pope, Pius XII, is confined to his palace As the spiritual leader Catholics around the world, he must guide the church through of our history. Because 1,000 kilometers away in Poland, Hitler has already begun The extermination of all Jews in Europe, whom he would gas to death all carried out in top secret. And yet, the pope is well-aware. As he is one of the most The world awaits any kind of grand gesture or speech condemning these atrocities - [Narrator] But the pope remains silent. Surely, in principle, are fundamentally opposed. - [Narrator] Excluding their the Catholic Church will find that. As early as the 1930s onwards, dozens of priests become Nazis. The Vatican will let it happen. The church will even make by signing an international agreement. - [Narrator] You will discover the church, fervent admirers of Hitler, who champion the cross of - [Narrator] After the war will help the biggest Nazi Among them, Joseph - We're talking about I think we should point It's not just about helping somebody who is in But organizing new papers for Holocaust perpetrators by Italian authorities This goes far beyond to - [Narrator] This is the the story of an institution to be above all suspicion, into collusion with evil itself. (anticipatory music) All ambiguity of the links Nazism had begun well To understand this, we must of the 1930s. More precisely, January the 30th, 1933. Hitler has just been elected But this is not enough for him. His goal is to impose a dictatorship. (speaking foreign language) To accomplish this, Hitler and to do that, he must of the Reichstag representatives. His one hope, is to one that holds great the Zentrum. A hundred or so centrist representatives Catholic representatives. - [Narrator] But the that it would be impossible for the church to give its voice to Hitler. Nazism and Catholicism - [Narrator] But more is If he wants full powers, he must convince, at all costs, the Zentrum. (speaking foreign language) - [Narrator] But these fine to appease the German Catholics. However, everything is at stake So, here is the Fuhrer's plan, it's not only the German but their leader the Pope himself. From the outset, this mission and yet, we see that the idea will be rather welcomed. We find ourselves in Rome, Italy. Wedged inside the the Catholic Church's seat of power. At its head since 1992, the Pope, Pius XI. A Pope with an obsession, with Germany to protect the - [Narrator] Hitler could thus on the condition that he of the full powers. And it seems that the idea of negotiating with the Fuhrer does not repel the Pope. Because for Pius XI, Hitler He sees him, above all, as A man who could prevent and suffocating the Church. The Vatican's incessant fear. - [Narrator] To negotiate with Hitler, the Pope sends one of Eugenio Pacelli. He is the Secretary of State. He's the number two of the Vatican City. And the Pope had chosen him, because he knows Germany very well. He was ambassador for A strategic post. - [Narrator] But the Concordat (singing in foreign language) Elsewhere, in Germany, decided on a policy full of implications. On March the 23rd, 1933 the German Catholics have to Hitler. The Fuhrer now has free reign It's impossible for historians the Vatican and Eugenio Pacelli - [Narrator] Several days later, the German church will once again give Hitler what he to also be Nazis. Two years earlier, the Only, with the desire the church will give in. From the 28th of March 1933, be Nazis. Dozens of priests will the Hitlerite party. At the Vatican, no one can quite the contrary. - [Narrator] But will the an international agreement with the Nazis? Especially as in Rome, during the Pope receives some the situation in Germany. The Jews there are being persecuted. Their shops are being boycotted. They are excluded from all from the economy. The Fuhrer is putting in measures that will become the Voices are raised to warn the Vatican. Among them, an outraged woman she pleads him to intervene. Her name is Edith Stein. Her journey is surprising. Edith was born into a Jewish family. She is an intellectual and a feminist. She has unlike most other a doctorate, and is a At 30 years old, Edith Stein She is recognized as a an exemplary life. In April 1933, this is the - [Woman] Holy Father! As a child of the Jewish the grace of God a child of ago, I dare express to what is tormenting millions of Germans. - [Woman] Through its call to boycott, the government is pushing I was aware of five these attacks. I am persuaded that this is hinting at a general phenomenon that will - [Narrator] But above the Pope to intervene. If he doesn't, she threatens, he would be an accomplice - [Woman] The responsibility those have pushed them to this extremity. It also falls upon those who We fear the worst for if it continues to remain silent. - [Narrator] The Pope receives and he will read it. But he will choose not to do anything. His only response, was that he'd ask for God's blessing for her. In fact, without knowing letter to the Vatican at - [Narrator] The Vatican Eugenio Pacelli was about that he so desired. Hitler accepted the Rome, 20th of July, 1933. Around the table, next to Franz Von Papen, the He represents the Fuhrer This agreement, which is a relief for the Vatican. It assures them, officially, of German Catholics, as Article one, the German Reich guarantees freedom of profession the Catholic religion. It recognizes the right to organize and administer But in reality, the real winner of this international treaty is Hitler. The church offered on a silver platter the final piece he was missing the stature of a true head of state. - [Narrator] But this honeymoon and the Nazis will not last long. Hitler wants to position Very quickly, he violates the Concordat. He dismantles the and arrests, and sometimes At the same time, he attacks a new arsenal of anti-semitic measures, the Nuremberg laws of 1935. The Jews lose their German of their civil rights, mixed In Rome, Pope Pius XI is not Four years after having entered the pope becomes disillusioned. He comes to realize who Hitler really is. So for the first time, he His weapon, a prosecution Mit brenneder sorge, in English; With burning concern. - [Narrator] This in utmost secrecy. The censorship of the Nazi - [Narrator] The 31st of in all the churches in Germany. Hitler does not react. But from now on, to the eyes of the world, Pius XI appears to be Only, it is not him who when the war begins. Will, then, the Vatican And play its role as defender of humanity while an entire people get exterminated? (speaking foreign language) March 1939, just three In Rome, a new Pope has just been elected. Pope XI died of a heart attack. And the new pontiff is He has chosen the name Pius XII. In reality, his name is Eugenio Pacelli, the Vatican's former number two. This man's entrance into the political battle of his predecessor against Hitler. Because Pius XII himself, is - [Narrator] Except that his Final Solution, this voice of compromise will not suffice. - [Narrator] To accomplish a true industrial process. Jews are arrested by the during big raids. They are brutally packed into And driven towards Poland to on a massive scale, where be gassed to death. This genocide had to In principle, it was impossible these atrocities committed by the Nazis. Except in reality, Pius Because the church, omnipresent in Europe, is a vast network of a Catholic, there is a the Vatican. - [Narrator] But this official proof, the pope will very soon receive. Like in March 1942 with The Jewish World Congress. In this report is a highly detailed index of the exterminations, country by country. The exact figures given show 92,000 Bessarabien Jews executed by the Nazis. Later, the Pope will alarming news. This time, by the Polish In regards to the number by the Germans, we estimate that it has It is primarily the and children who are taken, which is proof that this is but that the deportees are various methods, in for this purpose. All of these reports urge The Pope is seen as the the course of history. - [Narrator] But for the time being, the Pope has decided to keep quiet. He is not the only one to The Allies have also been informed. On December the 17th, and Stalin publish a declaration. A searing text in which the Jews as the target of Nazis. In every country under German occupation, the Jews are being transported on trains in horrific conditions, with The number of victims of are hundreds upon hundreds women and children. We condemn in no uncertain of cold-blooded extermination. Now that the whole world knows, the Pope no longer has a choice, he must speak. A severe, unequivocal On the 24th of December 1942, begins his traditional Christmas speech, an entire people is waiting. But they are going to be disappointed, as Pope Pius XII barely In a lengthy speech of over an hour, the issue of the Jews is during which he does not He alludes simply to the... - [Narrator] So, how to A silence that, once over the Vatican. Pius XII would have been Because in Holland, a few the public condemnation bishops had devastating effects - [Narrator] Amongst the Remember, this German woman had written the famous letter to break his silence. According to certain in Holland would have - [Narrator] But that Something else also paralyzes the Church. The Catholics are not and this is nothing new. - [Narrator] This contempt, the Jews will pay the price for this once But this time, the persecution on the Pope's doorstep. We're in the Jewish ghetto in Rome, in the western part of the city. On the night of the 15th to the sound of German The Gestapo enters the Ghetto through the Via del Portico d'Ottavia. They arrest 1,259 people, The majority of those and will be gassed. Only 15 people will survive. Pius XII, yet again, keeps quiet. No public condemnation. No symbolic gesture of compassion. - [Narrator] Three months of the Jewish ghetto, Rome was bombed, causing 1,600 deaths. At that moment, Pius of the crowds to comfort of whom were Catholic. - [Narrator] Of course, the even inside his own private residences. But he would not publicly his flock to follow suit. However, in Rome, more in convents and monasteries. Risking their lives, Catholics to be saved. In other words, many a message from Pius XII, They - [Narrator] The problem a clear course of action other Catholics then chose the dark side. And this led to mistakes and misconduct. Berlin, in October 1943. Today, a new issue of the biggest Nazi propaganda magazine A newspaper, translated and two and a half and distributed throughout And on the front page this in uniform, standing and the swastika. But this man is not German, he is French. His name, Mayol de Lupe. And even more astonishing the uniform of the Waffen SS, he is first and foremost a Catholic bishop. This man so willingly is proof that Catholicism This is a godsend for the Fuhrer, who takes the opportunity to - [Narrator] Mayol de Lupe is part of this Nazi turning point at the start of the '30s. He has a long-standing and most definitely shares with the Hitlerite regime. But also, he shares this since the Vatican never much more so than it condemns the Fuhrer. - [Narrator] Except Mayol de Lupe, will not just be attracted by Nazism. In the name of anti-Bolshevism, a hand to Hitler, in the the church to finally get rid of the Reds. And soon, he will have We are in the Soviet Union For months, the country has been fighting the bloody German invasion Four million Axis soldiers have invaded the USSR by surprise. But the war is brutal. He is recruiting from all But the French are unwilling. The Fuhrer must find them a solution. - [Narrator] The problem the authorization of the Church. But apparently, one of their bishops not pose any problem. Not for Cardinal Suhard, a close friend of Marechal Petain. He gives him his permission Not even for the Vatican, through Monseigneur Sibilia, He sends him his authorization In October 1941, Mayol de along with hundreds of Their trains are covered &quot;Death to the Jews, Heil Hitler!&quot; At nearly 70 years old the as a military chaplain His mission, to spew out - [Narrator] In total, Mayol three years on the Eastern Front. He then settled in Germany As the Allies arrive, he but is quickly found and arrested. At the end of his trial, four years in prison In theory, with the defeat think that this would somewhat clouded But you will see that, in the fall of Hitler, some in the Vatican will enter organizing the escape of war criminals. We return to Rome, the war is over. The Italians, too, have of the millions of victims of the just-liberated extermination camps. There is utter disbelief. In the Vatican, the Pope nor has he condemned these horrors. And after three years, life It is 1948. A stone's throw from Holy See, this is the Via della We are at number 20, the German Church Santa Maria dell Anima. Monseigneur Alois Hudal lives here. He runs one of the branches of the Assistant Pontifical the end of the war to welcome refugees. - They wanted to help, they and millions of Europeans homeless, displaced persons, It was very chaotic, a very in those years, about more and on the streets, it And so the Catholic Church, the Vatican, the Pope himself realized, We want to do something as well, we want to help these people. - [Narrator] And so, on this day, Alois Hudal hears a knock at the door. It's a refugee coming to ask for aid. His name is Franz Stangl. But this man is by no means He has the blood of hundreds of thousands of Jews on his hands. - His criminal career he was involved in the Austria, and then he was killing center to Treblinka Nazi-occupied Poland, where he became the Commandant of Treblinka. In Treblinka, between 1942 and murdered and he was one of this crime. - [Narrator] After the war, Stangl is arrested and The law is preparing to faces a heavy sentence. So he escapes in May 1948. And so begins his 1,000 kilometer Stangl has heard that is a network that could They have even given him a - He came to Rome and he find this bishop Hudal. But he had no real idea and he didn't even know the And pure coincidence, he a former SS man that he knew, you know, asked &quot;What are you doing here? and he said &quot;I'm looking for and the former SS man could describe him, could tell him how to find Hudal in the Santa Maria dell Anima. - [Narrator] In other words, at the Santa Maria dell Anima Church, Hudal not only helps He also deals with Nazi criminals, and does so with full - He knew that Stangl a Holocaust perpetrator of thousands of people. - [Narrator] It should be is also an admirer of the Nazi regime. - [Narrator] Hudal's specialty for war criminals so that And Stangl is in great It is in the name of the of the Holy See, that Hudal will proceed. This, here, is proof of procured for him. It is a letter written by with the Vatican coat of arms as a header. It is dated the 17th of August, 1948. He is asked to kindly deliver the passport to the following person, Stangl. The request is addressed to At the time, Europe is in such chaos that it is the Red Cross who of providing passports to But to ensure success, a letter like this, with the - We know from witnesses, the Red Cross in Rome, that personally, or went them himself from the Red Cross for a number help. And, of course, in those not say no. How could they refuse the application of a bishop, of a Catholic bishop in Rome? That's impossible. - [Narrator] The result, Hudal hands Franz Stangl his passport. It is his guarantee that he However, this war criminal Because he was bothered by a small detail. - The papers were not really They were issued for So the middle name was Stangl protested, he told the bishop You made a mistake, maybe the Red Cross or not Paul Stangl, it is Franz Stangl. And the bishop Hudal told him, don't worry, it's better to let sleeping realize you're wanted as war criminal. It's better to be Paul because they're looking for Franz Stangl. - [Narrator] But they would not find him, as the former Nazi left Europe and headed to He would not be found for and there he will finally in prison. But Hudal did not help Numerous others also passed Amongst them, the most-wanted Adolf Eichmann, the lead Doctor Mengele, the head And Klaus Barbie, the butcher of Lyon. Was Pope Pius XII aware Impossible to know, as even today, to declassify their records. On the other hand, one It is dated back to 1947 and comes from the American Secret Service. Its author, Vincent La Vista. - He did a very good job, he he figured out how these the mountains, to Tirol very border, and then how they stayed them had contact with former there, and then how to - [Narrator] And what at the heart of the Vatican, there were of being involved in the 22 in total. Many of them bishops. And in very first place, His address and even his Again, it is impossible had any knowledge of this report. But according to experts, - [Narrator] In any case, the At the Vatican, affairs Alois Hudal would resign Even today, Pius XII is All of it, his silence during the genocide but also his refusal to and to explain himself, be in fear of retaliation. It would not be until his death, in 1958, that the people would This is how his will opens. Have mercy on me, Lord, and The knowledge of my weaknesses, failures, and sins committed during in such terrible times, has and my disgrace. I humbly ask forgiveness of all those I have offended, wronged and outraged. (heroic music)