All right, today we're gonna be on Cloud Glider. This is the slowest combo in Waluigi Stadium without me. That is one of my can we super bounce? Oh, I missed the trick. I am This is one of the reasons why I kind of switched start just knock me off the track. And so if we it's just over for me and I have no opportunity to So, yeah, it's just not a good look for very, very you can get away from the pack, then when someone major acceleration. So, look, I have a breakaway be able to just win this race because I have a have more opportunities to catch up as well, just there hitting each other, then I'm totally And I have to get some coins here, taking some weird strats just to make sure I I need all the speed I can get with this combo. big advantages of playing a slow combo is you're up a mini turbo. And okay, my drift didn't shortcut. I probably can take the shortcut Okay, don't be a coin. It's All right, well, that's better than hitting a red Probably. I don't know if the red but we got two defense items again, so this is at winning here. Just hope no one else's Uh, blue shell again. Okay, hold down, hold down, I went off, but that's good, that's good. don't hit me, don't hit me. Yay [laughs] won the can take Baby Rosalina to over 9000 VR. No, no, but I'm just gonna hope there are enough people in good. Oh, triple mushrooms. All right, so one as a baby is there aren't really many turns. And can just go on the half-pipe, so it doesn't really then that would be really great because, uh, Okay, okay, and we were in first for --Oh God, that was so scary. So, okay, I don't know if everyone's gap jumping. But I wouldn't be surprised if I can just that shortcut is probably not worth it. It's can you make this one small? Probably, honestly. Oh, that's so awesome. It's like not even worse speed stat, right? I'm just following through turn small for that long. That was pretty great. right here and maybe use the coin just to Perfect. No, that was such because if I just took the blue shell... I took the blue shell and the shock would not have just the getting small part of it. Oh, booster, Come on, come on. Yes, yes. I had no business that one. Oh no, Rock Rock Mountain. It's just to start snaking. I don't think I'm very good at As long as I can stay in a mini turbo, I can section coming up and, uh, okay, like speed at that. Look at that Dry Bowser just casually Not everyone is privileged with such high-speed get out of the trees though. Whoa, can you trick Oh, this sucks. Waiting on the boost panel Oh, okay, well both are like best-case I was on the boost panel, and the other one, I was of to the side, and I get to keep a lot more of I think I got them. That's awesome. Yeah, because you have to fall for so long. Oh, I have more. Get out of my way. It would be a fool's errand. Oh, no. All right, I actually might have won if I didn't mess that messed up this race. I think I watched Dry Bowser Me and my mom top two. All right, I don't look at this. This is a straight line and I just have to try not to get All right, and, uh, can we get a double item I don't even have this track memorized regularly, All right, and then here we I'm looking forward so much here, way more than far forward, but I'm trying to see where the That was, uh, that would be very risky. Oh, Just trying to run into the taxi. Okay, case. I tried to face away from the green shell Oh, you know what? This track might be okay. and I have a bit of a lead. Wow, I especially not knowing the track. But, I don't even more. We're gonna get two items here, really good choice. The reason I'm doing that is I'm small from the shock, so there's no reason really good decision. The end is right before an right. All right, we might have a me and Off to two disasters. The first one was this this track, but this is not a good track for Baby that I can really, like, charge big mini turbos I'm gonna have to get some coins here in the you're doing on a track, you might as well you'll be going faster than everybody else. So very hard track to drive if you don't have good So you do want to have good acceleration. I Okay, okay, this sucks. Okay, there's We're gonna have to go on this because I'm fourth place. You know what? I was in sixth place fourth, but I'll take it. Can we get a mini turbo Okay, I can actually see potential on this track. get away from people just because I'm scared of shortcut, and you know how I am about shortcuts, All right, so right here I realized Oh no, I hit the tree. Okay, maybe next time I to make sure I don't get bumped. If anyone comes there's a glider here. Wow, okay, I never knew like, if I have any reason to, you know, have to come to a standstill from getting hit. And if you're predicting a shock, then the glider I have a blue shell. Hmm, you know what? maybe let's go And again, I want to stay away from this path again. I'm starting to warm up to Just flying above everybody, no And wreak some havoc around here. Oh, we are in third place, that's really good. That mushroom kind of got I have a mushroom. Um, I think I should go for Red shell, okay, I got that item in second, so there's a pretty good chance Okay, I think Grumble Volcano really works as the world record. I think it's a heavyweight. I happy with this win. I feel like the mini turbo's today. All right, so I'm gonna try the shortcut do a mini turbo trick here too, and I don't So if I can't do the shortcut on lap one, I will can almost get it, but yeah. I'm gonna use lap one be like on mirror mode. Okay, well I guess I'm All right, looks like I can do it. Hi. [laughs] this coin is not going to do me any box, I might want to keep the coin. Yeah, I'll Oh, ah, I tried to get rid of and then so that's why I was facing that way All right, that is my saving Wow, my green shell is actually connected. feel like a good item, right? But then they oh wait, green shells always hit, Couldn't get the double item box or the trick. I'm never going for the first shortcut, but Okay, I messed it up, I messed it up. It's Mushrooms. Oh, and there's a blue shell. Yes, what? The universe just wants me to win of the universe. Oh, okay, okay, it's okay. The the start of this race. I'm gonna end up in Let's get in front. Gonna trail this just Very, very nice shortcut. Whoa, no one's we're in the 8000s. How are you not taking that as clean as I did it on lap one. Oh, okay, well bad. I think if you hit the corner of that wall, did you fail the shortcut, but you are now going the item box. Well, that's not good. Not another Messed up my drift. Thank you Just what happens when you play Baby Rosalina, Oh, you are screwed, you are so screwed. I I told you, it does not matter, the universe wants front run on this course, and it's just a lot more So that's what we're gonna do here. Grab some right here, yes. Grab some coins. Ooh, red shell. rather just, instead of getting in front of you, when I take the gap jump. Oh, I forgot to super I'm doing this gap jump, you can't stop me. I did it wrong. I'm supposed to charge up the would hate to miss the item. Wow, star bullet, are you kidding me? I don't even Okay, that was terrible. I was hoping but apparently it doesn't really mind. But I don't your red shells, I don't want them. Okay, the game Okay, zero gap jumps and I took a giant lead. Whatever, just keep some mushrooms. Um, does this Oh, I didn't see that, I heard it and I was Is this optimal? Okay, can we... boom! I did want a purple mini turbo, you get a purple mini it's not that much longer you have to charge. okay, I have a star for the rest of the I guess the universe doesn't want me to win is can I get these three coins? Nope, first I'm gonna save this mushroom for disasters, like item box, so I managed to get it thanks to One of these days I'm gonna find out if because it feels so dumb, but also like it's gets you right back up to full speed. Oh, Okay, well, Baby Rosalina stuff, I mean, that I'm so far behind all because I kept getting Are you--Am I actually gonna lose? I didn't 200 cc Rock Rock Mountain. Why do I It's Rock Rock Mountain after all. No one being faster. I'm gonna use these coins, spam Bomb, place it right there, everyone Oh, out of the way, I thought I got out Everyone has a star. Okay, it's okay, we're Oh, I went a little too far I wonder if you can--No, there's it's off-road immediately after anyway. And do that. That Link is getting really so I'm kind of worried. Actually, no, they're I didn't just hit a wall, I hit a No, actually, no, this is good. I'm the first one so I actually get to save a lot in a place where I'm not too slow. Please don't How did you... Where you trailing?