Why don't we see certain traits in nature? If evolution is so innovative, if it's powerful whatever this is, etc... then... Why can't humans grow wings and take to Or why don't fish have propellers? Why are there no 5-legged cats or giraffe-sized Why do no animals have wheels? And why haven't zebras evolved machine guns Today, instead of talking about incredible, like we've done so many times before, we're creativity, and why certain traits are impossible There is a myth in evolution that nature is It isn't. Probably. By considering the reasons why certain things evolution actually does work. So yes, while these would all be awesome... I don't make the rules, evolution does. ... stupid evolution. I want a tank zebra. We begin in my childhood nightmares. The 1985 film Return To Oz was one of the flipped the channel to as a young nerd. This unofficial sequel to the 1939 film The than one nightmare thanks in large part to There is something deeply unnatural about feet. Both because it's extremely creepy, and The wheeled animal question is a canonical in evolution, or "forbidden phenotypes". And remember, a phenotype is the observable There are organisms that roll up their entire like pangolins, spiders, tumbleweeds, and things where you're from. Or maybe we could envision an animal rolling in the fantasy series His Dark Materials, and uses them as wheels. But acting like a wheel or using a found object as body parts. No animal uses a rolling wheel body part to And some of the reasons why are pretty obvious: around an axle would be physically separated build in a developing animal. This would also make it impossible to deliver wheeled appendage as well. But there are other less-obvious reasons animals Which brings us here. To a Bronze Age foot soldier, the most terrifying rolling onto the battlefield. Manned by a driver and either an archer or wheeled vehicles to move quickly across the shock and awe weapon of its time from Mesopotamia But by the 6th century AD, the chariot, along had basically disappeared between North Africa How could such a seemingly dominant technology Because wheels had been replaced by camels. This happened for several reasons: The roads had deteriorated. The skill and craftsmanship required to make forgotten. But most simply, in this particular region than wheels when it came to carrying stuff. The camel can travel farther, with less food They can cross rivers and rough terrain easier a person to tend every two animals or so, managed by one person. Likewise, Europeans were stunned to find no and other American indigenous cultures, even Archaeological discoveries show us early American of their own, but beyond water wheels for all that useful or necessary for their particular And this is how chariots and camels and creepy Biological or cultural adaptations depend The best solution to a problem depends on While propellers and spinning blades are an the water, the fins of fish are actually more cases. So, there's no fish with propellers, and aquatic creativity, we don't have boats Likewise, the wheel, as a technology, isn't other ways of moving. The wheel only dominated in certain environments, And even if animals were capable of growing and terrains they would probably work worse Which brings us to a different kind of terrain Here I don't mean fitness like your ability In biology, fitness is essentially a score and reproduce. The wings of birds, bats and even pterosaurs, and fingers. They are an example of convergent evolution, related evolve similar features or phenotypes. You have to go pretty far back to find the but the wings of birds, bats, and pterosaurs essentially the same as yours or mine. One bone up here, two bones here, lots of So theoretically, humans could evolve wings, Actually, no. When a trait evolves, every stage of its evolution at least not be harmful. Even if the final trait, like humans flying lots of new advantages, we would have to be every step is beneficial. You can't evolve anything that reduces your A fitness landscape is a way to look at a versus one another. Each square represents a variation or genetic The closer the squares, the more similar two the more different they are. The fitness of each genetic possibility is Here's the problem. You can only ever move uphill, toward higher There may be a highest peak, with the best there because you'd have to travel down Evolution is walking around this landscape so organisms often get stuck on top of these They're as good as they can be without getting The human eye is a perfect example of a local If the optic nerve and the eye's blood vessels we wouldn't have a blind spot in our vision. This is how octopus eyes are built and it's But we can't jump all the way to that higher we'd make our eyes worse in the meantime. Likewise, if we wanted to have wings like to wings would have to provide a benefit. When the first birds were evolving from raptor-like mates. So they could use them to glide like flying And each tweak and variation would help them the way to powered flight... at the top of For humans, variations in our hands or arms wouldn't really improve our fitness right But having dumb wing hands would have a lot tools. So even if being able to truly fly would be steps can't evolve if they mean moving down And this is why zebras don't have laser Zebras would clearly benefit from evolving but they can't because the intermediate least not harmful. A laser turret or machine gun or bazooka is The intermediate, functionless laser organ loss. And sure, projectile weapons have evolved Like archerfish that hunt by spitting water, weapon. But if you're prey, running away might just optimum without laser turrets. Evolution works like trying to make improvements of a race. You can't break your engine in order to Of course, I'm not willing to give up my Maybe there's another way humans could grow Why can't we just grow a new set of limbs? You can imagine this strategy working for Entire body segments could be duplicated thanks body develops, and poof: you've got a new Mutations in a class of body-patterning genes feet, hands, skulls, and even extra fingers In very rare cases humans are even born with three arms. But almost always, these duplicated limbs needs bones, joints, its own muscles and nerves, countless other mutations in other genes. That's beyond unlikely. Evolving wheels instead of feet, or finding hands into wings like a bat, is difficult But at the end of the day there also has to something because it's cool. This is perhaps the worst car ever made in The Trabant had a 25 hp two-stroke engine a plastic body, no fuel door, no rear seatbelts, Although their design changed little from ceased, more than 3 million were sold. That's because this was one of the only Before the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, there was no competition from other car manufacturers For natural selection to happen an organism its survival, what we call a selection pressure. The East German lawnmower sedan never had forcing it to improve, so it continued to Sauschlecht! Until humans experience a selection pressure that lead towards flight. And sometimes selection pressures can be so for evolution to even act on. The dodo had no adaptations for defending or other predators, and well, we all know But beyond all these principles of evolutionary face is physics. PHYYYYYYYSICCCCSSSSSS!!! The reason we don't see gigantic land animals of two pesky bits of physics. One, gravity. You're probably familiar with that one. Personally it's how I stay so down to Earth. Heh. Two, the square-cube law. As an organism gets bigger, its volume increases So as something grows and gets more and more of surface that you have will become less shape to make more surface. This is the reason big complex organisms like single-celled amoeba blobs. That wouldn't provide enough surface area for all of our big blobby volume. So instead our bodies are made of 37 trillion It's the only way to have enough surface Gravity and the square-cube law combined is get land animals weighing more than 100 tons. It's also the reason if you're ever given or 100 duck-sized horses, you should pick duck legs would snap like toothpicks under And the limitations of physics are not just Calculations of how gravity affects the flow a tree could ever reach on Earth is 130 meters. And sure enough, the tallest tree we know However, a different physical environment Blue whales, the largest animals to ever live buoyancy provided by their watery environment Therefore, on different planets with lower we might be able to see bigger animals. For instance, 300 million years ago the concentration higher than it is today (reaching as high And insects which don't have lungs and circulatory just diffusing into their bodies--were able Dragonflies the size of birds? Not thankyou sir. For all of nature's creativity, a few empty seemingly can't grow. What we call impossible phenotypes, that as of Earth. Like freshwater coral reefs, or birds that Or plant-eating snakes. I mean, there are thousands of species of You'd think one would take advantage of ignoring and go vegetarian! Snakes' closest relatives, lizards, many I mean, making the switch from a meat eating Well, barely. But maybe there's something about how a enough energy from plants. Of course maybe we just don't know. For a long time it was believed that all spiders eats plants. It's difficult to say things are totally Given more time, evolution may well produce Imagine if alien evolutionary biologists studied Flowering plants, flying insects, animals may have seemed like impossible phenotypes So while there are limits to what evolution wings or animals with wheels, we don't really as a whole. Like... what about animals with an odd number I don't mean three limbs like Simone's A three legged dog is a four legged animal issue. Or a 5-limbed animal like a starfish--radial would prevent odd numbers of limbs. I mean a three-limbed animal like a dolphin. Think about it. How many "legs" does a dolphin or whale Their fins have two lobes, and their prehistoric intents and purposes couldn't we consider three limbs? Does that mean kangaroos and their powerful functionally speaking, 5-limbed animals? Are snakes one-limbed animals? In these cases, although they are rare, there number of limbs or limb-like appendages to a pretty remarkable leap. For all the rules and impossibilities we've able to mold and create are pretty impressive. Instead of looking at what nature hasn't has been. Stay curious. We're still not gonna grow