To start, I had hoped to work in this quote from the United States, and there has always been. constant thread winding its way through our the false notion that democracy means that 'my This quote is from 1980, and it's been echoed who spoke about the public being unable to and having no ability to set their own agenda celebration of ignorance. He said that in 1995. this has gotten in the 21st century, with people validity of basic arithmetic. This anti-science contrarian message is bought en masse, no matter are witnessing a multimodal anti-science empire moving towards state-sanctioned pseudoscience. harmful this can be. We have history to under Stalin was widespread. Lysenko was scientific position under Stalin's regime, relativity were evil. He denied the existence he promoted a pseudoscientific practice called a result of crop failures. Scientists who refused executed. Are we at risk of repeating such events? win the election. Could he bring a Lysenko-like real scientists? Absolutely. Will he try to to the point of authoritarianism? Probably. And him try to do that. I won't go into detail about real plan to move America into the first stages of This is the evil upon our doorstep, and while it Terrence Howard, we should recognize that it's Anti-science sentiment does not arise out of more complicated and therefore difficult for out due to the discomfort this produces. But promoting this mentality stemming from Republican populace that is not only science illiterate but change is in the interest of energy producers. interest of Christian theocrats. These efforts the Koch brothers. I'm not saying Terry is funded attitude of reality denial and hostility toward that now has people questioning 2nd grade math. science, one must popularize the notion that the places where you gain knowledge, are evil. figure out how to resist our brainwashing, and structures. Universities are famously places so they must be demonized. It is a successful have a reason to not learn anything and cling to It goes without saying that religion is a because scientific progress, particularly as of such as immaculate divine creation. This triggers and they lash out in precisely the same physical violence, with hostility and tribalism. issue, it has at this point completely not a Democrat and I no longer vote Democrat as it does not have the best interests of the party is cartoonishly apocalyptic in comparison. all science, actively pushing us back into authoritarian control by the church. In the wake be given a voice is preposterous. He is not the in place. He does not deserve a platform. He is of the figures with any kind of expertise that ulterior motives as well, and only serve So let's get down to brass tacks. What It boils down to three principles. 1) Religious 2) Populist anti-elitism, or the rejection of the belief that pursuit of knowledge only movement intends to halt the acquisition of new and privilege. Misinformation that benefits who speak truth to that power are preemptively is not completely blameless, admittedly. Part of increasingly high cost of education. But this is sanctity of centers of knowledge. Corporations when the public can not even identify thus perpetuating their own subjugation. We can the tobacco industry, and so forth, but we do Politicians, corporations, and religious promoting anti-intellectualism. They enact the things like climate change so severely that simply This spills over into the social realm just as or the same blind allegiance to a governing body This is the reason for equating Black Lives "fascism", and the justification for this always This in turn is used to justify a militarized And lastly, anti-intellectualism promotes while demanding that people blindly follow People who fall into this way of thinking will the body of knowledge produced by tens of the world under every type of government yet they place absolutely zero scrutiny on the they enjoy, which are riddled with distortion and find comfort in the strength and confidence beliefs. That's why Trump famously stated that he and he wouldn't lose any voters. Because their In the end, and here comes Dave the broken record, single greatest threat facing mankind. obviously satirical, the manner in which the any existential threat was depicted magnificently. than a comet coming to kill us all. And yet, brainwashed into believing the comet didn't exist, In my estimation that is roughly what would happen some other such situation. And the culprit is and demagogues who abuse the power of the internet Rogan are not the main culprits but they also criticism for amplifying the chaos for monetary sources of disinformation and promoting general solution to this doomsday recipe. I don't know be either less corrupt and manipulative, my youthful optimism has been diminished as I