- Jamie Dimon, thank you with us today. I spent a lot of time this and my biggest takeaway a very clear sense of what's good for the economy, and what's good for J.P. Morgan. What is the biggest threat in your mind to that confident vision? - So every year when I write what are the most important the free Western world, the most is that, you the terrorist activities in that's drawing between Russia, the difficulties of our age with China, that whole thing is challenging. But you know, we would call the free Democratic Western world and that to me is the most important thing that - Well, I wanna come back to minute, but right now I on the economy. - As the chief exec of you have an unrivaled insight of the US consumer. What are people doing with - So you have to look at The consumer's in pretty Unemployment's under 4% has They still have excess money from Covid. If you go back to looking that was spent during that basically went through various means they're still spending it down. If you look at the bottom 50% of income, they pretty much spent the excess. So the kind of back to where they were, the top 50% still is excess, stock prices are up, jobs going up at the low end, the shape because of that businesses too, because people The one thing you gotta be cautious about, a lot of it's driven by - Mm-mm. - So even today, the deficit almost $2 trillion, that's And that will have other road, you know, called inflation, which may not go away like people expect. So when I look at the range of you can have that soft landing, that it may not be so quite go away. People expect, I'm not I'm talking about 25 and 26. The rates may have to I'm talking about the 10 year and you know that we can have - But right now you describe and yet we know consumers Why this disconnect? Well you have to look at So the bottom 20% of America well over the last 20 years, They're actually starting in almost 20 years. Remember suicide, there are a lot of negative effects. Some people can't get, Their jobs are still paying. You know, I think 25% of an hour or less. So yeah, there's part of society there's part of society a different issue about how But you know, you can see And then you see a whole you know, people look in the world, they're worried about geopolitics, they're worried about politics, they're worry about polarization. So you have a disconnect and as you said, confidence levels. - So just to go back to the concede you were on the hawkish side, but then things played out But you are still, it's a You yourself sound quite - Yeah. - Can you tell us a bit - Yeah, so I'm not looking at a year and I'm not making a what are the range of possible outcomes? And last year and this the same issues. Huge amount of fiscal we don't really fully part of it might be inflation. A lot of things in the the green economy obviously the deficits, which you know, basically aren't gonna go away And so it puts me in this all that puts me on the side of caution that things may not go Again, that's not a 24 So I think I said in my letter, the market kind of prices in And so therefore the odds of is 65%, et cetera. And so, you know we'll see. But I don't really know, you I try to be prepared for all of that, it's just a little cautious, like the seventies to me. And I point out to a lot of people, things look pretty rosy in 1972, they were not rosy in 1973. So don't get lulled into 'cause the today looks okay, so just trying to separate the two. - Sticking with today - Partially? You know, when you spend you're gonna have growth. And you know, I think if you parts of it where we needed some of it, like some of the industrial policy, I think the infrastructure that was bipartisan. You know, other things So, and I think some of the it like, what are they getting? - Mm-mm. So if you go to rural I'm not sure they feel like by this economy. - Do you think Jerome as chairman of the Fed? - I have tremendous respect was probably late in raising rates. They caught up, they're And watching right now, we you might as well wait. It's very hard to forecast the Fed they should stop forecasting. I mean, obviously the data makes a statement, you They say &quot;No matter what the Well they can't, so they But you know, they may have and we also don't know Again, I'm a little more on You know, most people that you can reduce the balance dollars and its effect will not be felt. I'm not so sure we've never had it before. So it's never really been tested. And the one time they at one point it did in the marketplace, I - So if we go back a year, with the mini banking crisis. Wasn't the first time you'd because in 2008 of course and Washington Mutual. How did the experience, the your approach to last It didn't at all. I mean, that was, 08 was a real crisis, Bear Stearns was a much more complicated and so was WAMU within this one. This was much simpler, we because only a handful of of concentrated deposits, too et cetera. And so I said it was the don't go up and there's 'cause if that happens, obviously so it was a completely different thing. We wouldn't have done it if it didn't help stabilize the system, just for ourselves. I point out in the letter, just the financial side 10,000 people on day future looking projects, projects to consolidate 165 et cetera. Though it was a simpler bank was just using our own capital liquidity. I tell people, you don't have and thousands of people assets to do the same thing. So part of it had nothing So the financial results are nice, but we would try to be honest - So how's the integration - Good, it's doing great. You know, it's obviously Most, it would be done by the end of May, so you might see some customer complaints because when you do the big obviously certain things can some small things go wrong, it'll be completely done. - Switching tack now to geopolitics, we've got wars going on in the Middle East and in Europe that of economic uncertainty, if we focus first on the Middle East. Do you think that the US war is the right one? - I think Israel has the I think war is a terrible thing. I think people have to be you know, and when they deaths and all the things like that, so I don't know the I think the notion that they aren't gonna defend themselves is wrong. So I'll leave the military what's the right way to go do that? Every general I see on TV, and I've spoken to several, you know, city conflict is really bad. - And you know it's door of civilian casualties, you there was gonna be quite a By the way it's unjustifiable so I wanna be clear about that. - And then we've got a war you know, Ukraine clearly What would it mean for Russia was to win? - It could be, again, I'm it could be a potential disaster because you know this is free democratic nation invaded by two or 300,000 Russian of nuclear blackmail. So, you know, we've never which is also teaching the whole world. You know, maybe having a nuclear because people will be afraid of union. You can, you know abuse a it would be on the border of NATO. You know, obviously NATO but the other thing is So all military alliances, The nexus of Iran, North Korea, and China makes it very hard, in my view, for the Chinese American relationship because we're kind of on They say they're neutral, or not, we are clearly not neutral. If Russia wins, I personally, of people deciding that, you for Europe? Can you rely on them? And if you can't rely on And that includes economically, talk about the economic So economically, every nation should say what makes me secure, what and all the things I need. So I'm a little worried that you're gonna see kind of the world kind of enter a little bit of chaos and economic relationships, et cetera. The tell thing is, is after the Marshall Plan, the all these structures are put to a very safe, secure lifted billions of people outta There are a lot of small wars, but basically peace among You know, if that's torn it's gonna be replaced with. - Well, I thought that was of your letter where you're for this new global architecture big thinking that, you from world leaders. Can you tell us a bit more about what that architecture might look like? Give us an example of - Yeah, so I'm not sure it to go back and see what But I look at the Western should be kept together and of the world. So, you know Bob Gates writes in his book, &quot;A Symphony of Power&quot; that we've overused and maybe misused our military muscle. We've underused economic, intelligence, development, finance, diplomacy, So, you know we need American leadership. It should be done with our allies. It can't be done, you know it can't be done. You know, America's known to, of a situation, which we trade development, finance, and then, you know, which clearly some don't work. And you can debate any which one you want, but, so you know to get trade I would reenter the TPP. I think our government's gonna I remind them we have So when they say we can't talk trade, well you already have it. Why can't you talk about making it better? And of course, the TPP would economically great, geo our allies will love it and And then you can also negotiate with China from a better position of strength. So you're not trying to you just wanna set it up for the free and democratic world and it looks like a lot of these folks would like to destroy everything we can to - So China's complicated, obviously, because on the one hand we the supply chains are integrated. But at the same time, we reported recently that China is aiding and there's now a proposal by the US to sanction Chinese banks. What do you think of How should the US approach China? - You know, I would tell We have all the foodborne and the Pacific, no wars in The gifts of the founding which I write about in in terms of people, ideas, innovation, entrepreneurship, 80,000 per person GDP, China imports 11 million Their very complicated are causing all their neighbors to re-arm, Philippines, Japan, Korea, Not because of America, they're scaring their neighbors. Their GDP per person is $15,000 they have had good innovation, which, you know God bless them. And they rely on 11 million I believe half which or the Traits of Hormuz, which are guarded by American warships. So, you know we're in We have to restructure trade kind of a no-brainer, like don't like to cry, but spilled milk. But anything that we need you know the ingredients semiconductor, you know and related where it might be you could put AI in there and Obviously we should or something like that. I would engage with China, I would have very tough conversation about what we're not willing to do. I would do it with our allies in mind. Not, you know, America our way So when we did the IRA but it clearly was by America and it really irritated a lot of them. - Mm-mm. - And I don't want to tear us under the economic relationships be very thoughtful, they need oil and gas. So the L&amp;G I think is very So I would negotiate and I'm glad they're doing it. So if you listen to Tony Janet Young, they're starting and they should be quite what we want, and we You know, they may have and legitimate complaints As long as Ukraine is there to aid a bet, I think to have a great relationship with them. And I think you know, that And you know, I don't some of these reports. I'm glad the government has the authority to do certain things if in are true. Yeah, they should do some sanctions. - Right? - But they should expect - I want to turn now to domestic matters and the forthcoming election. We're in the very unusual what a Trump presidency looks like, we know what a Biden Who's the best candidate - Okay, I'm not gonna go into And whoever is president, you I really would hope that to reach out to the other side. You know, that Trump would put some Democrats in his cabinet, Republicans in the cabinet. I would like them to put a Not just academic, but in the real world, and to get policies right and the world and that's - How about you as one of the experts? I know you are sure your name of a new Fed Chairman. - I would not do Fed I don't think I'd ever - You travel a lot, you around the world. What are you hearing from the forthcoming election? - Most of them understand for Pax Americana and how is for them and how divisive They wanted to be mature, polite. They want it to be all encompassing. They wanted to help the global South a little bit but they want American leadership. And America has a lot of allies. And if we reach our handout, a lot of people are gonna take that hand. And you know, even the so that's what we should be very intelligently. I think that battle line in - Mm-mm. - That is the fight for democracy. I hope America's learned the We need a very strong (indistinct) non, and that if that gonna get closer to all of our allies and we will have to defend them. And if we don't defend them, one day. So you know we've learned we learned them in 1917, and so I hope we don't. - Still on the election, they don't just disagree with him, they think he's a threat to stability, he's a threat even to democracy, - I obviously hear all that stuff. We shouldn't ascribe why they're voting for They're doing it for different reasons than a very simple thing. Some do it 'cause they regulations are better or they all different reasons. I think people should Take a deep breath, try to, and think about it's good of the country and that's - You listen, you go on your what do you hear? I've asked you, what do you What do you hear when you - People are worried, you the economy's pretty good, And like I said, there that their groups of people are angry. Now it doesn't mean it doesn't mean they're exactly right, but I think we should listen to 'em more. Now why are inner city schools failing? Why have incomes didn't America grew at one, I for 20 years. I think that's anemic, I think You know, and why can't we do a better job for our veterans and veterans fans? Why can't we do a better you graduate high school, even if you don't graduate, that get you a job making $50,000 or more. They're all there, it all can be done. They can all be fixed and I had the letter from you know the bureaucracy. He realized he helped create that in his own words that I didn't realize the what it does for jobs and the growth of a business He says it's, you know, who fell in front of And how costly it's like There are bureaucracy, our you know, demonizing business. I mean, I think there's a and so I'm hoping people do it. - Like might you ever No, I don't think I'm a politician, so. - Okay, you're not a politician, but you are a chief executive a lot of pressures with the job. You had a near death before. - With your aortic tear and before that you'd had a big cancer scare. How did those experiences change you? - The cancer scare was cancer. - Yeah. I probably have a little And I think it's hard to I'm gonna use a word, lay of reporter, Julia Baird I read it, something she wrote in Australia about you try to live life a So nothing, it's not like I love my job, I love my So nothing really changed that way, but it is a little more deliberate, you know and what's better for the world and you know, more things do change a little bit. And I still go into denial, like, and then someone reminds I did go through that stuff. So when I was being wheeled for the dissection, I and I didn't have any regrets. So you know, 'cause people always said, do you have regrets? I said, no, I love my they were all there. But no, the only thing I would say, I do wanna help this country and the world and the free maybe that changed a little bit. - Yeah, I mean another through was the 2008 banking crisis for different reasons obviously, but what lessons did you when you were taking J.P. - Yeah, so people ask I didn't really learn about it's like you have to you have people say, &quot;What So I always believed, I always ranges of outcomes I was And you know, of course and I saw a lot of crises and we had companies go and the market fell, was So I was kind of used to that. And so the risk committee met five times a day. And instead of it being a little bit more of a structured meeting, I'd say, Emma, you got a problem. You bring whoever you bring 'em up, have 'em wait outside. And they would meet at 5:00 AM, and any time call people people work seven days a Remember we have thousands of even before Bear Stearns governance by the way. So the lesson is be prepared beforehand and have a functioning, and stuff that all they And I remember flying city stock was collapsing, I got back just to, I just to be there. I basically spent the next three days, twirling my thumb, right? But I had to be there. - And so just being and also reacting quickly, in the room, having the taking quick decisions. - And now, I mean there a new, I wouldn't call it a crisis, but there's a new challenge facing banking and that's in the shape of AI. How do you think that's gonna - I think there's a lot, so So, you know, and I don't know We're kind of straight line too much time guessing in redoing it. We have a hundred and just in research on AI, synthetic data, you know looking at data. And also we put AI and data together because they're directly related. We now have someone at a very capable woman who And then inside each business you know, AI and data people consumer, asset management, et cetera. We run 400 use cases on our own data. We're testing LMS on our It's used for risk, fraud, marketing, idea generation, handling of errors. We're building agents which So, you know, you might we know what it is, it'll actually decide to send you a new debit any person, we know what and you, we should learn it. And to me it's just and as a management team, every Yeah, what are you doing? So the the other trick getting people saying, how can I use it? And once they start using it, and it will be exceptional. It'll create jobs, it'll it'll make everyone more productive, it'll be used by bad guys. So we already do things like, we know who you are and We actually identify Bad guys can take one second and fool our voice recognition system, so we have to make ours We don't use voice just so your It's just one of many you're the person you say you It will change a lot of I think it'll cure cancer. I mean I've already seen new molecules to hit specific cancer cells in a way the human brain you know, it's reading better than a radiologist can read it now. It'll take data from your your RNA, your DNA which it knows if you had measles and mumps and all these things what you might have next and Your kids kids will never have cancer, you know? So, and that's a great thing. Technology the other thing it's always done great things for mankind with some downside planes - Yeah. - You know, for steam engines and fire burnt down buildings, you know, and then we fed fire engines and it's gonna be kind of - Yes, yes. With mixed results, but - It's still not good, you can. - Yeah, but if you all go to Bing or something like that, you make up a thing, have and so think of JP Morgan. We have huge amounts of data that we can use to do Marketing systems, ops, safety, security, idea generation, et cetera. So we announced something which is effectively that the Wall Street Journal can come in and say, we want to contact these kind, you won't know the names, These kinds of people to - Mm-mm. - And you know, at one point - So this is the absolute of digital technology how the world's gonna change. But at the same time, something very old fashioned branches, physical bricks to reach communities, - Yeah, so since I got and J.P. Morgan in 2004, not bricks. - People were closing that a year profit. Remember the goal in because we're guessing about the future. The goal in life is to satisfy you, 'cause you're the customer who uses our products and services. And so we still have almost to branches, you know, in spite you know, of 60% or I've still are open in the branch. People like to visit their money. The branches are much more advice today. So I'll tell you about one So in that branch in the it was mostly operations, taking deposits. But now it's advice, investment advice, mortgage and it's eight or nine people. So it's morphed into something different, but it's still valuable to the consumer. And also remember when we with private banking business we help the local community. They like that, you know, And so the community branch They're bigger, we hire So it's a local community. When we have food or The building of the branch, by local people. And then we hold financial and dads and kids about saving money, gain a mortgage during a business and they've been great and You know, I'm doing local press, so I'll be doing like the and wherever you go, they're you know, gets the word And then we started the community manager, so every branch had a branch manager. These branches had a community to run the branch, but to and little leagues and and synagogues and invite people So we now have 150 community Community managers who and you know, and generating business. - What do you ask the managers - Who's walking in, what's What's slowing you down? I always love to ask, stupid stuff we do? Just lay it on me because and even if you weren't yesterday, you probably invented a new one today. And then we change it, what would you do if you ran the branch and what would you do differently? You know, sometimes you get ideas like, well I changed the hours, you know, nine to five, from eight to 10, you know, whatever. So we learn, we always learn. It's amazing when you go, spawned advancing black skills initiatives, has spawned it's spawn virtual call centers, because of what we did in Detroit. So now we're doing that in And so you learn a lot when - Now you've been chief exec for 18 years and you're obviously in But even the most powerful people, powerful leaders need checks and balances, who keeps you in check? - Well, my wife would probably But I think my management team, we're all very open, I emote to them, you know, do it elsewhere. They emote back, you know, you're wrong. You didn't read it properly, so it's a very open conversation. I don't think any of those you know, and there's very little after the fact conversation like, okay, I didn't wanna mention they're brave enough to And you know, I've had of 'em come in and say, Jamie, Sit down, we wanna explain it okay, lay it on me. So you try to create a And then also, you know, we press. So we get, believe me, we get of people even in the when sometimes it's wrong and I always start by saying, Like dividing into so maybe there's something even though we think the Separate the two, don't just to every complaint you get. - Just to bring it back the current news cycle with in America. Do you think that's the sort of thing that chief execs like you or make statements as a company on. - The answer is yes. If it's appropriate and So, you know, in my letter full throated red-blooded, patriotic, free enterprise capitalist and I also acknowledge that we've There's nothing wrong and trying to do something about it. So, you know, we do a little bit of both. And so I think it's very hard sometimes is when you look at certain laws and they're passing legislation saying you gotta support this. But if you read and which of these laws got, we you and I would agree with with the others. So we're being asked to I said, no, we're not doing that. So we'll support the LGBT community. We'll support free, fair, safe voting. I don't have to get involved that every state's put in some are tougher than others, but most of 'em generally, you know, are free, fair and safe and so you gotta be a little careful. But when it comes to defending our people, absolutely we're gonna do it. - When it comes to lifting absolutely. We think lifting up, you I remind people J.P. Morgan reaches out, we're in a hundred countries, we reach out to 12,000 businesses, 80 million states, hospitals, the military. We hire vets, we hire disabled, to disadvantaged communities. And I mentioned that and they generate business You know, if you can take, I always say, and I we use Detroit as example. If Detroit was a failing a failing city, that's good for the rest of America and it's good for Detroit, we happen to be the so it's obviously good for us generally. And so, you know, we work on it. We also work I always think is is, it's one thing for me to, we do skills initiatives the CEO jobs council in New and we've helped hire, you and we're doing programs with the mayor and the Department of Education chancellor in the high schools now, all started by my wife by the way. But we also, and I think get involved in public policy. We can do all that we the public education system the FA system better, the highway safer, the bridge is safer, and so I do think business policy as appropriate. - So you're often asked, And your answer is often in five years. - Yeah. - No, I stopped saying that. So first of all, it's we've got wonderful people. We've always said, I'm who has a president in place And not many people could say that. And if you spoke to the they would say they're they would be very comfortable You know, they're being moved They're very good, they're the board will decide. I think I would tell you best, am I all, I shouldn't do it, I should move on at that point. But you know, I still have and I still think I'm you do gain wisdom as you get older. And hopefully you can and my country through this perch. - So I've got some final questions here, they're short questions - Oh, okay. - How many days should - Five is ideal. There are some jobs where, or two at home is fine, - Are Americas downtowns dead? - No, I think some are 'cause their own policies, but no. - If you're a young person at J.P. Morgan, what should - It almost doesn't matter 'cause you're looking for You know, if you took history or not. But I do think in business your business, which is accounting and learn a little bit basic business. So I think it would help to do accounting, finance markets, something like that. - On the rare occasion what do you do? - So my daughters have said to me, &quot;Dad, you need some more hobbies.&quot; I love my family, so we when I'm around. We have mostly Sunday but I told 'em, here's my hobbies. And we do a lot of this we take vacations together. I love wine, I love music, I love history. Actually I try to exercise every day. You know, I just started which I'm still worried but I was doing my - So you say you love music, - Almost all. - All. - Eclectic - Rock, Jazz. Jazz is the only one I don't, it doesn't resonate for some reason. But you know, I grew up with classical, I grew up playing classical piano, I can play the guitar a little bit. I'm gonna pick that up So I love Elton John, Bruce Beatles, you name it. - What's your morning routine? - Okay, I wake up usually at 4:35. I read five papers, you'll be happy to hear in a very specific form. So I flick through the post, I read the front page any story that I find very interesting and the business section, and the editorials, I think at the editorials there that front section, beginning to what they're saying or section, which isn't great. Then I read the Wall Street next and then the FT and because all the other ones and you know, we operate So the FT gives you a better I read The Economist every weekend of what's going on in and the Middle East and is unbelievably well done, FT So I love it if you know Then I do a lot of other both internal mail, Axios, you know, Politico, stuff like that. So I like reading, I'll do but then I like to get a little exercise and go into the office, so. - And do you ever switch off your phone? - I am not a fanatic on the phone. I don't even have it but I think people should spend a little more time thinking, When my exercise, I'm either doing music or watching some stupid So, but I'm not a fan, I'm Every year I test it, I go to see what everyone else is doing. You know, reels and Instagram and then I click out of it. - Never attempted. - No. Well, Jamie Dimon, thank - Emma, it was a pleasure, thank you.