6 a.m: Day is breaking Venice lies between sea and sky. Slowly, the sunlight warms the walls. The town sleepily stretches her limbs. Little by little, Venice awakes. Life resumes in this town like no other. Venice is not easily accessible. You have to take her slowly, follow her byways And yet in the early morning, the proud maritime city It is a rare brief moment. It's rush hour for the delivery men. They have to have finished before their routes have become too busy. And rubbish removal Then the sun may rise on Venice and the show can begin. Venice became established the better to defend itself. Between the islands, the main channel of communication the Grand Canal. Along its sides, both small and large. The buildings of Venice They stand on a veritable forest saturated with salt water. For centuries, and attempted In the early days, There were just a few Today, the town has more made of different materials Whether they're made of metal, the bridges guarantee In Venice, there is nothing However, some of them A few are private. Others have kept the original with no parapet. The history of Venice is written in stone. The founders of the town and its barbarian invasions. It soon became a link By combining skills and intelligence, Everything bears witness which first caught up By assimilating the different cultures it gradually created its own style The inverted cone chimneys from falling on the wooden roofs. Venice is not simply a prestigious It is a real town whose numbers are ever decreasing. In the 15th century, Today there are about The others have been discouraged Native Venetians Enrico Ricciardi is one of them. [Italian spoken audio] There are not many [Italian spoken audio] I think there are about ten or 11,000 and still living in Venice. [Italian spoken audio] It's a wonderful town, It's complicated, [Italian spoken audio] In fact, the whole town [Italian spoken audio] Over 20 million tourists Like Venetians, they have to cope, with one of the town's main difficulties, transport. [Italian spoken audio] And if you think about it, when you have to carry from your home in any other town, you have a car waiting ready to go. In Venice, with or without luggage, you have to take a boat. On the lagoon, an expressway is marked out to take you to the airport. You also have to get a boat to go or to get to the station. It takes experience and a lot of skill to pilot a boat in Venice. There are large numbers and their dimensions The result is that that require delicate maneuvering. Owning your own boat The main difficulty There are very few Venetians who, So you have to fall back The Vaporetto is a sort of bus But there are other ways The water taxi is particularly and every activity There are boats Undertakers. And the post office. There's the Black Mariah. And the police have speedboats and jet so they can catch reckless drivers. Speed is strictly limited, and the police have speed Giordano. [Italian spoken audio] At the moment, we're measuring the where the limits currently Seven kilometres an hour, 11 kilometres an hour Despite the policeman's fears, there are infringements The culprit always has an explanation, but the police also have their arguments. [Italian spoken audio] And the main traffic problems in Venice are obviously due to the [Italian spoken audio] and also the speed because boats moving and the waves cause instability. This is dangerous, particularly for smaller vessels [Italian spoken audio] Some waves could cause The traghetto is a boat across the Grand Canal. The famous gondola is always associated with the image of Venice itself. Records show that gondolas as the end of the 11th century. The flat bottomed asymmetrical hull allows it to be propelled Standing at the stern, the gondolier moves Gondoliers sometimes utter strange sounds. Ahoy is in a way the Motor boats are like cars The gondola goes ahoy and it has priority over motorboats. [Italian spoken audio] Igor Vinyotto is one of the 425 They have many different skills. Tourists often ask us to sing. That's not a problem for me. But 90% of gondoliers don't want to sing. So if I sing, the other gondoliers Otherwise their passengers Gondolas used to be sumptuously decorated and painted in bright colours. But things have changed. The gondolas are black. The color has been since the 1630 Law However, on the inside, We can put lions, seahorses, angels. On mine, for example, I've written my granddaughter's name, Aurora. [Italian spoken audio] The gondoliers uniform and yet it has no historical origin. Giampaolo Desta. We used to wear the Navy, a real sailor's jacket that It was white in spring and summer, Then, with the increasing this uniform came into being [Italian spoken audio] Why don't you always wear your hat? It's windy today, The gondolier has to have He can also serve as a guide. That terrace on the roof It's peculiar to the 1700s. In those days, women lightened their hair by exposing it to the sun. And they did that on those terraces, the L'Altana A gondola lasts on average It depends on how well There are still five gondola known as Squero. This is an old Squero, It's where the gondolas are built A gondola is made up A few enthusiasts collect Germano Dapprada. [Italian spoken audio] They're mainly working boats. When they can't be used anymore, Because unfortunately, in Venice, there's no room to keep them. The traditional gondolas but some dating back like the hearse gondola. There also used to be the gondolas a sort of cabin that was quite useful. Here at the front, there's the door equipped with an opening that you could close with a screen [Italian spoken audio] So that means that inside the owner had a comfortable [Italian spoken audio] That was very useful but also for business meetings. [Italian spoken audio] The gondoliers or pivots on the rowlock, a sort of fork carved from a single What you see here Old rowlocks that were really used. The rowlock is adapted to Without this accessory, it is impossible to move A few rare craftsmen still make oars and Saverio Pastore. [Italian spoken audio] When the Venetians came to the islands, the first inhabitants [Italian spoken audio] Somebody started to make oars, more and more sophisticated row locks. To start with, they were flat. Now they're more complex. They changed during the last century. [Italian spoken audio] So each curve has its own function, here for getting underway here, with one oarsman or several oarsmen to come along side on the right Traditions sometimes undergo adaptations. The first Rialto Bridge was made up side by side. The Rialto was built and for a long time, was the only bridge It was high enough to allow It replaced a wooden bridge where merchants had been used Instead of depriving the town decided to incorporate A question of hard cash as the city didn't want to the shopkeepers who had lost out. The district was quickly inhabited because the canal bank than the water level. Hence the name Rialto High Bank. Around the Rialto, bear witness to the very The mallet strikes a leather These are the working who reduces the metal The gold leaves are then formatted and handled with wooden instruments so that they don't stick to the fingers. This is work of infinite delicacy on a material almost as light as air. The gold leaf is used by, Sarah Mists, cabinet makers, Another craft tradition Since the 16th century, where the Jews have settled. The word ghetto means and the term has been Buildings had to be high, because the area allotted Because of the lack of space, the Jewish community of Venice In some quarters, Venetians second hand goods. It must be said that in craft work, and as far as most of the the city is not short of resources. A passing customer or a regular client, a wily expert or occasional amateur, everyone gets a kick out of it. Enrico has his stall here. I sell books Mainly. I have a lot on Venice. Old books. But I also have other sorts of books. And I have some in English and French. These are stencils. The artist is Brunelleschi, a great painter from [Italian spoken audio] Taken from a book by Casanova. Their inspiration is very and a little French too. They're very attractive In its very special setting, supplying Venice has always This is why the Rialto market Several markets come together there. In the market, you find all sorts But all are imported. Even produce that That obviously has an effect on prices, particularly on artichoke hearts. On the site of a former palace, because its owners The fish market, The shrimps from the lagoon In winter particularly, shrimps that are grey mixed with tiny octopus and squid. [Italian spoken audio] In Venice, the sea feeds, the sea transports, but it also causes a few problems. The salt gives rise to corrosion What's more, a phenomenon that disrupts daily life [Italian spoken audio] Every 6 hours in Venice, every 5 hours and 40 minutes, And then it also depends on the moon. When it's full, the tide is much higher. So the gondolier because when the water is high, In winter, the water can rise The Acqua Alta, the high water, signifies an exceptionally high tide floods and paralyzes To counter the intrusive the Venetians have launched Moses in Italian. Flavia Fagioli, an architect, [Italian spoken audio] The Moses project is a mechanism built where the lagoon and [Italian spoken audio] It's made up of 78 mobile dikes, that rise and form a barrier to the tide. [Italian spoken audio] But as soon as the threat the dikes no longer interfere nor with the economic activities, between the sea and the lagoon, which is the most important thing. [Italian spoken audio] Despite the fact that the sea the famous St Mark's at the lowest part of the town. The square is dominated by a bell tower, St Mark's Square by visitors and by pigeons, which one is not The square was a salon who occupied Venice At that time, the Cafe Florian, already existed. The clocktower has been since the end of the 15th century. It gives information which tells sailors about the tides. It is also the first since it gives the time in figures. The mechanism is very complicated. The clock has undergone and in the middle of the 19th century, all the clocks in Venice were set to it. At the top of the tower, They are considered to be Moors because of their very Nearby, there's a crowd The layout and adornments of the building are reminiscent of a Byzantine church. Byzantium and Venice before falling out forever. The Venetians stole a number Among them were, for example, the very ancient a very hard stone. The Doge's Palace was the the Doge. The building was but was also the symbol of its power. The Doge was enthroned Inside the palace. The decoration is incredibly lavish, even in places where visitors The four door room is only a waiting room, but no expense The ceilings are divided into panels, and some of the frescoes one of the most famous Venetian Veronese, another giant also contributed to the work. From the ceilings everything pays homage that was called Serenissimi The 500 people who made up gathered in the Great Council chamber. This was not really a democratic meeting because attendance The chamber, is superbly decorated. The Triumph of Venice that represents where the Ottomans Venice's overwhelming military For waging distant wars it contains an impressive collection One curiosity is the war armor presented to Venice In contrast to its opulence, the basement of the Doge's Palace When night falls, Napoleon's salon Splendid Viennese waltzes are quite normal In February and March, And mingle with the crowds of visitors. It's carnival time. For a short period, and it is hard to tell Venice becomes one huge stage. In the past, the carnival gave that they could mix with high society. And the reverse was also true. Nobles had the chance To avoid any provocation, it was recommended should not wear their jewels. Today, the festivities They used to spread The Carnival found its second after it was suppressed by Napoleon at the end of the 18th century. In Venice, to ignore social barriers. It ensured that people could have fun and express themselves freely without worrying about the consequences. You could wear any costume, Ridiculing the clothes was quite out of the question. Stefano Nicolau is reputed for [Italian spoken audio] For individual clients, for example, when the carnival is on, I also act as an advisor to see, according to the which costume suits them best. [Italian spoken audio] There are many sources [Italian spoken audio] There are two categories. On the one hand, costumes corresponding to the image [Italian spoken audio] And on the other, there are those more linked to the ancient tradition For example, the Bauta: the costumes [Italian spoken audio] The carnival costumes but they reveal a flourishing activity, a surprising sense of detail. [Italian spoken audio] Here we are in as you might say, where we create the costumes. [Italian spoken audio] A small selection can be rented. [Italian spoken audio] You can also hire all the accessories. [Italian spoken audio] For example, this lady's hat. [Italian spoken audio] There are also Casanova costumes, gondoliers, the soldiers, [Italian spoken audio] This is a Doge's hat inspired It's encrusted with jewels. [Italian spoken audio] It's reminiscent of hats [Italian spoken audio] There are costumes for everyone. And music for all tastes. Venice can resound And Venice can just as easily of a band from Bergamo. Throughout its history, Venice has always and hold on to artists. In all areas of artistic creation, the town has provided For opera, is second to none. The Fenice was created and the music of Verdi The building has been but each time, In fact, that is where Fenice means Phoenix, the legendary bird [Italian spoken audio] The construction of this theater is owed to the fact that all wanted to be in at the birth [Italian spoken audio] There was a strong competition and with this project, they in fact created [Italian spoken audio] In Venice, take place in grand auditoriums. They can be held in some of the palaces. In Venice, there are references And especially in the architecture. The noble parts of buildings It was here at the that the famous Goldoni is considered to be From his early childhood, He played with puppets that in those days Venice is a huge source The international has become a major event. It exploits marvellously, the contrast between and the ancient buildings. The Grassi Palace is a jewel The sculpted and have not been disfigured The works were financed by the French businessman and it is where he The Maritime Customs was where customs clearance The huge warehouses in order to make use of their space. The buildings have been financed the Grassi Palace and by the same architect Tadao Ando. The idea of contemporary art refers to all creations Contemporary art overturns Thus, the materials used are unusual Which does not Still alongside the Grand Canal lies rich American heiress Beside her, the grave She lived here for the last devoted to her legendary collection. It is said that during that time, and not any old work of art. Peggy Guggenheim was, the main patron the American Jackson Pollock. Thereafter, one of the most sought after. The Biennale of Venice Every two years, bringing together the most In the Giardini, the gardens, numerous pavilions receive artists The Venice Biennale and particularly to the arsenal, but above all, founded in the 12th century. The arsenal is still today However, since the end of the 1990s, the Italian navy to be used for the The Architectural Biennale to the exhibition of contemporary art. The event has become of the world's architects. All the military might of Venice Its organization and its to such an extent that a vessel A museum contains like the one of the U.S.O., where celebrations to the sea were held. Napoleon had the luxurious ship burnt in order to recuperate The town christened La Serenissime was also called La Dominante Of course there are always but today some of them because of their A large scale event is being prepared. There is a bustle The crowd is gathering at a great annual event. The Regatta storico. has existed since It's one of the most The Doge is in the best seat. The former first person which shows the importance Today, the town Many boats plow up and traffic must not The police are keeping watch. The high spot of the show: The race between The origins of this competition Some think it commemorates setting off to search who had been abducted by pirates. Others believe that it refers who compete to get The Venice Lagoon deposited by the rivers Only 10% of the lagoon is navigable. The rest is covered The islands have allowed Venice In the 19th century, San Miguel became an island cemetery. Prior to that, around the churches. The island of Murano It has a lighthouse and many boats Once upon a time, orchards and pleasure gardens. The name of Murano thanks to its production of glass. As Venice feared fires above all else, the town decided to transfer at the end of the 13th century. Since then, the techniques have remained unchanged and the secrets With one twist, the craftsman folds gold leaf Further on, the island of Burano by its brightly painted houses The colours helped fishermen Today, house owners chosen by the town council, and anyone taking Burano owes but also to a tradition which handmade needle lace. This is a technique that brought Even at the court of Louis the 14th, Burano Lace was known and appreciated. The designs are so complex that their finesse is often At the beginning of the 20th century, when the technique was being forgotten, young women were called in The Burano lace makers instead of the traditional bobbin. Today, the succession Julia Palmisano. No, there are only elderly people. It takes a long time to make a doily. No, there are no young people anymore. Girls don't want to learn It's going to disappear, unfortunately. With their special touch, the lace makers make Doilies, collars, the flowers and other beautiful things [Italian spoken audio] The Lido Island stretches between the lagoon and the sea. The long bar protects Venice, The Lido Island is very residential. The passage of time seems At the end of August the Lido bubbles with excitement. Visitors flock in from around the oldest cinema festival in the world. It was first held in 1932. It was only after that the Cannes Film Festival The awarding of the first prize, is the high point of the Mostra. It is a world class event and of the artists who have been Without the Mostra, the Lido Island would be limited But thanks to the Cinema Festival, the Lion of Saint Mark Passing triumphs succeed one But throughout its turbulent history, Venice has shone Water and earth have come together to create a tangible reality Refinement and pleasure, culture and power Venice and its islands It is a true island treasure.