It was the political center of one of the most important civilizations of humanity. Even today we can observe some vestiges of the greatness of the Incas. We invite you to learn why, if we had to choose a capital for South America, we would choose Cusco. We are in the historic center of Cusco, a very special place. It is a World Cultural Heritage site, according to UNESCO, since this was the epicenter of the Inca civilization, which condensed thousands of years of development of different South American indigenous cultures. Cusco belongs to Peru, and currently a little more than 400,000 people live there. It is not among the most populated cities in the country and throughout the subcontinent there are dozens of more populous urban centers. There are also other cities that are more modern or that concentrate greater political power today. However, if we had to choose a hypothetical capital in all of South America, we would have no doubt that this would be the most suitable place. Yes, let's imagine for a moment that this entire region is a single independent country. It would surpass Russia as the largest of all, although only by 4%. And it would close the podium among the most populated: with 440 million inhabitants it would be far from India and China. Well, in that hypothetical scenario, the capital should be at this point: near the geographical center and in the middle of the Andes mountain range, one of the great natural symbols of South America. The idea may seem strange but it is not 100% original. In fact, the Peruvian constitution details that Lima is the capital of the republic but that Cusco is the "historical capital" of the country. What was administered from here was so important that the consequences last to this day. And luckily you can see many of the most majestic works. The most famous of all is Machu Picchu, located a little more than 100 kilometers from here, but there are several more. Before continuing, we want to talk to you about CyberGhost, a tool that is super useful for when you are traveling. Maybe it happened to you on some occasion: you go on a trip and it becomes difficult for you to access the same sites or applications that you use from home. Well, CyberGhost is a VPN that allows you to choose from 11,000 different servers from 100 different countries. In this way, it makes it easier for you to use any of your devices as if you were doing it from your own country or the one you choose. This service is used by more than 38 million people around the world. And it has another great advantage, security: the IP address is hidden, the data is encrypted and all the information is sent through a secure tunnel. You don't need to be an internet expert to take advantage of the CyberGhost service, which has an application that is available for all major platforms. With a single CyberGhost account you can protect up to seven different devices, making it possible to share it with other people. We leave you a link in the video description so you can access a discount of 83%. Plus, there's a 45-day money-back guarantee. And the other thing we want to tell you is that our second book is now available: An Immense World, explanations of inexplicable borders. There you can find a lot of stories related to the imaginary lines that separate countries. Records, curiosities, improbable stories and a lot of new material that we had not published before. In the description we leave you the links so you can buy it. Now yes, we return to the Incas. To measure the greatness of this empire, which had Cusco as its capital and which was at its peak when the Europeans arrived in America, we proposed the following exercise. Compare their achievements with those of other great civilizations in history in different aspects in which they have stood out. For example, we can say that the Incas were like the Romans because of the tremendous network of roads they developed. In Europe, the Romans managed to communicate every corner of the empire with great efficiency, but the South Americans were not far behind. They called it Qhapaq Nan and it reached no less than 30,000 kilometers, something like three quarters of the Earth at the height of the Equator. One main route went along the coast and the other through the mountains. At the same time, there were transversal roads that connected them and reached the most remote communities. Goods, people and even information were transported along these routes. In fact, there was a developed system that allowed messages to be sent by post, which allowed information to pass very quickly from one end of the empire to the other. The road network was fundamental for the political unification of the empire, which became truly gigantic. Parts of present-day Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina were governed from Cusco . Approximately, from present-day Pasto, in Colombia, to Talca, in Chile. No less than 2.5 million square kilometers. That is, if we compare it with the countries that exist in the world today, there are only nine that are larger. The second historical civilization that we will use as a comparison are the Egyptians, since in both cases they achieved innovations in agriculture that allowed the development of societies. The Africans were able to dominate the flooding of the Nile River, while the Americans had an environment that was also super complex due to the altitude and the conditions of the territory. The Incas developed systems of canals, aqueducts and cultivation terraces to use water as efficiently as possible within mountainous areas. In this way, they were able to develop advanced agriculture in areas that were not the simplest, which undoubtedly allowed economic and cultural takeoff. For the third analogy we will stay at the heights, since not just any town develops so many meters above sea level. In this case, we are referring to the Tibetans, who have lived in the Himalayas for thousands of years with the complications that this entails. Both cultures have managed to adapt their architecture to steep terrain and have even been able to thrive in environments where oxygen is more difficult for humans to capture. We have already made the comparison: today La Paz, which a few centuries ago was part of the Inca empire, is the highest seat of government in the world. But if the Tibetans achieved their independence, although today it seems a distant goal, they would surpass the record, since Lhasa is a few meters above. The following comparison is for another of the important legacies of the Incas, their architecture. In this sense we can relate them to the Greeks, another people who left pieces that can be seen to this day. In the case of the Incas they did it in a very particular way: in communion with the natural environment, as can be seen in Machu Picchu. Also with astonishing precision, as seen in Sacsayhuaman, where we see enormous blocks perfectly grouped together that do not fit a single leaf. To make matters worse, the techniques of the Incas had extra value, since they have resisted earthquakes for centuries. Oh, and all this without knowing the wheel. Much of the architectural legacy is present in the city of Cusco itself today. In fact, the city was declared a world cultural heritage site by UNESCO for this issue. The following comparison may seem somewhat strange, but it has undoubtedly been key to the territorial greatness and transcendence of this town. We can say that the Incas achieved cultural unification in the same way that the Persians achieved in Asia. Different traditions that were maintained but at the same time converged under the same government, with a single central administration and also with a common language, in this case Quechua. We can also compare the Incas with another of the most relevant pre-Columbian cultures in America, the Mayans. In what sense? In astronomy: both cultures have been very skilled when it comes to observing the stars and the sky. The Mayans built observatories and temples based on astronomical events, but the Incas were not far behind. They carefully observed what was happening to the sun, moon and stars, and this allowed them to plan the agricultural calendar with precision. And now, let's go to the last of the comparisons. Some may think it is somewhat exaggerated, each one can evaluate it. The Incas have been great explorers and have discovered distant lands, like the Portuguese. It is true that they did not navigate as many seas and oceans as the Europeans, but they did explore remote places in South America that were very difficult to access. Likewise, there is a theory that has some support and that indicates that the Incas did jump into the ocean. Even that they populated and traded with distant lands of Oceania. Some historians consider that the Incas reached the distant Marquesas, Rapa Nui or Mangareva islands, located several thousand kilometers away from the South American coast. Despite archaeological evidence, many have doubted this version. How could it be that they crossed thousands of kilometers across the Pacific with the rudimentary technology they possessed? To respond to this concern, some explorers led by the Norwegian Thor Heyerdahl decided to attempt the journey in the same way and with the same resources that the Incas had a few centuries before. They built a raft called Kon-tiki and in 1947 they set sail for the high seas. After 101 days, and after having traveled 7,000 kilometers, the six crew members arrived on the Polynesian coast in perfect condition. In particular they made landfall on the Raroia atoll, which administratively belongs to French Polynesia. The experience was tremendous. Heyerdahl's book was a best seller that was translated into dozens of languages. A documentary was filmed that won the Oscar. And the Kon-Tiki museum, located in Oslo, is one of the most visited in the city. In short, we can see that the Incas have managed to develop a unique civilization that transcended time and have marked the identity of the region to this day. For all these reasons, if we had to choose a capital in South America, we would undoubtedly opt for Cusco, the place that centralized Inca greatness. Finally, we would like to know your vision: if you had to choose the capital of your continent, what would it be and why? And don't forget that in the video description we leave you a link to access the CyberGhost VPN promotion and try the service. This application protects your data while you browse and gives you full access to all blocked content on the Internet for the equivalent of just EUR2.03 per month. And it's totally risk-free, so don't forget to try it! Thanks for joining us. Until next time.