your faith for all of the things God has called 1 Samuel 22:1-5 and 1 Corinthians 9:24-26. The second one is from the great apostle Paul. &quot;David When his brothers and his father's household All those who were in distress or in and he became their commander. him. From there David went to Mizpah 'Would you let my father and mother come and for me?'&quot; That is a very powerful way he says &quot;So he left them with the king of Moab, and in the stronghold. But the prophet Gad said to the land of Judah.' So David left and went to the The second one is in 1 Corinthians, chapter 9. The gives a metaphor I want us to apply our know that in a race all the runners run, but to get the prize. Everyone who competes They do it to get a crown that will not will last forever. Therefore I do not run like boxer beating the air.&quot; Let's stop there. &quot;I I want you to look at your neighbor Just give them an Olympic look really eyes. Look at them like a winner. Look &quot;We run for a reason.&quot; I want to remind somebody God, only you know all of the purposes you so I ask you, God of heaven, to invade the glory and the oil of your anointing so you've called us to do. We cannot afford in God, we ask that you would pour into Your Word says we will receive from you as we need you this hour. Please come in a way needed it. Touch the place in us that but in your presence there's no Every hidden part, every secret thing, deal with use me as your instrument. I'm available as if I were a woodwind instrument, and to know for the place you've called them and you're faithful. I thank you for All of the runners in the house, raise your hand. I wrote that title down. &quot;We run Running for a Reason. I thought, &quot;That sounds like I'm starting a sermon.&quot; But the Lord put my Bible down yesterday for a few I'd been up since early working on this When I put it on the Olympics, they were running and the Scripture, Running for a Reason, so must confess to you is...it's so embarrassing...I not in a big ugly cry way or anything. Not bad part about it was the person who won wasn't I didn't feel the tears come while she was looking at her teammates after she pulled This isn't even my country. I don't even like to I judge them. I do. &quot;Don't you know there's There are so many preferable ways to exercise. I would choose a non-runner's low over side of that that makes it worth it to me, As I paused and thought about the correlation emotion I experienced, I saw that watching someone of what they're running for and who they're It was a relay race, so when I saw all of along with her into victory, it touched me to that made her say, &quot;For my country I have this. For my mom who sat at every track about all of the people who believed when she wasn't much of a runner, I'm just telling you this because the connection was profound to me. When I had no visible gift or really any kind of but she believed in me. I know she believed in where we sat down... I didn't know how to be a We're sitting there, and we're planning out our and preach. I'll never forget this. I put up the summer ministry. I was trying to get everybody he didn't send a committee, and if you really make a decision. We were going back and forth, &quot;How about 'Run to Win'? Wouldn't that be a One person didn't think that was a very good a competition. It's really not about winning.&quot; not whether you win or lose; it's whether you're and said, &quot;Well, I'm not having fun unless I'm it's in the blood. We're kind of competitive. So, this guy is saying, &quot;Well, it's not really saying, &quot;Well, I think the Christian life is with the word win, and one has a problem with the members looked at me. She was really soft-spoken. what to do.&quot; From that moment forward, I decided That's the great secret for life. You can bluff said that to me so softly... I don't even but she said that to me, and I said, road. I'm going to get to this story Corinthians in just a moment, but just We get to our very first church. We're so We have developed our teachings. &quot;This is this is Joni's session, this is Grace's session, We're going to do it over the course of five Win.'&quot; You know, all of these wonderful plans. people. Zero kids had shown up for the youth I looked at Holly. I had learned &quot;We need you to lead us.&quot; I said, &quot;You! Make the moment she fell in love with me, when I about that just... &quot;Ooh. Ooh. Make a flyer.&quot; We went to Walmart. We covered 500 windshields kids to get to the Baptist church. By the end I preached like it was 25,000, because I've not a place of performance. I'll preach if there See, I think this is a common misconception something. A lot of times, you will see the understand the reasons for their ambition. have we always had something to run for, but made me smile to think about how here I am, 25 Now, this is not a marriage seminar. So, I'm &quot;God, this is you speaking to me,&quot; because I must must be speaking today to people who need a second running the race of their life, running around, What a disturbing image we use to just describe running around like a chicken...&quot; Why do you you're busy. But Paul said, &quot;Do you not know asked a moment ago, &quot;How many runners do thought every hand should go up, because As a matter of fact, if you are not a runner, the Christian faith. The Judeo-Christian ripples from this Holy Scripture, is full starting with... Let's talk about our If I say, &quot;A big fish swallowed him &quot;Jonah.&quot; (Look at how smart you were didn't you?) The Bible says Jonah judge Jonah all you want, but Moses ran from a Moses ran from a body he buried in Moses ran so far he ended up leaving Egypt and becoming a shepherd for from Esau. He ran from his own brother You know who we never talk about when though? David. David ran. You don't believe me? his brothers. Check this out. He's just a young He wasn't able to go out to the war, but his I love this picture in 1 Samuel 17. It says, supplies, ran to the battle lines and asked his you won't be surprised to find that Look at verse 23, the next thing that happens. stepped out from his lines and shouted Whenever the Israelites...&quot; That's all of the day after day after day after day. &quot;...saw the David is running toward what others are running a belligerence about David. Some would say is running from... He's like, &quot;Who's that?&quot; Some for a reason. The reason I believe he's running in you don't run toward giants; you run from giants. In some things being dumb and young will will. Sometimes being young and dumb will 500 flyers when nobody showed up for your on windshields and not even worry, &quot;What if car without permission?&quot; That's the thing lawsuit? I don't want anybody putting anything Something about being young will make you run. has been home for the summer, and I've missed the not running for any specific thing through he has the excess energy to just get You would think maybe he was late for an that needed attending to. No. Just running &quot;Why not? I just feel like running.&quot; I think run for no reason.&quot; But wouldn't that why did you laugh? It doesn't look right for You are thinking to yourself, &quot;Look, man. That's for no reason just because you have excess energy fuels our passion in our walk with Christ is our relationships and have no trouble trusting We don't know yet not to trust them. Our so we run. We run to opportunities because investment because we've never experienced David not only runs to the battle lines when but when Goliath came toward him with a sword... fierce, warrior energy steps to the battle &quot;As the Philistine moved closer There's something about this dumb, young David the power of nostalgia. It's taking you back to what you didn't know, so you would just go without needs a plan when I have personality? Who needs Y'all, to me, these days, I don't go 12 the nearest restroom I might could stop at along I want you to know. It's one thing to run intentionally run when you've been through some that could have made you afraid, that Paul is describing in his great letter run in a game. He says they set their mind and they run in a line, and when they enter the they go into strict training. Now let's do a David, of course, was hundreds of years both experiencing the same type of thing. that have never heard about Jesus, and he is is the second king Israel has ever known. who was supposed to support him, mentor But Saul attacked what God was trying to God is bringing you something that is intended something that is within you. You can't even things God sent as an answer to your answered prayer because you didn't know I have prayed to God in seasons of my life to but when the encouragers came to support me, I insecurity made it impossible for me to believe I pray a prayer for God to send a person. but the patterns of my life will not So, I prayed a prayer for a person. I have a and now I keep praying about people God has because of something on the inside of me. What I'm some of you are running from the answer In Paul's letter, he was talking and in David's story... There's a but for different reasons. I want to read that I've set the context, and then It says, &quot;David left Gath and escaped to and his father's household heard about it, we need to take a little break away. David is it confusing when God calls you one thing Isn't it crazy when God calls you free it crazy when God calls you loved but your God calls you chosen but you feel left out? who wasn't called to appear before the prophet As a matter of fact, at the moment David was just doing his chores, tending the to anoint another son with oil, &quot;This is not the oil froze until David showed up. The oil to anoint the next king. David did not have This may set you free from thinking a certain time or you have to get the have to be recognized in a certain way Being recognized doesn't make it real. It is was anointed to preach when there were no I'm anointed to preach today. The only number of people I'm doing it with and for. is it's one thing to run for something you chose I'm going to find a husband. I'm going to get I'm going to run a marathon.&quot; (The Devil is It's one thing to run after something you you're being chased. I don't necessarily just toward something. That's wonderful. If you're I want to have this much money. By 40, 50 I can have this much...&quot; That's But there is a sense in which you and I both your life is not what you're running to; it's what and they judge you by that. People see what you The significance of the text in 1 Samuel 22 is not running from a giant. No. He's not running from the king, and he is running from what he did not sign up for this event. Saul, the Instead, he is beating him over the head with some of us run because we weren't handed what we were handed was hazardous. Some of us run, drives us. You don't really understand this until &quot;Why am I so hard on myself? Why always look for how things are going to You start discovering that some of the the batons that were not handed to you are running from something. It's hard It's hard to run toward wholeness when I It's hard to run toward wholeness when I only hard to run toward something that has never been like David, running from something I ought to be he didn't. So David is in a cave because of a king The Lord sent me to speak to &quot;Don't let the place you're in make are.&quot; That oil that was on David's head... It because when they anointed you in the Bible The Bible says Samuel had a flask filled with full. It was a full horn of oil, and it on David's head to signify David's destiny. know what it really meant at the time, but The oil was trying to tell him that every king in right now cause you to forfeit or discontinue why it meant so much when I went to preach to they are surrounded by signals and When we went in with our worship team and not just once a year, and we showed up to announce women who were stuck in a situation were lifted God spoke his word over their life. This cave situation in 1 Samuel 22 is who decided to run from God. He is not like life to get a gold medal. He is not like Elijah. You want to be like, &quot;Dude, what are down fire on 850 false prophets. but one woman? One anything after what stand firm.&quot; Maybe you need an illustration. All in our backyard we have deer. We that the dog is smaller than the deer. I also if you watch Bo chase a deer, you can This little dog who can't do anything is &quot;This must be the most thrilling event &quot;I can make something this big run, have to do is this.&quot; But I saw a movie &quot;What if the deer turned back and ran at All of a sudden, I don't think Bo would &quot;This thing that is bigger is being triggered so I can no longer manipulate this thing If the deer ever turned around, it would ever found out &quot;I'm bigger than you,&quot; Bo go outside. I told you last week he's he's going to do with a deer? If you ever got The Devil is hoping you never find out you're and fall back, but I see somebody turning around running from you?&quot; I mean, if you're going at least have a good reason. Don't do If you're going to quit loving your wife, because she didn't appreciate you. That's not a reason for you to give up. Look unto Jesus, the set before him endured the cross, despising its &quot;The joy set before him.&quot; What I'm running comes in concert in David's life. &quot;Wait, he did. He didn't protect him from being chased. Our expectation of God must not be that expectation of God is that we are chosen while today. Some messages are for everybody. This one As a matter of fact, you have hell on your heels, figure out why, and you're like, &quot;But the Bible in his salvation, but run toward his arms for this You know, this preacher from California &quot;I can tell you struggle with depression.&quot; I said, the Da Vinci Code. I tell my church all the &quot;No, I can tell.&quot; I thought this was &quot;I could tell you deal with it because you Then he said something. And you know how He said, &quot;The tools you use tell me a lot &quot;That's a compliment?&quot; I said, &quot;I'm &quot;No. I just can tell what you've been a helpful way for you to look I have to tell you a little bit more about David. hiding from Saul, who has already thrown multiple on-the-job training. And he has lost his best cave. Now look at this in Psalm 142. This You're going to be surprised what David prayed to use when you're in a cave. Look at verse it is you who watch over my way. In the path Look and see, there is no one at my right hand; no one cares for my life. 'You are my refuge, my portion in the I think he is feeling unheard. I think &quot;Listen to my cry&quot; if you feel like situation. &quot;Listen to my cry, &quot;Oh, David, I can tell you deal with depression.&quot; &quot;You think so? I put it in the Bible.&quot; &quot;I am in desperate need.&quot; The three people who need this message are the three people who have been running and cannot see what they are running and it has become a template for the track their He said, &quot;Rescue me from those who pursue me, for prison, that I may praise your name. Then the goodness to me.&quot; Now, when he said, &quot;The righteous Some of you all are praying, &quot;God, when you get going to pay my tithes. Lord, I'm going to give (&quot;Do we have 55? Do I hear a 56? Do I hear a 57?&quot;) Listen to this. He's praying, &quot;The He's praying for support. He's praying care. He's praying for somebody to see. screaming in a cave. There's echo [echo, Watch what happened in 1 Samuel 22:1. His father's down to him there. Not only his family, which at who else came. &quot;All those who were in distress &quot;Okay, God. Remember how I was praying for you anybody, Lord. Just me and you, Lord. 'All I And what are they? They are David's 3D army. You distress, they were in debt, and they were with 3D this week. Remember how we were saying comes, and you don't want it because it came in It came in the form of a need. Why need? Come on. Think with me. I can't shout. I have to help you so you know these... You know, he prayed, &quot;God, And here come in debt, in distress, and that again. 'Then the righteous...' You thought Lord.&quot; Now we have a decision to make, church. cave in the moment of greatest need in I will suggest to you it's because David was was anointed. For everybody who is in the always making withdrawals from me and not &quot;Why doesn't anybody tell me 'Good job'?&quot; &quot;Good job&quot; when you do it consistently. surprised by it. The moment they stop being your kids who ate your peanut butter and the jar away either. They just left it in there, They expect you to be on time. They is the greatest compliment, so don't cry &quot;You will know you're a good preacher when because they will all of a sudden become less and they will become more concerned about I put this to you as a personal challenge today. you think God anointed you for? What did you God blessed you with that experience for? You The moment the oil hit David's head, he should where there are no caves. If God is going to caves along the way. Oh, how I want to preach want to preach to everybody who wants to have There will be caves along the way. You will and I'm reaching for that, and I feel this, and they did that to me.&quot; Don't let the Don't let their lack of appreciation Don't let the fact that they don't want to run they don't want to go that direction anymore. to run with. They might be 3D, but you're just the message. This message is dedicated to my told him I was going to dedicate this message David was used by God, but in this moment of was doing. Can both be true? Absolutely. I am very that he is using me. Do you remember when Jesus them something very important. He said, &quot;You do Sometimes you have to take a lap and understand the walls of Jericho and trust that &quot;Something come against the discouragement in your I come against the catalog in your mind against the tears you've cried because eyes! David is a king in a cave, and and he's going to be a king. Kings can be only be developed in caves. The thing in me that 18 when there were no kids. It needed to be set I could not have delivered this word to you my brother in Christ, my sister in Christ, I know if it's generational. I don't know if heightened. I don't know if it's other people. God said to tell you, &quot;Don't waste this cave.&quot; running from something. Everybody is &quot;I'm not running aimlessly anymore.&quot; Running not even thinking about it anymore, not even did in verse 3. The pressure was so overwhelming. He looks around, and here's his old dad and his were in a cave. We came to keep you some company.&quot; bring David in from the field when they were I'm going to tell you something very important That's why some people hate you and don't even if they make you an enemy, they don't have to take some people think too highly of you. They need So, in the moment that the 3D the 3D army of dysfunctional derelicts he goes to Moab. Do you remember anything David's great-grandmother? He had Moabite leave his home for a little while, He went to the king of Moab, who wasn't exactly This is the most anointed verse I've read in a let my father and mother come and stay with you were heightened and my attention was riveted by when it flowed and ran all the way down, it ran &quot;I know God is speaking to me about some things. life right now, but I don't know yet. I'm not even lacking clarity.&quot; Listen to that again. You're David said, &quot;This is too much for me right support me.&quot; You can be surrounded and still on your phone and no one to be intimate breathe the air with them, share the food with Now David is charged with the task of receiving and he is becoming a king, and he is about There was no process of David putting himself preach to somebody today. You didn't ask for You didn't even know what it was. You did not &quot;I want to deal with this.&quot; You did not ask dealing with that thing. You did not plant weeds of it. Well, what then? What is the answer The truth of the matter is David was anointed about you that what will be true of you in a king even in this cave. You are valuable even times when I'm preaching where the Holy Spirit I do not know who it is, but &quot;This cave you have been in is closed for and I need you to move forward even though you're to come out of a cave, go to Moab, and &quot;I don't know what God is going to do. turn out. I don't know if my kid is going to but that was just a false alarm, and but will you keep what's important I just picture somebody in here today. God does not intend for you to carry forward need to drop for what God has called you have been by now, the guilt Christ Would you put that behind you so you can While you're at it, stop looking around at other pace for this season. I found out something Enemy. When God puts something significant in me, You should have known the moment the going to be easy. You should have known &quot;There's a reason the Devil tried to end ahead of me that is so great it makes the I figure if the Enemy sent something against me there must be something ahead of me that is of you, bro. It's amazing what's ahead of you, did that. He did it with the weight of the world you. &quot;Mom carried all that and she still carried You don't need that cave. When you're called, &quot;I know you're running, and I know there's a stronghold.&quot; What is a stronghold, church? It is meant to be visited but not lived in. Some of the ways you developed to deal with your but they're over now. The prophet named Gad told Judah? Because that was the place David was from, That was the place where he would be covered, and says, &quot;I will cover you in every place I call you you come out of the stronghold just for a moment but the cave is closed now. I know you kind of had I know you were trying to prove something having something you never received in your childhood, grow up. God has something with your name and it's not just about you anymore. Come to and Judah is the name that means praise. left the cave, God called him to a I think it is a sign that when we God begins to move. The oil begins to flow. I running for something. I'm running with someone. he'll lift me up on wings like eagles. So, I Father, in the name of Jesus, I me today. I thank you for the times in While I was praying in a cave, you You were making plans. Thank you, Jesus. And you plans, and fulfilling purpose. I declare your Word the plans I have for you.&quot; Just because we are not God, I come against everything that shoved those that has told this child of God, this individual, now, in the name of Jesus, I thank you for your Say it out loud. &quot;Devil, in the name They're covered.&quot; Now start clapping Try this. &quot;Devil, you can't have my my heart. It's covered. You can't have my vision. It's covered. I declare that in Christ I am running this race in the strength of Jesus.&quot; Come Somebody needs to come to Jesus right now. You running to you. The Bible says in the story of the is running toward you, running with forgiveness, you with arms open wide. All you have to do I'm here. I'm sorry I ran from you. I was running There's somebody here today. You need to receive prayer with you. If you will pray this prayer you from heaven. He will forgive your sin. you new. You will be born again. You will be &quot;Heavenly Father, I am a sinner that Jesus Christ is the Son of Today, I make Jesus the Lord of my life. and rose again to give me life. I receive On the count of three, shoot your hand up if you two, three! Shoot it up. I see you. we can do better than that! High-five at least You have something to run for, and you have this thing. Do you hear me? I know it You're not alone. You're chosen. The two you're chosen. That's why you're running. That's why the Devil is chasing you. I'm running toward is greater than what I'm lap. Lift your hands. Now unto him who is able to him be glory through Christ Jesus hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content what spoke to you today where you're watching you'd like to support the ministry financially continue reaching people around the world for