Hey, everybody. Don Georgevich here with Job Interview Tools. And today, I want to give you my 5 Best Last I'm doing this because I get people writing They're like, Hey Don. I saw you on YouTube and I've got an interview What are your best tips? So, I thought I'd make you a video and give Now, this is more of a framework or methodology And even though when you go into an interview, It's about how you say the right thing. Now, keep in mind that going into an interview get you the job. I mean, it will help. It will help keep you on the right track if but saying the right thing in an interview going to win you the job. I mean, an interview isn't about the right It's kind of different; it's the way you present It's the experience behind; it's the passion So, there's a lot deeper things that go into giving the right answer. But I want to give you my 5 Best Last Minute that's going to pull you through the interview of who you are and what you can deliver to So, the first thing I have is ask good questions. Ask good questions to them. This is going to show them that you are thinking Now, you only want to ask them questions that want to work there or not. You don't want to ask them meaningless questions. You want your questions to have some value about whether you want to work there or not. So, that's number one; ask good questions you want to work there. And when they see that you're asking these work there? How are you going to evaluate my performance? You see, what's important to me in a job is to you in a job. So, that's why you want to ask questions that where that answer educates you about them this is a place that you want to be or not. That's the whole point of asking questions. You don't want to ask questions just for the Now, I have a whole list of potential questions Answer Guide, but you really don't need those. You really don't need those questions. They're just samples. They're meant to help trigger you and to help help educate you, but you really don't need You need to think to yourself, what's important Is it travel, like if there's too much travel, So, if we were sitting down and one of your in the position and they said, Well it's And you know that you're not willing to travel just disqualified themselves. You asked qualifying question and in your They failed with their answer because that's And you know what? That's too much for you. You don't want to do that. So, they're out. You can just exit the interview right there But I hope you see what I'm driving at. I hope you see where I'm going; in that it's that help you decide whether you want to work All right. Makes sense? Let's go on to number 2. Be flexible: be flexible in the interview, interview, meeting some other people, providing they're asking for. Be flexible, be accommodating. Show them that you are willing. You don't want to just go in there and if Ill get back to you. I'll let you know. Give them an answer. Be decisive. And show them that you are willing to accommodate Because I mean, if you want this job more accommodating and flexible with whatever it Of course, you want to be within reason, but Remember, they're dealing with a lot of different And so, the more flexible and accommodating process makes you a more attractive candidate. It really does. All right. So, let's move on to number 3. Use their language: use the same words that So, when you first apply to the job, grab it and highlight it. Highlight the different words and the language Then when you go into the interview, be reflective Because what they're doing is they're giving the way that they write, the way that their terminology that they use. So, you have a blueprint of that now. So go in to the interview and be the person type of language. When you start using the same words, buzz Hey he's (she's) using the same words that They think like us and you're showing that And when they see that a candidate is like us, you talk like us, you are one of us. We want to invite you in. We want to invite you into our culture. That's what's going to go through their mind they use. Now, you can even take this one step further. Be adaptive, be mirroring. When you're in the interview and you're talking a certain way or they're using words a certain whatever, pick up on that. Pick up on that; be detective. Pick up on that, write those things down and your conversation. I mean, do it naturally. Don't do it in an awkward way, but try to be more like them. It'll show that you're more like minded, you'll get the job, because again, they'll say, Hey, is one of us. What's he doing over there? Let's invite him in over here. Okay? So, do that. All right. So, let's move on to number 4. Compliment them when you don't know. I mean, this happens all the time. We get into an interview and we're always This is in the back of our mind that they're What do we do? Do we sit there? Do we put our thumb on our mouth? We do we shake? Do we look away? What do we do when we don't know the answer? Well, there's a great thing you can do. If you don't know the answer, ask for more Ask them some follow up questions around their And what this is going to do is it's going about what they're asking and they might even It's a natural thing that we humans do. When we feel that we are misunderstood, we So, if they ask you a question that you really up questions around that to try to pinpoint will go above and beyond and reply back to And they'll take off some of the boundaries will make it easier for you to give a more for. And plus it's stall time. It allows you to stall a little bit and think Now, you don't want to use this technique This is kind of like a lifeline. So, if you feel like you're stuck and your and it does, mine does too. You know, we're in front of people, the pressure freeze. We don't know what to do. Have a lifeline. Write it down. Write a little lifeline note to yourself that Don says if we get stuck, let's ask a follow So, then you do that. You ask a couple more questions to pinpoint They are going to feel like, Oh, I must They're going to feel like, You know, because to go farther to articulate what I meant. And this will help you give a more direct you a little bit of stall time too; just in All right. So, let's move onto the last one; number 5. Let them know you want the job; just tell Most candidates don't do this. They just think that because they showed up that they need to express for wanting the They're like, Well, why wouldn't they think I mean, I showed up here, I interviewed for Now, you need to go beyond that. You need to be enthusiastic. So, after the interview say, You know what? This sounds like something I want to be doing. And then be specific; don't be general. Say, You know, I want to be working with I want to be in the industry. I want to work on this project. I want to innovate things. I want to make contributions to what you guys And be specific; be passionate. Show them that this is where you want to be that if you don't get it here, you'll get But be clear about that. Most people aren't. When they go in the interview, they just sit like, Well, did I do a good job? Can I have the job now? Those people don't It's the people that demonstrate enthusiasm The people that come alive in the job interview. Those are the people that get the job. Now, granted that's not going to win you the I mean, enthusiasm is great. You still need to have other qualities that for more things than just your enthusiasm. I mean, maybe you don't have any experience This is what I want to do. I want to be that astronaut. I can do it. All the enthusiasm in the world isn't going to the moon just because you're enthusiastic. There's a lot more things you need to do. But if you already have the groundwork in that education, and you're enthusiastic about That trifecta; you need all three. That instantly separates you from everyone Because you have the experience, you have You have that passion; that drive. That's how you go farther in the interview. All right my friend? Now, before your next interview, make sure Answer Guide. This book's been around for about 10 years. I wrote it, I developed it. It's based on my experiences as a job seeker And it's got about 140 different questions to use when you answer interview questions. It's going to teach out answer the weakness other people? Tell me about yourself can you do for us that no one else can? questions to ask interviewers too. So, if you're struggling in those areas on there go farther. It's also got behavioral questions in it. Now, if you go into any interview, you're interview is going to be behavioral questions This book details the STAR method and it's questions and answers using the STAR method. So, get this guide. It's like 50 bucks. You can get it from jobinterviewtools.com. You can get it physical hardcopy, e-book, I've got all the different formats and get interview. It's going to help you go so much farther All right my friend. That's all I have for you today. Good luck on your next interview. And we'll see you in the next video. Bye now. If you found this video helpful, then give to my channel so you get notifications every And by subscribing, you support me, my message, So, I'd really appreciate it. Make sure you hit Subscribe.