This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries using the link in the description. In the fall of 1964, the Air Force begins it's come from outer space. It's one of the fastest aircraft to ever can outrun any fighter jet. An aircraft so groundbreaking, it rides its It was going to be the future Amerca's bomber But efforts to develop such an advanced aircraft By the mid 1950s, tensions between the United time high. Both sides had strategic bombers that could deep within enemy territory. The United States had developed a state-of The newly introduced B-52 could carry large B-58 would dash to supersonic speeds. But in an all-out conflict, neither of these While the B-52 could fly all the way to the chance against the latest generation of Soviet The supersonic B-58 could just fly as fast and payload. What the Air Force urgently needed was a new A heavy bomber fast enough to outrun anything But in 1955, many doubted whether such a plane Because it would mean having to turn to some Like using nuclear power to extend an aircraft's the performance of jet engines. The most practical solution seemed to be an of the way to its target before jettisoning to make a supersonic dash. But aviation technology in the 1950s progressed in aerodynamics, engine performance, and exotic And it meant that the dash concept could be supersonically over its entire mission. So in 1957, the Air Force began development And the performance targets were ambitious. It would have to fly more than three times feet higher, and have a similar payload and Leading aircraft builders Boeing and North Boeing and North American submitted radical Both featured cunards and slender delta wings But Boeing was widely expected to win. After all, they had built the venerable B-52 Second World War. North American was the underdog. But during development, their engineers stumbled A little known report that detailed a phenomenon When flying faster than the speed of sound, But if they could be redirected underneath additional lift. Using this principle, North America's entry And the Air Force was impressed. To the shock of Boeing, in 1957, North American's The new bomber would given the name Valkyrie Engineers used cutting edge technologies to fighter jet. To make this feat possible, six afterburning The engines were optimized to run most efficiently And they were powerful enough so that even Mach 3 and still complete its mission. But clever aerodynamics were also key to performance, one of the highest lift-to-drag ratios of Variable geometry wings improved stability On takeoff and landings could be fully extended. At low supersonic speeds, angled downwards But flying at three times the speed of sound, it would soften conventional aircraft aluminum. So engineers developed a revolutionary fuselage to cool the aircraft's interior. Even at an altitude of seventy-five thousand and featured an innovative encapsulated escape It meant that the bomber's crew of four allowing a Valkyrie crew to get airborne only Capable of delivering a nuclear payload to performance was truly out of this world. And the bomber would embody America's strategy The first experimental XB-70 prototype was to begin in the following months. And it would soon be joined by a second and But from the start, it was clear that things During initial ground tests, there were so was delayed for months while engineers sorted It wouldn't be until September 21st that the flight. And cheers could be heard as the space-aged But celebrations were short-lived. Because a hydraulic leak prevented the landing And soon one of the engines surged, forcing As the prototype came back in for a landing, and catch fire. It seemed just as one problem was solved, On October 12th, the XB-70 crossed the sound inching above Mach 1. But as flight tests continued, paint began and soon the aircraft looked like it had flown The paint was patched up, and the XB-70 pushed But with each test flight, it seemed the faster On its twelfth test flight, as the prototype tore off and was sucked into the engine duct, The pilots landed safely, but all of the engines Finally on October 14th, the aircraft was But just two minutes in, a large portion of yet another emergency landing. From that point on, the first prototype was In developing such a state-of-the-art aircraft, But there was a much bigger problem looming From the very start, there were serious doubts safe from Soviet air defenses. Because surface to air missiles, introduced most effective way to guard air space. And by the 1960s, the Soviet Union had thousands XB-70's altitude. The introduction of ICBMs in the late 1950's be delivered much more quickly and economically. In the span of just a few years, missile technology virtually obsolete. With XB-70's strategic value in serious keep the plane relevant. Seketching out radical concepts to repurpose launch platform for spacecraft, or even a Even more outlandish was a proposal that would But these concepts proved to be a bridge too And the program was dramatically scaled back, research project involving just two aircraft. But with millions already spent on development, And in 1966, NASA joined the Air Force in Using the prototypes to gather valuable research By that point the second prototype had proven On May 19th, 1966 it reached speeds beyond at 3 times the speed of sound over 30 minutes. After nearly a decade of development, one finally living up to expectations. But tragedy would strike just weeks later. On June 8, the second prototype was joined photo-op. But minutes into the flight, without warning, the XB-79, instantly destroying it and severely For 16 seconds, the Valkyrie continued flying In a matter of seconds, two test pilots and It was a devastating setback for the program, have to continue research with the much less The XB-70 was an engineering marvel. And while it never joined America's bomber Cold War. Because in 1955, when the Soviet Union learned long range bomber, they scrambled to develop And it would end up as one of the most fearsome But looks can be deceiving. In an effort to match Americans, the Soviets One that they would keep hidden for decades. You can learn more about the M-50's dramatic now on Nebula. Nebula is where you watch more Mustard videos, or MiG-31 Foxhound. And it's where you can enjoy exclusives incredible new series on the battle of Britain, content by Real Life Lore. The best part about Nebula is that it's A streaming service with thousands of big A recent favorite of mine is Finding the Graf Germany's WW2 aircraft carrier, at the time You can learn why it was Germany's first and Get unlimited access to both CuriosityStream to curiositystream.com/mustard and use the