Locals call it the Little Red Dot after but Singapore punches way above its weight when it comes to offering travelers high This is, after all, the backdrop We reveal the city state as only the super rich get You arrive as guests, you leave as ... to the exclusive world of fine dining... Right now it's on the list for $30,000. ... and shopping luxury cars and private yachts. You really have to experience it to understand it. This is First Class, Singapore. There's no shortage of options when it comes Marina Bay Sands is famous but it's the Chairman Suite It's so exclusive that it's invite only. A short hop away from downtown, is Capella Singapore, famous for being the For the most prestigious And for history and heritage, Raffles Hotel Singapore which has not one Few hotels in the world are as famous as every aspect of this elite establishment I have the extreme pleasure and honor to look business as well as everything that is related The history of Raffles Hotel is back to 1887, founded by the Sarkies brothers. From the earliest days the hotel's service and We have always welcomed celebrities. Rudyard Kipling, the author of The Somerset Maugham, We have the celebrities and stars of staying with us but of course Sometimes though there's no hiding it, hundreds of screaming fans give the game away, but for Christian what's important is Our luxury happens in the way we relate we entertain and excite our guests. That's what really defines That and a few mod-cons along the way can't hurt. The hotel was the first hotel in Singapore We were the first hotel that actually offered a and these are all attributes And the innovations continue. In 2019 Raffles completed a renovation that We actually preserved everything added different layers to actually make environments, experiences that our I think the restoration that we did put top hotels in the world and the renovation So what can you expect when Well Christian couldn't resist giving us the tour. We're in our beautiful Palm Court garden, which is one of the most sought-after Raffles Hotel Singapore is Half of the space is dedicated Space creates luxury. In addition to the 115 suites that make up Raffles Ah, the bars. Raffles is the birthplace of the famous shook the world with that concoction, he came It's called a Million-dollar It's more of the egg white, gin sour, slightly Some sweet vermuth and a homade grenadine syrup. The next ingredient will be the pineapple juice. After that we will just need a dry shake. So a dry shake is basically shaking There's no dilution, there's no chilling, but this one is required for creating the foam After the dry shake we'll just add some So now our cocktail is nicely And the Million-dollar cocktail is complete. Please enjoy. Raffles was declared a national The so-called Grand Dame of Southeast Asia for Christian, luxury simply The most luxurious element of any when you enter our premises that Everything slows down in our walls. This is something that we are very proud this phenomenal estate, the asset that we guests to feel comfortable, to understand It is emotional luxury at a very refined level. You arrive as guests you leave as Cementing its position as a travel must, the island state boasts a host of shopping For those looking to satiate their fashion fix It boasts over 5,000 stores along its 2.2km route. And, for luxury labels, you can't miss the which itself boasts over 400 topend stores. And for those hoping for a more an ocean breeze, head over to Marina Bay Sands. We have 270 boutiques and 19 duplexes, one of We pride ourselves on being the one-stop luxury to home and living, fashion, beauty and We're constantly evolving and to deliver the best-in-class retail experiences. So our VIP shoppers and the celebrities who and if they feel that they don't want to walk, we have the buggy service Welcome to your Marina Bay Sands Let's start our journey. This personal shopping service offers Morning, welcome to Ralph And unlike other personal shopping services this one provides many, all Welcome to Buccellati, how are you today? Please allow me to show you around. This is our first store opened and is our biggest flagship store in Asia Pacific. Marina Bay Sands isn't only collaborating it also works with some of the world's unique and visually stunning buildings Inspired by the Roman Pantheon, the the only floating, spherical and an underwater tunnel joins the Vuitton store in the world housed And it's not just the stores Designer Ned Kahn conceived Rain Oculus, a 21 M The water collected is recycled back to the piece and also fills a canal that It is just one of the many artworks and explore in a space that is constantly evolving. With retail therapy all done, and Singapore is famous for its cuisine, including 55 restaurants that Achieving the highest rating of three stars, an occasional Asian twist that the Michelin guide Or go neo-Nordic with Zen, where premium ingredients infuse And it's an understated and where you'll find head chef This is our signature compot peppercorn pigeon, The name of Odette is coming from my She is really someone very important to me how much passion, pleasure, happiness and emotion With techniques naturally handed head chef Julien's award-winning cuisine a nod to the part of the world that Little Asian touch here. We do a bao made of the that will be served as a side So the idea is I need to use from the pigeon breast to the leg, the bone for A childhood spent foraging and learning the but for this chef, there's It's the produce and the raw material, the raw ingredients that will be Chef Julien holds firm in ensuring the and he takes pride in sourcing from artisanal, Well there's always this notion of a Being in Singapore as you know, the because we have not much growing here, plenty of different products from different parts Odette also boasts an impressive selection carefully selected by its wine director, The most expensive wines we have are definitely Domaine Romanee Conti which are among So this is probably the most expensive So a bottle of Domaine Romanee Right now it's on the list for $30,000. A hefty price tag reserved for the with a purchasing power to match of course. But this is First Class, and we do showcase has been consistently serving Singapore's I want people to feel at home, forget about their daily worries of Spend a few hours with us, re-boost their and I think that's exactly what we are striving So what sites do Crazy Rich Tourists need to Gardens by the Bay offers a while the Buddha Tooth Relic Temple is a And don't miss the Instagram-ready it is after all Singapore's National icon. Also a must-see for most visitors is the view that vista than from the balmy Operating since 2015, the Royal Albatross the most memorable and luxurious maritime Passengers get to enjoy a 360deg panoramic and the man behind it all is Peter Pela. This is the grand saloon. This particular space I had to redesign So in the end these beams, these solid I went to a timber yard in Malaysia and literally as I was walking out the timber yard Now, I took an axe and I took a chop at them So we literally bought six tons of that wood. We took the decision to spend literally how to sail the ship, and we still and it's why we keep the ship in such high level of maintenance because They literally handbuilt the ship. We've had many um celebrities, movie stars, F1, Mika Hakkinen in for example, Our most famous I'd say is her She came out here in 2018, I believe it was, and she spent a few hours on It's just such a unique, romantic experience. I mean you really have to experience it the whole ambience and the setting with the mood And that's what people love and We just try to do things that are different. The ship is different, the and we just try and think outside the box. So that's it. We've sailed the seas, we've of the best hotels and restaurants Singapore has