"Put on your seatbelt!" snarls Ted Bundy to an 18-year-old who has making the mortally serious mistake of believing Something's not right. He stinks of booze. Minutes later, he stops the car. "What are you doing?" she asks, now petrified. "This isn't the police station." He offers no response. He doesn't even look at her. The most evil man in America is about to have Day 1 A girl in teenage Ted's neighborhood in Her name is Anne Marie Burr. All the kids in the neighborhood are talking Ted, who's a bit of an outcast among his the girl's house. He's under no suspicion. He's just a kid. But someone who is familiar with the young with him. This boy could kill. That's his aunt Julia's contention. In 1949, when Ted was three and she was 15, her whole perspective on Ted. In the middle of the night, as she was sleeping, knives under her blanket. "What are you doing," she asked him, startled, the landing. Ted said nothing. He just stood there grinning like a child For those first years of his life, Ted watched cats around by the tail, bashing his heavily much whisky. Ted loved his father. He hated that his mother was so weak. Ted had been lied to, though. He thought his grandparents were his parents It was no place for a child to grow up, so in Washington and, not long after, met a cook They legally adopted Ted, making Johnny his Now Ted was Ted Bundy, and soon he'd have of his parents. Now at 14, Ted is a skinny kid with feminine He gets bullied by the older kids, and so, He sometimes takes them out to the woods, One time he calls them over to show them how This is the genesis of the making of a monster. If he'd had been properly treated then, of the rest of this show. Year 3 He has more friends, yet there's something He struggles to form close friendships, especially a distance. He's now into petty crime, stealing equipment When he's not trying to show off, he's and looking over pictures of naked women in He hates his home life. He's ashamed that his adoptive father, Johnny, Ted wants better clothes when he goes to Sears He wants fancy things. During the night, he often listens to talk person being interviewed. He gets taken away with these fantasies, but that will never be him. This is why the daydreaming of late has been He can't stop thinking about hurting people, He thinks about sex a lot - he is, after are often filled with unnatural violence. Try as he might, he can't stop these thoughts. One night he's doing what he likes to do when he comes across some of his mother's It's there he finds his birth certificate. It says, "Father: Unknown." Sometime later, he's with his friend Terry house when they're talking about Ted's Ted looks at Terry and says, "That's not Ted seems unbothered, but on the inside, he's quell. He's attractive, he just doesn't understand He knows he's supposed to like them, to he'd like to do with them, but he doesn't That's not to say he hates all girls. Not long ago, he saved Terry's sister, Wendy, He literally saved her life. But another part of him wants to sneak into a hammer. Year 4 He's free from that stepfather. He's just spent $400 on a '58 Volkswagen by himself. In classes, he barely speaks. He has no friends, not male or female. He still feels like an outcast, but then after on China, he realizes that being an outcast Year 5 He imagines himself as an expert on Asia, Or what he thinks is exotic. He switches to the University of Washington And with his new skills, he meets his first A student impressed with his language skills But for some reason, when they're alone her. It's as if he is afraid that any kind of those dark, violent urges he's had all his But this girl soon gets sick of him. Instead of acting like a man or taking her tap her on the shoulder, and run away. What is wrong with this jerk? They aren't 13 anymore. She dumps him. He can't understand it. After all, he's tried to be nice. He's tried to be normal. It hasn't worked, so now it's time to Year 6 Chronicle reads: death and one of her roommates critically Ted's working as a busboy, and then when stacking shelves at a Safeway store. He drives his car all over the place, seeing adores, who he knows now is his grandfather By this time, he's already seen his official The article in the newspaper continues to in her bed bludgeoned to death. Lisa Wick was found in her bed, almost beaten Both were in their nightclothes. Wick's hair was still in curlers. There were no signs of a struggle. Someone had sneaked into their room and just Very soon, murders with this MO and signature Ted reads this newspaper. He smiles when he puts it down, thinking about his favorite games - letting car tires down woman - deals with it as he watches from This is practice. Years 7 of Washington, and this is where he meets child. He seems clever and charming, and he gets plays with the girl do sometimes seem strange Elizabeth has no idea of Ted Bundy's true He's a man on the up and up, or at least Year 8 in various parts of the country. He's in the Philadelphia area when two students, and are later found tied to trees, both dead. The girls, Susan Margarite Davis and Elizabeth Both had been stabbed to death. This happened on a weekend that Ted shouldn't Julia had seen him that weekend with his leg He'd told her he'd been in a car accident. No records exist of such an accident, and to become a very common occurrence. Year 9 If he's honest with himself, he's chosen his own dark thoughts and his dual personality. In one of his first papers, written about He's been working on a hotline advising parts of their lives not to hurt themselves. He prides himself on being good at speaking husbands or women who've been abandoned. Ted keeps them on the line, sometimes for them know someone loves them and that life This makes Ted feel elated, knowing he can He muses that somehow, as ironic as it sounds, Year 10 good guys. One evening he's with a woman named Freida into the kitchen. She's about to swat it with a newspaper kill it!" He makes sure it can escape through the window. Freida, who really likes Ted, later tells One of his colleagues on the hotline is Anne have a lot to say about Ted Bundy. Right now, all she knows is that he spends his beloved Beetle. Joyce LePage, 21, goes missing after leaving of Washington. She's been stabbed three times. Her body will be found soon. A woman tells police she saw a yellow Volkswagen To make ends meet, Ted drives a delivery truck He gets along well with the boss until he's The boss is confused when he sees Ted has materials. What a strange thing to steal, he thinks, anything about Ted's burgeoning hobby. Year 11 on his election campaign. He's now going places, or it seems that He's dated a few women already, but none He's an enigma, a dog without a home, who same time. Elizabeth Kloepfer adores him, despite knowing Something is not quite right about Ted Bundy, politics who's just been accepted into law Ted's also been seeing his former flame, After spending months re-charming her, enticing her out of the blue and dumps her right when Call it revenge. Still, things could have ended worse. She has her head intact. Rejection is about as good as it gets with Ted is now in a testing phase of what he thinks He's following women around without being He knows he looks middle-class and respectable. He knows it makes him invisible, giving him for. In the parlance of the FBI, he's "organized." However, it will be some time before the FBI He will also become a lot less organized as To the world around him, Ted's a law student He's an educated young man with good looks He's the kind of guy you'd want to take The kind of person you'd stop to offer assistance Lorraine Jolly might have done when she went The same goes with Vicki Lynn Hollar, who just as Bundy is going on those weekend journeys Both women have never been found, but we know that he said his urge to kill had become so he thought about. Still, in the 70s, during what's sometimes Ted Bundy was one of many so-called "lust Year 12 He loves getting invited out for dinner with Being among politicians, he feels empowered. They're driven like him. They'll do or say anything to get what they In short, Ted was drawn to psychopaths. He will later say this life: You can move among various strata of society. You can talk to people whom you'd otherwise Ted also understands something very important. Cops don't think killers go to university Ted reads detective books, too, which give to get away with what he thinks are perfect And he's about to get a lot of practice. Year 13 - month 1 Karen Sparks, a beautiful dancer who studies As with most of his victims, he surveilled seen where she goes for classes and where One night he slips into her dorm, where she's her with a metal rod. She survives but with horrific injuries. The only reason she isn't dead is her roommate, making Ted think the guy had woken up. Meanwhile, his relationship with Elizabeth, - for her anyway. She knows Ted steals things. His house is full of stuff he's taken. She doesn't much like this. One time she joked about telling the cops. He said to her without any irony, "If you One night while in her apartment, he asks She's taken aback by how fast he pulls out He must have known they were there. Ted is terrifying in many ways, but she is She's willing to do as he asks because she posh Republican buddies. It's around this time that Ted writes a how women can protect themselves from abusive About a week later, he is with Elizabeth when and holds him until the cops turn up. Ted gets in the Seattle Times for his good It won't be the last time he features in The story explains, "Police said Bundy chased and caught him as he was stuffing the purse Soon after, Ted is given a job at the King to study why criminals commit more crimes What catches Ted's attention is how police fail to work together. Criminals can be known to one police department, It makes a life of crime that much easier. This, of course, is fabulous news for Ted. Now he has women's safety campaign experience, police departments work. Could a murderer ask for more?!... Hmm...Yes. Month 2 politician. He's in charge of looking at campaign costs The two become friends. Ross's wife, Sarah, loves that Ted is so talks fondly about his beloved parents back One day Ted goes over to their house to show At one point, Ted has to get something from what looks like loads of junk, Ross notices Ted has a pair of handcuffs in there. Ted's currently in law school, but it's It's a second-rate place full of people None of them are smart, and they look like a budding politician. The problem is the majority of them are receiving This makes him furious. Someone will have to pay. One night Ted enters the dorm room of Lynda He bludgeons her to death in her sleep, then takes her body away. Why? Because Ted Bundy is not usually a "sadistic" He's a "Power/Control" killer. He doesn't want his victims to suffer in He wants power over them, and what more power bodies? He's playing God. He likes to get the killing part done quickly, He sometimes stays with them as they decompose. He washes them and combs their hair. He revisits them until decomposition makes He also sometimes takes heads for trophies. Month 3 ground. This victim is 19-year-old Donna Gail Manson. Manson is wearing a red, orange, and green She is on her way to a jazz concert on campus. All we know is she doesn't get there. Ted gets to her first. Instead of bashing her in her sleep, this routine on her to win her confidence. He's been perfecting this, and soon, he'll Month 4 Rancourt, who goes missing at Central Washington Ted has been skulking around this college One of them was 21-year-old Kathleen Clara She sees Ted with his arm in a cast while He politely asks her if she is on the way some much-needed assistance. Why not, she thinks. He is a well-dressed, well-spoken man in need. She is close enough to him for him to attack, back. Ted normally only strikes when backs are turned. He doesn't even want to know their names. It's hard to kill them when they have names. It humanizes them. Ted wants nameless bodies to have mastery This breaks the fantasy. Ted purposefully drops some books, but again, She helps him carry them over in the direction is the last thing Ted wants to do. He's thinking, "Just turn around, for When she sees he's not actually heading He calls her back and asks her if she can towards a brown VW Beetle in the parking lot. D'Olivo might be kind, but she's in no As she walks away again, Ted tries one last "I've dropped my keys," he shouts. "If you could be so kind as just to help Now she's suspicious. Like many people who've met Ted, her intuition this guy. She agrees to help but keeps a yard away and She then spots the keys that Ted just dropped He gives her that look as if to say, c'mon, I've got books in my hands. She just looks at him as if to say, no way. "Good luck with your arm," she says and That saves her life. She later explains all this to the cops. Her description of him will be vital down Jane Curtis is also unfortunate enough to She bumps into him at about 9 pm one evening This time Ted pretty much throws the books about his sling and how it's hard to carry She picks some of them up, and they walk toward grateful. He gives her a strange look, and she notices taking up all of the iris. He is actually looking at her, imagining what hands. "Skiing accident," Ted says as she looks This is more manipulation. Not only does he look vulnerable, but skiing It means he's middle class. Another reason for her to trust him. But Curtis is having none of it. Not only does she think this guy is weird, fake. So, when he asks her over to his car and for He does it himself, and she sees the passenger That's Ted's way of making pushing unconscious Again, Curtis thinks this scene is too weird. When he asks her to get in the car with the that his arm just started hurting a lot more. As she walks off into the distance, Ted spits He rips off the cast and throws it into the Someone is going to pay for this. Month 6-10 He has other things on his mind. He's been scouting victims. Staying up late at night, going out early Then he finds someone that fits perfectly Her name is Roberta Kathleen Parks. Like most of his victims, she's pretty. She's obviously educated since he knows He doesn't know she's a religious studies bothered Ted. The day he takes her, her father has a heart She knows nothing of this bad news at the His victims so far have been from the Seattle 250 miles away. He knows that detectives tend to have what's Ted knows from his love of detective magazines not yet the expression serial killer in the or at least in one area. Ted is branching out. While most killers lack the confidence to they don't know the roads or escape routes, He's spreading his wings. He's going to be a lust killer like none He's going to make it hard for the cops, have already given a fairly accurate description VW Beetle near crime scenes. Ted's not been seeing much of Elizabeth, of the relationship - after all Ted loves with something all the time. Even when they are sleeping together, he'll Just the other day, he went out, not saying her room, explaining that he'd left his When she looked at one of his pockets, a surgical Month 11 It involves a pair of handcuffs and a really An 18-year-old woman named Carol DaRonch parks store at the Fashion Place Mall in Murry, It's evening, and outside is misty and cold. Notably, the town connects with another town weeks prior. She's at the mall to buy a birthday gift a guy that identifies himself as Officer Roseland DaRonch comes from a very strict Mormon family, respect authority. So, when Ted tells her there's been a theft even though Ted stinks of alcohol and is wearing cops. His hair is really greasy, too. This man looks nothing like an officer of But being the polite, respectful girl she is the one where the theft has taken place. When she sees this is not the case, he tells whereupon she finally has the courage to ask Ted very quickly flashes his wallet, not giving When they get to the substation, DaRonch immediately That's because it is. Ted then says they will have to go to the gets suspicious. Nonetheless, what if he is a cop and she refuses She'll be the talk of the town for resisting Her parents will be so ashamed. When they get to the police car, she finds the rear seat. The car is a mess. How could a cop be driving this, she thinks, so believable that she gets in. "Fasten your seatbelt," says Ted, and second because something in her head tells He pulls over at the side of a school. She's now scared out of her wits. This man is definitely not a cop. "What are you doing?" she says, telling He grabs her hand, slipping on a pair of handcuffs. "What are you doing"!" she screams. Ted barely even looks at her. He says nothing. It's a good job he only has one handcuff like a wild animal. She scratches him so hard her fingernails "I'll blow your head off," Ted shouts, her elbows. Out of nowhere, Ted pulls out a tire iron for her to grab it just in time. She then manages to get free from his grip in the street with just one shoe on. Screaming, thinking this man will soon be to hear not a panting man on her tail but DaRonch keeps running. She sees headlights in the distance. The elderly couple Wilbur and Mary Walsh are, It's foggy outside, after all. Suddenly in the glare of their lights, they As they slow almost to a halt, the girl pulls At first, they think this could be an attack, face, they know they've likely just saved Trembling, crying, handcuffs still dangling of the car. They then make their way to the real Murray No survivor has been this close up to Ted such full detail. This matters, a lot. A couple of hours later at Viewmont High School to watch the drama Just before it gets going, a good-looking Shepard, in the hallway. He looks well-dressed in his patent leather Something creeps her out, maybe the way he's He almost looks like a hungry animal. The strange man asks her to go to the parking She seems taken aback by the request. He tells her, "I've had my eye on you, the car." Creepily, he then gawps at her neck again A compliment from a good-looking dude on any from this man. She leaves, only to later see the guy in the He's sitting right behind Dean and Belva close by. 16-year-old Katherine Ricks is also in the Raelynne doesn't know it, but this creep lot, too. At the intermission, Debra tells her parents ice-skating rink. "Don't be too late getting back," says daughter again. Outside, next to her car, police will find Can you guess what it unlocks? After Kent's disappearance becomes a police a criminal profiler. The story talks about the "Utah Abductor," a Jekyll and Hyde-type character, meaning and smart, the kind of guy you'd trust after He's also an animal, says the profiler, Now police in various parts of the Midwest drives a Volkswagen. They have plenty of accounts about a man with What all these departments don't have is One witness said a man had approached her accent, had introduced himself as Ted. Now they have a name, too. Five witnesses said they'd been approached just recently. This guy was wearing a tennis outfit - another They said he'd asked them for help to unload Beetle. He was struggling, his arm being in a sling Four of them refused, but one went with him there was no boat. That same day, the pretty 23-year-old Janice in her bikini in the park. Ted had said to her, "Excuse me, could you I can't do it by myself because I broke my She replied, "Only if I get a ride in that I don't know how to sail." Ted laughed and said no problem, he'll teach Not long after, Ted was in his apartment with Well, he took the head, not the rest of her. It's hard to walk around with bodies. Heads might not afford complete gratification, Later that same day, 19-year-old Denise Marie She was with two friends, feeling quite high She came out of the restroom after splashing man asked her for a favor. She agreed, and when she turned her back, Eight weeks later, some hunters found her This was massive news. A predator was abducting and killing pretty look and educational background. Sketches appeared in the newspapers again. Police knew this guy wore his arm in a cast. They had been told about the Beetle numerous They now had the name Ted on file. The only problem was they were blind to the were capable of killing. Year 14 - month 2 department, but to King County and also Salt She still kind of loves Ted. They speak on the phone a lot. But after seeing those sketches and reading handsome and well-spoken, well, she just put At one point, her colleague throws her a copy composite drawing. He says, "Don't you think this looks like Silence. He then asks, "Doesn't your Ted have a She also knows he always goes missing. She's seen women's panties in his drawers, It just has to be him. She doesn't see him much these days. When she does, it's always weird. Just recently, she woke up in the middle of at her. When she complained, she immediately apologized, She will later tell people: world; when I felt nothing from Ted, I felt Month 3 victim in Colorado is now too decomposed for He'd taken this young woman, Caryn Eileen woods. Now that winter is coming to an end, he wants So, he abducts 26-year-old Julie Cunningham This ski instructor has just been through After getting off the telephone with her mother, That's when she sees a man hobbling down She offers to help, and off they go toward When they get there, she turns her back. He hits her over the head with such force He then shoves her in the trunk, drives about As he opens the trunk, she's partly conscious, eyes. That's when he strangles her. He just leaves her body and only returns a In the next three months, he kills three more The victims are in Utah, Colorado, and Idaho. He's still banking on that linkage blindness Cops have now heard the name Ted many times. One of his former colleagues at the Department explicitly said the guy they are looking for Month 7 novel. They put names into a database, a computer life. The cops are getting in the region of 200 They put the name Ted into that database and Plus, they input all the names of the victims Thousands of names pop up, but one name is That is Ted Bundy. He is literally top of the pile, but Ted isn't He's in Utah. Ted decides to get baptized into The Church This makes him happy. He's not such a bad guy. God loves him. He's no saint, but not all bad, he thinks. Month 8 Sgt. Robert A. Hayward spots a gray Volkswagen car in a Salt Lake City suburb. He sees the same car a bit later, so he grows This looks like a prowler. He then goes after the car, only for it to They both run a stop sign when Hayward flashes The car attempts to get away and then pulls VW Beetles are not known for their speed. Hayward asks to see the man's license. He reads under his breath: Salt Lake City, Utah, DOB 11/24/46." Ted tells Hayward he's just been to see Hayward peers inwards to see a crowbar and because the guy doesn't look like a mechanic Then after some deputies arrive on the scene, kit. It's Ted's murder kit. They see a crowbar, some handcuffs, some rope, and another mask made from pantyhose. Not the kind of stuff someone takes to the guy could be a burglar. Back at the police station, a large-bodied dots. He not only remembers very clearly the DaRonch had received from a woman named Elizabeth He is aware that whoever killed Debra Kent DaRonch. At this point, Ted still thinks the cops are He doesn't think they'll get him, though, Over 20 police agencies in five states are as anything, knowing the police are far from After searching Ted's house, they have no They have nothing on him. It's just a pity they didn't find all of the bodies of his victims. His treasured trophy collection. Month 9 Cops in Utah fly out to Seattle. They speak to Elizabeth face to face. She tells them she always did wonder why her house when he wasn't injured. She tells them he always has plenty of plaster modeling. She says he isn't a surgeon and yet always He has big knives and meat cleavers, and yet dinner. As for the bags of women's clothes, well, In fact, come to think of it, it was really him staring at her neck. And why did he always get so angry when she Around this time, Ted sells his VW Beetle Now, police from all departments where Ted This guy has to be a killer. They get hold of his car from the student They find women's hair in there. Month 10 Witnesses from all over come into the station, this odious man out of a lineup. You don't easily forget the face of the As for the handcuffs she was wearing after found next to the car of a missing girl, Debra Her body has not been found. It won't be until 2015. But the key is key to charging Ted with something They now have enough to at least charge him It's a start. Still, they can't pin the bigger crimes when his parents pay his $15,000 bail. Strangely, now he spends most of his time house. Psycho Ted has no problem convincing her this Month 11 a maniac who's been on a killing spree throughout Detectives meet in Aspen, at what will later Year 15 - month 2 found guilty of her kidnapping. Month 5 years of his life in the Utah State Prison He's laughing inside. Month 10 of an escape. When guards pull him out of the bush he's an escape kit. He has somehow gotten his hands on a road security card. Ted still has people believing in his innocence, again. The same month, police have enough to charge They know he killed more people, a lot more, Year 16 - month 7 down. Since Ted is representing himself, by law, to wear shackles and handcuffs. This, he knows, will be of considerable help He's been getting a lot of support so far. He's written to his Republican friends saying police incompetence. He says he's scared for his life. Inmates are hardly nice to men that hurt women. His posh friends create the "Ted Bundy Defense As his trial approaches, he puts sticky notes Archipelago". He means to show the court what police oppression He will later admit that he was so proud of In jail, Ted eats only healthy food. He has a plan. He's working out and getting strong. He's jumping from the top bunk to practice He's gotten his hands on maps, and he's road in Aspen. He's back in court on June 7. He already knows that a window in the courthouse He knows he can safely jump from a second-story He's just had a haircut, so he looks quite He's hidden a red bandana in his pocket. He's also attached some matches and some them on his body. Under his brown corduroys, he has white tennis On top, he has a t-shirt hidden under some sweater. He's also wearing hiking socks under his He's ready for a long walk in the mountains. Even though he looks much bulkier than usual, seem to notice. One of the officers remarks about the lack confidently, "He's not going to try to During recess, Ted heads to the library. When he sees his chance, he jumps out of the Minutes later, a woman walks into the courthouse an officer, "A man just jumped out of the Ted is running as fast as his legs can take He jumps over a fence, runs down an alleyway two guys give him funny looks, and after running the Roaring Fork River runs through Aspen. A lot of people see him. His heart is beating out of his chest. But he's free, and he's staying free. When he gets to the foot of a mountain, he when he looks around, he's got a great view Bliss. The Seattle Times publishes a story the next "Theodore R. Bundy, former Seattleite charged murders of young women in Washington state floor of the Pitkin County courthouse in Aspen, An extensive manhunt began. About 100 officers and others were hunting town." Ted is high up in the mountains, loving the He feels so content. He keeps telling himself, "I'm not a fugitive. I'm not Ted Bundy." It's so peaceful up here. He wonders about his mother and Elizabeth of the fact that the tracking dogs sent to hiker going in another direction. Six days later, hungry and cold and with a and after stealing a car near Aspen Golf Course, Man, what a great experience that was while Month 11 in his innocence. She's madly in love with him. Her name is Carol Anne Boone. At this point, she is smuggling money in for He's on a strict diet. He's already lost about one-fifth of his He's skinny as anything, which will help Thanks to Boone, he has cash and a hacksaw Ted also has the floor plans of the jail, his cell and he knows from there he can get Month 12 after getting into the roof. He gets into the chief jailer's civilian Before fleeing, he placed a bunch of books he's fast asleep. This time he's not looking for natural beauty. He wants blood. Year 16 - month 1 it all the way to Florida. He gets a room close to the Florida State bad case of putting the cat among the pigeons. For a short time, he gets by stealing wallets work long term. What he wants now is one final dance with He's furious at everything, including his in an apartment block he considers is for This is the same man who, to get money, breaks TV, a Sony transistor radio, and a Smith-Corona He then gets into a 1976 Mustang and takes Why? He can't really sell them. He's just addicted to stealing. He always has been. For sustenance, he shoplifts jars of peanut items he can fit in his pockets. It's shortly after he steals a chicken and that he's seen close to the sorority house. As three female students are fast asleep in into their rooms one by one. He beats them wildly over the head, knocking He rips at one girl with his teeth. Some things are unmentionable, but even for These girls ended up looking like a ravenous Two of the three victims survive, but with He walks eight blocks and attacks another Later that night, Ted walks back to his apartment. There, as he's standing outside on some him. Later in court they testify, "He was in He wasn't doing anything. He was just standing there." That's Ted, relaxed and satiated after murder. Ted will explain in time to an interviewer of a man. He said, "The more an actor acts in a role, apt to feel comfortable in it, to be able Month 2 her from Lake City Junior High School in Florida. One minute she'd told a teacher in her homeroom next she was gone. She'd fallen for that old Ted Bundy confidence For this, her throat is slit with a sharp A few days later, out on the prowl looking driving a stolen car when he's pulled over. This isn't long after he's run from a with stolen credit cards. He'd also been thrown out of a bar after The bartender spotted him, and soon Ted was There was literally nowhere for him to go He's drunk out of his mind. He knows this is the end of his time on the The cop who pulls him over questions him outside the legs and runs as the officer fires warning He doesn't get far and is soon tackled to police car. This Florida cop has no idea who he has in He is not aware that he is currently carrying Ted knows the jig is up. That's why he says to the officer, "I Month 5 It says, "I have killed no one. Outside of a few minor thefts, I have done is completely one-sided, nothing but accusation authorities." Month 8 More bodies are given the Ted Bundy signature. Ted calls for his lawyer. From his cell, he says, "I want you to explore Year 17 way they certainly wouldn't write about hustlers. The tone in the articles feels almost exculpatory. The New York Times writes a story with the The article says, "He seemed so relaxed was natural for a young man with two years' The general gist is, how could such a nice do such bad things? It will be decades until academic papers and live among us in positions of power. Year 18 EYES ON BUNDY." The story starts: a resident of Washington, a convict of Utah, is now perhaps the most famous criminal defendant During the trial in Florida, Ted marries Boone. He'd read in some law book that, despite possible during a trial. This marriage takes place after witnesses crawl. One survivor explains, "I had five skull The eighth nerve was damaged, and I lost the And I had a broken jaw, and my left shoulder Boone doesn't believe a word of it, or at that. Year 19 One reads, "Ted Should Be Dead." Another says, "Juice Ted's Caboose." The court hears that Ted was a traumatized His aunt Julia, now a grown woman, explains in her blankets as she slept at night. Psychiatrists talked about his depressed grandmother This is what created Ted's bipolarity, they Ted is handed the death penalty. It's the third time this has been handed But this will be the last one. Ted is now a celebrity killer, despite being caused unimaginable pain to so many families. The courtroom is always filled with women style of Ted's preferred victims. These women are being called Bundy groupies. Even after the heinous things Ted has done, in a way he certainly would not speak to a Ted is also still fooling people, continuing when the judge tells him: "It's a tragedy for this course to see bright young man. You'd have made a good lawyer. Take care of yourself. I don't have any animosity toward you. I want you to know that. Take care." Year 20 That comes as some surprise to everyone. Some people believe Ted and Carol Boone sneaked looking or when the guard was away. Others believe Ted had squirted his life juice which she artificially inseminated herself Year 23 Science Unit visit Ted numerous times. They want to know what makes a serial killer. One time, Ted tells an agent, "The fisherman But I can take you there without you drowning. If I trust you. And if I decide." Speaking of killing, Ted explains: They are part of you. After a while, when you plan these, that person one...You feel the last bit of breath leaving and basically, a person in that situation You then possess them, and they shall forever Little by little, he tells them of other victims, bodies he caressed and slept with after shampooing Year 27 murders, but he's certainly killed more Maybe even 100, but likely closer to 50. He's now finished talking to reporters, He's admitted what he used to do with those for him to admit because it's so disgusting. Last day He's refused to eat the last meal of steak At age 42, right before Ted takes his final how warped and out of touch he is when in give my love to my family and friends." The executioner sends 2,000 volts of current His fists clench as his body jolts. After a minute, a paramedic walks over to The silence is deafening. A few minutes later, Dr. Frank Kilgo walks from the head. As the witnesses watch still in shock, some dead." Now you need to hear about the ones that got Finally Got Caught." Or, have a look at "Who is Zodiac Killer, Things Him or Her (Compilation)." 7