- February 1st, 2004, Houston, Texas, 8:30 PM Eastern Standard Time. Over 150 million people were watching the annual featuring Janet Jackson During the show, Justin was supposed to rip as part of the planned dance choreography. But for some reason, something went wrong, and Justin accidentally and let's just say a on live national television. The incident became a across the country, and Janet actually got because people felt she with many of the outlets censoring the video they featured, which, as you could imagine, particularly men, for obvious reasons. That same year, a much more devastating where a huge earthquake created a massive tsunami just one day after Christmas. It became one of the deadliest in human history, and sure enough, a huge portion Although these incidents are unrelated, at the time, they shared It was really, really hard to even on the internet. At around this time, three young men, Chad Hurley, Jawed Karim, and Steve Chen, were working for a They were quite satisfied with their jobs. The 2002 acquisition of PayPal by eBay allowed the three employees Hurley worked as a even creating the PayPal logo, and Karim and Chen both Needless to say, they but still, they recognized that was occurring online. Why was it so freaking hard Now, in hindsight, this answer Many online communities would and violent content of this nature, especially since online bandwidth was quite limited at the time for a digital medium such as video. If they could use video, might as well use it for more Because of these factors, there really weren't a ton of videos you could find on the internet, especially in comparison So what was there to do? Well, the answer to that question would allegedly be found at a dinner party at Chen's San Francisco apartment in which Karim and Hurley also attended. I say allegedly because Karim said that no such In fact, none of the three founders could ever fully agree on But anyway, according to legend, at this dinner party, the three guys just started showing each and thought to themselves, &quot;Hey, these videos are pretty cool. How could we easily share I mean, do we really have The file is too big to This reminded them of their struggles to find those videos of Janet and that was when they had a revelation. What if we created a website where people didn't have to for a specific video? Instead, they could just The boys got to work on and a website called youtube.com was born. Now, this is the story about how YouTube started, and while it certainly is true, it gets a lot more complicated YouTube was by no means created on Taco Night. It was a rough, rigorous process filled with ingenious competition against both other companies and a technologically limited legal battles, maybe Surely something that can't Absolutely not, and don't call me Shirley. Which is why I would like to This is YouTube History. (logo chimes) Firstly, YouTube was not the Not even close. Sites like ShareYourWorld, StupidVideos, and even So what was so special about YouTube? Well, all these sites and this problem was the reason it was still so hard to find technological limitation. Now, this was due to many factors such as bandwidth, upload In the early 2000s, the internet This was a time where people still thought 50 kilobytes and where many were even The idea of a website that was just too ambitious and therefore very selective as to what kind of content And even if you did and internet speed to upload such a video, the files could only be a certain size, you could only upload a and, most importantly, it had Oh, your video is an AVI file? Well, we only take MPEG. Too bad, so sad. Running a website costs especially hosting big files like video. Not to mention that the were not spectacular with So yes, video-sharing sites did exist, but they were just very and that was why it was still And these were all issues that were more or less The three were already working just under a different vision. &quot;Tune in, hook up.&quot; That's right. YouTube This would explain the dropdown menu featured on the first design for the site, but there is some discrepancy as to whether this was the slogan or even the original name of the website. But regardless, it took great inspiration from an already popular where users could upload and you would rate, MySpace It was basically this but with video. You couldn't search these videos, they would show up at random, and it was just people briefly The idea didn't catch on except it required more Didn't really make sense. The founders got so desperate, they even tried paying to put their own videos on the platform just to get the ball rolling. But even with these undesirable results, there was one unknowingly This was user-generated content being uploaded to the site in video form. Perhaps this is where could find its new home. The three boys realized what and the domain name youtube.com was registered on Valentine's Day of 2005. They were so excited about the idea, they were willing to put They certainly wouldn't be In fact, a term was coined who left PayPal to start their called the PayPal Mafia. The founders' roles in reflected their positions at PayPal. Hurley would focus on the such as how the website would look, and even create the company's logo, and Karim and Chen focused on the code and getting the thing to The technical details of how the site was coded and put together will be its own separate video. But it was created just And then on April 25th, 2005, the website officially entered public beta when Karim uploaded the very called Me at the zoo, which he filmed at the San Diego Zoo. And instead of advertising they would focus on a new angle which would be integral It's Flickr for video. This would be the phrase thrown around in everyday conversation when people were being On Flickr, you could and the site would host Now that YouTube had this it didn't limit what There was something very that allowed it to blow its It took advantage of a very fast-growing and popular technology As long as you had this not only could you view the video online without having to download it, you could upload whatever videos The file type did not matter. This was a huge deal at the time because now you could upload well, without being a computer whiz. Flyers were put up around In fact, some of the would be from Stanford students. And even word of mouth got people to know about this new website. And before they knew it, YouTube now had their own headquarters, an office above a pizzeria And the website grew Its recognition would even even being featured on the news. During a segment on the co-hosts Leo Laporte and Amber MacArthur pose a very interesting question. - A lot of people don't A lot of people wanna go to the website and actually view the - [Leo] How much? - Free. - [Leo] What? - Yeah, it's completely free. - [Leo] It's free? - Yeah, it's completely free. - How? Who's paying for the bandwidth? That's amazing. - [Leo] Yeah. - That's a great point. Who is paying for it? How on Earth were three guys hosting thousands and thousands of clips with pretty much no problems and for free? Well, according to Hurley, YouTube at the time was using a hosting and they apparently had some special deal where they were giving at an affordable price, and so they greatly But of course not even and as the site got bigger, they would need to find a more These three did something and although the practice it was the method that stood out, the use of venture capitalists. Keep in mind, these three were living so at the very beginning, being able to fund the storage cost for a site like YouTube out of pocket really isn't that unusual. But as YouTube began to grow rapidly, way beyond what they expected within just the first six months or so, bandwidth demand would So the only way to get more But rather than asking through premium subscriptions, they sought out private equity funding from Sequoia Capital in November of 2005, roughly $3 1/2 million, which was just enough to keep them afloat until another company But let's not get ahead of ourselves. So it was the vision, the website's genius use of Adobe Flash, the funding from venture capitalists, and the fact that it was free that made YouTube destroy the But there was one other thing, that's pretty much overlooked, timing. While I am not the I do believe in perfect where the outcome can based on how the subject behaves. In Malcolm Gladwell's &quot;Outliers,&quot; he makes a very interesting point regarding the success of What do Steve Jobs, Bill and Andy Bechtolsheim all have in common? They were all born in 1955 just a couple months This might seem like a mundane point, but consider the fact that all of them would've been 20 years old by 1975, meaning they would all be with their whole lives ahead of them that are finally on their own just as the personal Gladwell argues that if just a year later, he likely wouldn't have founded Apple. Of course, this is all and Gladwell goes a lot deeper than that. But the point is that the and even the era you are living in determine your success in some ways. Let's use the British Invasion The Beatles' Ed Sullivan performance happened at exactly the right time. If you want the details for why, I made a video all about it, Click, click here. The point is that happened, then a million other British and also became insanely If The Beatles had shown or even later, the outcome could have We even saw this with ChatGPT. As soon as ChatGPT came out, there was an explosion The year 2005 was to start a video-sharing website. It was the creek that divided the Internet's and the new, innovative social media age that we've come to recognize today, and YouTube was the bridge. Some things are just meant to and the one who is the most brilliant at convincing people that And because of YouTube's and methods of getting it rose to the top drastically. Just a month later, and a bunch of other but YouTube had that And with video streaming-friendly such as Windows XP holding and with smartphones becoming the demand for online video became less complicated so running a website like YouTube just wasn't so hard anymore. These things were the catalyst Despite YouTube having a and being much more popular, all of these video-sharing sites were used for roughly the same thing, as digital video repositories. Instead of keeping everything on tape or on DVDs that sit on your shelf, you could access them and even share them with your Minimal effort and no But just like most things in the more time it gives So people really started to notice that. They start uploading comedy skits, fictional storytelling, entertainment. Maybe there was a way It was during this time early adopters started creating the world's first-ever online collaborative video community. Collaborations? Something I'd never do. I'm not a sellout. I'm not some cheap guy who take over my channel Never, ever. - YouTube may have been born but something magical happened as the winds of change As YouTube and its user base grew, people realized it was not but to connect, share stories, This is where the concept of These were individuals had the power to shape They were the new-age They were accessible, YouTube became their stage, and the world was their audience. The platform evolved where content creators and that were never possible One of the earliest and most was Ian Hecox and Anthony Padilla, the dynamic duo known as Smosh. They were just ordinary with a shared sense of humor, but they had a knack for creating content that resonated with a generation looking for something fresh and relatable. Their early videos were simple, often just them lip syncing but it was their energy, their that made them stand out. Smosh became a phenomenon. They were not just making videos. They were shaping a They showed what was possible They were innovators and But here's the core of such a perfect match, community. YouTube allowed Smosh and in return, Smosh helped They grew together. As YouTube continued to grow, it became evident that it Peter Oakley, known as geriatric1927, was a testament to this. Unlike the energetic energy of Smosh, Peter's content was a He shared stories from his life, his thoughts on various topics, YouTube provided him with and he, in turn, provided to those who watched his videos. And the community embraced him. They found comfort and ease in his words. They found a friend. Peter's presence on YouTube He showed that in 2005, social media was far more He demonstrated that age is just a number, and wisdom and connection are timeless. Another early YouTube also known as LisaNova. She entertained and broke barriers for female content creators. But what set LisaNova apart? Well, I'd have to say it was and her ability to create She was bold, she was funny, and she was unapologetically herself. Before the birth of YouTube, the comedy scene, was heavily male-dominated. Opportunities for female comedians YouTube changed the game. It gave creators like LisaNova a platform where they didn't have to wait for someone to give them a chance. They could take the chance on themselves. LisaNova seized this opportunity. Her channel grew rapidly, and she became one of the to gain significant popularity on YouTube. Of course, these are just a that shaped the YouTube scene There are countless others. And as YouTube grew, so did the amount of its From a simple video repository YouTube became a platform for connection, entertainment, innovation, - And just like that, and it all happened before as it would officially go on December 15th, 2005. And YouTube recognized this very much. If this was the direction then it had to take on more personality than being just a video repository, and this would be such as changing the They were no longer Ditching the ugly online archive look and adopting the highly very akin to MySpace pages. You could even add filmmaker roles to it, your entire personality on one page. And other outside forces were really starting to see the potential of this new website, and so a new company a sort of acquisition, But I'm afraid we're gonna But the fact remains, right now, I can put food on the table quite literally because There are some things that So that was YouTube History. I really hope you all liked it. My friend Zack is going to Please go check out his channel, especially if you are into His videos are fantastic. I know I don't really talk to you, I'm usually talking at you, but I'm really excited about this series. The plan is to do this weekly. We'll see where that goes. I'm really working on it. I'm gonna do the best I can to so from like 2005 onwards. I may not always do that, though, in case I, like, forget a but I will do the best I can to make the playlist chronological. So if you really wanna watch, like, the ultimate YouTube watch it in order from the playlist that I have on the channel. You'll find it on the channel somewhere. But just stay tuned. Some of the stories I'll are just insane, some of them even anecdotal, like that time I may or may not have almost taken YouTube like, over a decade ago. We'll get there, we'll get there, but we've still got a ways to go. Anyway, I'm really looking and I will see you all soon. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please subscribe and click so that you never miss a future video.