10 Minutes To Impact "I warned you! I won't warn you again!" Michael serves as a peep hole on the shelter door. the rhythmic pounding of a sledgehammer on the small shelter. Outside that door, a man locking mechanism to the shelter door. "I told you weeks ago to prepare, I told you responsible for you and your family, I won't be peep hole, the man pounding outside the door thirty-ought-six. The barrel's large for a rifle, "I've got my family out here, public shelter's The rhythmic pounding continues, the hammer the underground shelter protected from whatever "Robert. Get... away... from... this... door... I won't warn you again..." The pounding Michael turns to look behind him, nodding at darling, cover your ears." The eight year old girl her mother clutches her close and puts her hands son, Luke, and simply nods. The asteroid still as panic set in when the general population At sixteen years old, Luke was old enough Luke nods at his father. Michael lifts the rifle to the peep hole and He doesn't have to aim, his target Bam! The rifle thunders inside the small, cramped degree. Luke gasps, face white with terror, to squeeze out of the corner of his eyes. Michael pulls the rifle back inside the shelter, in the service fighting in the deserts of both but this one- it's just plain wrong. This was portable grill for a family camping trip. But that Outside the door there's a single, soft sob, and Michael presses an eye back up against underground corridor his grandfather had dug "Carol... I'm... I'm so sorry. Carol, listen, I begged him to stop. I- we just can't. We don't You knew, you knew! For weeks you know Carol stands in shock, tears streaming from her "Carol. Carol! You have to go, darling. You have Find a home with a basement or a parking garage She doesn't reply. Instead, walks back up the twenty feet of stairs Inside the shelter, Michael sighs and slumps back of his hands, but he pulls himself together. going to survive what was coming next, if anyone Michael joins his wife sitting gently pulling Lily's fingers out that's it. You don't have to plug your "Daddy, I heard a gunshot." "I know, baby, I-" "-dad was just warning off Mr. Trucker is all." approval at him. Then, he turns his attention to "Luke, go on and fetch that old radio, will you?" Luke nods. The radio's practically ancient at this here in preparation for the end of the world. It which they have plenty of. With what the experts radio will be the only means of communications on TV have predicted, Luke's not sure there'll He shakes those thoughts away and cranks the still broadcasting. Whoever is on the other probably figuring there wasn't much millions of people crowd the streets just... waiting for the end. Some of them some- like Mr. Trucker and his wife- were "-is believed to be sheltering Rocky Mountains along with his cabinet The mountains are largely made of very tough hoped- that it'll afford at least some protection course on exactly where the asteroid hits. discovery of Aester-2022, with some believing and others sure it will strike a few dozen miles Michael grabs the radio from his son and turns happen in either event as it's all the media discovery of Aester-2022. Regardless of where And yet, here he was, huddled with his family dug with his own two hands. What else was he taking the easy way out as soon as two weeks If there was a chance, he The knob finally lands on another station. "-this very troubling time. Friends, I don't is judgment day for us all, the end of times, or all I hope is that you have lived a thirty eight seconds until impact, I leave you my hope is that we forget the things that and never forget what made our civilization great: "...amen." Michael whispers to himself his eyes locked on the door. He cranks the power knob and turns the radio off, seating himself between his wife and his son. been brave ever since the family packed into the Michael kisses her on the forehead and He puts his arms around his family and "Everyone, go ahead and close equalize the air pressure and plug your ears." IMPACT A massive asteroid the size of Rhode Island Its collision course with the earth puts it on to penetrate our atmosphere somewhere off The asteroid physically compresses air in front rides just in front and below the asteroid. it lights up the sky over Portugal and The shockwave is so intense that as it flies couldn't find shelter or decided the impact down to the ground by the force of the passing the shockwave below it is so intense that people About thirty four seconds after first of the atmosphere, the asteroid slams straight separate Spain from France. Predicting fast moving object was always difficult, and the In the first nanosecond before impact, the immediately incinerates any plants, animals, The air is so compressed in front of smashes into the rocky terrain with enough Then the rock itself actually strikes. In an instant, the asteroid and half a of rock are vaporized. Then the shockwave and melt rock in the impact zone The shockwave propagates through the and completely tears apart any living The mighty Pyrenese mountains as a crater a hundred miles across quickly forms, The shockwaves continue racing out and hit minute of impact. Buildings, vehicles, by the force of the shockwave, torn to At about the same time, a massive plume of molten crater. Trillions of tons of molten lava fire space around the earth rocks from the impact have leave earth's orbit. Some will end up catching millions of years. Others will float forever in Still others will end up crash landing on The massive lava plume comes crashing back down the sky, and washes over an area dozens of square survived the shockwave of impact will now be The shockwave continues to propagate out out to Portugal in the east and Paris in Mediterranean sea massive tsunamis half a hundred miles an hour. The water will reach and destroy the entire southern mediterranean way to Turkey, where its seaside communities Tens of trillions of tons of vaporized created by the impact and spread This will turn the air poisonous across but trade winds will eventually bring the of the US and the Middle East. By then it'll however- but for Europeans without breathing Billions of tons of molten rocks hurled up into again. This meteor rain of half-molten lava will starting massive fires across every continent die from this deadly rain as it smashes into humanity has ever witnessed- the fires will 28 Minutes After Impact It starts with a slow tremor, and then suddenly, shelter with enough force to physically pick Lily screams as she's hurled out of an instant and nobody is seriously hurt. he's prepared them for this and The shockwave of the impact circles The second time though it was much of the shelf for a bit before passing on. It'll losing exponentially more energy with each The first rock falls with a thundering crash them. Michael does the calculations and figures house. The shelter is about thirty five feet from He's pretty sure they're safe, but he becomes seriously concerned about but it's raining mountains over the American "Everybody hang on to each other!" He shouts as then hugs in his wife and Luke. as the deadly rain of ballistic rock 6 Hours After Impact It stopped raining rocks half hour ago, but he supposes there is nothing to do but survey the Luke. Reflexively he reaches for his rifle and Maybe in case there's other people desperate him and his family. However, after hours of it open could have survived. Or anyone sheltering He opens the peep hole on the door and looks the outside hasn't collapsed. He was worried the shelter just in case. The door itself worse by the fact that his dead neighbor's As the pair emerge from the shelter, Michael Seeing what remains will make it But he opens them as acrid smoke hits What he sees is nothing short of complete, has come to earth, his former suburban It had promised to be a bright, sunny summer day Few clouds in the sky, but not enough to compete reels from the sight of it all- the sky above rising up across the entire American east coast. on a lake and are moving quickly across the sky turmoil even hours after impact, and in a day ash Michael has no way of knowing though many scientists had predicted as much. The family home is nothing but ash. The everything but the concrete foundation and had thankfully made them short lived though, relatively safe. All over the ground lay shards high enough into the atmosphere to cool before shredding anything- and anyone in the In the distance where the city skyline Luke can see are the skeletal remains of a few It's difficult to see more than that due to Coughing and choking, the two quickly Michael whispers a silent thank you to his install an air filtration system in what was 1 Week After Impact There are still batteries for the radio, but There would be no point, nobody was transmitting could still pick up transmissions from pummeled by the initial impact. However, all massive wildfires which run completely unchecked through major cities, and the notoriously Before the last radio station went down they had possibly Germany. Incredibly, somebody but the news wasn't good. Hundreds of millions dead across Europe and Africa from tsunamis, the The air outside the shelter is still not safe to ash and toxic vapors given off by the burning of and other chemical products that make up our overtime, and Michael thanks his grandfather daily doubt though, anyone not inside a shelter with a sometimes turn to his neighbo rCarol... but he There's six months worth of food and water in the claustrophobic, but the family has no choice. It's Three Months After Impact Michael takes in a gulp of air. It's not fresh At least it no longer smells of cooked flesh. nothing he can do about it as the shelter's Staying in the shelter is no longer "Luke, go ahead and bring your sister and mother former neighbor, Michael had personally removed This is Lily's first time out of the shelter in the slightly toxic atmosphere. Michael do for her. He'd like to go and find but there doesn't seem to be anything left to Maybe there's something "Honey, stay here with Lily. maybe we can make some kind of above ground around dejectedly. What kind of shelter can she But she quickly recomposes herself, "Luke, you and I will head into the city, Luke nods slowly. Michael feels but they have to at least try. Surely the The hike into the city is more difficult the molten slag heaps that are all that remains Most of what's left is ash though, with sticking out of the remains Visibility has improved, but not by much. he knows the downtown area of the city tall buildings that used to rule its skyline knocked over by the massive windstorms that Every mile that passes Michael something. He's not sure what. Just anything. But each mile brings more disappointment. He knows where the major shopping centers are by the fires have completely gutted even the never seen fires on this scale, only the dinosaurs After a few more miles Michael son. Let's just... let's just go back. Luke doesn't reply, he merely nods going and much like the rest of the family, That night the family has their first dinner their heads due to the cloud cover. Dust and aloft for years- maybe as much as a decade. world a few degrees, and the wind bites with extra The world won't descend into an ice age as the effects of global warming and drop global The family is quiet as they eat, each lost in they are, but though none of them will admit There are no 'safe zones' from an extinction level for the west, heading towards the far mountains they have no idea that nothing but The fires have killed over half of the remained has been dying for months from lack of Their only hope is to find pockets of Maybe there they can find more canned goods to out or go bad, and there's no knowing if either and plants and trees return or not. There's and well planned long-term survival shelters where In all likelihood, humanity won't go extinct was though? That is doubtful. What's been rebuilds it'll have scores of lost knowledge to industrial revolution it'll discover that all world has already been greedily sucked up by their to grow advanced enough to mass-produce For Michael and his family though, and each day looks a little bleaker than the last. Now you need to watch "Can You Survive A Or, have a look at "What Would Happen