[INTRO] Yugoslavia's breakup is often overshadowed protests in the PRC, yet its effects can still by those living in that region, to the gap own president as 1 country with 2 alphabets, 6 republics, surrounded by 7 neighbours, with talk about how and why Yugoslavia. Had. Been. [HISTORY OF THE PEOPLES] But before we can about how the country was created. Yugoslavia region of the world had been ruled by foreign Austro-Hungarian Empire. But most of the people or Ottoman... They were slavic. And slavs its own culture, history, and traditions. idea of a unified state inhabited by slavic idea came about around the same time countries countries, with their unification also, in and Germans each had their own unique ethnic Yugoslav idea: While Serbia and Montenegro in 1878, most of what would become Yugoslavia the Austro-Hungarian Empire wasn't going so slavs could have their own nation right [CORFU] But then WW1 happened. {PAUSE AND were occupied by the Austro-Hungarian Empire And there, in 1917, leaders of montenegro, regions of Slovenia, Croatia, Vojvodina, and join together to form a new nation. A nation and Slovenes. liked the idea of breaking up the Astro-Hungarian [ACTUAL FORMATION] And by the end of WW1, were revolutions in Vienna and Budapest, the of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Czechia and after... And in the midst of this breakup, its own independence, Serbia and Montenegro together to officially form the Kingdom of few more territories were added to the kingdom the Monastery of St. Naum. of naming their country wasn't very catchy With "jug" meaning "south" and "slaveni" called "the land of the south slavs"... because "south slavs" is too much of a THAT IN THE RECORDING}. because in 1941 Hungary, Germany, and Italy army surrendered... its people did not. Instead, of all the occupied nations in Europe. By completely kick out the axis forces from their at the very end of the war... Because Yugoslavia no foreign liberation. communist. {PLAY FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE} So they turned Yugoslavia into a socialist nation of Yugoslavia. They also gave their old flag This new nation was founded on three basic within the country as equals through the idea from foreign occupation. The second, was that socialism. And thirdly, that the country was with a large degree of autonomy. They were: Macedonia, and Croatia... And looking at Croatia's chess grandmasters for such a small country. Kosovo were granted autonomy, while still While there were other foundations upon which were the most important. And it is also these breakup of Yugoslavia. Because the fall of it's a combination of various issues which Yugoslavia is no different in this regard. political system. {PLAY FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE} a close friend of the Soviet Union and the of the nation. But in 1948 the country politically the leaders of the two countries disagreed two nations should be. In the 60s and 70s, system by handing over more and more control individual republics. These changes included, autonomous regions more control over their in the central government and giving the individual from the national army. during this time: the presidency. After WW2, of Yugoslavia and retained this position until part of the national government and was an But there is a large problem with relying of your government, rather than relying on loses an election, or a prime minister falls somebody else while the institution of the In Yugoslavia, the country relied on a single and there was nobody to replace him as president. a collective presidency. This meant that the each get 1/8 of the presidency and would need before the country relied on a single person relied on 8 different groups of people ruling collective decisions. And these 8 different future of Yugoslavia and their place within in which they would likely have gotten a disproportionate for itself, such as becoming a 7th republic republic and wanted a more liberal Yugoslavia; of the country and wanted more control over money to poorer regions; Bosnia-Herzegovina With all these different political forces, goals, the country became less and less manageable The second major factor leading to the breakup such as China and the Soviet Union the leadership in Yugoslavia the government tried a lot harder be an effective means at providing wealth philosophy if it proved ineffective at achieving to avoidable famines and the USSR through types of destructive policies in its country... At first, Yugoslavia was similar to other large parts of the economy directly, with are managed, how resources are distributed, leadership soon realized it would be more as they had greater knowledge and expertise And so Yugoslavia reformed its economy over socialist economy in the world at that time. of 4 main aspects: market mechanisms, whereby decentralised decision-making, where businesses social ownership, where employees of a business they worked at; and worker's self-management, a business were the ones making the decisions who bought a part of the company without ever While these are generally quite good economic makes sure that there are enough products to find ways to make those products cheaper are generally more profitable than businesses But it's the implementation of this system didn't get to directly vote on decisions were run by so-called 'management boards'. board, then you needed the votes of your colleagues... many it was to promise higher salaries. And went up... and this might seem like a great people instead of rich CEOs. But a business needs to manage. And eventually the salaries out of money. many decided they didn't want to lower salaries now all across Yugoslavia prices were going salary was going up... but so were the prices useless. This increase in prices is called keep up with this inflation and went bankrupt... providing welfare for the unemployed, giving and trying to keep the economy from collapsing. cold war came to an end in the late 1980s. right between the capitalist west and the to join their side, or at the very least, by giving Yugoslavia money... This was a common countries so they will be on your side, or late 1980s the Soviet Union was breaking apart a result, the Soviet Union sent less money if the USSR wasn't sending that much money anymore to do the same. And so all of a sudden from other countries. were being mismanaged, and the government everything under control... And so they decided for this... But the problem with loans is believe you will pay those loans back with worse, that belief was evaporating. Soon people more money. And so how could Yugoslavia get investors were no longer willing to give them Well, they went to an organisation called short. This is an organisation owned by various sells loans to countries... But they were if the country would reform its economy and could repay this loan. These reforms included private businesses not run by workers unions market, and various other minor changes. While repay debt, it also creates large issues for provided a lot of money to people and businesses but if the government has to spend less money, And changing your economic system is also And this is where the politics were making republics and an additional 2 autonomous regions, how to implement the IMF's demands in order a bit of wealth inequality. The average person person living in Kosovo. So while Slovenia Ireland, Kosovo was on par with third world This economic inequality caused quite a bit Richer regions such as Slovenia and Croatia building up a healthy economy while poorer and Montenegro spent their money on inefficient therefore, those southern regions should take economies with the most inefficient governments. argued that Yugoslavia should have a unified equal responsibility no matter how rich or reforms were slow and the economy of Yugoslavia early 90s. that was facing Yugoslavia: ethnic tensions. living within its borders. An ethnic group cultural or national tradition. Such as, for African Americans of the USA, or the Han Chinese Yugoslavia had several officially recognized Croats, Macedonians, Montenegrins, and later recognized as an official ethnicity came with express your religion, you would receive free ethnicity, and they were given their own ethnic republics and autonomous regions were drawn the different ethnicities lived... But this to move to other places and by the 1980s the At the same time, there were ethnicities which example were the Albanians who lived in Kosovo. or Montenegrins... yet weren't recognized felt like second-class citizens in their own which were put down by the military. the ever-growing ethnic tension for their leader, a man named Slobodan Miosevic. And envisioned a Greater Serbia. In this 'new' would be added to the Serbian Republic. Ethnic-Serbs living in Yugoslavia, meaning there were many majority. The goal was for Yugoslavia to become One of the ways it sought to control Yugoslavia one for each of the republics and autonomous were within Serbia. So the first thing it control their seats of the presidency. Then thus controlling 4 out of the 8 seats of the that wasn't explicitly in Serbia's interest no major policies could be passed without And so by now it's 1990 and Yugoslavia is and autonomous regions couldn't agree on was in a recession without clear solutions, And so Croatia and Slovenia decided that they by ethnic Serbians, didn't want to pay for and didn't want to be part of a country policy issues. The Yugoslav constitution gave a majority of that republic voted in favour. independence in 1990, each passed said referendum, on June 25th, 1991. And so the people of Croatia Be. Divided. someone: they might not let you go so easily... and Slovenia, it meant that Serbia had substantial and autonomous regions. So what did the Serbian still wanted to create a 'Greater Serbia' Serb. So while Croatia was trying to become counter-revolution by the ethnic-Serbs by would persecute ethnic Serbs living in Croatia. independence, Serbs started blockading roads targets, and the Yugoslav army provided air Yugoslav Wars began. While Yugoslavia tried subduing Slovenia, fighting when the European Community, a precursor But Croatia was not so lucky. And so it managed had control over to hold off the Yugoslav about a quarter of its territory. year, Macedonia, now called North Macedonia, it, and seceded from Yugoslavia 2.5 weeks remain at peace with Yugoslavia and did not had seceded. its own referendum, also voted in favour, 1992. But they also had a large Serbian population... while Croatian forces came to support the With only 2 republics and 2 autonomous regions decided to create their own Yugoslavia, removing itself the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. and Croatia would be the major battlegrounds committed genocide, filled mass graves, and years. The death toll is estimated to be around becoming refugees. started to get seriously involved in the Yugoslav Even early on, it was predicted that the Yugoslav something those European countries weren't a sea shared with Italy, a prominent member keep the region stable... And it might destabilize Central Europe was going through a major social, Community at first tried peace negotiations... with Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. And so NATO was a military alliance between primarily countries at the time. Many countries who also a member of NATO. With a resolution from where civilians would be protected from the to prevent the Yugoslav air force from bombing This war eventually ended in 1995, when NATO and Bosnian forces managed to kick the Serbian sued for peace. In November 1995, the war This peace accord included letting 60.000 would become a federation consisting of a would get to keep Kosovo... Although Kosovo But... the country still hadn't completely still united. But over the next decade separatism and decided in 2006 to hold a referendum on votes in favour, Serbia and Montenegro officially And there was one final matter to address: to let the atrocities go unpunished, and so to put various people on trial who were suspected Tribunal was called the... {AUDIBLE BREATH Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia". and prime ministers to common soldiers and In total, 161 people were indicted for various 91 were convicted, 13 cases were transferred countries, 20 indictments were withdrawn, you'd like me to do a video on these trials is currently appealing their conviction, but on whether I should cover these trials. The which the institution ceased to exist. [OUTRO] If you liked this video then please Next video will be about North and South Korea. make after that, link in the description. half the time, so this time NO EUROPEANS ALLOWED!