If the universe is as we think a sort of closed system and that that horizon behaves roughly Any self-contained system, if it satisfies laws of physics, entropy will increase until it comes to thermal equilibrium. Once it comes to thermal equilibrium, um... not much happens. Thermal equilibrium is extremely boring. It really is a dead world. However, the classical story of the increase of entropy misses Quantum entanglement is still evolving, things keep happening. We propose the second law of to the second law of thermodynamics. This is a really provocative suggestion. It struck me as something that did not compute. They came to the conclusion... old Lenny used to be a good physicist, he got into this complexity story, The standard laws of physics are given their most rigorous stress tests black holes. On top of the much buzzed about work in the 20th century. A new enigma has appeared having to do are on the inside. About a decade ago, Stanford physicist, spacetime of a black hole is so warped This appears to conflict that bring a glass of ice water Those laws say that entropy at which point things in the universe, including black holes, should stop A fate referred to as a &quot;heat death.&quot; At this point, why would Susskind and his collaborators and in doing so, for the near infinite expansion My friend, who was my friend he would close his eyes And then when he would convert that to mathematics. I don't have the mind of a mathematician, I have the mind of an auto mechanic. What works is what's practical, but sometimes you need some mathematics. I learned about black holes, about black holes that had nothing to do But there was a puzzling feature We had these pictures, they were called Penrose Diagrams. It's a kind of map of the whole universe, The black hole is over here. Time goes upward. The interior of the black hole The interior of the black hole It bounced and it started to grow. And I didn't know what And I gave up, I would ask my friends, Black hole experts - I don't know... it's just the volume of the black hole. Okay. Physicists a concept that has a long history Entropy was invented by people who wished to understand of steam engines And what they were interested of the working gas in their engine. So this was both a important theoretical That is the story, though, of entropy - that this disorder of the system But for Susskind, something didn't fit. I knew that it wasn't entropy of the black hole On the other hand, and you could see that expansion So if you start with black coffee and milk and mix them together, it's not going to have at least, as far as the intermixing And in fact, it'll look at least like the arrow of time has stopped, the thermodynamic arrow of time The system is now in a heat There is no longer However, that is not the end of the story thermodynamic equilibrium, Complex systems are characterized by individual parts leading to phenomena like non-linearity, randomness, and emergence. Sensing that complexity might be at the root of the explanation for why black holes Susskind and his collaborators turned to the mathematics Feynman taught us states of a system is enormously large. If you have a certain number of qubits, the number of orthogonal quantum states of that system What that means, is that for example, system will take an enormously long time to explore the entire space of states. It will start out at some simple state and start much, much longer time than it takes All of a sudden it would be bang - the complexity of a quantum state just long, long past the time when the system And that this size of the interior of the complexity When that hit me, I suddenly got really, really interested in the concept So a classical system, we basically describe it like, Oh, I have a bunch of bits I can just describe them individually But for a quantum system, We, we cannot describe the system and then describe the second cubit and locally, there might not be information they might be in some highly Entanglement is the key to so large for a quantum system. Working with his Stanford colleague that even after the interior of a black hole because of the ever increasing complexity Meaning that there's life after heat, And to make they borrowed a longstanding concept from computer known as Circuit Complexity. Originally formulated to measure the Quantum circuit complexity had become for a new theory attempting to explain that wasn't without its critics. I first heard that there was a connection being drawn between circuit complexity way back when I was in grad school, when Lenny Susskind and his collaborators that circuit complexity might be playing And when you first hear this is a computer scientist, Lenny had formulated And what I found hard to believe about it is that he was equating something with something that, as a complexity theorist, un-physical: Quantum Circuit Complexity. That's something I'm not sure we have particular To put Susskind and Brown's Quantum to the test. Adam Bouland and his collaborators to serve as a testing ground. The state that Susskind actually look a lot, like a quantum A block cipher is a type of algorithm cryptography, including the technology By scrambling information that must be entered exactly For Adam Bouland, theory was in the chaotic mixing His work drew a comparison between and the rearrangement of qubits, as a quantum system evolves... backing up Susskind's approach. Funilly, after this long in some roundabout way, justifying That was a really unexpected We realized that rather than reinforcing what our results suggested that was the only sensible way So that was a you know, that It's pretty remarkable! Faced with a possible explanation for life Susskind and his collaborators decided to propose Eventually, that computer scientists they hadn't said it. Let's put forward law of complexity. That complexity behaves and all the ways on the average increases until it maxes out. We proposed in direct analogy I would say that it is not a law It is a conjecture that there should exist But the analogy with the classic second is sufficiently strong that we felt At the moment, I think it's something The extent to which it applies to the So this idea of using quantum this is treating quantum system Rather than starting into some semi classical approximation and and then bootstrap from there, that can take us somewhere, but it's not all the way. So once we accept that the world then we can actually understand things because we're now and we're using fundamentally to describe it And that will be a fundamental change of how What the implications of complexity growth for the evolution of the universe. At the moment, Eventually, even the quantum complexity achieves Even the quantum complexity, and then maybe the story begins again. You know, as people say, if you wait long enough, everything will happen,