- Behind me is an assassin. And if he stabs me with this rubber knife by the end of the day, he wins a hundred grand. Here's your rubber knife. Good luck. (siren wailing) (person grunts) - What you do? (person grunts) - [Chandler] I can't get out. - [Mr. Beast] Later boys. I left you a car in the woods. (suspenseful music) - What? Are you out? - This video is gonna be the craziest video you've ever seen. We have a real tank, an entire carnival, I'm blowing up a bank, and so much more all to You wanna watch this video. - Oh my God, he's just driving away. - [Assassin] We gotta hurry guys. - I'm gonna stab that guy. - There's a car somewhere in the woods we have to find. - [Assassin] Guys, there's the car. - [Karl] Are you sure this one's for you? - Pretty sure. - [Chandler] Go, go, go. - And now we're arriving There are dozens of train cars It's going to take him forever to find me. Inside this Cars backpack but also a tracker giving - Okay, I found Jimmy. He seems to be stopped at like - What's it look like - It seems like where all the trains go. - Yeah. - How did Jimmy find an - I found Jimmy, he didn't find me. (suspenseful music) - Giving the assassin a car made him think this would be easy, but it's time for a reality check. (screen whooshes) - Yeah, where did we get a tank from? - Don't worry about that. When the assassin and the destroy their car. - Roger that. Over and out. - So, I've seen the other He's gonna be ready there for us. So, you can point and Well, that ain't gonna happen this time. All right guys, we're pulling in. And we're gonna get right And then we're gonna slip in - He's so intent. There's a camera. There's Right there. (intense music) (suspenseful music) - Let's see if he's back that way. - [Chandler] Let's go. - Chris, they're inside the - Roger that. Bravo six going dark.. Destroy the car. (Chris screaming) (tank whirring) (laughs) Oh, my God. - Chris, how's the flattening going? (Chris screaming) - [Assassin] What is going on? - [Chandler] How did I not see this? - [Assassin] Is this a door? - [Jimmy] We gotta go, we gotta go. Come on. definitely in there. (suspenseful music) (glass shattering) - Right here is our getaway car. (glass shattering) Go, go, go. - [Assassin] Go, go, go, go. (object clattering) (van crashing) - [Jimmy] Holy crap. Get us outta here. - [Assassin] Go, go, go. - Whoo! Was that epic? That was insane. It's gone. We gotta get to the car. Let's go. All right. Oh, no. Are you kidding me? - What? with a tank. - I ran over your car with a tank. - Jimmy. - Our car is literally - Yeah, you can Uber to the next location or you can buy a new car. Up to you. - [Assassin] Is that our Uber? Hello. We're right behind him, step on it. All right guys, he's on - Oh, he's just running down that highway. He's going. Where are we? - We are far. - Now we're at the hotel So, these are our room keys. (laughs) I'll even there for the And while we're waiting for we have over a hundred cameras monitoring every inch of the hotel. - I've seen his tracker stop here. This place is huge. Probably a million rooms in it. He's not gonna get away from us again. Alright, fellas. Tracker's telling me he's inside. - Oh, what is this? - We got room keys. (audio thudding) - Is there a doofus on the line? - You're not very stealthy. Since you just walkied? me, that means you're within Which means you're now in the hotel which I didn't know you were in. - That's my bad. - [Jimmy] I'm hiding in one of I also put a little Good luck. - I knew it. (cap thuds) - I just want to get up there quick and just get on him as fast as possible. - [Karl] Let's do this. Here we go. Do you hear this? (person screaming) (lock clicking) What is not in here? - [Assassin] Nope, this it ain't guys. (relaxing music) (door clicks) (elegant trumpet music) He's not in here, let's go. - [Jimmy] Oh, they are on Mr. Assassin, look up at that camera. - How about this one, Jimmy? (shoe smacks) - We still have a hundred other cameras. (footsteps thumping) - Jimmy. (footsteps thumping) Coming in, Jimmy. - [Karl] What's up guys? (footsteps thumping) No way. (footsteps thumping) - [Assassin] Jimmy. - [Karl] 18. - What floor are they on? - 18. - 18? Oh, wait a minute. I might need to (hands rustling) Mr. Assassin, here's the deal. You're running out of time and we both know you're never I'll give you the exact if you tie up Chandler - [Assassin] Yeah, I'll tie these guys up. - Don't talk to me until you do that. (walkie-talkie explodes) 'cause I need to talk to him. - [Assassin] Oh, my legs. - [Karl] Oh, man. - [Jimmy] Hey, Karl. - Yes, Jimmy. - I want you to know it's not personal. - It feels pretty personal. - Alright, let's go. - I'm so tired, I'm not gonna fight it. - I know we didn't help you much. (Chandler coughs) - I hope you get him. Stab him good. - Little do they know I'm literally two floors - Yeah, it's nothing personal guys. All right, Jimmy. These guys ain't going nowhere. - Mr. Assassin, here's your hint. I'm on the 20th floor. - Go. - And now that he knows where I'm at I'm gonna try to do an ad TurboTax is the number one way to get the biggest tax refund possible. On average last year, people get over $3,000 That's a lot of money. Can you gimme like one minute (footsteps thumping) He didn't respond. I should probably start moving. TurboTax will do your Even if you're running from an assassin. (door thuds) Last year, TurboTax helped in tax refund. (alarm blaring) Oh, God, that means he's up here. All right. Come on. (elevator chimes) be confident your taxes are done right. (alarm blaring) And you're probably wondering if there was an elevator, why didn't he take it (elevator chimes) 'cause I hid it with a secret wall. (wall thuds) (grunts) That hurts. A little too good of a secret wall. (bag thudding) (alarm blaring) Whoo! Don't wait until Click the link description and get your tax refund Doing ad read while is very stressful. Mr. Assassin. - Jimmy. - Listen to this real quick. (door clanks) That's my door to my (walkie-talkie thuds) - He just ninja flipped outta here again. (screen whooshes) - This time we're making Tareq, what up. - Wait, what are you doing? running down 20 flights - Oh, well we gotta go. - You're the driver. - All right, hold on, I need to learn how to drive this thing. - I don't even know how we Part of me wishes I still - Is this your first time - Yes. - We gotta get back on our ride. - We're going to the helicopter. It's gonna fly us to a bank and then we're gonna blow up the bank. (graphic thumps) - Whoo. (helicopter whirring) See you at the next location - Hey, stop, stop, stop. (helicopter whirring) Just missed him. Let's go. Let's go. Hundred grand. His tracker's moving so fast. Can't believe he's in - The helicopter put me way ahead and now the assassin has to win a hundred grand. - That's the bank? Oh, God. Let's see if he can stab me while I'm hiding in this double (walkie-talkie thuds) - Tracker stopped, luckily Now I have an opportunity and get my money. - Well, we're here. - I'm in the bank vault but I don't think you have Good luck - Bank vault. Let's do it. Bank's open late. (suspenseful music) (door slams) - He just kicked out a door. (doors slamming) I think he's literally lost his mind. (doors slamming) (timer beeping) Oh, my God. (hands thudding) - You in there, Jimmy? (vault lock clanking) (door thuds) (Nolan laughs) - (laughs) He fell for it. He fell for it. - It worked. - It worked. Mr. Assassin, there's two bank vaults and you picked the wrong one. - Yeah, I saw one vault. Figured that'd be the one. - [Jimmy] Above the bank vault you're in is another bank vault. But you didn't pick that one. You picked the easy one and Is that a sledgehammer? (sledgehammer thudding) This thing's double steel reinforced, it doesn't matter. (sledgehammer thudding) - I really did fall for it, pretty bad at this one, didn't I? - [Nolan] Yeah. - Chris, see that hook right there? I need to attach it there. I'm gonna attach this one here. And we'll get you outta Get comfortable, we might - You say get comfortable. - Hold on to something. (wall cracking) - There's some activity going on right outside of the door here. - Well, one, I might The only thing standing between that safe and the road is this brick wall. - Are you telling me to rob a bank? - Yeah, actually I am. - [Chris] And (indistinct). - Why is this thing moving. - [Jimmy] Oh, my God. Oh, my God. (upbeat rock music) (Nolan grunting) - What is happening? - You didn't tell me about this part. - I can't believe that worked. If you're gonna rob a bank, why don't you just do it like this? Nolan, has the assassin - Well, I'm talking to you, Jimmy, so no. - Darn. Now we're gonna drive you - I can't take this. - Yeah, we're not going on the highway, are we? - You have one hour left to win this hundred thousand dollars. I'll make your transportation quick. All right, get 'em outta here. (vault crashing) - Did we get lifted up (triumphant music) - [Jimmy] Oh, and as promised. (bank explodes) (upbeat music) Literally, everything has I crushed his car, escaped in a Lamborghini and a helicopter, and now he's trapped in a safe with Nolan. There is less than 40 minutes So we're heading to one last location, because keeping him in a bank vault kind of feels like we're cheating. For our last location, we built a carnival, but all and elaborate distraction while I'm gonna try to and see if he still stabs me. I'm gonna give him one last chance. This time, face to face. The truck is now here with the safe. I'm gonna go over there All right. (ladder thuds) I've never broken a film before. We ended the production and The only cameras that kept rolling were hidden spy cameras from far away. There's 20 minutes left in the challenge. Let's see if he still stabs I think you should let him out, Tareq. Guy, get ready. Get ready. (door creaking) - Guys, Jimmy got hurt. - [Assassin] Really? - [Tareq] Literally, get out. Jimmy got hurt. - [Jimmy] No, it just hurts. (person speaking indistinctly) - [Assassin] What happened? - My foot. - He fell off the ladder. - Finished wrapping up- a broken ankle, huh? - Yeah. (suspenseful music) - Yeah, I don't know about that. (suspenseful music) - So, was it that obvious? - Whoo! Let's go! You don't splint a broken ankle. - That is true. I should have broke my leg. I was hoping I'd get away with Here's your a hundred thousand dollars. - This means a lot to me and my family. Thank you. you stabbed me. That was a weird sentence. Thank you guys for watching. - Subscribe or I'm gonna hunt you down. Mr. Beast goes (bank explodes) - Jimmy is it over? - Jimmy