- That tramp murdered my lover! - I know Blanche Devereaux, Lieutenant, and this tramp is incapable (audience laughs) (pleasant music) - Excuse me, but I couldn't help but notice you from across the room. My friends and I would like - Thank you very much, but we - Oh, this is Carl, and this is John. - Hi, we're all from Kenosha. - I know a John from Kenosha. (audience laughs) - I'll be you know a lot of Johns. (men laughing) - Oh, that's a good one. - I guess it must be regional humor. - So we're all here for the - Oh, well tell me, is - It is with Carl. - Yeah, as long as I (men laughing) - Even I don't get that one. (audience laughs) - What's your name? - Oh Blanche, and these are - Well tell me, how long - Well, that's an odd But actually, I've been (audience laughs) - Boy, you must really know your business. (audience laughs) - Yes, Dorothy's a very Everybody who's had her says she's great. (audience laughs) - What do you say we get and have Dorothy teach us the three Rs? Reading, writing, and (audience laughs) - As enticing as the offer - Oh, scusamente! If you ladies don't want to party, there are plenty of that'll take our money. - Girls who'll take their money. Do you know what he thinks we are? - Waitresses? (audience laughs) - No, Rose, hookers! - My god! That must mean everybody here is- - Everybody here is under arrest. This is a raid. (pleasant music) All right, everybody stay The wagons will be here momentarily to transport all of you downtown. - Downtown? He means jail! - Oh really, Rose? I thought he meant Neiman Marcus. (audience laughs) - Well, I've never been in jail. I won't make it. They always prey on the weak and innocent. The others will taunt me for trying to excel at (audience laughs) I'll fall in with a bad crowd whose leader looks like Ethel Merman. (audience laughs) And I'll be forced to engineer a daring prison break From that time on, I won't I'll scar my fingerprints and I'll run from town to town, taking jobs that people have (audience laughs) And then one day, they'll find in the Louisiana bayou, and a sheriff named Bull over a megaphone, and he'll riddle my body with bullets! Oh please don't let them take I wanna live! (audience laughs) - You're not very good in (audience laughs) - Dorothy, what are we gonna do? - We'll simply have to explain that this is all a terrible mistake. Officer. - Now, what can I do for the (audience laughs) - I'll let that pass, because Officer, my friends and - I'm innocent too. - We're all innocent. - Quiet, you trash. (audience laughs) Go on, Dorothy. - Officer, if I could see I'm sure that we could settle this matter to your satisfaction. - Forget it, I happen to be a married man. All right, all you downtown, let's go. We're moving now. - Officer, you really don't understand. We were on our way to - Don't you dare drag (audience laughs) Now move. Move, all of you, let's go, move it. Come on. Move along, move along. (pleasant music) - I cannot believe it, arrested! I've never been in jail in my entire life. - Relax, honey. With as many notches you must it was bound to happen. (audience laughs) - Oh, Rose. Rose, honey, are you all right? - I was booked, fingerprints, mugshots. I'm a known criminal. I'll never be able to go - Oh honey, nobody back home's ever gonna find out about this. - Oh yes they will! The St. Olaf Courier Dispatch is known for its investigative reporting. (audience laughs) - You're right, that series was an uncompromising piece of journalism. (audience laughs) Ma, thank God you're here! - Arrested for prostitution, - Oh, Sophia. Sophia, we're innocent! - I know that, I can't would think anyone would (audience laughs) (audience applauds) - Turn on the news. - Oh, today is my lucky day. While you were gone, Angelo about these big bugs at his place. Well, he didn't wanna He said he could try to and sell 'em out of the back of his truck. (audience laughs) But I thought it was a great story, and so did my boss. In fact, he's putting - Rose, please tell me you're kidding. - My boss said he wanted for making him live under But Angelo wouldn't give us his name. - A Sicilian never squeals, never. Did you offer him money? - No! - Never, he wouldn't. (audience laughs) - Well, it doesn't matter. I mean, our research department will find that heartless Shylock. And if they don't, I will. I'm not gonna rest, I'm not gonna sleep, I'm not gonna eat until - Rose, I'm the scum. (audience laughs) Stan and I inherited that building. I am Uncle Angelo's landlord. - Oh, Dorothy, I forgot! (audience laughs) Oh, I feel awful. Just awful! How could I have been so stupid? - Oh, it's okay. - I missed the family angle. (audience laughs) He's your uncle. Niece makes uncle live in roach motel. (audience laughs) - Look, there's Angelo, - [Angelo] As you can see, and when I spray them, they appear to be laughing at us. (audience laughs) - [Reporter] The question who would make people live We have learned this is owned by baked potato and his ex-wife, Dorothy Zbornak. (audience laughs) - Dorothy, that's your picture! - Oh no. (audience laughs) Oh look, they put those little (doorbell rings) What am I gonna do? How am I gonna face people? I told Stan I didn't want that building. I didn't care about it. I don't care about it now. He's supposed to take care You'd better get this - Dorothy Zbornak? - I'm Dorothy Zbornak. - I have a warrant for your arrest. I'll have to ask you to come with me. - What for? - Violation of the city's housing codes. Lady, you're a slumlord. - Dorothy, don't worry. We'll have you outta jail in no time. I'll get the best attorney (audience laughs) (pleasant music) (people chattering) My god, Dorothy, did you see - I know, this is becoming a media circus. - And they really hate you. The big bug lady, they call you. (audience laughs) You deserve a better nickname. I don't know, something or big mean Dorothy. Something with big mean. (audience laughs) - Dorothy, I am so excited. I just got interviewed. They asked me if you were clean at home. (audience laughs) I said well, you won't You won't find anything in her bed. (audience laughs) - Dorothy, Dorothy, how'd this happen? I feel so terrible. - Oh, it's not your fault. - Oh, thank you. - I'm proud of you, Angelo. You didn't squeal. - I'm Sicilian. - Nobody made an offer, huh? - Not a dime. (audience laughs) - Dorothy? Isn't this something? You've become what we in the - And you've become what we call in the (audience laughs) - Boy, no wonder they call (audience laughs) - Can you believe the mob out there? - Where's Marvin? - Your lawyer, Marvin - I'm not using Marvin on this case. - He's a brilliant lawyer! Listen, Stanley, we need help here. - You know last night, after I went to a bar up the street and while I was there, it dawned on me. If we use Mitchelson, we're gonna look like the rich slumlords we're not. - Well then, who are we using? - Well, as luck would have it, I met somebody at the bar who doesn't have that much experience, (audience laughs) - Poor Stan, it's jumping out there. - Is this what impressed you? - Believe me, Dorothy, she's very bright. - Really? - I'm telling you, we were who got the jokes on the cocktail napkins. (audience laughs) Dorothy, I want you to Tracy, this is Dorothy. - Hi-dee-ho! (audience laughs) - Hi-dee-ho. (people murmuring) - Stanley, forgive me, but I don't think I'm willing to trust my future to this girl, knowing her only qualification is that you were able - I did not pick her up. - Struck out? (audience laughs) - Boy, do you know me or what? (audience laughs) Well, this kind of thinking Just because a woman is attractive, and is not uncomfortable does not mean she can't and a hell of a lawyer. (audience laughs) - Where did you go to law school? - A whole bunch of places. (audience laughs) Uh-oh. - The assistant DA It's amazing what he You think he's getting nowhere, and then suddenly he gives the witness a really dumb compliment, and for some reason, it works. They let down their - Well, you must have some - Well, we'll find out. - What do you mean? - I've never really done this before. (audience laughs) (pleasant music) - Angelo, isn't it true that the Zbornaks make you live under deplorable conditions? - No. - And isn't it true they shut off the power just for funsies? - No. - And isn't it true that, excuse me, but that's the - Thanks. - Didn't you tell Rose Nylund - Sure, but- (audience laughs) Isn't it true, Mrs. Devereaux, that Mrs. Zbornak is the kind of person who likes to see people suffer? - No! - And isn't it true she bullies the women she lives with? - No! - For the record, your honor, this witness has the most (audience laughs) Blanche, what did Dorothy really feel about Angelo's building? - She said she didn't care about it, that she'd never cared about it. (audience laughs) - Thank you. - Thank you. (audience laughs) (pleasant music) - In your own words, Mrs. Petrillo, the words of a beautiful, dignified person who's got a wild bod for a chick her age. (audience laughs) What kind of person is your daughter? - She put me in a home. (audience laughs) (gavel bangs) Order in the courtroom. Do you have any more - No, your honor. New robe? - No, why? - Looks great. - Thank you, counselor. (audience laughs) Well, if there are no more witnesses- - I, your honor, may I say something? - You may speak. - Your honor, this is all Stan and I are ready to take care of those bugs. I don't know how this thing got so far, but believe me, we are not criminals. - I want you both to get for all the people that So I'm gonna sentence both of you to live in apartment 3C in this building until such time as it (gavel bangs) - Wait a minute, you in the same apartment? - That's right. - But there are bugs there. (audience laughs) And they'll think Stan is their leader! (audience laughs) - Hello, I'm Detective Does a Sophia Petrillo reside here? - This is my mother, is there a problem? - I'd just like to ask a few questions. - I've got nothing to hide, copper. Or do you prefer flatfoot, or gumshoe? (audience laughs) - Before my mother lost it completely, she watched a lot of James Cagney. (audience laughs) - They colorized him, can you believe it? Let the man rest. He's got hair the color of roses, and more rouge than Blanche. (audience laughs) - Whatever you think she (audience laughs) - Please sit down. - Mrs. Petrillo, where were you on the night of September 4, 1985? - Did you see &quot;Awakenings?&quot; Throw a ball at me. (audience laughs) How the hell should I know? I don't even remember what (audience laughs) - Ma, the beginning of September. That's when Shady Pines burned down, and you came here to live with us. - Oh yeah. I'm not wearing underpants. (audience laughs) - Mrs. Petrillo, were you acquainted with the late Maria Heartgrove? - She died? Good riddance, God rest her soul. (audience laughs) - We have a deathbed confession from her stating that the two of you - What, that's ridiculous! What did you do? (audience laughs) - She claimed that on the two of you were in - Nonsense, I don't even - You remember, Sophia. They're those little and chocolate sandwiches. - With marshmallow, don't Whoops. (audience laughs) - In her deposition, Mrs. in possession of an illegal hot plate? And while the two of you were cooking, the curtains caught on fire? That you panicked and fled, and the fire continued unchecked. - Now wait just a minute. This is crazy. Do you have any proof? Did anybody find that alleged hot plate? - Presumably, it was lost in the fire. - Maria was just out to get me. She was always jealous because (audience laughs) - I'm sorry, Mrs. Petrillo. I've no choice but to bring you in on a charge of negligent arson. - My mother is 85 years old! I mean, surely you'll make- - I'm sorry, the law Mrs. Petrillo, you're under arrest. (pleasant music) - So, this is life on the (audience laughs) You've all gotten so old. (audience laughs) - Ma, knock it off. You were gone an hour. If anyone's upset, it should be me. I had to dig up the bail money. - Please, how do you put a price tag on getting your mother back? What was it, $500? - 5,000. - Wow, I better improve (pleasant music) - Oh hi, Ma. How was your nap? - Nap? I didn't take a nap. I'm a nervous wreck. How could I sleep a wink with this prison thing Let's grab lunch. - Ma, it's dinner time. - Oh, I guess I did take a nap. (audience laughs) - Ma, I don't know why you're nervous. You are not going to prison. - I feel like I already am in prison with you keeping an eye Are you gonna keep doing - No, only until you give about leaving the country. - I'm not skipping bail, pussycat. I'd never make it. Every cab driver, waitress, and skycap between here and Sicily would be only too eager - Why do you say that? - I under-tip. (audience laughs) - Look Ma, I know you're nervous, but Herb is a brilliant lawyer. And honey, you have the love Now, is there anything I can - Just bread and water. Maybe I'll acquire a taste. (audience laughs) (phone rings) - Hello. What? Oh my god! It's Ma, she's at the airport. They caught her trying to buy - Oh! (upbeat music) (pleasant music) - Can you believe Ma? Trying to go to Sicily on my credit card? She would've made it too, if her chef's knife hadn't (audience laughs) You wanna know something crazy? I actually feel responsible for this. If I'd never checked her into Shady Pines, she never would've made those s'mores, there never would've been a fire, and none of this would've happened. - Hey, when you look at it like that, you are responsible. (audience laughs) - Yeah, I never had You know, it is like they're It is your fault. (audience laughs) - Wait a second, girls. - Can you imagine being the - It was just a theory. - Follow that lady to guilt city. - Now, stop it, now stop it. Look, nobody's to blame for this. - She's rationalizing. (audience laughs) - Look, instead of pointing fingers, I thought we were gonna try - Well, we certainly are The kitchen, crisis central. (pleasant music) I'm not saying I want her to go to prison. I'm saying if she goes to prison, we have the theme for the party. (audience laughs) - Girls, do I have news for you. - Rose, where have you been? - Trying to get hold of the fire inspector who inspected Shady Pines. I just wanted to double check that there wasn't anything - And? - And, get this. They said the inspector quit three days after the Shady Pines fire. It seems he mysteriously and moved to an exclusive Do you know what that means? - Rose, you nitwit! That means the guy was - Oh, I told you everything - Hey, I have an idea. Let's have a getting out of prison party. See, everybody can pretend they've been locked up They have all this pent up sexual energy. Everybody's all pumped up, because all you ever do So we get all those muscly What are you lookin' at? (audience laughs) (pleasant music) - You did a good job, ladies, but let's not forget, there And Mrs. Heartgrove's I just wish we had something that reflected on her credibility. - What if we had a video mooning a hot dog vendor? (audience laughs) - That would totally discredit her. - Wait a minute, I just Can't use it, moving on. (audience laughs) - Well, if you think of anything else, please give me a call. I have to be at the courthouse There's no one in the place Except you and me That's what we were singing that night. We were having a couple and singing &quot;One for My Baby.&quot; I remember. - Ma, you do? - Yeah. I heard a smoke alarm, looked up, and saw flames coming out of the heater. Maria was confused. I grabbed her and the It was the heater. - Are you sure? - Sure I'm sure, it was the heater. - You dig up that hot plate, I think we've got enough evidence to get these charges dropped. - Oh, Ma, I am so proud of you. Now honey, if you could just remember where you left the hot plate. - I used it recently. Think, Sophia, think. - What's that smell? (fire alarm beeping) - My god, that's the smoke - Oh no! - Oh yeah, anyone for s'mores? (audience laughs) - Oh my- - I've been robbed! - Oh boy. (audience laughs) - Sh, sh, be quiet. They could still be here. - Who? (audience laughs) The robbers. - Is there more than one? - You said they. - They, him, what difference does it make? That's how they got in. - Ooh, ooh, but wait, - They're gonna kill us, - Stay! (audience laughs) Sh. This is a .375 Magnum. (audience laughs) One of the most powerful It could blow your head off. The only problem is, I don't remember if I So you have to ask yourself. Do you feel lucky? Well, do ya, punk? - Go ahead, make her day. (audience laughs) - Sophia, where are you going? - To my room. - Well, you can't, it could be dangerous! - Please, I'm 80. Bathtubs are dangerous. (audience laughs) - Oh come on, this is ridiculous. They aren't here anymore. Let's go check our rooms. - Oh, I just thank God they Oh, I'm gonna check the kitchen. - Well wait, don't leave me! What'll I do if they come back? - Show them your slides of Hawaii. (audience laughs) - I'm fine. I'm just fine. There's nothing to be afraid of. These things happen every day. The main thing is, nobody was hurt. We could've been here. They could've come in while we slept. They could've crept up on - Now look- (audience laughs) - What? - I thought you were the killers. - Relax, relax, I called the police. They stole my stole. - What? - Oh no. - Stan gave it to me. It was the only present he ever gave me that didn't need an extension cord. (audience laughs) - They got my jewels. - But I see they didn't get your cocaine. (audience laughs) - Oh my god, Blanche has cocaine? - This is flour! I hid my jewels in the flour. - Why did you hide your - Because I didn't What kind of robbers look in the flour? - That's the first place - The freezer's my other hiding place. - It's everybody's. The robbers know that. They don't even open drawers anymore. (audience laughs) - My mama's jewels. I can never replace them. Oh, I'm just beside myself. And you oughta see the They about tore this place apart. - They were probably looking for drugs. (audience laughs) - We have Maalox and estrogen. (audience laughs) (somber music) - [Man] Then my fifth wife, she got me through this cancer stuff. Five years I had cancer, sick. I even go back to her once in a while. (alarm blaring) (audience gasps) (Blanche gasps) - You shot my vase. (audience laughs) - I heard footsteps, and a man's voice, and the alarm went off. - It was Lester! He accidentally set off the alarm! - Oh, I'm sorry. - You shot my vase! - I didn't shoot Lester. - I'd rather you shot Lester! (audience laughs) - I think I'll pass on - Go on home, you old fool. - What happened? - She shot my vase! - Thank God, I hated that thing. (audience laughs) - What are you doing shooting? Are you crazy? - I heard a noise, I - I manage to live 80, 81 years. I survive pneumonia, two One night I'll belch, and stable Mable here (audience laughs) - Rose, you've got to do something! This is crippling you. - Just save whatever I can glue it back together. - You bet, whatever I find. I love that vase. (audience laughs)