president elect Trump made official what CNN has been reporting for several days, namely that Stephen Miller will join Tom Homan in taking the lead on the issue in the new administration on the mass deportations, fulfilling an oft mentioned campaign promise. Rosa Flores has more now and what this could mean for Hispanic families facing deportation, even those who supported the president elect. How many of you are U.S. citizens? How many of you support Donald Trump? You're undocumented and you support Donald Trump. I support Donald Trump for the economy. Two Hispanic families with mixed legal status in Houston, with two different takes on president elect Donald Trump's return to the white House. This is the Spinoza's first gathering since Trump's win. How many of you fear that deportation could impact your family? Says that Espinoza, a husband and father, was a DACA recipient until this summer when he got a green card. His sister and brother in law are DACA recipients. His sister in law is a green card holder, and the rest of his family here are U.S. citizens. Some who are not present are undocumented. You're a green card holder. Your wife is a U.S. citizen. Why are you afraid of deportation? I just became a green card holder after 33 years of being in this country. I don't think people understand the fear. It's a constant shadow hanging over our heads. What was your reaction to Donald Trump winning? I cried a lot. It was. It was emotional. I have my family like, if they're going to be here or they're not going to be here. And how do you tell all of our kids, like my nephews, they're also our kids, to tell people that doesn't live in kids and children's mind and teenagers and young adults. Life is a lie. Jealousy. Velasquez is an undocumented mechanic who has worked in Houston for 25 years. Oh, he plays in this park with his two U.S. citizen children, ages five and nine, and stands by Donald Trump. So you support Donald Trump because of the economy? For the economy, yes. But you don't support the anti-immigrant rhetoric. I'm not a supporter of the anti immigrant action. Do you support his mass deportations? No, he's not human. Are you afraid that you could be deported in this mass deportation? I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid. Losing someone. Espinosa runs a migrant advocacy group and says many people are afraid and have called him in tears. I think there's a heightened sense of fear. Explain why Latino men are going to trump. Democrats forget the promise when these guys are in the office and in Washington. The Latinos want a better nation. Espinosa believes some of the Latino support for Trump was a vote against the prospect of the first black female president. There's still a lot of machismo, there's still a lot of misogyny and something that we need to say out loud is there's a lot of anti-Blackness. Velasquez says he hopes Trump finds compassion for immigrant fathers like him who are not criminals. If you get deported, would you regret your support to Donald Trump? No. He's saying that he wouldn't regret supporting Donald Trump. So you're really not thinking about yourself. You're thinking about your children and the future of your children. Yes. I want the better for my children. Sister says he feels guilty for bringing so much uncertainty to his family. What's it like for you to see your wife go through this and the emotions that she's going through? I apologize to her a lot. But we fell in love right away, and we got married almost right away. Because when, you know, you know, we ask Velasquez and Espinosa the same final question. Do you have a plan in case you get deported? I respect the decision. I leave the country. I'm not going back. There is a plan. We've talked about it openly with our family. Turns out these two Hispanic families with two different takes on Trump's win have the same plan. If they get deported, they would go to Mexico as a family. As for how organizations across this country are preparing for possible deportations. First of all, nationally, the ACLU and Lou lack, they're preparing for the legal fight to challenge some of these policies in court. And then there's organizations, for example, in California, who are calling for immigration reform. And in New York, organizations were switching their mission a little to focus on the possibility of mass deportation. And, Anderson, I talked to some organizations here in Texas on the border from say that if the federal government is actually going to deport a lot of migrants and in this massive way that they should do so with dignity. Anderson, that was the first I appreciate it.