I'm about to make your life a lot easier in ways of different computer tips. A lot of them are but a lot of them are also general computer tips I think for a lot of these, you probably have not new for most of you. Starting off with number one, exclamation mark to the front of file names or any show up at the top of any alphabetical list. So you want to list alphabetically in a folder, kind of like favorites. What you can do is simply should show up first. And then you can use a period, and a lot of times those will have a little bit more. This is also useful in beyond alphabetical, but you want certain ones but in the color management settings in Windows, way to sort these is alphabetically, and it shows but I always want to get to the custom ones, so I they're at least all grouped at the bottom. It's easier. Next up, number two is another tip that download folder, if it's not already set like Modified. Or you could also do Date Created, which up, you can go to More, and then find it in the this does. It basically groups together files that a few days ago. And this is useful to me because recently downloaded files if you're downloading you're downloading a bunch of files all at once, or just have it better organized, then you'll but again, they'll be grouped with only the most also be alphabetical, but separate. And then Date Created, whether you sort by or group by, and it's the date the file was actually created on the might be useful. A lot of times, you might need to kind of jumps it to a whole different part of the use, but you do want to sort by when you actually just knowing about that, even if you just add it number three, we have the Windows Expanded if you right-click something, or in Windows it brings up this style of context menu. But if Windows 10 or 11, it'll bring up an expanded sometimes extra stuff, depending on what you're folder, here's a few options that weren't there Linux Shell here&quot;, and &quot;Open in New Process&quot;. For example, on an EXE, you can see this extra option with a lot of a certain file type in Windows, it and seeing if there's any options that you might it. Now, as a quick extra bonus tip, you can uses the old context menu. You can change it to a HowToGeek.com article. They explain it in a you can just download and run it if you want to tip I have is a great way to stop sketchy online not just to the highest bidder, but basically any DeleteMe, a data privacy service to which I myself now, long before they ever sponsored. If you've the countless so-called &quot;data broker&quot; websites information, like name, address, and phone number, want with it. But that's where DeleteMe comes in. requests on your behalf. New data brokers pop up new ones and continue to monitor them and repeat which can happen a lot. At the moment, they a privacy report for which sites you were removed that. So you can see exactly which sites are But you can also submit customer requests to have sites, even surprising ones like berkeley.edu, for will still help you get removed from it if you're your personal information removed from the web and use the promo code &quot;THIOJOE&quot; for a nice let's continue. Alright on to number four. This is that is if you were like me who had a big stack for different products you've bought over the case... Well what I started doing is to actually online version of all the product manuals, or if save them all into one folder on your computer has often made my life a lot easier. For example, have to dig through a bunch of piles of physical I'll put the product name, maybe even the model And it's a lot easier than searching physically. version or use optical character recognition through the PDF for the term you're looking for. instead of having to literally flip through the table of contents to see if it even talks about easier. And of course it saves a lot of space. an occasional issue I've come across in Windows, Device Manager settings, is that Windows may power For example, if you go in the device manager in to Properties and then the Power Management tab, Windows to turn this off when it's not being with devices not working properly when I think it that automatically goes through all of these and thing to note about this is, I believe, at least maybe even not a major one, it would actually part of the reason I did the script, just so I time. So if you do end up running the script, that it's still disabled and Windows didn't reset I'll put the link in the description where you you can run it by opening PowerShell. I believe it to change directory to wherever you have that you have to run the script by doing a period and and then it should run. You might also need to run a restriction for Windows to block PowerShell Process&quot; one. That makes sure that it will go back window. I've seen a lot of tutorials that talk and then you kind of leave your computer open I believe we're up to number six, and this one which is basically a more feature-rich version of that. Anyway, usually when you right click have Windows set up, but you should usually see open the terminal with the path that you right than having to type in the path manually. But what admin mode, what you can do is actually go into of the Terminal and install that alongside the to automatically go into the admin mode. So you whether you want to run it as normal or admin. And app and then go into the settings and then look set it to command prompt. So I go into that on the on that says &quot;Run this profile as Administrator&quot;. parent directory is checked. That makes sure that from. And now you can easily open a terminal just two clicks. Up next, number seven is a couple is to use Microsoft's Power Toys suite of tools. get this from the Microsoft store, download from different tools in this, I've made videos about is the Text Extractor, you can toggle that one on. always forget, or you can click on the little icon bunch of different tools you have enabled. You can a cursor, you select what you want to extract the it, and then you can paste it from the clipboard. tool built into Windows also does text extraction. you'll see this little box icon show up and you you can select some of it or all of it, and it'll because one might be more accurate than another eight is an easy way to get to the BIOS menu on a BIOS key you can usually press, either the when the computer boots up and then it'll bring times that just ends up with you pressing the key hoping that you time it right. Or sometimes you place, but you can actually create a shortcut in go directly into the BIOS without having to create a shortcut. So right-click, create shortcut to type in this command, &quot;cmd.exe /k shutdown /r/ The cmd.exe /k, that just means we're going to be and the /k makes it so the command prompt Windows doing. The shutdown /r is the command to restart this is actually the key here. This stands restart to the BIOS. /t, that stands for time, and restarting. I just set it to one, so it's not matter. And then all you have to do is simply to actually restart the computer if you do, and it now the next three tips are really quick. are probably good to know. And for number nine, have the &quot;Ctrl + Backspace&quot; and &quot;Ctrl + Delete&quot; entire word instead of just pressing the backspace backspace and delete key, is the backspace goes to the right, but it's still word by word instead quick cool one. And that is if you have a window send that window to the back behind any other that a lot of people see as common knowledge, but you can zoom in by pressing Ctrl and then in Google Chrome, but also a lot of other programs really cool tool that is built into Windows is the Quick Assist tool. And you can just find does is makes it really easy to connect remotely you're the person that needs the help or giving in detail. I made another video where I did, but give the other person, and then they're able to and you can watch what they're doing. And it makes something over the phone that you're trying to remote desktop software like TeamViewer because can't keep reconnecting to your computer. And So it's a bit safer in my opinion. Alright, now but also for a lot of devices. And you probably something that's acting weird, simply turning not just for computers, but a lot of stuff. But is it's often good to not just turn it back on up to a minute and then turn it back on. A lot may actually say this, and you might've wondered you have stuff like capacitors or inductors that is cut from it. And this might be powering memory might be causing the issue one way or another, it thing and keep it turned off for long enough, extra way to make sure that really everything And sometimes that can help when otherwise just not. Alright, we still got a few more, we're long file paths. So not a lot of people know about Windows actually has a maximum file path length of I mean that the entire path, including all the name, can only be a maximum of 260 characters. then you could run into a problem where you can't you can just run into issues. But you can actually like 30,000 characters, so effectively unlimited. easier than the other. If you're on Windows Pro the Group Policy Editor and then go to Computer File System. And then on the right, look for Enabled. If you're on Windows Home Edition, in the description. And in there, they have a look for where it talks about enabling the long and then open PowerShell by searching in the start run it. And that should enable it. Okay, number parameters in certain programs. Everybody already shortcut, it will open the program. But another prompt to that location and then type in the but it's just another way. And the reason you programs also have launch parameter options, you can add these additional options that might of times are usually going to be documented sometimes there are launch parameters that are not do to find these a lot of times is, maybe go to command prompt, the name of the exe, and then add or another common one is &quot;/?&quot; A lot of times this descriptions of them. And other times even example, here's a file from Camtasia, it's a you type in -help, it'll specifically say &quot;that's all the possible ones. And I don't believe these about if you want to look for hidden parameters, -help. Just be aware that for some programs, it's type in an invalid parameter. So don't expect got a couple left, and for number 16, it's to Viewer log. This is more for power users, but if error messages and stuff like that, what you These are probably the most main ones you're right click and go to properties and look for the default is going to be 20 megabytes, so like this to like a hundred megabytes or more. It's much larger logs and just keeping track of way and deleted. Now you might look at this list and &quot;well look at this, the default, it's already be even longer?&quot; But when this might come in starts generating a whole bunch of error messages starts overwriting everything else. For example, necessarily errors or problems. It's just, there's see this only goes back a day on the 20 megabytes. individual log file. And there are a lot more just these. But if you're more advanced user you probably know which ones you want to increase 17, this is another simple one in Windows. to the strictest setting. And you do that by clicking that, and then just putting the bar all the thing that pops up a box when you do anything basically it'll run and double check anytime you this is not like a bulletproof virus protection by a virus that knows what it's doing, but it's the very least, it's a way to simply know when admin privileges, just a little bit better to so that's it. And also let me know if there's you think are good to know. And also check with a really cool tip that I didn't. Thanks if you want to have your personal info removed and use the promo code &quot;THIOJOE&quot; for a discount. thumbs up for the YouTube algorithm. And if you twice a week, usually Wednesday and Saturday. And recommend is where I talked about the most useless you might remember from Windows 10. What was the I'll put that link right there. So thanks so much