On day 1 I spawned in as a baby robot. "Woah, I'm a tiny robot! But where am I- why am I in a cage?" I looked around and saw there were a couple They must be my parents. I decided I would go ask them what we were But before I had a chance to ask them, the into the cage! "Alright you junkers, time to get to work!!" "We're tired of taking orders from you! We can't stand by and watch this factory "You think you can rise up against us? Sounds like I need to teach you a lesson pal!" The rat lunged forward and started fighting As they were fighting, my robot mom came up "Zozo, the door is open, move quickly and We will hold him off!" "But I don't understand, why are we working What are we doing here?" "There's no time to explain, but he isn't you never run into his boss. Now hurry, get out of here!" My mom hurried away to help fight off the door and escape. As I drove away I turned around and saw the "Dad, no!!" I thought about going back, but I noticed If I was captured or killed, my dad's sacrifice As I drove away, I noticed that I had just There were big pillars of smoke coming out the yellow haze. "I better get out of here before that rat I was driving away, when suddenly I started "Oh no, my battery is going to run out in What's going on?!" In a panic I backed up into the sunlight, to recharge and returned to full. "Whew, that was scary- I must be a solar I'll have to be sure to stay in the light I soon found a good place to build a shelter I made sure to leave the roof open so that On day 2 I woke up to a full battery and sunlight "Looks like my shelter kept me safe through But I have a lot I need to figure out today, still alive." I knew I wouldn't be able to get back into was when I noticed that my arm was a permanent "I'll bet I can break all kinds of blocks some supplies." I stepped outside my base, when I was suddenly "Ah what the heck are you?? Get back!" I swung my drill arm and quickly defeated "That looked like some kind of mutated bunny- I'll have to keep an eye out." My drill arm was pretty handy though, so I base. I drilled into the ground and saw I was able "Woah, mining is going to be a breeze!" I was digging down, and my battery alarm went I was so excited about my drill, I almost Luckily I was able to get out before the timer "Looks like I'm going to have to be a the sun." I headed over a nearby hill where there were and stone. Then i set up a crafting table and made an On day 3 I decided to venture out a little I knew I still wasn't strong enough to break As I got closer to a nearby cave, I saw something "What is that? It looks like there's a deactivated robot Their battery must have run out." As I got closer to investigate, I was attacked "Woah, get back!" The mutant pig had come out of nowhere, but As they disappeared, I saw a whole horde of "I better get out of here!" As I was driving away I couldn't help but and who was that in the cave? Maybe they would be able to help me in the I would have to try and come check on them On days 4-5 I was running away when I stumbled none of their crops really seemed to be growing. I decided to try and get more information, hill. "Hello, is anyone home?" The door opened and a farmer stepped out. "Hey there, I'm trying to find out what's your crops?" She explained that the smog coming from the Not only that, the smog was also turning all "That's horrible!! There must be something we can do to stop She explained that the only way would be to everyone was too scared to get close to the to do that. "Well, I've been there once, I can get Thanks for your help!" I drove off in the direction of the factory- trying to break in. On days 6-8 I started making my way back toward As I reached the top of a hill, I ran into "Ah another one! Take this you creepy sheepy!" By using my sword I was able to take it down. "That farmer was right, the smog is making I kept going on my way when I ran into a zombie! As I started to attack him, I noticed he had "Are those robot tracks? I'm sure you won't mind me taking those After a few hits he was down, and I was right- I picked them up. "Oh nice- these Mark 1 tracks will give they gave me a speed boost too! Now I'll be able to get farther on my limited On days 9-10 I rolled up to the gates of the "Hmm, I don't see much on this side, the I'll go see if there's anything on the As I got closer to the other side, I could "That suit- it must be FAT CAT!" I looked into the yard and saw who he was "We know you helped that little robot escape! You're going to work overtime until we find My mom didn't say anything- she was so brave. If I was going to help her though, I was going Just then I heard some pistons moving and As I peeked over the edge, I saw an opening a couple of rats were talking outside. "What do you think of my secret door, pretty Now we can sneak out and skip work, and nobody "Perfect, I can use their tunnel to sneak I still wasn't strong enough to fight, but future. As I turned to leave though, my new tracks "Hey what was that?!" The rats rushed over to where I was hiding, get away without them seeing me. Don't worry Mom, I'll come back for you. On days 11-14, I was heading back to my base I started putting together a small hut to attacked by a giant mutated zombie! "Holy cow, this guy is huge!!" I started to build even faster, but couldn't zombie. "If he keeps chasing me, I'm not going goes down!" The sun kept going down and my battery soon "Oh no!! If I could just.... Finish..." As much as I tried, I couldn't finish the All I could do was jump into the unfinished My battery let out a final beep, and I deactivated. On day 15, I awoke to an unfamiliar face looking "Good morning little friend! How are you feeling?" "Wha- what happened? Who are you?" "Don't be alarmed- my name is Gary and I managed to grab you before that zombie could "Thank you, you saved me! Woah and what's this, did you upgrade my "I did! I wish I could do more, but I only had parts you're out of the sun." "Wow that's great- how did you know how The old man sighed before heading into his "My wife and I actually used to work at It was a clean, safe place for everyone, and that you see today. But then one day Fat Cat showed up and turned He mistreats the robots and makes them work the land. My wife and I had to flee for our safety. We planned to save the land from the factory, last days growing her flower garden, but nothing She passed away soon after. I can't take Fat Cat down by myself, and But if you are willing to work with me, I "I'm sorry to hear about everything you've us- let's take this guy down!" On days 16-19, I left Gary's house and went of operations. After a little bit of searching, I found a I first cleared out the land, then got to Then I put up walls to keep the mutants out, sure to leave windows in the ceiling for light Once that was finished, I filled the interior "Home sweet home- I hope this can be a place our fight!" That reminded me- what happened to that robot If I could just get a little stronger I could was going on. On days 20-22 I woke up to sheep sounds outside "Oh nice, I could use their wool to build I hurried to my base door and saw a bunch "Oh right.... I forgot everyone here was green. Ah well, good to know my walls kept them out!" I opened my door and started to fight them! I noticed a little mutant bunny was also joining "How'd you get mixed up with these baaaa-d I finished them all off with no problem. After the fight, I could feel a power surge, "Alright! I even gained four more hearts!" I looked closer at my drill- it now had a I decided to go and give it a test. "Looks like I can break blocks even faster On days 23-27, I left my base to try and look I had no idea if they would still be there, Fat Cat. Since I had gotten my new upgrades, it felt Before I got back to the cave, I stopped by "I'm going to need a way to transport to do it!" I had soon gathered up all the rails, and the cave. It looked like the robot was still in the the mutant pigs! "I'm not running away this time!" They put up a good fight, but my new abilities I fought as hard as I could- and won! "Finally! Now I can get this robot out of here. Looks like they're deactivated." I quickly laid down some tracks, got the robot to the base. On days 28-32 I had made it back to my base, supplies into the base. This will help us coordinate our plans much "Gary! I found this robot out in a cave, do you think "Ah, I recognize this model- they call her Gary took a look and could immediately tell "Yup, looks like her battery is fried. She must have been caught out in the wilderness." "So what can we do, do you think you can "Not with the supplies I have on hand, but to have the components. I can tell you where to go to find it." Gary told me where to go, but before I left I added a second layer to the walls, then out of. Everything was looking great, and I even built "No one is going to be breaking into here!" On days 33-36, I was getting ready to leave, to ask me. "Zozo, I just had a question to ask you- "Well, I wish I could take all the credit, who has inspired me to always be nice and He's a sassy dude, but in the end he always "That's great- we should build a statue there is still good in this world!" "That would be a great idea!" I rushed out and was able to find some non-mutated I led them back to the base and put them in Then I got to work on the statue. I started with a base, then moved on to the After a while, I had finished the first part! "This is coming along great! I hope you're enjoying it so far too- if subscribe to the channel, that way you'll On days 37-40 I entered the desert to begin "I can already feel the temperature rising, As I made my way toward a small hill, I heard "I wonder what that could be?" As I came over the hill, I saw a group of "Ahh this feels so wrong to be fighting But you guys aren't as nice as your non After a tough fight, I was able to finish I made it through, but these mobs were getting "I'm going to have to find a good spot knows what could be waiting for me at the On days 41-43 I found a nice spot against "Woah look at all these ores! I can use these to give myself an upgrade." I also noticed there was a nice spot in the I quickly laid down some blocks for a foundation, Then I worked on building the walls, and finished With the base set up, I headed over to the iron. "I can use this iron to upgrade my armor- the gold." I quickly smelted down all of the iron in all of the gold. Then I made an iron chestplate, iron leggings, With the leftover iron I decided to make myself To finish up, I then made a gold block, which tracks. This let me upgrade my tracks to the Mark than before! "I feel like I can take on anything now! Let's go find that warehouse!" From days 44-49 I left my house to finally After a while I could finally see it! "That must be it! I hope the parts we need are inside." As I entered the building I could see the "This place has been completely picked apart! It looks like I might just have to head home "Hey you!" A little rat came running over to me! What could he want? "What do you want? Aren't you working with Fat Cat? "No, no not at all! You think rats want to work with cats? That Giant Rat has betrayed all ratkind, and You think you can help?" "It sounds like we want the same thing, "You came here to this warehouse because The Giant Rat cleaned all these warehouses I can show you where it is." I didn't know if I could trust him, but to find the base. On days 50-53 the rat and I were traveling It looked like something was wrong. "Hey, what's going on?" She told us that a group of husks were attacking If we would help them, she would give me something "I'm always happy to do what I can!!" She led us into the village, and I charged The rat even joined in on the fight- maybe It wasn't long until we had eliminated all "And stay down!" The gazelle thanked us for our help, and told When we arrived, she told me to take what "Woah are these blueprints on how to build If I can build that, I can use it to redirect On days 54-57, I decided I would construct I first needed to gather some resources, so While I was on my way, I was suddenly attacked "These mutant animals are just getting weirder I noticed there was a little mutant bird fighting "A bird fighting with cats, and rats are This world is crazy!" After beating the mutants, I got to work digging Once I had collected all of the sand I needed, the sand into glass! "Alrighty, time to start building this lens." I constructed two pillars for the base, then just smelted. There was a shadow on the ground for now, "Okay let's see if this thing works!" I headed over to the activate button and gave As the lens rotated, I saw the shadow on the I quickly got to work digging a deep hole." "It's nice to not have to worry about Once I started to hit bedrock, I built an some strip mining. The mirror was able to reflect enough light Before long, I mined into a room full of diamonds! "Amazing, this is just what I needed!" I quickly mined all of the ores I could, then On days 58-62 I headed into my base to start mined. I noticed that while I had been down in the hut off the side of my base. Pretty cozy! Back at my crafting table I made a diamond With the remaining diamonds I also made myself "Feels good to know this armor will keep Rat will be a tough one!" On days 63-66 I met the rat outside of my "Before we get going, is there anything "Yeah- you'll need all the support you should subscribe and like the video! That outta give you the strength you need." "That's true, that would help a ton!" The rat and I headed off to go fight the Giant We soon left the desert and entered the badlands. As we made our way, we suddenly saw a pack "Mutant wolves now?? This just doesn't even surprise me anymore!" The rat and I launched into attack mode and The rat was proving to be a good teammate, "Nice job! I feel like we're making a great team" of a cliff overlooking the Giant Rat's warehouse. "Can you see that??" Running into the warehouse was a huge pack loot! We were definitely in the right place. "Alright buddy, what's the best way in??" I waited for the rat to reply but he didn't Suddenly I heard a bunch of squeaking and the building- they were headed right toward The had betrayed us! "No! I thought you were my friend!" Soon the rats were on me, and I tried to fight "Oh no, there's so many of them!! I don't know if I can get out of this one." I managed to take a few of them out, but it And I was right. The rats injected me with something that depleted While I was shut down, the rats pushed me me away in a cell. On days 71-74 I started the day deactivated a huge explosion in the ceiling! The roof blew away, which let light come in- As I turned back on, I saw Gary jump in from "Gary, you're here!" "Come on Zozo, let's get you out of here!" Gary set some TNT by the jail doors and blew As we jumped through, we were attacked by "You guys aren't going to shut me down With Gary's help we were able to fight off the sun my battery had started to deplete "Don't worry Zozo, I've got a solution Gary took out his bazooka and blasted a hole I quickly recharged. "Let's look in these supply closets, I'm Gary and I started looking in all the crates, "Netherite scraps! I can use this to upgrade my gear" I went ahead and grabbed the emeralds too, We continued moving through the warehouse, went. In the next room we found even more supplies! "More netherite scraps, and healing potions! Woah and check it out- gold nuggets! Just what I need to make some netherite ingots!" We had gotten some good loot, but we still There was only one place we hadn't checked- On days 75-78 we reached the Giant Rat's "Watch out Rat Man, we're coming in!" I punched the door open and headed inside Giant Rat was inside on his desk. Eve's battery was on the wall behind him! "Give us the battery or we're going to "This battery powers the one robot with you found it didn't you?? I know where your little base is, once I've robot once and for all" "We'll never let you destroy her! We're taking that battery and shutting the Just then, the Giant Rat jumped forward and We both pulled out our weapons and started "Stay strong Gary, we can beat this guy!" The Giant Rat was really powerful, and my But in the end we were finally able to defeat "We did it! Nice job Gary! Let's grab the battery and get out of here... Gary?" I turned and saw that Gary had been seriously "Gary! You don't look so good. Come on, let's get you some help." "There's no time Zozo... but there's I was the one that hid the robot Eve away, I thought telling you what code she contained The more he spoke the worse he looked. "It's okay, it's okay, maybe you should Gary slumped down against the wall. "You've been a great friend Zozo, I know She would have loved you too." "She?" "I had hoped to see her flowers bloom one My wife- her name was Eve." Gary put his head down and he was gone. "Thank you for everything Gary, I won't On days 79-84 I grabbed the battery off the I couldn't believe Gary was gone. As I headed down the stairs I heard a familiar "...so now that Giant Rat is gone, you need This whole time that rat was just trying to stand! "You cost me everything!" I charged down the stairs and attacked the I was so angry I was able to defeat him in All the other rats were so scared they didn't "I've got to get this battery back to I headed out to return to the base. On days 85-89 I arrived back at the base and After a moment she booted up and looked right "Hello! What's your name?" "Hi! I'm Zozo, Gary told me that you should have that true?" "That is correct! I would be happy to assist you with doing Where is Gary? I would love to see my creator again." "He... didn't make it. But he would have wanted us to work together!" "I see, I'm sorry to hear it. But I agree, Gary and Eve were my best friends, "I agree! Which reminds me, do you think you could help Eve and I headed outside, and I got her help Finishing the statue gave me the courage to Brave like my robot hero, and brave like Gary! Before long, the statue was complete! "This looks amazing! Thanks for all of your help Eve!" From there I went to work on building Eve I made sure to give her everything she needed Once I finished the outside, I worked on decorating With everything complete, I just had one more Using the nether scraps and gold I had collected, Then I used that to upgrade my diamond sword. "Nothing's gonna stop us now!" On days 90-94 I decided that I should go through he may have had to help us in the final fight. As I was looking around, I came across Gary's His last entry confirmed his plan to follow Under that entry was a note meant for me: "If you are reading this... I did not make it. Last thing I need to tell you is that Eve She can also craft a Battery for you!! With such a battery you can function without "Wow, what an amazing gift. I'll go ask her!" I headed back out and found Eve. I asked her about the battery. "Let me check my data logs. Scanning... oh yes, I found the recipe! Right this way." Eve grabbed some supplies from a chest then Moments later we headed outside and she tossed I put it in. I immediately felt a power surge, and turned I even had twenty hearts! My battery pack showed it was upgraded too. "Woah look at me! I feel great! Fat Cat isn't going to know what hit him." On days 95-96, I headed outside to meet up "Today's the day Eve- let's go save Eve and I took off in the direction of the After a while we arrived near the edge of Looking ahead, I could see some rats patrolling Once they had passed, we snuck up to the hidden "If we hit this button it will let us inside!" I hit the button and Eve and I snuck inside. Once we were inside, we didn't see anyone "It looks like the coast is clear, let's As we ran across the open space, we heard there. Maybe he can tell us where the robots are! "Hey don't move and we won't hurt you- "Fat Cat gathered them all in the incinerator He's threatening to melt them all down because "That sounds like my mom! Thanks for the tip. We can't risk you giving us away though, you up" "*gulp*" Eve shot a rat net at him, which put him in I picked him up and put him in my safety compartment. "Come on, let's get to the incinerator On days 97-98 we entered the incinerator room We had to save her! "Hang on Mom, we'll get you out! I looked across the room and saw a lever that a rat on the other side of the room watching He ran toward the lever! "Oh no you don't!" I ran toward the rat while Eve started shooting It was a close one but we managed to take "Zozo, is it really you??" Mom, I'm so glad to see you're still alive. Where are the other robots? We need to get everyone out!" "Fat Cat is keeping them locked up in the I can get them out but I don't know how "There's a secret entrance that we used "Thank you Zozo, and be safe. Fat Cat will be in the main factory. I love you. Good luck." made our way towards the main factory. On our way toward the factory doors, we heard "Well, well, well, if it isn't little Fat Cat was looking down at us from the factory's "Fat Cat, the madness has to stop! We're shutting down this factory one way "We'll see about that- rat pack attack!" Just then the largest pack of rats I had ever This must have been every rat in the factory! Time to see just how good my upgrades really "Bring it on you little creeps!" Eve and I threw everything we had at the rats. With my new abilities, these rats didn't Eve shot them with her laser cannon, and I Before long, we had managed to take most of run away in fear. "Yeah you better run!!" Eve and I walked up to the factory door, but "Eve, I could really use your help in this We need you to stay safe so you can shut down "I understand. And Zozo, there's something else I want "Yeah, what is it?" "I know you'll make it through this, and... I just think everyone should subscribe so "Wow, that really means a lot to me, Eve, I'll see you when it's all done." On day 100 I entered the factory and saw Fat balcony. "It's over Zozo, I have the high ground!" "...What?" "This little revolution ends today! I don't care how many rats you kill, or I'll never shut this place down!" And just like that, he attacked! As we exchanged blows, it was clear to me thought! "You could have had a great life working like it's over for you!" My hearts were getting really low! It didn't look like I was going to make But just then, a laser came out of nowhere "Eve!" Eve came in and starting with Fat Cat, which up. Then I got back into the fight. "You're in trouble now Fat Cat!" As I started to fight, I was able to distract While I did that, Eve snuck around to the "Nooooo my factory!!" Suddenly Fat Cat stopped moving and a tiny this whole time! "There he is boys, get him!" The pack of rats appeared and chased Fat Cat "We did it Eve! I'm sure the world will return back to normal I think Gary would have been proud. Now let's go find my mom, we have a lot