Hidden inside this leather protective it shocked one of the greatest science For the first time, a computer up an entire room could fit in your pocket. But what could you actually DO with it? My journey to figure out what the led me down a winding path having to learn a programming language, Because the seminal building block never leaving home without a computer in The November 1980 issue of Popular hand-held computers. V. Elaine Smay wrote a new generation of tiny, lightweight And I mean, really take on the go. Not which was marketed as a portable computer. Under the subheading of "Radio Shack" she measuring seven by 2 3/4 inches by 1/2 an inch, mercury cells with a liquid-crystal display about one and a half usernames on X. The "TRS" referred to the Zilog Z80 microprocessor. It held and had a price tag of $250 - which But there's something weird here... both a detailing how he uses the device and Sharp PC-1211. What is going on here? Was this Yes. The answer to that question is yes. But before we dive into THAT mess, I ordered a up a can of archaic computer confusion worms It looked perfect - I found what appeared Computer with fresh batteries in its leather case, cassette player accessory, backup printer note on the box says it was purchased from There's probably a Boeing joke in here about It powers up great but the LCD screen has all of not too surprising - this is apparently a common time. I actually found an incredible tutorial but I can read mine well enough for The cassettes are what allow you to store and 2," and that's when THIS pilot crashed into a Both of these are programmed for the TRS-80 Pocket PC-1. "Games 1" is for the PC-2, which was the My TRS-80 Pocket Computer was released on July in 1982 after the PC-2 was introduced. None compatible with the PC-1. So, Games 2 is Yeah. This is... pretty obnoxious. But it's fine, WRONG. I don't have the cables to actually connect the cassette player. Alright. So, I Google search website called 8-bit Classics that sells unbox it, sit down to play Games 2, and surprise! It still doesn't work. One end of THIS cable has a 5-pin connector, It's like they're messing with me on It turns out this cable is for the NOT the TRS-80 Pocket Computer get a hammer to smash through my temple, ounces of steel through my temporal I reached out to the guy who sold me the helpful by explaining how he'd repair the tapes I'd need that because I was buying one of the listing that, "Sealed sets quite likely the cassette (detach leader from magnetic tape) I needed the tape usable. He responded in minutes and sent me a listing I actually want to say more about this - I've encountered a bunch of really tech eBay sellers. So many of them are serious new generations to enjoy the same thrills they So I grabbed the cables and got ready for I'm drinking science juice. Actually, it's just decorate, and support over 150 years of Featuring our new logo designed specifically between decades of iconic framed office or workshop walls. They make a great gift your Uncle Stu or your Uncle YOU. So please click everything. Please grab something from our store So whatever, I threw it all in a box for a of American industry to figure out what was going some fly-by-night electronics company riding the truth is that Tandy was so huge THEY WERE Norton Hinckley and Dave L. Tandy founded in 1919 - they supplied leather to shoemakers. there was a burgeoning market for supplying and by 1950, Hinckley and Tandy broke up so and Charles Tandy could And Charles was totally right about the Popular Science billed itself on every cover as Business exploded for the Tandy Leather Company, and in 1955 they merged with the American 1960 the Tandy Corporation was publicly Then Charles Tandy grew so ambitious that it Here is a small sample of the businesses spree. In 1962, they got into with Cost Plus Imports - which Then they got into home improvement by get a whole department store chain that sells 1963 it was obvious that electronics was the Radio Shack was founded in 1921 and was radio equipment. By the 1960's, they'd already and electronics enthusiasts through 9 retail themselves deep in debt from selling products on - and he was ready to do for electronics what In 1970 Tandy bought Allied Radio and that's when the Department of Justice against Tandy that eventually forced them to Even so, Tandy had taken hobbyists from the Trinity of personal computing was born. In 1977, the Commodore PET 2001, the Apple II, and the TRS-80 desktop marked the programmable computers could be easily purchased hardcore enthusiasts had to put together their own and the industry-wide competition it launched made Everyone knows Apple today - half of you are But in 1977, Tandy was as significant as Apple through the massively successful Radio than McDonald's. They dominated early personal But then everything slowly unraveled. who had somehow built the Tandy Corporation died. Their grip on the PC market didn't just "Trash-80." And now the guy running Radio Shack's It was all such a precipitous didn't seem so bad in comparison - so Those new cables were all 3.5mm jacks, and what to have two 3.5mm jacks and one 2.5mm jack. I and waiting for that to show up bought I bought TRS-80 Pocket Computer Programs code for 50 exciting programs like and Klingon Killer. BASIC is an acronym Instruction Code, and it was designed to be Hi! I'm anyone. And I have no idea what I'm doing. I actually went to Drexel University for computer who on the first day of class said half of and I decided to be the first to help him seemed to love programming, or at least not to a digital film program and wrote, about a reclusive guy trying to buy milk. Thankfully, the guide that came with the go through the tutorial on writing programs 1982's interactive home movie version of I wanted to see what the Pocket After about 15 minutes of meticulously typing INPUT "MYSTERY NUMBER=";S and storing I switched to RUN mode, typed in the RUN First you have to choose which mystery to solve. I chose mystery 2. Who killed the Duke? Gardene is supposed to be Gardener, and wrote "Gardner" so I spelled it correctly in my a typo and that it was just working within a Now it asks "Whodunit?" and you just guess Was it the Butler? Not the it starts over again. Who Killed The or Burglar? Whodunit? Nanny? Not the Nanny! On my with an endless series of BEEPS and a "Right!" And that's it. That's the game. Surely the games sold to consumers on cassette I got the jack adapters and I'm ready to find of that Popular Science article discussing the The answer is: they're the same thing. Tandy just rebranded pocket computers throughout the 80s. The PC-1 was a rebranded and the PC-3 was also a Sharp model the PC-4 through the PC-7 before The PC-8 was released in Japan in 1983, Tandy until 1987. So their final was to release a 4-year old computer... And that was it. The line of Tandy Ok. It's game time. Since my PC-1 can't play Games 1 because it Taskforce, Lander, and TicTacToe. so I've got Bandit, Numguess, Pslot, Craps, These programs are loaded into the Pocket I've ever heard in my entire life. It's like except someone decided to murder a pig on top extremely high-pitched squeal. So you put the tape with the TONE and VOLUME cranked up all the Then you hear this: headphone warning. Yeah. And despite being subjected to a if the program is loading properly or not. it's making progress or it's just going Which is exactly what happened to me. I spent over 6 hours trying to properly. The noise does stop if so when I heard silence I figured I was And there were only 2 backup batteries in At least they were the 675 zinc air aids so I could grab them at my local pharmacy. Oh, and the name on the back shows this was Miles Johnson from Boeing, I was able to load three of the One-Armed Bandit, and Acey Ducey. And What happens is the instructions load, but as "2........" error with a corresponding line the instructions for Acey Ducey end with "GOOD The seller suggested I try flipping the tapes over as a built-in backup in case one side isn't the prospects of it working were... build in a complete and total backup Flipping the tape did help some of but none of them would ever play. So after all The printer attachment works, so I can output my but the ink ribbon inside has obviously I found a tutorial from a guy named 8-bit cutting up Sharpies. Which... looks almost as But at the time, the Pocket Computer was so fiction writers of all time was so blown Isaac Asimov won a Hugo Award in 1966 Foundation series. It beat Lords of the Rings. He wrote or edited over 500 books and A January 11, 1982 issue of InfoWorld the Pocket Computer. It's called converts to word processing," and in it comes to the computer he described in the Asimov looked at the computer, nodded That same issue has a personal ad for a guy in remote Michigan looking to II owners. Wonder what ever happened The Pocket Computer fulfilled the world-defining technofuturistic minds who ever lived - but Tandy Computers. The ONLY book I could find Colorful History of Tandy's Underdog Computer," single paragraph by basically just saying, "Oh, ... which means I decided to make Tandy Computer historians are Because of that I wanted to dig deeper into over a TRS-80 Micro Color Computer that was in no cables and a cassette deck falling apart he was trying to repair it. When I tried to plug So yeah. Sorry dude. I ordered what I thought, again, was a it has the original box and everything. Everything AHHHHHHHHHHHHH. Luckily, I have a ton of old RF adapters from No. No, they do not work fine. They don't A 2011 message board post on Vintage that without a physical switch on the adapter, the color computer cannot switch A female RCA plug to male F connector that get some kind of broken signal with the TV on GUESS WHAT. This TV that I found in a dumpster HAS 6. There's not even a channel 5! The front panel ADD Channel 4 - but no, I have to BE ON channel This is a Kafka-esque Catch Tandy-2. The Sony KV-1393R manual I found online tells channels. I dug around and found an old Sony to go to Channel 4 and this has no ENTER button. I an even older Sony remote with an ENTER button, And... IT WORKS. The lesson is: never, Then when I was recording footage of it over and noticed A SWITCH TO CHOOSE fell down all 354 stairs in the Statue of But now that it's working, I have no I bought some more TRS-80 Micro Computer listing said they were for the color computer instructions say to press play on the cassette, memory size question mark never appears so happens and I get a screen with the letter "S." Yeah, apparently the TRS-80 Micro Color Computer isn't compatible with any of the So I'm back to just making my own. I found an amazing relic when I was searching for from The Children's Television Workshop. Now it's Sesame Street, and their old computing magazine David Hasselhoff as Knight Rider, and a kid have been the greatest magazine ever for early called "BASIC TRAINING" that gave you code for The December 1984 issue with Sting as coin flipping game, so it's time to After another 15 minutes of typing in the code and 190 with code specific to the TRS-80, the money I want to start with and I put $500. Then what combination of heads and tails to bet Your computer opponent then chooses to flip the coin until one of animation of a coin or anything - it's until I ran out of money and it asked No. No, I do not. The TRS-80 Coin Flip game but it does reflect a groundbreaking era of the neolithic wheel carved from solid wood But despite Tandy's pioneering and people left who know their name are In 1992, Irvin Farman wrote "Tandy's Money Into the World's Largest Electronics Chain." It "We have the dream, the organization, and The opportunities are everywhere." And But just a year after that book came out, a factories to AST Research, who were then after that. In another 2 years that division was So what killed Tandy? Ruthless competition? The breakneck innovation? Stubbornly not allowing Radio Shack? The "Trash-80" nickname and the Yeah, it was everything. and he got it until his dream had disappeared. Apple, Microsoft, Intel, Dell, IBM, HP, Samsung - of computers, and we all know their names. are increasingly lost to time, regardless of I wanted to end this video by creating an but it was just beyond my skill set. My friend that converts any image into a BASIC program, file onto my computer without building or I had to settle for an emulator really is a fitting end for trying An emulator is a software program that but simulates the experience of another the past is through simulation - We can't return to the feeling of the explosive what Asimov did when he saw the first to create a re-enactment with a machine or substitute a simulacrum and hope that R. U. N. Enter. And sometimes good enough See you in the future.