They drove far into the desert - - and suddenly you saw a forest And beside them a city of tents, And it was already quite adventurous. It was the perfect backdrop Immensely extravagant and exclusive. In two days they used the one that answered A huge event with guards It was a big responsibility Historically and politically, it is East and West - - industrialized countries and developing countries - - communist countries and monarchies. Everyone was there. The party is somewhat similar to a debutante ball. The idea was probably to enroll among But it was the wrong bang. When you spend hundreds of millions, One day you will be asked If you watch morning TV today - - you can see the heads of state arriving - on the occasion of the 2500th anniversary - which was once called the Persian Empire. I'll turn it over to Barbara Walters. There is so much at stake - both historical - that we just take a review Who? Our host is - which means 'king of kings'. Shahanshah of Iran Muhammad Reza He is among the world's richest men. The Shah appoints the Prime Minister, - controls the army, can declare war He controls the press His word is simply law. I feel convinced that I believe in god, - that I believe I am called by God Furthermore, there is a close relationship - that does it - which people from the outside may not understand. It was for the coronation of the Shah Back then I was very fond of art - - and enjoyed the embroideries I went to Shah Reza Street I remember, - next to the shah and looking tired. I was not politically engaged I was more busy No elections were held then. The people the Shah surrounded himself with - - was a blast As time passed - - we felt the urge to learn more. Finding our place in the world, It was difficult just to be allowed to If one was caught - you were beaten half to death. And if it was a weak person, I was his servant. His minister. His son-in-law. The shah was principled. The Shah loved his country. He was intelligent and kind. All those qualities he had, The new shah arrives at the parliament The former crown prince - now sits on the peacock throne. The new shah has promised to be smaller The former shah exploited the people, The new shah will not have it easy. Iran will probably continue to figure It came right behind the shah - - when the father abdicated. When the father left, he wept and said: &quot;Take me with you.&quot; He was beside himself and had no idea, He was different from his father. The father was a military man Shahen went to school in Switzerland. He had a completely different personality - but tried to imitate him. There are two things Money and status. Who is here today? 69 heads of state are participating The list includes an emperor, eight kings, - five emirs, - a princess, two governors-general, - four princes, three vice-presidents, - four prime ministers, - and a First Lady. Had we known what we were getting into, I entered the picture in October 1970. The Shah's sister summoned me one day. She said, - to celebrate the 2500th anniversary the following year. &quot;You must be in charge of the party - - and join in, People thought the party was a joke. I went to the Minister of Justice Mr. Alam - that he used the influence of the court A few days later, the shah reduced - - a planning committee And then it was taken more seriously. The Tourist Board had selected two hotels. Sir. Alam suggested, The streets were dirty, Then we went to Hotel Cyrus. There was no actual hotel, Then we drove to Persepolis. It was a two-lane road Back then, Persepolis was a wilderness. There was nothing. Suddenly it dawned on us, We drove back to Shiraz. "This is of national importance. - I shoot you all - - and afterwards I shoot myself. A few days later I pointed out - - that the place was teeming And that you could well forget &quot;The invitations have been sent out,&quot; It was too late. Then we had to start over We sprayed poison in a radius - and filled a whole truck with creeps. Green snake: dangerous. Intellectuals had the side last - that the background of the colonization and Then the Shah's father and his ministers - most of them were educated They were adamant about introducing - as well as So cultural resurgence was - to secularize Iran. Once upon a time there was a shah tall and handsome was Shah Reza. He had a quick temper, A man of few words. He said 'J', A man of few words. He said 'S', A quick temper a quick temper Throughout his reign was But he probably wanted too - and just like saying: I did not see him while he was in exile. He never tried He only gave me one good piece of advice: "You should never be afraid It is not possible. Purely physical Death does not frighten me. I have seen it in the eyes That day will come, But mentally I am If you look at Iran in the 1950s - - can the clash between Mossadeq The shah was to rule, not rule. Mossadeq was not He wished - so that the shah The Shah felt that he was losing power. PERSIAN Uprising In the Middle East have incidents in Iran The shah and his empress have - after the Imperial Guard had to - when the shah had refused to disband I hadn't lost hope. After all, only two days passed, Mossadeq was overthrown in a coup Until 1953 - - I only experienced pain - - suffering and humiliation. He returns in 1953 - - knowing that it was - for his benefit. And knowing that he will come to one He had two options He could try - even if you were him There is a lot of radicalism Or rule with a heavy hand. With rising oil revenues - - and increasing trust - he established - and tried to find a way It was Iranian New Year, When Mr. Alam came back, &quot;Why don't we set up tents?&quot; &quot;Just like the old days. The French company Jansen - that we set up prefabricated houses. And then we cover them with plastic, Sir. Alam was very efficient. He found the simplest solution. He brought in professional people - and to cook the food Back then, Maxim's was considered The Vaudable family We were in Boston because Maxim's was standing Here Mr. Vaudable confided to us: "I can't say much, but I was both worried - to have to play a small role The idea was that it should be There was no talking When Mr. Alam had signed - got the party a lot of attention At an airfield outside Paris They must stand in that camp, - for the celebration of Cyrus the Great - 2500 years ago. Cyrus the Great has Is allegedly mentioned in the Koran, mentioned The Persians also valued him. As one of the few, he has a tombstone, A figure that all political wings He is a humanist He set the Jews free, he thought Cyrus becomes the blank canvas, the shah - so he can share in the glory. He introduced as the first We have the roll. Or it is in your museum, Had these values The longer the shah was in power, It was the opposite of The secret police raided. They looked everywhere, I couldn't understand that with everyone Then I started getting into politics. The problem was that the White Revolution - and primarily aimed at - as the philanthropic monarch, So it was more propaganda If you are unhappy with that country - and with half the population, - then I can't do anything about it. Khomeini was a cleric. The grandfather and the father The idea that Iran not first - was completely unacceptable to him. Khomeini's first reaction was &quot;Stop it. The Shah does not answer, but lets They slam the doors, It is a declaration of war Older politicians, - said to the shah, He dismissed them None from the new generation &quot;It is wrong. I have found myself forced to... ... to send one of the stubborn, He had to leave. &quot;The disgraceful White Revolution, - that 15,000 Muslims were killed - has made the destiny of our people In many of our cities - there are neither doctors There are neither schools, In certain villages - that they eat grass in the fields. But the tyrannical rule - at various disgraceful parties. The worst is the celebration of the 2500th anniversary Let the world know that noble, Muslim Everyone who participates in it - - are traitors to Islam I'm probably more religious myself I have been all my life - but I believe in the true religion - - The religion of God and the Prophet. Not that, - that will make their religion into On the country's southern plains You wait impatiently for the train. What is your biggest wish? A better life, lots of money Isn't there a certain thing? Anything would please me. - Isn't there anything you want? - Have you seen the shah? But that is my greatest wish Who is the shah? The shah is the god of the people. We pray for him In Iran, the word shah was associated The Iranians could At least when I was young, - and with a country, The Shah was part of our everyday life. The world's greatest show The Shah has invited - from places like Norway, - on a three-day stay Also a British delegation. When Princess Anne and the Duke - they must like the others In this tent, actually, Each tent is equipped - - with six crystal glasses on a tray - a scented candle in a glass cylinder - and an ornamented one When Princess Anne wants morning tea, - sleeping too close to the tent It is, like the rest, fully equipped. The tents are tastefully placed 15,000 pieces - and 15,000 flowering shrubs. In the top secret party tent is kept There is also Are you satisfied with everything? It was a bit like the coronation. There was so much to see, We must celebrate Make sure it goes well, You are so busy that you don't have time It is only afterwards, Right now we're just scraping by. I had worked eight seasons I was called that the shah - and that we should therefore We were 40-50 employees from Hotel Palace. I took the train home from my valley and My friends stayed at the Hotel Hilton When we boarded it was quiet - - too many were afraid to fly. Most had never been I remember, - and he said: &quot;Down there underground The royals from the three Scandinavians - and I brought that with me I remember the queens talking about, Queen Anne-Marie had them Everyone brought something, and I said: "Compared to Empress Farah's - because she has the world At first I just thought, - and as they say Smart and snobbish, However, I had other thoughts. The trees were planted out in the desert - - and I thought it was a story, - that you had imported - who after the three days would die, They ordered a lot of sparrows There was not enough water in the area - then suddenly one of them was dragged down, But he wanted it I do not know what all those trees They built a golf course It was unusual I didn't think you could - with bakery and cold room. It surprised me a lot. Day after day a plane delivered A large block of ice came - and we went out into the desert to it Only the last day - that the ice was chopped into pieces I guess I had read about it - - and when I was employed for - and that was the end of the party I stayed in Tehran for several days. An interesting thing, - how dissatisfied many were There was criticism of - when there was no money I met some of the critics, &quot;You're going to an underground meeting, I sat in a room, - and they were very angry with the shah. &quot;This is a false empire,&quot; "His father was a farmer. They spend hundreds - which we cannot afford We were suggested James Mason - - another guy, - and Orson Welles. Cyrus, King of Kings - - who fought for human rights Cyrus, the founder - a country five times its size - where this shah today reigns. It has fallen to him after one - to remind the world and his own people It was incomparable. I got chills. It was unusual - - when the shah spoke to Cyrus and said: &quot;Just sleep. We're awake.&quot; &quot;Just sleep, Kyros. We are awake.&quot; They weren't awake. The unusual thing was, - was suddenly there ... a dust devil, As he repeats his words, It was quite unusual. &quot;How did they do it?&quot; I asked. I thought it was arranged. It was like a play, It was like an opera, the scene... And I was moved. &quot;O Cyrus, great king-- - king of kings, Achaemenid king, - I, the Shah of Iran, - on behalf of myself and my nation. In this glorious period - I bow and all other Iranians, - you founded 2500 years ago, Those were very bad times in Iran - - with terror and repression. So it felt very artificial. When he said: - was it a joke. From that moment the shah became - - a symbol of absurdity and hatred. Even after all these years - - is it conspicuous, The opposition focused &quot;Just sleep, Kyros. We are awake.&quot; People joked about it: "Just sleep while we ruin the country Just sleep while we waste The day before it all started - - Mr. Alam gathered us &quot;From tomorrow you are on your own. If something goes wrong, - and solve your problems yourself. I still get goosebumps Mid October 1971 - - 62 heads of state gathered - in a patchwork of colours, where Familiar faces from the world stage - surrounded by honor guards That's how it was. Too much happened, Ceremonial and etiquette should None of those present saw everything. This is how one of the most started I was the only one sitting back I could not sleep. This was so extensive - - that even the smallest thing One of the African countries - for permission to Five was the maximum number. He said it was his bodyguards - - and that two of them should sleep And His Majesty said, &quot;Good, And he had ten with him. Haile Selassie arrived by plane I was completely on the floor - - for who should take care It was nothing They were small, beautiful homes, where everything Some of the kings and queens - or left their tent open. Imagine Prince Philip waving - and Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier. Everyone greeted each other I haven't seen anything like it Everything was done extremely tastefully. It was by no means nouveau riche It was good taste. They were very beautiful tents, - and in the drawer there was, - an effervescent tablet and a Tampax. After all, so were the distinguished guests You couldn't walk three steps The King of Denmark tried to come They later found out, They were very strict. We heard that up in the mountains - - were guerrilla forces, In 1971, the guerrilla wars were increasing There were the Vietnam opponents, It wasn't the middle class there They wanted to bring about changes in their The Shah's rule did not distinguish - - between political opposition So let's fight. All universities were closed - - for safety reasons All student representatives Is it true that it is forbidden What were they demonstrating against? I don't think that's the case at all. Critics in the West considered the shah Five Monarchs Their excuses They were under a lot of pressure - for not participating. Some were bad at fashion The British were not much in favor - when he carried himself like that &quot;We don't want a situation - - where it is perceived that our When you gather all the countries of the world - - is it in an attempt to The festivities are not for the people, They are the ones who are important They arrested me a month before the party. I remember they were on The prison was so overcrowded that man No one else could lie there, Even though I'm small, my legs stuck out. Your Majesty, some believe - - that Iran should not spend millions - when there are still people in need. What do you answer them? Firstly: The only costs - are the two official dinners, It is the least we can do Everyone arrived at the entrance It was absolutely fantastic. It was the greatest experience of my life There was so little space. The Council of Ministers was not involved. There was simply no room. You hadn't thought about what you They were installed in the tent city, No one had considered what was needed - where the shah and the shahbanu They began to be pressed together, The problem was, - and that everyone didn't get in So after a while there was a queue. - that kings have priority There were too many of them, - so there were two queues. One with kings and queens - as presidents It was absolutely incredible. And there was a sandstorm, - and the crowns were kept, There was a rustle in the skirts, - and they tried to squeeze in The sandstorm came I feared that someone would get It was horrible. Not exactly like that, People didn't know Several of the Europeans were related - - but many did not know each other, &quot;It is the Emperor of Japan, So people just stood in the corners How did the royals come Brilliant. The communists and the royals - as is often the case. The Russians had killed, - but it was forgotten. The butler passed out at the party Five people had to hold him - where he was given a sedative. He couldn't handle the pressure. He stood with all the heads of state, It's not so nice I don't think the guests noticed, Half an hour from or to. I don't think they realized It was very hot in the kitchen area, They had taken off most of their clothes - - and many of the men The menu was in the big book here. With a nice little mirror, First course was quail eggs The best of the best. And it was caviar. Not bread. There was caviar for the big dinner, The etiquette around this Everyone saw where everyone else was supposed to sit, So it was on at the same time. It was very interesting There were three waiters at each table, The army came and checked, It was France's greatest wines. Champagne: 2500 bottles. Chateau Haut-Brion, Bordeaux: 1000 bottles. Burgundy: 1000 bottles. The next dish was crayfish mousse Loin of lamb from highland lamb - - stuffed and fried in its own juice. French lamb. Boneless and stuffed with minced meat And the dish was decorated I actually almost got it I just sat and looked around at people. The tablecloth was one piece of cloth, &quot;Imperial peacock surrounded by his court.&quot; Peacock. Who eats peacock? The peacock was only for decoration. We deboned and stuffed small quails And the quails were then served - so that the court should The sound and light show ... I remember, - and everyone was tired and wanted better - instead of being crammed together Open the gates guarded by winged bulls When the show was over, It was pitch black. Three minutes is a long time. I ran up to the control room As I ran away - - the fireworks started They thought, In San Francisco set an explosion - the three-storey high No one was hurt. Numerous Iranians had demonstrated - of the 2500th anniversary of his dynasty. We cover that event live It was shown on television all over the world. What you don't pay So it was an excellent thing. It was only at such an event - - that you could collect - and induct them into Iran's history. In what the country had been and was now, They came in - - and began to beat their drums It was so beautiful - - that everyone sat and gaped. We stand firmly on our feet - - and God willing, we must develop. With or without other countries - we enter the magnificent Regaining the respect of former times. And I hope you know - from vain motives. I am full of humility - - but I feel very safe 'The Magnificent Civilization' - in all speeches The intention was - and help us get started To make us confident as Iranians. As an Iranian, it touched me deeply. It still does today. Iranians who were not accepted - - and which was considered When I saw that... It affected me greatly. The first thing they did was If they found something on one, - they beat one until they got it out I can only say that we are now - to use the same methods, - to question the persons, - Who exactly are you alluding to? They have effective interrogation methods - - which are more psychological We just do as you do. - Is it justified? If one has betrayed one's country, They tied one's hands and feet. They had different whips They started with the thickest. When one's feet swelled, If they used one that was too thick, You watch movies - that even at police stations - - are officers and investigators - - it gets so furious - that they lose their temper - or smashes a chair These are human reactions, I told the presidents - - that they should not teach me We were the ones who taught them - and can you spot anyone today? Why spend all those millions? The history of Iran is the history of Iran. You're not fooling us. Your rule is a police state, You want to be considered You have not made Iran more magnificent. What makes one Iranian? What quality binds tribes - together with one, What is it, It's not for propaganda, Is it them? Yes, right now it is. The highlight of the party. The first glimpse - outside Tehran airport You can say that the monument is - who acts for them And the sad thing about it is - - that the good life always When the planes took off - - Alam summoned me I went into each one of them - - and made a list of the inventory. Many of the things were gone. - Who had it? The heads of state? I hate to accuse anything We ordered 50 pieces. And there was only one left. Maybe it was them I don't have the exact numbers - - but it must have been If you believe that the entire country's wealth - then it's a lie outright, You pitch some tents, invite It doesn't swallow I went to London to cut And then I sent the film to Tehran - - so that the Minister of Culture could see it. Instead it was displayed When the shah saw the film - - he said: You have built an island in the middle of Iran - - and offer your people nothing else He turned everyone against him. The opposition gathered All right from the left - - to Khomeini, who was in exile. &quot;God Almighty sent Moses - - to kill the blasphemous king - - who sought away from the right path. And showed us that we have to - and overthrow all the kings of our time. If we decide to, God holds his hand over Muslims, Foreign leaders and kings They all come to I'm ready. There is format above a person, &quot;I apologize Those are beautiful words. As your king, I would like to repeat I swear that the mistakes of the past - - evil and corruption We should have apologized. Everyone from the Prime Ministers to me, It wasn't him. We neglected our duties, It must feel lonely It is a very special ... situation, How special? To be the king of kings, Does that mean you are lonely? ... You have no one over you, There is always God. It was not exclusive I blame myself and know We started - and imitate the modern countries. I remember - - that I asked When I got to high school, - and somehow forgot about religion. I blame myself - - that I didn't think of, - and prayed three times a day. I went out into the kitchen - what kind of food should he cook, He turned his back on me and let I was not aware, We didn't think about This was once a great land, - is it one of those countries Whether you want it or not. I do not condemn that party. We never had our freedom. We wanted to read and understand. We wanted peace. When I look back, I see And for what? To read books. And to criticize the shah. They said we should chase girls - and they offered us money - - to keep us out of politics. It cannot be done anywhere. Neither then, in The Islamic Young people always want to