Down a long, quiet road central California, there's used for concrete where Amazon launches under 5 pounds to a handful town. Or at least that's I would love to see the You know, I can't wait. I haven't seen any yet. A decade ago, Amazon created announced big plans for This looks like science Wow. Amazon is testing delivery Last summer, it finally said making true commercial year, starting in two small Texas, and Lockeford, promises about scale. Delivering 500 million by the end of this decade. So far, Amazon told us it's We headed to Lockeford in activity on the warm, calm And we weren't alone. Maybe they thought they were December, but I haven't But where Amazon has drone programs have taken tens of thousands of far. We went to see Wing, a company Alphabet, at a Hollister, California, as the FAA with 37 drones in So tell me a little bit How big is it? How much How much can it carry? So it's it's about, it's around three pounds of So this is a box that's got it. And we went to Arkansas, thousands of commercial DroneUp, focused on U.S. drone inspections and known for making hundreds deliveries in Rwanda. We operate in three states Utah. And for some of the that we serve day-in and drone delivery a thing, not also now boring. We wanted to find out why point yet. And despite the same stringent U.S., why competitors like companies like Google are In 2013, then-CEO Jeff Bezos Amazon drones that he said in about 4 or 5 years. He called it Prime Air. Half-hour delivery? And we can carry objects, which covers 86% of the But a decade later, Amazon commercial deliveries at I think those of us who were could foresee many of the to actually fulfill that via drone is a very what we're talking about is autonomous drones carrying heads, avoiding structures, And this is a particularly United States because we complex airspace in the In 2020, Amazon brought in David Carbon to lead Prime It's actually not that hard drone. It's a very design, build, certify and safety-critical system that populated environments airspace. Carbon announced the deliveries on LinkedIn on Then in mid-January, Carbon employees that the goal is in 2023. Four months later, Amazon commercial deliveries and changed. Amazon told CNBC FAA broadened Prime Air's deliveries to include sites phased process for is taking longer than we after Carbon's January number of Prime Air workers largest round of layoffs in And in March, Amazon only delivering to two next door to each other warehouse. I would love to sign up for Thomas and his wife and son for 20 years where some for lunch. One guy said they had 14 seems kind of low to me. Safety, Amazon says, remains explain taking it slow. There have been multiple site in Pendleton, Oregon, sparked a 20-acre brush In a statement, Amazon is a closed testing to learn the limits of our never had an incident delivery flight. When you build a new new robotic system, it is And you just have to work failing. Amazon's drone design has the years from a vertical eight exposed rotors, to a enclosed rotors, to a vertically and then fly The latest design was first Now it's on its second We got to see it at an So how fast does it actually So this this drone flies The MK27-2 is about 5.5 feet pounds without anything on So if the drone encounters flying, it'll fly around And if when it gets to its runs underneath the drone. We won't deliver the technology that's required features means that the For years, Amazon has been flights. But the U.S. is a particularly tough commercial aviation. That means that until a gets certified as an actual Aviation Administration, delivery. When you're introducing technology set where we are autonomously without policy shift. In other parts of the world be as dense, where they history with aviation, it autonomous drone That's why many drone Wing, Zipline and the ones Holdings, started in other Australia, Africa and the In the U.S., only five succeeded at getting air the FAA. It's called Part It's the same authorization transportation. Think medical airlifts, scenic flights. The FAA granted Amazon Part multiple levels of Part 135 Prime Air drones, along trying to do delivery, federal exemptions that how they can fly, like roadways and people. The FAA also greatly limits visual line of sight, known Meant to ensure a human will other aircraft that could perhaps the biggest current scalability. How many of your resources towards BVLOS? I would say all, like in the otherwise, like, you know, airplane. Introduced in February, the for American Drones Act of BVLOS approvals process. We helped write the We got bipartisan support Senator Thune to submit The reason this is really a drone industry is this is industry, the FAA and But for now, getting around tricky. If it goes beyond visual waiver. You need to have the with the FAA. One big way to get that what's known as detect and Amazon calls its system The idea is to identify aircraft and people and like a chimney or a automatically steer clear That actually turns out to solve if you're trying to raining? What if there are cameras won't allow us to What if it's dark out? So a lot of folks have solving this problem. Most problem, like LIDAR or operate in all weather, They're also very power consumptive, which for vehicles that are Zipline uses microphones to avoid other aircraft. The FAA just certified system so its drones can sight. This is the first BVLOS system that can fly over CEO Keller Rinaudo Clifton Zipline drones to deliver from the Walmart in from. In absence of a certified in the U.S., the way that trying to do drone delivery standing where the vehicle vehicle can't fly farther This also means many dark, and some are sending deliveries at customer Like that person's getting watch that drone. And if the cost. So very quickly to make sense for anybody somebody to do that. In late 2021, Amazon wrote MK27-2 drone. The goal was to point out upgrades in hopes the FAA restrictions that prohibit nearby or over people, But in November, the FAA saying Amazon didn't show the MK27-2 could roads or structures. It didn't stop Amazon from Gradually, in Lockeford and Amazon told CNBC the two of their demographics and The FAA cares about two They care about you aircraft and they care the ground. So if you were means there's less people for injury, and there's traffic. Cost effectiveness is rural over urban markets In those urban environments, the efficiency that they the driver who has, who has dropping stuff off in a whatever it is. Where it environments. And that if taking something out to ten miles out, like it can to do that. That's why for now, very happens in major cities. Yet some big players have certifications with fewer In 2019, Wing and the became the first two to get By 2022, UPS announced it deliveries with Matternet's In September, Matternet the FAA's type it to transport cargo and In contrast, Amazon and individual exemptions for people and active roadways. Meanwhile, Wing says it's deliveries, thousands of Virginia and Texas, but far Woodworth says the solidified. Wing delivers Coles grocery to homes in Australia. The service area that we and 100,000 people and it's geographically constrained So if you look at metrics seeing on the order of a day to that one snapshot Wing is also doing U.S. deliveries of Walgreens cream from restaurant consignment type goods from marketplace. DoorDash and branding on the lightweight lowered to the ground. It delivers from about 21 And there's another 10 feet So if if this does happen grabs it and is trying to it'll just go to, it'll and it'll just unspool and it's not tied to anything. Last year, Zipline became Part 135 certification, and and avoid system means it of sight and over people. Although it won't break out Rinaudo Cliffton says it's commercial deliveries with It has Styrofoam. I mean, it It's like, yeah, it's inexpensive. And our it's inexpensive. It's wing. The way you deliver You know, this aircraft parachute. It's like, yes, because the vehicle doesn't humans. Zipline, it's more I don't have to worry about It's secure in our here and we get a delivery, backyard. So it really And emissions. And global like it that no delivery In March, Zipline unveiled a lowers a droid to the A growing list of companies using the new drone: salad pizza chain, a health care The thing that's really been that Zipline achieved 40 autonomous miles with zero before we sought DroneUp is another with Walmart. CEO Tom done more than 110,000 We have 34 locations today and we're delivering The routes are designed to people, minimize flight chooses the optimum route standpoint but from an Overall, Walmart says it's deliveries across seven Zipline, DroneUp and a which in January became the 135 approval, through its Unmanned. But in addition companies are struggling to parts. One of our biggest right now. There's not batteries at scales that We're having to move around six different vendors. Swoop Aero is another Australia, with plans to by the end of next year. CEO Eric Peck says its than 1.4 million items although most of those are commercial. We won the world's first medical drone delivery government of Vanuatu in to now, we've got six three continents, and every people that rely on our healthcare. Wing, Zipline and others may commercial delivery and But the issue of public significant obstacle facing I did think some people First of all, there's The biggest public pushback It's probably spying on me. All the drone companies told record or the video isn't So the cameras on our navigation and they just So they can't move around the operators. So they're figure out where it is. And then there's the noise. Some residents worry drones feel of Lockeford. There's a field with cows just down the street from You know, I don't know if the drones or not. Horses might be, though. You know, horses are We're constantly working to of the drone. And the three-blade in that category. Prime Air drones are not decibels, according to an That's about the noise conditioning unit. Wing 55 decibels at cruising Zipline says it's coming P2 People completely hate the octocopters sound. It is super annoying. It sounds like an angry zero chance that accept that kind of an and becoming something that multiple times a day. Weather remains another reliable delivery, more so than others. Zipline has a overseas. We fly in really crazy rain dust storms. We fly in wind sometimes the aircraft is relative to the ground. That is a gigantic It's taken us seven years the system. DroneUp had to cancel to see its drones in action Wing says its drones can above 20 knots and moderate Amazon says the MK27-2 weather and it can handle knots. So now Amazon is the MK30, meant to better rain, fly further and be loud. This is our Mark 30, due to service in 2024. The question remains, will matter if user demand It doesn't sound I mean, I'm still trying to the benefit or the perk of be. Customers in Lockeford and that Amazon incentivizes deliveries by offering them Amazon says it was demand the start. We've heard overwhelming excited about this and We listen to our customers to design the most can. Of course skepticism will disruptive new companies told us they it's soon the norm for from the skies. Particularly in an at the finish line yet, I in the space the best luck exist. There's going to be a Boeing There's going to be an And when that happens, it's industry because we're products at better prices. And those unit economics last-mile delivery actually cost effective. I do think you're going to They're not going to be sure, as Amazon hoped or I think it's going to be a but we will eventually get