"Let all the earth fear the Lord; Let all of Him. For He spoke, and it was done; He commanded, The Lord brings the counsel of the nations of no effect. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, The Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, Amen. First of all we need to define and identify confusion. Unbelievable confusion, especially in the on it. Let me say who Israel is or are. They are the descendants of Abraham, Isaac by the second name given to their forefather In bringing forth this nation, God twice made another. Of the sons of Abraham He set aside Ishmael Of the sons of Isaac he set aside Esau and So we have to be very precise. Israel is the nation descended from Abraham, God also made provision for people from other and to be reckoned and Israelites. And, that is still true today. You just had one standing before you. My wife Ruth, who was born a Gentile, married and became legally Jewish. She did that, I may add, before she knew Jesus In her Israeli identity card she is classified A lot of people don't realize this, there nations to become legally and scripturally Now, the thing I want to say again, I've language of the Bible, the church of Jesus The phrase "spiritual Israel" is never "the new Israel". That language goes back to church fathers They were free to say what they had to say by scripture. If you've ever studied Augustine's view want to accept everything that Augustine said. I don't know whether you know it, but by It was a pardonable sin if its sole purpose an unpardonable sin. So, I mean, if you can accept that you may I cannot accept either. But, his name is greatly respected and I don't and did. As I've said, in this book there are seventy-seven Since this book was published I have to acknowledge two more. So, there are altogether, that I know of, But never is the word Israel used as a name times. In all but two of those occasions it's used Testament. In fact, nine passages are direct quotations them the usage in the New Testament is the There are two passages, I'll tell you them Galatians 6:16, where Israel is used in a Paul applies it only to those Israelites who But, in the New Testament Israel is never word Israel. It is never extended to include believers It is a total error to make that use of the People who use that in that way, their conclusions language is not in line with scripture. Now, what God is doing for Israel is the most in the end times. I've spoken in previous talks about other famines, lawlessness, false prophets and so But none of those are unique, they have occurred since the time of Jesus. So by themselves you could argue, well, they're that we are in the end times. But, the restoration of the Jews to their is a unique event, it never happened in the associated in the Bible with the end times. I'll give you just one passage taken from and then I'll read the comment on them at Jeremiah 30:3-7: "For behold, the days are coming, says the [or from exile] my people Israel and Judah, I will cause them to return to the land that it." I suggest to anybody who has even a meager one land that answers to the description "the and Judah." And that is the land which mistakenly is called I say mistakenly because the name Palestine century of this era to blot out every association They did it deliberately and it has been gladly Israel and dispute their claim to that land. As a believer in Jesus I prefer not to use If I use it, it's a concession to the understanding In the Bible, both the Old Testament and the land of Israel. It was originally the land of Canaan. It became the land of Israel and it is still It's the land of Israel whether the Jews by an everlasting covenant. Concerning this return of the Jews to their These are the word that the Lord spoke concerning "For thus says the Lord, We have heard a As I mentioned the other evening, a quite that the return of the Jews to the land of were responsible there would have been peace. He obviously hadn't studied Jeremiah 30 "We have heard a voice of trembling, of And he goes on with an even stronger expression: "Ask now and see whether a male is ever So why do I see every male with his hands faces turn pale?" It depicts a situation so terrible that even The next verse continues: "Alas, for that day is great so that none And it is the time of Jacob's trouble, but Notice not saved from it but saved out of He will have to go through it but God will That's the prediction. And, at the end of that chapter, a final comment It says: "...in the latter days you will consider In other words, this prophecy will not have days. So the restoration of the Jewish people to in this century, is a divine attestation that It's a unique event which is without parallel In a certain sense, I could say--this is hand on God's clock. And as you watch that minute hand move you I would say by human counting we're about Let's consider for a little while God's In 1 Chronicles 17, David prayed a prayer I'm only going to quote a little part of He said to the Lord: "Who is like your people Israel, the one for Himself as a people?" So David said Israel is a unique nation, there the only nation that God went to redeem as What were God's purposes in redeeming Israel? We'll look at just a few of them. In Exodus 19:5-6, God speaks to the people Sinai after the exodus, and He instructs Moses This is what He says, Exodus 19:5-6: "Now therefore, if you will indeed obey be a special treasure to me above all people; So God chose Israel to be a special treasure And then He went on: "And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests So God's destiny for Israel was to be a of priests and a holy nation. I've commented many times in connection God's purposes but he can never ultimately Satan has delayed God's purposes in the align yourself with His purpose, ultimately That is true of Israel. Satan has sought by every means in his power apparently he has achieved much success. But in the last resort, at the end of the a special treasure, a kingdom of priests, And then we turn to the New Testament for In Romans 3:1-2, Paul raises the question "What is the profit [or benefit] of circumcision?" That is, being Jewish. His answer is: "Much in every way, because to them were I prefer to use the word entrust. God entrusted the Jewish people with the revelation that came from the mouth of God. That again is completely unique. No other nation can make any claim whatever It's solely true of the Jewish people of But I understand it that they were not the stewards of God's Word. They would be held accountable for what they One Israelite at least, the apostle Paul, in connection with the Word of God. And so he says in Romans 1:14: "I am a debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, For as much as in me, I am ready to preach In other words, Paul said, "I am under a I have a stewardship. The Word of God was committed to us not that should make it available to all nations." You have to agree Paul was faithful in his And then in Romans 9:4-5, Paul lists seven the Lord, and then one final, supreme honor. Seven plus one. He says of his kinsmen according to the flesh, "To whom pertain [or belong] the adoption..." Number one, they're God's adopted people. Number two, the glory. I understand the word glory to mean the presence I'm very interested in this word because I can't go into it but the word for glory In the philosophy of Plato it means "that So you put the two together and the glory human senses. This was granted to Israel: the pillar of distinguishing feature which no other nation That's number two. Number three, the covenants. And notice the word is plural. Both the Old Covenant and the New Covenant There were only Jews present when the New Four, the giving of the law. The Law of Moses was given uniquely to one The services, or the priestly service of God, Number six, the promises. All the promises of God's Word were given Number seven, "of whom are the fathers." That is, all the patriarchs belong to one So that's seven distinctive privileges and Then the greatest of all, "of whom, according Israel was chosen by God to be the channel to the world. And, He had to prepare Israel carefully for I don't know whether you've ever realized I was preaching once in Singapore to a crowd that are here this evening. As I looked at them I thought to myself there's generations, whose ancestor was not an idolater. It was their whole national history. Then I thought God could never have sent His Why? Because had He obeyed His parents He would So, there had to be a very specially prepared I think we overlook that many times. And all this is summed up in one very short, woman in John 4:22. He said: "Salvation is from the Jews." That's an indisputable objective, historical No Jews, no salvation. Because, had there been no Jews there would no Bible, and, no Savior. So, every other nationality on earth owes which is Israel. I'm not Jewish, I'm Gentile. I, speaking for all Gentile believers say that we can never repay." Furthermore, it cost them as a nation tremendous available to us. The awful aspect of history is that so far our gratitude, basically we have persistently Jewish people for at least sixteen centuries. And, most of the time it has been done in You may feel shocked by that statement but You wonder why they're slow to acknowledge When Ruth was converted to Judaism, which don't need to be converted, you're married But you better think carefully about becoming your way to the gas chamber. You don't have to do it." Her mother-in-law, a wonderful Jewish woman, you may object to this statement but it was because they'll speak very nicely to you chamber." You have to bear in mind that in the thinking were Christians. Hitler was a baptized Catholic. And unfortunately, even many "born again" My first wife, who Denmark had been invaded twice in living memory She said the only reason the Germans turned If he had succeeded they would have supported You may consider that cynical but I'm quoting people. And unfortunately, the great majority of professing of anti-Semitism. But basically, it's a Christian phenomenon. There's not been anything like the same They haven't treated the Jews particularly So, we are faced with a very solemn responsibility. As I've said, we can never repay the debt that was done in the name of Christianity. But we ought to do something about it. Would you agree with that? One of the unique features of Israel was their place in the prophecies of the Bible. Again, there's no other nation that has And I want to give you a list here of sixteen the prophecies of the Bible. I won't give you the reference because it for every single one. First of all, their enslavement in Egypt was (Genesis 15:13) Second, their deliverance with wealth out Abraham. (Genesis 15:14) Third, the fact that they would take possession (Genesis 15:18-20) Fourth, Moses and others predicted that they And, they did. (Deuteronomy 32:15-21) Fifth, it was predicted that God would establish which He did. (Deuteronomy 12:5-6; Psalm 132:13-14) Sixth, the captivity of the northern kingdom fulfilled. (Amos 5:27; 6:14; 7:17) Seventh, the captivity of the southern kingdom and fulfilled. (Jeremiah 16:13; 21:10) Eight, the destruction of the first temple (2 Chronicles 7:19-20) Nine, the return of a remnant from Babylon (Isaiah 6:11-13; 48:20) Ten, the destruction of the second temple, fulfilled. Exactly fulfilled, not one stone left upon (Matthew 24:2; Luke 19:43-44) Eleven, the fact that they would be scattered (Leviticus 26:33-34; Ezekiel 12:15.) And it's estimated in Israel the Jews have one hundred other nations. Twelve, it was predicted that during their And, that has been exactly fulfilled. If you want one scripture that says most of 26:36-39. Thirteen, their regathering from all nations (Isaiah 11:11-12; Zechariah 10:9-10.) Wake up if you don't know that. You are a witness of the fulfillment of Biblical It's happening before your eyes, it's In the last two or three years approximately from the former Soviet Union, from Eastern That's approximately ten percent of the I've shocked Americans by saying if you States coming, you'd get 25 million new Even a nation as powerful and as diverse as of 25 million new immigrants, mostly without of subsistence. What's the population of Britain today? Somebody tell me. 58 million. All right. So, come on, somebody with a mathematical two years. How would Britain respond to that? You say but we're in a time of recession. Dear friends, you know nothing about recession You see, it's a breathtaking event. God actually said that the time would come first exodus because it would be so totally from the north country, which is the Soviet Then there are three more prophecies, and It's predicted that all nations will be (Zechariah 12:2-3; 14:1-2) It's also predicted that there will be a to the people of Israel collectively. (Zechariah 12:10-14) And finally, number sixteen, it's predicted of Olives in power and glory to establish (Zechariah 14:3-5) Now, of those sixteen predictions thirteen last one perhaps partially fulfilled. So, if your mathematics are the same as mine, Think of what that means. If 81% of the recorded predictive prophecies we fanatical or unreasonable to expect that To me it would be unreasonable to doubt it. This is not fanaticism, it's common sense. Do you know what somebody said about common The trouble is it's so uncommon! I want to take just a little while to look predict the end time regathering of Israel There are at least fifty separate passages It is one of the main themes of all Biblical I could not possibly take the time to go into passages. The first one is in Hosea. And by the grace of God it's brief. Hosea 1:10: "Yet the number of the children of Israel be measured or numbered. And, it shall come to pass in the place where there it shall be said to them, 'You are Now, Hosea is the prophet through whom God Where did God say that? In one place, which was the land of Israel. This prophecy says in the same place where in that place it will be said to them, "You In other words, the place from which they will be the place to which they will be regathered Himself as His people. The fact that they are being regathered gives follow. Then I want to turn to one other passage of to start at verse 16. If you have a Bible open, you could try to I'm economizing on time so I'm not going to show you this is a stage by stage prediction of Israel, the regathering of Israel, and The other night we went through Matthew 24, I pointed out to you the key word there is We get a succession of successive phases of the Lord Jesus again in glory. Ezekiel 36 is somewhat similar in that it's of Israel in their own land. So we'll begin in verse 16 of Ezekiel 36. "Moreover, the word of the Lord came to of Israel dwelt in their own land, they defiled Notice it was their own land. So God says because of that, in verse 18: "Therefore, I poured out my fury on them for their idols with which they had defiled He judged them in fury for bloodshed and idolatry. What was the judgment? Verse 19: "So I scattered them among the nations, Verse 20: "When they came to the nations wherever holy name, when they said of them, 'These gone out of His land.'" God was saying in effect, "I was embarrassed First of all, they had to go out of their the way they acted in their exile embarrassed But He never denied that they were His people. Some of us maybe have had children who embarrassed It could happen that there are one or two You know what it is to be embarrassed. But you never denied that they were your children. And if anybody else started to criticize your And remember that when you talk about the If you start to criticize them, you provoke may be true. Verse 21, God says: "But I have concern for my holy name, which nations wherever they went." God said, "I'm going to intervene not glory of my name." And that, you have to understand, is the primary There was an article published in a British two ago which listed many of the failings In this book of mine, my comment on it is job. There was nothing they left out. But the same prophets who pronounced the condemnation It's totally illogical to accept the condemnation Verse 22: "Therefore, say to the house of Israel, this for your sake, O house of Israel, but Don't imagine that you deserve it, you don't. The reason I'm doing it is to redeem the Verse 23: "And I will sanctify my great name which you have profaned in their midst. And the nations shall know that I am the Lord, sanctified] in you before their eyes." In other words, I'm going to give glory the nations will see. But never does God suggest they deserve it. Let me ask you this question, how many of Some of you think you did but you didn't. I remember when I was first saved, having qualifications. I had the impression that God was pretty lucky I never said that! But the longer I lived with myself the more when He took me. In fact, if I had been God I wouldn't have And the same is true of every one of you, You've got nothing to boast about and you your salvation. By grace we have been saved through faith, of God; not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are His workmanship created in Christ should walk in it. So, don't start to boast. And don't boast against Israel. Paul specifically warns us about that in Romans Don't adopt a superior attitude and say, Brothers and sisters, if you and I got what Is that true? I think it's good to remind ourselves sometimes Actually, grace cannot be deserved. If it's deserved it's not grace. Verse 24, God explains how He's going to "For I will take you from among the nations, you into your own land." Notice it's their own land. It's their land whether they're in it It never has belonged to any other human group Lots of other people have lived in it but Verse 25: "Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, from all your filthiness and from all your Now a lot of Christians have the impression--it's to go back, at least they've got to be converted Not so. God says, "I'll bring you back in filthiness And when you're back, I'll deal with you." There's a practical reason for that which so individualistic in our view of Christianity. Got has always dealt with Israel not just people, united by covenant to Him and by covenant And so, when God is going to deal with Israel people as one. And to do that He has to get them back in There's only one logical place and that I believe that process of sprinkling clean I think it's the Word of God. The Word of God is compared to clean water. Jesus said to His disciples, "You are clean I've been associated with Israel off and changes take place. In the 1940s, many times if you would speak of Jesus he would spit in your presence as But that attitude has largely changed--not And the time it really began to change, according year of what? The Six Day War when Jerusalem again came That was one of the most critical dates in For centuries Jews would not use the Hebrew Because, they refused to admit He was Jewish. They said, "He's Gentile. He's the Gentile Messiah, He's got nothing You would find that they would use the name But this has changed. In many magazines today they freely use the That's exciting. Ruth and I have a number of secular Jewish We've observed that when they're around And sometimes we think why don't they go? We've come to understand they're waiting in our lives. Specifically how He answers our prayers. Don't use religious language to Jewish people people. They want to know if a thing works. If you can show them something works, they'll I think I must tell this story, it's comical. When we built our house in Jerusalem we had structural engineers in Israel, who was well which, if mentioned, would identify him--so He would come around and talk with us and very good advice and help us. He felt an obligation to check on things so into the house and said, "I want to see I've only got ten minutes, I'm in a hurry, So, we were just talking politely and he said, Ruth said, "My husband helps people with I didn't get excited, I said, "Yes, I He got very interested. I said, "What I do is I sit a person down How many of you have seen me do that? Some of you have. All right. It still works, I want to tell you. If their legs are unequal, the short leg grows I say, "When that happens you know you're So I said, "Would you like to sit down?" He said yes. He stuck his legs out, there was a marked I held them in my hands and his leg grew out. Well, he was astonished. I mean, he was shocked. He stayed half an hour. He told us he could only stay ten minutes. Well, he was back a little while later and a problem in my shoulders. Can you do anything for shoulders?" So I said, "Yes, I have something I can If you'll stand up straight, bring your unequal, your short arm will grow out." I tell you, with Jewish people, they lap up So, we went through this, his arms were quite The short arm grew out and he was really zapped. I mean, he didn't know what to do. He had a short sleeved shirt on because it hairs on my arms, they're all standing up! What's that?" I said, "That's the power of God." I just tell you that story to show you how really interested. We have a dear friend known to many of you, This man later told us, he said, "I believe I don't think he's born again because First of all, it's intellectual. Then it's in the heart and then there's I don't know how I got into that. Oh, I was talking about the clean water. Also, the number of Jewish believers in Israel Fifteen years ago if you met one new Jewish And, all the missionaries would squabble over Now there are some every week. I wouldn't say we have anything like you change taking place in Israel. God is doing it His way. So let's go on. Verse 26: "I will give you a new heart, and put a I will take the heart of stone out of your So that indicates that in the eyes of God I think, for eighteen centuries. A heart of stone cannot respond to the Holy But when God takes out the heart of stone they can respond to the Holy Spirit. That's just precisely, I believe, where God is taking out the heart of stone, replacing That doesn't mean they're converted but And then God goes on in the next verse: "I will put my Spirit within you and cause my judgments and do them." Notice God says once you've got a heart my Holy Spirit within you, and then you'll How many of you know you cannot walk in God's Whether you're Jew or Gentile, it makes It's only when the Holy Spirit is in you At the age of 15 I was confirmed in the Anglican of Oxford. He laid his hands on my head and said the time I need to be a lot better. I had come to the conclusion that I wasn't So I said to myself now I'm confirmed, I'm The problem was it didn't work. The harder I tried to be good the quicker I mean, it was inverse proportion to my efforts. So after a while I said to myself this thing for me. It may work for others. I turned my back on the church and Christianity, Almost exactly ten years later in the middle me with the Holy Spirit. I was so ignorant I didn't know you had And after that it was a delight to walk in It wasn't a struggle, it wasn't an effort. It still demanded consecration but there was You see, whether you're Jew or Gentile, It's only by the supernatural grace and So if you've been trying in your own strength, Turn to God and ask Jesus to fill you with Now we've come to the climax, verse 28: "Then you shall dwell in the land that I Now everybody knows what that land is. There's no possibility of doubting it. And you'll dwell there, you'll not merely "...you shall be my people and I will be That's the end purpose of God. Everything that goes on in the Middle East all being orchestrated by God to one sovereign, I will be your God. Be patient with God, let Him do it His way. Don't criticize Him. Don't have an attitude of unbelief. God spoke to me recently after I'd been He was restoring me. But He said this, it really was so tender me as I've been patient with you." So let's let God do it His way. Let's not stand back and criticize and say, They don't deserve it, that's true. But you don't deserve it, either. I baptized a dear friend of mine, who has a good many years ago now. When he came up out of the water he was just "Why did God choose the Jews?" I said, "Why did God choose you?" And he never asked any more questions! See, God's choice is sovereign, He doesn't He doesn't consult the World Council of He doesn't consult the United Nations. I personally believe God always makes the You've got to decide that for yourself. I've been married twice, my first wife is And each of my marriages has been, generally But, I never chose my own wife. In both occasions God sovereignly showed me I'm not saying you've got to have it the a good judge of character so He didn't trust I'm so grateful for the wife He's given We're probably running out of time, I've going to bother to look. But there are a number of further promises One day I read it through in Hebrew where easily. I discovered that between verses 23 and 30 times. Never once does He give any other reason for See, when you come to grips with Israel you And that's very little taught in the contemporary I define sovereignty this way: God does what and He asks no one's permission. The humanists are very angry with God because I'm glad He didn't. They might not have recommended me! We come to the last two verses of this chapter. We could spend much more time with this. Verses 37-38: "Thus says the Lord God, 'I will also But the Old King James was more vivid. "I will also be inquired of for the house I will increase them with men as with the There's a remarkable secret about prayer. God has made up His mind, He's written it But He says to Israel, "That's what I'm pray." That's the real secret of successful praying, Himself to do. What's the greatest miracle that ever happened We could give various answers but in my opinion Mary was the greatest single miracle that How was it released? She said, "Be it unto me according to thy You cannot ever pray anything greater than And so God says concerning Israel, "I'm place where they'll ask of me, and I won't And there may be many things in your life God is waiting to do them but He won't do And, He won't do what you think He ought Amen. Now I want to complete some statements and Romans 9:27. God says all Israel will be saved. God never said all Britain will be saved or will be saved; but He said all Israel will There again, they're unique, you see? But, the all Israel that will be saved will And so in Romans 9:27 Paul quotes Isaiah and "Though the number of the children of Israel be saved..." The remnant, those whom God has chosen and I don't know how you get on with the doctrine in the Bible, you can't get away from it. You know why you got saved? Because God chose you. If God hadn't chosen you, you couldn't Why will God save all Israel, that remnant? Because He's chosen them. You have to ask yourself do I believe God I do. I'm happy with God's choice. I don't criticize, I don't question, I done it better. See, I don't read the Bible to check on Or on His ethics. But there's many, many people today who the Bible. I'm not interested in that. I think God knows what He's doing. I think He knows what He's talking about. I'm impressed by what He's done in my He's done things a lot better than I would making the choices. So, I'm content with God's choice, I don't I might say sometimes, "God, I don't understand," And then in Romans 11:25-26, which I quoted specifically to believers from Gentile backgrounds. That means people like you and me. "For I do not desire, brethren, that you This revealed secret. Have you ever studied how many times God says There must be half a dozen passages. You know the remarkable thing I've observed "I don't want you to be ignorant about," The situation hasn't changed in nineteen "I do not desire, brethren, that you should in your own opinion, that hardening in part Remember, it's never been total. In all generations there have been Jews who But, as I pointed out the other day, whenever of Israel, there's always a word that follows It's not going to be permanent. "...hardening in part has happened to Israel come in..." So God has an order. I'm not sure that I understand all the implications whole harvest of the Gentiles from every nation turn to me. So, you may not be actually very excited about to proclaim the gospels to other nations, of Israel. Because, Israel will not be saved as a nation--many every Gentile appointed by God for salvation Jesus said the first will be last and the So, Israel were the first and as a nation But, the last are going to be the first. You can't figure that out, it's much too I believe it. So, then Paul says in verse 26: "...so all Israel will be saved..." And he quotes a passage from Isaiah. If you really believe the Bible, I would like humbling. It's only five or six words. All Israel will be saved. Say it again. All Israel will be saved. Once more. All Israel will be saved. If you go out of this camp with that conviction Now I want to speak--don't let me say briefly How do we respond to the revelation of God's My answer is one that's been given several Don't try to change God's mind. Find out what He plans to do and do it with That's the key to success. Every believer who does that ultimately will It doesn't follow that you won't have you align yourself with the will of God and The apostle John said, "He who does the Let's say that again. He who does the will of God abides forever." So, if you do the will of God, you're unshakable, you. You are as sure and as steadfast as the will How do we respond? We align with God's purpose. First of all, we bless and we don't curse That's very important. I've just been speaking in Germany and I was a certain solemnity, but there was an They didn't answer back, they just repented Numbers 23. You remember about Balaam. He was summoned to curse Israel and he was He went off to the assignment with the full Everybody knew if Balaam cursed you, you were But when he got there it all changed. He says in Numbers 23:19-20: "God is not a man that He should lie, nor his mind]. Has He said, and will He not do it? Or has He spoken, and will He not make it [He will.] Behold, I have received a command to bless He has blessed and I cannot reverse it." You cannot reverse God's blessing on Israel And then in the next chapter, speaking to "Blessed is he who blesses you, and cursed So when you curse the Jewish people, God curses But when you bless the Jewish people, God How many of you can remember brother Nabil Can you remember him? A Palestinian Arab born in Haifa, brought I'm not exaggerating, that was his background. But he met the Lord and was baptized in the In fact, he was going bankrupt. He argued with the Lord and the Lord said He repented. He was sorry. He changed his mind and began to bless Israel. And he leads many Jewish people to know their Today he's a multimillionaire. I'm not saying that happens to everybody So why deprive yourself of a blessing? Cultivate the habit of blessing Israel. How for Israel? I want to suggest some very simple things. First of all, in Isaiah 40:1-2. God says: "Comfort, yes, comfort my people, says your Speak comfort to Jerusalem, cry out to her is pardoned; for she has received from the I've analyzed that verse and where it says of the immediate reference to Jerusalem I The Jewish people cannot be comforted apart Their hearts are totally bound up with the So if I'm right, and my people is the Jewish They're not spoken to the Jewish people, somebody, and say, "Comfort my people." Now, they must be spoken to people who accept His word. Who can that be? You and me, that's right. People like us, believing Christians. And so, what does God say? He says, "Comfort my people Israel." God requires us to comfort Israel. I am friendly with a number of fine Jewish believers in Jesus. One of the things they will point out to me criticizing Israel than comforting Israel. We were not called to criticize but we have Will you accept that responsibility? And then a very profound and important thought Joel 3:1-2, the "Behold, in those days and in that time, Jerusalem..." Notice this is again the period of Israel's "...I also will gather all nations [that valley of Jehoshaphat..." And the name Jehoshaphat means "Jehovah It's the valley of God's judgment. "...and I will enter into judgment with What is God going to judge the nations about? One specific issue. "...on account of my people, my heritage nations. They have also divided up my land." God says, "My people, my land. And, I'm going to hold the nations accountable He says, "They've scattered them and they've When He says "my land," what land is He The land of Israel--which He always calls Now, what's the modern word for dividing There's a political phrase that's used So God is going to judge the nations who partitioned I'm sorry to say that Britain will be number Because after World War I, Britain received Israel and to prepare the way for it to become This was a mandate from the League of Nations. And in 1922 the British Foreign Secretary, divided up that land and he allotted 76% to which is now called Jordan. So, of the total land, only 24% was left available Because, no Jews may live in the state of And then in 1947 the United Nations decided Israel less than 12%. God says, "I'm going to judge the nations He says, "it's my land. I'm the one who determines what happens I'm the one who determines to whom it belongs And it is presumption on the part of the nations A lot of people don't realize but in Matthew Jesus refers specifically to this prophecy There's no doubt about it, He says in Matthew "When the Son of man comes in His glory and all the holy angels His glory and all the nations will be gathered That's the scene of Joel 3:1, when He comes You have to bear in mind that in the Bible In our political systems we separate between But in the Bible the king is always the judge. So when He comes as king, one of the first alive on earth at that time. His judgment will be to determine one thing: and which nations will be excluded from His The nations to be admitted are the sheep nations The nations to be excluded are the goat nations What is the principle of division? Exactly what Joel says, the way they've So he says to those who have shown kindness "Inasmuch as you have did it to one of the me." And then He says to those who did not show "Inasmuch as you did not do it to one of do it to me." The sheep nations will go away into everlasting everlasting punishment. Can you see how close that is? Probably the major political issue that dominates About 40% of all United Nations resolutions That's ridiculous when you consider it's that's so small that it could be included It's no larger than Wales. Why is there such an emphasis in the political Well, the answer is it's God's doing because way they have responded to what God is doing I want to share something person which relates Jesus said, "My brethren," and He was After all, according to the flesh they are And remember, even in eternity He's going He never loses that identity. Well, I want to share something that's subjective A few years ago in Jerusalem I woke up about of excitement. I felt really excited. I said to myself what am I excited about? I got the thought, "You're excited because in the excitement of heaven." So I said, "Well, what is all heaven excited I got the answer, "Heaven is excited because So then I said to myself, "Well, what is I got a clear answer, "Because the time so close at hand." Can you imagine what it means to Him that own brothers for nineteen centuries? He has really had very little access to them, But now He's excited. Can you believe that Jesus gets excited? I do. What's He excited about? He's very soon going to be reconciled with And in the story of Joseph in the book of illustrates this. I wonder how many of you have appreciated a beautiful parable of the life of Jesus. Joseph was the chosen son, the son who obeyed special uniform to mark his position in the But his brothers were jealous of him, you They eventually sold him to slave traders As far as they were concerned, he was gone, In Egypt, after going down into prison, he Egyptian empire--in one day. It doesn't take God long when His time comes. He was in complete control of the whole system Then God permitted a famine to come in the Eventually Joseph's brothers had to go down And when they got there, whom did they have Joseph, but he was dressed like an Egyptian, They had no idea he even understood Hebrew, The first time he dealt with them, sent them Then when they were under real pressure, I I have never been able to read the story of without crying. In fact, when Ruth and I read it together read it." And then I think it's the witness of the Genesis 45: "Then Joseph could not restrain himself cried out, 'Make everyone go out from me.' So no one stood with him while Joseph made He wanted a very intimate, personal, family He didn't want anybody outside the family And that's how Jesus is going to deal with He's going to reveal Himself individually, I don't know whether you've talked with If you do, ask them to tell you their testimony, I think you'll find more than 50% of them That was true of Ruth and it's true of most I think, in a way, if I can say it right, Himself to His brothers and sisters. He says, "This is a family matter, I'll Now that's not always true, I've led Jews But I generally expect I'll tell the truth, And then it says in verse 2: "He wept aloud and the Egyptians and the He was so emotional that though he sent them "Then Joseph said to his brothers, 'I Does my father still live?' But his brothers could not answer him, for Then Joseph said to his brothers, 'Please And they came near. He said, 'I am Joseph your brother, whom But now do not therefore be grieved or angry for God sent me before you to preserve life.'" What a gracious spirit, wasn't it? And you see, you may not be familiar with He's been a Gentile. They don't think of Him as Jewish, they All the illustrations in our Bibles and all Some of them will say, "Yes, He's the But Jewish, no." And that's how Joseph appeared to his brothers. He appeared to them as an Egyptian. They didn't even know that he understood But at that moment they suddenly realized I believe that's what's going to be the of Jesus personally to His brothers. And in Zechariah 12:10, the Lord is speaking. This is an amazing prediction because it so crucified. He says: "I will pour on the house of David, and of grace and supplication..." I want you to know you can't pray much that's grace and supplication. Grace means you haven't "Then they will look on me whom they have They will mourn for Him as one mourns for for a firstborn." That will be the direct, personal revelation Israel, collectively. It will issue in a time of mourning. In Jewish custom, if a member of a family call a shabbat, which is for seven days they And really, in a way, this chapter describes And then just one other statement in Zechariah "Someone will say to Him, 'What are these Then He will answer, 'Those with which I And that's so beautiful because the word mean "the people whom I love," it means So Jesus is saying, "I know you really love There's been this separation between us who really love me." What grace. Can you wonder that Jesus is excited? How would you feel if you've been separated they'd written you off and just concluded Somehow God arranged that your brothers and They'd been mean, ugly and spiteful, and really love me. You didn't mean it all." That would mean a lot. I think we need to understand the Lord has He's very real. In a way, He's very human. That's what He is waiting for. So, how will we respond? We'll align ourselves with God's purpose. Especially friends, we will pray. You know what it says in Psalm 122:6: "Pray for the peace of Jerusalem." Then it says: "They shall prosper that love you." There again, why turn down an offer of prosperity? God says, "If you pray the way I want you I want to testify it works. It really happens. Because, you've aligned yourself with God's And finally, the last passage, Isaiah 61:6-7, "I have put watchmen on your wall, O Jerusalem, I establish Jerusalem, and make her the praise The post of watchman is a very honorable post He says, "I have posted watchmen on your me day and night." God's plan for Jerusalem is not going to There are some here, I don't know who they going to ask you to make any open response. God wants you to be one of the watchmen. It's a very, very honorable position, it's It's not an open, public ministry. You won't get much credit for it but you'll What it says here is you who are the Lord's That's an exciting word because it's the Why is the word for a secretary used? What's a secretary's business? It's to keep her boss' calendar and to Say, "Remember, the plant manager is coming Thursday is your wife's birthday, remember So, what does a secretary do? She knows her boss' calendar and reminds And as a watchman on the walls of Jerusalem, in the Bible. You have to remind Him of it day and night, you are regathering Israel, you will keep will blossom like the rose." That's a tremendously honorable position I want to suggest to all of you, be open if "I want you to take your place on the walls But whether He does that or not, let's make with God's purpose for Israel in this set I believe it would be good if we ended by praying. "Lord Jesus the Messiah, the Son of God, We love you. We want to please you. We submit to you as a group of your people We believe, Lord, that you have laid on the for the restoration of Israel. We pray for that. We pray for a supernatural, sovereign visitation the Spirit of grace and of supplication, and Reveal yourself. Lord, bless Israel not because they deserve And if there's anything that we can do in to the Jewish people, Lord, guide us, show If there are those there this evening whom of Jerusalem, Lord, do it sovereignly by your We do pray as Paul told us to pray, for the In the name of Jesus, Yeshim Yeshua Meshiach,