- Hey guys, this is Toby Mathis. Welcome to &quot;Tax Tuesday&quot;. Jeff, welcome. - I didn't do it right. This is Tax Tuesday. My name's Toby. - I'm Jeff Webb. - Yeah. See, that's better. Take three. No, I'm just kidding. (Jeff chuckles) Hey, we're going to be going over a whole bunch of fun stuff today. Lots of tax. Lot's going on in the But there's some tax issues coming up. I had somebody ask me like, &quot;What about this corporate minimum tax?&quot; Pss, it's only for corporations of over a billion dollars. When I mean booking, it means which means, &quot;Doesn't matter we're going to tax you on it.&quot; So if you make a billion dollars, (hums) All right, what do we got? Yeah, you could ask your questions. Some people are already doing it. You can go to the chat. You can say, &quot;Hey.&quot; Hey, Sherry. I see you there. And some folks from Raleigh. Oh, a billion. Yeah, so let me know where you're from. We'll call out your city and state, if I can see it fast enough. Sometimes they fly through. Cancun. Oh my gosh. I'll be in Clairemont, San Morrisville, North Carolina, Northern Virginia, Greensboro. Oh my God, now they're going too fast. Miami, Montana, Morgan Hill, New Jersey, Rio Verde, Pennsylvania, Yeah, and at this point they're There's El Paso, Huntington Beach, Dallas, California, the Communist Cheryl, not all communist at Washington. Tampa, Lakeland, Arizona, Santa Clara, Lawrenceville, Georgia, Boca We've got people from all over the place. And we would have Hawaii Chicago, and oh, the pro surf Where? Must be-- - [Patty] Huntington Beach. - Huntington Beach. Nice. Medford, Oregon. So that was Patty. Of course, we have a whole including Patty, Troy, probably more. I'm horrible. I can't see them all. Hey, wait, now I might Ian, Paio, Christos, Elliot, Dutch. Oh my gosh, we got a lot So if you have questions, and you can post a question. If you have comments, put it in the chat. And a comment is, &quot;Oh Or if I ask a question what do you think of this? What do you think the answer Otherwise, use the Q&amp;A for the accountants and the attorneys. They'll do their very best to get through. If you have really specific things to you, we will invite you to that's whopping $35 a month, and you can ask your questions away. People say, &quot;Why do you do that? You should be charging 400 bucks an hour like everybody else.&quot; Sure, it stinks. We don't want to do that to you. I didn't like it when people did it to me, so we're not going to do it to you. There we go. We used the golden rule. What else we got? You can always ask You go to taxtuesday@andersonadvisors. We get about 500 a week. It is pretty insane. And you can go through there. And then we pick the questions to go over out of those questions. And my picking process is Just make sure there's nothing All right, so here we go. &quot;What are the tax implications and, by the way, I'm going to then we will go through 'em. Jeff just wants to answer them all. I'll be like, &quot;Jeff, wait. Oh, oh, wait.&quot; So we'll go through it and tell and then we'll go through and answer 'em. And if you have comments on it, All right, &quot;What are the tax and using the proceeds to We'll answer that. Good question. &quot;I formed a business in I look forward to flipping houses after I save enough from wholesaling. I have yet to get an EIN because I'm not sure Please advise for a Thank you and I'm grateful (tongue clicks) We'll go through that. &quot;We are partnering with a friend We will buy the property and our friend will manage Sure they will. I'm just teasing. &quot;Does this qualify us as Professional something, &quot;What's the best way to avoid taxes when getting income from forex trading?&quot; (exclaims) Forex trading. &quot;Can I get hard money loan, a hard money loan with no collateral?&quot; &quot;I bought a real estate and then I started my LLC in May of 2022. Can I write-off the cost of the on my taxes?&quot; I'll go into that one, too. The answers, you will see, are never quite as - Correct. So that's another great example. So we'll get into it. &quot;My investment style is to strictly invest in dividend-yielding stocks, with the exception of Good for you. That's I bet you you're laughing &quot;I always roll the dividends I never sell anything.&quot; In other words, they're doing or they're just buying more &quot;So my question is this: Must Jeff, we will have to answer that one. That's the question of Mm, maybe, right? Okay, &quot;A syndication investment Because the schedule some capital was held back, can't be used to offset the capital gains. Is he correct?&quot; So we'll answer that one. &quot;I have heard you speak Can you tell us the difference and an irrevocable complex trust? I know you have said you don't own anything so you can't get sued?&quot; Yeah, we'll go over through that too. And, &quot;I have a nonprofit that I often fund with Is there any way that I on my taxes?&quot; Yeah, we'll go through all these. Really good questions today. Jeff, what do you think so far? - I think they're good questions, yeah. - I think they're, yep, I think we're going You ready? We're going to dive in. But before we do, please go to our YouTube In fact, do more than just subscribe. Go and subscribe, look at that go and subscribe and click the little bell and that way when we put out Don't just go to mine, He's really smart and he does more of the I tend to stick around the But if you go there, we'll love you. And you'll see, by the way, if nowadays I'm going to You'll see pictures of my cats. I'm going to start giving away All right, there's my YouTube channel. There we go. Hey, Toby. Hey, nice to see you. And you can also live stream Every other week we do the Tax Tuesday on the YouTube site as We go in there and spend some time, about two or three videos a week. And you'll see, we even Most of 'em in the 20, 30-minute range. Some of 'em get a little but the regular videos usually 30 minutes. 30 minutes or less and You ready? - Let's go. - &quot;What are the tax and using the proceeds to Jeff. - That depends. If I sell some stock and then go out and buy some real estate, one actually has nothing except in one circumstance is if you buy real estate in So if I have any, if I sell my and take those proceeds in a qualified opportunity zone. I can defer my gains for a time. - Yeah. So you're looking at the sale of stock being a capital asset investing So we don't really care and buying more stock, or selling stock and buying real estate, or selling stock and buying crypto. Those are all capital assets Crypto, we don't know what We'll call that a currency, but it's taxed as a capital asset. So you sell your stock, it's either going to be 'cause it's capital, and you Jeff is 100% correct. The only way to defer is if it's real estate, you If it's stocks, you can do and it's only going to be like I think it's going to So it'll be recognized in 2026. And that's yay. You could hold off some of it, but then you have to jump through the qualified opportunity zone hoops. Maybe it's a good deal. Maybe you have some Opportunities, you sell your stock. Could we offset some of Let's say the stock was at a loss and you have some real could you sell the real - Yeah, you could sell the real estate or actually any other kind of asset that you could get a capital Vice versa. If you had, for selling stock at a game and you have some loss leaders from the market, you could sell that. I don't think you're going at a loss right now, but there may be other - Hang on to your real estate. Your stocks, hang on to your stocks. Frankly, you shouldn't be Nobody times the market. Keep buying. But beyond that, if you you could sell it and buy it back and offset the sale of your stock. So like, this is weird. If I sell stock, you have something called the wash-sale loss rule that restricts us for within 30 days. 30 days of the sell, before or after. So it's like a 60-day stretch. But regardless, I can't buy it back. I can't create a loss. That does not exist with So if I sell stock and I want and I'm sitting on some Bitcoin that's gone down a little &quot;You know what, I'm going to offset that.&quot; - So I bought Bitcoin at 69,000. It's now trading at 23, maybe a third of what I bought it for, but I know it's going to come back, Toby. - I could sell it, take that loss, offset my selling of stocks, - And be right back in the - You got it, yeah. You have your transaction costs, you could avoid it, or you could do it. &quot;When do you do the 1031 exchange in order to avoid taxes against Anytime you sell, Cece. As long as it's an investment property, even if you held it for six months. As long as you follow you could exchange real estate So I could sell a piece of property and buy 10 pieces of property. I could buy one piece of property. I could buy land, I could I could buy a condo, I As long as it's real estate, I can swap it as long as it's equal or greater value. &quot;So do I do it prior to No, you would actually, you have to have a 1031 exchange qualified intermediary when you sell to make sure that you do Or you do a reverse exchange you buy a property with then you sell the previous property. That's called a reverse exchange. You could do that, too. If you have questions on that, Cece, either reach out to us or grab because yeah, you can avoid millions and millions of dollars of taxes All right, hopefully we beat this tax implication selling stock and using the proceeds to I'm going to do one more, which is, &quot;Hey, I buy real estate and Can I use that to offset my stock sale?&quot; - Well, yeah, you can because losses of other type of income can offset capital gains. It's just that capital losses can offset a lot of different things. - Real estate losses? - Well, that's assuming to take those deductions. So cost segregations and depreciation. - If I cost, say, real estate I cannot use it against my capital gain. - Correct. I'm an active participant or real estate professional or that real estate doesn't it's an Airbnb or Vrbo, in which case then it's As long as I maturely participate, then I could actually use it But I never would, because capital gains, depending on, if it's long-term, I would never want to use just because it's taxed at the capital gains, But if it's short-term, Anyway, you see how there's I wish it was just straightforward, but actually I don't know if I do. I don't think we would be sitting here if it was straightforward. I think I'd be probably I don't know what I'd be doing. Buying more real estate. All right, &quot;I formed a business I look forward to flipping houses after I save enough from wholesaling.&quot; I'm going to give you the eyeball, right? &quot;I have yet to get an EIN because I'm not sure Please advise for a Thank you and I'm grateful Jeff Rowe - Corporation. That's all I got. - Yeah, if you are flipping what type of corporation for a young person? - What type of corporation, are - S versus C. - Oh, definitely C. - Definitely C, start-off? - Yeah, if I'm doing wholesaling I'm going to do a C corporation. - Yeah, so for those of you guys who don't know what flipping flipping is I buy a house to sell it and it's not going to be it's going to be considered inventory. No different than if I had a grocery store and I bought Cheerios and stock the shelf or if I had a car lot and and I sold Corvettes. I don't get to write and it's a cost to get sold, and it's subject to self-employment tax. Wholesaling is I put and I sign them or I sell or I buy a house really quickly Once again I'm like a dealer In any of those, it's no It's active, ordinary income. Now, Jeff Rowe is going to a C corp more than likely because like we'll have lots of expenses. All of your, this guy, this little cell phone here, 100%. I have a corporation. I don't have to figure out versus business. If the business gets a benefit This computer, writes it off 100%. You're a college student. I'm sure you have lots of things that you can reimburse. If it starts making too much money, now we might want to consider if you're going to use that cash But otherwise, you still get a benefit. Some people don't realize this. You can get a benefit even with a C corp if you're paying it out all on salary. There's still some benefits there, because of the way the versus a sole proprietor. Sole proprietor, in my book, the wrong thing to be just as of today, about 400 to 1,600% higher than its corporation counterpart. And you lose those audits if you're a sole proprietor. So I don't want to I would prefer to just not be molested and I can ride off so then I'm not too worried about it. And even if you make a here's a hint. If I don't want to pay it to myself, I might start loaning it on projects. So when you do your first flip, you could actually do you might set up a separate LLC just for that particular flip, depending on the value of it. But from a tax standpoint, and it's going to be protecting you, liability and giving you - So I agree with you about What about the wholesaling? - Mm, wholesaling I'm I would do that probably If I'm doing a lot of wholesaling and I'm concerned if I'm and I'm going to do a double close, I might use a separate entity for that. If I'm worried about getting for something I'm doing, But I've only seen that happen once. And it was a chain of title where they were about the 10th Again, as long as you have good insurance, you'll be able to take that out. And by good insurance, I you're probably not caring much, but make sure you have personal insurance and make sure that you have an in the event that you don't or renters policy doesn't cover you. But I'm not too worried. You don't have anything when you're getting started. I'm not too worried about lawsuits. A lawsuit nowadays four years $250,000, probably if you take it to trial, and you can make them Usually with the lawsuit and the emotional toll and to have to deal with it. But as long as we're isolating our target, so their win, just so you know, I say that at somebody, and they're like, you're wholesaling, you're even flippin', and they're like, &quot;Toby, but there's a whole That thing gets lightning sued. It's not overnight. You're going to keep You're going to pay yourself a salary. And guess what you're going to quit doing. You're going to quit buying any more deals in that particular entity. And it's going to be and there's going to be All we're trying to do so that they can't follow you All right, fun one. All right, here's an interesting one. &quot;We are partnering with a so we, I should say current friend, &quot;to run an Airbnb business.&quot; No. &quot;We will buy the property and our friend will manage Does this qualify us as Jeff. - Actually it does the If you are not managing that your partner's actually going to have more material participation than you do. The only way to defeat that is if you both have more and I don't know how you do that if you're not managing - Yeah, so you buy a property, like you're buying the property So you're the owner, like this is where I Why would you give somebody if you're the one buying it? So let's just say, all right, I set up, we throw everything into I have a lot more basis, I have this real estate and You would be what's in that enterprise. It's no different than I love the pizza shop. Jeff works the pizza shop, I bought the oven. I'm passive, he's active. I still can't take that deduction against my ordinary W-2 Like, it's not going to help me. And no, it does not qualify Professional real estate status is on rental properties only, Airbnb. If it's a typical Airbnb property, it's four days or less on average, they're about, three days That is not a rental activity That is a regular business, just like I'm a running a pizza shop. Your friends, if they're managing it, they would be the material participant, they would get the deduction that would flow through under their return and offset their W-2. You would not. Let's do another one. If you were able to qualify because of all your and it's hard to qualify, but let's say one spouse or was in construction or did flips or whatever wholesale and they qualified for 750 hours, it's what they did most of their time and then you both combine, materially participated what I would be doing putting it in its own LLC, you own it 100% and then I might lease it to the Airbnb that you own with your friend. That's more than likely what I'd be doing under these circumstances. I may even do that regardless. Like, say, &quot;Hey, even if somehow as a material participant and I would probably side with the,&quot; let's keep the real There's no reason to do it. Like, you guys could split but I want to make sure that that house always remains your house. - I want to go back to the whole partnering with a friend thing. I kind of feel like when I we're not talking of partnership. Either I own the business and I'm either hiring him as an employee or a 1099 contractor or we set him up in his own and have him be a third party and not actually own a piece of that. - Yeah, that's what I was just thinking. I would have the real estate separate. I might lease it. I might set up a corporation And when I say do it together, meaning the Airbnb &quot;Hey, I own the rental And I could even agree, like Jeff and I, let's say that I owned a property. I set up a business and I and I say, &quot;Jeff, only pay lease if the lease is capped We could do something like that and then I could pay it, great. And then I could agree to, Or if it's an S corp, you get the salary 'cause you're the only one working. Everything else comes to And I can offset it with depreciation. So how much tax would I be paying on that? Zero, right? Yeah, anyway, I could do it that way. And that way also Jeff isn't I'd be very mad at that. Somebody says, &quot;Can I as an Airbnb? And will it qualify as a short-term rental and its benefits to Imagine if it's, you can't. And let me just give unless you want to go over. - No, go ahead. - So if it's 14 days or less, you don't have to recognize the income and you could, you wouldn't even, I wouldn't even depreciate Or would you-- - Yeah, if it's over 14 days, then I'm going to take and I'm going to depreciate that portion. So if it's the house, then then I would depreciate 25% would be depreciated, And if I am the one managing that rental, yes, I could offset my W-2 I don't know how much it would be, it depends on your situation, but yeah. People house hack is what we call that. And they do it all the time. And some people just do it for 14 days 'cause they don't have to pay tax on it and then they don't depreciate and they don't have to when they sell the property. You might have some under those circumstances But you could actually 1031 exchange that. You could actually 1031 exchange just that portion of the home. So you could still use your 121 exclusion. Weird stuff. All right, I think we've Unless you have anything else. - No. - All right. - Poor horse is dead. - Poor horse. &quot;What's the best way to avoid taxes when getting income from forex trading?&quot; - IRS is actually very I don't know why they've There's one tool called the 988 election. The 988 election, all When you do forex trading, which says basically no matter it's 60% gets treated as I got those, right? - Yep. The 988 election allows you into ordinary gains. So why would I want to do that? It doesn't really make sense. What makes sense if you're not very good at this forex trading - Yeah, usually you don't And you can create it, the way that you create it typically is to have a structure for and partially owned by So you might have a partnership owning that forex account, 80-20. 20% to a corp. The 20% goes to the corp automatically and the corp would use that And Jeff's absolutely right. You'd have the 1256, the 60-40 split on anything that's is what it's going to boil down to. I don't think it's on all. And I think it defaults. I thought the default Futures contracts are default 1256, right? - Yes. I wasn't sure about that, I do know that you can but you got to do a private letter ruling. - I think you can do it You can actually state. Unless you're going to So I think that it's, but I believe that it's, 988, oh no, you said it was I think it's the rule and if you're designating a futures, something that could happen in the future, then I could treat it as a 1256. Otherwise, they want, currency trading's going I think it's always ordinary income. The only one that's not And usually that's commodities. And then if you're doing then you can elect to But it gets muddy no matter what. So here's the rule. If you're doing forex trading, make sure you have an And then by all means, if which is about 80% of forex - It's hard to beat the computers. - It is really hard to beat the computers. It's tough. And anybody that's actively I know there's those of you but I'm just saying and the studies have shown this too, you have about 4% success rate. It's hard to time the markets. I'm going to get some hate mail. A bunch of people are &quot;You just told me I'll never make money.&quot; No, I'm just saying that you you better have really good mentors, you better have people while you're doing it, trade as a group, and be smart about it. If you're gambling, And it's always big. La-la-la-la-la, let's see. &quot;Can I get a hard money - Maybe. - We get 'em all the time actually. - This is going to depend So hard money loan is money not from a bank. And if they want collateral, they're going to ask for collateral. - Yeah, you know what, this Whenever you have lending, cash, collateral, or credibility. So if you have cash, you can always take a I think I may have talked where I used to buy a CD. Anytime I'd open up a business, I'd buy a CD at that institution. I'd use it as collateral And then eventually they wouldn't And I would just, and now that has an open line of credit and then over the years it would expand. So even now, like we have businesses that have large lines of credit, we just don't use it that often, right? So that's the cash. Collateral is like if I'm something where there's So the home loan's the obvious one. &quot;Hey, I'll loan you money, but I'm going to take a mortgage And then you have the credibility, where it's just your credit score. And we've all been young people and young people have no credibility. So even when they do a collateral loan, they may say, &quot;I got a car,&quot; they may still say, &quot;We want So when you're doing a hard what you're really doing And yes, there's lots of people that would give you a personal loan. There's credit cards, that'll There's people that will just off your signature that's all it is. Hard money usually says maybe non-bank, but you could Speaking of collateral, you can also get loans with collateral. And I was just talking, not talking, but I was emailing back and forth to somebody at Morgan Stanley. And they still have loans below 2% on their security back lines of credit. Again, the collateral is the stock. They will loan you now because they, what do you think's going to They're looking at it goin', &quot;This is the worst start There's one direction Inflation's going nuts, Even if we went in a recession, &quot;Hey, you know what, you're They'll give you a security usually up to 70% at even though mortgages are up. So everybody goes, &quot;Mortgages but yeah, there's still - But the fed just raised their rates by three quarter percent. Since mortgage rates have dropped. - 'Cause they're not tied to each other. - Well, I know they're not, but it just, it still doesn't make sense 'cause-- - Here's a question. Here's a question. &quot;What are the mortgage rates tied to? What do they follow?&quot; Anybody out there know on chat? &quot;What are the mortgage rates tied to? Is it the fed or is it something else?&quot; Let's see, bonds. Somebody says bond. It's the 10-year Treasury. And we invert it. In other words, they'll give for the bond for a shorter period of time than they'll give you for the long period, which tells you like, &quot;Ah.&quot; So yeah, 10-year Treasury. So what's going on is the 10-year Treasury's been going down. The short-term treasury's been going up, that's called inversion, which So the 10 and 2. So the 10-year Treasury has The 10-year Treasury is slightly It's like within a few, but it's really close, And then they'll start screaming, &quot;We're in a recession again.&quot; Actually they're already I just tried not to listen to 'em. I go, &quot;Da-da-da-da-da-da-da.&quot; But the Treasury, so the which is again, why has been shooting up and 10-year been in the garbage all year? In fact, this is the first year, I think, where we had the first six months where bonds were down Usually it's one or the other. But it's a funky time, if you If you have an economist, you just walk up to 'em And then they'll be like, &quot;Yes.&quot; And you go, &quot;Oh, the 10 and 3 inverted?&quot; And then they'll go, &quot;No, The 10 and 2.&quot; Just (mumbles). All right, sorry. Keep me in the corner. All right (laughs), &quot;I bought a real estate and then started my LLC in May of 2022. Can I write-off the cost of the course as a business expense on my taxes?&quot; - That depends. It's going to depend primarily If it's being taxed as a you can use those real estate costs. Have your C corp reimburse you for 'em and they would be startup - Is there a cap on that? - There is not a cap exactly. The it's kind of capped in the first year. So if I paid $5,000 for my course, I'm going to be able to deduct - Yeah, so that's a startup expense. So that's option number one. What's option number two? - You could deduct it as the real estate course is being used. That is if I paid for it in April 2022, but I'm actually not - What if you're already - Oh, if you're already I assume not in this case. But if you're already a or a real estate agent even? - Anything. I could write it off. If I'm a-- - If this meets your needs then yeah, you could - I would think you even if I'm an investor. 'Cause we had the Woodward case, that was actually a guy that and he didn't bother to listen to us, listened to his accountant and got tased, ended up being a tax case. So not that we took glee in that, but it was kind of weird Always cover your katush, right? And it was kind of funny. But the guy was, had not and took a course and &quot;You could write it off.&quot; Hey, if you haven't, The reason that Jeff is because by setting up There's only one reason you're setting up a for-profit corporation. Whereas you and I, we, they look at our, &quot;What are you doing? Do you have rental,&quot; or, &quot;Do And so if you're a flipper, you could definitely write it off if you were already engaged in it in your individual name or in an LLC. If you're an investor, you might have a little harder road to hoe because it may not be necessary expense that you can use. If it's a C or an S corp, Or an LLC tax is a C or an S, then we can definitely write it off. Worst case scenario: We're Best case scenario: You already and it's literally just - One thing I don't like about and it may be a legitimate expense, I've been flipping for a couple years, but if I have this giant education expense and I'm putting on my schedule but it may be waving a flag - Did I mention that sole 95% of the time? - I've heard that. - Yeah, they get absolutely rooked. So yeah, you don't want especially if you're on the audit. They just don't do well. Your stats are not in your favor. Speaking of being in your favor, if you want to put some come to a Tax and Asset Protection Event. They're absolutely free. Doing about twice a month. They're always a little bit different, but we have one coming up on August 13th. You could certainly register. Again, it's well worth your time. Has anybody been to the Tax And what would you tell Let's see. Somebody says, &quot;They are less sophisticated Yeah, a little bit. You know who they love to audit? They love to audit the people making the, taking the earning income tax credit. Benny says, &quot;I've been a couple times. I highly recommend it.&quot; Agnes says, &quot;Yes, go several times.&quot; &quot;I go to the Tax and Somebody's just really &quot;You always learn enough to &quot;Tax events are incredible. Thank you, thank you, So I won't keep reading them. - That's why you need to go more than once because that headache gets less and less the more often you go. - This is good. Yeah, a lot of people I highly recommend the Time well spent. I've been a couple times and I It's &quot;One Day Saturday&quot;. All right, let's keep going. You guys can always come to events. We do a ton. You can go to YouTube and come here, like there's never a bad Somebody says, &quot;What do you They're great. Absolutely great. You'll probably end up depending on where you go. - I was going to say, do you want - Yeah, some people buy 'em just 'cause they want the interest. But to me, it's like just depends on where you're at. Somebody says, &quot;Any plans We're talking about doing one in December. Talking about it. Every time I see big in-person events, I'm always thinking like and no matter what and say that they got sick from something. But we'll probably start doing 'em again. It's fun to talk behind the camera, but it's more fun to see Plus, you can goof off together. - I think you skipped one. - Oh, did I skip one? All right, yeah, all right. &quot;My investment style is to strictly invest in dividend-yielding stocks, with the exception of I'm good with that, by the way. I would not be investing in growth stocks. Never been a big fan of it, but now I'm like less of a fan of it because that is gambling. I like companies that and pay it to their shareholders. If I'm going to invest in I don't want to give an interest free loan, right? &quot;I always roll the dividends I never sell anything. So my question is this: Must Jeff. - So my investment strategy at growth stocks that have No, I'm just kidding. - I hope that someday Then when it goes up, you're and then they take a big chunk of it. - So yes, well, let's put it this way. The dividends that you received during the year that you're dividend reinvestment plan, So I have $100 stock, I I have to report that $1 dividend, but that gives me a dollar Now, whether or not you're on those dividends is where you fall in the income brackets. - Dividends are taxed as? - Corporate dividends are taxed - Yep. In case you didn't get that, they're going to be taxed depending on how much money you make. So if I'm a typical person, let's say that I'm an average individual, according to the Census Bureau, I'm a couple and I make $92,000 a year, how much would I pay on my dividends? - You'd pay 10%. 'Cause I think they're 80 some thousand, but I That was a trick question. I love it. I just sucker - He is correct. - It is. So I take my standard deduction. I'd probably pay zero on it. But yeah, you're right. It's 88,000, married filing jointly. Anything below that is zero So if you have dividends, you You might be thinking but it depends on where you're at. Otherwise, between which is yay. Still great. Or if you don't want to guess what you do. You invest through your or some account where it's tax deferred or tax free in the case of Roth. And then you just let it, but DRIP is actually, even they still make you pay tax on it. But it's preferential tax treatment. - Nice thing I like about the DRIP too is it's a form of, what do they call that, where your average-- - Oh, your dollar cost averaging. - Dollar cost averaging - Which, by the way, there's You're better off investing and continuing to consistently invest than trying to time the market over and over and over again. In fact, if they show you that if you had timed the versus if you just continually and going up, you're actually better off just to continuously invest. So I know some of you guys are like, &quot;No, it's not the case who sold me option trading course. That's not the case.&quot; Yeah, it is. Here, probably the best is a guy named Warren Buffett, right? And the whole thing about Warren Buffett is he's a really great you pretty much have 100%, you have about 100% and having great success, like, in being, completely getting all your It's like 100% versus everything else where you have a real chance of loss. So it's one of those few &quot;About 100% certainty if and you do this.&quot; I don't care whether 50% up historically, you are going to be making money, period, on your investment. Like, not just your money back, but you're actually making returns. And there's nothing else Oh, it's the Pelosis. You're just mean. Lance is being mean. He's picking on our Speaker who are excellent traders. But the truth is, Lance, If a bunch of Republicans beat 'em, they just don't talk about it. Which is like, let's just be honest, it's just freakish that In fact, up until, what year was it? I think it was about 15 years ago that they stopped them from It used to be legal when It was legal for Congress Yep, somebody says, &quot;You are correct. I am an Unusual Whales member, too. They are doing great research over there.&quot; See, you have to be a whale. You have to be an ape and If you don't know what those are, don't know how to help you. All right, let's keep going on. Oh, by the way, if you're doing this, this is one thing, whoever you want to add some Start selling out of the money those stocks and you'll &quot;My wife holds all stocks and had about $3,000 paid to I earned 200K, but she does not. Should we file married, but separate?&quot; That's interesting. I'm sorry, somebody &quot;My wife holds all the so she made about 3,000 in and they would be at, But my guess is that you're filing jointly, but you calculate that, Randy. - Yeah, married filing - Rarely. - Yeah, rarely, rarely, rarely. - Works out better. - I sat there and said that to one person. The only reason I pause &quot;I think I'm better off doing it one way.&quot; And I was like, &quot;There's no way.&quot; And then I went and &quot;Yeah, actually you are. You're counting smart. I'm an idiot.&quot; So it's the rule that It's the three rules actually If you guys don't know these, this is the one thing where you is to calculate, calculate, calculate. - Wasn't sure what the third one was. - Those are the third rules, yeah. Rule number three is look at number one. Yeah, do your calculations and when we pontificate. Get your pencil out and All right, &quot;A syndication Because the schedule some capital was held back, can't be used to offset capital gains. Is he correct?&quot; - I'm going to disagree with your CPA. And here's why. Normally, when you get a well-prepare K-1, it gives you a list of activities. The syndication could and each of those The LLC, the syndication even though it could be an activity because of its ordinary but probably not. So once you sold your activity, which was that piece of real estate, that should have freed up all the losses for that piece of real estate. - 100%. With one exception. - You got the exception. - What's the exception? - If you're a real estate professional that has made an aggregation election and you have other properties it does not free up that loss. - But you took the loss already. - Yeah, you've been taking the loss-- - Unless you already had the loss and then made a real estate which is why we look at before we do that. But you're absolutely right. Yeah, the final return means nothing. What they care about is And the liquidation event did the syndication liquidate its assets? So if it has three properties and the other two is still holding, then that's not substantially If it sells two, I think you're closer to depending on the value. If it sells three, it's definitely done a And then whether or not is immaterial. The other option is you in the syndication, then you would be able - Now, here's somethin' I'm holding this real estate I sold it at a gain. That capital gain from That passive income, passive capital gain can offset any passive losses So there's more than - So in other words, your CPA's wrong. I'm just going to have fun. No, there might be one of So, like, we don't know But my guess is if they're thinking that that has to be a final return, there's no such thing that I've ever seen. - From what you've said, we believe your CPA may be incorrect. - Yeah, you're so nice. Your CPA may be incorrect. No, your CPA, yeah, we're not perfect. I'm not a CPA. I'm just a lawyer. CPAs are, you're a CPA, you're perfect, but most CPAs were just human beings. So somebody says, &quot;What's the second one?&quot; Oh, the second one of the three rules? It's calculate, John. It's calculate, calculate, calculate. We have to calculate. What's the third one? - To calculate? I can't remember. I think the third one was What was first one? - Yeah, I forget. All right, &quot;I have heard you Can you tell us the difference and an irrevocable complex trust.&quot; The spelling obviously. &quot;I know you have said you don't use anything but wouldn't you, or that you don't own anything, but wouldn't you want to, so you can't get sued?&quot; Sol let me make sure I understand this. &quot;I know you said that you don't own anything so you can't get sued?&quot; All right, Jeff, what do you think? We'll break this into two pieces. So Jeff's the first part. - The revocable trust is living trust, you can call It really doesn't mean You can place assets but you can also take the assets out. So they're never permanently - There are going to be So revocable trust, there's even if it's an irrevocable trust, that has the ability to change and swap out beneficiaries They're still going to say which means the trust doesn't it's going to go to the grantor. - Yeah, that's a great point. So my million dollars of stock that I put in my living trust, that's still being taxed to me. The dividends or-- - In your living trust, your personal property trust We could also set up a or Wyoming or South Dakota whatever you want to call And if you have the right to switch and change the beneficiary, It's called an intentionally It's still an irrevocable trust, but it is defective for tax purposes, meaning that it's ignored. We do that, too a lot for asset protection. So the irrevocable nature of it, if we create an irrevocable, is what's the asset protection tool. For tax purposes, there's Can you switch it? Can you swap things out? Can you take a loan against it? That would destroy, whether there's another term called simple trust, which we'll get it into a second. So the difference and an irrevocable complex trust is this. A revocable trust is and it can be changed. An irrevocable trust means and it pays its own tax and you could distribute principal. You're not required to, but you can. A simple, irrevocable simple And by the way, the trust You're at 37% when you make $13,000. Horrific. Simple trust means you on an annual basis, but you So if I create a irrevocable simple trust, I'm putting money in it, I'm and it's kicking off the income. I have all these tax and they start saying, &quot;We're going to set up a tax-free trust, and here's what we're going to do. We're going to take the dividends and I don't have to pay tax on. We're going to take that, And what they're doing is and they don't understand the difference between a simple and a complex trust and they draft a complex trust that these rules do not apply to. And a simple trust. Let's say you own stock and every year you're but your trustee says, &quot;You know what, we're getting a one-time distribution, an extraordinary dividend It's kicking me out Warner shares and I don't want to pay tax on that, I could apply that to the corpus.&quot; In that particular case, I without distributing it. Can't play that game which what these bozos And then I'm always like having that, &quot;No, you can't run and never pay tax on it.&quot; &quot;But he told me you can.&quot; Yeah, they're completely wrong. But here's what it is. The difference between the revocable trust is it goes down to you And an irrevocable complex if there's any income left it's taxed at the corporate rate. If it's distributed to so it could be long-term capital gain, short-term capital gain, And then an irrevocable, if and it's well-drafted, from creditors of yours because If you're in control of and more than likely it's and then you better have good statutes like Nevada to protect it. Anyway, sorry, I just went-- - No, one other thing I wanted to bring up in the difference and irrevocable trust is let's say I put, my cost and my assets about 100,000, fair market value of and I put that into my revocable trust, I die, my beneficiaries they get the $500,000 Whereas in the irrevocable trust if I put that same $100,000, my cost, and it's worth $500,000, because it's considered - The trust basis. - The trust basis. - But that would only be if it's not an intentionally - Correct. No, absolutely, 100%. That's why you don't I don't do. Me, personally, I could count on two hands how many complex trusts I've put together. More than likely, it's going to 'cause I want to have the I do the complex if it's a then that's a different animal completely. But we're not trying to get any, at the time it's revocable and then it becomes and everything's already stepped up. - Yeah, complex trust what's going out to the beneficiaries or whoever's the trustee. Whereas, a simple trust it makes money, it gets passed onto the beneficiaries and they deal with the taxes. - Somebody said, &quot;I did a trust because I thought it would take They can, they can actually but it might flow onto your return. And then the only question is whether somebody could see that. Somebody says, &quot;CPA says you to offset capital gains. He did not clarify what Wouldn't passive losses offset but not portfolio capital gains and not capital gains - Well, if this is one we once the activity is sold, the - Yeah, I don't know. I don't really see passive capital gains. I know you mentioned it, but I've never-- - Well, it's anytime you for capital gain, it can offset - Any other passive losses, that gain. So those passive losses would be used against that passive gain? - Again, I always think in my and I always think of it, but I guess if you have gain from that, then the other passive - Yeah, when you talk about most people go, &quot;What?&quot; - Yeah, so it's always whether and you have capital gain then you could offset it So it's always looking at, again, you're looking at the syndication, I'm a passive investor, I get rid of that. Then if you have any rolling around out there, they Sounds like that's what you're saying. Okay. I'm not a 100% on that, to be honest. I got to take, I want to dig into that, but you probably looked at it before. So it'll be good for something 'Cause I keep thinking about somebody liquidating their syndication and then buying another depreciating it to Could they do that? - In the same year. - Yeah, I'm a doctor. I invest in the syndication. That syndication eventually liquidates and I have all these capital gains and then I go and I, could I buy another piece of real estate or another syndication let's say they accelerate the could I use that depreciation 'cause it's passive to from the previous syndication? - Yes, if it's all done in the same year. - If it's all done in the same That'd be pretty powerful. - You can check me on this. - I got to look at it. It's not clicking a bell with me, but that doesn't mean it's not true. But if you're looking at that would actually benefit from that when they're looking at the That would be huge for 'em. 'Cause I know that a lot of times we're looking at other A lot of times it's Airbnbs So this might add another &quot;I have a non-profit mentoring business that I often fund with Is there a way that I or write this money off on my taxes?&quot; - Here's how I would do it. I would let the non-profit Let's say they need to go I give 'em the cash, And every time you give them cash, they should give you a receipt. Now, I think we're kind of talking about like in kind contributions yeah, that will work. I'm just not real crazy about it because it's harder to document. It's harder to prove. - What I would say is I think is anytime you put money it's going to be a charitable donation so long as you document it. So what I would be doing is documenting. And then the organization Now, because you donated it, the question is whether is whether you exceed And so we're going to look at everything from your medical expenses to, what else we got, mortgage interest and then we look at your donation. So if you are above then you would get to write it off. Otherwise, you wouldn't. And again, depending on what I might suggest for you if you're in the it wouldn't case, is that you market as an expense as an employee. And reimburse yourself if ever the nonprofit I mean, it sounds like and there's revenue coming if you're just giving away that service, then you may not get that deduction, if it's not in excess of So you see that with a lot of people. &quot;Hey, I'm making $50,000 a year. I'm donating a lot of my time and I'm giving money to my church,&quot; or, &quot;I'm giving money but I don't get a benefit for it,&quot; I'm looking at it and going, &quot;Well, your standard deduction If you're single, it's close to,&quot; it's double that pretty which is like, it's, again, 25,000 plus. And unless you're giving chances are you're not going About 80% of people file the So about 80% of the people for charitable giving. And trust me, the charities know this 'cause they took it in the chin in 2017 when they passed that law, it was much more beneficial when it was a lot smaller - Once they capped that state - The SALT deduction. - Yep, it made it really hard to get to that married filing joint, get above that standard deduction. - Yep, and so what I would, I remember I did, taxmaggedon, I think is what they called that. When they passed the tax act, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act in 2017, we did, it's like taxmaggedon. And one of the first things we said is, &quot;Instead of giving in one year, get used to giving in two or get used to giving in three years.&quot; In other words, put your money aside, save it, save it, save it. Instead of giving money just say, &quot;Hey, you know what, I'm going to put the money maybe I'll give nothing but on January first I and then by the end of the And what I'm doing is I'm into one year so that I could try to get some benefit out of it. Some people are up for Or if you have capital assets, you might give a capital &quot;You know, what, can you sell it?&quot; Maybe it's stock. You sell it, that way I don't have to but I get to write-off Maybe that's something you're So, like, we went through all Same thing with crypto. Like when it was going &quot;Hey, can I give it to my church?&quot; Yeah, you can give it to your church or your church can hold onto I'm just teasing. It's crypto-- - I do love that whole strategy of giving either something large or giving a couple years in advance. One thing I usually suggest, especially if it's a church is you let them know. &quot;Hey, I'm giving you my next three years' worth of contributions. Don't expect this every year.&quot; - Yep, &quot;I'm on the board of no compensation from the business. Would this qualify as active participation if we keep accurate minutes Active participation I think you mean material and that just depends on how much time. And if you're a board member, chances are they're going to treat you as, if you're least doing, you'd have to do over 500 hours 'cause I can imagine that there would be a material participant unless it's really not an active business. But if it's a traditional business, to be a material participant, you really got to put I think that's it. So there's the YouTube again, if you feel like subscribing and doing a deep dive I have a feeling I'm going to on exiting syndications and things like that. It'll be kind of fun. We don't know everything. If that's one thing that you'll is that we're curious but nobody knows everything. But you can ask how does it get treated or how could I get it in a from my tax standpoint. Somebody says, &quot;I donated for my wife. Is that deductible?&quot; Yeah, it'll be treated as a Whether it's deductible, depending on your standard and whether it exceeds that amount. So sometimes yes, sometimes no. But you're doing the right no matter what. All right, go to YouTube. If you have questions and you want to get them answered, send them to us And then of course, visit you go into our website, sign up for, you can see where there's that we teach. Some are a little more advanced. Some of them are more basic. But at any event, tons of material. Anything, Jeff? - Nope, that's all I got. - Then I'll say this. Elliot, Troy, Matthew, Dutch, Paio was on, Ian, Christos, Patty, Matthew, all these guys are on answering your questions. They do a great job. So thanks again, guys. It's a team effort and we enjoy your, the fact that you're So hopefully you got somethin' out of it. If nothing else, we will