Hey there guys, Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video, we're chiller replacements, and how to estimate the energy savings. We'll look at why to replace a chiller, when to replace a chiller, how to calculate the estimated savings, as well as discussing for advanced calculations. Just before we get started, I want to take a moment to for sponsoring this video. Danfoss wants to help longer lasting, and and they have a wide range of solutions to help make that possible. In fact, they have up to for your chiller systems, A/C drives, system valves, electronics, and sensors. It doesn't matter what kind of Danfoss have products that can increase reliability, and ultimately, take efficiency to a higher level. All of these solutions come together to help you design and from the inside out. You can get started by heading As you may already know, chillers are typically the largest, single-energy consuming piece of equipment within a commercial building. As growing pressure on building owners, the building and facility's managers, as well as engineers and the to reduce energy and operating cost of a building. As the chiller is typically the largest, single-energy consumer it is often looked at for and rightly so. In our previous chiller video, we discussed different ways of an existing chiller. You can watch this by following the links in the video description below. But in this video, we're an existing chiller for a Why and when to replace a chiller. Chillers typically have of 10 to 25 years. Their age, condition, usually play the biggest part in deciding when to replace a chiller. What should also be considered that can be achieved for a replacement chiller and also the reduced maintenance costs. For example, replacing an existing chiller for a Turbocor chiller, in many cases, is able to cut the chiller's by around 30%, sometimes even higher, depending on how inefficient The maintenance cost because the Turbocor so the only maintenance the capacitors about tightening the electrical and annually dust off and That's it, no oil replacements, no periodic tear downs, We have previously discussed into effect, which will see due to their potential Some chillers can be retrofitted with alternative refrigerants, but the capacity of the because it was not designed to operate at the performance of which means you'll almost certainly need to replace some of the and it may no longer be able to meet your cooling design requirements. Therefore, it's a good time to consider a replacement chiller. How do we compare the performance There are many ways to compare One of the most common ways or the integrated part load value, or the NPLV for the This value is supplied by on request, or can usually be found in their sales and technical literature. The IPLV or NPLV is of a chiller operating at against a typical amount of time per year at specified conditions defined by ASHREA in AHRI standard 550 slash 590. When a chiller is unable to then it will be rated as an NPLV. There are two types of IPLV values, depending on whether it was or the kilowatts per ton. These are just slightly the efficiency of the chiller, but these will be stated by For example, a chiller with might have an IPLV COP rating of 4.6, whereas an equivalent Turbocor compressor might have an IPLV COP rating of 10.35. As COP is based on the per kilowatts of cooling output and a higher COP rating means Therefore, the Turbocor is more efficient than the reciprocating compressor. When the chiller is rated on than a lower value means The same reciprocating kilowatts per ton of 0.7645, whereas the Turbocor kilowatts per ton of 0.3398. So the Turbocor is therefore How to estimate the for a replacement chiller. There are a few ways to calculate this, and it depends firstly what the and what data you have available. It is not recommended to use to estimate the energy consumption for a building's cooling system. As these values do not represent they will only represent the test data for specific conditions It is therefore recommended to instead use a building energy analysis program, which is compliant with As this can model the as well as weather data, and reflect how the chiller and cooling system will react. However, if you're some calculations to of annual energy consumption then you can use one of the and we'll look at examples Do remember though that these There is no way to exactly There will always be a difference and the actual value. If you have a chiller then you can use the To calculate the estimated simply multiply the rated with the efficiency at full and then multiply this value For example, if we were to with a full load efficiency of to a scroll chiller with an efficiency of 0.6 kilowatts per ton, and both chillers were and run for around 3,000 hours per year, then we would see that consumes about 1.2 megawatt hours per year and the scroll chiller consumes about 900,000 kilowatt hours per year. Alternatively, if you have the COP rating, you would simply divide rated in kilowatts by the COP value, then multiply this by the So to compare two chillers the first being a reciprocating and the second being a scroll Both run for around 3,000 hours per year, and the estimated energy to around 1.2 megawatt hours per year for the reciprocating chiller, and 900,000 kilowatt hours per If you have a chiller which is far more likely, then you can use one of If you have the IOPV then you can use the following method. To calculate the estimated then take the cooling capacity rated in tons for the chiller and multiply this by the annual Then multiply this by the efficiency of the IPLV kilowatts per ton value and then multiply this all by which is typically around 0.6 or 60%. For example, we'll with an IPLV rating of 0.34 with an IPLV of 0.65. Both units are rated at 250 tons with an average load factor of 0.58 and these operate for So if we drop the numbers in, you can see that the at 246,000 kilowatt hours per year, whereas the reciprocating at around 471,000 kilowatt hours per year, resulting in a substantial saving of 224,000 kilowatt hours per year. If you have the IPLV COP value, then you can use the following method. To calculate the annual estimated annual kilowatt hour consumption, take the cooling capacity, and multiply this by the Then divide this by the and then multiply this by Again, this is usually around 60%. For example, we'll with an IPLV value of 10.35 with an IPLV value of 5.409. Both have an average load factor of 0.58, and a run time of 3,000 hours per year. To calculate this, we need to take the chiller's rated capacity in kilowatts and multiply this by the Then divide this by the and then multiply this by Dropping these numbers in, we can see that the reciprocating chiller consumes around 343,000 kilowatt hours per year, whereas the Turbocor consumes around 153,000 kilowatt hours per year. For a better and more accurate comparison for replacing an existing chiller, you can log the cooling load profile and energy consumption at intervals. Hourly should be fine. And then record this over a The longer, the better. Then using the part load efficiency data for any potential replacement chiller, you can calculate and compare the estimated energy consumption to see the potential savings. Let's have a look at for a daily load profile. From the chiller log, we can in refrigeration tons and for around 10 hours per day Then we need the efficiency of both the existing and the new chiller, and in this example, we'd use the rating of kilowatts per ton for the efficiency. So by multiplying the we'd get the hourly Then we can see that the existing chiller would consume 1,378 whereas the new chiller would consume 980 kilowatt hours a day, resulting in a saving If the chiller were to for 52 weeks per year, then the replacement chiller could save 103,000 kilowatt hours per year compared to the existing chiller. If you have the cooling load in kilowatts, then you should use the chiller COPs to calculate the hourly For this you carry out the same analysis to find the chiller's efficiency from the chiller manufacturer, except that this time, you by the COP value to calculate the hourly electricity consumption. Again, from this we can see would produce significant savings. As I said, this is an In the real world, the chiller load would change throughout and would likely run So you would need to account for this. Basing the annual is simply not going to be sufficient. You need to maximize the If you think there is a business case for replacing a chiller, then when you tender the ask him to provide an estimated To calculate the financial savings, you need to consider for the building, as this throughout the day and the year. You might also have savings from reducing your peak as well as reductions from the associated carbon emissions penalty charges. More complex financial inflation rates for the tariffs. Savings can also be in pumping costs due the across the chiller's Lastly, you should obtain and materials of the new chiller and include any reduction For payback, you need to as well as the removal, and commissioning for the That about wraps things up. Before I go, I just want to for sponsoring this video. Don't forget to check out their wide range of chiller solutions over Okay, guys, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoy this and it helped you. If so, please don't forget to If you have any questions, leave them in the comments section below. You can also follow us Twitter, Google+, and also check out our website, Once again, thanks for watching.