You might not be where Or where you imagine you would be. And if this is I want to let you know that I have been It can feel dark You can feel lost. You can feel anxious about what This happened to me I started in an industry and when the crisis happened, Deep down, I knew I wanted something else. Deep down, I knew I was meant for more. But I didn't know what that was. And so I would try to escape that reality By drinking. By doing anything and everything to escape the fact that I was living in a reality I wanted to break free, this is where things can change for you. When the pain of where you are now is greater than the pain of change that is the catalyst for you taking responsibility for where you are Because only when you start owning and your future can change, No more blaming other people, No more blaming things To do that is easy. It is always easy to blame things for where you are right now. But it is harder to take responsibility. It is harder to change your focus from what has been to what can be. "The secret to success", as Socrates not on fighting the old, And in this video, I want to show you how you can start building the new you. And this begins with clarity. It is far better to be climbing than it is to becoming fast up To know what mountain is the right You have to be clear To begin with, the end in mind as How would you know that you would have had a successful year? How would you know that a productive one? How would you know that you would have accomplished When you begin with the end in mind, and also you are able to understand This is exactly what people like Bruce to change their life into something to live with purpose. Bruce Lee in 1969, at a time where of breaking into the film He stamped the word secret at the top and He wrote, oriented superstar in the United States. In return, I would deliver in my capacity as an actor from 1970 I will become world famous. I will earn millions of dollars. And I would choose to live how I please. He wrote deep down aloud to himself He was imprinting that goal into the subconscious of his mind. He was making the impossible possible. He was giving direction to want to focus its energy on what mattered most, He then started to align his actions in This is what I did due to the financial crisis One of the first things I did There is a saying that goes we make as humans And that wisdom begins And that's what I did. I got to work in knowing myself better. And it began with these free, Free, simple questions The first is know, other people The second is what sort of impact And the third is What value can you offer others? Here is a reason The first question about success you understand your own definition. Because so many of us are exhausted, but because we are doing too and we are running someone else's race. As Bonnie West said in her book, the top regret is that they wish to themself than a life lived for others. So when you are clear you can start aligning your actions The second about impact this is because when we have impact, on the lives of other people, This is what makes us feel alive, knowing that we have impacted somebody's That is what contributes to our legacy. The third, about value is to understand We're all born with different gifts, in the go of conforming And so we neglect the strengths And when you do things that don't it manifests itself You're going against who you are. You're not doing the sort of work Now, once you are clear on the impact and what value you can offer, you that you are making time This isn't going to happen by itself. These things don't land and you not out of thin And this is where commitment comes in. You must be committed to a new future. You must be committed to that new life Because without commitment, And the first step you must take to be committed to let go of your old life, Because your new life, your better When you have the courage you are To be committed to your new life is to take actions that will help one of the fastest ways to do that is to understand the sort of person We focus too much on what we want process easier is instead of beginning Focus on who you must become. Think forward 30 years about who does. Success for you is like, what is he? Or she doing? Where are they? What characteristics are embracing and demonstrating when you know You want to start making decisions today future self acts And then your choices Because if you are going not sure if you are meant it's often because you're not clear when you know who you want to become You operate from the future, not the past. Then your choices and habits are made. If I want to be someone if I want to be someone if I want to be someone who creates then guess what? The choices I must make today to realize that future day It's now obvious when you work from So once you have clarity means you, once you have courage When you are committed to that new future, the ideal environment to make that happen. Because the fastest way to make progress is to design an environment When I first started, I would look how do you get to spend time with these How do I get to do that as well? But you can you can do that right now. The first step to curating a better to change what you listen to and what you watch. The very first books I picked up Books written by the likes of Brian Tracy, even Do I want them It felt like I was accessing It was from spending time reading these books It changed my perspective of of what I could do, of what had to happen You can do that now. How can you start optimizing upgrading your environment So Once you have curated an environment then have to be consistent in the actions you get clues to who A question If you took your average day right now and you were to repeat it would you be closer to or further away If the answer is further away, then What must change in your daily routine? If you want to be closer to who and where to help understand what habits must change is to sketch out what your ideal week would look like What would your ideal day Once you start blocking out and the actions that are going to help you make progress the challenge for you about guiding time for those activities, and noise around you, that is just getting busier and busier be measuring it against that ideal week How close did you get to You won't always hit it, that ideal day and week, the easier because you are prioritizing Those actions that are aligned to where you want to be, the vision You're not always going to be perfect. Things aren't always going to work out I know. Because I don't always hit The key thing is, is and you are focused on what matters the majority of the time, That is what is going to create the change You have to show up Just one small step a day on where you would be a year from now, That is 365 steps. Just imagine where and who you could be. So to summarize, if you want to be in six months or a year from now, you must first take ownership When you take responsibility for That is when life truly begins. You must get clear on the person that you want to become. You must have courage in order to commit to your new life. You must understand looks and feels like to have Because when the vision is compelling and magnetic You must create an environment around you You must be consistent in the actions you want to become It is harder to finish. And in this personal development journey, Not all risk but all winners are risk takers. Things will go wrong along the way. You're going to have challenges. You're going to have setbacks. I know I have them every single day. This is part of the journey. But keep in mind, in the long What matters If you respond to them in a healthy way, from your setbacks, is you are going to expense You are going to become somebody you are going to become somebody More importantly, you are going to go that you could never have imagined before there was a reason You want change. You're not like most people, They're comfortable where they are. There was a system to changing things. But you clicked on this video You want a better future. You want a future that you can be A future where you realize your potential and are in a completely different place If that is to happen, I encourage you Knowledge is only potential power. The real power lies in your ability to take action, in your ability The gap between idea and execution. and when you make moves towards what you want makes moves towards you. Thank you so much for taking the time If you enjoyed it, you might also like I wish I knew earlier. It would mean the world to me Share a comment below And subscribe. For more videos like this. I hope you have a beautiful day ahead. And in the meantime,