This is a great recipe guys because it's made out of ingredients you can get from reliant on tins and jars and pretty simple some chilies. And it's such a nice thing you haven't got you can swap them out easy. So You don't even have to use a food processor or So by grating it just kind of starts the process the garlic I tend to just turn it around onto the And then ginger, so the ginger I just take the If you dry this you can make fantastic herbal tea. bit of lemon zest in there, a bit of mint, it's that in. If you can't get the fresh ginger you can find that just don't worry about it, it just adds that is very very nice. Get a little and then we'll go in with those 3 ingredients. heat. It's an amazing smell. So, chillies, I know these days some people hate it, you don't have chilli of course you're going to get maximum heat and then remove the seeds and put them in as and it allows you to pull it out or kind of put it So that's what I'm doing in this dish. So and then put these halves in here Because you've grated the onions and garlic of those vegetables much quicker, to give you so the next ingredient is a curry paste. So you I'm going for a jalfrezi you could go for balti is one tablespoon right, slightly heaped and can be like 5, 10, 15 ingredients they've fantastic. So that goes in the pan immediately guaranteed flavour through and through. Then tins of tomato, we're going to go for mango and the mango chutney is really interesting. and that gives it the most fantastic sweetness paste easy, and you can even swap out say a mango a little bit of marmalade right, it's that sort of curry and you can get some amazing results. So to almost amplify caramelisation? Can you So tomatoes go in and I want to just Scrape all the sticky bits off the so the tomato's cooking down beautifully. And so the coconut milk will give it that tropical shop curry sauce right, that's the base. And absolutely I want to put some chickpeas in good and super nutritious. So this is a really want to put in. I'm gonna go chicken today I'm paste just a little bit and rub it all in on both Look at that, lovely. So look get a pan screaming go with it of course I want rice so that goes So 1 builder's mug of rice to 2 you can always rely on it, enough there for 4. got rice on, 12 minutes away. Now that screaming Always good to wash your hands. So at this stage in the game I want to turn on the other side. Perfect see how dry that a good thing this is exactly what we want. We and of course we haven't got a tandoor so we're Okay, so guys let's talk about options and got chicken. You could have a bit of white fish and rub it in the same spice and then you plop it in there easy. You could could do it you know with vegetarian options like toss it in that paste roast it in the oven, it in the pan and then get it in here. There to serve you really well. So at this time just Just a tiny bit of salt. Delicious so that's banging. The chicken is charring away. The of all salads it could be iceberg lettuce, but basically something fresh and crunchy absolutely nothing flashy at all I'm just going That's it. And just with lemon juice So just grab the lettuce in here. Lettuce with I'll do that. Lemon, lime, even a bit of vinegar up. And it just works in my opinion, simple simple the chicken. Now this chicken might even be just it's actually quite classic that it's under at it under? Yeah you can see it's under there. Right we're going to plop this into the sauce it means it will be succulent when it's in the sauce but basically in 5 minutes is going to be absolutely incredible. Now There we go a simple corner shop curry, the chicken is to cooked through. It's gonna We get some rice going in the story. I'm gonna take some of this amazing sauce first. And then let's get some And then just finish it off with some poppadom. them, you can get them from the corner shops like herbs like coriander and stuff like nice and fresh. A little bit the old salad on shop curry sauce with chicken and rice. Just lovely. You get the stodgy rice, you get nice chicken the chicken's really succulent by pull the chilli aside and then just sort of make This curry makes me very very happy, it is its flexibility, the way that you you can go fish, prawns, veggie,