&gt;&gt; Hey, everybody, the host of Encounter Today and what you may not know who had an encounter Now I need every who are watching this right now, with as many people because I believe to have a divine encounter. I was an atheist. I despised Christians I'd been in jail And I didn't want anything A friend of mine had invited me I didn't want to go, but there was a special choir And as a lover of all I said, I'll go, but I'm going and somehow we winded up And it was I'd never been in People started talking and then praying for people and And I was looking If they didn't have one, When all of a sudden he pointed his finger &quot;I am laying hands on you now to make you an example a young man sold out to me.&quot; And as far as I was concerned, I didn't feel anything. In fact, all I felt was I was angry at my friend And I'm telling you this have loved ones You've tried and maybe they haven't responded Don't look because though I was angry and I something was happening Over the next few days, I didn't realize But doubt began I began to think these You don't believe Don't ever walk through Well, there was a youth party I thought, well, Then we're going and there was going Why not? So I showed up on a Sunday night and during that youth event, they were talking, music is blaring, foosball, When I walked through there was this dark cloud that I could barely lift my head up, You don't believe in this. You don't belong here. So I went and sat and as I sat there with these all of a sudden it was as I don't know if you've ever And you know what it's like, how you can hear the sounds But they're muffled all the sounds around me, the music, everything that was happening And all I could hear was It was saying the same things You don't believe And I recognized immediately, that it was the voice of Satan. Chills ran down my spine. I can I can feel the hairs because it was a horrible sound. that all the thoughts all of the decisions I thought on those thoughts were inspired It was as if God, pulled the curtain away to see who was really And if someone has shared and maybe you've been concerning God, let me Those thoughts Those thoughts are coming And that voice, loud, as loud saying get out of here. You don't believe And God showed me not only that because it doesn't take that if the devil is real, And God showed me was that he was holding on and he was only holding on and God had exposed I didn't know how to pray. So I said, Satan, Jesus, I'm all yours. And in that moment, the torment left, And I felt I didn't know anything I didn't know. The Bible says but with the mouth, confession But I felt compelled what had just happened to me. So I made them I made everyone stop playing, and through sobs I shared with them the experience I just had. And the moment I didn't even know were Bondages I didn't know and I was instantly Listen to me. I don't know for a loved one someone has shared this His deception is deep, but it's In a moment I'm going to pray but you need to give You may not know much about God. All you need to be able you can't have me anymore. And Jesus, I'm all yours. Let me pray in your life in Jesus' name. Just lift your hands Father, in the name of your son, You see the bondages the deceptions I pray those be exposed, and that they be broken right And I pray that now there'll be of your mercy and turn to you Just declare right now In fact, write in the comments I receive in Jesus' name. they'd be happy They'd be happy But here's what I felt compelled to share You need to share it Right now. and let's get because Satan is They think it's their own that are telling them and they don't realize But I believe the Holy Spirit can use you to expose and bring the truth Hit that share button and let us know that And I'm going to be looking and I'm going to be So if you have be sure to put those We love every and I can't thank you enough and allowing me to share God bless.