Matt: "So let me get this straight, you just play as a cat?" that's it, it's great! haven't you ever Matt: "No." these captions: "Oh come on!" And when he's not sleeping, he's just a jerk. Matt: "Observe." "But that was just a..." "and again." Matt: "And agai..." Matt: "And again." Hello Internet. Welcome to Game Theory, the most That last pun was a cat-astrophe. But don't Woo. Okay. Now that the bad puns are out of my in the grand tradition of Keyboard Cat, Nyan Cat, latest cat obsession. In it, you control a that you quite literally fall into. It's a good also joined by a drone named B12, so if the cute will. Through a variety of pushing things off the city - you know, typical cat stuff - you uncovering the truth of this underground city and it. It turns out the surface had become a baron fled to these underground cities, creating robots plague developed, which wiped all the humans out. 2,544,875,556 days ago, or nearly 7 Million the Companion robots begin to evolve into sentient friend B12 here is different. He's special. A big robot, but rather a human scientist. A scientist This, therefore, makes them the last "living" - that, in the end, B12 has to sacrifice themself access to the surface, which apparently is no and armies of cats. The final shot of the game is as the electronic system at the edge of back to life. Aaaaaand roll credits. me a game where I...le cat...get to purr and rub my this much lore when they saw a big cat on the world, a plague, 7 MILLION years of history! With I know. A theory! Because while everyone else nice the ending is, I'm sitting here thinking he just doomed the entire world. And the game - the computers outside the city pretty much everyone I've seen play this game actually dead. That in using the network to open body, but managed to upload their consciousness systems. And you know what? That is a perfectly Me, though? I ALSO have a perfectly valid mine is a whole lot darker while tying up in the game. I don't think those screen WAY worse. I believe by opening up the city a second time. And all the clues are there inside One thing that I haven't brought up yet these horrifying flesh creatures that chase after game. We learn that the Zurk began as a bacteria was piling up in the underground city. Now, what's that scientists are working on right now. In Japan Sakaiensis, which has developed the ability to eat in better safety precautions than what we see the Zurk suddenly grow out of control, evolving but everything in its path, including metal, our robot friends. Fortunately, we learn that the when we open the city up to the light of the sun all the Zurk in sight, watching them pop faster We've beaten the monsters. The robots are right? Eh, not quite. You see, that heart-warming moment that happened earlier in the game. is the biggest infestation of Zurk, complete with eyeballs! Again, not something I expected from a But this, too, has backing in science. It's been operate as a neural network, acting like the sort Bacteria can also develop more societal behaviors, tasks. Some of the most notable are Biofilms non-living surfaces and myxobacteria that form birthing pods of the Zurk that we see in the game. that the biofilms and giant eyes that we see in like the rest of the Zurk. You can swing your close you are or how long you hold the button They cannot be killed. They have evolved beyond the game wants us to believe that we've eradicated just not true. The strongest of the Zurk are still same weakness of their smaller bacteria brothers. right? Well, you WOULD be right if it wasn't for from one of the walls in the sewers. That right been told that the Zurk's eat metal, we see them we see the rest of the robots act terrified when that we're a Zurk trying to devour them. And yet, he is literally surrounded by the stuff, and Why? Well, it's because the Zurk clearly don't from him. He's kept down here as a prisoner. attention back to our new friend, B12. consciousness that's been downloaded into a drone Prior to this, their consciousness was stored Not much is known about the network. What we it somehow made them able to hack into most of the Companion robots. The only other thing we their mind to the network via a white pod looking we see B12's pod in their lab at the start pod here. Clearly B12 is NOT the only person that In fact, what if I told you that most of the other are humans...or at least have human consciousness the second white pod, we encounter a robot who only to then remember they can't smell anything. more human, nor is it something that an AI is are recalling an actual memory here! Just like the game. By collecting one of the memories down getting burgers from a particular place where the restaurant in Midtown, the server in the burger that's inside of that server robot remembered his somehow influencing current actions. These robots they're all humans that have downloaded their existed for so long that they've forgotten that they weren't built with digestive tracts. It's hair. Their human habits still take effect despite In fact, we outright SEE confirmation of this in see B12's Pod. The pod isn't the only thing that's all of which are then connected to a robot was not meant to be B12's final destination, they were trying to upload themselves to transfer process didn't work out completely. Which brings us all the way back around to our wall of the sewer, because if you look closely, robot and going into computer monitors, ACTIVE themselves into the network and transfer into the Zurk are after as well. The hive mind can use to learn from it, to potentially upload ITSELF to download the hive-mind into an army of robots. the day, to reach facilities where they can then to make them completely resistant to UV light.That the game is so ominous. It's not B12, it's the they needed was the ability to circumvent the them. By opening the city, we gave them the key we've doomed all of society. Didn't I tell you But hey, that's just a theory. A