It's April 21, 2005 at ADX Florence, America's mountains and known as the "Alcatraz of the in soundproof, 7-by-12-foot cells, designed to with the outside world... or with each other. inmates in the country are housed, and because of the prisoners' safety, including constant video for recreation time. And on this particular day, morning, the guards noticed something odd. an area surrounded by 12-foot-high was an inmate... lying bloodied and motionless. controlled prison in the U.S. get murdered in that the murder had been caught on camera, That is what we are going to find out. arrived at his job watching security monitors up they ensured all the monitors were recording, You see, rec time is when inmates go about a inmates at ADX Florence spend almost the entire from reinforced concrete and equipped with Every cell has its own narrow slit of a window, preventing inmates from establishing any kind delivered through small slots, and showers are contact and reduce the risk of violent incidents. opportunities to break the rules. and handing off weapons were all things Just before 8 o'clock, the first groups of As prisoners started doing push ups, burpees, and scanned the hands and feet of inmates, looking The pair continued scanning until, at 8:21am they of the rec yard. After confirming with his partner phoned the head of prison control, Paul Middleton. as he did, every door in the prison slammed the rec yard. With sirens blaring all around weapons outside his office. Every officer that ran a baton, anything they needed to face the inmates. way into the prison yard, they didn't immediately the yard. This is because prison rules dictated three-to-one balance of power over the inmates. and with so many of them in the yard, they the officers began calling them one by one where individual prisoners could be handcuffed enough inmates had been removed like this would that officers could clear the rec yard. make their way to the downed inmate, There, lying in a pool of his own blood, medical staff tried to identify him, they could bruises. When they attempted to identify brain they were unable to do so since his eyes were that his injuries were akin to what they had seen Gorge Bridge which was a 1,000 foot fall. they began CPR and called for an ambulance. The but it's likely he died while still at the prison. hospital though, correctional officers were that is when they got their first clue. Richard "Chuco&quot; Santiago, had blood all significance of this, they came back to his cell Santiago was busy dunking his clothes and shoes stop but he ignored them and started washing extraction to stop him from destroying potential handcuff him and they entered his cell. were also reviewing the video recordings to In ADX Florence, nearly every inch of the with the video feeds running 24/7. finally discovered the identity of the victim. known leader of the Mexican Mafia. The tape showed of the yard when two men came into the frame. caught cleaning his clothes in his cell, and &quot;Chikali" Rivera. As Santiago approached Torrez, when all of a sudden, Santiago cocked back The first blow knocked him to the ground and Rivera could still be seen punching, kicking, The killers were so brazen and nonchalant Santiago even took a quick breather to grab a The next day, officers went to Rivera's cell visibly shaking but cooperative. As he was being what he did. When they didn't respond, he asked wanting to know if that was truly the first "What I did." he said, "I heard it made the news." the corrections officers advised Rivera to stop But who exactly were these people, and why did they want to murder one of them? Mafia, which was born out of the cesspit that in the 1950s, and the whole idea behind gang members under one common banner while their operation on the Italian mafias that were The organization had strict rules. Members had what, up to and including murder. Backing down gang were all grounds for immediate execution. violence earned it a fearsome reputation. So tried to clamp down on the organization by but that ended up having the opposite effect. spread out only grew more powerful. Over the sects throughout California where they continued and murder-for-hire rackets on the outside. the M in Spanish, became an extremely powerful prison system. Its core membership consisted to 50,000 associates and foot soldiers at any full-fledged member. And the only way to do that So where did these three men Manuel Torrez, was a senior leader in the he quickly became a powerful figure in southern business that charged drug dealers and drug users would then take a percentage of the cut and send a more comfortable life on the inside. Mexican Mafia members arrested in a giant do his time at Lompoc, a federal institution However, once at Lompoc, Torrez united all the La Eme and began terrorizing the other prisoners. state prison officials decided the only way to where he could hopefully be controlled. of the Mexican Mafia and, like Torrez, had also Santiago earned his way into the Mexican which got him a life sentence. Continuing off to ADX Florence in 2000, and he and Then there was Silvestre Rivera. Rivera was a career bank robber who brought in huge sums of member yet. After getting caught, Rivera institution he was at. From using drugs to making Rivera was a problem child no matter where it was decided ADX Florence was the only place But even though all of these men were bad guys, found out. But because the institution was federal and the person in charge of finding out the In order to keep his identity a secret, Jon has would later tell a reporter who investigated a very Christian Southern town, and came from a limited to protect himself and his family. And the After being assigned the case, Jon first went to the yard that day. As he made his way into the came over him. The complex was situated in an by picturesque mountains, but the facility When Jon arrived, he asked the prison officials speak with the inmates. They told him that yes one of the worst things a prisoner can do is talk even the suggestion that someone had spoken to him capacity would be enough to get them killed. Jon with the inmates without letting the others know. makeshift office in a secluded part of the prison. at a time with a made-up reason for their removal. appointment, a meeting with an attorney, a reason. But despite this, it didn't take long for One time, after several prisoners had been brought other prisons remarked that they didn't realize And just because they weren't talking to Jon mean they would be any more cooperative. many would unleash a flurry of profanities remained even more defiant and refused stare at Jon in silence until he gave up. not a single inmate made any statement nor anything at all about Torrez, Santiago, or of several hundred inmates had either been had been threatened. Either way, Jon realized he forced to leave ADX Florence empty-handed. Not willing to be defeated, he teamed up with prosecutor who had made a name for himself in even the most complex legal cases and win. to try to figure out what happened, but The experts they chose were the members of the intelligence bureau had several resident players. When the duo met with FBI officials in information they had gathered on the gang. library of information documenting nearly every Not having much time, they received permission them back to Colorado for review. But that was In addition to the documents, they handed over turned state witnesses for various trials. death warrants because of this, were all put The Witness Protection Program is a place government to testify in trials can go to get new get new passports, birth certificates, social ties with all their friends and family who aren't locations far away from where they were from. the FBI field office in L.A. gave Jon and Bob they did not give them information on what nor did they promise their cooperation. But this and why Torrez might have been marked for death. interviewing ex-gangsters to figure out the truth. Bob and Jon crisscrossed the United States mountain towns to sleepy villages and everywhere former Mexican Mafia members to hear directly and what specifically might have happened in the themselves, they did speak to enough people In La Eme, once you are marked for death, it years, or even decades ago; it was still a valid was coming, and because Mexican Mafia members it could take a long time for word to pass Once enough members had voted for death, word prisons or on the outside. Because of this, it released to relay a message on the outside. sometimes have documents showing written rules All confidential information is locked And it is only passed by word of mouth. about this case in particular? What According to them, the reason why Torrez had been 90s, as he was taking over his extortion business, himself. It took several years for other members the time they did, he had already been arrested in So who was Santiago? It's been claimed he was hitmen specifically designated to carry the prison system. So, for Santiago to be sent as Torrez shows that it is very possible But how did Rivera fit into all of this? he needed to commit a murder to finish Santiago would have to receive a verbal order order and then execute it with Rivera. Based that Rivera was a messenger who brought the Rivera arriving at ADX Florence, Torrez was dead. trove of documents provided by the L.A. Field itself, the pair brought a two-count murder But that is where the real hard work started. time in the most brutal prison in America, dissuade other inmates from committing extreme prisoners who had nothing else to lose? Department's Capital Crimes Unit or death squad the United States would seek the death penalty crimes in the future. But there was just Under the Vienna Convention, Rivera had to be upon apprehension for the crime, which corrections cell. And while this might not have seemed like a the Mexican ambassador actually got involved. and Secretary of State about Rivera's case. trying to seek it against a Mexican citizen political pressure, Bob announced that he would but would continue to do so against Santiago. the case for years, Bob suffered a sudden heart took the death of someone who had now become his Jon recused himself from the case. In Bob's who could help? Who had the knowledge of the case Sometimes you don't have to look very far married a fellow FBI agent. After watching she had become intimately familiar with it as she Jon no longer having the heart to continue after off and worked with Mendez to prepare the Rivera Due to the secretive nature of the Mexican Mafia confidential informants to court, the theory that years in the making, while sound, was no good prove the conspiracy theory, the prosecution namely the videotape showing the attack. extreme security measures taken to protect all of quasi-terrorist organization. Each of the were not shown in court, and a four-digit As for Rivera, he was shackled to a bucket U.S. Marshals ready to tackle him should line. But just before the trial kicked surprise piece of evidence: an eyewitness. not been able to procure a single statement all of a sudden, before trial, the defense team to testify about the attack. There was a chance So, how did the government According to them, Rivera had been sitting in rec yard that morning. Due to an administrative correct time, and so Rivera had flagged down a Meanwhile video footage had captured talking omto it. Further investigation by that Santiago had been talking into Rivera's Once outside, the duo began warming up for their the video footage, Santiago approached Torrez the next six minutes beating him to death. what the new defense witness testified about. Arcadio Perez came forward as the new witness. Perez said that Torrez had apparently passed him a to be dealt with. And that because Rivera was not Perez later testified that these were not empty that at the rec yard that morning, they were of &quot;Let's Go,&quot; they would pounce on him and For his part, Perez did not want to do it. and he honestly liked the guy. However, Torrez was would mean a death sentence for himself. But was According to prison records, Torrez had utilized that morning. Prisoners used this system since out there. From guard testimony, Torrez had been it did seem odd for Torrez to be asking for Rivera was saying. But why didn't he follow through? Torrez and start fighting him, he dispute between two made members and he As a result of this, he stayed on the sidelines. Much to everyone's surprise, Rivera what he said had a ring of truth to it. him because he was close friends with several were associated with the man Torrez had murdered threatened Rivera's life on numerous occasions. probably wanted everyone to forget about other ranking Mexican Mafia members imprisoned at what Torrez did scared him about what would For his part, Rivera denied that he was a he said he was the one defending himself. Rivera under his wing and vowed to protect him. Torrez had threatened his life again Santiago took the initiative by using the ruse to Rivera then jumped in to help finish off Torrez. that if he had not helped kill Torrez that day, There were two sides to the story, to deliberate and decide on Rivera's fate. they returned a question to the court. consider a lesser charge than first-degree For the prosecutors, it meant they believed Rivera it meant a lesser charge. However, against the advice of his attorneys, stated first-degree murder considered. This was because by now, even a conviction of second-degree him. With just a few more years left on his to be a free man soon to enjoy his retirement. could only consider a first-degree Soon after that, the verdict came back. had a slight smile on his face as he anticipated heard the verdict: guilty... of first-degree murder. when the jury delivered a guilty verdict. the verdict came almost exactly 10 years to When jury members were questioned later as to how case were really about self-defense, why would Torrez even after he was down? After the first few off. Everything afterward was unnecessary. he learned his fate. For the crime spend the rest of his natural life in prison. the time and continues to maintain his innocence case. But what about his co-defendant? skipped a trial and pleaded guilty to first-degree additional life sentence without parole. there were no winners here. he was still a father with children and other such a violent end served no justice to either his had not been sentenced to death for his crimes. for the two killers, the FBI became no closer Mexican Mafia for this murder. Due to the even nearly ten years of investigating yielded lower-level criminals behind bars for good. work, more crimes, and a good bit Mexican Mafia for good in the future. Specifically for ONE Prisoner