Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. This picture is about a year and a half old. are much older than that. The Pyramids of Giza were as old to the ancient Romans as the ancient Romans are to us. there were woolly mammoths living on Wrangel Island. That's pretty old. We often learn about the past in units, separate chapters, which distracts from the fact just nearer each other than you might think, literally written on top of one another. and Martin Luther King Jr. were born By the late 1960s humans had come a long way. We've become a spacefaring species. the first probes to the Moon and Venus and Mars, it was still illegal for a black person in 16 states. seems like a macabre artefact from bygone days but it was last used by France to the year Star Wars came out. native tribes on the American frontier, was being build. who would later watch the Moon landing on television. We went from Custer's last stand to Armstrong's first steps within the span of a single human life. But all of these stories, you watching this video right now, in the book of human history. mainly been like here on earth, our current societies are weird. by Jared Diamond in his new book Jared Diamond wrote and he's here with me to talk about weird. Weird, w-e-i-r-d, is an acronym for &quot;western, educated, When we talk about human nature a narrow slice of society. everybody in the world, 6 million years ago until within the last 10,000 years for the first time we began developed writing and then we acquired kings. are matter of the last 5,000 - 10,000 years. or the media, they're a matter The relative recency of weird societies information and knowledge increases we thought some pretty strange things. in 1903 The New York Times predicted would be possible in 1 to 10 million years. Later that very same year In 1908 it was said that no flying machine will ever fly from New York to Paris. foolish prediction? In 1962 the Decca recording company passed on a young rock band, saying and guitar music is on the way out.&quot; was the Beatles. Keith Moon about a band called The New Yardbirds, &quot;that band so ill-conceived it will sink like a balloon or a zeppelin made out of lead.&quot; Well, Jimmy Page was not deterred. and made it his band's new name. &quot;lead,&quot; and that's where we got Led Zeppelin. There is evidence the Nazis weren't entirely convinced Earth was a globe we lived on the outside of. Instead, they figured the Earth's on the inside of a hollow concave surface in the middle. Seriously. As the story goes, Doctor Heinz Fischer to spy on the British. impossible. But thinking the earth was shaped like up at a 45 degree angle. Needless to say, the experiment didn't work. inauguration and the Wall Street Journal and Coca-Cola and Nintendo and Adolf Hitler all began in 1889. As did a guy named Thomas Midgley Jr. Celebrated in his time, Midgley's legacy has since been tarnished by the negative consequences of his inventions. His list of contributions to society is impressively disastrous. In the late twenties, Midgley synthesized CFC - for which he won Perkin medal. all of those tons of CFCs we were emitting were eating away 4% of our every decade. Like a virus, creating a wound, unlikely to completely heal until me and you have long been dead. In the early 1920s Midgley discovered that by adding Tetraethyllead to gasoline engine knocking could be reduced. The American Chemical Society gave him for the discovery. There were other, safer owned a patent on Tetraethyllead with Midgley. the best option and almost immediately nearly every motor vehicle on earth was spewing lead into our atmosphere and soil, which put it in our blood, lead poisoning for decades. Currently, the reference for healthy children is a blood lead content of less than 5 micrograms per decilitre. After the popularization of Midgley's leaded gasoline, 88% of children in America had double that amount of lead in their blood. in the 1970s, that percentage fell to 9%. Lead is a neuro toxin. Even light exposure, can cause a decrease in intelligence and in increase in anti-social behaviour. in young adults the best predictor of delinquent and violent behavior is literally the lead content of their blood. of violent crimes by juveniles in the 20th century tracks significantly closely with the in their blood when they were Historian J. R. McNeill remarked that Midgley had more impact on the atmosphere organism in Earth's history. final invention was even worse. Well, for him. In 1940 he contracted polio. he designed an intricate system of ropes and pulleys. As was the story of his life, the invention seemed brilliant at first, but four years later he became accidentally entangled in the ropes strangled him to death. Midgley's life took up 0.55% of human history. To put that in perspective, let's time travel, starting right now. 100,000 years ago - the beginning of modern humans. We are moving forward in time an entire millennia, a thousand years, every second. not much is changing. will briefly flash at the end. So be careful not to miss it. And as always, thanks for watching.