I grew up in Bremen, Georgia, about an hour West of here. Graduated from high school there, came to Georgia Tech 1952, met Pat Epps along the way. We graduated in 1956. I had been accepted for pilot training with the Air Force after ROTC, but it was delayed for a year on that to go on active duty. So I work for Lockheed out here in Marietta. And then in 1957 I entered pilot training down in Bainbridge, GA. I was very fortunate. Flew first group that flew the T-37. Went from there to Laredo TX T-33 and got my wings. Came back to Moody Air Force Baseline F-86Ls. What put you on a track to go into ROTC and then into the Air Force? Is that something you want to do since you were a kid or? When did that kick in for you? Well, growing up during World War II formative years, I heard about these guys flying Tigers, running around China, strafing trains and doing things in the big raids. And I thought that must be really neat. But I never thought I'd get a chance at it till I got to tech and found out there was ROTC in it. I could have a chance. And what made you choose Tech? Probably because of the football team, right then. Plus, my next door neighbor was a ham radio operator and he convinced me that if I went to Tech and got electrical engineering degree, my future was secured. At what point in your Air Force career did you get introduced to the F-1O5. I was in Graduate School in Southern California in 1965-66 and while I was there I was thinking, I'm going to miss out on this war because I had a lot of friends that already had assignments. But I received an assignment at the time during before I finished out there for the 105 and the sequence of events was I'd go to survival school at the completion and then to Nellis Air Force Base and check out in the 105 to go to Takhli, Thailand. So when you're an Ellis, how often did you get into Las Vegas? Surprisingly, I didn't go down there as much as you would think. During that time we were pretty busy. I went out a few times to make sure I wasn't going to win any extra money. Tell tell me as much as you can remember about your journey to Vietnam. How did they get you over there? Did did you did you fly an airplane over there or did they ship you some other way? Just tell us about going to Vietnam and your first impressions of of being there. Okay I left from Fort Walton Beach Eglin Air Force Base in the end of March 1967. I flew commercially to San Francisco and then up to Travis Air Force Base, where I was on a military contract flight that Island hopped to the Philippines Clark Air Base and I went through Jungle Survival School there for about ten days. And then I flew again on a contract flight to Bangkok and then on a military airplane, C-47, the old goony bird up to Taklhi. And what do you remember about stepping off an airplane for the first time and I had a very memorable introduction. The fellow who was the OPS officer from my squadron and one that became my flight commander subsequently said welcome to the 354th, the highest loss rate squadron in Southeast Asia. What a good deal. And about a week later I went up and met with the Wing Commander who welcomed the new people and he told us that in two years of operation the track record was in the hundred Missions or one year tour, you had a 50/50 chance of being shot down. If you were shot down, you had a 50/50 chance of being rescued. Welcome to the war. You know, most pilots are in love with the airplane that they flew, but what I mean, some of those loss rates had to do with the airplane you were flying, correct? The loss rate I think was primarily the mission, but... backing up when I was in Graduate School when we knew people were getting assignments, I had volunteered or indicated an interest in every airplane in Southeast Asia except the F-1O5. And that was based on a briefing or from Colonel Yeager when he was head of the test pilot school. He described as an electronic monster. &quot;Can't understand why the Air Force wasted their money on this thing&quot; So, I was not particularly happy when I got my assignment, but by the time I checked out in, the airplane started flying it. I started to really like it by the time I left to go to war. I won't say I was in love with it, but I was proud I was flying it, and the more I flew it, the prouder I was. But our mission, since we only flew in North Vietnam, made us extremely vulnerable. We didn't have much I would say milk runs. Maybe on a bad weather day you'd do a Recce down in route back One North of the DMZ and that was pretty easy. But I was on my 47th mission and 31 of them were in the Hanoi area. I'd already beaten the odds two or three times. I never got to meet Colonel Olds but he was the commander of the 8th Wing over at Ubon when I was flying and they flew MiG CAP on several missions and to Hanoi that I was on. But I did not meet him personally until we till after the war. So obviously your your missions were into dangerous territory and I've read that...um Well, I won't get into reasons, but because of our unwillingness to stop the stuff coming in from the Russians, they had a very robust antiaircraft defense system, so I imagine every mission was just tremendously high risk. There were a few missions like the when we would do Road. Recce or just general reconnaissance missions down in the lower route packs one, two or three that were all they're almost they were fun, got out and roam around and see the countryside while you were doing it. But yes, when we went into the Hanoi area the expression was when you get up there, your ass belongs to Uncle Sam. Put those bombs on target and there were some missions that everything is there you're we went in at the time I was there we'd make run ins at low altitude around 1500-2000 feet to try to stay out of the radar for the sounds and the radar guns, therefore small alarms fire was a risk that you had to avoid. But yeah, in the pattern that we flew, we'd pull up to about 14,000 feet and then come back in on a dive and that's when the radar could pick you up where... The first month or so I was there where the MiGs would be laying for us right over Hanoi and one mission I was on, we had MiGS going up with us and the pol, we had one 105 and Migs and 105s and MiGs and SAMs going off and Flack all around. I don't. I don't know who the MiG leader was that day, but he wasn't too smart. Oh, you could almost watch your gauge drop. I used to laugh and you could put your hand on the floorboards. You could feel it going by. I'm trying to think typical fuel consumption was probably about 3000 gallons or pounds an hour, the after burner jumped to six six point. A little over 6000. So you didn't do that unless you meant it. No, the the best I did I guess I got it about 1.3 or 4, but that's an interesting story from put on.? Go ahead, I'd love to hear it. We were on a mission on Sunday afternoon and a railroad yard just northeast of Hanoi across the the Red River Bridge there. And my flight leader, we were the number one bomb flight and there was a flak suppression flight ahead of us. And the number four guy there had been hit and we're going down under the clouds, right about 2000 foot level layer. And so my flight leader says I'm going to follow him down. So that left me leading the mission out and about the time I got and got to recover right across Hanoi and that's where we were, in afterburner, accelerating out of there and jinking. A SAM went off so close that I flew through the colored cloud, which only last a couple of seconds, and I came back and I told him that day, I said. I think the biggest damage I did was going across Hanoi supersonic, blowing out all the windows in town. But as we got out, I was starting to climb out, and a fellow from up here in Georgia, who happened to be in my squadron too, I recognized his voice. Called me and he says single 105 18 East of 97. Shake it, you got a MiG on you. So I did a split S right down through the cloud layer, pulled up and when I did, looked out, There was a mountain Ridge on either side of me out here, at least 500 feet higher than me. And I came back out of there rather subdued to say the least. And I remember I got back and went through debriefing and intelligence at that time if you had a tough mission, they'd pull out this bottle of bourbon, old overholt, I remember, and they'd give you a shot. And I threw that one down and I started telling him about the mission. He pulled us so you'd like another. And I said yeah, and I says, can I have another one? I had my third shot of bourbon. We got through the debrief and I'd looked at my watch at about 5 minutes till the evening church time. And I went down to the Chapel and knew this Methodist minister was down there. And I leaned up and right out of his face I said it was a close one today. But he got me back here. I said, do you think I'll be okay here? He says he'll be glad you're here. Come on in. But that was probably my most exciting day other than being shot down. I guess the day you probably don't enjoy talking about, but I hope you will July 5th, 1967 and and maybe you know, I'd I'd love for people who, particularly young people, to understand what your day was like. Not just the fact that you're shot down, but your usual day and preparing for a mission and all you can remember about that day would be Wonderful. I don't have any trouble talking about it. July the 5th, 1967 was obviously a very special day and two or three things led led up to that and that I had just been appointed or signed as the executive officer of the squadron and we were having an inspection. We had a new commander. He asked me to do a check around to make sure we were ready and get acquainted myself. So I had not flown for three days. I had sat a spare when I needed, when they needed, but I didn't get off and I remember on the night of the 4th of July I wrote a letter home and I said well I missed the fireworks again today, but Fergie promised me tomorrow for sure. And sure enough, I went out the afternoon mission. I dropped that report off on the commander's desk and headed out. And later on talking to people in Hanoi, when we were together. Almost without exception, all of us acknowledged there was something different about the way we felt that day. We couldn't put our finger on it. But it didn't it it wasn't like a normal day. And I kept trying to think the whole time, what have I forgotten? What did I do not not do or what? And as it turns out, obviously it was that sense I guess of of the impending what was imminent. But in my case I was the number four airplane and 2nd flight on railroad sighting right up near the Chinese border and just as we started our roll in the first flight, there was a call from MiGs about 20 miles West of us at our altitude. So as number 4, that's part of my responsibility. So I took a quick look out there to see if I can pick them up and I didn't see anything. But when I look back, my leader had already started rolling in and the Flack was so thick that I couldn't see down. So I had to stay up till some bombs went off and I could see the target. Consequently, I had to adjust my roll in. Instead of being in a 45 degree dive, I was probably at least 60 coming straight down, and I had to adjust the altitude and drop the bombs and I flew through three levels. They were laying out Flack at at Level 3, about 3000 feet apart. I made it through the three of the levels of Flack, but just as my bombs came off, I felt a hit. I'd been hit twice before, so it was unmistakable, but this time my procedure was when I dropped the bombs, hit the afterburner, pull out, let that give me the thrust and start my Jinking. Well, I hit the afterburner the airplane just did a tumble and I came back out and it stabilized and I remember this distinctly. Boy, it'd be a heck of a ride at Coney Island. I'd never been there, but I'd heard about it. So I relaxed, put the burner back in, get out of here. And the airplane just started flipping and tumbling and I couldn't see out because of the flames. But I was still going to try to make it as close as I could to the water. We'd come in off the Gulf and we're going back out that way. But about that time the the camera up in front of the dash, under the windscreen broke loose and I had to duck as it went over my head. And as I was looking the ESPA panel just started crumbling and the airplane was starting to come apart. So I leaned back, put myself in position, pulled the handles, and I remember thinking nothing happened then boom it's gone and I had a very interesting experience in that I grayed out. I couldn't see anything. Didn't feel anything. I was just kind of floating. I thought I was dead, literally. And then I started feeling some pressure and my vision started coming back and I could see a little bit of green. And then all of a sudden I can see the canopy of, you know, the tops of the trees. And I'm coming down And I looked up to see if a canopy was open and it was just starting to blossom. And I reached up to get it and when I put my hands on the risers, they collapsed. I was sitting on a log on the ground and that all took less than two seconds because Had those automatic systems that got me out pulled the chute, not worked, I wouldn't be here talking to you today. I figured I went out inverted in negative G's and probably maybe even ejected toward the ground. I don't know. No idea. But somebody up there was looking out for me that day again like the day that over Hanoi supersonic. You're not any place you want to be? Well, the first thing obviously that I did, once I was on the ground sitting on the log, my para... my emergency beeper was going off. Get that off so I can talk. But I couldn't get up to it. I couldn't get it cut off. I didn't think I realized after the fact that I had, because two others had been shot down and their beepers are the ones that were going off blocking things. But I made an immediate call. Told them I was down safe. I'd check in in an hour. That's really optimistic. But sitting on the log looking down is kind of ironic. I looked down and looked at tree. This is just like North Georgia, those hills, same kind of scrub trees and pine tree and rubbing around the ground gravel. And all of a sudden it dawned on me, these ain't going to be friendly North Georgia Mountaineers. Everybody I see now may be looking to kill me. So I started trying to get rid of stuff. My chute was caught in the trees. I couldn't get it down. My Survival kit had that comes out separately,had banged down and I couldn't get it open. But I could get the side open that had the jungle hat with the mosquito net and a bottle, two cans of water. And I pulled out the water, stuck them in my a flight suit, put the hat on threw my helmet down the hill, hoping that would make them think I'd gone that way and I started up the hill, which was the instructions or recommendations from survival school and as I got to almost to the top of the hill and I can see a path out here that I was going to go to it and I hesitate just long enough. My I think actually my G suit got caught in some brambles and kept me from pushing these bushes open and a Vietnamese ran across closer than four feet away. The only thing he was in a hurry or didn't look my way. So that caused me to look around a little bit and the path. And then I saw these field wires across the way and I leaned up and looked. I'd come down right in the gun ring. There was a gun sat down here about 100 yards and another one over here about 100- 150. And so I reconsidered my actions at this point don't get too carried away, but I managed to get across that path without leaving a track. With the boots and I thought if I got over on the other side and down the hill, I can hide out for that hour and check in and maybe get picked up, get out of here. And I didn't realize when I got across all the brushes over here I was in the grass. Oh, maybe a foot, foot and a half high. And when I got to the edge and looked down, it was a drop off into a bog. I wasn't going anywhere in that direction. So I sat down and opened one of the cans of water. And at that point I was so thirsty I didn't think there's enough water around. I took two sips and I thought it was going to come out my ears. All the psychological, the shock effects, but I've managed to drink it, forced it down threw the can away and about that time I've heard voices gathering up over here along the trail. And they were pointing and talking and I'd heard some shots and hollering back and forth they'd obviously found my parachute and helmet. And so they'd eliminated that side. They just really were going to come over here. And they did. And they came out and I did this and tried to get quite anything white out of sight and hide down, but that turned out I wasn't going to hide under anything. They walked up and tapped me on the shoulder and Welcomed me to North Vietnam. They came out and got me were actually militia. They were in civilian clothes. One of them had a rifle. I Don't mean to interrupt, but these are regular North Vietnamese, no? No, no, These civilian, they're like militia. They're in civilian clothes. I don't know how they fit into the system, right, right there then. But like I say, one of them had a rifle and they started stripping me down. And of course, when I got my pistol out over here, one of them pulls it out and looks at it, and I don't know why. It was just a sixth sense. I just happened to glance up just as he was starting to come across and hit me in the head. And I ducked and missed him. And the guy with a rifle leaned across and hit him with a butt in his chest, Knock him back. And I remember thinking you and I are going to be friends. I don't know about the others, but I like you. But they packed me down well. They started me walk, took off my boots, stripped out everything out of the flight suit. One amusing thing I carried a half a pack of salems, because we'd been told that Ho Chi Minh liked those, and if Ho Chi Minh did, most everybody else probably wouldn't. And I carried some Winston cigarettes too. They pulled the cigarettes out, looked at them, crumbled them up and threw them away. And I said, well, so much for intelligence. But they started walking me and I realized if I walked very far barefooted, my feet were not going to be in a condition to do anything else. So as we started down the trail, I started watching and I found saw a root coming up and I hooked my foot in it and fell over and convinced them that I'd hurt myself. When I got them to carry me all the way down the side of the mountain. And I stopped in a little village they put me in, in a house in a back corner on a bed. And I was there, I'd say 20-30 minutes in an hour because it and he came in tapped out and walked back out. And I got in this, I called it a safari wagon. It was, it's bigger than a Jeep, but not as big as you see safaris nowadays, but open vehicle with a canvas top. And they put me in the back seat, one guy on each side. They're holding my arms like this, I wasn't tied up. But I looked up as the fellow on my left, in English said, &quot;you're now the prisoner of the Chinese Liberation Army&quot;. And what I saw in front was a picture of Mao Tse-tung and Lin Piao, head of the Premier and the head of the People's Army. And I couldn't put my hand up and do the marine salute. But I've said something. You are okay. You really did it to yourself this time because I figured I was gone to to China. Because we were that close to the border. I learned over the next 24 hours that that's why the gun sights were so good down there. The Chinese were running them all, and what we had rolled in over, literally that got us, was what we consider probably the best gun sight in North Vietnam. Of course, now I knew why. And later in 79', when Deng Xiaoping came to this country, he acknowledged that they had 300,000 regular troops in North Vietnam. For the war. So that's what they were doing and it was also why we had been briefed about two or three weeks before that there would be no attempted rescues in the buffer zone right up near the border. That they finally acknowledged that those were the Chinese. And I'd have to say overall I was well treated with them. They brought me something to eat. They want me to do a radio broadcast, which I declined with no pressure. And that night the Commandant came in, They introduced him as a commandant and through the translator said that if I cooperated with them that I would be treated well and I'll be taken to Beijing and be treated well. And I declined that kind offer also because in 1967 Beijing and the Moon were about the same distance from Atlanta, GA as far as I was concerned. i Did not realize, did not know I should say that we had an F-104 pilot to been shot down September 65' who was already in Beijing and he came home when we did and I introduced myself to him and told him my opportunity to meet him. He said you made a good choice. He spent 7 and a half years in solitaire and after the uh... during the 24 hours with the Chinese, when I knew, they took me around the next day to various gun sights. We'd stop someplace an about eight or ten guys would come out in uniform and line up and I called him the cheerleader. And the head guy would get out his little red book and he'd read and chant and read and he'd chant. And they, the translator then would say the U.S. will surely be defeated. The Vietnamese people will surely be victorious. Okay, That's nice. And one thing out of that which really surprised me was that almost every one of these guys had a camera. And when the chanting and cheerleading was all over that all gang around there all making pictures. So I had my fingers crossed that somebody were going to make a picture, they get out because I knew that my close call, I was probably going to be reported as killed in action. So I cooperated with the picture making at that point as much as possible, but the that afternoon they took me up to a place. I guess it was a either a subordinate or a corresponding headquarters where I met some more regular army and I had, I guess you would say, a test of of wills. They started the chanting again and this time they wanted me to say it and I told him &quot;no, I'm not going to say that&quot; and one of the guys, I don't know what they smoked, but his eyes showed he had something more more than than issue. Maybe Old Overholts, but he comes up with his rifle and puts the bayonet right under my chin and pops it up like that. Well, the translator's right here saying you must say it and I wouldn't shake my head. I just did kind of did like that. And after two or three times like that and for him saying you must say it, I finally just did my lips tight like a grim. So I'm not going to say that and an officer obviously came up and got this guy to back off with a rifle. And... but I wasn't too sure there for a while because I can see he the rifle bore was clean it was operable. But once that was over back in the truck back down to the where I've been before in in an area with a cave. But that was my my house right then and they let me take a nap and the commandant commander came by and motioned like that and when I got in the truck. And went down and they turned me over to the North Vietnamese. And I remember when when it made that offer and it go to Beijing and I said no, I want to go to Hanoi. The guy looked at him and just kind of shook his head. So when he turned me over, I leaned back out and I wanted to shake hands with him. And we did, which is part of the story because I hope to meet him later on. But anyway, the Vietnamese took me blindfolded me. And took me down...I'm pretty confident to kep airfield and I got a jet helicopter ride into Gia Lam right downtown and then a truck ride across the river to the big prison Hoa Lo. We referred to Hoa Lo as the &quot;Hanoi Hilton&quot; but but also Hanoi Hilton tends to encompass all the camps. If you were in Hanoi, you were in the Hilton. Although everybody, with few exceptions, processed through the big prison initially. And I went in the new guy village there, learned I wasn't nearly as big and mean and tough and strong as I thought I was. Couple of little fellows with a rope can get you to do and say things that you didn't plan to. And another one that got my arms up behind me for the better part of a day, convinced me to do some things. It had been opened in, I think summer, June, July Area 66, and they called it the farm because at the edge of town and you could hear the chickens and the animals and things around. And they named the buildings for things like the barn and the stable and the chicken coop. And there were, it was an old French movie studio, so there's a theater there that was obvious. They have a swimming pool and one was a pool hall. So all those names fit in about one of the guys that was living in the front of the pool hall was a real character one day. Well, almost all the doors had these little openings, and we call them peep peeps for short. And that's what they'd open up and look check on you every morning and during the day or at night or whatever. One of the guards came by one day and did that. After he walked off, this fellow tapped his neighbor next door. So this is the first zoo I've ever been in where the animals look at the people. And from from then on it was the zoo. After the zoo, sometime during the summer of 70', the Vietnamese were readying a new facility for us at an existing army post out again. To the West of Hanoi. And they had moved at least two groups in there earlier. One, I'm from the Hanoi, I mean from the Son Tay prison where the raid took place later on. But it was the first time we had had compound living, so to speak. It was a big long barracks. It was divided into several rooms. Excuse me. (clears throat) But after a few days we were all out together. They'd come and just unlock the doors in the morning. We had the run of the place till siesta time, done an issue and they put us back in for a couple hours and then we'd back out. We had the run of the place till time to lock up to go to bed. We had a latrine area and a wash shower area. It it definitely it. It was not Hogan's Heroes, but it was so much better than anything we had had. We're getting sunshine exercise. And then the Son Tay raid popped in and that was about 6-7 miles away. We heard all the fireworks and see the airplanes and activity and it scared the bejesus out of the Vietnamese. Two days later we were all loaded up, now taken back down to the big prison Hoa Lo downtown and it opened up an area in the back that we knew was back there because when I was there before. we could hear people back in there. They had been using it for political prisoners as well as South Vietnamese prisoners they'd captured. And these cell blocks were roughly 25 feet by about 55 or 60, and they had up to hundred 100 to 120 South Vietnamese in each one. And there were 50 to 57 of us in each one. And on the concrete slabs, you had about that much space and then had guys laying on bed boards around on the floor. It was a crowded sardine can, but it was so nice to be with people that you'd only heard names of for several years. But now you got a face to go on my personality and you got new people to talk to and these stories to hear. And it it, it was actually fun for a few days. The first stop that I made when we went out to the zoo was in the area that we called the Annex is There was a series of buildings, Link or nine or ten of them, where they stored the film from the studio. And in fact there were all rows of film around and so on. And I was in this group of of three other F-105 pilots that have been shot down in early October. We'd gotten there in late October, but none of us knew anything about the tap code. We tried to talk across the wall or do something to the group that was next to us. There were two units in each building, but we weren't getting anywhere till this. The next spring March, this Navy Lieutenant Commander came in who knew the code. He had heard it, but he wasn't. Hadn't had a chance to use it. Wasn't very good at it, but we were over trying to get the guys next door to respond and it was tapping on the wall and we were given names. And they were giving their names back. I'm sorry to interrupt you Sir, but how did the code work? Was it a form of Morse code or? No. How did you How'd you know which letter was was what tap? Well, the quick background is one of the very early Air Force officers. I think he's number six or seven shot down. Had been talking to a German POW one of ours who was a German POW in World War II and talked about this code and Smitty asked him what is it. Is it Morse code? No, it's a little matrix five by five. Excuse me, you drop out the letter K because you can get the same sound using a C It's A B C D E F G H I J right on down and to tap it you tap, the first tap is for the row and the second tap is for the column. So B would be 1 22. And my initials W 1 2 3 4 5 dot dot A dot dot and it seems cumbersome till you get it and get going. And once you get established doing it, it's like a lot of other things, you pick up a word from the context and you can get them to go on. And you you can do it even faster than the Telegraph key. I think we used it was a lifesaver for us. But this first effort was really cumbersome and when they were given their names back, this one came out as a as I mentioned, there's no K use the C it came back H I C C E. Some of that doesn't make any sense. So you get him an error and get him to do it again. And about the third time, I don't know why it popped in my mind. I said HIC and all of a sudden I remembered Sic. &quot;ask if that's Jim? and They went back. Jim came back, yes. And it's Jim Hickerson. And we have been fraternity brothers down here at Georgia Tech stood side by side at initiation. He went in the Navy right away when I had that delay it at Lockheed. But we've seen each other about two years after both of us had our wings. But that that would have been 10 years later right there in Hanoi. But it was after he and I were then moved, as we call across the wall into the main prison, he was up in the barn and I was in the pool hall. So we didn't communicate until about two years later when we had what I called a fruit basket turnover and he moved in next door to me and they'd taken some of the bricks out of the windows and I got to lean in and shake hands with him. But then when we went out to the to the camp, we call faith that the compound living. And then back into the We stayed together for the next two and a half... almost two years. Thinking about the whole experience you had to go through a range of I shouldn't say you had to I would imagine you went through a range of emotions. Definitely. At the beginning you're a new opportunity for them and and then there must reach a point where the enemy says we've done everything with this guy that's of value to us we can do. And now you just become... I shouldn't say just become. Now you're you're a prisoner. When you think back I mean there had to be fear, boredom, hunger. I mean how do you describe the stages of of your imprisonment and what it did to. You. Well, First off was the Startling realization that Air Force intelligence at survival school was out of touch with the real world. Because I asked the question as as part of the the process, what do you know about the POWs? So you you're probably aware of the Hanoi March that it happened in the summer of 66'. Oh, and by the way, well, the Navy guys were shot down a couple of days before that happened and they put him in. He got down and got the president. His quote was one of the famous one of us. He said you guys do this very often? But I was concerned about it. and Sergeant told me in the Philippines, oh, we've had reports of really, really good treatment up there because they've been seen out in town at night and restaurants and theaters and stuff. And I'd been there about a week when I Settled down enough. Wished I could get my hands on that sergeant again and also a marine from world from Korea, but anyway, I was not prepared for the immediate torture. To be candid. Obviously in survival school we were talking name, rank, serial number, date of birth according to the code of conduct and evade further question the best of your ability. But a German POW fellow U.S. Air Force had been German POW when I was there, made the statement that if you have something that they want, they will get it. If you're by yourself, they'll get it out of you. If they're more than one, beware of things they'll do to play you off each other to get it. So once I got to the name, rank, serial number, date of birth, and they said what was your target? And I said I don't know. And they said, what do you mean you don't know? And and his English wasn't that good, but I could understand it. But I used the fact that I couldn't to get him to repeat things to buy time, to think about what I was doing and saying. But anyway, he let me know right away that name ranked serial number is now going to cut it. Oh, in fact that that's one of the humorous things. I told you about faking that injury up in the mountain to get him to carry me. I tried the same thing with the Chinese. They brought in a doctor. He checked me out. Said no, you're okay? I said no deep, I know you're okay, but I get to Hanoi. Now I'm in a new venue. So when the interrogator comes in and he says sit, and he was at a table with this light little goose neck thing down here with a stool down, he says sit. So I start like I'm gonna hobble over there. He looks up and he says, maybe you best actor in survival school, but now you in Hanoi, sit down. That alerted me. This guy is not a dummy. He's he's in touch. And over the course of the night he convinced me that their intelligence was immediately up to date. He asked me two questions over the course. One, I've been briefed on it the day before I was shot down, and one the day I was shot down. It's top secret. And he asked me why this happened. First one was, why the MiG.. Why the 104ss no longer fly MiG cap. And I said, you mean they weren't up there today? I thought they were. And then he says, why can you not fly over Hanoi below 10,000 feet now? And we just been briefed on that that day because there's a French delegation in town. So once that confirmed that I got to be serious about this. And when he was asking these questions, what was your target, I said I don't know. I was a spare, got pulled down. I just followed them. Who was in? Who else was in your flight? I don't know. Who's in your squadron? Well, I'm new. I've only been there a short time. And he kept pressing for names. So I started coming up with guys from high school and from Tech who are 4F or never in. I threw in some names of guys that finished their mission and gone home to be good. And I kept cranking them and, I said. And finally, after I don't know how many hours and several times of tying me up and being being passed, passing out and coming back to consciousness, he said, why you keep lying? I said I'm not lying and they said, yeah, you lie same day you we shoot down, man 357 Squadron tells us everything. And I thought about that in a minute and I said, well, if he tells you why, you ask me? I want to hear you say, so we're back to the game again. Name, rank, serial number, Write down all the same questions. And I remember from survival school, if you tell them a lie and somebody else telling the truth, the liar's in trouble. And I thought, oh gosh, if he really did tell them, I'm in trouble. So I started pulling my answers back to more factual things, but not quite as best I could, but sweating it out. And finally, when he quit, about daylight, and this has started a little after dark the night before and I got the day off and I lay there and they brought me some soup and rice to eat. And I got to thinking he really conned me. He played all those things they told me about in survival school. He did it. And then I bought it. Hook, line and... there ain't nobody else up here now. There you go. And I never heard any reference about another guy. Till I got to the zoo with those new 105 pilots and one of the guys had been at the other base at Korat and he said, oh, he said I knew about you. You were shot down same day as Ward Dodge and he was a flight leader in another squadron I said what do you mean? He said yeah, he and another guy were shot down that day. They were 357 Squadron so yeah they had the guy he they put him out as died in captivity about a week later. Once I got through the fear and I mentioned the next day when I when I said he really hooked me and I gotta shape up here and started earning my pay as a major in the United States Air Force. They came in the next morning and says today you write your autobiography. I said no, I'm going to do that. That's (toi se khong viet) You won't write. He says I ordered you to and I said I don't take orders from you. None of these guys wore a rank. So you didn't know who you're talking to, really. But they all look like kids. As you know, Orientals tend to look much younger than they are for a long, long time. But we went through that and they said, well, I'll bring in a camp commander. He he orders you to write. I said okay. So he goes and and I was really been this flippant and blase. No kidding. So he comes back in a few minutes with a guy about his age, same size, and this is the camp commander. And I said to myself, Oh yeah, this was Saturday morning. I said, Oh yeah, these guys were out drinking beer last night. They said, oh, we're going to have some fun with a new guy. He says he asked, will you write your autobiography? I said no. They talked in Vietnamese. He says he asked you one last time... and I said no. Now you talk to him and he says. He orders you to write your autobiography. I said I take my orders from the chief of staff of the United States Air Force. And he talked a little more in Vietnamese. And he says one more time. I shook my head and the camp commander looks up in very good English. This you will be very sorry. Kind of walked out two or three minutes later. This big guy comes in biggest Vietnamese I saw. And they put me on the ground, pull my arms back up behind me. I couldn't do it again. if my life, depended on it my palms, were together behind my neck. I could scratch my neck. And he put Vietnamese handcuffs right there. And they walked out. And I thought, yeah, this ain't a big deal. About 5 minutes later, my hands were numb, my arms were numb, and shortly my shoulders were numb. And pretty soon my chest was numb. And so I started walking around so I can. Keep myself alert and active. I thought Next thing I do, I'm laying in the floor. I'd obviously fallen like that and I did that three or four times. So I just gave up, quit trying to walk around. And during the meal time, that meal time came. The came, comes in with a bowl of soup and plate of rice and holds it up. And I said, oh good, we're going to get a break here and get something to eat. He holds it up and. Or I'm sorry. Sets it on the table and he does that. And I shook my head. He walked over, picked it up, walked out. Maybe they are serious about this. Okay. I lay here a while longer so I guess I passed out, off and on. Because the next time the afternoon meal time came, we come sitting with a soup and rice again. Sets it down to this. And I said no, but I had been conscious enough during the time that I realized I hadn't seen another American. I've been here for four days now, and this was the funny part. I haven't felt my hands all day. This is into the afternoon. I haven't felt anything from my waist up in a good while. If I can't use my hands, I can't feed myself and I probably can't play golf again. So when he starts to pick up the stuff to go away, I said wait a minute. He turned around, and does that and I said I'll try. He pics it up one and I said OK. He turned around and and I nod my head and he wouldn't believe till I said yes. So he left the soup went out and got the officer came back and the officer asked me and I tried with him &quot;I'll try&quot; and he shook his head. So I said okay. So he takes handcuffs off, and I'd been through rope tying up before. And when they do that, the whole purpose is to cut off circulation. And when they release it, it's like grabbing a electric wire. If you've never been shocked, you know, by a house current. Well, this time when he came up, I just shook all over and they brought in a little booklet. Like, I never had it down here, but they called test booklets, You know, the little blue book sort of thing aligned with the whole thing of questions. Sit down and write. And so for about three or four days, I'd sit there and hold a pen in my mouth and push it around with my hands and I'd get 6 or 8 words on a page that way and use up stuff. And it was questions. What's your name? And I put it down. What your father's name? I put daddy. What's your mother's name? I put mommy. Where were you born? I put early age, you know, just Mickey Mouse see. I don't know. I I guess I was so beaten down by this point I didn't really care what they did. I was going to have some fun in the process, but they never referred to that again and it proved for me at least the whole point was we can make you do it. What that Sergeant had said, we'll show you that we run this camp, you'll do what we tell you to do. So from then on, as a game on how much I could keep them from from doing. And then that night when you were asking, this was really my low point, when I ate that meal and realized that I had been broken. And so I know anyhow they had a big thunderstorm. It rained and I was so thirsty. They hadn't given me any water except the when the interrogator would be there and he'd have a cup and offer it. And I remember I got up and I pulled the table over, put the chair on it, put the stool on it and got it where I could get this vent and reached out and got a hold of a limb on the tree so that the rain coming down and running down and I get some water off my arm. And then it quit raining about the time I got it. And so I went over and leaned up against the wall, just slumped down and there was one light way over in the corner and I looked up and it it just kept attracting my attention. And I remember thinking this was like Moses in the burning Bush, I guess. And I sat there and I looked at the light and whether it was a split second or an hour, I can't tell you. But I had an experience of something happened to me and it was all over. I was feel very comfortable, very secure. You're going to live, you're going to get out of this and you'll go home someday. And from then on. I was able to accept things that happened and when would be a crackdown right after escape, in our camp. Other things that are cut down could have a little sense that this this might be bad. I I could just think about it for a minute and I can feel comfortable again. I'm going to do what I had to do and I can. And I remember thinking, Harry Truman made the statement as president that he had no trouble sleeping every night because he knew he had done the best that day that he knew to do, and he needed his rest for the next day. And I realized that I was I was able to do that, and I can lie down every night and go to sleep no matter what was going on. And how long have you been a prisoner when that happened? I was shot down on Wednesday afternoon and that was Saturday night. So. Three days. Three days after you were shot down, you you feel you had a moment that gave you, I won't call it peace, but gave you something that got you through the rest of those years. Was there a day in that prison camp after that that you didn't feel that awareness or didn't think about that? Or did that sustain you every single day? I can't say that I thought consciously every day, but the feeling was there every day. And what do you think about that now? What do you think that was? It still sustains me and the experience that I had there after we were in those large groups we started. After some confrontations of the Vietnamese, we started having Sunday church services and I thought about it a lot. What does this mean to me? What do I do? And I participated not not as an activist, but participated in the services, attended. And when I got home, I went to see another one of our classmates down here at Georgia Tech who had become an Episcopal minister. And I talked to him about it and asked him how did you make the transition because he had been a technical major. How did you make the transition? And he told me experience. And the first assignment I had. When I got back, I was at The Air War college and one of my classmates there was a Catholic priest that I got to know fairly well and I was still in this time and I was saved in that ejection I went through this other experience. What what am I here for? And the Catholic priest, helped put it in the best perspective, he said. Don't try to solve the problem. He said you you go through your life looking for the sign or looking for this or what. They said you may miss what you're actually here for. They said just accept the fact that you're here and make the most of it that you can. And that's that's really what's been with me ever since. Not Like five and a half, almost six years a prisoner. How did you find out you were going home and when you were going home and Tell me about that experience. Well, to put the it all in perspective, when Nixon started the bombing again in May of 72', we were in the big prison there at Hoa Lo and somebody that went to quiz, as we call the interrogations because it was easier to say and to tap brought back message that Nixon is crazy, man. We don't know what happens now. But we had in our camp One South Vietnamese prisoner and three Thai prisoners who were allowed out to work and do things. And of course they were speaking the language and they were, they were really our intelligence. And we got a heads up that 209 was the number literally we're going to be moved out of camp. And sure enough, about a week later, 209 of us were moved right up to the Chinese border deep in the mountains and a camp that we thought initially was new to us. We learned later on that others had been there. I heard I was probably who? I don't know, but we spent the rest of the of 72' there, and over the winter and in October we didn't have radios in each cell there. They didn't have power like we had back in the big prison, we had this little radios in each room and you got this propaganda broadcast. Hanoi, Hannah, we called it the voice of Vietnam. All the garbage up here, they had to do it by quizzes. And one of the fellows that went early picked up. They were asking him, what do you think about this proposed end of the war, whatever this is in early October? And then I was called out right the end of October and he asked me, he said, are you disappointed there was no settlement in October. I said, you know, I didn't know there were going to be one, so how can I be disappointed for something I didn't know was going to happen? Wasn't going to happen anyway and kind of went on with that. And then over Christmas and holiday and New Year's, it got really cold and we were settling in and all of us were looking to be there in the winter and one night, the building I was in up top of the hill, one of the fellows woke us up and he said we just had three trucks come into camp, so we all stayed up and we counted 17 trucks. We don't need that many to bring in a month's load of food. Something is up. And the guards came around that morning and let us out to go out to to eat or to shave, whatever we're going to do. We had a little area, kind of old patio we could get out to in our building and he leans, he looks around at one of the other guys and he does this and then he comes back like that. Something is really up here. So we went back in and just so we didn't miss out on it, we all started rolling up our gear. That afternoon when the guard came around and opened it up and he gives us this, which was a signal to roll up, ready to move, we just all leaned over, patted our roll. He got a big smile on his face and right after dark they loaded us on the trucks, headed back to Hanoi, and about halfway down mid afternoon we stopped and had a little coffee break. They gave us water and little energy bars, coconut bar stuff and Instead of getting back on the truck necessary to your own, they divided us out in four categories and what turned out to be the first two release groups went back to the big prison. The third release group went to one we called the plantation and the 4th one went to the zoo. And excuse me (clears throat). We'd been back about a week and I was at the plantation in the third group. They called us out one afternoon we lined up. And the camp commander came over and he read us the protocol from the Paris Treaty that that in itself required that the prisoners be notified within 48 hours of this date. And they told it. And they stood there for a few minutes waiting for us to do something. And when we didn't, they said, okay dismissed. And we all. File back into our own little cells and then we went over hugging each. So God, I hope it's true. Hope it's true. And in my particular case, I was pulled out and taken up to Hoa Lo. Turns out that after the first release group, there was a little difference of opinion between oh and the conditions for release were that everybody would be released in four equal increments over the next 60 days. So the and with the sick and wounded being released first. Well, the U.S. expected that to be: release the sick and wounded then four more increments. The Vietnamese interpreted be the second wounded would be in the first increment. So they had a little hassle about that and somehow they came up and released 20 guys just pulled, almost at random came out. So as that was going on, I was pulled up to the second release group. Then they decided no, the count didn't wear. So I went back to the plantation and then they pulled me out again. And whatever the problem was, we were supposed to be released on the 1st of March and the camp commander came in and we had the big going away thing, special dinner, blah blah blah on the night last night in February. And then he told us he said maybe you do not go tomorrow, there is small problem. I will let you know. So the next morning he comes in and said I don't think so today and at night he said maybe tomorrow and then by March the 3rd, oh to hell with it. I hope somebody got out of here anyway and he came in that night and he says I think tomorrow okay and sure enough the next morning he comes in and came in. There was a group called the. I forget the exact name, but they were an Indian, a Canadian, a Czech and another Soviet Union type had to come around and inspect everybody. So they came through. We figured I think we might make it today, and sure enough about an hour later we started going out. We got our go home clothes it would've been fitted for. We would have to pick them up, put them on and they walked us out the front gate and they had their little 20 seat buses out there and we all got on and headed over to the Gia Lam for the big trip home. Well, we got out there. as we pulled out onto the ramp that I saw that 141 out there. Of course working out there. My neighbor at at Craig had gotten out of the Air Force and was test pilot on a 141 and I'd walked out into one just before I left to go to Southeast Asia. And I saw that airplane, the United States from America, and that big flag up there. And I told a lot of people when I walked down and walked up that ramp I could smell the red clay out of North Georgia. I knew I was going home. Is that just an expression, or did you really feel like you smelled? I started feeling like I'm headed home, yeah. Well, the the one question I want to ask you the the penultimate next to the last is a lot of things changed for you while you were a prisoner. You found out about losing your father and losing other family members and your wife and again, I you know, if you don't mind my asking, what sustained you through that? Well, I had premonitions or or indications, I guess you'd say on both. I only got two letters from my wife and I are there, and there were six lines, but she only used about four of them. So all she just said was the children are fine, they help a lot. Another one was I moved to Atlanta to go to Emory and the children doing well. You could almost read into it the indifference. And in the case of my dad the one thing that I got from my mother was a birthday card was signed Love Mother. And that was probably one of the really low points when I realized he was gone because I was looking forward to to seeing him. I knew he was in bad shape when I left but I was looking forward to going back and seeing him again and So when I got there to Clark, we've been there, I don't know, three or four hours and they came around, got me, said there's a Colonel up here wants to see you. And he introduced himself from from 13th Air Force Headquarters. And we're standing in the doorway to the little ward area that I was in and I looked up and technician that I didn't see me around was leaned up to the desk up here about 20-30 feet. I don't know why I turned around. There's another technician back standing around over here. This is not going to be a standard conversation. What is it? So he started out casually, told me about my aunt dying and my uncle dying and my father-in-law dying. And then your father died, and then your wife got a divorce. And as I've described it, it wasn't a surprise. It was the shock of confirmation. The things I was hoping weren't true, but I had a sense, and it's kind of ironic when I learned about more detail about my wife's divorce, when I was up in the mountains and I hadn't gotten anything, heard anything, I went to a quiz and I asked an officer whom I'd known from way back at the zoo. I said I hadn't heard anything from my wife in a long time. I said I'm I'm wondering if maybe something has happened. He said no, I think everything's fine. And I said, well, I said I would really like to know. I don't want my children to be in Hurting or having any problem, they said Okay, I ask. And several months later I went to quiz with him again and they said I asked. He said I think everything Okay. As it turns out, that first quiz was within a week of when she filed for the divorce and the second one was within a week of when it was granted and they had sent it over, sent the paperwork to Hanoi to Camp de pension And since I didn't reply within 30 days, I wasn't contesting it. Well, I was still going through the checkout down at Maxwell Air Force Place in Montgomery, AL. But my mother wanted to get the family together at home and visit. And so I came up and flew up commercially and my ex-wife was here in town at the time. She came out and picked me up at the airport and went over to her house and we were talking. I was going to take my children out with me for this party. And we were sitting there talking. And she said How you plan on getting to Bremen. I said Oh, gosh. Well, it hadn't crossed my mind. Oh, well, I'll rent a car. Oh, no, no I guess I Can't do that. I don't have a driver's license. Why I didn't think of riding the bus, I don't know, because that'd been right off the bat. I thought, well, maybe Pat will rent me an airplane because I had a pilot's license commercial license and I wasn't thinking the fact that you got to have a medical to make it effective but she so you better do something. So just it's getting kind of late if you're going out there tomorrow. So I called him up. I don't know I guess I looked him up at phone book. I got him at home and I said hey you got any airplane you might run out tomorrow? He says what for. I said well I need to get out to Bremen with me and the children. Then he said when you want to go? And I said, oh, sometime mid morning or so tand he says hold on a minute, looked around and he said, &quot;how's about 10:00&quot;? Would that be good? 10:30? And I said, yeah, it'd be fine. So he said, well you how to get out to my place? And I said, yeah, he said, all right, I'll see you then. So we come driving up out here and turns out he had a demonstration set up for a Hope for a sale. With a King Air, I think it was anyways about a 8 to 10 place airplane and this company, people were here and they were really nice welcomed us in and said yeah, we'll be glad that they gave me a ride out to West Georgia Airport and my brother was there to pick me up, but Pat and I've laughed about that a lot of time. Those six years of your life that you gave literally gave to this country And all that happened to you what? What would you say to young people? Or what? What would you, if you could get them all to pay attention to you for the next minute? What would you say? Well, first I would say that I'm proud of my service at the time I was there. I honestly believed that we were doing something that needed to be done because the threat of communism and the expansion of China and their efforts to particularly in in Asia and in Southeast Asia. Could have had very difficult future and while we did not win, and unfortunately I think I have to say we we gave, we actually did win the combat. Our politicians gave it away later on, but we did accomplish a a stalemate so to speak and I think we've stopped that expansion. Gave those countries a chance to get on a little firmer basis as far as Vietnamese people. I was disappointed for them. The boat people that's that many were killed and are died in the process of getting out of there and in Cambodia that were literally killed during the Pol Pot regime. I don't think we can take any pride at all in allowing that to happen, but when we finally started recognizing the Vietnamese, I was asked by one of the local stations, &quot;what do you think about it with the trade and then the recognition&quot;? I said we're going over there to give them a chance for self determination and it looks like they're finally going to get it. And on the two trips I've made back over there, I think we really did win hearts and minds because they really like Americans there now. But for the status now and the condition in the future of this country. I have real concern. The last few years, the mood of the country, the culture of the country, society have changed in ways that I cannot say that I feel proud about. But I do talk to enough young people who have good attitudes and good patriotic values that I'm optimistic. That they will rise to the top and be the cream of the crop and we'll get this country back on track someday.