- Maybe you've seen this warning lately. It's not good, especially And... But how hot is too hot? Action. There was only one way to find out. Put some phones under a And 137 degrees. And there's the screen. Please do not do this at but mainly, heat is really And well, you may have heard. - You know, the heat is not backing off. - And that heat is not going away. - Heat. - And combine that environmental heat with processor intensive tasks and even fast charging and the phone temps So why do batteries hate heat? And what temperature triggers the warning? And is there anything you can do about it? And is having a mini phone fan cool? All right, let's heat up some phones and answer those questions. Okay, first thing to answer, why is heat so bad for batteries? This is a lithium ion battery I'll spare you the chemistry class, but there's a complicated that occurs during As you increase the temperature, the speed of that chemical that can cause the battery to drain faster and the actual battery components and capacity to degrade over time. You can check the status of your iPhone or Android phone's battery But how hot is too hot 95 degrees seems to be the magic number according to Apple and Android Apple specifically says here to ambient temperatures higher can permanently damage battery capacity. But that doesn't mean your about overheating at 95 degrees. I decided to test it myself and Samsung Galaxy S23 I took the temperature readings with this FLIR thermal camera and an external thermometer as a backup. The first test was just the The alert popped up on the iPhone after baking for seven just as the front of hit 137 degrees. On the Samsung, an alert was too warm about seven minutes But unlike Apple's warning, Samsung's doesn't limit It just limits usage of The second test, I wanted to know if fast charging which would make the temperature rise faster. So I ran the experiment while with this special cord that With both the iPhone and the Samsung, the phones just slowed the charging speed as they got warmer. Oh wait, now it's going Both phones had their alerts pop up around the same temperature, Ow, very hot. Very, very hot. And then there was the final test, recording some video This really sped up the heat because recording video is a The phone is at about 135 degrees, and with the video playing, it happened in under five minutes. So what can you do about all this? Well, don't put your but sometimes heat happens. So here are some ideas that I tested. Number one, buy a bag. I bought this $19 thermal bag on Amazon. I put the phones in it and then put it under the light and... - [Colleague] Oh, no, it's smoking. - Okay, yeah, it is, it is. The thermal bag hit 302 degrees and we thought, &quot;Let's stop this.&quot; The phone totally cool, totally The maker of the bag, a did not respond to my request for comment. I did try this $30 bag from a company called and it didn't smoke and So yeah, I'd go with that one. Number two, limit fast charging and cases. Apple and Android phone to balance fast charging And honestly, I'd say the is better than babying your battery. But if you want to slow down, go back to this tiny charging Samsung lets you turn off Apple also suggests removing phone cases since they can generate Some Android phones are designed to better handle fast charging though. This OnePlus 10T has so it can charge from zero Number three, try a fan. Obviously, that bag doesn't work if you wanna use your phone. So I tried Razer's $60 phone cooler chroma which attaches back here. The only problem with it needs to be plugged in. Still, I was blown away at No temperature warning on this side. It has been under the Look, the good news is battery damage isn't gonna just happen from that one time you left but your battery is and heat will only speed that up. So stay... There's only one place It's not a rave, it's a land party.