In today's video I'm going to take you through than 30 epic life hacks and DIYs that will Check them out! Hey guys! Today I'm sharing with you my hands down most And I'm not just going to show you what I to bed, I also included more than 30 amazing life for sure. So make sure you're subscribed to my channel Here I am - on my way home, burning my fingers Luckily there's a great hack to save us! - Let's make a mug cozy! Cut the top part of your sock like this and This won't just protect your fingers from or hot chocolate warm for much longer. On top of that mug cozies look so pretty and They make any hot drink 100% more cozy and OK let's continue our way home! Oh, just got to take care of that shoelace There we go, come on now, it's getting late. Argh, stupid shoe-laces! They just won't cooperate today. This hack is pretty straightforward and I've All you have to do is to tie them twice. Here's how I tie my shoes normally, making Now take the two loops and tie them again. Voila! The shoelaces will never get untied by themselves Finally I am home! Well almost... I just have to find the right annoying key Instead of losing precious time testing all this hack! Take a bunch of nail polish in different colors. Apply one or two layers of nail polish on key. Here I chose pink. If you want to make your colored keys extra polish on top. I'm using a chunky silver glitter polish to Try to use very different, contrasting colors distinguish them. It looks especially gorgeous if you apply the contrast it just pops so much more! Here I went for orange and I also applied This hack is so useful because now you can But besides being super practical I think Especially the glittery and confetti ones I can't believe I lived so many years with most beautiful keys in the world. This DIY life hack is pure genius - you The first thing that I do as soon as I get Literally the second I step through that door Today I'm wearing a soft cotton shirt and Super snugly. For my dinner I decided to put together a Kale is very tasty and extremely healthy but be stringy and hard to chew. The trick is to use a bit of oil and massage Just scrunch and squeeze your kale 3 or 4 Let's also add some cherry tomatoes - I routine and as you can see it doesn't only It's a great way to cut your tomatoes as well! Just one swipe and you have perfect tomato Next time you are buying avocados make sure If that part looks dark and browny - stay If the part under the stem is bright and green the inside as well! How many times have you bought a nicely looking it's all brown and slimy? I've been there a few times but it's not happening I like to season my salad with lemon juice. Always roll the lemon before cutting it. Now you can simply squeeze it or even better Stick the sprayer into your lemon and you This hack is just so cool and it really works You can use it on your salad, fruit or you water to give it a better taste! You can have your lemon spray ready in the Time to dig into this yummy salad! I normally eat a bigger cooked meal for lunch, lighter. To be honest I'm eating all the time throughout Literally every two hours I get myself a snack OK, next hack is quite hilarious but very into your eye and you can't get it out. Just take a bucket full of water and dip Blink a few times and voila! The eyelash that was stuck in my eye got flushed But sadly - so did my makeup!!! And since I'm going to the gym later, I'm hacks. First off, use a waterproof concealer only allover the face. Foundation can start melting when you're sweating, for sure! A great hack to make your eyeshadow waterproof is by using eyedrops! Drip a drop of that liquid on the brush to Load the brush with eyeshadow and apply on The eyeshadow will have a much better payoff making it way more long lasting. Check out how well this hack works with a Look at this difference, it's insane! If you don't have a waterproof mascara, don't Apply your normal mascara as you usually would. Then take a hairspray, close your eyes - that's Alternatively you can spray some hair spray with it. You can also use it to put your brows in place Now let's make our own DIY waterproof liner! Take your waterproof eyeshadow primer and hand or into a little pot. Grab food coloring and mix it with the primer. I love this hack because it allows you to went for blue. Take an eyeliner brush and get that cat eye Food coloring is seriously such an epic ingredient waterproof. Check out this crazy awesome eyeliner! I Love it! Lastly we're going to make a DIY lip and cheek Mix some face primer with - surprise, surprise Dip your finger into that mixture and apply You'll get an instant waterproof lip tattoo. Do the same on the cheeks to give them a nice Just blend well and we're off to the gym! I don't usually wear makeup when I work out, want your makeup to be extra long lasting. Whether you're having a sports day at school, humid climate. OK, what?! Tell me that didn't just happen?! Great just great! Why me!? I hate everything! OK, calm down. All we need is some WD 40! If you get a gum stuck on your shoe all you it will get right off. No need to stress out because there's a life Lately I've been trying to work out at least to enjoy it. I like to do 30 to 40 minute HIIT workouts I prefer going for a walk, hiking or cycling. But today I decided to hit the gym and I actually I'm totally not a professional here so I just in a nice combination of cardio and abs workout, It's recommended to be active at least half and running with your dog, skating, surfing, The important thing is that you are enjoying That's why I decided to jump into the pool I did a little bit of swimming back and forth So I rather took advantage of the fact that If you are trying to get more active and fit, Working out doesn't only mean running on a Go to the pool with your friends, play football, Just get out and have fun. You'll will feel so much better plus it's Time to head home! Oh, it got a bit chilly outside, let's zip Ugh, seems like today it's just not my day! Luckily WD 40 is here to save us again. If your zipper is getting stuck and is not There we go - the zipper works as new! Thanks to the nail polish hack I showed you opens my front door! The first thing I do when I get back home Ouch, that hurt! If your slippers are too slippery like mine, on the soles. This will give your slippers a good grip. That's better, I really don't want to risk Now it's time for food! I made these healthy bounty bars the day before In a bowl put a cup of coconut cream, a cup of honey. Mix well until all the ingredients are nicely Place the mixture on a parchment lined baking an even thin layer. Now it's time to cut that goodness into smaller as big or as little as you like. When you're done cutting, place the baking so that the bars harden. Meanwhile, we can melt some chocolate using You can use any chocolate of choice, but if choosing dark chocolate. Mine is 86% kakao and I love it! Time to take our coconut bars out of the freezer! Grab the first piece and dip it in the melted Roll it back and forth and then place it on Do this with all the coconut bars. Roll them in the melted chocolate and leave You can store your healthy bounty bars in will last you many days. Besides these delicious coconut bars I'm also But you know when you open a fresh pack of a glass, more often than not milk will end But there's actually a super easy trick to All you have to do is turn the milk or juice This way there will always be the opening smoothly pouring the milk out. That's better, no mess at all! My bars look kinda boring... these glittery You won't believe how easy they are to make. Place a toothpick onto a parchment paper. Take a glue gun and draw a star or any other Fill the inside with hot glue as well. Next you need to take some glitter and while sparkly glitter. Wait for the glue to cool down and harden How gorgeous! I also had to make one using blue glitter, me happy. I love how easy and quick these cake decorations are to make! You can be creative and make so many different letters... whatever you desire! They look so great on cupcakes, cakes or on I would totally stick these into the mash We know that presentation is important so Anyhow, the bounty bars taste so delicious I have a very sweet tooth - I need to have But I try to keep my snacks as healthy as Quick and easy to make, super tasty and good Alright, my tummy is happy now it's time to I made this epic DIY bath bomb myself and glittery and bubbly. In a big bowl put 1 cup of baking soda, half acid and half a cup of Epsom salt. Mix these ingredients together until they Add 3 table spoons of any oil of your choice, Next distribute the mixture into separate I'm making four different colors so I have To color up your bath bomb mixtures, take My first color is green. Little by little start pouring that green because you don't want it to fizz away too We're saving all the baubles for our bath, Here comes the best part - adding glitter! Oh yeah! You can skip it but you know - me and glitter Here I'm making the orange mixture. Mixing the orange food coloring with some Let's add some glitter and my orange mixture I also made a pink and blue bath bomb mixtures. All of these are looking fantastic so it's I have a heart and a bauble shaped molds and Fill both mold halves with your colorful mixtures. I decided to go for layers of colors but you Pat the mixture down really well with a spoon Quickly press both halves together and there How beautiful it turned out with all the different I also made a heart shaped one, which looks Leave them to set for a day or two and then You can also use silicon cupcake molds to Just fill them with your bath bomb mixture Then you can simply pop them out of the mold most beautiful bath ever! Let's pop them into a glass of water to see Wow, so cool right! Look at all these baubles and glitter popping I absolutely love how these bath bombs turned Store bought bath bombs can be so expensive especially if you buy the ingredients in bulk! Alright, let's now get a real bath! My bauble bath bomb actually split in half It actually looks even better because now See how out of this world amazing it looks Wow it's like a magical rainbow galaxy explosion! Completely mesmerizing. I seriously can't get enough watching this, just want to quickly show you the heart bath This one sank to the bottom and formed an baubles on the water surface. Wow, can't get over how fascinating this is!! OK, my bath is all ready and silky smooth! To make it fun I decided to throw in a bunch This is a major throwback! You know all the slime bath challenges and lately... well this is a kids bath challenge! I must say it's really fun, I should do that Oh this frog didn't want to turn into a prince, All jokes aside, while having a bath I like And these ones I actually made myself. Here's how you can make your own! First we're going to make our DIY glass stain All you need is to mix all purpose glue with How simple right?! Stir these two ingredients well to get an Optionally you can also add some glitter and lot of blue glitter. Mix well to evenly distribute it throughout I want to have a heart shape opening on my If you want to color your entire candle, you I am so happy that I learned a way to make Glass paints in stores are super expensive! Where I live, they cost almost 10 dollars But we ain't paying that much no, no! You can use these paints to paint any glass My candle is completely covered in blue so If the edges are not perfect, don't stress You can clean them up with a q-tip soaked I also want to make a red candle, so here pink glitter! At first your paint looks opaque, but when Here are my finished candles and I think they They provide such a cozy dimmed colored light I also love how the glitter reflects the flame, These candles are a perfect decoration, whether or your night stand. While I'm in the tub I like to just relax and brainstorm some video ideas or read a book. Keeping it in line with the kids bath challenge Also how flipping cool are these bookmarks! To make your own you need a binder clip and Apply two blobs of glue on the clip. While the glue is still hot place one googly These may just be the easiest and most epic They are perfect for school or reading and Reading kids' books is such an epic way to Suddenly you forget about all your everyday After taking a bath or a shower it's time Today I went for some over-knee socks, the To take the makeup off I'm using my DIY makeup Grab any kind of a jar. Fill it with cotton pads. Then take your favorite makeup remover or that the cotton pads get nicely soaked. Put the lid on and you have your DIY makeup I think this hack is genius as it saves you your makeup off. I got a very sensitive skin and store bought So this DIY is perfect for me as I can use pads, and I know my skin will love them. After taking my makeup off I wash my face Keeping my skincare routine as simple as possible Lastly, I slap on my favorite moisturizer I decided to make myself some herbal tea and is this panda mug! And you know what's the best part? You can make one too! Take a plain white mug and sketch your design If you're good at free hand drawing then feel Now take a black porcelain marker and simply I like to leave two white dots in each eye anime inspired. Let's give this baby some rosy cheeks using We should not forget about the cute little Lastly I'm drawing a small red heart in the so much! How easy it is to transform an inexpensive You can draw so many different designs for friends and family. It literally took me 5 minutes to make one My new favorite mug for sure! Ah, the best part of day is to cozy up on I'm adding some honey to make my tea sweeter. Did you know that if you're stirring your You should stir it back and forth like that. This way the ingredients incorporate way quicker If you are impatient like me and drink your a solution to your burned tongue. Dip your tongue in some sugar and it will Mm feels so nice and tastes great to! In the evenings I really like having that Sometimes I'll edit and work on my videos, internet, watching YouTube videos and chatting tea or chocolate. If I'm not too tired from the long day I like Today I decided to go for a beautiful frosty Start by applying a base coat to all the nails Take a creamy light blue shade and apply one a fully opaque result. Most of the time I just keep my nails in one a bit more special. Dip a striper or a small paint brush in a shimmery Apply this color mostly on the tip of the When there's only little color left on the This way you create a gradient where the color the light blue going up. You can even dip the brush into the shimmery tips to really get it really opaque there. Now it's time to take some chunky silver glitter This step will really bring the design together Last but not least apply a layer of a fast that lovely shine! That's it - the nails were so quick and I really like how bold and sparkly they are You can make a design like this in any color darker shade and some chunky glitter! I got to try the pink combination, I bet it OK, the nails are all done looking rather I head to the bathroom to brush my teeth. After that I take my DIY lash serum, which I'm not even kidding, it's a magic product! To make it you have to fill half of the bottle using a syringe to do that. Lastly add some almond oil into the bottle I've been using this serum every night for Lashes start growing much thicker and fuller. I've never tried lash extensions and I find I much prefer natural remedies like this. You can also use this serum for your eyebrows Works wonders! Before I go to bed I switch on this gorgeous I made myself. You need a cheap lamp shade, artificial flowers This DIY is super straightforward - simply on a flower. Continue doing this until you cover the entire Why would you pay a lot of money for a fancy it turns out that pretty?! I only paid 4 dollars for my plain lamp and Plus no store bought lamp could ever be so something that you made with your own hands. This is why i like DIYing - It gives so Before falling asleep I always check my social amazing edits you guys are making! You are so talented it blows my mind! If you're like me and sometimes have trouble Try this hack: blink very fast for about 30 Tired eyes make you feel really sleepy so already sleep like a baby. End your day with a smile, a happy thought So I hope you guys enjoyed my night routine, which you were requesting so much for over a year. I know it took me a bit long to make it, but So give the video a big thumbs up if you liked do you want me to film next. Thank you so much for watching guys, I'm sending soon. Bye! Before you fall asleep tonight think of all a smile for tomorrow. Sweet dreams my loves! Bloopers