It takes a couple of attempts, but hold it up steadily in front of your woody smell fills the room and drifts out You blink, steady yourself, inhale deeply, But what happens next? Chemically speaking, little green plant that gets millions of people humanity been consuming it? And what exactly To start, let's have a look at the chemical rolled up in a joint in your hand. Native to today is so popular it has now grown to be a rural farming operations all the way through to weed farms somewhere in the middle, experts strains of cannabis currently on the market, Being able to identify which strain of weed buying from a legal dispensary, but if marijuana is still criminalized, being smoking becomes much more difficult. Looking do you know where in the world it's Let's break it down a bit, You have likely heard of the two most These are cannabidiol and tetrahydrocannabinol, the last ten years, in the West in particular, breakthrough. It has been shown to have dispositions and is currently being tested as muscle spasticity, and more. You may have seen claiming that it can solve a number of results do vary. In the case of curing cancer, for that CBD has any kind of effect on the disease, So you smoke CBD and get high, right? No. on its own, will not get you high. meaning it alters your mental state, typically The feeling of being high comes from THC. Typically found in much greater quantities effect. To see what that means in practice, Take in a deep breath of that joint In this example, you're going to be our test is one of the most direct and quickest ways to burning marijuana contains high levels of THC. At this point, you may experience some irritation introducing an alien substance into your lungs. as you're likely to see the same from people The lungs are designed to quickly and efficiently breathe. Therefore, they have the capacity to and get any number of elements or compounds The lungs aren't just empty chambers; called alveoli. The average human adult has constituting about 1500 miles of airways. to New Hampshire for our American viewers viewers. For everyone else, it's roughly Anyway, back to your lungs. In each alveolus, the THC from the smoke is transferred directly into your bloodstream, including to the critical area: your brain. of seconds for the user to start to feel the So, let's crack your head open and see what's The THC and CBD bind themselves to receptors is responsible for anxiety, emotional responses, the brain, but the THC component can stimulate it. others can feel a heightened particularly on the 'comedown' as the Looking at other parts of the brain impacted which is involved with motor control and planning, and the cerebellum which is the center of motor by smoking weed, resulting in you feeling information takes more time to be processed, Driving under the influence of marijuana can be found that fatal accidents are 1.65 times more influence of marijuana, while another study four times as likely. Most countries have of weed with zero tolerance policies, made 48 hours for weed to stop showing up on a it can be up to 72 hours. Urine and it can even be tested in your hair you won't find many traffic cops that are plucking However, it would be reductive to think that all active component that stimulates a lot of neural music sounds more rich and layered. Food often giving the subject the illusion that they're many people using cannabis experience the famous your home is potentially extremely dangerous to Many people report having heightened imagination, being able to think outside of the box Artists all throughout history have partaken their horizons. The dulling of a lot of negative coupled with this stimulation from In short, you, our human test But what does this high actually look like? Here's where it gets really interesting. Let's So far, we have only focused on THC and components within cannabis, which vary which of the hundreds of strains the user is of consumption. While smoking or vaping gets the high only lasts around 3 hours or so. Many cookies. When weed is absorbed through the longer time to kick in, but when it does, the even up to a day, as the digestive system slowly All of this makes studying the as with almost any study, there are the how the test subject is ingesting The human brain is an incredibly complex thing that was the size of just one grain of neurons and 1 billion synapses. Now, multiply just like the one that's sitting in your smug about itself. Being able to quantify and far more advanced and complicated than the challenge in medical science for decades and will While one individual might take one puff and their elderly grandma might smoke a So, for nanna's sake, is it dangerous? Well, on the whole, consuming marijuana is driving, controlling heavy machinery, the risks of smoking the occasional in it are low. So why hasn't it been are there still skeptics out there, As is often the case with controversial topics, a lot of the conflict comes from To tell that whole story, we need to wind where we find the first recorded use of the cannabis plant was being used for considered by many to be the grandfather of as being particularly useful. From that point, Syria, Greece, and Rome. Various healing years, including cures for inflammation, Of course, most early medicine is notoriously and milk transfusions - but there has always plant that's captured the attention of doctors Often, there is a grain of truth to the mythology for example, the God Shiva is given the title food. For centuries, many Hindus believed it was the god's hot breath of anger upon be given a quantity of cannabis to consume and your fever would pass. With modern the hypothalamus in the brain, reducing the body's So, where did it all go wrong for weed's the West now include cannabis in the same as opposed to paracetamol and penicillin? Well, medical marijuana was first introduced in an Irish physician who had spent years studying the real origins of the USA's problem with in the Jamestown colony in 1605. Dissatisfied the English, and King James I Colony change up the crop they produced to The crop was a massive success and became colonial settlements. George Washington three primary crops on Mount Vernon. The fabrics, but following William Brooke Americans began to experiment with The USA was still in relative infancy, with many at the time involved labeling products as being only if prescribed by a pharmacist. Even then, the with some issuing it with the poison status and At the time, opium dens were rife across hashish parlors popped up in which people would these establishments were seen as quite frequenting them. It's estimated that there were The laws needed to be strengthened further drug industry, with many falsely labeling their that these restrictions got, the more people newly established Food and Drug Administration of the American public, who were looking to skirt to get their highs. In the move to close these many of the much more addictive, much more harmful The solution that the American government recreational drug use, including the Prohibition which at the time they were spelling with an 'H'. In 1971, President Nixon coined the term 'war 'Public Enemy number one' of the American people. Possession, distribution, and consumption of It's estimated that throughout its war on drugs, its endevour to "clean up its streets." To give each Canadian citizen $1,416.67 per year neighbors. Alternatively, they could give one A large amount of this campaign against drugs has lot of false information swirling around the world "It rots the brain and causes psychosis, it is a gateway drug to stronger and more But is there truth to any of these Firstly, no, marijuana does not rot the brain. bacteria and fungi consume it. That simply doesn't more contested field with evidence for both sides a term that is thrown around a lot, especially in meaning a lot of people attach their own Psychosis is when someone loses contact with that their brain is painting does not surrounding them. The two main symptoms of and it is important to know A hallucination is when a person experiences commonly, this takes the form of hearing voices things that aren't really there. In some cases, tasting their hallucinations, too, such as tasting A delusion, on the other hand, is more you're being followed or that there is a Delusional people are often highly susceptible messaging chimes with the fearful delusions So, does marijuana cause Let's go back to the chemicals we're going to need to crack THC is highly psychoactive; that is being high comes from. While CBD can decrease it's often present in much mainly as many cannabis farms compete with one Couple that with the fact that there are hundreds and it goes back to our earlier point about this many scientists rely on quite broad studies, taking large sample sizes of drug users and of their brains over time, looking most What they have found is there is often a link are cases of people living with schizophrenia of marijuana is linked to the onset of however, is that weed was the cause. in some cases, accelerate the development The brain is a very complex and delicate thing. then the consumption of drugs that alter their certain sections of the brain can naturally Schizophrenia is believed while bipolar disorder affects one in 100. they are not insignificant. THC does carry the are genetically predisposed to having very low and won't affect the majority of Next, is it a gateway drug? The experience of a chemical buzz in the brain our lives. You get up and sing in a concert it. You do it a second time, and the high has and a bigger crowd, until suddenly you're in a of bigger and better high is an experience Studies have shown that in a minority of Usage of the drug can prime the brain, ready This sounds bad until you realize that the same of those demonstrate a similar connection to being So why are those not held up One thing studies have shown is that there is trauma. A difficult childhood, experiencing abuse, and going through acute pain and suffering are all dependence on hard substances. Weed is often it seems to be a symptom more But is it addictive? Let's take a similar look at this question. so you make yourself a cup of helps you focus on your job, and gives day's work. So the next day, you do Until one day, you've run out of coffee. You gathers over your head. You go to work have a headache by lunchtime, and come home Well, the human brain is incredibly flexible. caffeine each day that it's now rebalanced the boost. It's ready and waiting. So when the boost The same thing happens with weed. If you your brain is going to be sitting there at in anticipation. Coming off weed now feels hard. don't have it, struggle to fall asleep, lose For about two weeks. Then, That's because what we've described here isn't can be broken fairly quickly. Up to 30% of weed and it can be overcome by just taking an That said, there is a small risk of long-term that are still developing. They are still growing Smoking weed regularly at this stage in your around the expectation that it will be receiving a dependence could grow to be much more deeply If there's one thing you learn from this is complicated. There may not always be a who tells you that something is totally be lying. Even ice cream has downsides. What Is weed the devil's leaf that spells the end But neither is it a miracle cure-all drug Now watch "What Does Heroin Do To Your