This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries by using the link in the description. This is the largest American helicopter. But back in 1971, this is what the Soviet A helicopter so large, it baffled observers. Because it could carry nearly two hundred power that still stand to this day. But after returning to the Soviet Union, the In the Soviet Union, the helicopter emerged A machine that could go where no other machine regions that were once virtually inaccessible. And in a country as vast as the Soviet Union, By 1960, the Soviets were building some of helicopters in the world. But at the height of the Cold War, the need become a matter of national security. By 1960, American spy planes were beginning Ballistic Missiles. For years, the Soviets had been hiding their deep in the remote wilderness. But the only way to move heavy first-generation And it meant building a rail line out to each The Americans soon learned that to find the the rail lines. Keeping nuclear missiles hidden was a matter So the Soviets devised a bold plan. Instead of using trains or roads, they'd If helicopters could deploy missiles deep impossible for American spy planes to spot But in 1960, even the largest helicopter in to lift a 25 ton ballistic missile. The Soviets would need to design a new helicopter before it. One option was to take what was already the and scale it up. Enlarging the Mi-6's fuselage so that it But a larger helicopter would also require larger rotor. To save development time, another option was the Mi-6, but use two sets of them. It was a configuration that had already been But the approach wouldn't work for soviet In a tandem configuration, exhaust from the airflow to the aft engines. The solution would be to arrange the rotors set of wings. This would allow engineers to reuse the Mi6's build a truly enormous helicopter. They would designate the prototype as the The enormous machine would end up looking inversely tapered wings supporting the two To keep the helicopter stable, the rotor blades out reaction torque. During hover, directional control was achieved And at higher speeds, the V-12's large tailplane Operating the giant machine required a crew With a pilot, co-pilot and flight engineer radio operator and electrical engineer on The V-12's enormous cargo hold could carry into a civilian transport with seating for But the V-12's primary role would be to And the first step would be to load ICBMs of kilometers to remote landing strips. From there, the missiles would be transferred crew and equipment to locations hundreds of With more than 12 million square kilometers spy planes would be searching for a needle When the V-12 appeared at the 1971 Paris Airshow, Including lifting an incredible 44 tones of The equivalent weight of 25 mid size cars. Western observers could only speculate as expecting hundreds to be pressed into service. In reality, by 1971, impressing the west was the giant machine. Developing the V-12 had taken the better part in 1959 and the official go ahead given in But construction of the first prototype didn't flight occurring three years later. A machine this large comes with compromises. And engineers had to work through numerous But the biggest problem was that by 1971, The Amercians launched the first spy satellite And in a single day it could photograph more missions combined, making it far more difficult And by the 1970s, the Soviets were developing fit on trucks, which could evade reconnaissance The V-12 was just too large and cumbersome There were just too few scenarios that called in a single helicopter. In 1974, development of the V-12 was ended after only two prototypes had been built. With many technical problems still unresolved, a new heavy-lift helicopter with a more conventional Soviet Engineers weren't afraid to think under development, engineers over at the MiG To turn a MiG-25 into the world's fastest and missiles for a passenger cabin. You can learn more about this crazy Soviet now, on Nebula. Nebula is a streaming platform I helped create creators, and it's where I'm experimenting Without having to worry about pleasing YouTube's Nebula is also where you can watch Mustard without advertisements or sponsor messages. It's also home to a growing number of original And a personal favourite of mine is the Logics An ongoing series produced by Brian from Real With high production values and indepth research,