So, Copilot in Excel recently got some updates with you. So, if you have Microsoft 365 and you have a the Home tab. The moment you select it, need to have AutoSave turned on to be able to use we are able to use it on our data. The first summarize text. If your data involves a lot of you know how time-intensive it is to read each here we have A1A Car Wash Reviews. Thumbs up if like &quot;Great place, super clean and fast service&quot; the owner is never reachable&quot; - negative. Problem mixed reviews like &quot;Good service, but I felt reviews like &quot;Not sure what the fuss is about; owner was barely around.&quot; Notice there around; the owner is never reachable. But right? If you had to read all of these reviews take a lot of time to decide what to do with this Copilot makes this process super easy. All we have your microphone and just speak the question. I'm do is summarize the reviews. Whenever you're word &quot;summarize&quot; in your prompt, and we're going formatted as an official Excel table, but Copilot data, finishing up, and here we have our summary. the cleanliness, fast service, and friendly staff. such as their car looking brand new and being express dissatisfaction with the service, prices, and difficulty finding the owner. Mixed acknowledging good service or clean cars rushed. Suggestions for Improvement: customers presence and more employees. General Impressions: you can copy this to the clipboard, paste it in want to dig deeper, you could ask it to, for This is going to give us more detail and more So, here we have things to improve: Owner Presence: Staffing Issues - understaffing is a common speed, and facility and equipment. Lots of great thing Copilot can do really well is show insights data for a fast food chain, and we quickly want to go to the box here, and just type in &quot;show me and I get &quot;Salary by Performance Rating -- Average rating here and the average salary. Well, that's so I'm going to select &quot;Can I see another hire date&quot; - that's the date the fast food if I like this insight, I can add it to the sheet, and I want to add all insights to the grid. I can just select the ones that I like the we have &quot;Owner has noticeably higher salary&quot; - okay, &quot;Frequency of salary,&quot; and down here we have &quot;For over time.&quot; This is pretty cool, and all we Adding formula columns is another thing Copilot we can see we have some predefined actions. get Copilot to suggest a formula column. it's pretty simple. We just have HR and performance rating. Now, what type of column suggesting adding a column for &quot;Years of Service.&quot; has been with the company. This is actually great. see the formula that it's using here. I can get a I can insert the column. But actually, I would so let's see if we can do that. I need understands what I mean. It seems like it does. YEARFRAC function. That's exactly what I need. going to insert it. I'm going to select this, Copilot can also look up values from sooner or later, you are going to need to learn do something like this. On a separate sheet roles and the department each role belongs in. which, notice, is on the left-hand side depending on the role the person has, we want look it up from the other table. Let's get it to create a column that shows the department information because it doesn't know at this point the department from the Department sheet. Let's the task done. Okay, so we have something. It is great. It's looking up C4 - that's my role here - and that's the range. That's great. I'm Now, let's move on to formatting. What if Let's say we have the suspicion that some I'm going to ask Copilot to highlight duplicate that. Looks like it can. Sure, here's one apply. The rule is for duplicate values, and want to change that - let's ask it to change understand what I want? Yeah, it's updated its I'm going to go ahead and apply this, automatically highlighted. Copilot has gone ahead Now, how about highlighting an entire formatting can get tricky when you want let's see if Copilot can do it for us. In is &quot;excellent,&quot; I want to highlight the whole row entire row where performance is &quot;excellent&quot; in formula inside conditional formatting, and this it, and now, wherever the performance rating Now, I think these are really exciting what you think. Let me know in the comments the most. Now, of course, knowing your you want to get the best results with your skills and invest in your skills, you which guide you through mastering Excel's find the link below this video. Thank you for