On August 21, 2007, the gaming landscape for Xbox 360 and Windows PC. With its and storyline all envisioned by developer Bioshock went on to be heralded as one of the that further explored the game's world. While with a fourth game being in development as a similar film adaptation at Netflix since take the "suggestion" of my audience to cover this Seeing as this wouldn't be a Suggestive Gaming let's get those out of the way. Luckily, two story-based DLCs, and two books, all and including in this video. However, I will be "Industrial Revolution" online materials that Infinite's launches, respectively. There were Bioshock 2 and Bioshock Infinite that have context since their canonicity is questionable, With that being said, 2007's Bioshock and 2010's while 2013's Bioshock Infinite takes place two narratives connect both thematically and intro section, but they are indeed separate I will cover the events of Rapture before looping be noted that due to the way the story of "Burial at Sea") unfolds, I'm going to slightly out of "chronological" order. Trust me, Now, without further ado, this is Our story begins in 1918, where we find a father Pyotr as the pair flee their home regime. During their escape, Andrei is cousin be executed by the Red Guard Upon arrival to the United States, the Rianofki's as "Andrew Ryan". Growing up, Ryan begins them for the goods of society while blaming the At some point, Ryan strikes his newfound wealth to become one of In 1945 in New York City, Andrew Ryan nuclear attacks on Hiroshima by his chief of end of civilization through atomic warfare, world free of government interference, Ryan wealth to build a "fortress dedicated to Ryan discovers a plumber named Bill McDonagh and hires him on as the building engineer and recruits Ruben Greavy, another engineer While Andrew and his crew work on Rapture in agencies attempt to uncover his plans. The Gorland" to look into the project, knowing whatever Ryan's involved in must require Ryan's plans somehow involve building a As Ryan continues his work on Rapture, an underwater city where his social experiment he begins to recruit the exceptional individuals artist Sander Cohen (along with one Irish brothers and architects Simon and Daniel Construction on Rapture and Frank Gorland continues poking around fisherman and smuggler named Frank Fontaine and the conman decides that the best way by supplying it. Gorland then meets Captain and his identity in the process. At this point, The next year, 1947, Ryan completes his grand on Alexandrian designs which houses a remote to the undersea city. Just before, however, as well as his decree for his free-market With the city's preliminary construction now those like-minded individuals to join Ryan's secretary (and Bill's fiance) Elaine, Cohen, Prentice Mill (who develops the "Atlantic Diane McClintock (Ryan's new personal assistant rule to the city's inhabitants: once you enter Meanwhile, Fontaine (or the man still fish to Ryan's project while obsessing the sea. After he is able to turn Fontaine's Ryan takes notice and sends Sullivan to personally go-getter entrepreneur) to live in Rapture. This Within Rapture, several businesses begin to founded by pharmaceuticals investor concerns about a new employee fearing that she's been conducting some beyond even his own loose morals, pointing to By 1949, Fontaine gets his Fontaine's Fisheries suspects that the boats going in and out of the and from the outside world, Fontaine assures Also that year, Elaine (now married to Bill) gets Suchong. Afterwards, Bill goes to leave about an "experiment". Bill investigates, and experimenting on a man inside a glass tube In 1950, about two years into Rapture's itself when he learns of rumblings of the infecting Ryan's utopia with the very "parasites" such as religious texts, also begin to pop up, To combat this, Ryan plans to start a new program train Rapture's citizens that wish to return real prison. This turns out to be Dr. Sofia experimentation, who opens her own clinic to Around this time, Tenenbaum falls out of Ryan's worker who had somehow miraculously regained that they had found a sea slug mixed in it somehow cured his paralysis. Tenenbaum Meanwhile, Sofia Lamb begins to realize likely fail eventually. She then begins take place in the event that Andrew Ryan The following year, Frank Fontaine calls as it turns out, has been behind the smuggled-in of distrust in Ryan to eventually overthrow him scientists to work on research for him; Suchong is while Tenenbaum is asked about her research in funding). The scientists agree to with Suchong requesting not only money, namely young children whose cells In 1953, Tenenbaum discovers a genetic material With ADAM, Tenenbaum is able to create serums, giving them new abilities. These abilities which is provided from a consumable substance also theorizes that while there's only a finite their own, if the parasitic slugs are implanted in By the next year, Fontaine opens "Fontaine production of ADAM and the Plasmid serums superhuman abilities from controlling fire, ice, Suchong works to get Plasmid users control over is a very real, and worrying possibility. Those minds to mutate, leaving them as deformed, violent Quickly, plasmids become wildly putting Fontaine in an extremely powerful extremely public power struggle between In 1955, Sofia Lamb's followers, create an explosive demonstration in a section warning. This act of defiance brings Lamb's and Ryan is forced to take her seriously. That Topside" accidentally discovers Rapture and finally grows frustrated and has "Johnny Lamb is then taken to "Persephone", a where Ryan sends those who threaten Rapture's as she knows her daughter will soon rise up, the undisclosed gulag. Sofia begins to work patients for experimentation. Unbeknownst the opportunity to indoctrinate creating sleeper agents and preparing As the threat of plasmid abuse and Ryan and his "Rapture Council" agree to attempt to regulate their use and get the growing Sander Cohen begins his own twisted Meanwhile, Fontaine continues to consolidate his growing wealth to open charity organizations. ostensibly to care for Rapture's orphans but Fontaine and Tenenbaum implant sea slugs "Little Sisters", who can rapidly produce ADAM. is placed in the care of singer Grace Holloway. property, Dionysus Park, has been trashed and to confront the man. Out of fear, Stanley captures In 1956, Ryan has an ongoing affair with with Sander Cohen. This leads to a pregnancy, Sometime in 1957, Dr Sofia Lamb enacts her grand her army of sleeper agents inside the prison walls ensuing riots, giving Sofia and her followers, Continuing his war with Ryan, Fontaine begins to of "Atlas". The underprivileged begin to grow resentful of Andrew Ryan's massive wealth way to gain control over Rapture would be men kill three of Ryan's constables in Meanwhile, Fontaine Futuristics focuses on that the day will come when he'll need to use work on a way to minimize plasmids' side effects. Jasmine Jolene to sell her unborn child. With and Tenenbaum extracts the zygote, giving Fontaine Fontaine instructs Suchong to experiment starting with accelerated aging so the year's time. More importantly, however, is to be able to command this new sleeper agent to so long as the right "cue words" are used. As with false memories as he lays in an incubator sympathize with all of the children they've been taken to the surface to live his fabricated The powder-keg of unrest finally blows Fontaine's businesses to investigate the smuggling "kills" Frank Fontaine, who cleverly foresaw it death. In the wake of Fontaine's "death", Ryan contradiction to his hatred of government truth behind the Little Sisters Orphanage. he forces Suchong and Tenenbaum to continue their sea slugs to extract ADAM from, and with most of to turn to a much more grim solution to keep the The pair of doctors discover that after a where their ADAM can be extracted. A Little Sister however, must do this process. As the Little Alexander on his human/machine hybrids, Subject Delta's memories are erased, and he's Little Sister) and the pair "bond" together. repeats itself with every pairing of these and their Little Sisters, who affectionately Taking up the mantle of "Atlas", the man formerly the downtrodden workforce of Rapture. Bellowing accent, Atlas soon recruits enough supporters several splicers Atlas was able to recruit using faked death, the group prepare their first strike. Subject Delta and his Little Sister, avoid a group of splicers while on a routine ADAM Lamb emerges from the shadows to recover her she is able to command Subject Delta to take own head, killing Eleanor's "Daddy" before her Just after Rapture's elites toast to ball, Atlas's army attacks the Kashmir While Ryan wasn't at the New Year's celebration Bill McDonagh (one of his few remaining Ryan decides that the only way In the wake of the attack, Rapture's hysterical their funds. Ryan expects it will cause economic him from interfering. Ryan's growing tyrannical when he forces his longtime chief of security, for speaking out against him and Sander Cohen a murderous lunatic). Sullivan complies, causing him to disassociate from Ryan Similarly, Brigid Tenenbaum has her own change of had been working on. After escaping Ryan Plasmids dorm that she fashions into a safehouse. There, while working on her own, in secrecy, Ryan's walls close further in when he learns subsequent sale of their child to Fontaine, from Ryan confronts Jolene, and while she tries to wouldn't be completed, in his rage, Ryan ends Finally having enough of Ryan's hypocrisy, and the Bill McDonagh decides to get his family out of for the city, Bill decides that the only Planning on sending off his family without him, There, Bill pulls a gun on Ryan, but he finds Bill with his walking stick, but Bill responds knocking the man unconscious. Bill decides to his family. As Bill, his wife, and their daughter met inside by Ryan's constables. Bill reasons with they say their goodbyes before leaving him alone their former friend, Ryan's men give Bill McDonagh Back underwater, the civil war between this turbulent time that an ADAM-fueled arms forces discover more powerful plasmids, Ryan's leading to more and more skirmishes throughout the ongoing warfare, using it to field-test various In 1960, Atlas finally uses his ace-in-the-hole disguised as a "gift" purportedly implanted memories of). Jack then boards a plane visiting his "cousin" (who was also fabricated). a letter along with a pistol. The letter gives crash landing it in the North Atlantic, near the however, is the way the instructions are given. Suchong programmed into him to obey Jack, left in a zombie-like state, unknowingly at the commanded location. Jack then awakens and he swims toward the only landmark he can Meanwhile, one of Sinclair Solutions' field where they hear Andrew Ryan making an emergency that a threat even stronger than the civil war and states that a lone survivor is currently all Rapture citizens to focus on the using a pheromone gas developed by Suchong control their desires. The splicer subject is the depths outside of their apartment window. massive statue of Andrew Ryan alongside his the bathysphere housed inside the Lighthouse inside. Jack then rides the bathysphere re-introduced (although he's unaware) to his When the bathysphere reaches its destination, it scurries off, Jack overhears a voice from "kindly" pick it up. Jack does so, and the man maintaining his freedom-fighter ruse while through Rapture. Soon, Jack discovers his giving him the ADAM-based powers needed Atlas asks for Jack's help to find his "family" his way, Jack comes across a Little Sister and protect her from a splicer. Soon, Ryan discovers Bounty, believing Jack to be some kind of Jack searches for another way to and after fighting through a deranged plastic kill a Big Daddy. As the splicer attempts to however, Tenenbaum arrives and shoots him blaming her for creating the Little Sisters in to use a plasmid she successfully developed original state. While Atlas instead urges slugs inside the girl (which would subsequently to Jack. This remains the case for all other Once Jack reaches Neptune's Bounty, Atlas where his family is in a hidden submarine. a research camera to take photographs of Wilkins. While Jack cooperates, the paranoid to be working for Fontaine, and he attacks. into the hidden smuggler's submarine bay. control panel to open the submarine to free his to attack. Jack is forced to watch through separating him and Atlas once more as the Feigning vengeance for his supposed family's once and for all. With his new destination given office. On his travels, Jack meets Julie Langford, trees, as well as the extremely demented Sander office from Cohen, Jack is forced to take part in and taking photos of various former disciples of corpse of Jasmine Jolene, and learns of her affair Jack is still oblivious to the fact that he and he unknowingly leaves the corpse of his mother Cohen's "masterpiece", the artist reveals himself Jack again has a choice to make: allow Cohen to Either way, Atlas then asks Jack to "kindly" Jack observes Ryan's "trophy room" of the corpses is Bill McDonagh, his eternal resting place on EMP bomb he finds abandoned, Jack is able to him and Ryan's office. As Jack reaches the office, declaring that even if Atlas can take Inside, Jack stumbles upon Ryan's study, where collecting on the mysterious invader's true connected the dots and uncovered the truth the man in his office, calmly golfing on an indoor Andrew Ryan gives his final speech, A slave obeys." He then reveals Jack's past, him arriving in Rapture were manufactured. and demonstrates the mental programming that Ryan then hands Jack his putter and commands Andrew Ryan forces Jack to confront the freedom, Jack has been a puppet all along, Ryan finally proves his point about the the putter in his skull, killing him and Jack then takes a keycard with Ryan's genetic code self-destruct sequence. Atlas then calls Jack to revealing that he and Frank Fontaine had been Fontaine has no reason to hide his identity, resurrecting Fontaine Futuristics As Frank deploys security bots to kill Jack, he is suddenly led to safety by a group to him based on his actions thus far. This where the doctor is able to undo some of Jack's but not completely free of Fontaine's control. his apartment in order to remove the other While searching for Suchong, Jack learns of "Lot 192". Jack reaches Suchong's lab, where he Little Sisters and Big Daddies, while additionally one of his own experiments. After recovering once again take down the tyrannical leader of When Jack lets Fontaine slip through his fingers, in order to get a Little Sister to open a a voice modulator, and a diving suit, Jack is able right to Fontaine, giving Jack her syringe, Jack takes an elevator to Fontaine's lair, where the powerful plasmids he had been saving ace-in-the-hole, and weakens the hulking mutant Sister's syringe. After a grueling battle, enough for the remaining Little Sisters to arrive and sending his body into a massive shock which In the wake of the battle, the events that Jack regarding the Little Sisters throughout his of the Little Sisters, he becomes the besmirching his ideals even further by obtaining the surface. If Jack instead had saved them all of the pain suffered there, and brings the On the surface, Jack gives the girls what he he dies peacefully surrounded by the adopted In the power vacuum left in the wake of Dr. Sofia Lamb finally emerges from Persephone instilling a completely opposite ideological working for the collective good. She starts working with Dr. Gil Alexander on a project hoping to imbue the subject with the collective When this experiment goes horribly body and mind of its first subject, Dr. that there must be a better method. She could handle the amount of ADAM needed to have to be someone whose body was adapted to Needing more and more ADAM for this experiment, the task are growing too old for the gathering, Using Alexander's methods, these girls are as well as a new title: "Big Sisters". Lamb covertly abduct and return with candidates In 1968, a decade after his death, Subject (a Sinclair and Suchong developed used during his journey if he found himself Delta immediately begins to search for who had assisted Eleanor in reviving him, While Delta is forced to deal with the Big his diving suit and powerful conditioning Sisters as well as the ocean around Delta soon finds Tenenbaum at the train station, who informs the Big Daddy about his origins "returned" to Rapture to save the little girls sicks more splicers on the train station, girls she rescued while Delta fights them off. telling him to search for Eleanor in Fontaine Sinclair calls Delta and leads him to the informing him of an "Incinerate" plasmid in thaw it. After collecting ADAM from another choice of rescuing or harvesting her), Delta After killing a Big Sister hoping to take his the ice blocking the train and boards it with who initiates a city-wide lockdown. Sinclair Grace Holloway to get an override key. caretaker (who Delta had previously Delta grabs the key and is given the choice Either way, Delta returns back to the train, they're soon stopped once again, this now a preacher in Lamb's Family. "Father" Wales (separating him from Sinclair), and causing Delta heads to a pumping station to drain can secure another train car. Delta fights Wales before draining the park and However, there's one more blockage that locked down. Delta is then called who offers him a "deal" to shut down the the park of the Little Sisters that have arrived After completing this task (by rescuing or Poole informs Delta of his history as Johnny his bond with Eleanor, he also discovers After deciding Stanley's fate, Delta returns arrives at Fontaine Futuristics. Inside, in his last moments of lucidity before his In the messages, Alexander leaves instructions also has to deal with this currently mutated Great" and communicating via the security system. the laboratory where the giant mutated doctor is Delta can choose whether to leave him alive or put Using a key with Gil's genetic code, where he quickly finds Eleanor locked sitting beside her. Delta fights off Big he is finally able to enter the As he approaches, Sofia tells Delta was behind having him revived, and she has seeing Eleanor as a monster influenced daughter with a pillow, knowing that her bonded Big Daddy will fall into a coma. While and her heart stops long enough for him to fall When Delta awakens, he finds himself strapped to assist him. The Little Sister injects Delta seeing Rapture through one of their "Delta" is able to sneak into Lamb's office to release the cell locks before collecting After delivering the equipment, Eleanor dons it body to free him. Sofia watches and realizes the intending on blowing up Persephone to bury rush to Sinclair's escape lifeboat, After Sofia activates another security Sinclair when Lamb introduces him to is controlled by Lamb. While Sinclair tries only escape is for Delta to put him out of taking the override key from him as Augustus Afterwards, Eleanor has Delta free the remaining power to boil away water that has filled the does so and returns to Eleanor at the lifeboat, Little Sisters. In one final battle with the Delta protects Eleanor while she the pair flood the docking platform to launch Unfortunately, the pair run right into Eleanor is able to escape at the last second and is unable to reach the lifeboat as ocean and grabs on to the lifeboat, watching It's at this point several different outcomes his revival. If Delta's good actions inspired her from drowning and takes her to the surface. Similarly, Delta's fate is determined by his by the explosion, if Delta had harvested the then Eleanor either steals his ADAM and becomes surface world; or Delta decides to sacrifice giving the young woman a chance If he had instead rescued the Little Sisters and essence through his ADAM, allowing them to Little Sisters then hands Eleanor a which she then drops into the water, leaving At some point during Subject Delta's Sigma approaches "Minerva's Den", a locked it's most advanced technological achievements, called "the Thinker". As Sigma approaches, the Thinker's co-inventors) who triggers When Sigma awakens on the ocean floor, he receives the Thinker's other co-inventor. Porter who can help them get the Thinker out of to "rescue" his invention from his former Sigma makes his way into the old "Rapture Central Once inside, Porter has Sigma take a keycard he can print a hard copy of the Thinker's beacon that will allow them safe exit in the Thinker's Computer Core. As he gets closer, right with Porter. Wahl tells Sigma that Porter and the Big Daddy soon finds a recording fact. In the recording, Porter notes that he's but he focuses on the task at hand: the "Rapture into the Thinker to escape Rapture and live Inside the Core, Sigma uses the Code Sigma awaits the printout...until Wahl stopping the print. Wahl taunts Sigma before in his wake. Tenenbaum finally calls Sigma and bring the Thinker back online in order After a rough battle, Sigma kills Reed from his body so he can reactivate the the Thinker scans his genetic code, recognizing Thinker then announces the Big Daddy's revealing that Sigma had been none other Tenenbaum then calls again and tells the Thinker all along. Before he was the plan to get the Thinker out of Rapture find a cure for ADAM sickness. They chose it would be subconsciously familiar to Porter retrieves the printout of the Thinker's passing through his old study. There, Porter recreate his late wife Pearl's so he could speak with her again. Porter and the pair ascend to the surface, Sometime much later, we find Charles his former self with the Thinker's help, where his wife was buried. He leaves goodbyes and walks away towards an unknown future. at least as it was left all the way back in 2010. story to cover. While our next story takes us Now, let us go from the depths of the ocean Our story begins in the 1890s, shortly after South Dakota, where we find United States participated in the event and is seen he is quickly overwhelmed by the guilt of preacher named Witting, who offers to wash While the personal significance of this decision he couldn't possibly imagine the ramifications two parallel timelines emerge: one where Booker In the timeline where Booker accepts the baptism, the "Booker DeWitt" name and rechristening himself named Rosalind Lutece, who had discovered in space-time at a fixed height. Named after to use these Lutece Particles to build a floating During her research, Rosalind is able to from a parallel reality, Robert, through the then work together to develop a device that the fabric of reality, allowing glimpses into, The collaboration between the Lutece of a city suspended in the clouds to become launched in 1893 at that year's Chicago World's Columbia begins to travel the world as a monument Columbia as his &quot;Ark&quot; or the "New Eden," a of America as he perceives them. Comstock's and white supremacy, leading to his founding Columbia begins to thrive, thanks in great part to Twins. Comstock looks through the tears to see future outcomes. He quickly gains the reputation of Columbia's inhabitants. Comstack shares Jeremiah Fink, who begins to bring technologies state of Columbia. One of these universes, so it with that universe's Dr. Yi Suchong. Fink is able which grant their users supernatural abilities Comstock soon sees a vision of Columbia, raining destruction upon New York City in the that the only way for Columbia to prosper is if it Zachary and his wife, Lady Annabelle due to Comstock's repeated overexposure to with securing a pure and divine legacy, Using their ability to access parallel realities, alternate universe. This brings us back to refused the baptism. In that timeline, Booker joining the Pinkerton National Detective Agency one bright spot in his life, his wife Annabelle, This drives Booker further into a dark depression, leaving his job and spiraling into Comstock, desperate and ruthless, arranges for clearing his gambling debts. Distraught and deep create a tear in reality through which Comstock pulled through the tear, Booker tries to take his the portal closes on her, severing the tip of the her existing within two distinct realities, and manipulate tears herself. Anna, now renamed meanwhile, brands his own hand with his never forget the sin he committed. This proves to interaction with the tears, and subsequent Over the next years, Comstock continues giving him cancer and causing him to rapidly Booker somehow arriving in his universe to preach to his congregation about a "False Meanwhile, Lady Comstock grows more and Elizabeth. At the Lady's request, Elizabeth knowledge of her adoptive parents' identities. Island to be his daughter's gilded cage. a massive, flying fusion of man and machine with Suchong. While Comstock unsuccessfully she educates herself extensively through the After an incident where Elizabeth saves Songbird's inspirations did with their own Little Sisters. he doubles as her jailer, keeping her installs a group of devices in the tower to creating new tears to wherever she would want, In 1895, Zachary learns that his wife is preparing He has her killed, framing their housekeeper to elude capture, and she takes refuge in she establishes the militant Vox Populi, which stands directly against In 1901, Columbia, now floating over China, acts in the Boxer Rebellion (in which American hostages Comstock uses Columbia's highly advanced weapons denounces this decision, recalling Columbia instead seceding from the Union on July 6th, In 1909, after over a decade of Vox Populi warring captured after a mole within her group tips off House Re-Education Center", a research facility by psychologist Dr. Francis Pinchot. with Daisy under the supervision of his superior, Pinchot reach an agreement where they share progress, Dr. Kittery suggests more invasive but Pinchot continues his interviews, intrigued by tensions flare when Fitzroy's critical responses nature. Later, after Fitzroy scores a genius-level her philosophy, reading her manifesto The People's On May 13, 1909, Dr. Pinchot faces a moral aid in her escape from Comstock into a torture facility. Choosing to help admitting a grudging admiration for her mind as Fitzroy's rescue unfolds, she shockingly his assistance and change of heart. Seeing him facility and rejoins her Vox Populi comrades. a tear depicting Elizabeth using her unique destroying New York City. Robert then coerces back to her home universe to prevent this dire and has Jeremiah Fink sabotage their machine. and they are presumed dead when their bodies this event doesn't kill the Luteces, but instead giving them the ability to exist and Unsatisfied with how things were left in Columbia, in getting Booker to the city to reclaim his repeating the cycle of bringing him to Despite this, the Luteces continue their In 1912, Booker DeWitt, now a private the Lutece twins to return a young woman back her name, and no other information they take Booker through a tear into the then row Booker to a Lighthouse off the coast instructions and a weapon before rowing back to Booker climbs the lighthouse, finding its former Booker activates the lighthouse, stepping inside the clouds, he gazes upon the wonder of the city Columbia. The pod lands and Booker emerges in speaking of the Founders. Witting then baptizes he's held under water, Booker sees a vision of the Booker regains consciousness in the "Garden Fathers. Booker then explores Columbia, ten year anniversary of its secession. On his Booker receives a telegram from the Luteces, in the flesh, telling him to flip a coin, which Booker flips heads, and when he's offered he picks a ball marked #77, not giving much Booker soon sees what the baseball is the lucky winner (which happens to be #77) gets Before Booker can decide whether to he's stopped by Columbia Police agents Booker breaks free, stealing one of use the city's railway systems to traverse. using various Vigors he finds to gain his As Booker makes his way to Monument Island, Hale Comstock, who warns him that "not all Comstock's Zeppelin to take to the commanding one of his followers to set the fiery zeppelin just before it explodes, There, Booker finds the tower, observing Elizabeth "normal" life. Watching her, Booker learns that Soon, Booker crashes into Elizabeth's to the startled young woman. At this unaware of each other's true identity, as Suddenly, Songbird senses danger and rushes the tower to get to his bonded protectee, fall as Elizabeth and Booker make a sky-hook ride, however, the attack from to fall into "Battleship Bay", an Knocked out, Booker dreams of the starting to put the pieces of his foggy Booker finds Elizabeth dancing on a pier. Booker and lies to Elizabeth, telling her it's going and the pair run into the Lutece twins, who ask decision over to Booker, who can decide between Despite which Booker picks, the pair move to pick locks so they can get around a police the pair are ambushed, forcing Booker and As Elizabeth watches Booker kill their attackers, then finds her in the gondola to "Soldier's The pair come to a shaky agreement, Elizabeth They soon find that they'll need a particular the airship moving, and they head to the nearby While the museum is closed for Columbia Day, her ability to open tears to Booker on the has already been overrun by Cornelius Slate, of Booker DeWitt during Wounded Knee) leading fight their way through exhibits dedicated to Peking. During their exploration, the pair is Comstock's daughter, the "Lamb". Booker from him, leaving him with yet another choice of With the electrical Vigor in hand, the finally boarding it to ride up to the and Booker punches in the coordinates to their Elizabeth to realize that the coordinates The betrayed Elizabeth grabs a pipe knocking him unconscious yet again. While he's but they're stopped by Vox Populi. Booker is captured as their leader, Daisy Daisy introduces herself, and asks Booker to join a gunsmith in Finkton who can supply them. their guns for them, they'll give them the and Booker soon finds Elizabeth, who immediately attacked by a massive half-man/half-machine Elizabeth reluctantly rescues Booker, and she agrees to help him get the airship to Paris. Working together again, the pair Chen Li, missing (with signs of May, who claims that the Founders arrested Booker and Elizabeth arrive at the Good Time Club, intercom by Jeremiah Fink. Fink then "evaluates" him by sending in waves of enemies and other Booker is offered the job, but he declines, but unfortunately too late, as they find Suddenly, the Luteces appear before them universe where Chen Lin isn't dead. Elizabeth where they find that in this reality, one can "remember" their deaths. they find him living a completely different life. forcing Booker and Elizabeth to retrieve them The two find the tools, and Elizabeth is able where they are back at the shop. They enter the Fink underway. Strangely, Booker soon learns for the Vox Populi. As the memories begin to The two go to Chen Lin's shop, finding both the The pair go back to reclaim the airship, While Elizabeth feels responsible for Booker is contacted by Daisy Fitzroy. This arrival, as she sees it as an affront to the The pair soon see Fitzroy just as she shoots pane of glass. After wiping her face with his imposters". Fighting through the revolutionary Daisy still inside the locked glass room, Booker boosts Elizabeth up to a while he distracts Daisy. Fitzroy claims that pull it from the root, forcing Elizabeth saving the young Fink but killing Daisy the First Lady Airship, locking herself in her Shortly after the ship begins to move, a freshly cut shorter hairstyle and Comstock's wardrobe. Elizabeth asks Booker and he simply responds that "you As the pair decide whether to go to Paris or location and hones in on them. While they try to Booker and Elizabeth emerge from the wreckage subdue the songbird by finding the instrument The pair head to Comstock House, finding a with the scalps of several important gondola up to the Port Prosperity district, informing Booker of their research into their destination, Songbird soon tracks them down, Elizabeth forces Booker to promise him that he'll at least make sure they can't The pair arrive at the house, and its security to her dress, despite the Lady's inconvenient Mother's fingerprints, Elizabeth decides to pay Luckily, Zachary kept his wife's preventing her decomposition. As they attempt them and unleashes another machine that begins bringing forth some sort of ghostly apparition are then forced to fight the ghost of her dead. After the battle, the pair follow Through these tears and recordings nearby, the and Lady Comstock, although the latter accused the child. While Elizabeth doesn't learn her true are not her parents. With this knowledge, knowing they're both just victims of Comstock. and she blasts open the door to Comstock House, As the pair reach the ride up to Comstock throwing Booker into the station and knocking him him to "bring [them] the girl, and wipe away the stop Songbird from attacking him. Elizabeth agrees and Songbird grabs her before flying off, Booker soon finds himself in the middle of a later. He sees closing tears and enters Comstock tears, Booker hears memories of Dr. P. Pettifog device to control her mind and siphon her powers Comstock broke Elizabeth down, convincing her that Despite the disturbing revelations Booker finds the security console and unlocks he encounters the Luteces once Elizabeth's cell, he finds that she This future Elizabeth helps Booker to a ledge by Columbia in 1984. She explains that she future the Luteces were trying to avoid. She advising her "not to become me." This future where he reaches the operating theater DeWitt fights to the controls that operate them off. Now freed, the woman is able to open a through. The doctors are swallowed by the tornado Booker races to Elizabeth and saves her, removing from her older self. Now knowing that Comstock she vows not to leave Columbia until she Booker tells Elizabeth he can't let her kill The pair then find Comstock's flagship, surmise that he must be on board. Fighting Booker and Elizabeth take an airship to the finding a model of Elizabeth's tower, learning Elizabeth then enters Comstock's chambers, and up to her father, standing beside a baptismal been hiding something from her, and violently her severed finger. Booker then grabs Comstock the font. Comstock simply says "it is finished," Booker denies knowing about Elizabeth's finger, but his nose starts to bleed. Elizabeth he just doesn't remember. Booker, still denying down the tower to destroy the siphons so As Booker pilots the giant zeppelin back to the board. Elizabeth realizes at that moment that wasn't referring to the word, but to a sequence devices that alerts Songbird to retrieve the melody on just as the Songbird arrives, With Songbird's help, Booker and Elizabeth fight Afterwards, Elizabeth and Booker look upon her the whistler, and he plays the melody, commanding blast, Booker drops the whistler, losing to dash towards them, ready to attack. With an Elizabeth creates a new tear, taking them to Songbird crashes into a pane of surrounding waters, and the pressure of the as the two say their goodbyes through the glass. Booker soon finds that he's and the pair take a bathysphere back up to entrance. Elizabeth looks to the stars in the doors...opening all at once" she sees in the they are able to open the door, but when lighthouses on the other side. Elizabeth begins telling Booker that "there's always a lighthouse; Elizabeth is able to see all of the possible her. She notes the similarities and differences; the versions of them, with every decision to every and in the future. All of these paths lead them Booker opens the door to another lighthouse much the other side, he finds himself back at Witting with the decision to wash away his sins. stops the baptism as it's occurring, Elizabeth takes Booker through another door, where wipe away his debt. While Booker believes this she quickly reveals to him that it was actually disbelief, denying he ever had a baby. As his boat rowing to the lighthouse with the Luteces. he's killed Comstock, Elizabeth reminds him that After Booker is forced to relive the moment daughter, he's brought back to the coast of Maine once again, but this time his mind adapts, and he knowing his adversary's true identity, Booker then selling his daughter in the first place is to kill Booker enters the lighthouse doors once again Suddenly, Booker turns to look at Elizabeth, as arrive beside her. The Elizabeths tell Booker in other worlds, he didn't, which led to the times. To prevent this, the Elizabeths Booker in the baptismal font before he can even As Booker's life fades away, so as the possibilities of them being We then see a scene taking place on October Booker DeWitt, Private Investigator, calls out to her crib, and the screen fades to black, leaving While this brings us to the end of Booker before the erasure of their there was another story to tell. One that takes This story takes us to the undersea New Year's Eve. There, we find a run-down who is awoken by a potential client: a him a job to find an orphaned girl named of Fontaine's charities. Booker recognizes Elizabeth simply states that "Lost isn't out into the neon-filled underwater city. Booker relationship to Sally, but the woman keeps her Elizabeth is shocked to see a group of Little why she's never seen them before, to which she Once the two are alone again, Elizabeth reveals took her in, but eventually lost her when she was casino. Booker tells her that a "cop friend" of found floating in the docks. Elizabeth then revealing that Sally very likely could have Elizabeth takes Booker to her source: appropriately named "Cohen". They soon learn and only those artisans who have been pair then begin to search the stores that are Eventually the pair are able to steal one of the masks to gain entry to Cohen's club. they find the artist in another one electrocuting two dancing partners to death after what he knows about Sally, but he only agrees Booker and Elizabeth reluctantly agree and begin the two determine that the only people in selling children would be Ryan or Suchong, he would know it, since he had tortured Suddenly, Cohen grows furious and electrocutes When Booker awakens, he finds himself with for Sally, warning them that they might not like elevator going down below the trenches, where they sunk by Ryan after Frank's supposed death. they'll find Sally in the housewares department, After finding what Elizabeth knows as a sky-hook, points out as "constants and variables"), the Unfortunately, the pair soon find they're in this universe have experimental drinkable forms and definitely not because it was easier and the base game in the DLC). Eventually they obtain There, the pair begin to search for Sally in gets the idea to raise the heat levels to leaving only the exhaust vent open, Booker They're forced to turn up the heat, and vent. Booker grabs her, seeing Suddenly, Elizabeth shouts to warn Booker, firing a drill at him. Booker dodges the to the vent to rescue Sally after. While Sally she does recognize the head of her favorite tries to forcefully pull Sally from the vent, his seep back into his mind, only this time, the Booker then remembers his lifetime as Comstock, after the baby girl died as he tried to take him to a universe where he could but he only created another similar Booker tries to apologize to Elizabeth for all "about to be." Sally's Big Daddy then returns drill. Booker looks into Elizabeth's eyes, and she Elizabeth then finds herself in Paris, ideal vacation location. Soon, though, her who is constantly just out of her reach, running Elizabeth sees Paris in Flames. Still running Elizabeth finds herself at the door to she finds the furnace controls on the other the Little Sister version of Sally, who Elizabeth then comes to, seeing the corpse of and his men, who are currently trying to grab his men to dispose of Elizabeth, she sees that she can get Atlas back to Rapture. She does which "Booker" tells her is Suchong. Following his lab assistant, offering their help getting them Elizabeth live, throwing her a shortwave When Elizabeth awakens, she finds herself in the She spots the radio and begins to hear a call as bait to take revenge on Comstock. Booker and she realizes that she can no When she brushes aside some rubble, Elizabeth killed by the same Big Daddy that did begins to bleed, and when she looks at her Elizabeth then finds herself in the rowboat with to Rapture. Knowing that she can't just leave Comstock, Elizabeth enters the Lighthouse. She against the twins' warning that it might cause Left without any of her supernatural abilities forced to sneak around nearby splicers, using for Suchong. Luckily, she soon finds a crossbow While searching for Suchong, Elizabeth finds Hole" that the doctor has. While she finds no sign the doctor was aware of Columbia, Booker, and able to know what he knew: a Lutece Device in Elizabeth then realizes that while she can she could bring the Lutece Particle from surface. While the machine is currently able to decode Suchong's secret schematics Elizabeth gathers the necessary parts to getting the tear to Columbia completely open. She Knowing it utilizes a Lutece Particle to float, returns to the tear. Unfortunately, she finds it her to come back through it if she brings As she makes her way to it, Elizabeth overhears she'll kill Fink, but not his son. The Luteces actually harm the boy, just give no choice but Luteces' word that this will lead to the ultimate After using Fink's elaborate clock-based pathway seeing the version we saw earlier of Daisy Fitzroy. Elizabeth realizes that Daisy giving her the strength and maturity to complete collaboration between Suchong and Fink, learning Elizabeth then finds the hair sample Suchong was by the Songbird. Yes, this means Elizabeth was With the sample in hand, Elizabeth returns to After returning to Rapture through the her conversation with the doctor is who accuses Elizabeth of being a thief. He then his working with her is a clear betrayal, and he he'll be "liquidated". Ryan then asks Elizabeth if Ryan's men then arrive, and Elizabeth off. In the wake of the battle, she place the Lutece Particle would be gets her access to the private elevator, On the trip up, she receives another call from Elizabeth gets to Fontaine's office and places Elizabeth asks Atlas for Sally. Unfortunately, the man double crosses her, and his men Elizabeth then awakens after the held captive by Atlas. Still believing they begin to question her about the "Ace in inject her with "truth serum", which only puts When Elizabeth awakens, she finds and Atlas continues to question her about the Ace Atlas threatens to lobotomize her, he'd be doing her a favor by making strategy by instead threatening the Suddenly, Elizabeth finds herself before Booker, all of the open doors to every possible reality, to a room with the Ace, which is in Suchong's the Ace is, and offers to retrieve it for him in Inside Suchong's lab, Elizabeth finds an injured two nearby Little Sisters inject their bonded ADAM Daddy, as it turns out, is the one that ends Elizabeth finds the "Ace": a message Elizabeth returns to Atlas and hands the Ace the face with a wrench. When he goes to read the Atlas demands the translation from Elizabeth, unfold involving Jack arriving at Rapture, she This sets in motion the events that Jack of his story, most notably the reality where he Content that she's redeemed herself and caused the Rapture, this Elizabeth dies peacefully, bringing Columbia in one fell swoop. This is the last but who knows? Maybe one day we'll find another of the infinite universes we've yet to explore. journey through the skies of Columbia and the don't forget to like, comment, and subscribe Special thanks to all the folks on screen for description, and you should too. This has been