There are lots of questions one could ask quarks to why would anyone care about particle Luckily, the answer to that last one is easy. bleeping awesome. I mean, come on- who would However, there are questions that even reasonable might be why the various subatomic forces about the size of a proton, the strong nuclear about one percent as strong as the strong about 0.001 percent as strong as the strong Just why these forces have the strength they depending on the force. So, I thought I'd than the electromagnetic force when they have into a single force that we call the electroweak for another day. To understand what's going on, you need is that the photon is the particle that mediates and has no electrical charge. For the weak the interaction. They are the W and Z bosons. The W boson has an electric charge and the The points I'll be making are universal, Z boson for purposes of illustration. And, Let's talk about when a quark and antimatter force carrying particle, which then decays There's nothing particularly special about make my point. So we see here two Feynman diagrams that show we see that quark and antiquark coming together, electron and antimatter electron. On the right a Z boson. They're obviously very similar. I made another video about Feynman diagrams time to watch it. While Feynman diagrams are going on, they are also equations in disguise. elements. There are the two incoming particles Then there are the two vertices where the And finally, we have the force carrying particle. and the weak force Feynman diagrams have the We could therefore write an equation that we could say that the EM interaction is equal 2 times outgoing particle 1 times outgoing the decay vertex times the created particle. thing. So, since this equation structure governs similar, what exactly is the difference that Well, we see that the incoming and outgoing can't be the source of the difference. So we're left with the two vertices and the The vertex terms contain within them the charge that the difference might occur there. After some particles have a lot of charge and others the weak force charge and the electromagnetic similar in magnitude. They're not the same, different. So that isn't the cause either. And that leaves us with the force carrying force carrying term causes the weak force To take this next step, we need to talk about is one of the principles of quantum mechanics. simultaneously measure a particle's momentum But there's another expression of the Uncertainty particle for a shorter and shorter time duration, of the particle's energy. And, since energy E equals M C squared, that means a particle's So that's a lot to get your head around, what this is saying is that while a photon in an interaction that takes a very short have a mass. Similarly, the Z boson has a of energy, but its actual mass might differ This, of course, means that the mass of the That's a pretty mind blowing concept, but In fact, we have studied the Z boson to death is 91 billion electron volts, it really has between 89.5 and 94.5 billion electron volts. Now that's just the normal range. The mass between 0 electron volts and infinity. It's range. And we can quantify how likely it is for the most likely mass is 91 billion electron volts, electron volts about twenty percent as often. volts is only about one percent as likely unlikely. So now we're ready to answer the question down to energy. So let me hang some numbers The type of radioactive decay using the weak neutron decays into a proton and emits an kind of decay is the carbon 14 decay that If you look at it more deeply, what you see particle, which then decays into an electron mass that this particular W particle must of 156,000 electron volts or, in round numbers, Now the W particle has a natural mass, which range is between 78 and 82 billion electron ridiculously rare for a W particle to have just almost never happens. And because it almost never happens, then a carbon 14 nucleus will emit a W particle by the weak force are very rare and THAT is matter of energy and the probability of making Now I wouldn't be telling you the complete quarks decay. Top quarks decay by emitting And they do this decay so fast that it happens the electromagnetic force or the strong force. force actually happens first, which suggests that situation. Don't feel bad if you feel a bit confused. is weak and I just told you that in one case is energy. A top quark has a mass of 172 billion decay into a W particle with only 80 billion it will. But in the world of nuclear physics, which top quark, the decay involves only something which means that it won't happen until a unlikely mass. When that happens, then that So that's the basic idea. The weak force happen until a very rare W particle happens. easy to make W particles and, in those circumstances, In fact, this is an excellent example of just any advanced science. The simplest lessons deeper and deeper into the subject, your mind