Andrew Huberman: Welcome to the an expert guest discuss science and I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor at Stanford School of Medicine. Today marks the fourth episode in Paul Conti about mental health. Today's episode deals with We hear the phrase self-care a is self-care precisely defined. For instance, is self-care Is it about self-acceptance? Is self-care about just making sure we and have healthy relationships? Well, it turns out that yes, is about all of those things. But true self-care, the topic of as it relates to our mental health. True self-care is also about constructing our past, our present and future in gone wrong, what's gone right, and So in many ways, true self-care is really and doing so within the context of And today, Dr. Paul Conti shares with us He also touches on some of the things processed, can inhibit our ability to take how to properly process traumatic in, among many other topics as well. He also touches on some of the things to excellent self-care, including to frame those traumatic experiences He also shares with us various also practices that we can carry out meditation, journaling, and other ways of self-care toward our mental health. As I mentioned before, this is the series all about mental health. I realize that perhaps not everyone has previous three episodes in this series. If you haven't, it certainly won't prevent and protocols from today's episode. But I do encourage you at some episodes in this series because at level of concepts and of practices. I'd also like to highlight that Dr. Paul Conti has generously provided you navigate today's material and They are available as zero-cost PDFs by where you can view them or download them. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my zero-cost-to-consumer information tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to Our first sponsor is BetterHelp. BetterHelp offers professional therapist carried out all online. I've been doing therapy While I confess that initially I was for being let back into high school, a tremendously valuable practice. In fact, I consider doing regular as doing regular physical exercise The beauty of BetterHelp is that it therapist that's excellent for you. And we can define an excellent give you a lot of support, but in an with whom you can have excellent at positively transformative insights And with BetterHelp, they make matched to your schedule and If you'd like to try BetterHelp, to get 10% off your first month. Again, that's betterhelp.com/huberman. Today's episode is also Waking Up is a meditation app that sessions, mindfulness trainings, By now, there's an abundance of data can greatly improve our mood, reduce focus, and can improve our memory. And while there are many different find it difficult to find and stick that is most beneficial for them. The Waking Up app makes it extremely to carry out your daily meditation most effective and efficient for you. It includes a variety of different types as well as things like yoga nidra, which pseudosleep that allows you to emerge In fact, the science around yoga nidra is yoga nidra session, levels of dopamine in by up to 60%, which places the brain and for mental work and for physical work. Another thing I really like about a 30-day introduction course. So for those of you that have not meditation practice, that's fantastic. Or if you're somebody who's already a Up has more advanced meditations and If you'd like to try the Waking Up app, and access a free 30-day trial. Again, that's wakingup.com/huberman. And now for my discussion Paul Conti. Dr. Conti, welcome back. Paul Conti: Thank you. Pleasure to be here. Andrew Huberman: For this series, we've really defining what mental health is And in episode one, you laid out for us any and all of us can look at pretty much of resources to try and get a better not well we happen to be moving toward or In addition to that, you spelled out for And just to recap a little bit of that, action states of agency and gratitude. Paul Conti: Yes. Andrew Huberman: And then in episode challenges that you've observed in And we address some of the ways that going to the map, opening the so-called and asking specific sorts of questions. And then in episode three, we talked about map in those cupboards in particular can Romantic relationship, work and the relationship to self. Paul Conti: Yes, very important. Andrew Huberman: Very important. Paul Conti: The foundation of all Andrew Huberman: And I'm so glad that self, because today's episode, we And I should mention that if one, two, or three, that's okay. Today's discussion will be But I do recommend that at some point, hopefully episodes two and three as well. But today's discussion is really about all people and the action steps, the to all people that can allow anyone health, to move toward these ideals of And as you pointed out, it is a process. It's not that we arrive And just to reiterate, agency They involve ways of being in the world. Paul Conti: They're active processes. Like life is an active process. There's not an endpoint We're trying to live. Andrew Huberman: And in thinking to both of us, really, that today's Self-care as a concept, I think, for okay, you're going to take a vacation or get a massage, things of that sort. And certainly it can involve But just as if we were having a discussion going to talk about ways to take care span and lifespan, today's discussion the internal landscape, the mind. Paul Conti: Right. Andrew Huberman: Which also Paul Conti: Yes. Andrew Huberman: So if you would, could regardless of whether or not you have mental illness or somebody who's just and over again or anything in between. What sorts of self-care practices people take on for themselves? And for that matter, how do Paul Conti: Well, I think we start with factors that have to be in place in So the basics of we have to be and hopefully eating really well. We have to stay hydrated, we have to These are basics, but basics a lot Similarly, we have to be in fear and misery all the time. So an example of an abusive relationship. A person has to navigate out start taking care of themselves So we look for the basic factors to then look at the factors that And what we're really looking How much can we understand Be knowledgeable about what's going Also, and very importantly, being that goes on inside of us, and being we're engaging with the world around us. Do we feel happy? Do we not feel happy? How do we define what happy means? How are we engaging with the world? Because, as you were saying, the So how are we living life? How are we engaging with the world? Do we feel like life is a sequence example, or are we doing things we Do we have to do those things? How could life be different? We start looking at ourselves to assess people, the world around us, in a way that If we're in that state of agency to have periods of time where we contentment, or we feel delighted. So is any of that in my life? If not, why? Can I start thinking about that? Sometimes the answer is quite clear, like, not doing that, right, and I can't do it. And then you revisit, like, is A lot of times it is not true. And if it is true, how does the process that, perhaps grieve? So say, if it's a loss of a person, misery over years and years. So there may be things we have to can get ourselves to that place of knowing world in ways that we have a pretty good And then we look to say, okay, Because now we're thinking We want our bodies to be healthy because, But we also don't know what will be an injury or an illness? I mean, eventually we all have an injury So we're preparing for the will come our way in the future. And we're well-served by doing this There will be challenges that and stressors and things that These things will happen to us. So the healthier we are, the better today either make tomorrow even better today, I don't have today, I can meet that Andrew Huberman: So if I understand cornerstones of self-care for sake really good questions about oneself. Paul Conti: Yes. Andrew Huberman: I don't think I've Paul Conti: Yes. Andrew Huberman: It's in such stark self-care, which I certainly subscribe enough rest and avoids toxic people or toxic environments and so on. Paul Conti: Right. You mentioned ask questions of the self. But the logical next question to that Sometimes we know we have And this is where the construction let me think about my life. Let me potentially talk about my Let me potentially write down And we can learn so much from doing that. So the person who thinks back and and let's say, just as an example, that person is feeling pretty good about happens and it starts to change. Or then this thing happened, and time with different people, or I or I took a different kind of job. And it can engender the reflection changed then, because the emotion about the clock or the calendar. The emotions, often of negative And someone who can tell you, I was can then write out a life narrative until something happened or something could be something dramatic, or it school, or increasing social pressures, And if we have an understanding of Like, for example, let's say that they're drinking more. An example, but a common example, Oh, that's what I do. Or, yeah, I can't cope any better, right? The negative things people The narrative can often I did cope better. I did feel differently about myself. So the life narrative can really And part of what the life the places to ask the questions. Andrew Huberman: If you would be so kind how one would do this on their own. So does this involve I confess I have a file on my computer starts with age zero to five, and It's not an autobiography, far from it. It's just highlights of events and so on and places I lived. And I use it just to kind I actually don't know what the purpose started doing this, but it's an important often remember additional key events. So it's constantly growing. I mean, these files are getting purpose of writing this out at Paul Conti: Right. You can't not learn about It exposes truths of self. It makes you ponder about things. It draws your attention to ways in think those ways are good or bad. It draws your attention to change. It draws your attention to And as you said, it grounds you. It provides a way of Like, I am here now. Wait, how did I get here? And the thoughts and ideas of because often we don't do that. We're sort of rushing headlong our society is prompting us. We live in a very fast moving society and and often we don't even want it very fast, And to stop and reflect makes a very, at times beyond our generations. To the best of my knowledge, the vast family, everyone was a shepherd for every And thinking about that of, It makes me, in many ways, grateful. So grateful for the opportunity I've had. But I also think, well, they then, and what was that like? And we begin to see ourselves in a broader projecting forward, which sometimes is But it can certainly It can be about friendship. It can be about work. So we start to see ourselves in ways the lens of truth, and that speak And I think this engenders If I'm aware of, like, what have I done? What have I accomplished? When haven't I accomplished things? How might that be different? And a sense of gratitude for being even be able to think about this. My guess is when you read through you have sort of a sense of marvel, Right? Whether it's a good memory No, it's all part of you that And you do have a better Andrew Huberman: One of the feelings excursions into those files with is what's in those files are recollections Some are still alive, some aren't. And what that's meant to me and how that I'm sure there are a near infinite do this, but what are a few that that people can do on their own? Or perhaps with a clinician as well? In fact, that raises the question, practice and the contents of that Paul Conti: I think sharing with another And we can kind of take stock of that, of Often people say, oh, there's no But really, that often comes through a rejection, of vulnerability, which often Sometimes there really are. In fact, often there are safe people. So the act of doing something other brings, as you well know, it brings are thinking in a different way. So, for example, they may bring So if I'm thinking over and over again anything, that can be just automatic or to talk or even to formulate words, mind as if I were talking now, we come of ferret out the truth within us, which been able to do things or achieve things. And people often bring that than the same thought process And it's nonproductive, and it brings it also builds a sense of futility. I mean, I cannot tell you how no good will come of this. Or like, okay, try, we'll I've been thinking about this for they've been doing is the same thing. They've been ruminating They start talking about it and people more in two hours than I did in years. But that's because you're doing So I think that's very important, okay, go look in your unconscious So then we need ways of And the communication, either with be very, very helpful in doing that. I am a firm believer Many times I will feel like I have a and the other person may have that And all that I've done is We all know different things. So often it's the case that, hey, I happen from what that other person learns. And then I'm communicating learned, so they know them too. And then they feel tremendously better. Because if we put inside of ourselves unconscious minds, and sometimes on them, we'll make use of them. If you talk to a person, for example, how we can shove it underneath the shame, then that person may take that real understanding and the fact that We can do this through good resources. We can do this by taking information into And it doesn't require, because the first do that don't require professional help. And sometimes we may come at we should get professional help. So if we're having thoughts of to be alive, thoughts of real of hopelessness... that's telling us, okay, There's a role and a place for professional help in other ways, too. Such as, for example, reflecting thinking, it really became kind changing, like, after college. And then I thought like, oh, I've kind good job and things really should get And that was really a branch point. That person may have never Or they may have thought about it 10,000 From consciousness to scary, vulnerability-inducing thing. It seems scary. Like, how could it be that I achieved Now we're afraid of that, right? And letting that come to the surface, I don't have to be afraid Then a lot of times that alone, sometimes They think about it. They come in, they have all the answers. They thank me. I did nothing but listen. But the listening part is important. It allowed them to come in and And other times, then it can be that. But it's not always that. Other times it informs us about And it might not be It might just be like, I I want to be happier. I want to be healthier. I want to work towards these good things. When people talk about that, they're down, what are they talking about? A sense of peace, a sense of through agency and gratitude. And we can do that through It doesn't have to just be for a significant clinical problem. Andrew Huberman: Is it the case that life narrative or thinks about some great happened to them at whatever stage of in that action or in that therapy session, that when they go to sleep that night and that the unconscious is working some of to mind, later insights come to mind. I'm certainly familiar with the of day and evening where my brain It feels like somewhere And I just have learned that provided as much as I can, in particular social doing the dishes or preparing coffee to mind seemingly out of nowhere. It's not always a great insight. In fact, it's rarely a great insight, Sometimes a little bit of delight, Like, wow, where did that come from? Paul Conti: Because it came from It was invisible to you. Then it got thrown up And you realize it while in the midst Because during the day you're engaging, great, but it doesn't leave a lot of millions and millions of things a second which is the same reason it's uncanny. Any psychiatrist will tell come in and say, it's strange. All of a sudden when I can finally Or they don't know. Then I can finally relax and I go, then Because that's when If the person is laboring them this constant distress. When you stop focusing outward and you then the things that are underneath the And if there's something really very upset about or very afraid of, A panic attack. But if you're in a good place, you're in a generative stage, Then when you stop putting all imagine then salience changes. And instead of a lot of the salience And you're just sort of meditative. You're washing the dishes. And there's room then for something important to the surface. It's the exact opposite of how if they're trying to think of it. I mean, we all go through this name or that restaurant or whatever it and see if you figure it out. The answer is not in your conscious mind. So if you keep bringing your just generate frustration. But then when you stop thinking about Oh, I remember now. So that's how if we have the it's not going to figure out. Then it doesn't figure the thing out. And that works for our problems, too. That's why a person can say, I No, you ruminated about it for ten years. It just ran over and over and And how ironic, right? It prevents understanding. Andrew Huberman: So it's very clear to about oneself and one's self narrative beneficial in the moment or moments subconscious, or I guess the appropriate Right? Okay. So for those out there subconscious, it's unconscious. The unconscious can throw things up to can give us not just panic attacks, which away from, but as you point out, there's attack is occurring under conditions. Paul Conti: And if you stir up the some new information in, it can do new Which is why the process of the process of therapy is not always, and But then we take away from that So someone, this happens all the time. Who knows? They know that a certain trauma affecting them, whether it's for They don't know what to do about it. They have a conflict about it, so they They finally accept, for whatever What often happens then is, let's weeks of hourly therapy, that is upset or that person is angry. I mean, it doesn't always happen this time as they get better and better. Right, because they're Maybe they're crying and they're something they haven't grieved angry or they've just been ashamed. A classic example is a death. I mean, how many times do people think, It was X number of years ago. But they've never actually them, oh, it was my fault, right. And how many times do we hear that I before, I should have gone, we then And then from the guilt and shame So if the person then deals with. Right, I feel so bad about this. In fact, I feel so ashamed of it And so. Okay, well, let's talk about that. Right after my brother's death I was not involved in I had a business career at the time. And I finally went and saw someone. I wasn't acculturated that getting But I realized, hey, I'm not okay, right? So I didn't know how. I just knew the manifestation of And I could just tell, I know like this and this is not okay. So then I call the insurance number. Eventually I go in and see a therapist. And I'm sure she was a very good sense need to be, in the sense all the things we know we can do, And that's all she did with me. I mean, she got me talking about it, I was because it was my fault. And then really. And then she challenged me about But then it became clear that I was Far from it being That the problem that I was having now shame and guilt that it raised in me and not knowing what to do with it, then and I can't actually grieve, right? So at some point during those sessions, And I know what she was thinking, right? She's good. Okay. Thank goodness, this She probably felt a sense of hey, he's coming out of risk. He's able to feel sadness, He's been doing this before. So it's that work. Wait, if we put into it that makes health, I mean, if I want to be like I have to go to the gym and work, work, and then I get the benefit of it. And the same is true whether we're brings some difficult emotions to us, or whether we're doing it in therapy. But that's how that process of inquiry knots in us, so to speak, and to cut them am I going to feel okay about myself, even death, because I should have foreseen it. I mean, that doesn't work, right? You have to say, I see what that thing And then therapy can lead us to fault, and oh my goodness, I'm sad. Andrew Huberman: I'd like to take one of our sponsors, AG1. AG1 is a vitamin, mineral, your foundational nutrition needs. I started taking AG1 way back they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking AG1, and the twice per day, is that it's the easiest all of the vitamins, minerals, probiotics Now, of course, it's essential to get but most people, including myself, of fruits and vegetables each day, and and probiotics to ensure gut health. As you may know, your gut contains the so called gut microbiome, which other organs of your body to enhance immune system and other aspects that One of the most common questions I get is, which supplement would that be? And my answer is always AG1. Because by taking AG1, I'm able to vitamins, minerals and probiotics that physical health and performance. If you'd like to try AG1, to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel year supply of vitamin D3 K2. Again, that's drinkag1/huberman I can see how self- I've certainly experienced that in my Right? This is not something that Ideally, you do it forever, And at the same time, I know that wary of self-inquiry, especially bring about and make conscious and And most people would I'm sure there are also people who are think, oh, pattern of self- inquiry. All it could do, it Like, why would I want to do that? But I think we both agree that there's agency and gratitude to be had by going Paul Conti: I think that really which is that self- inquiry Now, I think just because things are inquiry isn't the right thing to do. Self-inquiry is always the right ourselves better, unless we're in a So when I was trying to think about What's going on in me? I reached a point where I anywhere and I'm getting worse. And this is not good for me, lead me to more guilt and shame? So then at some point, I sort It's like, I can't do And that's very, very important If you feel like, look, I don't think Again, thoughts of self- harm, thoughts Or let's on the side of being cautious. It is not a good idea then First go see someone clinically. And I know that can be hard to do in advocate for ourselves, we really push, get in front of someone who can kind And maybe that person helps us Maybe that person reassures us. Maybe that person then tells us that we then it leads to us getting that so that being well enough for the self-inquiry. Andrew Huberman: I'm grateful you shared the fact that just focusing on something And it sounds like a requirement for a It relates directly to what I'm most is in the map that you established carried through all these episodes. And by the way, if people are not cover it in top contour in a little But one of the key things, or cupboards, in in order to exert self-care and notion of self- awareness, of really and exploring what that's really about through narrative, et cetera. Also in this map is a cupboard What's most obvious, or what do terms of what sorts of thoughts we we focusing on in the outside world? And I think I, and perhaps many other resolve any conflict between a practice awareness and perhaps even drawing to recent traumas or challenges and salience. In other words, if I were to take some sit there and really think about the think about that have been gnawing at me the stuff that I gained some proficiency I think one fear that I have, and have it as well, is that if I were overtake a lot of my waking hours. It's like I don't want to think And so now what's salient And when I'm focused on something as generative as I would, like, Now I could even have the realization, okay, but that's necessary, right? Like, this is like getting a wound Like, sooner or later, you got not going to be at your best. But that conflict between gaining more that what is most salient to us kind of That conflict or friction seems us to drill into a little bit. Paul Conti: Absolutely. And I would say this. If you think there's something that you it's going to take over your mind, or up in a fetal position, I'm going to thing you must look at, because salience So if there's something inside of you itself up to the surface, like, hey, So your unconscious mind, throwing it up And often, although a lot of it happens also in the conscious mind. And if the person then stops and thinks, not thinking about be impacting you, And sometimes a person will realize, People say, oh, that's It's like kind of on the back And he says, right on the back burner. That's like having a voice in the very negative or very distressing. And it's just one example where that thing is actually quite salient. Sometimes there isn't a Oh, the salience of that is, that's It can come out later because we don't how much of it is conscious. But under the right circumstances, if not something going on that presents there's something inside of you, and surface, then what that is telling Now, again, we want to do it in judicious But that's the message. Andrew Huberman: I think it's especially something is gnawing at our conscious it absolutely has to be operating Paul Conti: Awareness, maybe Level of consciousness. Andrew Huberman: So if ever something like that, that's it. Because we can't be aware of the ways Again, somebody listening to I'm doing great. Why would I want to do any of this? Well, perhaps they could Paul Conti: Right, absolutely. Andrew Huberman: Self-awareness and and a sense of I is what we called Now, for those that listen to be familiar with what I'm talking Function of self. But just for sake of getting everybody here, maybe we could just return to We've talked about agency and you also described in previous concept of this generative drive. So if you could just take a few minutes and gratitude are, how one goes about and what the generative drive is. And then we'll return to the ten cupboards and function of self, which really that geysers up into these simple but being, which are agency and gratitude. Paul Conti: Yes. So I really liked when you brought the we think about the structure of self, of self, which is another pillar, ten cupboards we've been talking about. And they represent the areas of inquiry the structure and function of self. So that's where the answers are. Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: The answers The answers are in those ten cupboards. So if we're doing that, we're looking We're becoming healthier than that geyser. I imagine it coming out the And what it is lifting up is, But empowerment and humility way we're using them, they're So I have empowerment as So I have humility instead of, for even a reactive self- oppression. So I have these qualities of empowerment enacted, they become expressed by us. And I imagine riding on the top It's at the top of the Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: They're verbs. We navigate life as life moves forward. I will often think, like And you see in the Olympics where the it's like, that's us moving through life. And we all have different pathways, but That's what's happening. Living is an active thing. So agency and gratitude are active things. Why? Because they're the ultimate expression That's where it goes. If the pillars are in the right The empowerment and humility are with us. So we're engaging with ourselves, lens of clarity and through a lens of place and knowing our role in it. That's very, very active. And then it brings to us the peace, weaves in and out, as you described, contentment, the delight, when But you're doing something It's not a passive endeavor during But that makes sense. Peace doesn't mean nothingness. Right? Now it can. Someone who's looking out planted can feel that, too. But there's life going They're contemplating the garden. They know that they made the garden. So these are all active processes, because up in this place of looking inside of us. These drives within us are both Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: So think about how we have a natural bias one way or Just like someone has a natural aptitude to be more or less athletic, we have come together, and that may determine So maybe someone who doesn't athletic, perhaps myself, right? I'm not going to be the But if I work hard, I could be a lot And if I don't, I could So there are potentials within us that have a wide array of variants around them. And then our choices determine If I don't take care of myself, end of the athletic spectrum. If I do and I cultivate myself, Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: But still, that's a There's a very big difference. The same is true in our drives. The more we're taking care of ourselves, the generative drive and then the That drive in us is realized as Not everyone's is going to be But that drive is in a place that lets have a job they enjoy and can do better, whatever it is that we can do. We're more assertive, we're more engaged, So the pleasure drive, again, It's drive for things we enjoy. Like we enjoy safety, we enjoy friends and romance and sex and food. Like these are things that bring have that in a healthy place too. So there's not too much, not too Proactive drive, not too much, not And then we're in a place where we So if the pleasure drive is in a And maybe we foster it, moving a little and we're taking care of ourselves. So if our romance is in a more pleasure in our romance. If our physical fitness is in a We can do more things. So we are helping those drives to the generative drive, which we are And that puts us in the best place to in those cupboards, in a good place. And then on top of that geyser is the that gets enacted as agency and gratitude, peace and contentment and delight. And that reinforces the generative drive. So that's what's going on. And it has never failed me yet communicating happiness, either. What they think it is, how they found they think it philosophically is. It's all that, and it's not Because it's complex. We're complex, but the beauty of it it's not out of our reach to understand And if we do that, as we move further Approaching the world through it's pretty straightforward. That's why that's the best metric It's not, this person plays a musical mathematician, so they're not compatible. No more than one plays the trumpet, we assume they are compatible. Where are those drives at? Are people healthy in a healthy place? We can then take the best care of a healthy way, understand who's a ourselves out of unhealthy situations. And then we're building health within And that's how, at the different So if I make myself healthier and will be healthier as a group of two. That's always how that is. And if we're healthier as a as parts of larger groups. If the groups aren't healthy, we're We're engendering health, and that's can be manifest, even on a cultural of ourselves, we're less punitive, society and trampling the vulnerable. And we realize, oh, I I care about other people, even if understand and empathize with what And furthermore, I could So we behave differently as a culture, for on an individual level, all Andrew Huberman: I have several highlight what you said about relational fact that, as was explored in episode it just makes so much sense, most of for a romantic partner or determining relationship could be better or not, These very kind of superficial even level of education, some of not the critical issue at hand. And that the maps that the two to which they are expressing their gratitude is far, far more important. And so for those that haven't heard in relationships, not just romantic all kinds, work, families, relationship recommend listening to that conversation terms of its actionable takeaways. By actionable I mean actions, of thinking that can really serve people. I also just want to make one when you said hierarchy, when you referring to the hierarchy within the As opposed to... I don't want people to get mistakenly we're talking about some sort of, So I just want to clarify that. And that's actually a perfect jumping with a little bit more depth and that reside at the lower levels of Okay, so for those of you listening who that we've put in the show note captions. You can do that at any point, bunch of things down at the bottom of self and function of self. These cupboards that are extremely and explore and ask specific questions, cupboards that combine in a sort of recipe how much empowerment, humility, agency, and generative drive we are able to exert So imagine in your minds, if you from a picture model that Dr. Conti provided before the filming where below the surface of the And then a little bit is above the water. And maybe you'll help us revisit But if you take nothing away at this lot of complex stuff going on underneath But a key feature of this map is that what emerges from that complexity as we move towards places of better So if you would, could you describe especially what's down there in these stuff that we should be looking at. And then we'll touch on some of and the sorts of questions that we of some common challenges, but also paths to doing and feeling better. Paul Conti: Yes, the unconscious That's the deepest level So imagine sitting on top of a biological That's what's going on inside of us. The unconscious mind is that And if we're interested in ourselves, about what is going on in it. And that's where, even though it's not accessible through other ways, such as And of course, there are other ways want to know what is in it, because what what's going on in our conscious mind. That's the person on top of the biological image we've been using is the top of the So we can look at that either way. But what is in it has, of course, we're aware of, our conscious mind. And I think the best analogy here, and that parallels very well, is to an So an abscess is an area So imagine that there's some infection, there's some infection, and that If that infection spread, boy, person could die from that, right? So the body does a really good And that's a good thing, right? Because if the infection weren't But the walled-off infection does So someone who has an abscess This happens frequently in medicine, rooms, and they have a low grade fever for a while, and they just don't and they're not sleeping well, and There are pervasive experiences going Like not feeling great all the doesn't feel really sick. That's sometimes why it takes a while for So what's going on is better But it is not synonymous with health. So what happens in physical medicine? Abscess is identified, The surgeon goes in and drains Now, think about that process. Like surgery. Surgery is not a fun thing. Right? There's anesthesia, there's recovery. But surgery is great when Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: So it's not that, oh, the the family practice doc identifies the surgeon, everything is great No, they have to go have a surgery, Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: But if they go and infection actually is gone. So they do not have the spinning off inside of them. And they also don't have the risk that abscess and their life is then at risk. So the parallel is looking into the us that may be acting like that abscess. Even though this is an This happens all the time. And the abscess inside that person went on right around the time of puberty. It may be that awful boss who is just so Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: It might be that. It might be that assault that that's really still with me. It might be that death I I don't know what it is. But if there's an abscess in it and then fix it, cure it. And that's what the And that's why at times, The crying and the anger. That's the parallel of Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: But on the other side, we've We've taken care of it. And that's why it is so important to are things that are really troubling to cast a net of inquiry that may lead and we shove trauma underneath the that it generates, and then it stays Symptoms, they could be symptoms symptoms of overusing a substance. They could be symptoms of But they're pervasive symptoms that we can understand and fix. Andrew Huberman: In addition to ways to access the unconscious? Earlier we were talking about journaling in written or in spoken form, either Let's assume that somebody either can't where they're willing to do therapy yet. But they fully adopt this abscess you described, which I think is an have the 20-plus years of clinical But also, I think we all, at some level happening within us that we can't explain. And I, as a neuroscientist, can absolutely your head and the parts of it that are We love to think that we do, but we don't. It's just clicking away under there. So let's say somebody wants to make some of mental health, obtain more agency their life and their generative drive. What are some ways that they can And my guess is, if it's not in at in some of these other cupboards Paul Conti: Yes. Develop and embrace And if you can go for that curiosity, that you talk about these files from your past, that's so good, So someone who wants to understand Go look at pictures, talk to people reflect upon how you behaved at different Anchor yourself to memories and Become curious about yourself, This idea that sometimes Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: There are other not ego in a negative sense. Here, it means the ability to And to really think about oneself often able to either see the trauma, Like, why did I go from feeling felt like I could do anything? And then just a couple of I'm mopey in the pictures. And then, yeah, I was drinking more. I stopped taking care of myself. That's a pretty big change, right? So now we're calling attention. What's that change? And a lot of times, the person knew it. Like, oh, I got rejected. I had that terrible breakup. And they knew it was a shoving it under the surface. Maybe they didn't know it Maybe they can't figure out what it is. That's okay, right? Even if they recognize, look, there was what in this example is likely going on. So that person likely frames negative and always was true. Right? I can never achieve anything. I never feel good. No one likes me. I can't find a partner. Whatever it is we say to ourselves, Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: Because the negative emotion doesn't care about the clock and the and thinks, it was not always that way. Right? And it comes to this a lot in therapy. It doesn't have to be, But, no, I was a go-getter. Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: I'm thinking of the person I went out there and did things which lazy, incapable, all those things that So she needed, from that go back and question the givens. From our perspective, we're saying, Go look in that part of the Go look there. That's the deepest part, the most mean we can't understand it. And if we start to gain more about the conscious mind. Like, wait a second, What do I think about that? Andrew Huberman: Right. Paul Conti: Have I really Or is it just running What would I like to do about it? Maybe I'd like to learn more. Maybe I want to go get a book that I think that could help me, talk to a friend. Like, maybe I want to do those things. So now the flow between the mind becomes much more robust. And that lets us look further to look at that grow up out of the unconscious mind, them even though they're unconscious. So the idea of wait, when something engaging with the world kind of change? I was perseverant. And I would take some of that And remember, I could put it into And then that sort of shifted and and I started avoiding those of my of themselves and doing well, because That's a dialogue that is Now the person isn't going to sublimation, which is good, and then and avoidance, just as an example. But they're going to understand that to it, they understand that there was can understand that process of change. It's not opaque. They're shining light on it. And now they can gain a it and they can change it. Even that realization that I was much I mean, that can be a treasure trove and very positive information to Andrew Huberman: I think we often romance live life forward, who doesn't look their past, is just action oriented. Because after all, when we wake up is our actions going forward. We can't rescript the actions Paul Conti: That is such a we're just looking forward. We become like a sprinter who So if you think about the beginning best sprinters in the world, say, And if they come out of those blocks momentum, they will keep their form, But if they do not pay attention that are supporting their body. The whole bigger picture here of They have to know what They have to understand themselves. That's how they avoid coming out sprawling headlong onto the track. And we see that happen, too. So if we're just looking forward and life, we will be tripping forward, and No matter how great a sprinter, fast, you're going to trip forward. Andrew Huberman: Yes, I know I said this but I think a lot of people are afraid don't want the thing that they discover abscess, if you will, or the damaging they are aware of, but are pushing down, that doesn't allow them to be at least Paul Conti: If you go visit the by the surgeon, on postop day one, They'll be in a hospital bed. They won't be able to They won't be able to exercise. They're not going to feel their best. That's okay. It is okay that we, at times, can become In the sense that we're more upset, That's okay. Because that's part of the that gets us to a better place. Andrew Huberman: Ok so it's clear to me be and really is immensely valuable. I'm convinced. And I can't imagine anyone out there getting better mentally, being able consequence, is not a terrific use of seems to take us off course a bit in And I think it's also worth highlighting do an exploration of the unconscious for that matter, that our entire day of our sleep is going to disappear. I mean, we're not talking about devoted to exploring these cupboards. I mean, there are instances, of and they simply can't function. But in that case, the thing to look in these cupboards. Paul Conti: Yes. Andrew Huberman: What are some ways that the pillar of structure of self, which Paul Conti: So we can also approach We do a lot of things automatically Like, why do I do that thing? And it's amazing what that can provide. So, for example, I'm working with for a long, long, long time, didn't And there's so many other things this They're curious about things, they want in their family, but they had to stop Now he's fortunate enough He also earned. He's hardworking, he's diligent, he's He's been going to work And it was the thinking about it that made Why? Because it's rooted in unconscious bringing to the conscious mind. Because I value hard work But him stop working doesn't mean that He showed that for years and years and Like by he wants to be attentive There's a lot he can do. But he had to go back and look. And then, of course, there's a reason And even though it's not even a bad overvalue of hardworking diligent, and I've done enough that I've convinced I'm diligent, so I don't have to sort And I can step away. And now his whole life has changed. But how did the change come about? By asking what might one might think sense, like why do I go to work each day? Why have I been going? He's off on the road to change. It's one aspect of how we can It often leads us back to the awareness of our conscious choices. We can also then use tactics. So, for example, cognitive behavioral Like if I'm aware that, hey, there's a lot, and I start learning ways I thinking about it 100 times, right? And if I learn how to do that, there's comes from thinking about it and It's the basic premise of it. But these are techniques that can really and guiding the conscious mind. Andrew Huberman: I'm smiling because I have a female friend who, very a ton, is a recovered alcoholic for many great care of herself and the other people of humor and a bunch of other things. But it's probably five, six years ago that I don't recall what, and out of apparently And it just stopped me in my who keeps very, very busy. My schedule is extremely full with things I don't enjoy or enjoy less. But fortunately, at this point in my time, I was very busy with many things, And her statement just halted me. And I realized maybe I This whole notion of doing a bunch we have to make our way in the care of ourselves and others, but extra stuff that I was doing, right. Paul Conti: Because I think what she I hate being automatically busy, right And then it makes you think about, wait, me and how am I busy in ways that are not? Am I just taking up You start really thinking about it. Andrew Huberman: Yes. And the conversation stays with me to really thought about the possibility doing were truly a waste of my time. Mostly because I could be putting that Generative tribes, things that would bring delight, these sorts of things. What I'm giving as an example, I sitting down in a chair and asking one's schedule and what one's doing. Paul Conti: Same endpoint? Andrew Huberman: Same endpoint. And I bring it up because I think me in my tracks, but also the fact That means that it must have had had significance, because I think these news articles that come out. You know, woman or man, 104, reflects And it's almost always the same things. It's like close relationships. No one on their deathbed says, I I might be one exception. I actually really enjoy my work. So whenever I see that one, I always it would been a diminished life for me. I think there are others But I think it's very hard for us to person on our deathbed, looking back, I think there are ways to do that, but just think about what am I doing now? And come to some realizations about is of less value or no value now, opposed to doing the deathbed exercise. Paul Conti: You have no other option I mean, think about what a complicated it is to try and project ahead into a and it's like, what is that like? We can't imagine that and Whatever that situation may be for any of So then we just make something up and we way that gets us to this place where we're Okay? It just brings us right back to the That is so complicated. What are things going to What will happen between now and then? All things, I don't know. So it's impossibly complicated. So then you take it back Like what is it I'm choosing? I am the I right now that is moving life or whatever we want to say. So what am I choosing right now? That's how we make our lives better. And we're aware, of course, I lead towards a better future. I don't have a crystal ball. I can't envision what that's going to be. But I can do my best now to guide my to have to lead me to the best future. Whatever all the variables Andrew Huberman: The next cupboard of self is defense mechanisms. I have several questions about defense can we be aware of our defense mechanisms? And is there value in that? And if so, which defense And I guess the third question exploring defense mechanisms? Paul Conti: Well, it's sort of fantastical Part is underwater, part is above underwater come these sort of branches. So the way I imagine it is there are and have light pass through them Or they can be sort of twisted light that passes through them. Now they rise up from the unconscious they're automatic, but they're not outside They're in the unconscious mind. It's not that we can't understand there has to be a process of inquiry. But we can learn about them just things in the unconscious mind. And here again, knowledge is power. So I'm not going to learn anything new about my defense mechanisms if But if I start to think about things and to draw conclusions. How am I behaving now Do I notice that? How I'm coping? We'll often think coping, but coping How am I coping? What am I doing and what does it mean? For example, someone who after starts avoiding, can be doing Avoidance is a defense so or potential negative emotion. So self- reflection can help us understand and what may have changed in us. So an example, and an example we see had as a primary defense mechanism, And sublimation is taking energy, turning it into something positive. It's a good way of handling It's healthy, right? And now, after some change in they're drinking more and they're And you might say, well, Yes, they're soothing with alcohol in And oftentimes what you'll see is maybe they're mad at someone, they're punishing They get to have the short- term about themselves the next day, right? And the alcohol is in part a search acting out against the self, which mechanism that is not healthy. So the process of reflection or of branches that are coming up from the How are they in me? Are they arranged in a way that's sort of is passing through them, or are there Okay, what exactly is that? How do I go change that? I don't want that branch that is can't get through or is distorted. So I can go look at that. Because even though defense mechanisms myself, I can take away that, so Or that branch that's not healthy and That's how we can change Those branches of our defense mechanisms. Because even though they're unconscious, consciousness, and then bring ourselves And it can indeed get healthier. And as it gets healthier, it affects the person's character structure. So, remembering, we're using Because around the iceberg, below and come out of the part of the iceberg themselves, we're imagining that all of that, the unconscious mind, the And that nest is the character structure. It's a way that we contain and define It is into that nest that the self Because the character structure, it's It's sort of the conscious mind in action, things that are going on underneath the And then that's how we &quot;be,&quot; you That's how we are, or that's how we're engaging with the world. Andrew Huberman: So you described the is up above the surface of the water, unconscious defenses and all other Then you also said that the self, I don't recall the exact wording, of the self grows within that nest. Paul Conti: Yes. Andrew Huberman: And as you said that, of a nest that is either incredibly in its best ways and can give rise to peace, contentment, delight, generative I also imagined a nest that isn't as holes in it, or that isn't stable in Is that sort of imagery Is that a decent way Paul Conti: Yes, and I think The self nests in the character the character structure, it grows. We are the self that grows And that tells us a couple of things. One, I am something now, right now. The things I've done, the that have happened to me. Like there's a self now. So one might think then what grows Hence the concept of acceptance of self. That's what I am now. But I am also responsible I'm responsible for weeding it. I'm responsible for planting And I think that captures the truth This is what I am now. This is who I am now. But isn't it beautiful that And we know, as you'd commented, There's a lot of weeds. Things aren't going well. Things start to get unstable. That's not good. And we can go that way too, right? That's where agency, gratitude, part Because our unconscious mind is still And that's how we tend that That's how we best tend it, so that that we recognize in the way that We see a self that we can feel proud of. We see a self that we understand We see a self for which we have within us to understand that And it's from that self that Andrew Huberman: I've heard many times psychology and self-help and elsewhere, father ourselves to some extent, and I'm my understanding is that the unconscious mechanisms, the character structure, all the self resides and hopefully can grow, perhaps all stages of life, determined Nature and nurture. But this phrase, we have to learn around a lot these days, certainly And oftentimes that brings to mind sort And these stereotypes break Things like we have to be Self-respect, self-love, self-protection. Right? Healthy self-protection And all of that sounds fine and good, me if I'm telling myself I'm okay, or I don't know. It doesn't seem as concrete as would like because it's not spelling What you're describing here makes so of these concepts are a bit abstract, the self resides and emerges from see why it's so valuable, and it's and self-care to tend to that nest. And written into that is the fact we really can make changes, right? That we can create a better by going through these cupboards. Paul Conti: You're pointing out another the garden of self that grows up from tending the garden, I'm also responsible And that's so important if I'm going we've talked about, I'm going to tend out that I can see on the surface, me, to the entire structure of self. An example here that I think can imagine a person who's doing well. The part of the iceberg under The consciousness on top is solid. The defense mechanisms are garden of self is flourishing. And then there's a significant There's a car accident, someone is around them, they have a serious It can even be they spent too much news from murders around the world. And all the awful things that Something traumatic then goes The trauma happens, and what often often happens is the guilt and shame the trauma underneath the surface. Now, that's in the unconscious And that stability is threatened, right? I mean, it's all riding on top of underneath the surface of the water. And, okay, we don't have to worry too much if it starts to get fragmented, it starts rides on top of it, which is why taking all elements of the structure of self. Andrew Huberman: That all makes very key, and why we as individuals are really Of course, when one can, that who's a really terrific clinician And where one can't work with a would take a structured approach to about here and in the other episodes. Paul Conti: And keeping in mind. Keeping in mind that tending to whole structure of self, right? If we keep that in We'll pay attention to the surface, things that are under the surface. We pay attention to the We will shepherd ourselves Andrew Huberman: I'd love for you to second pillar that resides alongside geyser up into how we show up in the humility, agency and gratitude. But sometimes, no. And as we've established, there to exploring these cupboards. So how does one go about under the function of self? And we should probably start that cupboards under the function of self? Paul Conti: I'll start off by function of self will reference the There's a structure, and the It's good for us to have that in elements of the function of self. So the deepest element, let's is self- awareness, right? The sense of an I on top of that. Next up the pillar are Up from that is salience. What we're paying attention The next level above that is behavior, So if we go back to the bottom layer, it's the sense of self- And there are a lot of ways that So, like the unconscious mind in the fully understand what the I is, but we can So for me, thinking about what am and having in mind the structure unconscious mind working its way in me. There's my conscious mind. Even being aware of the first pillar awareness of the second pillar. Another way that can For some people, it can happen in There are many ways that we can living is an active process. That idea of the luge of time and process, and that is the I that We can foster self- awareness in trying to do here, the same as with pillar the most complicated parts. There's a lot that's unconscious. There's a lot that's unknown to us. So what we're trying to do is know some Bring some of those automatic conscious awareness so that we Because if we have an that to make everything better. Andrew Huberman: I can see right off how an exploration of the I is so critical. And realizing that we have a physical world to do least certain things. And in an earlier episode, you mentioned mirror and focusing on this reality, reside in it, and then we have agency. We can do things in the world as a Such an interesting practice, and one Paul Conti: Really? Andrew Huberman: Well, that evening. Yeah. And the next morning, after hearing it mind, and I encourage people to try it. It's done eyes opened. Just for a few minutes or so. Two, three minutes. In my case, some interesting understanding with thinking about some of my life So I highly recommend people explore I'm also interested in the sorts of I think everyone has narratives about less good at, what's happened to Could you tell us what you think Not just exploring the fact that we our stories about ourselves. Paul Conti: Well, self- awareness So we can use our conscious So this aspect of function of self That comes later. This is about the awareness of an I. So when you were talking about the the lines of, like, there's stories, it's the same me in these stories. If you approached the narrative like, there's an I, right? There's a me. Like, I'm the point of all these They're all in me in some way or another important enough that I wrote them down. If you look at it that way, where you're a me, to whom all of this applies. That's how we can use the conscious to foster self- awareness. It's not yet about meaning. It's about the awareness of an I. Andrew Huberman: So it's actually much At some level? Paul Conti: At that level, yes. Andrew Huberman: Got it. Paul Conti: Yes. Ok. Andrew Huberman: Well, then to this theme of narratives. Narratives that serve us, perhaps Meanwhile, take us into that second the defense mechanisms in action. I find these infinitely fascinating, too, because sublimation, denial, provide so much of what does and If you could tell us how we can think in a way that can improve our health. Paul Conti: Yeah, of course. Defense mechanisms are Defense mechanisms in action They're unconscious processes good understanding of by directing And this is a place where we use an understanding of self. So as an example, someone who's they want to do for a living, if they live, and who's thinking about self when I'm doing something for someone. When we hear this a lot, especially towards helping professions, like, It wasn't that it had a great salary. It wasn't that the hours were good. I like that it was really helpful were underneath of me in the hierarchy Right. And I think, right, and I love putting It can be a realization of self apprehending and thinking about Because altruism is a defense. It's a healthy defense where if you can Make something good. That's the endpoint of it. Like, you don't need that to It's a defense mechanism. It's a good one. And you can certainly see how it trying to build on top of it. And sometimes through that process of of that they haven't chosen jobs by the they chose jobs by -- where is the job? What does it pay? It wasn't that. That what they really valued and what have been something that they weren't And that leads them to the Another example could be Someone who thinks about their least kind of tell myself something And then ultimately I'm I tell myself, like, you're not really working hard enough. And then when I have that And that last person who broke weren't being a reliable partner, can lead to, oh, what's going on? I always think things are going That's guiding us towards And again, a person doesn't have rationalization as a defense mechanism. But there can be words put to that When this is done as part of therapeutic the defense mechanisms, and that can be Defense mechanisms result in patterns. So if a person just sees the pattern, pattern and either, say, follow the mechanism, or how do we work against, rationalization as a defense mechanism? Andrew Huberman: Can we conclude are the reflection of unhealthy that we like are the consequence Paul Conti: Usually, yes. It's worth some thought and some what exactly are the pieces of that? But basically the answer to that is yes. Andrew Huberman: In an earlier mechanism in action that is often This immediately sounds like So to keep with this concept of the are the underlying defense mechanisms. Would it be the case, for instance, of failures, that's a pattern, or is relationship in their life, maybe all other relationships are going friction with this one other person. So there's a pattern from that What. Is it important that they get to a verbal or what sorts of steps would one take to understanding of the defense mechanism, Paul Conti: The understanding of the but isn't always needed, right. If you can recognize a maladaptive a lot and it's not good for me, you So understanding the I mean, again, the more But it's not always necessary here. I think to understand the first define acting out. Because we think of acting something that's volitionally done. Right, but that's not Defense mechanisms are unconscious, so that the person can see by reflection. Because this isn't That's something different. That's bad behavior. But what we're talking about here is the until we bring it into our conscious mind. And acting out isn't Here's one example. So let's say in a relationship always does the dishes, other person That person does the dishes. And it's onerous. People have busy lives. It's onerous. Have to do a lot of dishes. And every time things aren't bit of conflict between them. The other person makes This is exactly the kind of thing that this little thing becomes a little crack there's a foot in the door, and now in these ways that we're not aware of. So again, the person isn't So that person has to do more work, And upon reflection, sometimes a person Or it's a real example person who difficulties around the house, I partner and was like, whoa, this person They love that person. They don't want to be doing that. But by realizing that when they can being more self- aware and saying, want that to be a defense anymore. If I have conscious awareness And maybe that person is Maybe the person says, you know, it I could contribute to a project and And I realize I don't do that. If I'm feeling in some negative what might the roots of that be? For example, did a parent Was that done to them where the If they were behaving in the right way And if not, well, you make it yourself, These things happen. And then the person gets in them. Some array of circumstances, feelings, on in the unconscious mind that then of acting out as a defense mechanism. So I think it's important to example because it is unconscious. And a lot of times how we're Andrew Huberman: What about salience, of self that I think we are all too to internally and externally? I have a sort of bizarre meditative about before on the podcast. I don't know why I came up with this, that I do from time to time, where if I focus my visual attention outward. I try and place on a horizon And other times, if I'm sort of in back into myself, I'll close my eyes traditional, what traditional means, The practice involves setting aside stepping through closed eye meditation. It's not really meditation again, it's contained within the skin of my body. Then I open my eyes, I look at my hand. This all sounds very And then I think about a bridge. Like my perception can be split between my Then I look out some distance, 10, I sort of bridge self- awareness I step out to the horizon. And then I sometimes like It goes with a popular meme, we're about myself right here, but then the spinning in space and then right back And I developed that a few years know about visual perception and inside, versus exteroception, just and perception of what's outside. But that's my practice of orienting like I have better buffers against much I'm reacting or not reacting. That's my practice. I have a feeling it touches into a few get at approaching a specific problem or beneath the surface that I'm not aware of. Paul Conti: Because it's only It's paying attention to salience, are grounding yourself in order And that is a strategy. You said, oh, maybe it's No, it's an understood and known strategy. For example, variations of that are attacks, to change the salience. If the salience is I'm going inside just have a feeling of awfulness, you yourself to the world around you. We tell people, place your hands of exactly what time it is. Look at the shape of a doorknob. Ground yourself so that Because now, as we move up the getting to using the conscious mind. Things that are salient to us can be they're internal, they can be conscious, So it's not all about the conscious mind, to bear here to think about salience, help us see what's under the surface. Most of the time, what we're doing What is going on inside of me? Which can be, what am I thinking? This is how the person can goodness, I'm saying to myself, X. And for the first time they say out said to themselves 10,000 times. Or it can be a feeling state. Wow, what's salient to me is a feeling then everything seems threatening. So salience, it's a form of self- conscious mind now to tend to that garden and say, what's really growing from it. Is it all things I like? It's going to be never all things But am I happy with it? Am I not happy with it? Are there weeds that are That could be the intrusive thoughts. So we're using metaphors, but The salience part is what And that's a very interesting Right. It's interesting because it's informative. Andrew Huberman: Do you think that's meditative-like states or setting about what am I thinking about? What am I paying attention to? How am I allocating my thoughts I guess we have to respect the We don't just walk around saying, there and then my thinking here. Paul Conti: We always want to be don't know that's respectful, that's Andrew Huberman: So I'm assuming cupboard of behavior, right? What we're actually doing is that cupboard on paper, in our minds, what we're doing like, how am I spending my time again? Not as an efficiency exercise, but and the mind for sake of building Paul Conti: The routes to most bringing the conscious mind to bear, There are some people who, they that when they're meditating. There are other people who they can really It's going on inside of them along with Some people find it in the shower, in the morning, or they find it when Or they might find it when they're And then they read it, and then thinking, they're a reverie, sort the best use of our conscious But again, we can think about that, Let me do more of that. It's interesting. We see people sometimes, I see people a to meditate to understand themselves. And it's like not working right. And it's like I must know how to Well, it's not necessarily true. It might be I must go on more hikes because that's how it works for me. So that process of reflection can be using our conscious mind to try and it to me, including understanding but I can understand a lot of it. And outward, what What are my behavior patterns? And to be reflective about that, to think Like, how am I spending What am I doing with my time? Am I wasting my time? Do I always get mad and say Why? Because I had a negative Am I doing that? Have I kind of changed since something nice to someone in the household, right. Or am I taking a lot better care Whatever X may be, Right. Doing more of the things I like... got... left that old job. It was so hard for me to leave. I do actually get myself to the gym. So it's a reflection upon self, because And that's very important. The example that often is you last brushed your teeth. And the answer by like a blank. Because you brush your teeth Most of us don't remember that So it makes sense. It lets us think while we're doing things. It lets a lot happen automatically Just as it happens inside But we can, there have sort of much is happening automatically And it's remarkable how sometimes might say, real example is, I don't week at the bar and I'm spending Why? Because I go home a certain way from And then I think, oh, I'll just And then I know that once I get in And I know once I have a drink, I'm going And I see this pattern of behaviors going to go to that bar instead of or my kids or whatever it may be, Because there, it's a great example of But once it starts happening, It's very, very hard. People don't generally realize, oh, my drink, and now I'm going to have two more. That's not the time. But the understanding, the reflection person to stop those behaviors, to their arms around them, shine the greater agency and greater gratitude. I'm grateful I can go home to choose to do, and I can do that. I do not have to end up at that bar, I'm going to drive a different way home. And if I can't get myself to do that, And if I can't do that, But I'm not doing that And it's a more dramatic example and not whole way up the list, from nuances of our Andrew Huberman: I've heard you describe other interconnected workings with the And we're in the backseat, of This idea that we're just being taken that we know we shouldn't go or that we there, and we have some idea, but we're It's not necessarily related to I mean, it can be, but what you're climbing out of the back seat and maybe into the driver's seat and going, oh, Of course, all of this is one mind. And in doing that, taking Paul Conti: It's about Where did it come from? That's how we get rid of it. How do we get back in the driver's seat? We don't grab the phantom and throw it It's ephemeral. We can't grab it. So how does it go away? It goes away through understanding. So very common example that the phantom have pushed in an unconscious place. And now that whole under the fragmented, and it's sort of roiling, And if we go at that problem off, right, that's the abscess. But it's a bad one. And it's spinning off a lot of problems. And that's why the phantom is in the are not built on top of that fracturing We see that a lot. The phantom could also It could be one defense mechanism over-relying on, and then we can So there are just a few examples. But if we sort of wake up in the the phantom is driving recklessly, the front seat is by understanding it. And I always imagine, poof, it goes away. Because now it's not I'm driving my life. It's gone. Andrew Huberman: The message that I'm is that no matter how well or how poorly that by looking in these cupboards under we can have so much more positive control. Paul Conti: Yes. That's why ultimately, what we're We can't help ourselves And the truth is that there So, okay, we want to go look at how things can go wrong, and But that's all wrapped in the best We can make it better. That's why the self, the garden of self, And the top of the function That's what comes next after behaviors. It's like, what are my behaviors doing? What am I doing? What am I striving towards? What am I doing, literally? Am I going to a job I hate? Am I doing things I don't want to do? Am I accepting treatment Am I treating people in How can I strive for better? And striving and hopefulness So the pinnacle of the The pinnacle of the And we can see how the What we're doing now is It's where it comes together. And your imagery of... That's where the geyser comes from. And we want that geyser to be healthy. It's a stream of clear, clean That's where our empowerment is. But empowerment is a condition of being. I am empowered. Empowerment rests within me. That's where humility Humility also something within me. I have humility. They're not verbs, but empowerment expression at the top of that geyser. When agency and gratitude, those verbs, Andrew Huberman: What you've drawn picture, because the picture It's a path to ideals. And you've been talking about these series, and they just encompass so much. And as you mentioned before, they are And a critical component of the agency and gratitude are these two Tell us a little bit more about we should view empowerment and Paul Conti: Well, empowerment is a state we're taking care of the pillars, right? So we're looking in the cupboards. We're doing the things that make This idea that, oh, that seemed like and there's a swamp there, right? Or that didn't seem like a good Oh, no. But there are good things along that path. So the map gets clearer as we pillars, and that empowers us. We're in a state. There's a state inside of us that are now skewed in a good way. That's what empowerment is. It's not something that happens. It's a state that we then The same is true of humility. Humility does not mean not acknowledging And we often can very much Like, is that person being weak? Is it false humility? Or people often who are acknowledge good things about them? Oh, no, I'm not that smart. That's not humility. Humility is consistent with truth. So if you keep saying you're not tells you that you're that smart. Then acknowledge that you're that smart. That's coming through the lens of truth. And we can go down to the pillars and person get to acknowledging that truth? So it's only by squaring away It is not denigrating ourselves. And we see that in a lot of people. I'm humble. And then that person often tells that's not good to accept. So humility is about acknowledging you have within yourself, good and bad. And here is where we can identify We have to have humility within us Just like I have to say, look, I'd then get myself in a more fit state. So saying, look, I can be a little bit I can be a little bit condescending, or hard to admit these things to ourselves. But if we have the humility to we also get to have that broader Like, wow, look how complicated I mean, these pillars are not simple. And when we go down to the it can get very complicated. So then we have a compassion Sometimes I'll say to a person, I should They think they should be And I will say to them, it's amazing I mean, let's start with, wow, It's not easy to navigate this world. And that kind of humility can what we build on top of it. It's not easy to navigate this world. And humans are pretty But I'm applying myself. And I'm proud that I'm applying myself like to be a little more compassionate. It's that sort of thing that So empowerment and humility are express themselves or become But they change into the active And agency and gratitude They're verbs. They're active. So that's the point of it. From the sense of how we are living. How we are being. That's why agency and gratitude But because there's a circular being is not the endpoint. If we're being in a healthy way, Peace, contentment, delight. We experience them because we are healthy. So we get to be through the We get to experience peace, And that makes a healthier us. The drives and their expression The generative drive is And the drives underneath of it, the We're really using that in a good way. And we're mining all of it within us. Like, I want to bring that to bear, That's very, very good. And the pleasure drive is active in us. I'm enjoying the things I do. I feel good about the things I do. I'm making good choices. And that state of health, what it stay clean and clear and healthy, right? But life is life. And the slings and arrows of outrageous life will continue to come at us at the pillars and the cupboards. And even if they don't come at us, But that's not bad, because by tending We bring ourselves back to the the active verbs of living. And here we are. In this cycle that if we pay attention ourselves, we use it to improve Andrew Huberman: How do you think about person, perhaps still am to some extent, gratitude in certain domains, maybe even there are certain areas of life that are This stark contrast, like this this stuff is just really hard. And maybe that continues long enough the person wonders whether or not maybe It's just never going How do you think about these carve outs of That's probably not the right language, it relates directly, I believe, to kind I mean, they are narratives, right? I think it's important to think about and perhaps even the consequence of about ourselves that we have internally. And again, I'll be the first to admit that Certain things I can do, And sometimes it felt outside Paul Conti: I have a very In fact, it's nine words. Don't make yourself special And we tend to do that as humans. Oh, I get to have A, B and I get to have professional success. And I'm in pretty good shape and don't get to have a relationship. I mean, over and over and over, so emotionally laden, it's the Falsely carved out the most. But it can happen in any arena special in a way that really is You have the machinery, the ability, things you want and get them right. That sounds like a pretty good really important to you. That can't be. We're applying the same machinery things people want in a broad scale. Like, I would like professional success. I would like personal success. I would like to do well in my family I would like romance. So we're talking about areas of self. And we will make ourselves special by magic or some cursed state that then tremendous consternation that will throw off balance because we don't like that. That seems mysterious and ominous. What is there that you don't so you can't have something. And then that makes anger and we'll act out or we'll be frustrated Sometimes a person can wall something forward with the rest of life. I mean, it affects them, It's not on their mind all the time. Which is why the process of self- things like, oh, I pretend that I success, and why do I do that? It's the only thing I'm not think it's impossible for me. It's not something I get. Why? Because I got other things. So I don't get that. Okay, now we're really curious about that. And sometimes it causes very, very big external sense of self that soothes can present in a certain way, but sadness or the pain of what is missing. But that is then sort And their feelings of self on people see on the outside. We see a lot of this. And the process of self- inquiry, of self can lead us to realize what we've Or it can help us to see that It's as if you said, well, there they're all just regular old roads. I can drive on eight of You said, well, it doesn't make It requires the same set of skills, right? If you know how to drive the car and you be able to drive down the ninth? But even though that's a very mundane to very important and emotionally I get to have physical fitness but I don't get to have love. I mean, we hear people say this. And that's a very powerful way we want to achieve in life. It takes us away from the active the good that comes of that. Andrew Huberman: What you just said the point that if we have nine roads eight of them, why not the ninth? Because it places us back into the of the car like we're a vehicle. The I that we can take through the world. Sure, conditions matter. Maybe road number nine has boulders one through eight were all just Those had challenges and we -- I'm I, for whoever is doing this sort of work around those boulders, right, of These are all things I've experienced. And of course, people come into the world privilege and accessibility, et cetera. We don't want to deny all of that. But those other eight roads are rarely, Paul Conti: That's why it's And it's the realization that if I the first eight, I can bring myself And as you're pointing out, it's not Maybe one of them was But there's going to be a couple really strong difficulties, things And it's from that place of understanding the strength to go down the ninth road. Even if we see greater I'm aware now, but I'm also aware that The boulders and the potholes, In fact, I'm kind of worried But it can't be impassable, right? If there's boulders there, I'll or I'll fill in the potholes. And that's how we get ourselves to go Like, I'm afraid of doing that. If I weren't afraid of doing it, I But I now realize what the truth is and And I'm going to bring That's also when we recruit often say, let me tell a couple of good or a therapist or a trusted other and And that's often how in making more with the people around us. And then the support from someone else support given back to the other person. And this is also how we Is that the path to travel down We don't have to travel alone much of wasn't in the person's mind, right. They perceive it's a It's like, great, you have two friends. Andrew Huberman: Yes, certainly. Where I've been able to travel down a desire to go down that road, recognition take on the whole thing all at once. And then finding really good to avoid people that seemed That were going to throw toxic and that's putting a lot on them. But it just felt as if going down those to spend time on and with people that And at the same time, there have presented themselves with examples. I think this is where it comes to mind. It's not always the case that you can do this and here's why. Or a therapist that says you But that there are examples in the world I think when we have challenges in a speak, I know for myself that I know I'm reflexively orient towards others that Like, oh, I recognize this other one through eight but not nine. And it occurred to me during the why not pick different examples? Paul Conti: So if you're going on a journey and it's a difficult Bring good people. Have them on your journey, And then you think, well, why would If I were going on a journey and it's see amazing things along the way. I can bring a couple of people with me. I don't want to choose a couple of people world around them, and some that won't Why would one choose that? It comes back to the self, right? If a person, now we're Because it's the journey of life. If a person is choosing to be on the journey with you. It's because you don't think And if you think that you're worth You'll say, I want other people like me. I'm going to be diligent, So I'm going to surround And if we look beyond ourselves at groups we are, the more we ally with healthy Because we're making ourselves healthy, The journey is better for all make the whole culture better. Potentially, this is how we can But it has to start somewhere. So it has to start with the I. Andrew Huberman: I love, love, love the a journey that's really meaningful, to with good people, this is actually a and online communities is actually I think it's easy for us self-help and things like that. On the other hand, there are communities but for which I and many other people of reassurance and confidence, right? Because a lot of people are isolated. They might have access to one or two really value, but those people are Or I can remember being a student undergraduate, feeling very much against Too much partying for me at the time, was a lot of partying around me. And had I been a better student have been able to healthily engage So, feeling pretty isolated, So in that case, it was one professor, of a lot of books and music that, Nowadays, I'm fortunate to in my life of amazing people. But I just want to mention that because I and the various practices, I think there that woman, that man that's alone in a I see the grocer once a week and I see my And how to start to access some Paul Conti: Navigating the online It comes down to understanding and choice. So if we're understanding as best we then we'll find great things online. There're great things to find online. Same is true of life. If we're searching for something that, around acting out, around things that make instead of thinking about how we can ourselves in a different direction. That's life. If we understand and we choose ourself to better places. Andrew Huberman: Such an important question that I, and I'm certain many, And not just anger from Like somebody said something and we see, stuff that we observe in other people, words against other And I think many people feel yanked around and they can't get it out of their head. Now, there could be all sorts of why we can't get it out of our head, But according to the map of mental health that get in the way of that generative our well-being and the well-being of drive is about learning, creation, and Tell us about anger and how from a frame self-care, we should think about our anger perhaps even help us and not harm us. Paul Conti: In order to really important, we have to define three words. And the word to start with is affect. So affect is aroused in us, meaning So anger is an affect. It is aroused in us. The idea being that if a person is jumps in front of them and shoves They don't choose to be angry. In fact, the body reacts and has all sorts person even realizes that they're angry. So we can't control what is aroused We can in the longer term. If I have a short fuse and I get control that in the next ten minutes. Meaning the affect that's aroused in but I can't change what's created in me. But if I'm living a better life, generative drive is better expressed. I have more pleasure in my life. Then what happens is the anger start to arouse less anger. So by taking care of ourselves, we arouse Okay, the next word is feeling. Right again, there are different we're defining them, affect is aroused. Feeling is when we take that affect next thing that happens on the way up. Because the arousal of affect comes up, the next thing it does So this is where the classic something, they are angry. That thing is spilled, Then they become aware, and and say, what a dummy, right? What a jerk. I'll never do anything, right. They say it inside, right? Because the anger gets Now, how would we like that to better care of themselves? So when they spill something, And by the time it gets to so it's easier to manage, and All the other aspects of the pillars Then the person is better able to and then to say, okay, everybody whatever, and then to clean it up. And the person doesn't have to So affect feeling and then emotion. So emotion is when we relate others in the world around us. So, for example, a person might spill now they get to the feeling part, but and they don't think they're responsible So they just keep that load of until they get to emotion. And then they decide, that And that's why maybe they kick the something mean like, this happens. So if it happens a lot, like this is A lot about negative emotions. There can be dramatic examples, but winding their way through our lives. And the better we take care of ourselves, have and the better we cope with it. When it gets to the level of the I and And if we think about prosocial inaction of anger on a large scale, if a lot of anger there, it is very easy Oh, the problems are that those people who aren't like me. That's where anger is So the idea of having the negative affect and the control mechanisms, keeps us from of you, and then working in ways that And this, I think, also relates We can find online everything So then we have a choice. Are we going to work on understanding about how we're engaging in the world? And if we're choosing the good things, and we're better sort of citizens units, and ultimately of our societies. Andrew Huberman: I've observed Certainly I'm far, far from perfect. I have thousands of flaws, and in ways that I wish I hadn't. A common observance I've had about a lot of valuable time is wasted. Instead of placing my efforts within things that I really value, the And I've seen this a lot, not just on have seen it is when I was a graduate some interaction either between them rarely, but more often it was about postdoc and someone in the outside world. And so they'd come in and And there's a tendency to try and support But then it was like this would just would be sitting in their chair. It was really upsetting. And sometimes these were really upsetting some time and just really stopping. But often I felt like things just kept like halfway through the day, and again, it more than I felt it, certainly. It's like, wow, that's a perhaps even weeks and months. And then there's the sleep I think that's one of the things about that's new and unique, is that it used or we go home from work, something didn't have access to more incoming. People weren't calling you on the phone, or talking about others in ways that to do now is pick up social media. And if you're not really deliberate and on the internet and which news scroll past, that can be accessible about the thing that was angering you And requires elevated levels of diligence. Paul Conti: Right. High levels of anger bring volatility serve anyone or anything well. Lower levels of anger can be healthy. I'm angry at that, and I want to at that, and I'm going to have my vote in it or whatever it may be. Lower levels of anger are okay. They can inform us, they But when we get to high levels of The person ceases to then be effective. And here's an example. When you were telling me about how you And how your agency and your gratitude the peace and you're delighted, and the And then I had said, what if we right, to kind of make the... And then your response was like, oh, Because there you're doing something at your best, firing on all cylinders. So even a little bit of anger is too much. But it's a good example because this thing that is so good for you. You're living in the place. If you could have all of existence be You could bring it to all Like, that's the nirvana we're going but we could throw it off and ruin it So it's an example that models for us in situations that are not so rarefied, somebody blurting out, somebody attacking shouldn't, somebody making a bad decision. Anger isn't good for us at high by making ourselves healthier. Then we make less of it and we ourselves at the low to moderate Again, no, anger is not good. High anger is not good. Let's try and live in the low range. Occasionally, something is very That's where we have Andrew Huberman: When we set out on health, I had no expectation that you of how to explore our inner territory crisp and clear ideals of states and Nor did I know anything about the drives that reside within us. In thinking about self-care and in that people are challenged with Not just anger, but things like dejected, tired, confused, stuck. And then I wrote, infinite I mean, there have to be an infinite an infinite number of circumstances, of those things that people face all seem like a giant oppressive And yet, what you've provided is really a certainly includes a lot of complexity the structure of self, function of self. But you've directed us toward looking those cupboards, as a way to arrive simplicity, empowerment, humility, agency, And this incredibly attractive thing, accessible to any and all of us. Paul Conti: It's there in every one of us. Andrew Huberman: In providing And again, I want to remind people that well in life, maybe even in all domains experiencing challenge in any or perhaps cupboards is clearly of immense value. And you've so graciously spelled out how Really, it sounds like all it requires is do better, and a willingness to explore. Paul Conti: Curiosity, right? If I had to summarize the whole thing in Because curious opens Curiosity about self, curiosity about Andrew Huberman: Well, what you've it's something that I know that I and take on as a positive set of goals, really for always, right, for living Never before have I been presented with power and potency to do good as this. Paul Conti: That's great. I'm happy to hear that. Andrew Huberman: Well, And I really want to thank you on for sharing with us your time, your structure specifically for this series. And for lack of a better Paul Conti: Thank you. Andrew Huberman: And I'm sure that and tons of experiences of their and they can share that with us. And that's one of the wonderful things to the comments on YouTube or elsewhere. Really, the comments on YouTube questions and comments and feedback. And perhaps going forward, we relationships and ways to improve Paul Conti: Yes, yes, this has been great. It's been invigorating and Andrew Huberman: Thank you for all about true self-care with Dr. Paul Conti. This marks the ending of the fourth all about mental health, with Dr. Conti. You can access each of the episodes it's linked out to all formats. And regardless of whether or not still in the process of digesting you found it to be as enriching and And on behalf of myself and Dr. Conti, I want to thank you again If you're learning from and or subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero-cost In addition, please subscribe to the And on both Spotify and Apple, you Please also check out the sponsors throughout today's episode. That's the best way to If you have questions for me or comments like me to consider hosting on the in the comments section on YouTube. I do read all the comments, and if you're I am Huberman Lab on all platforms. So that's Instagram, Twitter, And on all those platforms I discuss some of which overlap with the content much of which is distinct from the So again, it's Huberman Lab Not on today's episode, but on many Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary tremendous benefit from them for hormone support, and for focus. If you'd like to see the supplements can go to livemomentous, spelled O-U-S. So it's livemomentous.com/huberman. If you haven't already subscribed to our called the Neural Network newsletter. And in the Neural Network summaries as well as toolkits. The toolkits are brief PDFs that protocols for things like improving dopamine, deliberate cold exposure. We have a complete summary of available completely zero cost you. Simply go to hubermanlab.com, go to and provide your email to sign up. We do not share your email with anybody. Thank you for joining me and Dr. Paul Conti for today's episode. And last but certainly not least, [Closing theme music]