While most people know the world's two how many major engine makers would you There are indeed a handful of companies producing Due to the diversity in jet engine applications, Apart from their own products, some of these various engine programs to benefit from the Apart from engines for commercial technology is also used in industrial and And when it comes to commercial aviation, a handful of manufacturers (and the jet engine market. Today's video will So the first company we'll This is an American company and jet engine manufacturers. The Rolls-Royce and Pratt &amp; Whitney in In addition to its product the company also partners with other engine the form of CFM International) and Pratt &amp; Headquartered in Evendale, Ohio, the company has and industrial engines. The company's GE90 engine, which powers the Boeing 777, holds the engine in service. The engine generates The company's most prominent engines GE Passport, and GE9X. there's An interesting fact about a GE Aerospace product: The GE9X (yet to enter service with the Boeing most powerful engine, with the highest The second company we'll mention is Rolls-Royce. This is a British multinational manufacturer of second-largest aircraft engine maker behind its RB211 and Trent family of engines. power the world's largest commercial Major commercial products are as follows: 767, Lockheed L-1011, Tupolev Tu-204). Trent 700 (Airbus A330), Trent 600 (Boeing 777), Trent 7000 (Airbus A330-neo), and finally, the An Interesting fact about Rolls-Royce: With the company powers over 35 passenger (not yet in service) is the world's Third on our list is Pratt &amp; Whitney This American aerospace giant is a subsidiary of Raytheon Technologies (RTX). The company The JT9D engine was the first to power Its successor, the PW4000 series, powers a variety Pratt &amp; Whitney, along with its industry turbofan engines (GTF), which power the Airbus Apart from its Engine Alliance joint venture known as International Aero Engines. This includes Some of the manufacturer's prominent The JT8D/9D, PW300 for business and GP7000 (which you'll find on the Airbus A380). With over 16,000 commercial engines installed, Pratt &amp; Whitney powers more than 25% of the 4th on our list is CFM International. CFM International (CFMI) is a 50/50 France-based Safran Aircraft Engines. The build the CFM56 series of narrowbody deployment on Boeing 737 Classics As of 2022, the CFM56 engines powered nearly CFMI developed the Leap engine to power the A320neo family, the Boeing 737 MAX family. The The company's only in-service products engines. The company is working on the and Sustainable Aviation Fuels but this has planned to power Boeing's X-66 Sustainable Flight The CFM56 engine offers some of the lowest The company holds approximately 40% of the world's And finally, 5th on our list is As mentioned earlier, IAE is an engine consortium This group was established in 1983 Fiat Avio of Italy, MTU Aero Engines, and the the company rolled out its first engine, The Roman numeral "V" symbolizes the Fiat Avio exited the program early on but remained Rolls-Royce sold its share of 32.5% to Pratt &amp; the consortium with 49.5% stake. The rest 50.5% is remains a supplier of what became one of the most The V2500 engine directly competes with the Therefore, the engine's performance is such as the Airbus A321. The engine for airlines that use the A321 aircraft. A320 family jets. The military version of the The only commercial product that the company has the commercial version of the engine also While the company was working named the SuperFan, the plan fell geared turbofan engine was planned to The V2500 is among the best-selling engines in the been produced since its launch. As of March 2023, which account for, on average, 16 What are your thoughts on five of the largest commercial engine manufacturers in the you a fan - or 'tubo'-fan of? Share simple flying publishes over 150 looking for the latest Aviation news