If you're making a platformer, you've Because sloppy physics, unresponsive controls, toxic in platformer design. So it's vitally important that you get this And if you wanted a character to learn from, - a twenty-something wannabe mountain climber, platformer, Celeste. Her controls are tight, precise, and responsive. You can put her exactly where you want, and and accuracy. And the game not only works at a super casual deep into Celeste's toughest challenges. So how, exactly, is this achieved? Well, to figure it out, I went on a bit of I pulled apart the game's code. I went frame-by-frame on Madeline's animation. I chatted to Celeste speedrunners. And I spoke to a couple people who know the MATT: I'm Matt Thorson, director and co-creator NOEL: I'm Noel Berry and I'm programmer and And so, after all that, here's what I learned So let's go back to the very beginning and A character's run can be split into three As in, once you start moving the stick, how speed? And how long does it take to stop, when you Getting these two curves right is especially Keep them short and the character will feel Make them long and the character will feel Meat Boy - and slippy and uncontrollable to That game generally feels great to play, but at times. In Celeste, Madeline has ultra short acceleration It takes her about six frames to get to full than Super Meat Boy. And she comes to a stop in just three frames Super Mario Bros U. Those digits are just high enough to make being able to do huge standing jumps - but what you tell her to do. You're very rarely going to slip off the Her top speed is relatively low, too. And unlike Mario and Meat Boy, there's no I think this is just fast enough to feel fluid, at all times. We can do a similar process with the jump. First, we calculate the character's jump to their own body size. So in New Super Mario Bros U, Mario can jump while Meat Boy can jump massively high, to And then we can look at each character's This also gives us a total jump time. So Meat Boy has a tall and lengthy jump, making Yarny from Unravel, on the other hand, has making this wooly rag-doll feel surprisingly Madeline, again, sticks to the short end of She goes up and down very fast, but with quite And she can jump to about three times her jumps around. Like her run, these numbers are enough to but about as far from floaty as you can get. There's more that makes Madeline's basic There's the fact that she can change direction And how she has massive amounts of air friction, mid-air, she'll almost instantly fall straight That makes it easier to land precisely where And then there's the more fundamental design Celeste is a zoomed-out game, where - at times This means that the screen isn't flipping easier to be precise with your runs and jumps. If Madeline is the only thing moving, it's The devs did have to compromise on detail think it was worth it. Now, Madeline's movement is entirely hard-coded, of Microsoft's XNA framework. So the devs didn't use the built-in gravity engines like Unity and Game Maker, as they player's input. So I asked Matt and Noel how they came to MATT: A lot of it was intuitive, a lot To get a sense of what you want a platformer NOEL: And a lot of it was just experimentation, right? Like trying things and getting people to playtest and seeing like &quot;oh that did not work as intended&quot;, so be better. MATT: And it changed a lot through development Lots of little changes - even big changes. NOEL: And like in regards to how the pacing should you be stopping and when should you The mechanics changed to kind of like make that all feel So those are the basics, but there's way moves you can use when scaling the mountain. One is the climb. Hold the trigger and Madeline will snap to off for a springy wall jump. Unlike Meat Boy, who slides up walls uncontrollably, Climbing is dictated by a stamina system - Madeline's shown to the player, and they depreciate at holding still, climbing, or doing a climb The other move is the dash. Hit the dash button and Madeline will fire She can only dash once in mid-air - elegantly you'll either need to touch the ground or The dash does take control away from you, max speed. But that's only for the first 0.15 seconds From there, she slows down and you're given of the dash to stop yourself flinging into This gives the move more nuance and expressiveness, Celeste's PICO-8 precursor. With these three mechanics - the jump, the resource-management puzzle of managing vertical different moves. A jump here, a dash there, on to the wall, your dash, before jetting off again. Each move has its own feel, speed, and level ever-changing pace. All part of the developer's plan, as it MATT: Like, a lot of problems in Celeste can Like you could either dash or you could climb. There's some where you could only use one combinations. But the dash was always supposed to be the to control, whereas the climb is more methodical It's not just the numbers that makes Madeline's sound effects help sell the feeling, too. Like the squash and squeeze on her jump, which The way tiny dust particles kick up, and the to sell the impact. The four-frame pause and microscopic screen movement feel even more heightened. And the trail of shadows and the blazing white Celeste isn't a bonkers Vlambeer-style juice do a lot of heavy lifting in making the game inputs and actions. While Celeste is a very hard game at times and cassette tapes, and B-Side levels, and generous to the player, with an untold number make the game way less punishing. The most famous, perhaps, is the way you can - and still spring into the air. This is called Coyote time, named after the run off platforms and keep sprinting in mid-air. But there are loads of others hidden in the Dashing into a corner won't bonk you into the edge of the platform. Spikes have a small hit box, so you won't These traffic light blocks will still grant on the button press. If you do a climb jump but quickly push away jump and refunds the stamina. And if you jump just before touching the ground, command when you land. NOEL: Because it feels bad if you press and just touch the ground and there's nothing. You want it to feel like &quot;no, I pressed the the game messed up, like the game missed your don't want that, you want to feel like you're what you want it to do. And when you do mess like "how do I solve this problem and execute the game's has killed me&quot;. MATT: It's like working on the player's of pressing buttons at the correct time. NOEL: And the cool thing too about that is for actually really pro players, people who get really really good at it, it does come down frames off of a ledge, and you can still jump&quot; game feel better. But then for pro players who actually are trying to get execute something perfectly, then they get frames so I can use those to get across a MATT: They abuse it NOEL: Yeah. So you still get that frame perfect players it just feels better. It's a good point, and boy have players movement code. I asked TGH, the world's top-ranking Celeste techniques he uses to turn the game's toughest First, there's the dash-cancel, where a second and turned into a massive jump that of the dash. Do this while crouching and you'll get the You can extend these two moves by separating Madeline regains her dash in mid-air. And "for even more speed", says TGH, "after down-forward to chain momentum, and in some This is known as an ultradash. You can also dash cancel upward along a wall Which is called an up-hyper or wallbounce. There are other techniques too, and TGH says techniques come together and work so well That's likely because almost of them are are even taught to you in the game. Not that I can actually perform them, mind It was important to Matt and Noel that Madeline's tricky, well-designed levels to explore. After all, this was one of the key suggestions give to someone making their own platformer NOEL: Just make sure that the moment to moment there with a controller, the room could make that feel good MATT: With no goals or anything, just make I remember playing Mario Sunshine and just it was just fun. NOEL: You can flip off stuff and all these things. interactive things that just feel fun. But making levels - and adding in new mechanics blocks, pelting wind, and kamikaze hotel owners movement code, and change how things work. MATT: We decided early on what we wanted Madeline defintiely changed, and then the levels also So you basically get the player character not perfect, you know you have to do testing So you make a bunch of levels and then you test, to change&quot;, and then you have to change 20 You have to let different parts change and let it slowly reveal what it wants to be. NOEL: And you have to be willing to throw away stuff sometimes too. Like &quot;this is a cool idea and a cool direction but it wasn't It's progressing what the game is because and figuring things out so even though it's a learning experience that ultimately MATT: Yeah, it's still work that goes towards manifest as content. It becomes part of your knowledge that you Now, Celeste shows a great way to do very just one way to do a platformer. Tweak those curves and you can get very different Inside, or the intense air-control of N+. Or Sonic games, which are all about building that Sonic has a ridiculously long acceleration a complete stop. Still, I think Madeline's a really good character design. Matt and Noel's work shows the importance basic movement. Adding mechanics that introduce very different Using feedback to emphasise movement. Being forgiving about pixel precision. Increasing the skill ceiling with advanced And not being afraid to test, tweak, and toss getting this stuff right. Thanks so much for watching. There's a post on my Patreon now where I talk episode, and those who back the show at $5 Matt and Noel right now. MARK: Did you come up with the term MATT: No, that was a player, I think. Wasn't it? NOEL: I don't know, actually MATT: I think it was in the PICO-8 one, a that's a good name. NOEL: I've heard it used for other platformers MATT: Okay. I think it comes from players. Which is cool, I think developers should take it. NOEL: Yeah, it's a good word. Sounds like we need to do some detective work. Please remember that the GMTK Game Jam begins this YouTube channel for more info. And don't forget to subscribe and hit the to keep appearing in your sub box. See ya later.