Car payments have reached years, and Americans are The average payment on a April 2019 and April 2024. Some people will look at you kidding me? I mean, that's basically a people. You know, we. Always had this idea that a that was attainable for We're clearly we've moved Blame it on high interest prices caused by pandemic The good news payments have expected to fall further. We've reached. A peak. We've turned a Uh, however you want to say is going to get better. The relief may only be short Longer term, industry questions about the headed in. Vehicles were to the pandemic, as pumping out cars for the of selling fewer, pricier profits. Many in the here to stay, meaning a lot be locked out. Here are a few numbers that become. Just ten years ago, half of what they are The average is $760 a month customers pay more than are paying over 1000 a straight quarters. The idea you're going to month for the next six I mean, it's just it just depreciating asset. It is. Almost like borderline. Disturbing how acclimated idea that, you know what, You know, I've got 1000. I've got all these dollar say, hey, that's my rent. Hey, that's my mortgage So payments are high. And it's not just because Car payments rose twice as from 2019 to 2024. Two things drove this high rates. High prices hit the where dealers can pretty can get for a car. But soon they made their which was hit by a severe parts. As manufacturing during the Covid pandemic, everywhere. First of cars semiconductors in 2021 and With supply so tight and automakers didn't need to Charging at or above MSRP Anyone who bought a car the last four years paid Those same expensive the segments that today are amount of depreciation. So you might have somebody ago, they went to a got a fantastic vehicle, come back and they didn't market has evolved. And then of course there are Anyone shopping for a new amount of sticker shock the car. Along with that The Federal Reserve set its and a quarter to 5.5% in That isn't the actual rate loan or mortgage, but it of borrowing. Today, auto 7%. In March 2022, before rates, they were closer to That's a significant jump. Not only are people paying loan, but they're also the car. So that combined loan rates makes car challenging for a lot of these days. In addition, an alarming a segment of borrowers. Those who decide to get a driving is worth less than Something called negative The average amount on those high in the first quarter Almost 25% of purchases negative equity, nearly 10% years earlier. Rolling that negative with bigger payments at longer terms, and trade ins have only gotten more What makes it worse, though, loan 2 or 3 years ago, So if you do have negative the next payment, it's not more favorable terms. Like unless you get a automaker, you're really because again, at seven 8%, that first year's payments, You're not going to dig And finally, consumers want And carmakers have Because structurally, the this direction for many, They've been abandoning points. So it's just all to kind of lead vehicle little bit. Good news for the consumer down. Us production is back up, dealer lots and incentives to 2024. You should be able to get a were, uh, say 12, 18 months So there's some light at But the payments that those higher priced anytime soon. Even if interest rates were six month lag. However, in the meantime, likely continue to offer those prices down. But different shoppers are based on their own types or brands of cars And so there are still deals You just got to do a little bit more homework, you manufacturers that really compete quite aggressively. Consumers with higher credit better loan terms. So if you have excellent going to do better than loan rate. Over the longer term, larger could continue to push Just a decade ago, the was $32,386, which was As of April 2024, average $48,510. Sticker prices are prices dealers are paying. Automakers vehicles cheaper. In addition, the on EVs from China to 100% precisely in order to hold from the country. These the auto industry to wonder lower for the foreseeable continues to shift towards and charging upscale Are we going to get back to sales that we saw for five 2019, or our interest rates keep the equilibrium level previously. So our getting more profit per to try and gain market as many vehicles as