This video is about an experiment the unexpected result I got when I did it. Have you ever had a simple question ruin your Of course you have, right? Like, it's perfectly normal to spend months over a question that no one else cares about. Like, does light actually slow down in water? I know you probably think the answer is obvious, that in high school, but I've never really Like, it just seems odd. In Einstein's theory of relativity, the speed Like, no matter where you are in the universe find light to be travelling at the speed c. Except in a glass of water. I mean, how can that actually be true? I stopped worrying about it for a while because answer, until recently when I realized that it takes for light to travel using And insanely, that technology just happens Yeah, seriously, this bit of the phone that the time it takes for light to bounce off My phone uses that incredible technology just Insane. So of course I tried to do this experiment. Okay, it's angry. No surface detected. Come on. This is ridiculous. Uh, yeah, so that didn't work this time, but me the answer. It was just understanding that answer that The issue is that common explanations for even the uncommon explanations for why light So maybe light doesn't actually slow [00:02:00] Incredibly, that's exactly what one of my We'll get to that, but first let's deal with Let's start with some explanations for why You've probably heard them in school, but I think the most common one, and the one that have this light. And when it travels between water molecules, But, what happens is when it bumps into a for a little while, and then later on released, And this adds enough time lag to the whole Light does sometimes get absorbed by molecules, because when light does get absorbed, what from, and it gets re emitted in any random And so if we let it get re emitted, overall the light doesn't go in a straight out into all kinds of directions. And so when you look at light in water, you line, it spreads out. That's not what we see, and so that can't Another reason you can tell this is false frequencies of light. That means only specific colors of light would else should still travel at the speed c. But that's not what supposedly happens. Every type of light gets slowed down by water. There's another common explanation that goes And this one says that what happens is the but it knocks into the molecules and ricochets Which means that its path ends up being a You can see that this has the same It would mean that light should completely One thing to note about both of those wrong as a little particle like this. Which, I can tell you, is almost always the Like, yes, in some specific circumstances, of particle. And so I think that this is really an unhelpful And instead in this video, we're going to later. But anyway, going back to those explanations, then what are some other common explanations There was this other one that kept coming In the videos I'd seen they'd usually make The first two turned out to be correct and third turned out to be Here they are. When you shine light into water what happens through the water completely unaffected but by the light, and because of the light, they When you add up the original light plus all supposedly get light that's travelling slower. Yeah, when I started this, I didn't understand And to get it, I had to go right back and For that I turned to my two favourite textbooks and Interactions And in the process I learned We usually use the letter C to represent the But, I'd argue it shouldn't be called that, it should be called the or even better, how quickly one thing can For example, imagine [00:06:00] this is the The earth is being held in its orbit around You might have heard, though, that if the wouldn't immediately be flung out into space. Instead, it'll take about eight minutes, and Why is that? It's because the message that the sun has speed, which is the speed C. another. C is actually the maximum speed in the universe, travel faster than C, then you could use it not allowed. I used to think it was kind of a coincidence speed of causality. Like, maybe it was just because light was But actually there's a really good reason look at this next example. Let's say I have these two electrons. Now this electron feels a force because of But say I picked up this one and I accelerated Would this electron immediately know about force that it feels? No, right? Because it needs to wait until the message But what's actually delivering that message? This is the key part. Light is the messenger. Whenever a charged particle accelerates, it C. light sends, that's when I felt like I really Light's whole purpose is to harass charged Imagine that I push this electron up and down, shaped like this. Here's what that means for the other electron If the light [00:08:00] gets up to here, then how strongly the electron is going to get And then, as the light travels, it punches as it passes here, it starts and upwards again, and then downwards. The net result is that as this light passes, Basically light is a packet of electrical Incidentally, this answers a question that If light is a wave, then what's waving? We're used to thinking about waves as something medium that's sloshing about. But that's not the type of wave that light Light is just a wavering of how strong the You can see that at this point in space right a little [00:09:00] bit later... It will point even further up and then later It's this field strength changing over time. Here I've represented it with these poorly of like these forces and how they change over But usually the way you represent light is the exact same thing. This wave is just capturing how strong the up so it looks a little bit nicer and so you'll traveling through space, but it's the same The thing that's waving is the strength of Back to our poor electron, we know that as and down. But, we know exactly what happens to oscillating They're accelerating, so they're making light. The light that this [00:10:00] electron makes that originally hit it. Except it's in the opposite direction and But what's the effect of these two bits of Well let's look at it from the perspective line. Is it going to experience two separate pieces Well actually no, because remember light is So when this piece of light tries to push is going to be trying to push it upwards, You can see that that happens everywhere. When this one pushes up, the other one pushes And so it's like this one slightly negates It's actually a really similar effect to how So when the headphones detect a particular which is in the opposite direction. The crazy thing is, when you add sound. And that's what this electron is doing as When it gets hit with light, it hits back the original. So that was my mini crash course in light, to figure out whether that explanation about any sense. Remember, the first bit was that this light by the water and goes right through. So far, we know that that bit is correct. And then it says that The electrons that are their own light, which makes sense because all of these electrons jiggle up and down And it is true that each of these electrons When you add the original light with the light would expect something interesting to happen. I mean, we've already seen that when waves cancel out. But the YouTube videos in particular would when you add this piece of light that's traveling light that are all also traveling at the speed that isn't travelling at the speed c. This is the original light, and this is what And you can see that they're moving at the to each other. In other words, they always keep in time with Now let me just add them together and the relative to the original pieces of light and two. When I saw these animations I couldn't [00:13:00] that I had to accept it because they'd shown But here's the insane thing. When I was making this video, I finally tried just to see for myself and like to understand So I did it exactly the way that they said Here we got the original light and the electron we're just going to add them together. And they don't move relative to each other. I was so mad when I realised that these things You can't add two pieces of light that are that's going slower. It just doesn't work mathematically. And they usually mention the difference between point to try and explain how this could work, I had to go and try and understand what those phenomena is only relevant if you already speeds. So, what the hell. You won't believe this, but as I was trying what was going wrong, and it's actually kind it. Basically, I think that they accidentally Here is this electron wave, and it's supposed Which it is right now, but if I accidentally though the wave looks like it's the same. It's actually not it's traveling at a different at the same speed C And so of course when at the speed C either and you can see that's think this was just an honest mistake. After I realised that these videos don't work, they seemed to point to another possibility. Maybe light doesn't slow down at all. The Feynman lectures on this topic start off that seems to suggest light doesn't really It says, It is approximately true that light of the field are travelling at the ultimate So in other words, the at the speed c, and so are all the other pieces of light. But maybe when you add them all up, they just I don't know. The statement was a little bit cryptic, so But on the other hand, my other favourite It put it very bluntly. It asks you to imagine this experiment. Your friend aims a laser at your location, You record the time t2 at which you detect Knowing the distance between your locations, In this case, it will still give 3 x 10^8 meters per second, even though there's water in the way. Or to put it another way, if you measure the method, which is to take the distance of this time that it takes for light to get from one of light in water. is actually just equal to C. In other words, This is a very testable prediction and so For this I'm going to use the LiDAR in my And it measures how long it takes for that Alright, so I'm about to dunk my phone in. And right now, before it's in the water, it's side. That's um, way outside of the range I want to clear up one because it's quite confusing. So, the thing that my phone can measure is Specifically, the amount of time that it takes reflected, and come back. But, it tells you that what it's measuring How is that possible? Well, it uses the fact that distance is equal time taken is the thing that it actually measured, speed of light is always c. And since c is a well known constant, it can measured to give you a distance. And that hack should work most of the time, underwater, and the speed of light in water So supposedly, light is supposed to slow down original speed when it's in water, which is up this distance measurement, because this using c as the speed when it should be c times If you know the actual distance here and you says that the new distance is longer, that's the fact that light slows down in water. But if you did this experiment and you found then that means that the time taken hasn't is exactly the same as well. So that means that if the phone measures the water is actually not reduced. It's still equal to C. And that was exactly This reading doesn't even make sense outside This was a recurring theme. The phone readings disagreed with the actual A fatal flaw in my plan? Perhaps, but I pushed on anyway. Okay, whatever. So if I double tap on the screen... accuracy 9%... Oh no, it just actually says it! Okay, this is perfect. Alright. So let's put in... Come on, talk to me. This was also a recurring theme. Every time I tried to put the phone in water, worth detecting. Okay, I'm back. Um... I think this is going to work. Here I've got this container that is nine What I'm going to do is I'm going to sit my to pour some water in and see how the [00:20:00] And, like, if the speed of light is the same distance shouldn't change, because the time to the bottom should be exactly the same. How clever. It says that the height of this is actually Which is a bit different from what I measured, It does matter. No, please work, please work. Why is it suddenly not detecting anything? Yeah, that didn't work and it didn't work Even though I hadn't yet done the experiment, going to be because of this very simple argument. Imagine we have this light coming from this If there was no water in the way, We know c, but even if there is water there, we know [00:21:00] unimpeded, so it's still traveling The only difference is that there's now a Every time this original layer, the electrons in that layer are going to get oscillated by that light. And they are going to produce their own light, it's some complicated thing that comes from in that layer. But it's some sort of light here. Now in terms of timing, there's one very crucial And that is, there's no time lag between the this, these electrons start jiggling and produce And that's because electrons produce their So the moment that this non zero force hits it will produce light. And so there's no time lag at all. That means that whenever this light gets to light from those electrons But remember when light in water What we're interested in is from the electrons But the sum of those two it's going to be some complicated thing The light travel through the water and in particular light going at the speed C, or does it go Here's my argument for why it has to keep Remember, the moment that this light gets some light from the electrons, which will And so the resulting light has also reached These three bits of light have kept in time light must have been traveling at the same So they're both traveling at the speed c. So there you go, light really doesn't slow But then, why do you get the effects as if of light [00:23:00] decreasing, and like the Well, the Feynman lectures explain how you Grant from 3Blue1Brown has made a very beautiful recommend that you watch that. So I'm not going to go over that proof here, of it, and it all comes down to the fact that of light. Imagine our light now goes through a thin We know that what actually happens is that that material at the speed c and doesn't care But, the electrons inside of that material And they start oscillating. There's one important thing that I haven't electrons. So far I've been representing it as if the forward direction. But that's not actually true. Each of these electrons starts to radiate However, it most strongly radiates It does radiate in the other directions as Now, why does this matter? Well, you might have thought that if you had by the original light and light coming from But that's not true. Actually, it does receive some light from The reason why that's so critical is this. The electron that's right in front of it is But this electron, for example, is much further, the speed of light. So, even though all of these are actually going to look like that from the perspective for every message to be delivered, right? And the further away, the longer that that Because messages can only travel at the speed Imagine that these [00:25:00] two are bouncing this first little peak of light. So far, these bits of light are in unison bit that's going to arrive at this electron. Here, I better turn this one. By the time this one has arrived, they're This peak that used to be in time with that and so these two partially cancel each other In fact, if you add up the light from all in the next layer of the water, then what actually quite out of sync with each other. Even though the electrons really were bouncing they're not in unison. When this electron looks at one at what that electron was doing back in time. It's actually the exact same effect that explains in the night sky, you're actually seeing how It's the fact that the electron's light is that overall gives the impression that all I read and reread Feynman's chapter on the the day when it all finally clicked. I was so happy because it felt like I just I remember how happy I was so clearly because Hi. I'm panicking right now. One of my friends suggested that I try out He was saying that, like, you know, it's really factual questions, and so I should give it And I wanted to ask a physics question, in water? It said yes, followed by a bunch of nonsense, Has there been any experiments to prove this? And the answer it gave me has got me really Yes, there have been many experiments that through water. In particular, it mentioned an experiment But that's ridiculous because there's not the moon. I pointed that out and it did concede, but had done this experiment. And it was so confident that I started to I don't know what to believe, I guess. I mean, I did all this Math, and I thought some AI is telling me that, [00:28:00] uh, actually done this experiment that I, uh, from what I expected. You can't make this stuff up. So anyway, um, experiment myself and I wanted to do it in it was the right result. Um, and I wouldn't be second So I decided that I'm going to buy a proper I'm in the car right now because it's pouring So yeah, uh, you want to buy that? And hopefully that will give me the right Let's see, I got the laser meter and now what I'm going to test how far this meter thinks to the bottom. And I'm going to do it once without Okay. If the old distance is like 11cm, something around 14.5 Okay, so if the result is like approximately of light in water is about the same, whereas then, um, it means that So, let's see. Okay, Okay, So I've been thinking about maybe whether does. So it turns out there are two types of LiDAR. Um, there is one that's called phase based it should give you a smaller speed of light know that the phase is delayed. There is a possibility that this is a phase Um, I think that's unlikely but It might be what seems like it should be the wrong result. But there is another type of lighter, and it does exactly what you'd expect. It pulses light very, very quickly, and then back, and it measures the time difference and when it arrives back. So, I want to make sure that what I use is give me the result that... what medium it's in. And I was a bit skeptical about whether the it seems like such an impossible task. You know, you have to be pulsing these lasers And then not only that. when it comes back, you have to be able to and how long it took. And these are very, very short timescales the time that it takes light to go from the almost nothing. Um, but it turns out. The LiDAR in here really is a time of flight Uh, it uses some really cool technology, I it's kind of amazing. Um, it actually has a single photon avalanche of those. So, yeah. [00:32:00] This is the real deal and let's the same result. It turns out that a big part of what I was way too close to the water and at such short distances, so I'd say like it's really bad. But the phone seems quite good once you have So here I've got this saying that this distance But if I instead use this, um, I get a distance So these two ways of measuring the speed of in the way, but let's see what happens when And now it's saying... that this distance [00:33:00] Let's see if this agrees. Whoa, look at this, 33.9 So they agree. So I really am wrong. Okay. In the next video I investigated why light that I'd highly recommend the video on 3Blue1Brown