[Music] Welcome to our Facebook live audience. So today is we are talking about the 10 Power of I'm so glad you joined me today. My name is Lynn Attorney at ELG Estate Planning. So let's go ahead please put your questions in the chat. If that's, Facebook put them in the chat there and Colleen answer all your questions today also stick with send to you a free gift. We'll talk about that before we can talk about the mistakes of a Power understanding of what is a Power of Attorney. usually about a legal document and that is a state has their own Power of Attorney statute. is based upon the uniform Power of Attorney act up at RCW 11.125. I'll get into that a little bit in all the details. So it's a legal document, is it grants authority to somebody else to manage out the document, the Power of Attorney document I authorize them to act on my behalf and typically care matters. Now it can all be in one Power separate ones for finances and for medical, two separate Power of Attorney documents one for have you've probably heard about POA's or Power of actually referring not to the legal document, the to the person that they've appointed under technically that person is your Attorney in Fact under your Power of Attorney to act on your behalf you can't act, some incapacity has occurred so So this is one really important thing that I of Attorney is and before we get started about durable, it must say in that document that it is is that the whole idea with the Power of Attorney, is to make sure that if anything happens to somebody else can. Well if your Power of Attorney of Attorney document is ineffective at the point absolutely need to have that document in place. and mistakes, etcetera, we are talking Critically important just as a by definition One other thing I want to say. We do Estate clients qualify for government benefits, long-term as an Estate Planning Attorney and I've been in of Attorney is the most important legal document protects you while you are alive. All the other the things that will come into effect after your of Attorney is the document that makes sure your So that's why I say it is the most important legal that because everybody knows about a Will, but collateral or you know documents that aren't so let's get started. What are the 10 Number one: failing to have this legal document. not having a Durable Power of Attorney legal Well because they don't realize how important it Will. One of the reasons people might not realize the consequences of not having it. We'll get into well if I don't have a, what will happen to me and to think that they could ever become incapable of a paradox with Estate Planning documents. You do you're protected and then you pray that nothing documents, at least not until you pass away. Planning in general and in particular Power of to lose the ability to manage my own affairs, I'm that's very common. If that's you, know kind of but my job as an Estate Planning Lawyer is to and about the risks that they will encounter fundamental Estate Planning documents. So number of Attorney document. So what are the consequences Well if you're healthy to the end of your life because you know you manage your affairs most people statistically probability wise you even if it's just an acute incident like a heart there's a lot of reasons that you are unable or to handle your financial affairs and if it's a of consequences from that. The hospitals always surgery they'll have you sign something, it won't situation but what if you were to lose the ability for example, a traumatic brain injury or you So if you are incapacitated for a long period of going to take over your business for you. It's it's also called a conservatorship. Let me just that means. It truly means that your business, your health care, all your affairs are taken care to be your voice. Why do they do that? Because somebody has to manage your affairs. You're alive, your affairs. It's going to be the court and the is going to require financial statements filed It's costly, there's going to be somebody you know, it may be a certified professional but it's not the position you want to be in if you getting involved in your personal business? Have it's critical, it's the most important away from today's talk, good. Power, Durable Second biggest mistake with Powers of Remember I just talked about how important the state's involvement so that somebody could not just avoiding the state having you under somebody is to speak for you, you want that to be your thinking, your voice. You need to appoint them with your money, in your life actually you to appoint my eldest child, son or daughter, do. No, think deeper. Who is it that you would can take care of business, can get things done track of any financial matters that they're Who is it that you can rely on to get the Now this is what I'm talking about now is more for that person, that right person, not the wrong is one who doesn't understand what they're doing, the sand, can't get things done, their life is we can think of, they're the wrong person. get done and the whole idea of this is so on and be managed even when you're not capable of as a financial Power of Attorney for your think about what you're doing you know you're you know checkbook is you know, are you paying still a digital record of what you're doing and a job that you're doing for them and hopefully You might be making sure that their taxes are filing them yourself. So the financial Power appointing somebody that can get the job done appointing somebody under a Power of Attorney it comes to finances it's making sure that the your voice being heard is more so when it comes if somebody needs to talk to your doctor about do it because you know you are not capable physician at that time, well who is? You want that who knows what your wishes are, who knows how how much medical treatment do you want. Do no matter what the outcome is or do you say and if I'm not going to get any better You want somebody who is going to be your voice what you want, not what they want. So let's say you had to make a decision about well do you That's a hard decision to make, you might know but it's really hard because you as a child away. It's a hard decision and my point what you appoint to be your Power of Attorney has it in them to say no withdraw this medical but it is the right thing to say so make sure wishy-washy or says I don't know, I don't know this is what mom wants and I am going to be her are thinking about who to appoint as your Power the situations you've been in and that will help for finances and for healthcare and appoint you know people don't have anybody in their could carry out that job, those responsibilities. There are people that are either banks or trusts There are others who serve as health care agents, always options available to you. So if you say I that stop you because as an Estate Planning firm some suggestions about professionals who will Okay Number three: not understanding being your Attorney in Fact, the person you're this kind of ties into what I was just talking about it, but sometimes people say well you know or this or that, this is not an honor, this is served as somebody's Attorney in Fact you know and schedule appointments, attend. If you've had just a oh okay sure I'll do it, no this So as the person who is filling out the Power Estate Planning Lawyer you know you yourself are this, maybe not initially because you know when I for myself I've appointed my husband and then they're not serving right now and doing and that's usually what it looks like. Nobody but you have to acknowledge that if they ever do goes with that and that is something that I think that this really is a job that people need to under your Power of Attorney document. Oh and when they actually have legal responsibilities. Under a fiduciary means that they're not, they have to do what you would do, not to do what obligations that come with serving as a should talk with the person to make sure that they might say sure it's okay and then when can't fit in that into my life right now, the person to make sure that they're not only up to taking on the responsibilities of fourth mistake: having two or more people serve clients will say well I can't decide so I want It's like okay, let's talk about that further. Usually we try to counsel our clients not to have The reason for that is sometimes the two people yeah one of the, I mentioned that having a guardianship. Well I've seen a situation where Attorney and that actually led to a guardianship, is that? Well here was the situation. The attorney and in the Power of Attorney the husband said and I also want my son from my prior marriage serve jointly. If they serve jointly, when people agree on everything, everything that's done. All where the care facility will be, what kind just imagine the scenario. Well no surprise, as a result there was a court-ordered guardianship not agree, nothing you could do could get them Attorney is so you don't get into a guardianship. have to agree on everything that's kind of a and there was a court ordered guardianship. That's and say that they have to serve jointly, From time to time we do say okay, you want jointly and there's some good reasons for serve but their decisions can be independent they get along fine, there's no weird dynamics, checks and somebody is better about doing this and appoint people to be joint but independent meaning an exception to the rule. It's pretty unusual, unique situation where it will work. That's what will this cause more problems? So I'm not going as long as you say that they're independent ironically means but they're going to talk So that can be done, usually though it's not done Attorney in Fact as your agent under your Power failing to name a back-up agent, a back-up So oftentimes we see people just go okay well under my Power of Attorney, I'm done. No, you're this line of thinking and Estate Planning we another Estate Planning Attorney you know we're well what if that happens? Usually people go huh, not your job to think about all these things that an Estate Planning Lawyer does is we ask what if you're just appointing one person first in line to what happens if that one person you've named Durable Power of Attorney then you have nothing in you're under a court-ordered guardianship. the first person, name a second person and then So why do you do that? If the first person if the second can't, then the third person, you but you always can. The likelihood is though you are never going to have a problem with who your Power of Attorney document as your agent. one, two, three as your Attorney in Fact. name two people, my daughter and her husband, we I usually say do your daughter and her do things together? Well of course they do well happen to both of them at the same time so let's a married couple even if it's in a successive in that list of people who might serve for you as your Durable Power of Attorney document effective filling out a Durable Power of Attorney right now right when you sign it even though you for a long time or to say no my Durable Power upon my incapacity, it will spring into effect Sometimes people who are less comfortable with their financial or health care affairs says I mean I only want this person to step in if they in the future when my doctor certifies that I Seems logical, doesn't it? At ELG Estate Planning lot of work with seniors whose cognitive work where people have Alzheimer's if have a family member or just have any familiarity good days and bad days. On their good days you issues at all, on their bad days you know dementia process gets worse and worse and worse, but there when it might not be so evident to a doctor. and you know your mom, you know that she's losing you go with her to the doctor she is sharp as can to sign that incapacity statement and you're going yesterday and I'm fearful this is what she's going you know other healthcare professionals or others say the same thing I believe is that the springing is problematic. I don't recommend it, period. you say well Lynn I don't want the immediately on my behalf. I'm perfectly capable right now. Do you trust the person that you've appointed? I've talked with them. Do you know that they'll I'm appointing them. So what's the problem with to take your Power of Attorney document, you're here I want you to know that you have this in case at the hospital, you have a copy of my document my fears. Of course you are not going to step that's why I recommend the immediately to give more information to make sure that you've to step in right now and try to take over your immediately effective. Seventh biggest in that document specific authorities. This really the medical one is pretty simple, it's usually in like one paragraph. You can make decisions and withdraw treatment, etcetera. When we're authority needed we're really focusing on Power of Attorney document can grant Really what you can't grant is authority to but Power of Attorney documents, typically will my investments, finally my taxes. Dealing you know, buying and selling a car, handling all the myriad things in your life that have to do of Attorney documents typically as a general grant Where people run into troubles is with not the Uniform Durable Power of Attorney Act that says if you want your agent to do certain and if you don't do that they will not have to do a Transfer on Death Deed. We often want principal, that's who signed the Power of Attorney lost capacity and they wanted to avoid Probate Estate Plan correctly to do that. Well we could for your agent to have that authority you needed The Washington statute changed on January 1st, you likely need to go have your attorney look look at all your Estate Planning documents. Banks but let me not go with story right now Make sure you include specific authorities. How you can just look at a form document and they What did those boxes mean? What did you do by your attorney explained to you well what does it transfer? Well a a non-testament Probate you want somebody to create or Why might you want somebody to have the not just to the 15,000 exclusion amount but beyond of all of your assets, for example. I mean that We here at ELG Estate Planning do Medicaid asset that part of our strategy so that the person is to gift them all and to gift them all and if a Power of Attorney not just to gift them but also away assets makes a lot of sense. What we do here a risky authority to include beyond the 15,000 doing gifting for Medicaid qualification not just the Attorney in Fact under your Power of this gift is because of this plan and benefits You want an attorney to back up gifting that is done that is a bad idea. so if we're doing any gifting within the five is doing the gifting of your assets knows what they're doing unless they're dealing with an better put in writing what's going on so that authority to change beneficiary designations to oh this is a really important one that we do to and let's say that you're married and but you don't have a Power of Attorney because or you authority. If one spouse is going on Medicaid, healthy spouse, the community spouse. Well how no you know nothing standing in the way of of Attorney that says we can do that. They can do a Separate Property Agreement. If you want your that in your Power of Attorney and the majority by traditional Estate Planning Lawyers that don't they're not thinking about why would you want to I just explained, but many, many Power of Attorney important that you have that. If there is ever there's other specific grants of authority. Those in taking a look at that, Colleen if you do it can do your Google research and you can do all matter how good of a researcher you are unless the consequences of certain specific grants of important aren't going to stand out to you so be you today, probably should have said this up what I'm giving you isn't your specific If you want specific legal advice about your who knows Estate Planning and not just Estate special needs types of benefits. Okay one of everybody can find a form online and fill that get from that is what does it mean and how can you just have a form, you have a form that might but that won't be adequate to give you that road legal and financial situation might be in case that's what an attorney does for you. Number your bank account. There's a lot of reasons for somebody on my bank account I don't even need you might think that. I mean it makes sense if you they own it with you, they have all the rights business, they can withdraw money, they can So it's kind of like in lieu of having a Power person who will transact business for me, my child The reason that's a really, really bad any sum of money beyond just enough it's their money too, you've made them a joint If they have a divorcing spouse, if they enough liability insurance, if something happens they come after them. That bank account now is going to be susceptible to those creditors to say oh no it was my money, I didn't intend to idea with doing good Estate Planning documents is what should be your Durable Power of Attorney says on your bank account, you've thrown confusion into Another reason not to do that is upon your death and the joint owner you said well you I said please divide it with you know your will mom. What happens when you're gone? Well took care of you, who helped you with everything know what my siblings didn't do anything, they and then litigation will result and then really should get that money. So don't under a Power of Attorney a joint owner of your is when you go to the bank they might say oh and there be careful where you get your legal don't get your legal advice from your accountant, to what your Estate Planning document should is willing to give you free legal advice except So be careful where you're getting your think that they don't need the Power of married and that means you actually, your spouse and you don't have a Power of Attorney and so Washington and Idaho they're community properties Well what I like to say to clients is have you spouse's credit card and they say oh I can't talk You need a Power of Attorney even if you're You have joint ownership of your house and need a Power of Attorney, but think about this. your spouse needed to sign just like you did. how are you going to sell your house? How they'll need to be a guardianship. If and you need to transact any type of business just because you're married doesn't mean You can't unless, they're unless, you're a does not work for real estate. Number nine: not and providing to them your Durable Power of especially if I had an attorney do it for you So people are often surprised when later their the agent is told well I can't, you can't transact Banks, financial institutions all have their with state law. In fact they frequently to say well we won't accept that document, take this document you just signed, take it to to have my Power of Attorney document on file, it on record and sometimes what they'll do is hey let's have you sign our own because we like push the conversation forward so that you know in either because they signed the bank's own form thinks it is or the bank didn't require their own on file. Your agent's not going to have trouble. You are right, it is wrong, the bank should accept there is actually a statute that allows me as court and force the bank to accept the Power of Great, that's a solution but it's not the solution is to try to get things set up so everything is of Attorney mistakes is kind of the practical how easier for your agent. Whenever they have to assuming your Power of attorney it does not. When you die, so does the Attorney. Very frustrating perhaps not for you but I'm the POA, I should be able to do whatever I she said I should do and carry out her wishes A Power of Attorney as I mentioned is a lifetime The authority under a Power of Attorney ends when What that means is well what's the next step? What is the next step? It depends on how the If the Estate Plan wasn't set up because it was going to be a Probate and then the person try to do it on their own or they're going to if the Power of Attorney was set up through an you'll that person who is your agent will know a Probate. We did a Transfer on Death Deed, we did because we knew that Probate avoidance was the we need to protect assets for somebody. So we to defeat creditors claims, for all sorts of step would be to see the attorney and yes there's So what's important for you to document authority ends when the person dies. One exception and it's pretty important exception the health care agent does have continued the remains to decide that there's going to be a so that's kind of out of necessity that our then you are the person authorized to say you I have to add an 11th mistake. Sorry if I'm important. It's fraud. How do you avoid Attorney and granting authority because they everything we've talked about right now up talking about responsibilities, etc. etc. Having a any kind of risk of fraud. Where do you see fraud in Powers of Attorney is online documents. the son prints something off online or has lost, or passed, and he says it's notarized, it's valid. Where there's two that well it looks to be valid whether or not where you see fraud, where you see problems, where not is when there is a family member who just parent, here's a document please sign it, it'll help you out with everything, that's where you see all sorts of reasons and I can tell you that when for a client, we in our experience have not ever never happened, but I am completely unaware of any involved kind of keeps people away from committing of Attorney if there's a lawyer involved. So for those of you who stuck with me I said if you're joining us Zoom we are going to send I hope that today I've raised a lot of questions please take advantage of our complimentary we'll send you the certification, if you will send you qualify you'll get an opportunity to speak please send an email to webinar@elg.com that same certificate. Let me see what type wrap it up today. First question is so if joint I've been told that banks and title companies your understanding? Absolutely, I think I try to of reasons. One of the reasons I didn't mess it financial institutions and banks they won't to joint, either have to make decisions or join independent. They'll require they simply So for a lot of reasons banks and their policies they won't allow you to have a joint signatures for those who had to leave early, this is we'll send you a link so that you can should I provide my financial advisor 401k with and especially when you're talking about 401k form and so it's better to get it dealt with while you're thinking about I'm setting up my Estate Talk to your 401k advisor, say where do I send my just send it here. Great, or they might say oh we bank it's fine for you to complete their form, there's no confusion and so where do we send webinar@elgwa.com and we'll put that in the how many original Powers of Attorney do you need? of Attorney for finances and one for health. give those copies to the banks and to your oftentimes though they'll say well let me see the and bring the copy or just bring your original We at ELG Estate Planning have a practice original General Durable Powers of Attorney. Those for that is it's not that unusual for people to and if we have to record anything with the deed or a property agreement and it's through want to record the original document if we at ELG Estate Planning actually have our client and we keep one that is not necessarily every found that our clients benefit from. So that's yes you'll get a certificate but one of the Estate Planning with us is just contact us and you reviews. It's a part of our client care program if it's just reviewing your Estate Planning Usually with our current clients if they say a question about Probate you know since we've we typically will simply meet with and then give them guidance, but we'll send you Alright, it is just about one o'clock, the end here. Any questions, reach out to us We're in Spokane, we're in Tri-Cities, we're any questions that you have and again thank you so