Lonely waypoints for boats traveling along the cities of the 'Lost Coast'. Once thriving Northern Canada they're nearly all but vanished.. on BC's Inside passage route... it's been left to Ruins of a civilization being reclaimed by the of this remote ghost town is an interesting no roads will lead you here.. to get here we mountains sailing through adverse conditions... definitely got a touch of seasickness there which &quot;Getting a lot of wind off this black cloud ahead this fast landscape. &quot;Oh my God, we just spotted the rocks, they are so cute!&quot; We're currently passage route timing the tides through a series the plan for today is we're going to get out back out into Finlayson Channel we're going to of Princess Royal Channel hopefully around slack to a flood so the current should help us along up there and we're hoping that with a little bit hopefully that'll be funneling into the channel good time and get further up north to Butedale Bay Hot Springs so that we can get out of the rain going to be absolutely superb after freezing our the plan we got to haul the hook get out of here any special treats for lunch and yeah hopefully warm while we're under way today. First pot of that happens...&quot; No luck on dinner this time sadly to make it the 30 nautical miles to Butedale were really hoping that we could sail today when so we put the head sail out to try to maximize a little bit but then the wind's just completely weather out here like very wet it's just constant up Finlayson Channel. We're just a little bit should be arriving up into Princess Royal at the up Princess Royal for the rest of the afternoon be any wind in there I guess that is why they call is protected and you don't have to deal with Despite how miserable the conditions might seem beautiful you can see the all the clouds forming are after all traveling through the heart of the teeming with wildlife, the largest remaining With an average of 7,000 mm of rain barreling over some of the heaviest rainfall in North America [Music] Well that was pretty majestic! Two beautiful that granite cliff it's pretty spectacular. seems to be on this plateau here and I guess it's really wet and rainy is you get to see a lot actually of being in the Fiordland in New Zealand &quot;We're just arriving here in Butedale... but we've been making great progress up your entrance into the channel with the start the way up. We've been averaging 6 and 1/2, 7 absolutely incredible for us flying along here at Butedale.. we're just going to put the night we're not going to go much further... once thriving metropolis, is now sliding into the the rich abundance of fish and the hydroelectrical known as a ghost town... &quot;Butedale is an old up and down the coast it's now obviously closed caretaker and there is a plan to make it into some they're still looking for a buyer.. Like most of unique history and it's a pretty cool place to [Music] [Music] At the turn of the 20th century the coastline canneries like this one all in the business of province's abundance of salmon seemed infinite large large canning [Music] facilities fed by filled to the brim with silvery fish thousands Canadian Refrigeration Co. it's probably which would have been an essential that Butedale did have an ice making machine, that salmon boats and fishing boats could in the holds which is pretty cool! No my body probably seized. It's funny to me that they have it on our floating home... get with It's so neat that like 100 years later They really don't make things like oh that one seized that one seized [Music] [Music] &quot;So that must be the hydroelectric building where nearby lake! It's pretty cool that they're similar to Ocean Falls, and I believe there dam here so the current owners uh The energy produced from water flooding down for the town powering the processing and Ice stop shop for fishing vessels. In its isolated in this remote corner of and landscaped proved challenging and by [Music] It's actually kind of cozy there was a caretaker who lived here up times.. this is probably the building that looks like the only building that has a and it's kind of homey looks like it's been it's got a glorious view out the inlet! Pretty Oh God, no that is terrifying! You always there's like creepy dolls on unmade beds that always is but every single time we've towns there's always a freaking creepy I'm so creeped out bad juju! I know somebody's [Music] Many communities on the coast have long been of nature. By the mid 1900s canaries were modern technology and the steady decline the roof of the cannery here spelling the It's crazy how much rubbish there is! This a big pile of crap. Metal and stuff, do it! Do you think they've got plans When the cannery closed there was little left and buildings were simply left as they remained on for years eerily illuminated [Music] [Music] [Music] Beautiful! We've just left Butedale, it's a round slack a flood so we can continue going north up the up but I think there is one in mind that Bishop Bay Hot Springs! Because it has the warm bathtub going to get rejuvenated going to get yourself after spending so much time motoring We're feeling pretty hungry so I'm just heating sort of like an Italian soup with some white herbs I'm going to have that with some very Yeum, that looks great! So warm cheesy [Music] [Music] We've been passing some beautiful just to sit back on the boat and it's like as you like going by! Well it's been a pretty Bishop Bay Hot Springs. No wind today, but dry. Just been motoring got the autopilot on to because previously we've been helming these back relax I'm just making a cover for the saying that these things work great unless they inside them and corrodes some of the parts. I'm that's meant to be out in the elements that's not of Sunbrella on board and I have this little so thank you Krzysztof for giving this to for me to actually make something out of it but little autopilot cover while we're under way um thank you and I really hope you didn't [Music] &quot;I'm just blown away by how far we've actually of Princess Royale Channel arriving at Bishop Bay that we'd get up here that quickly!&quot; We've covered leaving Northern Vancouver Island and sailing of the Inside passage heading north, the first Alaska.&quot; We're back in the groove of being on the out here and just back in the swing of things!&quot; spent countless hours working and refitting the grind getting the boat ready getting work finished all those boat units and all of that is just it means we get to really maximize our time it's great for filming it's great for exploring guys who get to see all new videos coming to you favor hit that subscribe button come along on the tell us how you're going what you think of things [Music] It is absolutely gorgeous here, Wow! pristine! The sea is so glassy calm, more snowcapped mountains and because there's see the tips of the mountains and the [Applause] We're just coming into Bishop Bay here.. maintained by the locals which you can tie mooring boys in there as well that you can the holding allegedly is not very good it is in like 400 meters of water and it pretty and then comes straight up in a sheer cliff I would say up here which is probably why This is it! Bishop Bay hot springs! Third The facility here is managed by BC Parks, there buoy and they do recommend that you keep in the and that you cannot drink the hot water it is that's all I'm going to tell you about it. there's tons of bits of memorabilia from the that's really neat to like look through and see that other people have been here. The temperature for like just relaxing... you just we've been in here for like 2 hours So cool in here! Awh, Life is Like Sailing! [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] People always ask us how we shower, of hot water hang it up gravity [Music] Well we've been hanging out here for a back from a soak and tonight we are having pizza we actually have enough time today! We've just enjoying this place it's such a beautiful and so we're just making some dough caramelizing fresh sauce, that's the way to go. I think trio maybe some onions mushrooms you know all hard on the stove to give it a nice little crust oven melt the cheese get the toppings right and oven but that's okay because now we have diesel while our laundry also dries because we just came [Music] Its hot a very hot it's very good excellent [Music] [Applause] [Applause] We just put in our little cruising um token leave a 'little something' with their that! We've engraved a little bookend that Steve! I'm leaving a little bit of you Where are your pants? Oh yeah pants on just makes you feel more manly... supporting the continued production of