Ever feel like you spend more time managing things done? In this video, we're going app that does the work for you. No more just answers, and best of all, it's free to use. You can click on the link in the top right-hand description. On this website, click on Sign In or it's completely free to sign up and to start here in the main Bricks interface, and we're here Over on the left-hand side, we'll see that there's refers to as a spreadsheet or a workbook. Let's spreadsheet or a grid of a whole bunch of this appears to be just your standard spreadsheet, a spreadsheet app to do, like say Microsoft numbers. Let's type in a whole bunch of numbers, and here I could sum up all the numbers above. would expect it to. But we came here to see the going to paste in some data to help us with our included a link to a CSV file in the description into cell A1, and then here I'll paste it. This be able to see all of these columns better, let's width of the columns. That looks a lot better. converted all of this data into a table. Making interpret, and to generate insights. Before we table a new name. This is not required, but it'll Right up above, we see the current name, Table_01, on that, and here I could type in Sales Data, and for the table. If you've ever had to analyze data consumers is just cleaning the data and getting here we have a column with the date, and overall, it looks like there's the product these two different items into one column. the best and brightest people, and if we look over to clean this data first before I can analyze it, the location into two new columns. In the past, do this, but let's instead see if we can use AI. field, and it has some text that says, &quot;Ask the it says anything, so let's try something. add a new column with the product. I want to pull that through. Up above, we now have a new column the location. I'll type in another prompt, add that. Right up above, we now have a new column extracted all the information from this column. click on this column, right-click, and then let's Now that we have columns with the I need to add another column with the state likes having that when they review the data, and data never includes it. It always ends up on me. let's see if maybe it could help me add a add a column with the state that the city is in, column with the state for all of these different tell management how easy this is, or should I the comments. To help me with my analysis, I need products. Now, I don't have any type of cost over me paste in a table. I have all the different products. Now, I want to pull in the unit cost and I want to attach it to all the different need to use something like VLOOKUP or XLOOKUP to let's see if maybe AI can help. Down below, this out together. Let's say add a new column, table. So over here, I'll type in sales data, and select that, and it highlights that table name. let's say the unit cost. Over here, when I start cost in table one. So, let's select that. So, cost from table one. I think that's good enough. make that connection between the two tables. we now have the unit cost. Here we have I go over to my original table, here we have Down below, we can also see how it I will add a new column named unit cost to the matching the product column in the sales data with a little bit of background on how it went about so over here, I'll click on close. I'm feeling let's see if you can add a new column showing me total revenue, the unit sold multiplied by let's see if you can make a table showing me wants to know what sells the best. It's now products. It looks like chocolate chip is still Let's keep going. Down below, let's type in This one's getting a little bit more complex. it inserted a pivot table with all the different the revenue for those different combinations. stands out to me. Let's try another one. see if it could forecast what next month will it's inserted a new table where it forecasts And here it says that it applied a simple be able to do that on my own, but here Now that I've done all of this analysis and I've me to pull together some type of dashboard that of today. Down below, I'll type in can you make a tables and charts? Let's send that. This drops me side, we can see that I'm now in a dashboard. The back to it and here I can see all of my data. and gives me insights into all of my data. Let's best-selling products by units sold. Here I have a product. Here it has total revenue by product. I here I have different tables that I generated on insights into my data. Of course, if I would like AI to add more. One thing that's really neat is can be edited. Here, for example, I have the I could go back and I could edit the original me back to this table on the original grid that once I make edits here, it'll automatically update and we can edit the visual. Right up on top, I'll can adjust all the different pieces and components Although AI pulled together this dashboard for me, this view. Let's continue using AI to tweak this this dashboard provides. I'll click on this. And AI, and I can use it to improve the writing, fix else. Let's say, can you turn this into paragraph we now have it in paragraph form. I think this and I have a few different ways that I can do And this launches presentation mode where we different insights and all of the data. I'll press it out with the broader team. I'll click on share. I can copy a link, and I could even publish it so exciting. I didn't have to enter in a single language prompts, I got a beautiful dashboard this is a game changer for anyone who works down in the comments below. Do you think watch more videos like this one, please consider