Do you know the many surprising connections and the deepest recesses of our ocean? Both are and where the pressure alone is enough to kill providing explorers with a strange could somehow survive being there in the captivating mysteries. Our oceans are filled say what lurks in the unexplored corners of space? NASA had turned its attention towards exploring NASA is normally all about space. What are I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. of undersea facilities, uncanny life, and an Mars than of this terrain on our own planet. a paper published in the Journal of the Royal over two-thirds of the surface of the world, and of the moon than is known about that of the bottom that in the world before echo-sounding technology know much about the topography of what was down while we have mapped the Moon thanks to satellites of the ocean floor in high resolution. area of 120 million square kilometres, about 3 no longer holds entirely true. Hence why we can of 145 million square kilometres. But still, it's NASA was founded in 1958 with the purpose in the atmosphere and in outer space, and would help them to do so. Exploring the ocean was in 1978 NASA began monitoring the ocean with SEASAT, which was capable of collecting data wave heights, and other features. This helped their impact on the global climate. Still, ocean only began at the turn of the Millenium. for space is through simulated space in Florida is the world's only undersea research it is a small, 3-roomed habitat large enough to combines sleeping and living quarters, an entry it. It was originally designed to help "aquanauts" time through a technique known as saturation human body becomes saturated with gas dissolved in stay at depth without ill effects for much longer 1 or 2 hours. This made it ideal for biologists In 2001, however, NASA, along with realised that it made for a great space training those found on the international space station, Base would get a vital taster of what life would performing experiments, and generally get used in a hostile environment. NASA began the NEEMO Operations, and that same year began sending their NEEMO missions since then, merging astronaut crews lasted up to 3 weeks. Astronauts there became suits, getting a taste for what "spacewalks" might the day humans return to the Moon, or go to Mars. however. Perhaps the most significant but rather for the machines that would of planet Earth. Let's now go deeper, and Our solar system is home to many large oceans Saturn's moon Enceladus - to name just two their kilometre-thick icy surfaces. In spite of scientists believe that Europa holds twice This is an intriguing concept, as even though the mixture of liquid water bordering of these locations ideal candidates for life. see if life really has arisen in the oceans of Clipper, with the mission to fly by the moon depth of its icy shell, to try to determine the better picture of the moon as a whole. However, for future missions, which one day might see shell of Europa using nuclear-powered radiators, lies below. Once down there, no radio signal will be relayed via a vast cable brought This means that such cryobots will need to be km, to explore the dark, chilling, and highly to see what alien life might swim in those waters. to explore deep dark waters in what better place to start than the The deepest parts of the oceans on Earth are differences between Europa and Earth, the are much more comparable than you might thought to have a hydrostatic pressure between on Earth would equate to a depth of around had to go 100's of km down on Earth, but it's Mariana Trench - the deepest place in our ocean which is enough to crush the individual cells in And yet, life survives here. And it doesn't just the Galapagos Hydrothermal Expedition in 1977, vehicle that could survive those pressures, were thriving ecosystems gathered around hydrothermal crabs, and fish were found in rich abundance. all manner of strange lifeforms down there - Giant, ethereal "bigfin squid" squid that were the depths between 6000 and 11,000km, in an area the underworld, Hades), life had learned to adapt possible. And this incredible adaptability what might be possible on other worlds. found near the fault lines of continental plates, trenches create a unique v-shaped environment that sludgy pool. Whenever a carcass falls down here, to quickly detect it and arrive within minutes. pumped out of thermal vents. If you added you would end up with an area the size of NASA wants to explore these regions using them - that would be able to detect locations of to map out the terrain using cameras and onboard on Mars. It's a challenging task. Not only would excessive pressure, but the temperature around degrees. Drones would need to be able to survive In 2014, one such deep sea drone known as off the coast of New Zealand. This is the its new equipment. However, sadly Nereus was in spite of having succeeded on hadal dives were later found floating to the surface. NASA's lighter autonomous submarine known as Orpheus. zone. Instead, it is being put through its its lighter design would make it easier of Europa at some point in the distant future. after all. In 2023, NASA's Planetary Exploration of 40 top-researchers from multiple fields in how close we might be to making this trip. A already there. Their conclusion was that the and the most plausible near-term way to ocean world." With the combined information technical experimentation being done with Orpheus it is something we will see within our lifetimes When it finally does happen, though, and dark seas across the gulf of space, what will it We are water-based lifeforms, here on Earth. oceans. All life is dependent on water to live. there will be something strangely soothing like entering a place we already know, Does something lurk in those alien seas? Although might be true is enough. To discover that life solar system would have massive implications on would mean life is likely abundant, and we ought proving it is the challenge. Only by perfecting crack open those frozen shells, enter those inky For NASA, their mission to find life in Update on the Patreon: We are now 84% of on Patreon and I cannot thank you enough we get the more it's looking like I'll be back Astrum answers so submit your video and if you'd like to become an Astrumnaut you once again a huge thank you from myself and Meanwhile click the link to this