And it was a Sunday morning I was in bed still asleep, it was maybe like 9 or 10 o'clock. and the phone rings and it's my baby brother his name is Isaac, he's 9 years old so I answer the phone like, hello? &quot;Hello, Trevor?&quot; I said, hey Isaac what do you want? &quot;How are you?&quot; I am fine thanks. &quot;I am also fine, thank you.&quot; I am fine thanks and how are you Isaac? &quot;I am fine thanks and how are you? I am fine thank you. &quot;It's a pleasure.&quot; &quot;Oh, and Trevor are you busy?&quot; yes sort of, why? &quot;No, because mom's been shot.&quot; I am sorry, what? &quot;Yeah, mom has been shot and we are Mom's been shot, okay, Okay of course I can and he tells me the hospital. can you come? Like he is to polite for his own good can you come? Like I am going to have to &quot;Oh, coffee at two and then, eish! PlayStation at one, Come on, can I come? of course I can come, I am panicking. I jump out of bed, I am running around I am trying to put my clothes on, some things are backwards I don't even notice, I don't even care I grab the car keys but I I am busy running around I jump into the car, into the streets as soon as I am out the gate, You cant even control it, you are (Crying) I am driving, I am trying to hold it back but then I get to the and I let it out, it just comes out (crying) NO don't wash my window! No, no, don't, don't! Hey, no, no, hey, no, no! Hey, no. (crying) there I am, driving to the I get there, jump out the car my brother is standing there I see him outside, he is just standing I am like, Isaac what happened? He's like, &quot;Mom got shot, she's inside&quot; I am like, are you okay? He's like, &quot;mom was shot, not me.&quot; No, that's not what I am saying you idiot whatever, I am coming back So I run inside My mom is in the prep area, all the there is blood everywhere, and just by the way doctors are not as good looking No, like they set the bar really high I was shocked because (Confused) Sorry, that was inappropriate, &quot;Sir, you need to leave&quot; I said I was sorry, what's happening? No sir, you cant be I am like whatever, okay. So I go outside, the nurse &quot;Mr. Noah?&quot; &quot;Okay Mr. Noah, we have your I said, my wife? She said yes, that's Mrs. Noah right? Yes, that's my mom. Oh, I am sorry thought she was Come on, why would you think she is my wife? You think I would, she like have you seen the girls oh, I will show you the pictures She's like, &quot;Okay Mr. Noah your mom has just been stabilized and we are She has been shot in the head and she so this is a very serious thing. I am like, yes it is &quot;Well, we just found out that I said, what? She goes, yeah she Now my mom always had but now it turns out she canceled it a few years ago I didn't know this, she canceled it because she never gets sick. you know those people? I never get sick, I I never get sick, I don't know why Yes, but you didn't think of bullets. Now she is in the hospital, no medical aid So I said to the nurse, what does this mean? She says well it means we are going to and send her to a public hospital. I said, but she is bleeding She said, &quot; I am sorry sir but that is all Now I am panicking, a public hospital? Normally a good place to go, normally but now what's happening is money is going missing, you they don't have the right equipment now I am picturing guys There's the doctor, &quot;give me a scalpel&quot; &quot;We got a spanner&quot; &quot;Yeah, bring it. At least it's a shifting okay, lets try something.&quot; I am stressed. so I said, well what do we She says, &quot;well, nothing sir.&quot; I said well what if I She says, &quot;well, you don't know you cant unless you give us your card I said well take my card, She goes, &quot;Sir, it can I said, this is my mom this is my mom, you use the money. She goes, don't tell me it's expensive this is my mother we are I realized through this I he's been standing there the So I am like hey Isaac, what's on your mind man you okay big boy? His like, &quot;Trevor?&quot; Yes? &quot;can I come to your house and How can you ask me about PlayStation, you cant be asking me about that, whats You know what, you are never going no PlayStation for you ever in your life, ever Go away, go sit down and think about what you just said! PlayStation, how the hell is he the nurse comes back and we just used R900 for some blood tests.&quot; I am like okay, why are It's R900, this is my mom. She goes away. R900, how She comes back and says, &quot; Mr. Noah This is my mom, not a pair of jeans use the money, go! She goes away, I am like busy asking me questions over here My mom is gonna die, that's all I am saying, and I He starts crying. (crying) I am like, Isaac I am sorry. I am sorry, are you okay? He says, &quot;I am not okay&quot; &quot;you said I am never going to play now I cant play Need for Speed I am like, you still crying about PlayStation? you have no right to cry, you hear me! Shut up, stop crying! You cant cry about this, Now a woman comes out, she now she thinks I am telling my She just gets involved, she is like &quot;Hey, you let him cry okay! you let him cry, some people you let him cry!&quot; I am like I will not let him cry many kids grow up without one, okay this is not, it's fine like, he should go play it's not the time to cry you spoil your kids, you take it away from them so You and you, you both shut up! I am telling them this, She goes, &quot;Mr Noah, we I am like, so do the surgery. She says, &quot;yes but sir, ICU and surgery is very expensive&quot; I am like, Lady what is expensive? She says, &quot;anywhere from like R20 000&quot; I am like, R20 000? &quot;all the way to like R500 000.&quot; Yo, but she has lived hey? I mean I mean she is like what 57, 57? it's almost finished, you know? even she says she is old, I mean. You said the bullet is in the head, yo, because with that money we we need to buy scones for everybody this guy needs a so I don't know if she says, &quot;Sir we need the go ahead I said okay, well use the card. we will handle the debt She goes away, I am stressed because I have seen this happen to people go into hospital, don't use your credit card and the next and the person could die the person dies and when they die the doctor doesn't give No, no he doesn't because he tried and you will get there and be He would be like and your money is gone that is all I was stressed about but the most amazing thing happened turns out my mother was not that badly hurt. it was a miracle really the ass bullets didn't do much damage because my family is gifted. the head bullet didn't hit anything vital other than the head, obviously but it missed her spinal cord missed the nerves, went right through, missed the eye hit the eye socket and deflected and all it did was cut a just one side and the bullet went out clean. which meant she didn't have to and her recovery was only a week. Yeah, a week. because that means the bill was only R24 000. and she is alive, yes was only R24 000 this was great, really great because R25 000 was my cut-off So You laugh but that is how much I for all the Ultramel custard everything else, none of my business food, clothes, schooling, all I hate it when the parents &quot;You know how hard I have to work &quot;No, no, no! I didn't ask to be born, Please, you handle that I asked for the Ultramel, don't involve me in your things.&quot; and that is what I calculated, R25 000. I would have been there, R24 750 I would have been Hey Doc, it's fine my man. no, you tried you tried, it's cool no you tried, just switch How much, 250 left? we will pop a draw, just you tried. it was fantastic I told my mom about she didn't know I was serious. and to show you what a my mom is in the recovery ward she has got these tubes and an I.V and my brother is in the and my grandmother is in the and I am holding my mom's still crying, this is a week later. (crying) I have been crying the whole week but I have also been using this time No, because as a man you you loop it all together and you like we cry in bulk, You don't just cry, one, one, one, no cry in bulk. so I am crying for everything (crying) and my mom looks at me and she goes &quot;Shh Trevor, don't I said no mom I got to cry, She says no, look on the bright side I said, what bright side? She said, at least now you are officially the best I was like, by default.