Around the year 1200 AD, the medieval Al-Baghdadi departed from his hometown exploration. law, medicine, and philosophy, and was philosophers; in particular, century, Al-Baghdadi embarked on a series of the great cities in the region. He and Aleppo, and eventually, around the the Sinai Desert to the banks of the book that was part travel account and Edification and Admonition. In it, he Egypt made on him. Egypt is a land of wondrous monuments valley enclosed by two ranges of hills; Nile runs between them until it reaches branches, all of which flow out into the We know of no other river in the distance. As Al-Baghdadi traveled around Egypt, he ancient remains he saw; great temples of beside the waters of the Nile. But none all Egypt's monuments, which rose over Memphis, at a place called Giza. The ancient monuments in Egypt are of in other lands. First among them are are situated on the Giza side of the Memphis, spread out along a distance of small; some are of clay and mud brick, but most of them taper smoothly. Of all these pyramids, three immensity. Turning to the pyramids that characterizes in terms of their sheer straight line at Giza. Two of them are these two that the poets have been inspiring that your sight will falter as Al-Baghdadi wrote accounts of the remains. He describes some who climbed to who quarried them for their fine-cut exploring the hidden tunnels and pyramids. In one of the great pyramids, to gain entry. It leads them into narrow shafts, pitfalls, and other such features, as venture inside and explore the innermost pyramid and filled with fanciful ideas depths, but they always end up at some spoke of how the pyramid was full of of stones, written in the ancient characters land of Egypt, I have never found a have heard of anyone who knew how to He even seems to have visited the to its neck in the sands. Also, by the three pyramids, at a bow-shot, the likeness of a most enormous The people call it old father dread , and ground. The face is handsomely, indeed elegance and beauty about the features, them. Above all, Al-Baghdadi was impressed have required to build such for such a stretch of time. The construction of the pyramids methodology remarkable in respect both execution. This is what has enabled the or rather, it is meant that time itself pyramids. Noble intellects gave the their every effort for their sake; loftiest capabilities on their design, to of the possible. Because of this, they all telling us what sort of folk they were, relating the stories of their lives and times. When Al-Baghdadi visited Giza was the tallest man-made structure in 3,700 years. the greatness of a civilization that a civilization that had passed through decay, and then finally disappeared desert. My name's Paul Cooper, and you're Podcast. Each episode, I look at a glory and then collapsed into the ashes have in common? What led to their fall, alive at the time who witnessed the end tell the story of one of the most iconic civilizations of Egypt's Nile Valley. I societies grew up in the floodplains of most enduring and recognizable the story of how they rose, how they history altogether. The story of Egypt is one of history. Many empires would consider reigns of thirty-one kings, but Ancient Egypt kings, lasting for more than three thousand long struggled with this panoply of wrestle the history of Egypt into neat history into three sets of Kingdom, the Middle Kingdom, and the New intermediate periods when the central divided. Throughout this history, Egypt's great river that gave it life. That river entire Afro-Eurasian landmass, The Nile finds its source in Lake Africa. It's a body of water about the Ireland. The gigantic Lake Victoria Nile, which is joined by the so-called capital of 2,000 km across the Nubian and Egyptian into a wide delta and empties into the Next to the Amazon River, the Nile is river on or around a sixth of the way around the tenth of the entire landmass of arid climate, and its inland territories rainfall. If geography had been only a not begun to drain westwards, we can only have gone. For at least the last every tree in the Nile Valley, every every priest and every king, owes their river. Human presence in Egypt is among in the region of East Africa, modern corridor, and from there spread to the The Nile is, in a sense, the highway passed. As one of our first stops along remains of astonishing humans have been discovered in Nile years ago, and modern Homo sapiens so. These migrations likely happened periods that have occurred over the last These are times when shifts in the the Sahara Desert. into a verdant grassland, home to animals grasses would die, the animals would return. It's thought that this cycle has the desert first formed eight million years ago. The earliest peoples in this region behind stone tools and a multitude of From about the year 13,000 BC, history, the Sebilian culture began there developed their own domesticated weave thread from wool, and another humid One enigmatic stone circle at the 7,500 BC, when the Sahara was a range of more. This stone monument may have been different times of the year, so that the harvest and the migration of animals Egypt's Stonehenge, but this doesn't at least five thousand years before the first laid. When the last Ice Age ended and the who had been living and herding in its their ancestral home. They would have until they reached the only stretch of was the banks of the Nile, and here they These peoples would build a reaching up and down the river, but driven to the riverbank to survive, towns, cities, The Ancient Egyptians referred lands , referring to the long Nile Valley out in the north, close to the sea. These Upper and Lower Egypt. who orients their maps facing north, the opposite direction. for east was the same as their word for Egyptian mind, they were always facing to arrive. continue, just remember that southern northern Lower Egypt is the lands along the riverbank would world. The Egyptians referred to the black land , due to the rich, dark soil floods. This land was the realm of the falcon, the god of life, protection, and either direction, you would soon reach land . This was the inhospitable desert largely devoid of water and shade, and These deserts were presided over by violence. The Nile itself they knew since in their world there was no other. The Egyptian world began in Upper a place now known as crosses the landscape and forces the rapids, running over boulders and through cataracts. This word comes from the Greek down . Today, the waters of these cataracts the Aswan Dam, but in ancient times, they when the floodwaters passed through this such a thundering sound that the Earth Ancient Egyptians to believe that the Earth, bursting out of vast, subterranean At Aswan, they built a temple on an waters, and here worshiped that primeval made it a natural barrier to ships, and For this reason, for much of its Egyptian influence ended, the final their empire. lands of Nubia, and for this reason, narrow gateway to the cataracts was known to the Egyptians as it was a hub for the ivory trade with follow this example, and named the place would pass over land south to the Darfur other goods. But north of Aswan, Herodotus records. in its course was Egypt, and all who Elephantine and drank the river's water to them. flows from the south to the north, while direction, meaning that you could use the as Aswan without too much effort. But the allowing the river waters to simply downstream to the north from Aswan would the river bordered by cliffs of hard This is not a land well-suited these valleys were sources of natural Further north, the red cliffs fall away, gets wider. green, and a larger population could be desert city of Thebes would grow up, Waset. This would one day become the most of the desert regions. The living part of an Egyptian workshops, tended to be built on the rises, while the western bank, where the tombs. Sailing further north, you would the floodplain gets wider of wildlife and river, the waters divert and fill a large broad leaf from the stem of the to large populations of Nile crocodile, would be known by the Greeks as City . Here, Egyptians apparently even Herodotus recounts. Now, for some of the Egyptians, the dwelt about Thebes and about the lake each of these two peoples keep one trained to tameness, and they put hanging ears of these, and anklets round the appointed and victim of sacrifices, and In other places, crocodiles were risky methods. A man puts the back of a pig into the middle of the river, while he young live pig, which he beats; and the direction of the sound, and when he is hunter plasters up his eyes with muck; and mastery of him. But if he does not do so, Also living in the river were river horses , or hippopotamus, The river horse is sacred Egyptians it is not sacred, and this is four-footed, cloven-hoofed like an ox, flat- showing teeth like tusks, with a tail and in size as large as the largest ox; and when it has been dried, shafts of The most strategically important the balance of the two split into its delta. and Lower Egypt, this was always the empire was united. the city of Memphis, and in turn, to Egyptians would build their most famous Each year, the monsoon rains Central Africa would swell the river, and This happened with such regularity, Egyptians timed it using the rising of In the fifth century BC, Herodotus wrote When the Nile is in flood, it journey from either bank. The Nile comes the summer solstice, and when this tale of diminishing stream, so that the river is solstice again. three seasons; the flood season of Akhet, harvest season of Shemu. early autumn, the land was refreshed and crops could be grown. In this black mud, lentils throughout the cooler winter grain was ready to be delicate balance. too little or too much, the results could hymn to the Nile makes clear. If he is greedy, the whole land people are changed at his joy, then every belly is glad, every jaw Since their lives depended so developed ingenious systems for they built a series of devices known as towers with deep wells inside that allow inscribed on their walls in Egyptian anxiously check these Nilometers to see how whether it would be a time of famine, a would need to hastily build some flood defenses. During the period known as the were divided, and this division was people of southern Upper Egypt worshiped depicted as a griffon vulture, a powerful bird. These people were likely darker- linguistic connection with the southern their rulers sometimes even southern kingdoms. Meanwhile, the people to the god Wadjet, usually shown as an They had more genetic influence and may have been somewhat lighter- Egypt ruled while wearing a white, north wore a red crown with a spiraling it. The kingdoms that ruled over these geographical distinction between Upper around the year 3000 BC, or more than change. That was because of a king of a Narmer. The figure of Narmer is wreathed in him has been pieced together from fragments artifacts. Narmer was born under the Horus name or king name when he came to perhaps gives us some sense of his something like fighting clearly admired fish, a nocturnal hunter that can grow up dolphin, and uses a form of naturally- a unique organ in its body, it can volts that stuns its prey. In the largest an adult human, and the Egyptians were depicted these shock-and-awe predators experimented with using the weak treatment for King Narmer wanted to emulate some of the but whether it was their patience lying of their surprise attacks, or the shock and we may never know. Virtually the only carving known as the Narmer Palette, which clues. One side of this carved artifact enemy, gripping him by the hair in one It's a clear sign of the white, bulbous crown of his native bludgeoned his rivals there into shows the king leading an army, while him. Below this, an image of a bull is fortress with its horns. On this side of of Lower Egypt. From this, we might assume conquest and successfully brought the animals carved on one side of the Narmer intertwined, perhaps representing the Egypt, their lives and their fates now This was a union that would see the the most influential societies in early At first, Egyptian culture was older civilizations of Mesopotamia, like Egyptian palaces were often Sumerian motifs in their art, too. But by matured its own indigenous artistic writing. The Greeks would later refer to carving , or hieroglyph. The Egyptian hieroglyphs are variety of phonetic symbols, as well as a whole words. For example, an image of a could be used to represent the common represented groups of consonants could common words, names, or after the invention of cuneiform in inspired by this older writing system. In evolution of the cuneiform writing but in Egypt, the earliest discovered springing into existence already fully- that they may have been developed all at perhaps even devised by a single was the shepherd's crook, since the king for his people. Egyptian kings would even gilded, curved crook modeled after those and these kings have come to be known as pharaohs. The word pharaoh derives from house , and it has stuck in the popular Egyptian ruler, partly due to its use in evidence that it was used to refer to years after Narmer s the first eighteen dynasties of Egypt's to as kings or Neswet , and by epithets pharaoh has gained such currency and refer to all the rulers of Egypt across The pharaoh in Ancient Egypt was falcon god Horus and the son of the sun One later hymn praises the figure of Pharaoh is the lord of wisdom whose glory is in the sky; his might is in the who shatters all at will, who lives on Perhaps most famously of all, the religious beliefs to embalm the bodies of preparation for the afterlife. traveled widely in Egypt, wrote about the bodies in this way in exchange for a to them, show to those who brought it reality by painting, and demonstrate on the second which they show is less good the least expensive of all. Having told way they desire the corpse of their With the price negotiated, the the grizzly process of which Herodotus First, with the crooked iron nostrils, extracting it partly thus and this, with a sharp stone of Ethiopia, they the whole contents of the belly, and when cleansed it with palm wine, they cleanse they fill the belly with pure myrrh and together again. Having done so, they keep then they wash the corpse and roll its bands, smearing those beneath with gum, instead of glue. those with wealth could afford it; rich the pharaoh himself. One inscription on the walls of sense of the kinds of prayers and while these rituals took place; this one to the Sun and Thoth, take Unus with you, that may drink of what you drink of, that he that he may sail in what you sail in. reeds; the flood of Unus is in the Marsh the water of Unus is wine, like the sun. the sun; Unus shall course the sky. Upon coming to the throne of the capital, perfectly placed at the balance delta. This city would become known as but today we know it as Memphis. would rule from this new capital, but between palaces, and when they died, their region of Thinis in Upper Egypt to be ancestral burial ground at king named Hotep-sekh-emwy. 2,900 BC, and started what has been he took the decision to start a new Egypt's pharaohs could be buried close For the site of this new burial bank of the river, the side where the sun Saqqara is situated on a raised plateau reach. Visually, it would have been where the green river lands end and the begins. For this reason, it may have been death and life, city of the dead. be remembered, it also had the benefit of capital of Memphis. site would become full of tombs of kings attendants and nobles who followed them At first, these tombs were rectangular constructions built of mud rebirth into the next life. were still relatively would get even more ambitious with their This ambition truly began Netjerikhet Djoser. The reign of Djoser begins the period last for the next five hundred years. Djoser was the reunited Egypt after a period of turmoil, rebellion. With order now restored, Djoser Rather than continuing to travel around done, he moved to a permanent capital at on the restive northern of rule, he set about an ambitious temples, and throwing up fortresses all of his burial that he would truly leave When Djoser began the construction of like the mastaba tombs of the kings that soon began dreaming of a more ambitious and engineer who held numerous official the royal shipyard , royal seal bearer , and His name was Imhotep. Imhotep s name means the one who 27th century BC, but beyond that, much of distorted by myth and legend. He was statesman, a scribe, physician, and magician. He also has the distinction of to be recorded in any detail by architect, Imhotep was put in charge of would not be a regular mud brick mastaba In fact, Imhotep was stone. This stone would need to be cut into blocks. out of the desert, Imhotep seems to have With this stronger building more weight, and so, there was no real Once the first mastaba was another smaller one on top of it, and stepped design like a wedding this construction four tiers high, but daring. By the time it was finished, perhaps the world's first large-scale rising to a height of sixty-two meters, it was likely Finally, the stepped pyramid of he was laid to rest in a granite chamber a maze of tunnels. revolutionary step in Egyptian challenge to all the kings who would find irresistible. The difficulties that these pyramids were enormous, but their when you consider that these monuments Today, Egypt is littered with the pyramids. These were abandoned halfway because the pharaoh who commissioned Once a pharaoh was dead, it seemed build his tomb. After all, there was a new pyramid would have to begin right had to be completed, at the very least, Only the kings with the longest to see the final capstone placed. The next pharaoh after Djoser was been Djoser's brother, and he would join the As soon soon as he came to another stepped pyramid of immense achievement. But only the first layer of just six or seven years into his reign, and Another king, Khaba, also died could be completed. Egyptians would require enormous amounts pyramid, with about 10,000 laboring at misconception that these monuments were historians now believe this not to be society, as it was across the ancient prisoners of war, and also from those who crimes. But slaves were mostly used as unlucky, toiled in extraction industries quarrying. These were considered an trusted with the construction of such buildings. In fact, evidence shows that professional artisans and laboring in exchange for rations. was dictated by the coming and going of few times of year when they could be the rest of the time, they would have construction projects, the digging of and construction of pyramids. While they labored for the king, day, and ate meat and were divided into teams of twenty men. the inward-facing sides of some stone gave themselves playful and boisterous recorded. The Friends of Khufu . Powerful White Crown of Khufu . Those Who Menkaure . It seems their supervisors fostered competition, perhaps giving honors and the most blocks. backbreaking, but over the following take this deal. pride at the great constructions they well, they would live to see sufficiently respected that any who died tombs within the royal complex, their they had given their lives to build, an to a slave. The vast administrative effort of centuries required a fundamental the past, most of the high positions of pharaoh's family, but with such ambitious would be needed. individual functions of government such of Workshops were separated out, and individuals who were promoted on summarizes the transformation in the As Egypt embarked on pyramid- This new caste of civil servants text of the fifth dynasty records the advice son about how to be a successful administrator. puffed up because of your knowledge. Be Take counsel with the ignorant as well hidden than the emerald, but it may be grindstone. that followed Djoser must have left a crumbling, half-finished pyramids stood that could also be fragile and had laid down a provocation that would the reign of a king named Sneferu that Sneferu's full name was Horus, Lord of Ma at, has perfected me . the embodiment of justice and truth, an ostrich feather on her head, who kept regular patterns and maintained was the concept of disorder. This was sometimes depicted as For the most part, Sneferu s name protection of Ma at, he reigned for as and stability. His accession to the Egyptian source, the Prisse Papyrus. Upper and Lower Egypt, Huni, came to the of the king of Upper and Lower Egypt, king in this entire land. throne, Sneferu would secure his place as pyramid-builder. kings to build a stepped pyramid to could build something even better, a geometrical shape. He had a vision of a unlike anything the world had seen this would be at the pyramid of Meidum. There is some debate about whether the predecessor Huni, but we can assume they stands as one of the most impressive The Meidum pyramid was built in First, it was a stepped pyramid of and then this interior structure was limestone, creating a high and narrow beautiful. That is until one day, as the entire weight of the stone facing began We can only imagine the noise this; the workers leaping clear of the an avalanche of painstakingly cut stone moment this happened, Sneferu ordered the the interior chambers simply put down Today, the burial chamber inside the uncarved walls and wooden supports still after construction. devastated, but he wasn't pyramid at the site of necropolis of Saqqara. This pyramid was intended to be than the first. His workmen began to its sides, and this time, Sneferu must have dreamed of. But this would not turn out built on ground that was only soft sand As the pyramid took shape and its they found that the stone was sinking appear in the structure. felt to be the architect who had to of Ra, the living embodiment of the god could, from adding new supporting blocks sections with huge beams of cedar wood, if they continued the pyramid as planned, first one had. listened to reason. He consented to allow pyramid with a reduced angle of only five meters. This means that today, the pyramid has given it the name the bent pyramid . satisfied. He now ordered the to the north, combining everything his This one was now built with a 43-degree distributing the weight on the earth, and desired. This was the first structure Egyptian pyramid, and would be used as a years to come. height of Djoser's pyramid and the and its geometrical perfection When Sneferu died, he was his wishes, and his son took the throne. of all. His name was Khufu. As a boy, Khufu must have seen his construction of his three listening in on his father's tension and anger as the first two triumph of the red pyramid. Perhaps such a monument for himself. We know very little about Khufu clear that he was inspired by one thing; the largest pyramid that would ever mistakes on the bent pyramid and likely elected to build his tomb some fifteen shelf of strong limestone just outside When construction began on the uncertainty about whether it would even estimated 2.3 million large, stone blocks, when its first layer was completed, it pitches. Its builders used predominantly the Giza Plateau to build the pyramid's together with lime mortar packed with Luckily, these organic remains dated, allowing archaeologists to date to this period. for the main body, the king's burial of hard granite brought from Aswan, since of millions of tonnes of stone above it. shell were quarried at a place called stone from these quarries was of color, almost like marble. prized for use on the interiors of pyramid. This limestone was cut out of dragged down to the banks of the Nile, carried downstream. transportation of these stones, the artificial harbors that came right up to was known as She-Khufu, or the pool of oldest ever found, that is the work Merer. In it, he records the process of Day 25: Inspector Merer spends the spends the night at Tura. from Tura loaded with stone; spends the Day 27: Sets sail loaded with stone; Day 28: casts off from the Tura South. Day 29: Inspector Merer spends the day hauling Tura. Day 30: Inspector Merer spends the the night at Tura. Remarkably, the pyramid was one of its faces at each point of the must have used measurements of the method by which they could have achieved With the kingdom's now estimated that it took only about twenty- being placed around 2560 BC. Upon its completion, the Great Pyramid or nearly forty stories. structure in the world, and would remain The building that eventually Cathedral in England, completed in 1311, centuries before it collapsed in a into history with the construction of ambitious pyramid, little else is known ever found is a single statuette carved obsessed with grand scale, this statue is inches, tall. When Khufu died around throne. But his reign was short, and when pharaoh. His name was Khafre. his father's and grandfather's footsteps, would place it right beside his father s, it any higher. tiring of this mania for ever bigger and wouldn't be possible to build any bigger. would have appeared unseemly to one-up Perhaps for this reason, and-a-half meters shorter than his father's, slightly higher shelf of limestone, taller. Coupled with slightly steeper, able to build his pyramid with perhaps his teams of laborers and stonemasons no Today, the pyramid of Khafre any of its original casing stones of cling to the top-third of the structure, more difficult for stone thieves to This allows us to picture how their golden age, the smooth, white sides the desert sun, and at night shone in the These pyramids were also likely pyramidion, usually carved of diorite or hieroglyphs. Some examples of these distinctive grooves that suggest that either copper or shining electrum, an Since the pyramidions for the Giza unknown whether their tops were encased made them an even more impressive sight, heavens. Within only a hundred years or so stepped pyramid, all of Egypt's largest only three generations of the same final capstone was placed on Khafre's pyramids began to wane. The pharaoh Menkaure, the son of Khafre pyramid at Giza around 2510 BC, but his It's not even a tenth the size of the the size of even Djoser's stepped that Menkaure didn't expect to live long construction as his of tradition about the pharaoh Menkaure, that his reign would be short. best of the time he had, and perhaps this The king deemed this unjust, and reproach, blaming the god; why must he die had lived long? He caused many lamps to nightfall and drink and make merry. By roaming to the marsh country and the likeliest places of pleasure. Whether there's any truth to different priorities to Khufu and Khafre, have broken the spell of his family's For the next thousand years, pharaohs but they would be mostly at a much and bigger corners in their limestone structure, these later limestone shell encasing a core of mud reason, little remains of these later alone in the desert. to die out altogether. building pyramids was partly due to burial, but it also seems to have stemmed After all, a pyramid was to the world that the richest man in days, people were drawn to the tombs of their treasures. royal architect named Ineni gives us a He writes that he constructed his king s of power, but in total secrecy. I supervised the excavation of one seeing, no one hearing. Even with these secret tombs, concern. One pharaoh of the later New predecessors tombs, and his inspectors The tomb of the king; it was found by forcing an opening into the main wall of the sanctuary of Nebamen, the king. In the funerary place, the body of of his royal spouse, the royal lady of violent hands on them. treasures inside that were cutting the limestone blocks from the time-consuming parts of construction. pressed for time sometimes despoiled order to speed along their own as the Instruction of Merikare advises Do not despoil the monument of another, Do not build your tomb out of ruins, be made. pyramids at Saqqara or Giza, the later Thebes that the Egyptians called the Millions of Years of the Pharaoh , or is known as the Valley of the known as el-qurn, or the horn, rises above a When viewed from the entrance to somewhat resembles a natural convenient landform may have relieved and allowed them an equally prestigious untold amount of energy and manpower in Egypt's manual laborers could the age of the pyramids came to an end. Still, that was a long time in the future, dynasties of Egypt, royal monument confidently. But in the sixth dynasty, began to decline. an increasing decentralization of the power of the king. Kingdom was named Pepi II. six, and ruled for more than sixty years. child, as we can see from one tomb named Harkhuf. career. He served southern provinces in the region of the to the south. four journeys of exploration he following the Nile down into the heart Egyptians called the horizon lands . He expeditions on the walls of his tomb. I brought back from there all sorts of for it very greatly. I came back with three precious oil, grain, leopard skins, and The boy pharaoh Pepi was so letter directly to him. The letter was has not survived, but luckily, Harkhuf was so he had the letter copied out word for proudest moment etched into stone for voice of this excitable young king. and favors. You wake and you sleep and commands. Unique friend Harkhuf! small man that Harkhuf had come across in him, perhaps either a man with dwarfism tribes of Central Africa. You have further said in this message god's dances from the land of the residence at once. Hurry and bring with alive, prosperous, and healthy, for the boat, have excellent people around him on wishes to see this particular dwarf However, as a pharaoh, Pepi was During his childhood, his much of the ruling, and as an adult, he approach to the kingdom. had been governed by regional were appointed by the pharaoh to rule Pepi's long reign saw an these regional governors. became hereditary rather than appointed, large amounts of power, and their tombs every passing year. look a lot like feudal lords or even amongst themselves. Meanwhile, the once frail and increasingly detached from the This might not have been a death this time that a record drought Eastern Mediterranean, starting around This climate shift we have 4.2 kiloyear event, and has been Akkadian Empire in Mesopotamia, and civilization in India and event was a series of years in which the agriculture came under immense pressure. long-lasting that the verdant lake at deep completely dried up over the next fifty plummeted. The long reign of a pharaoh kingdom. It tended to generate a period but when a king's rule went on too long, might call the old king problem . Pepi, along with his multiple wives, meant them now old men themselves with and they were all impatient to see this their chance to rule. When Pepi finally what followed was a succession proportions. The chaos serpent of Isfet of Egypt. In the two decades that followed, the pharaohs come and go, some perhaps dying their rivals. survive more than a year on the throne optimistically, tried his hand at ground of Saqqara. But this monument was a of the empire. meters high, it was smaller than the pyramids of that, it was lazily constructed around King Ibi, the man who was to be only two years, one month, and a day, Now, local nomarch governors declared alone. Their tombs around this time stop are full of boasts and elaborate titles themselves. One tomb inscription for a how the centralized power of the king I am the vanguard of the men, the land through active conduct, strong without Peer, who spoke out when people Upper Egypt was silent. Ankhtifi recalls the time of famine crisis rocked the struggling Old Kingdom. hunger to such a degree that everyone managed that no one died of hunger in become like a starved grasshopper, with south in search of grain. like the shape it had been before King centralized state nearly eight hundred roads. Another later Egyptian writer following this chaos, describes people violence spreading. The guardians of the house say, Let us go formed themselves into armed bands. The themselves with shields. A man regards every place. The inundation of the Nile Ipuwer describes a widespread economic lands dried up. now labor on farms, and those who tended in ploughing. today. What shall we do for cedar wood for are buried, and with the oil of which men They come no longer. Everything If I only knew where god was, Throughout this period of about two of a better time awaiting them in the time, known as the Prophecy of Neferti, come who would end this time of strife. A king will come. He will take the He will unite the two mighty lands. Asiatics will fall to his sword, and the rebels belong to his wrath, and the of him. prophecy, or rather, the man in whose written, would reunite Egypt and usher in His name was Nebhepetre Mentuhotep II. Mentuhotep was a king in the city of Sitting on the eastern bank of the Mediterranean, Thebes is one of the sunniest the capital of its own province always been something of a backwater and culture of Nubia. of chaos that surrounded the collapse of become the capital of the south, and its the great overlord of Upper Egypt. rows of houses, granaries, and workshops the god Amun, break from the suffocating influence of But in the north, near the ambitious and ruthless rival was also This was centered around the city region between the river Nile and desert Thebans dismissively called the known as Heracleopolis, or the city of this time of dissolution, Thebes and small border regions, forts, and roads, but hand. That was until the reign of the He was named after the Theban god of kings. He clearly desired to bring this conclusion and reunite the fractured The final confrontation between by a rebellion in the city of Thinis, once of the vassals of Thebes. the northern power of Henen-Nesut seized the desert to capture the town. War soon raged across all pushed south and captured the ancient, unleashed a wave of destruction against One later text known as the written by a king of northern Henen-Nesut, destruction of this sacred city. time; the province of Theese was ravaged. learned it after it was done. There was is evil to destroy. like. To every action, there is a response. This response would come in the king of Thebes, Mentuhotep. He would march into the north and Next, he rounded on the northern funerary monuments of its kings were a sacking of the city. Whatever the center of Abydos, it was clearly visited tenfold. Mentuhotep now swept through governors saw the writing on the wall, centuries of dissolution, the two halves The period that followed, known as the around three hundred years, but it has not record. Compared to the towering pyramids magnificence of the later New Kingdom, it for grand monument construction. flourishing in another area; that is, in literature. One famous story written Sinuhe. It narrates the life of a man who but who eventually becomes homesick and Another collection of stories was ancient Arabian Nights, known as the It relates a number of were told to the great Pharaoh Khufu of Another story written during the the Shipwrecked Sailor, a kind of ancient its innovative structure, a tale within a Mediterranean who finds himself on an A storm came up, with us on the harbor. The wind grew sharp and made a fourteen-foot-high waves. me, and then the ship was dead. survived. Then I was carried to a desert The man speaks with the great serpent, that his whole family was killed when a man not to fear, that a ship will him, and reassures him that he will soon Now, you are going to spend one four months on this island; then a ship whom you know, that you may go with them What joy for one who lives, to tell suffering is over! Finally, the predicted ship arrives, and At last the ship arrived just as and recognized the sailors in the ship, Then I descended to the shore near where thanks beside the sea to the Lord of We have examples of myths and religious texts, but this is not the of the gods. It's a story about an told seemingly just for the and for that reason, it is possibly the written around the year 1900 BC, and is The lives of Egypt's pharaohs take up so history partly because they are the ones monuments, and the statues. But as the literature continued, we get more and for ordinary people in the Nile known as the Papyrus Lansing gives a Egypt's common people. rhetoric by a master scribe to one of become a scribe in turn, and from of all the ways that people could Young fellow writing, to him who profession. It is pleasanter than bread is more precious than an inheritance in thyself with your own eye; here, all the The washer-man spends the whole day going whitening the clothes of his neighbors The potter is smeared with mud, like full of clay. He is like one who lives in The cobbler mixes tanning lotions; with dye, like one who is smeared with The florist makes bouquets and spends a night of toil sweating, like one The merchants fare downstream and carrying wares from one town to another, If thou hast any Whether or not daily life was truly that tell, because of course, none of them Most of Egypt's people were peasant these other professions, they likely These peasants did not own the land they the food they produced to the crown or To supplement their diets, most which the women would tend while the men Egyptian women were also ate every day. with emmer wheat. Dough was often pressed people got creative, baking bread in shaped molds to bake loaves in the form Those who could afford it also finest flour, sweetened with dates and their bread, Egyptians ate a onions, lettuce, celery, cucumbers, gourds, They supplemented these with high- and chickpeas, and a kind of edible tuber base of wetland sedges. oil, at least from the time the At times, they would also eat meat, well as quail, pigeon, duck, geese, and and even hedgehogs. spiky creatures by wrapping them in wet clay was cracked open afterwards, it took Egyptians also made cheese and even foie gras, One text written by a scribe to share with others the food they have. stands by without extending your hand to is man who does not last; one man is rich, who shares it. Egypt, and people consumed it daily. As a of industry. given to Egypt by the goddess Hathor, the breweries were watched over by the factories were run by women. Some of brewing more than a million liters a propped up on mud bricks over crackling barley and water, then left the mixture with honey and syrups made of dates and There was even one annual festival become known as the Festival of Drunkenness . During this fiesta, Egyptians and then fall asleep together in a large together by the loud beating of drums. It waking, some of them would meet the Egypt was one of the most stable the ancient world, but it was a society storage of grain. As a result, there was presence of mice and rats. granaries within the towns, shaped like barley was poured in through a hole in air. When grain was needed for bread- a small door in the bottom of these or even ate the grain while it was still work could be wasted, and people might But thankfully, Egyptians were allies; that was the domestic cat. There were two major breeds of wild Felis chaus, and the African wild cat, Of these, the African wild cat had was most commonly bred as a pet, with from at least five thousand years ago. These cats were kept around Egyptian both in controlling mice and with their ability to kill venomous snakes. also enjoyed their company, and even Some particularly beloved pets were serve them well in the cat afterlife. recalls seeing Egyptians performing When one of these animals dies, they and beating their breasts, carry it off treated with cedar oil and such spices pleasant odor and of preserving the body consecrated tomb. While the earliest domestication of the fertile crescent, it was in Egypt that it As cats got used to their adapt. They largely lost their original even developed new ways of signaling to cries, modulated human baby. was miu . Over time, this adoration of their religious reverence, too. Egypt were associated with femininity, house household dog sitting below a woman's chair. soon become revered, and she manifested cat. Bastet became a god of fertility, and of childbirth and pregnancy. an Egyptian festival during which cats For the cats, they break up bread clucking sound, set it before them, or and feed the flesh to them raw. All who and render them with honor. protective of their feline companions, as Whoever kills a cat, whether he is certainly put to death, and deal with the perpetrator most waiting for a trial. would continue throughout all the history, and for the cats, it is perhaps quite forgotten. The Middle Kingdom was not pleasure. With the mania for pyramid- pharaohs engaged in large-scale develop the empire. One king spent much around the oasis at Faiyum, determined to Another built a large series of hemming Egypt off from the people of the called Asiatics. depicted in their paintings with lighter, and were held in general contempt as The Egyptians soon began this area, expanding their territory into Palestine. They crossed the Sinai city of Byblos. Then they turned their the Egyptians called the horizon lands , Like the light-skinned Asiatics in the southern Nubians different to them, and than Egyptians, and more typically kingdoms were relatively underdeveloped, expansionist Egypt. We've already seen that the first the granite bedrock forced the water rapids. If an Ancient Egyptian traveled horizon lands, they would encounter five These are each places where the becomes difficult, and so, there were They were also the obvious place to draw marched into the horizon lands multiple far as the second cataract. Kingdom king named Senusret III marched kingdoms of Kush and Punt. He inscription. The Nubians are wretches, is not an untruth. I have captured their poisoned their wells, killed their cattle, In this remorseless fashion, Senusret built a powerful set of fortresses. purpose from the names the Egyptians named Crushing the Nubians , while another Lands . In another imposing fortress at upstream from the former border of Aswan, following triumphant inscription. the king made his southern south than my father's. I have added to mine, who shall maintain this border But he who abandons it, who fails to born to me. These forts were manned by powerful keeping order among the newly-colonized paranoid surveillance regime of the To the pharaoh Senusret, they sent back about the movements of even the most have survived. patrol the desert edge from the fortress growing season, have come to report to me men and three donkeys. All these dispatches end in the same way, reassurance to the king. are safe and sound. All the affairs But we have reason to believe that reassured. He is famous for the numerous statues carved from black diorite that fashion, unlike any depictions of a statues, his ears are extended to projecting the image of a king who heard his extensive system of spies. particular show the king first as a boy, this final statue, we get a sense for the the top of this paranoid system; the face contorted in an expression of Today, these three statues stand as Egyptian Middle Kingdom had sunk into Senusret's son, Amenemhat III, did urged, and held the southern border But following his reign, Egypt crisis. The crisis was so severe that until then been almost unthinkable; a was Sobekneferu, possibly the pharaoh. She was probably not the first the first one to attain the full masculine titles in her inscriptions, and an unconventional mixture of male and However, she did not succeed in She died after ruling for only four After that, the serpent Isfet During the time that followed, there were 150 years during which at Egypt once again split in two, and king in their tomb inscriptions. had already become small and meager, their construction stopped altogether. simple shaft tombs, little better than Lower Egypt had already broken away from people of Nubia were in open forced to let go of their southern forts, Nubians. Once a symbol of the empire's became unprecedented military assets for powerful raiding parties ranged ever Egyptians had shown to their Nubian full. With the northern and southern trade links with the rest of the world It was also during this time Mediterranean, in fact, of the largest natural disasters in That is the eruption of the island of Santorini, only seven hundred It's likely that the Egyptians explosion, which went off with the force When the Indonesian volcano Krakatoa more than three thousand kilometers away, was at least four times more volcanic crater left by the eruption is This event may have ejected more than forty atmosphere. The black plume would have it would have triggered tsunamis ten meters regions, as well as causing a volcanic the Minoan civilization on Crete in one Atlantis myth, and record a period when the sky turned a fell. One Egyptian inscription known as of this terrifying event. The gods expressed their discontent. with a tempest. It caused darkness in the more powerful on the mountains than the Each house, each shelter that they barks of papyrus outside the royal Volcanic ash, or tephra, would have and today could be detected at virtually Spurred by this natural disaster and Egyptian administration, soon famine once Among all of this, a powerful and been watching. Mediterranean region from across the conquer Egypt and rule it for themselves. The word Hyksos comes from the of foreign lands . is unknown, but it's thought they may and one thing seems to have been behind and that was the chariot. At this point, some form of societies for many cart with four solid, wooden wheels Sumerian standard of Ur, which was pyramids of Giza were being built. But kind of vehicle, and over the preceding leaps forward. brought into Egypt for the first time fast, and they were each pulled by two introduced to the region, the horse. These chariots were strong and mobile battle lines, while onboard archers with missiles. Whether the Hyksos arrived in peaceful migration is somewhat up for settling in the Nile Delta for centuries, already what the Egyptians would rulers arrived. But the Hyksos were They set up their own kingdom Avaris, and in a devastating blow to capture the ancient capital of Memphis. records the arrival of the Hyksos. By main force, they easily seized the having overpowered the rulers of the ruthlessly, razed to the ground the Finally, they appointed as king one levying tribute from Upper and Lower in the most advantageous positions. of Egyptian prestige, were now in foreign back to their former capital in Upper With the Nubians increasingly threat of these Hyksos kings looming from increasingly felt like they were being For a time, it must have seemed like the One king named Kamose, who came to would put this intolerable situation in I should like to know what serves is in Avaris and another in Kush, and I each in possession of his slice of Egypt, Memphis. No man can settle down when I will grapple with him, that I may rip and to smite the Asiatic! King Kamose may have had a very personal The mummified remains of the uncovered, and modern analysis shows that from a heavy, bladed weapon. These blows his jaw and skull, leading many to The king's body was then rushed back to mummified. If Prince Kamose saw his carried back into the city, we can only have burned in his heart towards the But many in Kamose's court were Hyksos would do to the fragile state of One text known as the Carnarvon Tablet to maintain the peace. Egypt. Aswan at the first cataract is is with us. Men till for us the finest of pasture in the papyrus marshes. Corn is taken away. He holds the land of the comes against us, should we act against him. He wanted to strike a blow at to secure the southern border first and before the second cataract of the Nile. bastions built by Senusret III, and it was built from stone rather than brick. But its garrison had served a Nubian lord If the southern border was to hold north, he would need to recapture the Kamose marched south, preparing to sighting the enormous Egyptian army on got the message and decided to swear fight. With this powerful fort now Thebes and prepared for the next bring war to the Hyksos and unite Egypt In the third year of his reign, I sailed north in my might to of Amun, with my brave army before me atop our fighting decks. the Hyksos in what appears to have been off guard, the foreigners were defeated When day dawned, I was upon him came, I overthrew him, having destroyed made his wife descend to the river bank. spoil chattels, cattle, fat, honey dividing As for Avaris on the two rivers, I laid their towns and burned their homes to forever, because of the destruction they who had allowed themselves to hearken to Egypt, their mistress. immediately appealed to his Nubian ally, the Egyptians intercepted a secret roads, the contents of which they recorded. Have you noticed what Egypt has Kamose, penetrates my territory even you. He chooses these two lands in and he has ravaged them. Come northward; the towns of Egypt. When this messenger returned to with the letter undelivered, he must have came to a swift end, and Kamose his heroic return to Thebes. What a happy home trip for the army ahead of him! They had no casualties, their hearts weep! I moored on home soil riverbank was resplendent! Thebes was every woman hugged her neighbor, no one His son Ahmose would press this devastating campaign, seized the ancient Ahmose would be the first recapture the great pyramids of Giza, and he gazed up at the monuments of his more than a thousand years old. and he would even build a pyramid of Abydos. This was one of the first since the fall of the Middle Kingdom, and renewal of the empire's great legacy. pyramid built by an Egyptian ruler. Ahmose marched north and even crossed the heartland of the Hyksos people, and seizing modern Gaza. southern people of Kush, and pushed the had ever been, island of Sai, now in northern suddenly reemerged as a major regional New Kingdom. During the five centuries of the New territorial extent and construct some of artifacts. Despite recapturing Memphis, capital again, and so they now once again the river in Upper Egypt. technology of the horse-drawn chariot from made up of powerful contingents of these saw the rule of its first great woman most prolific builders. She constructed the stately mortuary temple known as the voyage in five ships to the land of Punt, incense trees and other goods to Egypt, The ships returned with the the good woods of Ta-Netjer, with heaps of fragrance, with ebony and pure ivory, land of the Amu, with hides of the beginning of the world have the like of The New Kingdom would also see some the royal courts of Egypt. Of these, none story of one pharaoh. He has been others as a visionary, and by others He was a ruler named Amunhotep IV. Amunhotep came to the throne around his father, who had ruled as Amunhotep III. Like most Egyptian names, it meant Amun is satisfied . Amun had long been the god of the god of fertility and of the wind. But and Thebes became the capital once more, promotion. He was unified with the now known as Amun-Ra, the perfect symbol Amun-Ra was depicted as a man high crown, and later would be shown with This new deity was placed at the the Egyptians worshiped; the king of the One hymn to Amun-Ra describes Lord of truth, father of the lord of things that are, creator of the The pharaoh Amunhotep IV would of his rule, but around his fifth year on decision to change his royal name. That's of belief that he wanted to spread over the messiness of Egyptian religion and different cities, different temples and system of worship that focused not on seems to have believed was his true a bare, impersonal disc showering the called simply the orb, or in Egyptian, the perhaps even written by the pharaoh new god was supposed to have. O sole god, like whom there is no according to thy desire. other who knows you. Every land chatters Around year five of his reign, the name that paid respect to the god Amun, god. This new name meant effective spirit He was now the pharaoh Akhenaten. Akhenaten is the first recorded religion by himself. He was also the In Akhenaten s kingdom, only the were eventually shut down, and all king even sent out workmen and soldiers into temples with hammers and chisels, walls. His determination to rid his even sent workmen climbing to the top of name of Amun from the pyramid's topmost were to placating a whole host of deities shift must have seemed like a have feared to turn their backs on their new and untested ideology. king's word, and for the most part, they At first, Akhenaten converted old began constructing some new ones, but he Thebes' old temples were praising the other gods, and the depth of overnight. Thebes was also home to a his reforms. took the remarkable decision to build an out in the middle of the desert, at a between Memphis and Thebes. He would or in Egyptian, Akhetaten. Standing out on the bare and level city, the pharaoh Akhenaten gave the The Aten desires that there eternal and everlasting name. counsel concerning it. No official has people who are in the entire land. of Aten. This new city would be furnished palaces for Akhenaten and his chief wife gardens, tombs, administrative buildings, temple complex to the new god, Aten. take at least eight years, and when it was Akhenaten held a magnificent At his new capital, Akhenaten received from the Hittites, from Syria and islands Crete, as well as from the Nubian lands to bear witness to the glory of his new his empire. the common people may have fretted, but he have been grand, full of celebration and of incense, and feasts of fine foods. listening to the singing of hymns like Thou didst create the world and wild beasts, whatever is on Earth flying with its wings. The countries of settest every man in his place, thou suppliest their necessities. Their tongues are separate in speech, and their natures as well. Every one has his food, and his time of life is reckoned. But the consequences of this piece plague had been spreading around the lands in Syria and the Hittite Empire in One group of texts written around Prayers, invoke the gods to deliver them For twenty years now, people have be removed from Hatti? I cannot control control the anguish of my soul. from all over the region with large slaves in tow, a deadly dose of this of Egypt, and from there would have Akhenaten had hoped that this ceremony his new god, then it couldn't have In the pandemic that may even have occurred within Akhenaten's mother, his wife, and three of his severe, even in the relatively protected population at large, the effects were Egypt, this incomprehensible disaster the old gods on the man who had so Akhenaten died only a few years later, rule. After his death, some members of his the Aten in the now plague-ravaged new They would take turns to rule for much success. it was teetering on the brink of sons, a boy of only eight years old, His father had given him the image of the Aten , but he would not rule his father's new faith and to enormous third year of his rule, he changed his by, the living image not of Aten, but of welcomed back by the people of Egypt. As symbolized by his change of name, number of his father's attempted reforms. and reinstated Amun to supremacy in cults of other gods, and restored the priesthood. Many temples to the Aten in their painted bricks were used as filler Everyone seemed to be in agreement; the better off forgotten. Today, the boy king Tutankh-Amun Egyptian pharaohs, more famous than the pharaoh's Djoser and Sneferu, who perfected Kamose or Ahmose, the Hyksos, more famous than his colorful Hatshepsut. But there's nothing in his reign recognition. In fact, this boy king died years of rule. king, and popular, and set Egypt back on But the source of his fame was really accident. When he died in 1323 BC, the boy the Valley of the Kings. It was not a a far cry from the glorious pyramids of sealed, there was a chance flash flood in doorway to the tomb was buried in sand concealed. For the next Valley of the Kings, stealing from nearly making away with their treasures, their decorations. Tutankh-Amun s tomb remains sealed. until the year 1922, Egyptologist Howard Carter, and all its international astonishment. these, the golden burial mask of Tutankh-Amun, from the ancient world, a resplendent At times, it can be hard to a portrait of a boy who had power thrust strife, looking up at us from the dark The New Kingdom of Egypt would after the reign of Tutankh-Amun. of perhaps the greatest Egyptian pharaoh. Ramesses II, but he would go down in history Ramesses came to the throne at the At the time, Egypt's Mediterranean pirates, and he spent much of his early is most famous for pushing the into the region of Syria. powerful rival had grown up in the was steadily spreading its influence in This was the powerful Hittite capital of Hattusha. power in the region, but their territory They had mastered the use of light hit-and-run vehicles into heavy, two centuries, Egypt had been fighting who would control the region of reign, Ramesses II gathered an the Sinai Desert to Gaza, and from there One epic poem written about this that Ramesses brought. His Majesty journeyed northward, his to march on the good way. Every foreign chiefs were bringing their tribute, and through dread of the personality of His Majesty. Ramesses' aim was to capture the along the sandy banks on a fork of the For years now, Kadesh had been against one another, allying first with determined to finally seize Kadesh for Egypt. He marched north with four of his Seth, and Ptah. With him he brought thousands chariot riders he sent by sea, telling inland to meet him on the day that he At first, everything seemed to be scouts captured a pair of tribesmen from Hittite king was cowering further to the Egypt, they said. He had left Kadesh threw all caution to the wind and with only one of his four divisions, his to be a fatal mistake. these Shasu tribesmen were actually him into a trap. When he arrived at Kadesh, Ramesses set scouts set out into the surrounding these scouts ran into a pair of Hittite undergrowth, watching them. They capture the Hittites. these men revealed what lay waiting for the Hittite armies amassed in an ambush, Kadesh. The Kadesh poem records this Now the wretched foe of Hatti had to the very ends of the sea; the land of mountains and the valleys like the multitudes. He left neither silver nor its possessions, and gave them to all to combat. Ramesses flew into a rage with his had hurried ahead with his Amun division, with his reinforcements in the Ra The Hittites would not allow the division could arrive, a terrifying force hiding and swept across the river their day, heavy and armored, their riders toes. These chariots rolled in and frantically tried to form a shield wall. division completely, and then rounded on Ramesses was surrounded, cut off from outnumbered. But in this dire situation, led them in a desperate charge against I found the 2,500 spans of heaps of corpses before my horse. Not their hearts quailed in their bodies were powerless so they could not shoot, Whether or not this self- depiction of that day, it's clear that The Egyptian soldiers were elite may have been mercenaries or division and sweeping into the Egyptians many of the Hittite soldiers, believing the rather than press their advantage. were soon arriving from the south, and as contingent of elite charioteers that had on the scene. horizon was enough to steel the resolve will of the Hittites. Ramesses gives a florid rendition of I made them plunge into the water falling upon their faces, one on another, Neither could one look behind him, nor them fell, he could not raise himself. The Hittite army withdrew, with Orontes River. sides clashed again, but both had been fighting. After a few hours of bloody king sent him a peace offer. The Egyptians lacked any siege Kadesh, and the only option to take the during which Ramesses would have found his and prone to encirclement. declare victory and march back to Egypt. victory, and the city of Kadesh would Despite the overflowing praise of Kadesh poem, the war actually ended with remained unresolved. thought back to his role during the he would decorate the walls of his relief carving of every one of the The war with the Hittites would during this time, Egypt would often Mediterranean coast, only to lose it both sides grew weary of this The war was finally brought to history as the first written peace Behold, Hattusili, the ruler of the Ramesses, chosen one of Ra, the great perfect peace and brotherhood may be brotherhood and peace with me, and I forever. The treaty was written on silver Egyptians being given a copy. Its text Hittite cuneiform, but the two wordings. In a diplomatic stroke of the Hittites had come begging Egypt for accepted, while in the Hittite version, it war. With both sides thus able to save allowed to come to an end, and nearly a ensued. Despite the the pride Ramesses took treaty that we most remember, and a United Nations headquarters in New York. After what seemed like a lucky attention away from war and towards of his rule building temples and his name is the one that appears on the pharaoh. This is partly due to his to the fact that he ensured his name was any other pharaoh, so deep that it could Ramesses II would rule for a total of perhaps Egypt's greatest pharaoh. His Ramesses, which the Greeks would later pronounce; they would call him Ozymandias. the Greek writer Diodorus of Sicily of visiting one monument to Ramesses II. At its entrance, there is a pylon plethora in breadth and forty-five cubits high. kings am I, Ozymandias. am and where I lie, let him surpass one Ramesses would also build a new capital for ambitions lying in the north, he decided Delta, and in characteristic fashion, he Per-Ramesses, or the house of the beauty of this new city. The residence is pleasant in life; its full of supplies and food every day, its Its meadows are verdant with grass, its on the sands. Its granaries are so full near to the sky; red wedj fish swim in live on lotus flowers. been associated with the city of Ramesses, the second book of the Hebrew enslaved Hebrews forced to work on the The reality of the Exodus story has now consider it to be a piece of ancient large population of Hebrew slaves ever Ramesses was built by slaves at all. More usual combination of skilled artisans But with the proximity of the certainly not impossible that some of had traveled across the Sinai to sell If that were the case, then for one impression in the archaeological record, our collective imaginations. When Ramesses finally died in 1213 BC, old. His reign had been one of Egypt's again created that old king problem; all the time of his death, twelve of his oldest thirteenth son took the throne at the age Merneptah. But only a few years into this devastating new enemy. the west of the Nile Delta. Meryey, had seemingly planned his attack Libyan army flooded through Egypt's reinforced with groups of people from Greece, Sardinia, Sicily, and elsewhere group of peoples that had suddenly begun the Eastern Mediterranean. known as the sea peoples. this event on one carved stelae. The wretched fallen chief of Libya, Meryre, of Tehenu with his bowmen; Sherden, Shekelesh, warrior and every man of war of his children; leaders of the camp, and he has fields of Perire. The pharaoh Merneptah defeated this invasion, try such a surprise attack, he had many the road into Memphis. Mercy! Not one raises his head among Hatti is pacified; plundered is the Canaan All lands together, they are pacified. But these lands would not stay After the death of the pharaoh period of civil strife, with the would take the crown. region also once again began to droughts. What caused this climate As we saw in our second may have been volcanic, with a large volcano of Hekla around this time. Others around 1300 BC may have been to blame, or may have resumed some activity some five eruption. The cause may not have been to variations in the sun's activity or depriving the Mediterranean of moisture. planet's climate system is fragile, relatively small changes in its effects. During this time, formerly green plants suited to desert landscapes and oxygen isotopes in cave mineral and 12th centuries BC saw much less rain centuries. Alongside this scientific drought in the region's written records, too. Egypt's great rivals, the Hittites, in particularly hard by the to us that seems to capture the spirit of Telepinu. convention known as the vanishing god is so offended by the misdeeds of sorrow and abandons his fertility, and the weather. The beginning know what it was humanity did to provoke deadly consequences. Thereupon, soot beset the windows; lay crammed on the hearth. Off stalked took away from field and meadow. and in a copse he buried yield produce; oxen, sheep, and men ceased conceived did not bear. and put forth no new branches. A famine arose in the land; men and gods While the Egyptians may have rival, in Egypt, the situation was hardly year 1200 BC is called the Lament to Amun, in a darkening age. Come to me, father Amun, protect me confrontation. God shines in the sun, yet upon summer; months happen backwards; cut down in high places cry out to you, poisoned air, spoken by herdsmen in clothes on the banks of the river, by precincts, by horned beasts on our From this period of unrest and lasted for about a century, a military rise to power. dying and passing the throne on to his was the empire's last hope and if such a hope was to be sustained, possibly rule under. his great predecessor, who had ruled the battle of Kadesh. And so, this boy would This new boy king Ramesses was a clear that he openly admired and sought old. He even went so far as to name Ramesses II, and also gave them all the It was clear he wanted to do glory days that had slipped out of his inscriptions. height of heaven, for I am ruler of the The gods have appointed me to be king for her from the countries; they decreed and my reign is full of plenty. Under other circumstances, Ramesses rulers, but the entire region was soon to wars. One of the great drivers of these peoples that had first appeared in the known as the sea peoples. These invaders were now greater numbers, apparently spurred by Western Europe. Already, powerful trading been attacked by sea, seemingly by destroyed so thoroughly that they were The Egyptians great rivals, the Hittites, trade networks around the region went Ramesses remembers this time of descended on the coast. The northerners in their isles were stood before their lands; from Kheta, They set up a camp in one place in Amor. that which is not. When news of the sea people's attacks for about eight years. He had already Libya and must have been rising in soon he got word that the fleet of the sea to Egypt, as he recounts in the inscription They came with fire prepared before was Peleset, Thekel, Shekelesh, Denyen, and their hands upon the land as far as the confident, full of their plans. Ramesses knew that these attackers would he would make his stand at the mouth of delta. He would have to play to what this challenging terrain. give the sea peoples a surprise attack Now, it happened through this god, the armed to trap them like wild fowl. I before them. The chiefs, the captains of the harbor-mouths like a strong wall, They were manned completely from bearing their arms, soldiers of all the roaring upon the mountaintops. Their limb, ready to crush the countries under As the enemy's ships amassed, Ramesses by spearmen and cavalry in their tension must must have been tremendous, holding their breath and waiting for ship. Then at last, a sail was another, until the whole fleet of the sea have been able to hear the creak of shouts of the helmsmen and soldiers. were within range, Ramesses rained down on the ships. land on the banks, but as they did, the treeline and met them with a shield Egyptian navy sailed in down the river. Those who reached my boundary, their forever and ever. As for those who had full flame was in their front, before the the shore surrounded them. They were beach; slain, and made heaps from stern to things were cast upon the water. remember Egypt, and when they even consume them with fear. Egyptians were the first people to turn campaign of destruction. ends on the following triumphant note. Rejoice ye, O Egypt; I have expelled and I have made you dwell in peace. Those But despite their victory, the a devastated region. around them had been gutted and reduced civilizations, the Mycenaean Greeks, collapsed, and civil order had given way which they had all relied to supply them now broken, and Egypt's economy went By the end of this period, which has collapse, Egypt was a shadow of its enemies encroached on its but its treasury became so depleted that power. The first workers strike in 29th year of Ramesses III's reign, when rations for its elite artisans who were village of Deir el-Medina. The lack of eventually marched through the town We're hungry. There's no more more vegetables. Send word to the crucial workers, we can only imagine the dispute dragged on for weeks, with one to damage a royal monument if they were never have dared to make unless the to be seriously undermined. Ramesses III ruled for another sea peoples, for a total reign of thirty-one members of his family were beginning to In the Egyptian court, all of and other consorts, all lived together in land. This was convenient for the king, intrigue. There was a strict hierarchy to that the children of his main wife were of the women who were lower down on this to improve their stations, and perhaps instead. One of these women was a queen wife of Ramesses, and throne. In order to remedy this situation, history as the harem conspiracy. members of the king's household and even as one later papyrus records. land. The great criminal, who was then with Tiye and the women of the harem. He had to bring out their words to their there, saying, Stir up the people! Incite Alarmingly, one of the palace women a commander of Nubian troops in their plot. Others had even turned to effigies of the king's bodyguards and scheme. Their plan was clear; to kill Pentawer as pharaoh. during the annual ceremony known as which was held in Thebes every year at harvesting season of Shemu. of the biggest of the year, the pharaoh and colorful procession, carrying the Amun, Mut, and Khonsu. He would then board statues down to the Theban necropolis to inscription by a Theban priest describes. We go giving praise to Amun, the Gods on his festivals, the first day to the valley. offerings of food and drink and flowers, three statues. festival progressed, the plotters took a strike at the king. pharaoh was relaxing in the royal harem perhaps thinking ahead to his role in assassins crept up on him with knives. Their attack was swift and brutal. reveals that his throat was cut right to the trachea, esophagus, and major blood seconds. Ramesses has no defensive wounds, unawares, but curiously, his big toe was This seems like an unlikely injury to his mummy have shown that the embalmers with him into the afterlife. This recovered, perhaps indicating that dead, or as a grizzly trophy. the sea peoples, but now he lay dying in his own family. not go as planned. In the aftermath of Ramesses III was able to crush the coup all put on trial, as well as any who had report it. In all, twenty-eight people were were even cruelly renamed after their plotters, who had commanded his Nubian Khaemwaset, a name which meant came from renamed Binemwaset, or evil in Thebes . Ra , but he was given the somewhat spiteful Although order had been restored to reduced state. The death of Ramesses was heirs. Three of his sons would become need to memorialize him and shore up as Ramesses IV, VI, and VIII. row would all be named Ramesses after the ineffectual and reigned for only a Meanwhile, Egypt was increasingly seasonal floodwaters, famines, civil Against this backdrop, by the begun to fill the vacuum left by royal Amun in Thebes. This priesthood had become not wealthy. Through a centuries-long game of controlled two-thirds of all the temple lands ships, along with mountains of gold. prophets and interpreters of the god influence over the kings and their had changed the rules of the priesthood on to their sons, essentially becoming a lands of Upper Egypt. One inscription on Nebwenenef describes the power of You are now high priest of Amun. His seal. You are chief executive of his under your authority. Dendera, shall now be under the authority your forefathers, the position which you Soon, the high priests in Egypt, even having themselves buried in armies. In many ways, the pharaoh had irrelevance, and perhaps for that reason, With the death of Ramesses XI, fractured less than eighty years after the Egypt would never regain its former power. For the next four centuries, steady but unstoppable time is called the Tale of Wenamun. It travels to the north to collect some Phoenician city of Byblos, but while pharaoh no longer holds the kind of Wenamun is robbed on his journey and That morning when I had risen, I him, I've been robbed in your harbor. Now, the one who controls it. Search for my king of gods, lord of the lands. He said Indeed, I do not understand the demand To make matters worse, the king of Byblos that the pharaoh demands. true event or is simply a piece of either way, it points to the much-reduced something that had clearly become common knowledge. northern Nile Delta through much of the Libyan invaders, peoples from along the While the earliest of these Libyan names, by the 22nd and 23rd dynasties, more ethnically Libyan names, and even underline their identity. an unruly bunch who held close to their distracted by warring amongst themselves Meanwhile, the high priests of Amun Thebes. But even further to the south, in rising. This was the Nubian kingdom of Kush. As one of the two main African located at the fourth cataract of the today. For centuries now, this Nubian boot of Egypt. had seen Egyptian armies stamp out any East Africa. But now Egypt fractured and the Libyan Kings themselves, the Kushites were free to During Egypt's many attempts to Egypt had left a number of powerful had even become the capital of Kush, the but the Egyptians had also left religion. The upper classes in Kush had worship. Kushite rulers even referred to When Herodotus traveled down the described this region, which he knew as Ethiopia. Above Elephantine, the country and half the people of the island are Near to the island is a great lake, Ethiopians. The people of the place Osiris. These they greatly honor, and they While Egypt had stopped building earlier, Kushite kings had taken up the classic Egyptian style. Egyptian than the Egyptians. wealthy, too, its economy boosted by the trade with Sub-Saharan Africa. powerful army. seize upon the opportunity that the While the Libyan kings of Egypt Kashta worked to gain influence over the had his own daughter appointed to the the great temple of Thebes. she moved to consolidate her power and her father's kingdom of Kush. distracted by their civil wars, did Upper Egypt was now ruled by Nubians. When the Kushite king Kashta died, Kushite Empire. Piye marched his Nubian armies down the of Lower Egypt. approach, and allowed any local governors they swore allegiance to him. A victory victories, which he dedicates to the old Hear what I have done in exceeding I am the king, the the womb marked as ruler, who is feared knew and whose mother perceived even in of the gods, the son of Ra, beloved of Amun. His son Shebitku solidified these the next century, Egypt would be ruled by Over the decades that followed, these adoption of Egyptian culture. gave each other Egyptian names, and apparent devotion. enthusiastic program of pyramid-building seen in centuries, if nothing quite like Kingdom. But this flourishing of Egyptian because to the north, a power had finally Empire for good. As we saw in our thirteenth episode, Assyria and Euphrates rivers in Mesopotamia, and most powerful empire on Earth. more than 100,000 soldiers, and under the they were now pressing their power far soon they dreamed of bringing it to the The Nubian pharaoh who would face Taharqa was the fifth king of the proud of his heritage and his skin color. commissioned were carved from hard, black Egypt as a young prince, and had been previous pharaoh, as he writes in one among the royal brothers that his liked me more than all his brothers and I won the heart of all the nobles and royal hawk had flown to heaven that I Curiously, Taharqa was also a distance running, and insisted that all marathon practices. horseback to see his army running when behind Memphis in the ninth hour of the hour of sunrise, and they returned to the This extreme stamina would serve successful assaults on Libyan positions in Palestine. was lucky; a series of exceptional Nile crops. Funds were clearly so forthcoming the Temple of Amun, and restored several inscriptions boasts. loves the god, he spends the day and lies gods, building their temples fallen into as in the primeval times, building presenting them with offerings of fine Now, the heart of His Majesty is to them every day. This land is inundated lord of all, every man sleeping until dawn Egypt was now of a size and collapse of the New Kingdom almost four the dawn of a new era of prosperity, but In the year 674 BC, in Taharqa's seven- terrifying army approaching from the Esarhaddon of Assyria. Few foes had ever beaten the must have spread up and down the Nile. was able to repel this force. records a fantastical story in which attacked by a horde of nighttime pests. Where the road comes into Egypt, were overrun by a horde of field mice handles of shields, with the result that next day. For this reason, to this day, a temple with a mouse in his hand. What exactly this account records outbreak of plague among the Assyrian Perhaps it was even a daring nighttime were to run long distances in the middle into the darkness. their army in disarray, the Assyrian army chariots right back to their borders, unsurprisingly, the Assyrian sources make humiliating defeat. was clearly sufficient that three years larger Assyrian army and marched back to in its way. The Assyrians flooded into the Nile into the south. The Assyrian advance was to evacuate his family when he left the the Assyrian king wrote the following I slew multitudes of his men and my javelin, with wounds from which there in half a day, with mines, tunnels, destroyed, I devastated, I burned with the rest of his sons and daughters, his cattle, his sheep, in countless numbers, I I tore up out of Egypt, and not one of Egypt I appointed new kings, viceroys, scribes. My royal tribute and tax, yearly But if Esarhaddon had hoped to easily mistaken. Just a year later, the Nubian reinforced with troops from the kingdom Numerous governors that Esarhaddon loyalties, and the whole Assyrian Enraged, King Esarhaddon marched but his health failed on the journey, and reaching Egypt. Esarhaddon s son who took the throne Virtually his first act as king was to rebellious province of Egypt to finish Ashurbanipal easily overwhelmed the now Memphis, and in 663 BC, returned again to This time, he marched south up ancient capital of Thebes. Taharqa had died, and his nephew Egypt. Tantamani met the Assyrians in battle, last of Egypt's hope would die. defenseless city of Thebes. happened next on one carved cylinder. This city, the whole of it, I Ishtar. Silver, gold, precious stones, all precious linen, great horses, supervising electrum weighing 2,500 talents. The doors and carried them off to I left Thebes. lifted my spear and shown my power. The Assyrian sack of Thebes was Though Assyria would not hold within only about fifty years, Egyptian century later, Egypt was conquered by the was conquered again by the Macedonian When Alexander's empire collapsed, of his ex-generals, Ptolemy Soter. For the ruled by his Greek Ptolemaic dynasty, who the native Egyptian language. when the tide of Roman expansion swept The last independent ruler of Ptolemaic glory of her father , from kleos , meaning Her name was Cleopatra. It's unclear if Cleopatra had unknown, but she did at least make an remembers. It was a pleasure merely to like an instrument of many strings, she so that there were few of the barbarian interpreter; to most of them she spoke Arabians, Syrians, Parthians, and many which was all the more surprising predecessors, scarcely gave themselves tongue. When Rome finally invaded and committed suicide, most likely by with a needle dipped in toxin. The more a venomous snake to kill herself was whether true or not, has proved including, most famously, William the year 30 BC, the final vestige of On the day of her death, Cleopatra thousand years of Egyptian history. To her, the 2,500 years old, meaning that Cleopatra the building of the Great Pyramid, by As Egypt came under ever more gradually underwent a centuries, as the Greek alphabet became read hieroglyphics was slowly lost, as I asked why the inscriptions were indecipherable. learned men and those who used this been occupied by a succession of foreign have prevailed, and thus, they lost the ancestors. The last known hieroglyphic inscription Temple of Philae, built on an island near By then, the now-Christianized pagan gods in Egypt's temples, but this Rome's borders, and so, worship of the of Egypt's great temples. Anubis and Hathor, Amun and Bastet, Seth the incense still burned, the cats still given, but this island temple was crashing waters of a fast-changing world. The last hieroglyphic inscription named Nesmeterakhem, wishing that his like the carvings of his long-dead ancestors. Before Mandulis, Nesmeterakhem, son of Nesmeter, the eternity. Words spoken by Mandulis, lord As the last-ever inscription of its it's likely that by the time he chipped people alive would know how to hieroglyph died with him. some point in the 530s by the Byzantine into a Christian church to Saint and truly come to an end. Some 1,400 years later, in the year would enter into a friendly competition They had both read in a London newspaper Museum of a remarkable fragment of a mortuary temple in Thebes in Upper statue of Egypt's greatest pharaoh, the The statue was one of a pair that had European colonial powers had long statue. Napoleon Bonaparte during his time in Egypt in diorite too heavy to shift. hundreds of workmen pulling ropes, the banks of the Nile, where it was London. After reading about this statue, would each write a poem inspired by it, extract from the writings of the Greek once visited Ramesses II's temple in history has decisively concluded their remembered, but Shelley's poem has become a well-known sonnets in the English that has come to stand as an emblem of inevitable downfall of tyrants, the awe- transience of all things. I met a traveler from an antique trunkless legs of stone stand in the shattered visage lies, whose frown and tell that its sculptor well those on those lifeless things, the hand that on the pedestal these words appear: My my works, ye Mighty, and despair! decay of that colossal wreck, boundless stretch far away. On the tomb wall of a Pharaoh Intef literature known as the Harper s Song, It was a song designed to 4,200 years old. Percy Bysshe Shelley could not have literature, since hieroglyphics would not more years. But across the gulf of four this song both describe a human emotion of awe and melancholy we feel when we palaces of long-fallen emperors, at the dust. As you listen, time that separates our world from your language forgotten and your cities kings lying opened and robbed, the fallen in the sand, which shifts and rolls over sets red and blazing for a final time on One generation passes; another men of ancient times. The gods of long the great and blessed likewise Yet those who built great mansions, What has become of them all? and again, but where Their walls are in ruins and their has never been. to explain their present state of being, hearts until we make our journey to the So follow your heart and your as your heart dictates, surely come for you, so spend your days living. No man takes his things with him, again. Thank you once again for listening like to thank my voice actors for this Michael Hajiantonis, Tom Marshall-Lee, Paul Casselle. Readings in Arabic were Ancient Egyptian were performed by I'd also like to thank my Egyptologist Dr. Chris Naunton. A full list description below, and are publicly As some of you may be aware, Fall of book form around the world. The book is Greatness and Decline, by me, Paul Cooper. show, updated, expanded, and with maps and April of 2024 for UK readers, and later in Please head to fallofcivilizations.com and for pre-order links. rankings and supports the show. I love to Twitter, so please come and tell me what and if you'd like updates about episodes, as well as suggestions, you can follow the podcast separating the words. This podcast can generous subscribers on Patreon. You keep and you help keep the podcast ad-free. researching, writing, recording, and faster, and bring as much life and detail my subscribers for making this happen. If heading to or just Google P-A-T-R-E-O-N, to contribute something and running. For now, all the best, and thanks