(light music) - July 1981, the fairy tale as a 20 year old girl prince charming, at St. Paul's cathedral. 700 million people from commoner to royal princess and expected her to 12 years later, Diana Princess of Wales made a public announcement, that finally shattered the fairy tale. - When I started my public life 12 years ago, I understood the media might be interested in what I did. I realized then, their attention would inevitably focus on both But I was not aware of how overwhelming that attention would become it would affect both my public duties and my personal life in a manner that's been hard to bear. Obviously I attached great importance to my charity work and I intend to focus on a smaller range (light music) Over the next few months I will be seeking a more suitable way of combining a meaningful public role with hopefully a more private life. My first priority will William and Harry who deserve as much love and care and attention as well as an appreciation into which they were born. - [Narrator] 200 years before, Caroline of Brunswick had fallen out with her husband, later - There were all those who I mean, sin was on the and they did everything, they were in debt there was even a suggestion of incest amongst two children of George III, that is Queen Victoria's grandfather and they had illegitimate children by the dozen and one of the actually had ten he married the legal wife - [Narrator] Queen Victoria succeeded William and in 1840 she Their eldest son Edward a taste for sexual adventure in Ireland. Edward, who had it was had had a fall it was when as a very young so serving in the army had found the camp pro in his bed, placed their by his fellow officers and nature took its course, the parent learned of it and there was a hell of a to do about it. It was called Bertie's fall and he was never allowed to forget it. - [Narrator] His marriage Alexandra of Denmark was meant to keep him out of trouble, she - The fact about Alexandra Queen Victoria and also Albert, he was alive when the was that she was just utterly if the woman was beautiful but the marriage with he declared himself in love but that could've been just politic for him to do. It was definitely arranged to stop him from straying and pretty well as soon as he got her home and pregnant, which he did very quickly, he was off and he had so many mistresses in the end, right to the time he died that I think he lost count of them. - [Narrator] Daisy, the Edward's particular The actress Lily Langtree another. In those days a princess of Wales was expected just to put up with her husband's philandering, by today's standards Alexandra showed - She was friends with a lot of them. She was not a particularly bright woman but she was extremely and I think she loved She made friends with these mistresses and I mean on his deathbed she was the one who called his last to see him for the last time which was an act of great magnanimity. - [Narrator] By a peculiar quirk of fate, Alice Keppel's great granddaughter is Camilla Parker Bowles, History can repeat itself and Camilla is known to have played upon this fact. - There was the famous moment when they first met back in the 70s when Camilla, the great granddaughter of Alice Keppel, favorite mistress of his great great grandfather Edward VII said to, reminded Prince and said how about it then. And that was how their relationship began and that's one of the aspects of Camilla that rather appeals to who otherwise can't this man left Diana for this not so obviously attractive woman. - [Narrator] Diana was everyone's idea of what a princess should be but she was not prepared to hide the true state of her marriage, - Alexandra belonged to a put up and shut up over the affairs of their husbands and after all all Diana has had to put up with is one long standing affair, in fact he's been very faithful in his hasn't he, whereas Alexandra had to share her husband with a parade of women. - [Narrator] Charles from his great great grandfather. He likes painting and solitary pursuits. - Charles is a serious man, he's has intellectual interests that would never have occurred to Edward VII. I mean Edward VII was a man who hardly ever read a book, he was a great king in the social sense and he was politically very astute but he had no intellectual pretensions, in fact after his education which had been rammed down his throat and out of his ears, he ran away from that sort of thing. I would say Charles is his own man. - [Narrator] In contrast to Charles' German ancestry, Lady with her a pure English bloodline. The Spencers of Althorp have been wealthy landowners since the 16th century with a history of faithful royal service going back generations. Rich and powerful, they've always been one of England's great noble families. - I think the Spencer family, which of course is a much more British and much older and more traditionally British family than the Windsors, probably does carry in its genes the grit and determination that Diana has quite rightly shown in being the first princess of Wales in British history, not to tolerate her husband having affairs. - [Narrator] By standing Diana earned respect from those who once wrote her off as - Once she stamped her foot on behalf of women kind she became an icon praised by Camille around the world, it's why she's become quite rightly an icon for feminism whereas previously she was just some clothes peg famous because of who her husband was but let's not forget she's the daughter of a hereditary earl. When Diana is accused of wanting to destroy the monarchy, it's total nonsense. She believes in the hereditary principle, she wants her son to be king, she doesn't necessarily want her husband to be king but she wants her son to be king. - [Narrator] One prince of Wales who was born to be king but never became one was David, the never crowned Edward VIII. After his abdication, it was left to his brother Albert George V and Queen Mary were far from ideal parents and David's austere upbringing probably contributed - He never had a mother who really was really what he wanted. Queen Mary was somewhat cold, she didn't like children, she didn't like pregnancy, she didn't like what went before either, and she did it all out of duty and it reflected in her relationships with her children. - [Narrator] Her second was a sickly child, of his more confident brother. - His health never been good. When he was a child, he the future Edward VIII so they were in the nursery together and their nurse was actually psychotic. It's a measure of the lack of care Queen Mary took that to be in charge of the two princes, and she neglected him for the sake of his elder brother whom she preferred. She didn't feed him properly, she just didn't look after him properly and he had ulcers and developed a stammer. That was probably because he was bullied by his father, he had every nervous sort of manifestation - Queen Mary was a very forbidding figure, you just look at photographs of her, very shy, very reserved and quite unable to talk about what was in her heart. You cannot imagine a royal child climbing on her lap and giving her a great big hug, it just wasn't on. - [Narrator] Psychologists them as a dysfunctional family. - They were terrified of their parents. I mean they were emotionally, repressed. I mean they were frighten they were frightened of their fathers. And conversation was absolutely painful with the most terrible tension. There's no cheerful family banter, and I mean George V, if he was talking to his children, he would bark a series of challenging questions at them and these poor little children were so frightened, they would cry but they could never answer and then he would get into a terrible rage and then there was the other brother, known in the family as Well he was so frightened of King George V that one morning he was a minute late for breakfast but rather than face the wrath of his father, he fainted at his feet and so frightened was he and this was typical of all of them. - [Narrator] Despite David as Prince of Wales that made him immensely popular but his private life was already unorthodox. - The trouble with Edward VIII, when Prince of Wales, and Wales for a very long time, was that he had a penchant And he had two mistresses, and Thelma Lady Furness. And it was mostly to Freda Dudley Ward, who came first when he was about 18 that she sort of kept him to prize him away from her long enough for him to sort of even pay - [Narrator] David, on the left, had very different tastes in Bertie on the right. - There was some talk that he was gonna marry Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon and I mean they were horrified and both strove to deny it very very vigorously, particularly him. It isn't that she wasn't beautiful, she was utterly beautiful, not his type, nor was he hers. And actually the Duke of York, or rather Prince Albert, as he really was, was rather in the background because he was shy and awkward and you know he stammered and he didn't think he was good enough for her and there's no reason to think that she thought the same way but there were all these other glamorous Eventually, because he was so persistent, he got to here and she realized what a lovely person he was. - [Narrator] It is with that the king and queen announce the betrothal of their beloved son the Duke of York to the daughter of the Earl (applause) - He had a terrible temper, inherited it from his father, made worse by the fact that he had the stammer, by the fact that he was so shy, so nervous, so in a way unresolved, this made his temper very short, really kind of shouting temper. - [Narrator] When the pressures of being the Duke of York upset him, Elizabeth could always calm him. - If something went slightly wrong he would get absolutely furious, and she would just take his wrist and say, now Bertie, and just sort of as if taking his pulse would calm him and it Meanwhile the Prince of Wales had fallen deeply in love with the twice married Wallace Simpson. She fascinated him. - For one thing being American, she wasn't really in awe of the king as much as a British She spoke her mind, she woman of the world, she spoke to him as an equal, she wasn't people were, certainly were terrified of him, he didn't ever like young unmarried girls, all his mistresses were women with husbands, a confident woman, a bossy woman, a woman who knew her and the Duchess of Windsor, Wallace Simpson was a supreme bossy woman, all their life she simply bossed him, she was a woman who and very self confident and this I think is what appealed to - [Narrator] In 1936, David and ascended the throne briefly before abdicating in order to marry the now divorced Wallace Simpson. The wedding had to take place in France away from a shocked Britain. - They all hated it, they thought that she had stolen the king, she had made him lose his crown, they all thought she was a terrible adventuress, they all thought she was simply after the position was that once she had got him, once she had married that she would ditch him as she ditched two other husbands, they assumed she was simply an adventuress and once she can get it that she would tear off and that in fact didn't happen but that is why they a good time girl is what - [Narrator] David's blow to his stammering uncertain brother. Next in line of succession, Bertie had no choice but to be He'd had no training and was totally unprepared for the role. - He was very nervous, very diffident, very insecure kind of man with no public presence whatsoever and suddenly overnight, literally overnight he had to become the king of was very very shaken by this, he burst into tears, he sat on the sofa with Queen Mary in floods of tears because he simply only he simply had to do it, - [Narrator] Somehow he had to make the best of it and restore Britain's faith in its monarchy. He made a very shaky start and to begin with things looked bleak. - Certainly, the early days really until the war broke out which in a way consolidated his position because he was admired greatly in the queen for staying in England and for everything they did but yet he was very worried because his brother had this wonderful kind of crowd pleasing ability. He could infuse the very good with people, all the things which the new king, King George VI simply had no talent for, had no talent for that kind of public life whatsoever so really he did mind the fact that his very popular brother had gone, leaving this rather diffident, this rather colorless man in his place, he felt that very much. - [Narrator] David and Wallace, now the Duke and Duchess of Windsor were never welcomed back to Britain. They lived in exile in Paris. - One reason he didn't of tax, he went to live in France because there was an arrangement there whereby he didn't pay tax, he did think he might live in the states at one stage but he'd have to pay tax there so he wouldn't live there but no, the main reason he didn't come back to this country is because George VI wasn't wanted here, they didn't want him to come back and rival to the king and queen so they never really ever wanted him they were quiet happy if they lived anywhere except in Britain. - [Narrator] They also refused to grant Wallace the title, her royal highness. - He thought that she was he thought that this is If he couldn't make her queen, he was determined at one state that she would be queen and she was determined to be queen, the least he could do for her was to make her a royal highness and this is what he spent really his whole life battling for, this is the one supreme more important than anything was to make her a royal highness, a battle of course which he never won. - [Narrator] Following the end of the war, King George Vi and with their two daughters, for an official visit This was their first time away from the pressures of war time Britain. And the world was able to see just how relaxed and united they were as a family. (uplifting music) - Queen Mother as she is today had come herself from a very warm, loving family from the Bowes-Lyon family and so she created a very happy, atmosphere for her children, Princess Elizabeth, Princess Margaret, she also knew that her beloved Bertie had had such an unhappy childhood, she was determined to create the right kind of atmosphere and even when he became king after the abdication and they moved to the palace, she tried very hard there to create a good, warm, atmosphere and would run down to the palace kitchens and make scones for Princess Margaret, and Princess Elizabeth. - [Narrator] But Elizabeth had had to grow up in the knowledge that she would eventually succeed her father has monarch, at 21 she made the most important statement of her life. - It was in South Africa in 1947, the only tour she made with her father and mother and her sister, that she dedicated her entire to serving the commonwealth the United Kingdom. - I declare before you whether it be long or to your service and to the service of our great imperial family God help me to make good my vow, and God bless all of you - [Narrator] On her it was with delight that the country learned of her engagement As heiress presumptive to the throne her choice of husband was obviously a matter of intimate concern to every one of her father's subjects. With quick perception, the public realized that she had made a worthy choice. (light music) - She met him when she was 13 years old. He was a young man of, let's see, he must've been about like all the Mountbattens They became quite friendly and he in an elder brotherly way used to write to her. Now it's not every sort of 18 19 year old young man in the navy who so there was obviously a They definitely chose each other, that was definitely a love match. - [Narrator] Elizabeth in November 1947 after it was an event that lifted the nation and huge crowds wished At the glittering wedding ceremony in Westminster Abbey, for this fortuitous love match between the house of Windsor and As a royal prince, there that Philip would make But few guessed how soon his new wife would have to take on The pressures of having to lead Britain during the long war years had taken their toll on her father, by 1952 he was too ill to travel and Elizabeth had to leave for an She said farewell to Within a few days, he was and the nation mourned. - I mean the last four kings of England were killed by this monarchy, and he was one of them but he was a likely candidate for an early death. Then there was the shock of the abdication which he greeted in floods of tears because he'd never been prepared for it, never expected it and wasn't suited to it. And then came the war which and if you took a in 1939 even in his he was handsome, he was upstanding, he had all his hair and all that and at the end at 49 he was drawn, he was tired, he was obviously It ruined him, I think actually the second world war did for him far - [Narrator] His daughter in June, 1953, the first Millions of people all over the world witnessed the start of what was hailed as the new Elizabethan age. There was a feeling of At only 27 it was a huge responsibility for the new queen to take on but in Philip she had a - I don't think she apart from the fact that he had very fine royal lineage in his own right he was exactly the sort of character that she needed behind her as queen. Strong, he was manly, he was strict when he needed to be, I think it was a very very suitable match and it came about through their - In public terms I think Prince Philip's been an excellent consort to the queen, you could almost compare him with Dennis Thatcher and Margaret. It's very difficult for a forthright man of strong views to surrender his identity to his wife, to walk one pace behind her and so on, he's had constant difficulties with that but he may have made the odd, inappropriate remark but beyond that he's done extremely well. - [Narrator] But royal life can be boring for those on the sidelines and without a job of his own, Philip's attention has strayed and he sought - I think what is extraordinary is the way that all the rumors about his private life that one hears if one have never become public. Kitty Kelley is famously writing a book about him at the moment but one of the questions I'm constantly asked is how's Philip got away from it, with it all these years. And until a few years ago to attack Philip would've been to attack the queen so he was au de cumbre, I think that may be coming to an end now and I suspect the next few years may hold some difficulties for Philip in which he might choose, quite rightly to reach for his lawyers. - [Narrator] In the reign it was her sister Margaret who was getting all the press attention. She was the royal everyone wanted to see. - In the way she was a kind of star. She really in her day had the sort of star quality which Diana has now. She used to dress very well, she looked lovely in her day, Princess Margaret, and she was that kind of princess who could really bring something out in the crowds in the way that Diana can, it's a kind of quality, a kind of personal magnetism which some of them have got that some of them acquire, and in a way yes Princess was the Diana of her day and was very much the star of the royal family in the 1950s especially. - [Narrator] Always a great supporter of the arts perhaps in a different life Margaret might have As a royal princess she from famous film stars, and by how she naturally took center stage. - Princess Margaret's problem in the 50s was that she was so stunningly beautiful, she was regarded as the royal family's equivalent of Elizabeth Taylor and she was so beautiful, she was a fairy tale princess in every sense of the world in those wonderful - [Narrator] But her glamorous public appearances hid a private tragedy. In her early 20s she'd fallen deeply in love with her father's Captain Peter Townsend. - She lost the man she because she was afterwards unable to make a relationship with anybody else. It's difficult to know actually who would've satisfied Princess Margaret, someone much stronger than herself and that would've been because she's a very strong, outward going character, very talented. - People expected her to live happily ever after, a fantasy life but that's not the way She was seen with what was regarded as unsuitable men, caused a lot of discussion people thought she should be stripped of all her privileges Everybody's forgotten about that now and I think that it's because she sacrificed a great deal to stay in the royal and it's about time we - [Narrator] In 1960 the well connected society photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones. But it was a marriage - I think she's probably not an easy woman to live with, she was used to, she's a princess, a king's used to getting her own way. Armstrong-Jones wasn't I don't think, he wanted his own career, quite rightly, Margaret One hears there were various extra marital interests, so in a way it was a very difficult situation, I think it was inevitable that it should break up really. - [Narrator] 35 years remarried, she's a woman alone. The year these pictures were taken, her first love Peter Back in the 50s his divorce status was an insurmountable barrier to his marrying a queen's sister. Today the love match would Tragically, Margaret was (dramatic music) Unable to find someone she cast a lonely shadow - She never really seems at ease in her position in the world, I think she's never to how a princess fits into modern life. - It seems to have been impossible for Margaret ever to find happiness again because any man who takes on marrying a royal princess is taking on a hell of a lot, he's giving up, he's saying goodbye to his private life, he's really as much a and so it could be that we Diana living in exactly the same position that Princess Margaret seemed today. (applause) - [Narrator] Another Princess destined to have a royal marriage was Queen Elizabeth's only daughter, Anne. Her wedding in 1973 was a world class horsewoman and had chosen a fellow enthusiast, Captain Mark Philips. With a great deal in common their future together looked full of hope. - They fell in love and they were both interested in horses which is a great interest, they're both extremely good at just don't think he was up to it. It's not easy for a man to be married to a woman whose family than his own, whose income whose profile is enormously This is the problem for current royals, because of the demise of so many other royal families, or the that some of them have suffered, it's very difficult for them to find anyone suitable to marry but who's got comparable status to theirs. - She is rather full of herself, she is very like her And she has not endeared She's done some very good of that but that's her job basically. She gets paid for it car to drive around and of clothes, she lives in a fabulous house and although she's got a she never goes there. She lives the life of Riley to do the things that she does. - [Narrator] While press brother Charles' marital problems, Anne divorced and swiftly Commander Tim Lawrence, a royal equerry. The wedding ceremony at Crathie Church on the Members of the royal were on hand to give this Again, Anne had got her own way with very little press criticism. - The divorce of Princess from Mark Philips, barely caused a ripple in the royal scene and one little bit, she just carried on as if nothing had happened. The palace went out of its way to say when there was a separation, for divorce, which we because they were, Mark and Anne both knew when they got separated that they were going to be and when they were said there was no third party involved and we all knew that at that time she had a friendship with Tim Lawrence because letters written by him to her and her to him had been stolen by somebody presumably in the palace - [Narrator] Tim Lawrence is and on the face of it has very little in common with his wife. - Tim Lawrence is quite extraordinary in that he comes from a background which couldn't be further removed from Princess Anne's I mean if he tried he comes from a working class background. Strangely enough, since he's been in the royal family he's become even more royal than the royals from any of them. He looks like them, he dresses like them, and he even talks like unkindly said to me a few days ago back in palace, you're just taking on this air of assumed of aristocracy. - [Narrator] Anne is the first member of the royal family to ever to divorce and remarry. As Tim Lawrence appears to be fitting seamlessly into his new the signs are good she'll be Queen Elizabeth's second son, Andrew married another commoner, This wedding day had new to royal occasions. Guests and family seemed unusually lively to match the character of the new bride and the overall mood was despite the inevitable pomp and ceremony. Even the queen entered obviously happy that her favorite son had finally met his match in the spirited red head the press had nicknamed Fergie. This was one girl who could keep her playboy son in check. The reigning monarch never looked happier. Diana too appeared to be enjoying the acceptance of someone her own age into the royal family, here finally was an ally to help loosen up the stuffy traditions of the Windsors. But would Sarah last the course and were she and Andrew really suited. With hindsight they were - I think a very ill matched pair. I mean there are some people that you should simply not marry each other. She was a hot potato, that one. I think Andrew wanted somebody more like Duchess of Gloucester. Quiet, not a great not a sort of tornado like Sarah Ferguson, I didn't think he knew what Because she had a broken romance herself was probably at a low ebb and perhaps looked a bit more vulnerable than she later turned out to be. - [Narrator] But Andrew is spoiled and naturally he can be unpredictable - He's been described as and other people say that I know people who have worked with him and for him and they said he can be a bit like his father, give for no apparent reason and the next moment he can be so thoughtful, so completely and absolutely thoughtful. He's not, I understand, he's not one of the deep but the very fact that he's qualified as a helicopter pilot and he's now commanding his own leads one to believe that he does possess a rare amount of intelligence. - [Narrator] From the much of her husband and - I believe that if to a Navy college just leaving Fergie alone and rather depressed at Buckingham palace in the early days of their marriage, they may but the combination of living in that great mausoleum that we there's constant spotlight, the endless criticism but also from the media, to such an extent that when she wanted the man in her life to be by her side he was either away at - [Narrator] Sarah turned to other men for company and support. This was soon picked up by the press and made banner headlines. - I think she has always needed a presence of a powerful male figure in her life for a long time that was her father and it has been replaced who tended to be older and manipulative. - [Narrator] The final of Sarah with her financial exposed the real intimate It made worldwide front page news as although Buckingham that Andrew and Sarah were to separate six months before, no plans for divorce had been mentioned and they were still officially married. Her blatant disregard shook the very foundations of respect that supports the monarchy. Sarah was at Bowmoral the nation's breakfast tables. It was left to Johnny, based in London to face the press. - What is your comment, Mr. Brian? - I'm sorry I have no in addition to the comments and statements I made last night. - [Narrator] At this point he was keeping his story to himself but would fetch a high price if he ever decided to do a kiss and tell expose. A dangerously loose cannon bankrupt in Germany, he hole in the royal of privacy and discretion. - The difficulty with John Brian is that he is American, our royal family or the royal family and sooner or later if the relationship fails, we can see him in America selling his story. And it's not just the story about him and the Duchess of York, he knows about the relationship between and the Princess of Wales, he knows about Prince and if he decided to tell his story, that is the most extraordinary time bomb. Fergie and John Brian have entered into some kind of devil's contract which neither of them can get out of. But if it continues in the way that it has been going on, could ultimately bring down the house of Windsor because sooner or later, Fergie herself from John Brian, do not bear close scrutiny and he has created enemies wherever he's gone, he's a bully, he's an uncomfortable figure to be around but basically he knows where the bodies are buried. - [Narrator] Despite his wife's behavior, the Duke of York didn't want a divorce. For four years he - Prince Andrew did not want to let his wife go and he tried And they maintained a because they are good friends as well as for the sake of their children. Now this was not the case with the Wales' who were definitely, there and there was a lot of from their deeply entrenched positions. - [Narrator] The exposure breakdown in the Wales' marriage came as no great surprise importance required the prime minister, John Major, to address Parliament. - It is announced from Buckingham Palace that with regret the Prince have decided to separate. Their royal highness's have no plans to divorce and their constitutional positions are unaffected. This decision has been reached amicably and they will both to fully in the upbringing of their children. - [Narrator] The carefully built image of monarchy as an example of family values and stability has been severely dented. - There is not one significant marriage which has survived the royal family. Princess Margaret's Princess Anne's ended in divorce, Duke and Duchess of York, so there's something and the way that they behave towards outsiders which is very questionable. At the same time it's very difficult for an outsider to cope with life in the goldfish bowl of Buckingham Palace. - [Narrator] Diana may have but she was never able by the press, they were always on the hunt for any sign that she'd found another man. It was a constant pressure. - Go on, get lost. Go on, get lost. Please. - One of the main problems for the younger generation of royals now, moving towards middle age is that they're life the way they want to in the age of the mass media, the coming through windows and so on. If you look back to previous generations, Edward VII who is now a string mistresses, Mrs. And a wife who looked the other way, there may have been about the king's or the Prince of Wales' behavior but it wasn't in Edward VIII who became Duke of Windsor and was briefly Edward VIII after being Prince of Wales talks in his memoirs, he's the only King of England ever to have written his memoirs about artists with sketchpads jumping out from behind trees as he's walking through the park and complains about this, what he would say about the paparazzi. I suppose that was the 30s equivalent. I've no idea, but that that the monarchy has molded itself into the first family of the land, a paragon of Christian virtue, a paragon of family life and well that has self evidently over the last five of the queen's children's the fourth as yet has not got married. Then the monarchy is robbed If family marriage 1992 saw the Windsor's ancestral It seemed a fitting symbol apparently self and marriage breakdowns. Was this a sign that an ancient dynasty was coming to an end? The queen broke a habit of a lifetime by openly sharing her - 1992 is not a year on with undiluted pleasure. In the words of one of my more it has turned out to - [Narrator] But within seemed to be projecting For the 50th anniversary of VE Day the focus was on family continuity with the queen in forthright red. - She's devoted her entire life to repairing the damage done by the abdication in 1936 and her father tried to do the same but because his reign was so short it was left to his daughter to and she's successfully done that. Everything was going - [Narrator] This balcony that strong women are still at - Queen Mother, and the represented the war time generation. But I think there's something more in it. I think they didn't want to clutter up that balcony with all the who've been rather less I think it wanted back to the time during the war and even after when the royal family when they were greatly and this in a way was a little image, a little public image of the royal family in happier days, they want to leave the public with this impression, I think. - [Narrator] A new royal wedding, this time between Princess Margaret's son, Viscount Linley and Serena Stanhope. As the royal family gathered at Westminster Abbey there was hope yet again that this time the marriage of a royal (church bells) Even as an estranged, divorced wife Diana wasn't banished Diana's life was like a melodrama, she was the girl who except the one thing that someone to share it with. Diana's brief romance with Dodi Fayed was cut short with her tragic death in the summer of 1997. Prior to that relationship there were many men who were willing to take her under their arm, but Diana was always aware that any man she could eventually become step Diana's divorce settlement had to reflect the nation's love and esteem for her. Prince Charles' lawyers pleaded poverty and let it be known that in the region of four million pounds In the event, a settlement was agreed, yielding an annual income of about 100 thousand pounds. Not a huge sum bearing in Following her divorce her royal highness, Diana withdrew from mainstream public duties and resigned as patron of Her interest in loving care Right up until her death Diana remained in touch with her good causes and continued as patron of including the Royal Marsden hospitals, the leprosy mission, and the National AIDS Trust. Although partially in her financial settlement to be finalized, the public's adoration made up for much of the in her personal life. During her marriage, romance, and affection to such a degree that many of her friends felt that after her separation she would fall for the first hussar On royal occasions she handled her unique situation as the ex wife of the air to the throne with dignity. The royal family, particularly the queen was pleased with the way she There were one or two mistakes which were not always Diana's fault but she always behaved with great maturity and handled the shared custody of her two children well, especially when the queen wished them to be seen with the royal family. Above all for Diana, the was paramount in all she did. Her search for a suitable partner filled thousands of column and magazines around the world. Mr. Wonderful had to fit the dream of most women, he had to be Mr. Right, Sir Right, and Lord and the financial support to which she and her adoring Always ready with a smile, Diana continued with her most treasured charity work for the underprivileged, those less fortunate, the have nots. Their warmth and at even the bleakest moments. (light music) - Your kindness and affection has carried me through some of the and always your love and and for that I thank you (peaceful music)