Welcome to another Mathologer video. Euler's identity e to the I pi is equal Euler's identity. The mathematician Roger when Euler was only seven years old. I associate the math super hero Euler with than with one of the zillion's of his course it's really sad for Roger Cotes anything and nobody's ever heard of him. the real Euler identity, the identity that It's this one here. Very curious, right? It to the infinite sum of the reciprocals surprising answer to the problem of whether the infinite sum on the right adds up to anything nice. A lot of the most famous and failed to answer this problem and so Euler managed to find the answer. And of no circle in sight anywhere added really to result is not only pretty but also turns definition of the famous Riemann zeta heart of the Riemann hypothesis, one of mathematics. So what Euler managed to do was to find the precise value of the Riemann zeta so for all even numbers. Now it turns out number pi. For example, this up there is Zeta evaluated at 4 and this is Zeta evaluated at 6. To this day nobody knows whether zeta evaluates to anything nice at the odd was also interested in assigning that you get when you try to evaluate 1+2+3+... you know that one, right? In first mathematician to really sums than meets the eye at first glance. really mind-boggling topic. Anyway my Euler's proof of his wonderful start with it's not clear at all that finite value and if it does add to a nice. If you've already looked a bit across a beautiful closely related in this respect so let's warm up with rewrite Euler's sum like this. as 1/2 times 1/2. Make a copy and let's results is this other infinite sum which two sums term by term. Okay, in the green the green factors are the same and the bottom blue bigger, green the same bottom blue bigger and so on overall it's clear that the bottom sum is bigger than ingenious argument that evaluates the sum infinite sum at the fourth term there ready for a bit of mathematical magic. Here 1 times 1/2 is equal to 1 minus 1/2, neat right? so on, now we get rid of the brackets and telescope of the pirate variety :) Let me of the telescope and here's another one. - 1/2 plus 1/2 is 0, - 1/3 plus evaluates to 2 minus 1/4. this term over there. If instead we would longer telescope would have given us the down the sum we cut, the smaller the and so our telescoping sum adds up to 2, really add to nice values and so Euler might be the case for the closly related since the sum is greater than the Euler finite number which is less than 2. And, approximately 1.644 which is less Ok warmup is over. Now how did Euler starts with the so called Maclaurin who've done some calculus are familiar infinite polynomial. Definitely Euler and well. Now to present a complete picture his proof comes from, it's important to formula and I'll explain it in a moment identity. Obviously, the sine function is therefore not come as a surprise that pi different ways. For example, setting X this funky expression for pi here which right? Question for you: How could you use better approximations for pi? If you've right, let's say you suspect sine of x polynomial like this. How do you go about easy. Just set x equal to 0 and sine is over there and this means that a has to derivatives on both sides of the derivative is just go with the flow. Here derivative of a is 0, the derivative of b x is b, the derivative of c x squared is 2 c x, the derivative of d x cubed is 3 d x again. This gives on the left side so b is equal to 1. Now just rinse and to 0 and conclude that c is equal to 0. and that gives you all the coefficients. polynomial that's what it's going to be. for sine comes from. This identity really does of course requires a Let me just demonstrate how well this sums of this infinite sum are better and we go. Let's plot sine of x, there we go and first partial sum that's just a line, second partial sum is this can see these guys wrap closer and coincide. Anyway, as you've seen, the term-by-term based on higher and higher wonderful and actually gives similar functions, like the exponential function this method of pinning down this what most of us would try first for a linear function like this we graph. Or for a quadratic function from of natural to see whether we can also there by taking a similar approach. And does is he constructs the infinite special points here which, of course, let's first focus on the middle three cubic curve and we can straight away those three zeros. Here it is. Pretty obvious it. Well it does have those three zeros course this is just one of the has these zeros. We get the other ones by So let's just do that. Okay down, down very close fit when the slopes of sine And it's not hard to see that this squared. Well let's just run with it. Let's constants into the brackets. Two 1s there combine the last two factors as you attention. Okay looks neat and now it's like sine of x has slope 1 at 0. Next the middle 5 zeros. The polynomial we get this. In terms of the algebra you get you get another factor that features 2pi instead of a pi and which takes care of the outer zeros 2pi and -2pi. zeros at a time. You can see a closer and coincidence again. And so Euler now has equal to sine x, right? Now since the by expanding the infinite product we Let's just have a look at how this pans sum. So that's what it is and here the the first couple of factors of the pretty good coincidence in the the more factors you use. So this really whole infinite product? Well, just start highlight the first two factors and Take the result and the next factor, also highlight the x cubed term important in a second, and focus on how it Multiply and you get this one here, and green. It's pretty clear what's going to once you've finished expanding. The x remember this x cubed term of the equal to the x cubed term of the here which simplifies. First multiply by minus 1 then times pi squared and there you have it, Euler's real identity, pretty ingenious identities that I mentioned earlier, you also get by comparing coefficients product. For example, you get the identity of x to the power of 5 in the Maclaurin product. Maybe give this a shot yourself. managed to do this on your own. If you calculation in a separate video on there's a lot more I could say about stress that what I've shown you is not of work to make this argument completely I showed you is pretty much all that with his result. In fact, believe it Mathematica and so all the numerical produce by hand and he actually had a showed you. Now it still took Euler a identity to come up with a completely mention two more amazing facts about have another look at Euler's way of product up there. If we set x equal to pi write the factors on the right divided by 2 gives the so called Wallis John Walli, a really beautiful and squares of all the even numbers in the numbers in the denominator, really really of you will be familiar with the Leibniz identity up there. I didn't know about actually points out in one of his papers exactly the same way as Euler's sum, the the function 1 - sine x as a product much all you need and then comparing the with that of the expanded infinite one of you may also be able to supply way, although this amazing identity is Maclaurin series of all the main known to Indian mathematicians at least were born and it may very well be due to the mathematician Madhava of Sanggammagrammar. And hardly anybody knows about knows about this or cares. How very sad. And this is it for today. As usual let me know how well this video work for you and see you next time.