- Thank you very much for coming. My name is Clifford Ando. I'm the chair of the Classics Department, which organizes the on behalf of the Division of Humanities. I trust you're all excited. I certainly am. I actually have heard on two prior occasions, and they were probably and brilliant performances I'm excited. I was asked to prepare to assist with the very important for the live stream, which just means I have to put on glasses. So, you all retreat into opacity now. And that the need to read will cap my exuberance, My tasks today are to to thank the people who made this possible and introduce my colleague Sarah Nooter, who will introduce today's lecturer. In March, 1987, Robert Danziger, who obtained his MD at the endowed a fund in honor of his father, Sigmund H. Danziger Jr., a and a lifelong reader of the classics. To this was added a challenge grant from the National Endowment with the object of bringing &quot;an established scholar &quot;who has made substantial contributions &quot;to the critical analysis &quot;or has been exceptionally &quot;and appreciation for Over the years, the led to a widening interpretation of the term classical literature, so that the series now alternates between scholars working within including in recent years, Mary Beard, Andrew Ford, and Julia Annas, and scholars in other fields whose work has enriched our understanding of the classical world Elaine Pagels, Steven are recent speakers in this vein. The series has rapidly become in the life of the Division of Humanities. And I want to express my gratitude to Bob and Maggie Danziger So, thank you very much. I'd also like to offer my thanks in the Classics Department, Kevin Robbins in the Humanities Division, Veronica Cuevas at the Rubinstein Center, and Ben Kolak of &quot;Truth and Documentary&quot; for their indispensable and to this occasion. Let me add as a final word after the lecture on the landing to which you are all warmly invited. And now to introduce today's lecturer, I turn things over to Sarah Nooter, a professor in the Classics Department. (audience clapping) - Hello, and welcome. My name, as your heard, is Sarah Nooter. And as you heard, I'm a I'm so pleased to be introducing the Sigmund Indeed, very glad just with you fine people it's an honor, a humbling honor, to introduce Judith Butler to you today. Judith Butler is the in the Department of and the Program of Critical Theory at the University of California, Berkeley. She is the recipient of across the globe. She has founded programs, chaired departments, She has worked as an in addition to her academic work. She is a rockstar, as we all know. She's pioneered the and performativity through &quot;Bodies that Matter&quot; and &quot;Undoing Gender,&quot; now absolute classics. She has written brilliantly and continental philosophy, and authored field defining work on pressing political &quot;Precarious Lives: the Powers To this, she joins work on, for example, Judaism, as opposed to Zionism, and on non-violence. Work that induces us to of our interdependencies with one another, to live more ethically and to imagine our futures more hopefully even in the face of grim realities. She has thus become a kind of ambassador for the humanities to the world, an ambassador whom we badly need. Representing humanistic in &quot;The New York Times&quot;, &quot;The Guardian&quot;, &quot;The New Yorker,&quot; and on and on. She is so important to that there are multiple books that have her name in the title, a strange honor that few of us will attain for better or worse. And so vast is the field of her influence that I have decided to spend my few remaining on only a very specific matter, but one that is relevant to Professor Butler's and that is her contributions This despite the fact that she It is perhaps because of her from the field of Classics into its objects of study. And in particular, into its tragedies. The book that led me to Professor Butler's and to tragedy as a is &quot;Antigone's Claim: Kinship published in 2000. I read this text with as a Master's student at Cambridge, and I've taught it here to my students with pleasure and gratitude. I will try briefly to explain both of these effective stances by way of showing you a glimpse I hope in this way to through which light may be shed on Professor Butler's Professor Butler starts &quot;I began to think about &quot;as I wondered what would &quot;to confront and defy the state. &quot;But who is this Antigone?&quot; She soon asks herself. She decides that Antigone cannot &quot;a representative for a certain &quot;For Antigone's own &quot;is itself in crisis.&quot; Moving nimbly through as well as social and she offers generous readings but also Hegel, Lacan, Ultimately, Professor Butler &quot;exposes the precarious character &quot;of the norms of kinship and gender,&quot; themes that Professor to in her work. The book is filled with excellent and empathetic critical &quot;Antigone refuses to allow &quot;to become assimilated to a symbolic order &quot;that requires the &quot;By remaining on the side &quot;the unwritten law, &quot;she refuses to submit her love &quot;to the chain of signification, &quot;that life of substitutability So, this is an illustration of how love itself can be a refusal of reductive kinds of symbolism for accounting or replaceability. And here we see Professor Butler eking out the deeply humanist potentials but, of course, she goes still further, ending the book with the but with a difference. &quot;Who then is Antigone, &quot;What are we to make of her words, &quot;words that become dramatic &quot;She acts, she speaks, &quot;she becomes one for whom the &quot;but this fatality exceeds her life &quot;and enters a discourse of intelligibility &quot;as its own promising fatality, &quot;the social form of its Professor Butler's is as forward and future into a characterization Thus, when she asks in this &quot;Which human losses can &quot;as real and consequential loss?&quot; We may recognize the context in 2000 that made this question The legal and social strictures on mourning loved ones lost to AIDS. And we will see also its pertinence now in our present ongoing pandemic and in the midst of ever and constant necessary redefinitions of the boundaries of life. Professor Butler, in other words, teases out the infinite in the ancient. As she wrote in her review of &quot;What happened then keeps happening. &quot;These repetitions mark &quot;of unconscious rage, explicit sorrow, &quot;unpredictable and winning humor, &quot;and new aesthetic forms that &quot;between then and now.&quot; In still another essay on tragedy, Professor Butler urges us to, &quot;Come to new vocabularies &quot;through which to grasp &quot;and basic passions.&quot; I suspect that Professor in this pursuit, yet again, today. Please join me in warmly welcoming her. (audience clapping) - Thank you so much. I'm enormously honored by this invitation. I confess to having felt but also a little bit unclear whether we could all So, this is my first talk not on Zoom since the beginning of the pandemic, and maybe for you, this is one of your first So, suddenly, the idea of and being able to converse and having that bodily and maybe still a bit frightening, And if you do have discomfort, you should take care of yourself and find some space, whatever you need. It's always awkward for untrained in the classics even though they do precisely that with apparent enthusiasm and regularity. We usually start by asking to and then we tend to barge ahead On the one hand, it's a good thing that the classics do not that they have wide appeal and the social sciences. On the other hand, there's always a sense that the engagement stands either because we do not know the classical languages well enough, or because we do not know and go about reinventing the wheel. So, here I stand as it were between this not knowing whether to flagellate myself for my lack of expertise as I trespass on hallowed terrain. You have made things since you asked for a non to appear before you My predicament is obvious, I suppose. Psychoanalytically, we might say that the oscillation between mirrors the swing between and unbridled mania. The way around that polarity a sense of irony, humility, and a willingness not but a sense that one will I plan to find my way today through the final section to a broader discussion of legal violence, depending mainly on the I do that not only because in which anti-carceral politics has become increasingly important, but also because it seems Greek tragedy in particular is approached with the expectation that the great ideals will become manifest in these texts as long as we know how best to read them. We all now know these debates, I presume. My sense is that &quot;The Eumenides&quot; gives namely a way to reconsider between law and violence, and specifically, the as the alternative to I joined a number of critics who have waded through So, I don't pretend to be but I do think the play offers into how law rather than often absorbs violence That view implies rethinking that leads from vengeance One that correlates with a of the Erinyes, the the Kindly Ones. I conduct this review and reading in order to glean some insights about legal processes like trials and legal institutions like prisons. Our public debates have of due process and the that trials concerned with police violence tend to favor the version of especially when the It matters that some social about whether justice can and whether it ought to be, sometimes seeking recourse to conduct its tribunals And other times, in a contrary motion, seeking to set up that not only refuse to but call for its abolition. My point is not to that it is only an always but to point out as many have, that there are good grounds and that those who point out its operation are often acting in the name of justice. A sense of justice that cannot be captured by contemporary law, especially when law conducts For those who argue that then justice is defined which includes the violence Such views have been persuasively Gina Dent, Beth Richie, and Ruth Anne Gilmore in recent years. Although their approaches differ, and you will be able to in which two very different books on prison abolition emerge. &quot;Abolition, Feminism, Now,&quot; and then another book both of which will be at the beginning of 2022. Although the approaches they are all black feminists who believe that prison And through the negation embodied by prisons, calls upon us to imagine a form of justice beyond institutionalized cruelty. So, one reason I wanted of Aeschylus' Eumenides is because I did not trust when I was first taught Even though I was surely excited by the story of that transition As you know, the that Athena establishes to determine whether for killing his mother, Clytemnestra, tend to be read as a transition from cycles of revenge that puts an end to such cycles. I was also taught that Athena brings about a rule of law. One that puts an end to violence. And for some time, I stood The Furies were cast in a bad light, nearly defined as bad light, for they were the ones the killing of Clytemnestra, and they came to stand for as well as mad feminine passions that needed to be constrained I remember reading H.D.F. who was very clear that by the of the Oresteian trilogy, that is Kitto was clear, we have left behind waged by one clan against another and arrived at trial by jury, a sign of a deliberate The negative becomes positive, And all of this becomes The war between a patriarchal power represented by Zeus and and the mad feminine Furies, was supposed to be overcome at the end, and the two gendered forces as now working together. Several years later, I read Froma Zeitlin's and saw both the hilarity and horror of the play's gender politics. What scholars had to labor to show was in some sense there all along, but unreadable given the great investment in the transition at hand. You will remember that one is that matricide is not as since only the father is the parent. Indeed, it is not clear that since technically, there is no mother. Indeed, there are no mothers. What we call the mother is or so Apollo makes clear to the Furies. The parent, he explains, is he who mounts. Who knew that parenting by sexual position and posture? And that mounting is an beautiful, it's just beautiful. It was then with some interest that I discovered Simon of &quot;The Eumenides,&quot; in his in which he argues that polarity between masculine is nowhere near as stable And that the play does not end with an unequivocal resolution of an ongoing gender conflict, but rather a continuing set of tensions, open-ended and disturbing, even undermining the gender On a first reading, it seems are replaced by a rule of law, where the law is understood to bind them to legal resolution rather than violent exchange. But given how quickly the Furies give way, is it plausible to think that all hatred and revenge The Furies are placated, overtly seduced by reputational repair. Athena's persuasive powers are amplified by a set of promises she makes, a life free of grief even a provisional definition of euphoria, a set of powers on which a way to be held in honor by the community without ever forfeiting and sustaining power. The point is not only that the Furies acquiesce to the law as such, but rather to the trial modeled awkwardly by the one that Athena and where you will remember each side basically gets without recourse to evidence The Furies acquiesce, and as they do, they agree to live under where trials establish and a judge, in this case, Athena, metes out punishment to the guilty or exonerates the unfairly accused. Is it that they, the Furies, have given up their passion for a more dispassionate Or is it rather that their as it comes under the sway of the law. And once they are tasked with making sure that the on the community. In 1987, Paul Gewirtz, argued that although &quot;consent to participate in the trial, &quot;the very establishment of the court &quot;seems to displace their His rather remarkable essay continues. And I quote, &quot;After the Furies lose &quot;they announced that &quot;they will let loose on &quot;Athena, however, pleads with them &quot;to take an honor place &quot;along with new powers and they give way. &quot;Their hate to vanish &quot;and they take their Gewirtz points out that the Furies are, he calls them, &quot;complex forces of passion &quot;linked at various points &quot;fear, anger, violence, &quot;the sense of hurt, memories of grief, &quot;the primitive, the emotional, End of quote. I would add grievance. And though Gewirtz notes that to relinquish their poisonous I find myself surprised by or decide to give up It's difficult to understand why they would give it all up so quickly, given its intensity and the vow to pursue vengeance eternally. Was the politics of that they could simply give Did they fall for the offer Or were they simply given a different job that let them keep their wrath in the service of the community, Gewirtz suggests that they those driving passions because they saw that the law to bind the community together. Citing also the Lattimore &quot;What the fear is most clearly represent, &quot;call it fear, conscience, vengeance, &quot;is not a threat to the law &quot;Rather, fury is law's partner. &quot;It reinforces a respect for legal rights. &quot;It promotes reverence for the just, &quot;which in turn is a source End of quote. It is of course one thing to claim that fury comes to be law's partner, but quite another to and transmutes fury, understood This last position allies with Walter Benjamin's view that law cannot stand as Since for the most part, it a system of police and courts and to take life away. &quot;The death penalty is &quot;of legal violence,&quot; argued Robert Cover, Gewirtz's colleague at Yale at the time, in his influential essay, Gewirtz insisted on legal at about the same time that on legal violence. Gewirtz marks at one point that &quot;that law is a story,&quot; through his narrative Cover, in fact, started to highlight the narrative dimensions of &quot;Nomos and Narrative,&quot; and &quot;Justice Accused: &quot;Anti-Slavery and the Judicial Process.&quot; We should not be surprised that there is resonance on legal violence since Cover's engagement with Jewish theological including Gershom Scholem and Walter Benjamin on issues such as violence In the 1986 essay cited here, Cover makes the following remark about how pervasive And I quote, &quot;Revolutionary &quot;are commonly staked in blood. &quot;In them, the violence of the law &quot;takes its most blatant form. &quot;But the relationship &quot;and the infliction of &quot;even in the most routine of legal acts. &quot;The act of sentencing &quot;is among those most routine &quot;yet it is immensely revealing &quot;of the way in which interpretation &quot;by violence.&quot; Sorry. &quot;First examine the event &quot;from the perspective of the defendant. &quot;The defendant's world is threatened, &quot;but he sits usually quietly &quot;as if engaged in a civil discourse. &quot;If convicted, the &quot;escorted to prolonged confinement, &quot;usually without significant disturbance &quot;to the civil appearance of the event. &quot;It is, of course, grotesque to assume &quot;that the civil facade is voluntary, &quot;except in the sense that it represents &quot;the defendant's autonomous recognition &quot;of the overwhelming array of &quot;and of the hopelessness end quote. If we expect Cover to follow Benjamin in calling for a general we are mistaken. Cover concludes, &quot;I think it &quot;in the United States &quot;that most prisoners walk into prison &quot;because they know they will be dragged &quot;or beaten into prison &quot;They do not organize &quot;because they know that if &quot;they will lose, very &quot;If I have exhibited some &quot;for the victims of this &quot;Very often, the balance &quot;is just as I would want it.&quot; Okay. Cover here affirms that a measure of legal And we start to see a partisan of the very Cover does not seek to cloak through a narrative that claims that legal processes vanquish He knows law is violence. And in the U.S. of 1986, he The conclusion is chilling, but is his conclusion much like Athena's at the end of Aeschylus' &quot;The Eumenides.&quot; Now, Gewirtz is only Cover's but he maintained something very similar in relationship to &quot;The Eumenides.&quot; The two legal scholars are but there is some interesting as they both engage &quot;The Gewirtz writes, &quot;Through the Furies, &quot;law is strengthened by terror, &quot;legal judgment is ripened by pain. In turn, this resonates with in &quot;The Genealogy of Morals,&quot; that the turn to law or replace violence with but rather assimilates and for its own purposes. Benjamin made this claim quite explicit in his &quot;Toward a Theory of Violence.&quot; These kinds of arguments seek to debunk the progressive narrative in which violent conflicts through the submission to law, a narrative that sometimes are replaced with that follow established rules and laws. If however, the violence that is actually preserved then a tautology emerges along with a fairly Is living according to than living without them? One can see how an from such an analysis of One can also see how a but one could also well become angry at the very legal institutions that promise to overcome violence while actually embodying violence, often embodying a greater than the one they claim to overcome. If we do feel anger at that, How are we to understand it? Is this not also a legitimate fury, one that can be neither Shall we call it a critical fury that forms in relation to an institution that says one thing and does the opposite, and that claims that only fail to grasp and honor the Of course, one could argue by claiming law continues the violence it claims to overcome, but But that assumes that the violence that and the violence that law deploys Even if we were to accept the argument, that it is only legal violence, that supplants pre-legal violence, we would have to ask whether does not alter the initial violence, making the second instance less violent than the first. The price, Gewirtz might say, or Cover, the price we pay for social order. For one could claim without contradiction that law is violent, and only if one is referring to that can be specified and And if one further argues that the kind of violence alters the kind of violence it might also be possible to conclude that this alteration is What may seem like a trivial is when tries to understand the violence conducted by carceral systems in relation to the violence enacted by those designated as violent criminals. As we know one of the to prison abolition is to say, &quot;But what about the violent criminals? &quot;What do we do with them?&quot; Somewhat prisons, prisons check the violence of individuals, setting aside the fact that prisons often send those individuals into ever more violent cultures, saturated with legitimized as well as forms of violence who are arguably reactive to violent institutional practices, especially when understood to be regenerating systemic racism. In turn, this raises the question of whether prisons produce Whether what counts as a is itself a further iteration of violence, and how best to distinguish among those two sorts of violence. The proposition that one sort of violence can and should be checked by the violence of the prison and justly so. Fury again. The prison system is a or violence that is supported by a complex set of legalities, perhaps no better understood under the rubric of opened up by the law, but In arguing that one sort of through subjecting those criminalized to a violent institution, violence is not only Does this sort of situation Well, I join a great many readers in wondering why the the deal that Athena gives them. They described their anger as infinite, and they vowed to poison Why should they give their eternal vows of Is it plausible that violence in light of a matricide that or that the trial that exonerates Orestes was really that persuasive. One problem with the and hatred from the Furies is that we do not exactly And we do not know why by Athena's offerings, in effect joining her staff Have they accepted her reasons as just? Or were they just very We can speculate that they were bought off with promises of reputation, as I suggested, but does that even make Does it not advance the plot with an implausibly accelerated speed? Endless grief and insatiable revenge seem a bit harder to resolve than that. Could it be that the deal was a good one, precisely because they their violence, that the altered form both inclusion in the community as guardians of the household, and even the kind of police function that gave their threatening powers acceptable social and legal form? Let us consider them that their ability to strike is preserved and transformed defined by the trial. Thus, it is not a matter of relinquishing an overwhelming passion, but of settling on a form that allows for its Only if being held in would it make sense to take the bait of gaining a good reputation. But do those Furies really so deeply that any respite is welcome? And what if you can gain and still exercise vengeance and hatred? Then a compromise formation Gewirtz's suggestion is that the law as figured in &quot;The Eumenides&quot; based on fear and that the of making sure that His view seems right to the extent that they are charged with keeping the various households in order, that is in compliance with the law, and that compliance depends on fear. Helen Bacon made this argument &quot;The Furies Homecoming.&quot; I quote, &quot;The song they &quot;dwells not on their desire for blood, &quot;but on their function as &quot;and on the crucial importance of fear &quot;in maintaining the Athena affirms the I quote from the play. &quot;From these fearful faces,&quot; &quot;From these fearful faces, &quot;I see great gain for these citizens.&quot; Phoberon is the term for fearful here, that is fear inducing. Athena thus confirms the continuity of their threatening powers before and after the trial, suggesting that their does not imply the relinquishment of their power to command to exercise destructive powers. We can infer that the fear of the law follows only where the the threat of punishment. And so, perhaps the Furies by embodying or enacting the We have been told, in order for the law to on the community, citizens Athena cautions against later on line 698, when she asks, &quot;What men who fears nothing Apollo then backs her up on &quot;I command you to fear.&quot; Athena makes it's kind &quot;I command you to fear.&quot; Athena makes clear that on the part of those who And then Apollo issues his The command to fear is No one can suddenly and respond to such a command unless it comes from a fearsome authority, unless the command is And though Apollo does not tell us what the punishment would be were the chorus to fail to fear, we are given to understand that a significant wrath awaits them. The command, in other words, is the announcement of a but maybe not the wrath It is a threat. It may come from him, but who claims to be his mouthpiece. She's also standing in for waiting in the wings. &quot;I had Zeus behind me,&quot; she claims. &quot;Do we need to speak of that? &quot;I am the only God who knows the keys &quot;to where his thunderbolts are locked. &quot;We do not need such, do we?&quot; It would seem that the Furies thus succumb to Athena's proposition from fear, but there's also something They are asking to become for the community. They are threatened, they must fear, but they are also tasked wherever they go. They have transposable as Athena has suggested, and it comes with lifelong security, honor, reputation, new powers, as well as the promise to live a life free of all grief and pain. But this last life free seems linked to this position inducing fear in others. The others will fear loss and pain. The Furies only threaten but are safeguarded from When Apollo commands the that command is not only backed up by a threat of punishment, but models the very task that Athena asks the Furies to take up. It is a transitive action. They are made to fear the command to fear, and that fear is what they in others. The spectrum of violence moves Apollo wields the power of destruction, and Athena, as we know, is backed by some seriously she can unlock at any time. And in this way, violence as an injunction to follow the law and to accept its binding power. But how then does it come about that the Erinyes turn into the Eumenides once they have agreed take over this very task, Some circularity is happening here. Perhaps we should say agreed to take over this task of binding the community to the law in exchange for abiding by the law. The reason I put it this you will remember, reiterating the same threat a few times in the earlier part of the play. Obsessional, they repeat the same words in response to various Speaking as a single voice, they multiply state their and then again on 810, &quot;I disinherited suffering heavy with anger &quot;shall let loose upon the &quot;dripping deadly from my By the time the second they also make plain that what gets translated as a So, Athena is up against quite a threat by the self-proclaimed afflicted ones, but she counters not by No, she offers them new powers fertility, prosperity, and peace, and relieve them of grief and pain. The Furies' threat to spread is thus countered by the joint at which point the encounter consists in an exchange of threats of destruction. Poison in one direction, Thus the turn to law as rests still upon a primary or originary threat of violence narratively considered or founds the law, This is precisely the role of what Walter or mythic violence in toward He calls it law instating violence. So, when Athena counsels the chorus not to cast fear from the city for no one will be righteous without fear, she is setting the stage that comes just a few lines later. &quot;The law requires,&quot; she Just terrors. Can we then conclude that she is effectively &quot;Listen, you will have a new job &quot;under this legal system of mine. &quot;It will be your task to use your power &quot;to deliver threats in &quot;to instill those just terrors &quot;to make sure that they are compliant.&quot; This will not require a retraining for they already have those skills. Gewirtz too underscores the parallel between Athena's strategies in claiming that Athena who warn, I quote, &quot;There are times when fear is good. &quot;It must keep its watchful Can we then conclude that this watchful place within the or rather that they will be responsible for binding those subjects surveying, threatening, binding each and every citizen to the law, through the inculcation of fear presenting as it were the Although Athena claims that receive good, and be good Are we really to conclude that those who are regarded as good are filled with fear and issuing in some way, the that keeps citizens in line? Of course, they are led at the end of the play, not sent off to patrol the streets. But there is no reason to think continues to work, that it does not continue And the example of imprisonment is surely one rather dramatic example of the domestication of fury Of course, Aeschylus' And so, not every aspect of a The possibilities for generalization But what is distinctive about this trial, as so many feminists have noted, is that Orestes has killed his mother for killing his father, and accordingly, the relative seriousness of the crime of matricide and patricide are under consideration. You will remember that that is so terrible, it broaches hilarity, and has induced incredulity As I mentioned earlier, Orestes cannot be found guilty because, alas, mothers don't really exist. And if they do, they are not parents. There was only one real parent, and he's the one with the seed. The idea that the founds this version of law championed by both Athena and Apollo has been persuasively discussed as far as I can tell, but it's not only that the but that once killed, her status as a mother and a Many ways of killing a And every matricide is, in This killing and its denial form the basis of the new I've been following two legal scholars who have exposed the violence of the law and who also linked that Cover does this in relation to the Bible, Gewirtz does this in Another paper, another time, time for something. (audience laughing) That pervasive violence in the law is not finally for Gewirtz, but a necessity we can Like Athena, we might say they both prefer one sort to the violence that is meant to counter, despite the debilitating for those subjected to the law. &quot;The Furies bring more to Gewirtz writes, &quot;Along with fear, which &quot;they bring pain, which &quot;that most essential &quot;Impressing their claims, &quot;that there are times when fear is good, &quot;but also speak of the advantage &quot;in the wisdom one from pain,&quot; end quote. That wisdom is supposedly If one were to bring to bear on this discussion, we would see that it constitutes a break with the mythic violence that Gewirtz identifies For Benjamin, divine violence puts an end to all legal violence. For Gewirtz, for Cover as is but the nascent form of The prisoner will be redeemed. The wisdom redeemed from pain and the law's violence will The Furies thereby echo the vision of tragic the first play in the Oresteian trilogy, found in the arguably most And I quote, &quot;Wisdom comes &quot;Even in our sleep, pain &quot;drop by drop upon the heart, &quot;until in our own despair, &quot;against our will comes wisdom &quot;through the awful grace Well, here's the very different way that Anne Carson renders those lines. &quot;Yet their drips in sleep before my heart &quot;a grief remembering pain. &quot;Good sense comes the hard way. &quot;And the grace of gods, &quot;I'm pretty sure is a grace The Furies are promised a but what kind of promise is that? There's a wager here and If they are delivering pain and grief, will they thereby become For Carson, the pain is grief remembering, suggesting that if the are to be the bearers of wisdom, they will keep the memory of grief or remember in ways that But that is not what they do. As they take the deal on offer, they think they are turning Indeed, one reason some critics shy away from &quot;The Eumenides&quot; is that one cannot find the as one finds another tragedy. Sarah Nooter, my host, has argued that Athena seeks of the chorus with her Nicola Loraux in fact remarks that Aeschylus becomes less interesting &quot;when he reduces the &quot;the true protagonist.&quot; For what is then lost is, in her view, the voice of tragedy, including the presence of powerful enough to pervade the plot. Loraux points to the cry that the sounds of the voice, the voice in grief that that the cry &quot;Aieee,&quot; which is no proper word, but a sounding of grief that And Loraux at least notes mournful songs intrude that is the spoken passages that cannot find their way into words. This is, we might say, of grief remembering pain, that pain, ponos, is also a And so, we might read it as well as a working through the oddly connected, I believe, Can we read in the obsessional repetitions of the Furies, right? That they will poison the earth Can we read in the obsessional a struggle to accept the when that loss remains unacceptable. Clytemnestra has been killed, They cannot accept it. Can we find in that first person voice, both via abyss of language As my host, Sarah Nooter, Here is where the non for what were those sounds at That succumbing of sound This I cannot know, but The Furies, as I've said, that precludes grief at the same time that they identify with the law's violence and agree to do its dirty work. As Desmond Manderson puts it, they were always dogs of the law. He calls them pursuers in Orestes' case, and uses the Greek word for prosecute, says the Greek word for They are depicted as bloodhounds picking up the trace of a guilty scent. And even before taking on their new job, they're described by Manderson of all figures in the play. Even their pre legal pursuit suggesting that the violent from the start. Similarly, at the end of but not negated in the image that's the Sommerstein translation, or the flame sprung torchlight, that's the Lattimore translation. Has the rage become part of the law? Its firing light, its Can we read the rage full torch within the very terms of law. As the Furies are so their burning light that put them there. Legal violence makes the head hurt because all along one has been taught that the law will resolve violence, and that if the law deploys violence, well, that's of another a justifiable one. And yet &quot;The Eumenides&quot; against this narrative. Much within the texts to the manifest plot of progress. Can &quot;The Eumenides&quot; help us with some of the head Well, people are angry, even furious when considering, for instance, and police institutions, even the kinds of violence and one is left as it sometimes in a position that, at least from the point is nearly criminal. One can cannot oppose violence And yet the law has said to If one is angered by this contradiction, this formulation that exposes then perhaps that fury is justified, even indispensable for developing an This is a fury that exceeds any fury that It is one that emerges in filled with the grief that was foreclosed, critical of that legal violence that claims to be a I have posed the question, when the Erinyes became the Eumenides? And now, what follows informed by the fantasy of And finally, how do we read this play in light of the present and legal violence that is in light of the fury in and out of the classroom? So far, I've conducted this investigation as a semi-literate fan of Greek tragedy, but surely not as a specialist, I'm assisted by friends and can tell me which translations I suppose I seek to speak who does not want classics I understand the arguments in the service of white supremacy and few challenges are from those directly in the field. I suppose my wayward readings, the few I've been willing engage Greek tragedy seeking to understand how these compressed and anguished dramas might illuminate central I do not go there to find that are now lost, nor do I think that we in Greek tragedy who can serve I accept the difference with enthusiasm, at the how ancient dramas might for us some pressing about legal violence. Perhaps, I should have said this at the outset of my remarks, but I'm trusting that you and I certainly do not mean to be obscure. For instance, I am struck by the fact that Angela once institutions start diversity, and inclusion, that revolutionary ideals As important as those efforts are, diversity will never be the name for a radical transformation. The Furies, oddly, perhaps inexplicably, agree to join in Athena's polis project, and we can surely ask what Davis remarks that we cannot without first asking in what kind of institution and is it a just institution? If the institution is a violent one, then we oppose the institution We affirm our exclusion from it. Have the Furies become dogs of the law, or were they always dogs of the law? Similarly, feminist theorist, Sara Ahmed, has developed the term non performative to characterize the &quot;Administrators,&quot; she writes, &quot;Can be seen to be nodding &quot;as a discursive effort &quot;for a more thorough &quot;to eliminate all forms &quot;all forms of discrimination.&quot; The nodding and the display are non performative for the action that they refuse to take. They guarantee non-action. Of course, this does not but the fact that we recognize suggests that it happens all too often. In the course of the #metoo movement, some feminists have argued that institutional procedures are a sham for women who have been or indeed for anyone of any gender who has been subject to sexual harassment. The problem as we know is that the only ones who can within a grievance process, and the proceeding founders on the he said/she said impasse. Some have similarly argued have to take place in public, more specifically on social media, precisely because due on those who have been to supply evidence that The public sphere now identified with various forms of media, a situation now intensified becomes the site of these kinds of trials, but there are no procedural rules, no rules of evidence. And in some sense, no trial Of course, this situation which feels like the only option for many who find that institutional have failed to furnace just feels nevertheless like injustice to those who have counted on due process to check discrimination against sexual gender Title IX has been the legal basis for developing administrative to adjudicate sexual And even as we desperately to redress the scourge of harassment, usually linked with we can also worry about the intensification which include surveillance, and a new litigious culture inside and outside of the classroom. There are arguments about all of this from the left and the right, as you know. Some proponents of both personal liberty and academic freedom oppose because they want their including sometimes causing harm that they regularly refuse On the left, we sometimes hear a lament that individual grievances and the series of #metoo deflect from the systemic that is needed, the more Although others would say that the accumulation of such cases can open up precisely the of the issue. In my mind, dilemmas like these call to be understood more in order to find a way through them. The few oppositions I've mentioned do not include a wide on such issues. And given that within and a wide range of workplaces, harassment has become rampant, there have to be procedures and expose those harms. But then when the procedures do more harm, imposing extra burdens on those or become punitive at the risk of obliterating the situation seems far from or law-like procedure, fury on many sides of So, there are good and to try to find the right words, words that could carry that maybe even a deliberation and a fair and effective embedded in a broader These topics deserve a richer than what I can offer here today. An allegation should not or a judgment. Only in Kafka's world does the allegation initiate prior to any trial. And yet accountability is imperative. So, finding the right forum for addressing and obliterating such harms is paramount. What is confusing, but is that some who distrust trials and feel that due process is an instrument used to exonerate sexual assault and other perpetrators of sometimes call for allying with the carceral state. The term carceral feminism describes precisely those positions that call for enhanced punishments against those who commit gender-based or race-based violence. Some who call for greater punishment, which means filling the also question due process. Whereas others feel that requires due process. This too is an important debate that we should take the At the same time, abolitionist feminism arguing that the answer directed against gender, or indeed against anyone is for the courts are a pipeline to prison, two dimensions of the The carceral state intensifies and is itself a violent and The argument is then that it will not do to with violent institutions. That way leads to a more violent world and intensifies systemic racism. For the prison system, systemically and disproportionately disenfranchises, and subjects to violent And here I'm including the indigenous. And yet refusing the carceral and working for another future. For many, the educational the prison universities but they are the model of what prisons should ultimately become. Those buildings should be organized by the principles and become dedicated to education. Within feminism, the and anti carceral trends and it is, I think, no accident that white feminism tends to while prison abolition has emerged as a dominant form of black feminism in this country and abroad. Distinct from intersectionality, Some hear prison abolition and think that means freeing to roam the streets and But what's being called for The institutional violence of the prison, a violence that is too often an intensified form of It's a violence that takes Thus, to call for transformative justice is to call for the dismantling that are justified and reproduced by virtue of their legality. It's only through the that a non-violent world looks possible. This does not mean getting rid of all law, but only not looking to law to all forms of injury and repair. Abolition asks for a theory of asking what other ways are possible in response to violent acts that would not reproduce violence I'm guessing that many of you about grievance and not You know about that maybe I'm not sure you should And sometimes, grievances are precisely to systemic issues like The question of what to do with that is one that grips our lives and seems to pervade our public discourse. Where there is fury, even grievance, there seems to be grief as well, if not a grief remembering pain. My sense is that the projects and transformative justice that no person can be fully summarized by the injury that they've caused another or by one act or even one set of acts. That injurious acts or set of and the life of the person is I sometimes feel that Is not Orestes defined a clear and total murderer. Well, yes, he is. But was he not also doing Had he not suffered the loss of his father through a violent crime Where, if anywhere, do rage, and violence come under examination, certainly not in the trial where the Furies think they will be freed of a life of grief and pain and trot happily down to maintaining, I wager, a terrifying grimace still Certainly not in the trial because he's a man privileging over the loss of a mother, who by the way, never And so, could not have been Somewhere in this trial, this tragedy that sacrifices its own form in the course of elevating grief is lost and rage is subdued. What fades is the lamentation that echoes through the And yet it is not the that lets us understand and why the most powerful is the acknowledgement of loss, the working through of and irreparable grief. And then we have not in this discussion, it if not unnameable within the Perhaps one reason &quot;The is that it reckons with a and violent loss or losses. If we dismiss the rage as uncivil and applaud its domestication, we may well miss what the rage articulates about how unbearable it is to be asked to live with of certain losses, especially those that are and legal violence, Rage will continue to emerge about a legal system that but amplifies racial violence. This is not rage as irrational, but rage as an illuminated a loss that did not have to happen, a taking of life or lives and letting die that by legal institutions themselves. This life and death issue and the rage carries with it an argument, a luminosity that should in the name of civility, certainly not before it's It speaks to justice It speaks to the demand to live, opposing the life negating &quot;The Eumenides&quot; calls attention the legal form that fury can take, the role of fury and to the laws by which And yet the anger against the legal system that deals violence as it is a sound of fury that we It is perhaps why the for the movement for Black lives, where at once acts of exposing racial violence, acting non-violently to demand but also calling for a justice by which the legal system As we know, our classrooms have become they are possible sites indictment, censorship, calling out, or sometimes calling in. I've been suggesting that the can furnish the sites for examining grief, fury, and justice, as they appear in relation to legal This fury is often already So, we surely have many to think about the grievances that emerge in the fields of power in which we work. In my mind, it's not a matter of but understanding what are carried by fury. To foreclose rage is to perpetuate it to repeat the violence even though &quot;The Eumenides&quot; gives us a finally implausible But we can and must read texts so that they can continue to speak to us during times when the remains to be heard and known. As Lauren Berlant has I quote them. &quot;Getting the story right as an act of love &quot;allows for a higher justice &quot;in the face of the law's inadequacy.&quot; And when the story is too much and we reach for the or the trigger itself, we might do well to remember And I quote again, &quot;When this is Lauren. This is not Lauren, &quot;When I say a book breaks &quot;I am changed by it, startled and thrilled &quot;that something has become unbound in me. &quot;I become the loosened object &quot;in proximity to an uncomfortable Staying with the unbearable, opens up the space of heterotopia, new paths for experimentation beyond the limit of the unbearable, the disturbance that is life bears the possibility of new forms at the edge of the unbearable. All the more reason not to and to remain together at the to see what potentials Thank you, Lauren. Thank you all. (audience clapping) - The floor is open for questions. I'm going to, Sarah and I will pass, if you raise your hand, we'll so that everyone in the audience can hear. And also so that your to the livestream. - I wonder what you that the challenge with is specifically the tendency and reciprocal violence. And his thought that the kind is a way to end that And what is the role of the legal system specifically in putting - Well, I never was able fully to accept Arnasia Art's argument in part because it doesn't take into account of violence adequately enough. So, one problem is that vengeance doesn't It becomes something or retributive justice, right? So, there are many or how vengeance comes to an end. I'm not convinced about the role of sacrifice that is so central to And I think there might be of the redemptive character of violence that something can come out of that. I worry that when we talk that we're sometimes not actually looking at what the power dimensions For instance, people say, &quot;Oh, there's a conflict Like, well, is there a conflict or there's a cycle of Well, is there a cycle of violence as if there's one group and it's all the same. It's like, well, what within a colonial structure of power, does that look differently? What if some of the violence and some of the violence is being done in resistance to the state power? Do we need to distinguish. Do we call that vengeance? Is that a cycle of violence or is that a systemic and violent actions that as the way in which colonial over time? So, I'm afraid, I can't with the vocabulary that Gewirtz gives me. And I think it's important that we do so. - So, you sort of honed in on this threat that the Eumenides give that they're going to release poison if their demands are not met. And I went in person, I always thought that when they're assimilated into society. But now after hearing your talk, I'm wondering if that threat, if they did in fact give up this threat. And it may be, this is moving beyond what Aeschylus's text is saying, but perhaps in the could it be possible that the Eumenides in fact into the very system that - And it's a really good question. I suppose my speculation here, building on some of these legal scholars who were trying to my speculation here is that law doesn't work unless law is binding on its subjects. And how does it become It becomes a finding through fear. Those subjects must fear At least Athena believes that. Apparently, some Yale legal And... So, the question is, is the fear that they produce, is that itself a kind of poison or is that, where else do we find poison in the binding character of the law? Is it life debilitating? And certainly, Benjamin, or at least I think I to that effect. So, thank you. I think that's a good point. - Thank you so much for your of &quot;The Eumenides&quot; that reaches out beyond I think I'm a classicist and I think that's what people like you do. So, thank you. My question follows on David's question. As I was hearing you talk or how the Erinyes are I was thinking, okay, this is Of sublimation. This is some kind of negative energy that gets processed and drives some kind of good at an energy, but nevertheless leaves these traces that somehow just cannot be gotten rid of. Now, one question is whether, whether that is a good way of thinking about this institutionalization that you were talking about in answer to the earlier question. And then I thought, oh, but of (speaking in foreign language) which I was taught by Germans to translate as cancellation, which is marvelously kind of paradoxical. And that has a kind of world And then I thought, well, between this elevation, And then the sublimation into the grotto. And so, I'm just as sort of and sort of wondering like, if you think that any of - Well, they're all enormously useful, but here's where I think maybe we're in the face of I mean, if we think about for instance, the sublimation takes the form of what. It takes the form of art, or it takes the form of writing a tragedy, or it takes the form of a cultural form, an artifact, a production of some kind. It can take the form of religion, but I don't think sublimation because the forces of law of, the law represented by more or less in continuity is opposed to the, is not only opposed to the that Orestes should be found guilty and punished accordingly, but they are opposing the of the Erinyes. And they are seeking to make it into So, if we were to, say, look the repressive structure has recruited what it's trying to repress into its own super egoic imagination. So, think about how super egoic rage against the self basically absorbs the very rage into the punitive structure, right? So, that strikes me as very different. There's nothing being There is a way in which... Well, let me, let me put Morality seems to overcome aggression. And yet the way morality works is through a heightened super ego that unleashes aggression against itself. So, it's recruited aggression into the apparatus of repression or, and I'm using it here in than a psychoanalytic sense. So, that's a different kind than I think we can find in sublimation or indeed even in Hegel where something of it is, it's happily transformed as spirit becomes more capacious. Something is lost, something is preserved, something is altered But there's some opposition here where the fury that is opposed becomes the furious opposition of the law, becomes the furious deployment of the law, becomes the fury through which and becomes ever more So, it's another kind of that I think maybe needs a - Hi, if the Furies made that choice, because they realized that into something productive, do you think that they were tricked, or do you think that they were (audience laughing) - Well, because I'm having a good time. I treat them like they're in a gig economy and looking for a job. (audience laughing) So, they're not rational actors. And I don't think this is They're Furies, right? They are passions. They are the figurative emblem of uncontrollable passion, right? So, not exactly conscious but maybe the question is to that deal? Why are they so seduceable So, it seems to me that they're actually not having to give up anything. You would think that if you're going to you need to convince them It's like quit being so angry, talk, give up your furious ways, become a lawyer, adjudicate. That's what we do, right? We're all in our little But the nice thing about the deal is that do not give up your rage. We need it, the law needs it. You are useful. So, you get to keep your rage. And there is this other promise in there, not just for reputational repair, like everyone will love you. So, a narcissistic kind of like, &quot;Oh, everyone loves us now.&quot; But also living a life I mean, if I'm right that is part of the fury from We have to understand as informed by what Carson then who wouldn't take the deal. I've got to take all your grief away. Would you like your grief It's like, &quot;Hmm, take it.&quot; (audience laughing) I don't know. I mean, I'm just, and take it precisely because you will be the one who's You will be threatening producing fear, and that of immunity, right? Like I will not be suffering And I will threaten them with it. And by becoming the one who threatens, I'm relieved of being threatened. So, that's the sketch And it is yes, psychoanalytically And hopelessly presentist, yes. - Okay, many thanks for and fascinating discussion. I've also always been giving in so quickly. And I've been wondering, That is that there may about the fury, about they're protectors of women. And they give that up. It seems to me when they exceed, okay? To the violence as you so So, one element perhaps of the violence, one new element in the violence of the law is the denial of protection So, violence breeds or transferred violence and this may have something - I think so. I mean, I think one could, I could go into this in a which to think about femicide and why it is so often not prosecuted, because it's understood So, throughout Latin America, there are all of these struggles to try to actually And that then has produced, against those who would say this is just a so-called crime of passion and hence not a real crime. And that's what happens in relationships. And no, we're not prosecuting, But then of course, that Like, oh, if we want it to be a crime and we want it to be do we wanna fill the prisons? Like are we there for asking And if we're asking for more imprisonment, do we have to ask what and what they do? And is that the only way? So, that's the problem as I see it. But I also think there's about being told that this woman who or this mother who happened but that she wasn't really a mother. And that even if she was that that life is nowhere near And so, we're not going to prosecute a man for having killed her. But the way in which and then the diminishment but then the stripping of the or making it into nothing other which is the true generative principle for the son, that produced the son, right? So, there's a fantasy that fathers and mothers are nothing but you know this from other sources. So, there's both the death and then the stripping away of status, which is I think, utterly infuriating. And that resonates with the present. - I realized that I've and gestures with hands, we've taken advantage enough of Professor Butler's I'd like to thank her again and invite everyone to (audience clapping) - Thank you. Thank you.