One of the most important individuals, who power of the Corleone family empire, yet is is the legendary consiglieri, Tom Hagen. He helped the empire grow to be worth billions, after all he was the don's right hand man. Under the reign of both Godfather's the reliable in the background, always working behind the And be honest with me, wouldn't you wish Yes even though he wasn't Sicilian. And we'll get to that. The notorious don Vito Corleone, was revered and even talents in navigating and later on But one of Vito's most important skills, was his ability to surround himself with reliable As we see in the films, Vito always surrounds on. After the passing of Vito's close childhood Abandando, in a move that was seen as controversial as his new consiglieri. As the Corleone family grew, and its power Vito had to start relying on the younger generation, expand the empire. And soon began to give more and more responsibility Even though the films didn't focus primarily Corleone family and played a key role in its But as important as he was, we don't know all the canon, analyzing the films, the novel some absolutely shocking facts about the legendary This filled in ALL the gaps and questions Completely changing the way we saw Tom, but His story is actually quite tragic, there So, this is the story of the iconic consigliere, The Rise of Tom Hagen city. Very little is known about Tom's parents, Named Martin Hagen and Bridget Hagen of Irish To say he had a rough childhood is a massive By the time Tom was 12, he had already been Tom's mother had died the year before from father had disappeared. The neighbourhood gossiped and whispered, Some believed he had descended into a bottomless had swallowed him whole. Yet, as the days turned into weeks and the painful clarity--Tom's father was never to Tom and his sister were now on their own. With all that going on, the landlord kicked Throwing out all his families belonging onto He then spent weeks roaming the streets, sleeping could to survive. And developed a serious eye infection. But then his life would change forever. One day as Tom seated, sobbing on a three-legged was his apartment, it so happened that Sonny others. Although they barely knew each other, only Tom said, &quot;I'm going blind, Sonny!&quot; his voice had this desperation, like they badly. This really moved Sonny, he felt like he needed and so after contemplating what to do, he Santino then persuaded his father to take Vito eventually agreed to bring Tom into the change his last name, out of respect to his What's interesting is that I'm sure some of Tom, actually paralleled how he himself he arrived in New York. And well, the rest is I guess history. He would continue to live with the Corleone Relationship with Sonny would be a massive understatement. After all he was the one who had brought him Sonny looked out for Tom countless times, think. Even saving him from the wrath of one Luca But that's a story for a different day. Becoming Consigliere that even surpassed the Corleone children. He was intelligent and proved to be a fast Excluding Michael, he would go much further Corleone children. So, Vito saw a lot of potential in young Tom. But he wouldn't officially join the organisation Don Corleone's first consiglieri was his closest Genco was exactly the type of man every mafia He possessed all the famous characteristics both shrewd and cunning, sharp-witted, even as well as an astute ability to both perceive out others. But wait, What is a consiglieri? If you are not familiar with what exactly role in the mafia, here's what you need In simple terms, A consiglieri plays the role seen as the Boss's &quot;right-hand man&quot;. They are used as a mediator of disputes, representatives In practice the consiglieri is normally the structure of a family. it is traditionally always a senior member is run. They are also often the liaison between the or Judges. Therefore acting as a buffer between the Don threats, whether from the streets or from A Boss will appoint someone close to them, there consiglieri. And we'll get into what makes a "good" this: But anyway, During this time(years), Tom went law schools, in which after graduating, he working, as Vito had connections to the most his surprise, Tom wanted to work under Vito Tom did so knowing full well that Vito wasn't powerful crime boss in the country, but this This genuinely pleased Vito as he knew that a key asset to have. But because of Tom's German-Irish ancestry, in the Mafia, as they did not accept non-Italians. But even so, Tom wielded immense power within both Vito's right hand man and his most trusted diplomacy had always been a more valuable He also provided Don Corleone insight into In 1945, Genco, Vito's childhood friend and Hagen was named acting consiglieri. Which raised quite a few eyebrows, but since it much time. But soon it became clear that Genco was not And so Don Vito did what seemed to be the Officially Appointing a non Sicilian consigliere. making him the first non-Italian to achieve This caused certain rival Mafia families to backs, as &quot;the Irish gang&quot; because of Hagen's War of the 5 Families the commencement of what will be known as to be the biggest challenge Tom would ever The odds were against them, especially given and to be fair any consiglieri in that position of what they were facing. as Sonny surprisingly correctly pointed out.... But this begs the question, was he a "good" Was he a good "War time Consigliere"? Now this isn't as simple as it may seem. But here are some things to consider. I guess the best place to start is what makes Is it winning the war, or avoiding it all What could have done differently to be considered Some factors we have to consider include: which is something that is often pointed out. But more specifically, he wasn't a Sicilian environment let alone have any actual experience. Then we have to understand the simple fact You know, More of a "Saul Goodman" than So when it came to the law and to bend it And that was the true value Tom provided. Sure he could "advise" or give the don at things through a "business" standpoint. A consigliere needs to be a lot more. He is also essentially the family's Chief When you look at Genco, a man who grew up He had a far better understanding on how things Tom grew up for most of his life under the So he was not really equipped or could really His rise was not through the rough streets through the halls of Ivy League Universities. But this is somewhat complex so we'll need comment below what you think? Our upcoming video covering "the art of Once Vito Recovered and learned the news about Sonny, it was time was in. He was brutally honest with himself on where he could do now, was buy some time. He was willing to lose the battle in hopes When he managed to safely get Michael back bringing him into how the family really works. The Corleone family was in a very desperate and respect from the other Dons, who saw this era. But Vito and Michael were actually preparing the entire criminal world. And with Michaels new vision and drive to working on this monumental mission. Michael was a fast learner, seemingly almost, Soon, Michael was ready to take over the family back. Straining their relationship. Why michael removed of the film. Even as intelligent and shrewd as Tom was, calibre of a true Sicilian consiglieri. Even though his approach might seem reasonable, taking on all the five families, especially But what would have been the right approach? It's very difficult to say what exactly would approach was correct. as Sonny and Tom were polar opposites. on One hand you have Sonny as the acting boss, was far too reckless in matters of strategy, dons, such as Don Barzini or really any of same time. But its important to mention that Sonny, although put in a similar situation in the past during really did successfully manage to cause some on top. However, Vito quickly recovered and patched But then you have Consigliere Tom Hagen, who when it came to peacetime negotiations and however had no real direct experience, on Which is why we see Tom trying to make deals but what shattered Tom's overall confidence what ended up happening to Sonny. While he loved all the Corleones, Hagen idolized blamed himself. It affected him so much that He had to have the news to Vito. And it continued to haunt him ever since. one of Michael's most drastic and unpredictable consiglieri, down to just a lawyer to oversee This obviously offended Tom, And a move that But Tom fought back, and Michael simply told a wartime consigliere. adding that it was no reflection on the work and Vito agreed.... But after Vito's passing, Michael reinstates is still weary of Tom, and for some reason excluded from certain aspects within the family. Role in Part 2 Tom remained on with Michael during the move role that he disliked. He was excluded from the negotiations with He also apparently made moves towards becoming Reinstatement compound, Michael appointed Tom as acting This came as quite a surprise to Tom, as it Consequently, Tom finally understood why Michael of the family business. Michael explained that this was why he had him; he knew that Tom lacked certain information to use against him. Hagen played an instrumental role in both Patrick Geary and defending Michael as his After Michael had dealt with all his enemies end that he needed Tom to handle. Michael instructed him to convince the almost-traitor let's just say, remain permanently silent, This was to protect Michael and the Family With Pentangeli and other enemies eliminated, as the most powerful crime family in the nation long-time vision. Offer from outside family Michaael caught wind of an offer sent to Tom. It was a very lucrative offer to take up the Hotels" in Vegas. Even with Michaels cruel remarks and insinuations, to the family. After this I'm sure you recall what happened And so this is the last we ever get to see So now it's time to answer One of the biggest the films, His death watched The Godfather 3 for the first time. Can you still remember it? Can you recall that opening scene, and noticing I think the biggest disappointment was not around. He left a very big hole in that movie, that else. Now, let me be clear; this isn't a criticism say that not having Robert Duvall reprise Putting that aside for a moment, it's puzzling Tom, we never hear anything more about his This raises an obvious question: Tom Hagen so why do we not know what happened to him? Up to this point, every character had their So, what exactly transpired with Tom? After extensive research and investigation, frustratingly unclear. But after some digging, here's what we do In the films it isn't really addressed, However, the later novels offer an alternative In the novel, "The Godfather's Revenge", 1964 , a former caporegime. who had kidnapped and drowned Tom in Florida. However, Paramount Pictures have stated that which means that his death in the novel is But there is another version of what could Dean Reisner's draft of The Godfather Part (this section is an action scene. It starts off slow and builds up) Hagen was in his car along with his driver They were escorted by various buttonmen under from a nearby car, The first hit takes out the driver which then The second hit takes out Hagen instantly. The shotgunner then disappears and when the jump out of their cars and rush to the crash Anthony was the only survivor of this ambush. _______________________________________________________ But what actually seems to be the primary the fact actor Robert Duvall had some disagreements Therefore, He turned down the role and was Which is unfortunate, but it is what is. Either way, I personally want to thank Mr He was a key pillar that made these films agree. Lessons From Tom As usual, one of our core focuses in The Culture across history and people. And without a doubt analysing Tom Hagen leaves learn from. Tom Hagen, is a character who exemplifies the power of silence. His pragmatic approach to navigating the treacherous into effective decision-making and adaptability. We might need a full video breaking down all language cues that he utilises. If you are interested in that comment below, I want you to think about. Emotional Control: at maintaining emotional control, even in This illustrates the power of composure. It reminds us that reacting impulsively out poor decisions and strained relationships, By staying calm and collected, one can think Number 2. Less Talk, More Action: demonstrates how important it is to communicate Often, talking too much can weaken the power He knows at some point words become useless, And the action can be as simple as just closely saying. By listening attentively, we can gain insights, It also shows respect for others' perspectives circumstances. Number 3 A true "professional": about Tom, is the way he carries himself. Especially during that meeting with the music He is calm, patient and does not offend or He goes the extra mile, willing to do everything desired results. And there is a lot we can learn from that. Yes we aren't consiglieres to a mob don, but is something worth pursuing. So it's not just his tailor made suits, it encompasses his conduct, integrity, and Number 4, Eyes open, mouth shut, always on The mantra &quot;eyes open, mouth shut&quot; embodies This teaches us the importance of staying for unexpected challenges, and being flexible It's a valuable lesson in navigating the unpredictable Number 4, Respect: driven. He doesn't allow his position or status to No matter whom they are. He is a professional after all. Now this last one is key, and is what gave We'll be sharing this final lesson exclusively More info in the description. Once again thank you for watching, comment end. Once you've done that, you need watch this