ah Ahhhh ah Ahhhhh Ahhhh ah Ahhhh Ahhh Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Ahhhhh Ahhh Ahhhhh Ahhh Ahhh Ahhh ah Yeah Ahhhhhhh Ahhh ah ah You go get something Leave it to me here careful ah Ahhhhh Ahhh Ahhhh Ahhhh Ahhh Ahhh ah ah Ahhh Coming Soon You are so disobedient. This time it's a big deal Ha ha ha ha Don't go Li Zihao Mr. Li Mr. Li alright Amen Open this okay who can Time to go Finally met That thing Bring it here dream ah Ahhhh Ahhh Ahhhhh Ahhh Ahhh Ahhh ah Ah, nothing ah Ahhhh Ahhhh Ahhhh Ahhh Ahhhh Yeah Ahhhhhhh ah ah Uh-huh Put the knife down Put down the gun Ouch master The young master's driver died A murderer's photo was found at the scene Photos left behind It's the master's. The housemaid Find another batch. Mr. Report You have to protect more than just my son's safety. And what he's doing Mr. Lin, thank you very much for your trust in me I have another person for this mission. Zhong Xiaonan Born in 1992 Native of Shandong National Lightweight Mixed Martial Arts Champion for two consecutive years Later, due to excellent shooting skills Selected to join the special police detachment Single soldier combat emergency guard firearms mixed shooting A armor Promoted to non-commissioned officer in August 2016 Participated in local actions 6 times A total of 5 suspects were arrested Killed 3 people Ah Liang My goods have arrived. Hey, slow down. Please pack it for me Take this fish. Thank you, Brother Long You say it yourself You always take cash. It's annoying to go to the bank every time. Sorry for the trouble, Brother Long Thank you, Miss An. Take care. Why do you keep following me? Really good skills This is the level of the people Zhou Hechen brought up. Yo I see. Your dad's captain's hand I followed him for 6 years I'll come to you I want to entrust you to help me protect an important client. You got the wrong person This money is enough to pay for his medical expenses. What the doctor said Doctors say If I don't have surgery in half a month, I won't be able to stand up. ah Crown Crown Wenwenwen Wenwenwen Don't think about your mother. Wenwenwenwen Lin Zihao is the one you need to protect The only son of Lin Heng, a genetic expert in Shuangta, was accidentally injured. Local police believe it was an accidental injury In fact, it is a warning to Lin and his son. His father is hesitating Do you want to cooperate with Huayao Group? If once cooperation The market for some high-priced drugs will be shaken So many people want to make trouble for the Lin family. 7 days It only takes 7 days to sign a cooperation agreement Official meeting in 7 days Mr. Agent? ah Zhou Xiaolan ah Mr. Gao didn't say thank you to you. Gao Bin sent me here Let's go kingdom kingdom right next to the hotel Miss Zhong's first visit to the Twin Towers Well, the master specifically told me about these 7 days. Let me cooperate with you with all my strength Thanks Oh yeah Miss Zhuang A while The young master will definitely respond to the old master's arrangement. Miss Zhuang, you You must understand. Don't be surprised My Responsibilities Responsible for his safety Nothing else matters Miss Zhou, please wait a moment. Uncle is back Shan Ye, this is the bodyguard that the master found for you. Is this necessary? Didn't the police say it was a burglary? I really don't know what to think Find a woman Hello Mr. Lin I am your bodyguard Zhong Xiaonan Hello, Ms. Zhuang I don't need your protection My Contract It takes effect from the moment I see you. Next 7 days I am solely responsible for your safety That is 3 minutes and 24 seconds ago My work has already begun Miss Zhou Thank you so much But you can leave work. Mr. Lin What time do I get off work? You don't count. I want to make sure you are in my sight 24 hours a day Send it over. I don't need a woman's protection I'm sorry, Miss Zhao. You didn't tell me I'm a woman? What's happening now? First, people don't feel it's dangerous. No need for women's protection You are a loyal and filial man. I believe you can handle him. Ahhhh ah Don't run Don't run ah Ahhhhh ah Ahhh ah ah ah ah Ahhh Ahhh Ahhh Ahhh ah ah Ahhhh ah ah Ahhh ah Hey Miss Zhong What's going on? When did these people come to work at the Lin family? After the driver died last time The master said to replace all these with new ones We can't stay in the car anymore, let's go I'll put on some clothes. Oh, what are you wearing? Hey hey hey wait Wait, this car is not safe anymore. There are other cars in the garage. I'll go take a look All vehicles can be tracked What to do then Master, I have wronged you. Don't care where I go. You advocate believing in Zhong Xiang No, no Do I believe him? Hey, it's not you who said Can we change the location? Not us. I stink. Take a Bath Oh, Miss Zhu. These are clothes for the young master. Where is the young master? Taking a bath Oh, Miss Zhu lost money today. There is you Oh yeah I've called the police. They will send someone to protect us soon. And Miss Zhong This is the temper of our young master. He is like this Please don't take it to heart. Actually, he is a very kind person. He is innocent and kind, and it has nothing to do with me. Taking money Eliminate disasters for others This is what I should do Are you hungry? I'm going to buy something to eat. It's not what happened Ahhh Ahhh Ahhh Ahhhhh Ahhhhh Ahhh Ahhhh ah Ahhh Ahhhhh Ahhh ah Letting go Uh-huh Ahhhhh ah Wow! ah Master, Master Are you okay? ah ah Ahhh ah Chief Inspector Du My people were killed by the new bodyguard again. Help me think of a solution How many times have I caught you? How to be a human being So many people were sent out. Didn't catch any. You should have a more positive attitude I don't care what your reason is. ah I know you're sad now But we have to face the present first What do you want to do? I get lost when I come in. Are you there yet? I'm already going up the stairs I have arranged the car. Go forward The legal person took it to the waiting safe house for observation. What Now isn't it? The time is now How many times have I told you I don't know We are the police Check it out yourself Able to stay calm We police don't need you to hand over your money when we investigate a case. Sir, this is their pen. We send this kind of ticket here Why Sit down Young people are so angry Sit, sit, sit I'm Peter from the Criminal Investigation Department, Unit 9 We are now handling this case. You and these two gunmen have never met. How do you know they have a problem? Intuition You are me Mr. Lin's bodyguard I don't need Haha, Mr. Lin, don't worry. Start now Your safety is our sole responsibility Take me with you I must be with him 24 hours a day It looks like you've been fired. I don't need you anymore Where are we going now? Mr. Lin, don't worry. I will definitely get you to a safe place Which road are you taking? Wrong? brother Which team are you from? Who is your commander? Sit down and stop talking nonsense Ahhh ah Ahhhh ah Stop the car Ahhhhh Ahhh ah Ahhh ah Ahhh Ahhh Ahhhh ah Ahhhh Ahhh Ahhhhhhhhhhhh ah Ahhh ah Ahhh Ahhh Ahhh ah Hey Mr. Lin Shouldn't you consider cooperation? You take good care of my son I agree to cooperate with you Let's contact tomorrow I am Mr. Lin's bodyguard I have to be with him 24 hours a day I don't need Aren't you responsible for protecting Lin Zihao's safety? Where are the people? Someone in the car pretends to be a police officer Walk Why i'm free Eat quickly. Eat quickly. Run two more laps. Alright? Right now Come come come Drink it up Let's go to the old place after work tomorrow. Hey, brother Um Hey, let me tell you New stuff at the old place Hey you Go and see what's going on. ah Ahhh ah ah ah Ahhh Ahhhh Ahhh ah Are you okay? fine Ha ha Hi Come out soon i'm coming where are you Ahhh ah I asked you to bring her back to me. I didn't ask you to kill her. Do you understand? Shut up I'm going to kill that Chinese woman Nana Nana Where are you taking me to answer me Back to the scenic area Can't return to the scenic area The current situation happened because I went to the police station. Miss Zhong, then tell me Where should we go now? You can't go back to the police station. There is a problem within your police force. Can you listen to me for a few words? cannot Ms. Zhong Mr. Lin's current situation is not what I want to see. But anyway The police station is still the safest place I told you there's a problem within your police force. If there is safety at the police station You are the safest place now Otherwise where would I go? you tell me I know go Your current behavior It's a serious threat to me. And my clients' safety Did you understand? You let go, you let go Are you crazy? Enough Where are you now Chief We had some accidents today. but We are all safe now Why don't you report to me? Is Lin Zihao with you? I'm asking you Is Lin Zihao with you? Yes sir Why hit her hit her Officer, I repeatedly I emphasize to you again and again There is a problem within your police force. I tell you Today, those guys pretending to be police officers It must be related to this guy named Durr. Have you said enough? Ms. Zhou Please respect our policing system. Even if there are real problems within our police department There is no problem with our commander, Durr. Are you sure If he really has a problem If he really has a problem Mr. Lin is still alive today For such a little money Taking such a big risk Is it worth it? Master Lin Not everyone in this world is like you. I won't worry about money. For some people money It's fate No surgery for half a month I can't stand up anymore Mom, I want to go back to school. Okay, we're fine. Let's just go back to bed, okay? He is less than 10 years old But the rest of life We should not suffer from malice anymore. I'll take you somewhere Look over there quick there It's really urgent No, no. What about you? Do you understand? Can't recognize it Take a closer look The mice run pretty fast. Walk The time is almost done Those people just want to steal my original research and development data Time is running out We can only rely on ourselves These development process data Can't fall into their hands Must go home hi are those little rhymes i don't know you all love us ah Who are you? What are you doing? ah don't want Ahhhhhhhhh ah Ha ha ha ha According to the information currently available One Chinese female Kidnapped the only son of a local Chinese businessman Lin Zihao Two police officers died in the exchange of fire A sheriff is missing I hereby assure all citizens We will do our best to catch the criminals Ensuring public safety This morning A private research institute in this city A terrorist attack occurred Many people died in the incident No one survived the scene The suspect's attack was brutal Extremely bad nature Caused a huge negative impact The cause of this incident The police are still investigating If you have more clues, please Please contact the police Take care of your people How does such a big thing end? This is my place So many lives lost I am responsible for Isn't it just a few deaths? What are you nervous about? You have a lot of murder cases. I'm warning you. From today No more killing. Otherwise, I don't care. Good good good Don't kill Cool down Have a drink madman This is where I lived when I was a kid. Don't worry, few people know this. So it's safe My lab is in the basement. Either the experiment is about to be completed We must hand it over to Huayao Technology safely He's like this, you take a break I have to hurry up. That's fine My mother died when I was very young He's an excellent special police officer. Was it a sacrifice? Xiaolan You have to understand dad. Understand I understand But you don't understand Take off this clothes What do I mean? He must have lost you because he loved you It's good I chose to be a special police officer Just to inherit his warning so I think he will be with me forever. Ms. Zhong Be brave How did they come? They shouldn't know This is what I said According to the information currently available One Chinese female Kidnapped the only son of a local Chinese businessman Lin Zihao Two police officers died in the exchange of fire A sheriff is missing Chief The materials and facts of the city's wanted list are quite different. Approved, right? You have a beautiful wife. And a lovely daughter So cute, I believe you I hope to see your daughter too. Grow up happily I don't have to choose Go fast Ahhh i'm coming This side stop stop You go get something Leave this to me careful