Quick NO 3 00:00:10,933 --&gt; 00:00:12,800 Why give it to you? explain NO I give you money so that you Zhou Huan is still fucking sleeping here mom Don't tear it down. What are you doing? Don't tear it down. this This house is the inheritance my grandfather left me. You dismantled it. Where will I live in the future? I am Zhou Huaian This is your last chance to take the 10,000 yuan Get out of these houses This piece The compensation for other relocated households is at least 5 million yuan. twenty one 00:00:51,866 --&gt; 00:00:53,700 Why do you only take 10,000 yuan? twenty two 00:00 :53,700 --&gt; 00:00:55,133 Just sent me away twenty three 00:00:55,366 --&gt; 00:00:57,800 You're a stinking loser who doesn't even have a job twenty four 00:00:58,166 --&gt; 00:01:00,000 Want to get rich overnight by demolishing houses? Dream on I'll give you the price for this house. you It doesn't matter because I have no money. Do I deserve to be bullied by you ? You guys are clearly withholding compensation. Illegal occupation You change I've decided to demolish this house. I dismantle You don't tear it down You don't tear it down You can't dismantle You can't dismantle Small ring You haven't There is blood. There is blood. ah You count on the demolition team Bullying a poor person Violent demolition Just a bandit. ah this I I can actually see the price of this house Should Did it hit his head? Are you hallucinating ? Badly worn shadow Value 2 billion Domestic smartphones with 2 years of life left Value: 1,200 yuan Fushan Spring Mineral Water Value 2 yuan Ming Zhende folk Bozhu is worth 300,000 Isn't this what I bought at a street stall? It's worth 300,000 I go I can actually see the real prices of these items Was it because his head was hit? A blessing in disguise Obtained the Eye of the Gods The house on the east side Let you implement the demolition as soon as possible Almost killed someone This has had a huge impact on our Xiao Group. How does it work? Mr. Xiao is that Zhou Huaian No matter how much money we offered him, he would not agree So when we are excited, It's not that you guys are not doing your job well. never mind Solve this matter yourself It's over. It's over. Running line oh Since I, Zhou Huaian, have obtained the All-Seeing Divine Eye Looks like he's reached the peak of his life. Hua Ange I heard that your family's compensation is coming soon . Xiao Xiaomi, why are you here? I heard you were injured. Come to see you specially Yo Does it hurt? fine Angkor Your compensation should be quite a lot. return fine actually I love you for a long time What are you doing? Do you like him or not? like Then your compensation has come. Should I be the one to keep it? meeting Even though I have nothing now But don't worry I will definitely be responsible for you From now on, everything I have is yours. Nothing, etc. Aren't you going to get your compensation? Demolition team bullies people I didn't get a penny. After a long time You're still a poor loser. I dressed up carefully today. You are so unlucky . Xiaomin Xiaomin I can make money now. You believe me I will definitely make a lot of money so that you can live a good life. You can't even find a job. What do you use to feed me? You don't even take a piss and look at yourself. You're such a poor bastard. Which woman is willing to spend her youth waiting for you? snort Doesn't having money mean you don't deserve love? snort Poor people talk about love Don't you think it's funny You just guard this broken house of yours. Being single for life Stay out of the crowd Millet Please save Zhou Huaian Beauty If you also want compensation Come and seduce me I advise you not to waste your time I don't have a penny I am Xiao Yueqing, President of Xiao Group You name a price for the compensation. But don't think the lion is open Who am I? Mr. Xiao, right? My house is worth 5 million. Why do you take 10,000 yuan? That will get me sent away. I'm the lion's mouth Or are you, the Xiao family, bullying others by taking advantage of your power? What you said is true Although I, Zhou Huaian, am poor But it's not for you to bully casually. Mr. Xiao If you weren't Chen Jing, Please go slowly. Feed the Secretary Immediately investigate the Tokyo demolition project Is Catwoman among them? If all persons are legally Are you really willing to deal with this? I, Xiao Yueqing, have always been good at doing things. You look like a nouveau riche. He's a nice person. ah Value 1,0001,000 million British Royal Brooch You filthy bastard How dare you touch me You misunderstood. I did not mean that It's just that your brooch is so special I couldn't help myself Shut up you stupid bald guy I tell you I won't give you a cent of compensation. Hey You misunderstood never mind This 775 million in compensation never mind I, Zhou Huaian, am not good at making money. from now on I'm not that poor loser anymore. Ha ha ha ha Why Are you OK It's you You idiot How dare you follow me? Who is following you? If you bother me again, I'll beat you up. This woman has a really bad temper. Who would marry you? That's really bad luck. grandfather Ye Qing, who has offended you again? It's ok, Grandpa. Ye Qing Hey, look. This is grandpa's new baby. How about Nacai Taoyong Nacai pottery glaze is mixed with extracted clay and fired Contains poison gas Prolonged contact Oh, Master Xiao You have a really good eye. Our Taoyuan is worth more than 20 million. As long as you take it home There will definitely be mountains of gold and silver Everything is going smoothly. Yes, Not Bad Thank you. Please pay. etc. This wealthy friend I advise the elderly not to buy it. This flood How can the things chosen by the Xiao family leader be suitable for you? this What does this mean? Zhou Huan, why are you following the trend again? If you don't want to die, Put this thing away now. How dare you question my grandfather's judgment? Do you believe it? Break one of your limbs. Boy, I have read Countless Never been slapped in the face You tell me something. How can this pottery figurine have poisonous gas? This pottery figurine of yours contains poison gas Prolonged contact is harmful to the body Master Xiao Don't believe what this guy says. How can we , who are so annoying, have poisonous gas? Do you believe that I will hire someone to kill you? Mr. Xiao, don't worry. There will be no problem with our things. Please look Ouch What does this smell like? Yes, it's poison gas. This is poison gas. It's really poisonous You are so brave. How dare you poison my grandfather? Oh, Master Xiao I'm really sorry. I was also deceived. I didn't mean to harm you. This evil Generally, it is a means for the royal palace to compete for favor and create enemies. Humph, someone like you shouldn't be able to do this kind of evil. What the hell Hey boy. It's really well written. The theater is also different Look, you saved my life. And it opened my eyes So, There happens to be a treasure appraisal conference tonight. I implore you to come and participate, okay? As a way of repaying you Okay, then we can't stop attacking. Mr. Xiao, why didn't I see it? Where is Grandpa Xiao? Grandpa has a meeting in Longcheng Must attend Just left on a special plane All right Everyone please be quiet I am Xiao Zhan, the second head of the Xiao family I guess everyone knows As usual, each person chooses 3 items The one with the highest total value wins The winner can take any item of the collection away from the spot. It seems that today is the day for me, Zhou Huaian, to come to the fore Mr. Xiao, I remember that the head of the Xiao family once said Who has the ability to identify treasures? He betrothed his granddaughter Xiao Yueqing to There are countless treasure appraisers here today. I, Wang Xi, won the first prize, which also proved my strength. I hope you Xiao family don't Wang Xi, what nonsense are you talking about? This is just a joke No trust, no benefit What's more, your Xiao family still has the attitude of the antique world . Won't open this Wang Shao is right. Mr. Xiao I am waiting to be the grandson-in-law of the Xiao family. My brother did say this. But since I searched, it's good. Then the game begins Blind Master Wang Xin is a notoriously stubborn kid I won't attend Hey, I want to participate too. Where did the stinky stuff come from? The whole body exudes the sour smell of poverty Also cooperate with me Why is this treasure appraisal a competition of treasure appraisal ability? It doesn't say poor people can't participate. Are you afraid of losing to a poor man like me? Lost Beauty snort Such a big tone Boy, today I will make you admit defeat with all your heart. Do you dare to bet with me? The loser today kneeled on the ground and called me grandpa. Congratulations on getting the beauty good I will accept your blessing early. Lord, You really opened my eyes. But I kindly advise you Wang Xin is the top treasure appraiser of the younger generation. You may not have a chance of winning against him. Mr. Xiao I have confidence in myself Wait till I win I will definitely marry Miss Yueqing in a grand sedan chair. Good young people have courage Mr. Deng is shameless Who asked you to marry? Why do you want to marry Wang Xin, that playboy? You're enough, start now. A Hetian jade pendant with dragon pattern made by the Emperor Yingzong of Ming Dynasty Value 7 million The Yinhanling Demon Qiu Jin Wang Late Autumn Scenery is worth 30,000 100 million What This painting of the underworld actually contains a picture of the autumn scenery of a hundred million Wang Shen sincere You have already selected three collections. Now The result will be announced by Master Ye, the treasure appraiser of Zhongzhou These three antiques selected by the prince Total value 10 million The highest value in the venue That's right This dragon pattern and Tian Jade is the jade quality in the dark This jade pendant is worth about 7 million The collection worth 10 million yuan on site Can find the second one That's good. Please let Yuqing I really look forward to you calling me husband. wait I haven't seen my painting yet. So anxious Not suitable Zhou Kai I thought you had so much strength to challenge me. I didn't expect it to be a silver gun candle head medicine Take a replica from the Ming Dynasty What if you are blind? I can win with just this one treasure haha Just rely on this 30,000 or 40,000 copy painting Zhou Huai, you are really good at it. If I were you, I would find a hole in the ground and crawl into it. Save yourself from embarrassment A simple test will tell whether it is a dragon or a worm Everyone's eyes are sharp In full view of the public What's more, our Master Ye and Master Xiao have eyes. Do you have a special eye-catching trick? Why This is a replica Worthless you lose Zhou Hua I thought you were a treasure appraiser. I didn't expect you to be a newborn calf. Teacher Xie Mr. Xiao, please take a good look at my painting. This painting of mine is really unique. Zhou Huai, Master Ye and Master Xiao have both said Why do you doubt their ability? Master, I know you want to help me. But this matter is already a foregone conclusion Don't get involved with me. Solve your own problems Believe me Don't embarrass yourself. Zhou Hai, if I were you Kneel down now and say grandpa Congratulations on getting the beauty, hahahaha Please look at that this this This is the authentic work of Wang, whose value is discussed That's right Tape measure pen holder paper fully complies And it is so well preserved ah Oh my god, this painting actually has a lot of secrets. There is also a painting hidden Isn't this possible? So many experts and masters didn't see it How did you tell? You have my eyes. You think you are like Blind and stupid Treat pearls as fish bones You are awesome later. I didn't expect this young man to have such ability. I admire you so much Zhou Hua, you really didn't let me down I declare the winner of this competition Chang Zhouhua Thank you for your understanding. I also fulfilled my eldest brother's promise Ma Xiaoqing, marry you I didn't expect that a farmer boy from an unknown place would It actually has the ability to bring in treasures And got the beauty back Mr. Xiao Marriage is no joke Do you really want to marry me to him? Okay, Ye Qing. Zhou Han is not an ordinary person His help We can rest assured I will give you all the Xiao family's property. Thank you, Mr. Xiao Okay, no more talking. I want to have this painting framed. Yue Qiang Just cultivate your relationship with Faner. Ha ha Mr. Qiao, wait for me I also want to see Wang Shan's landscape painting Why Wang Xi Did you forget something? Zhou Huaian asked me to call you grandpa You can afford it The heir to the royal family Are you going to cheat? People without faith are powerless This is what you said Since you lost Be willing to accept defeat In the antique world, the most important thing is trust. grandfather Hey, did you miss a word? Grandpa, congratulations on your beautiful wife. Ha ha ha ha good But if I had a grandson as disappointing as you Then my ancestors must have been unlucky for eight generations. I don't want anything to do with you. Go away. Zhou Huai, wait for me. Mr. Xiao saw it all. You're lucky. Speak the truth I didn't expect you to have seen a liar. I don't want to marry him Mr. Xiao It is impolite to speak ill of others behind their backs you How did you follow me? Grandpa Xiao betrothed you to me I came to see you and we had already made a bet What agreement That's just a joke Grandpa Xiao asked us to cultivate our relationship Oh, really Okay, I won't tease you anymore. I know you are so high and mighty The President's daughter I'm a loser. But don't worry I won't do anything to you correct Since I helped you so much Should I be thanked? I see you clearly Zhu Han, you have other intentions, right? I take the demolition compensation I deserve How can you say you have other intentions? 5 million in compensation I will let people forward every cent Thank you, Mr. Sit down, sit down. What are you doing? Wang Xi, do I need to report to you about what I do? Yueqing, is he the one who bullied you? I'll teach him a lesson for you. Wang Xi, stop talking nonsense Chat about things privately Did Yueqing force you to say it? We are talking about things alright I'm tired. I'm going to rest first. Mr. Xiao, wait for me. My project is not finished yet. Xiao Yuqin didn't expect you to act so noble in front of me But he was hanging out with that poor loser Zhou Huaian Wait until my plan succeeds I must pay the price Does Yu Qian still remember this thing? This is my grandma's legacy. How come I'm here ? Of course I got it at the treasure appraisal meeting. I took it away when the treasure appraisal meeting started This jade pendant is very important to our Xiao family. My grandfather won't allow you to take him away. This is the rule your grandfather made himself. Your grandfather said that the things in the treasure appraisal meeting Everyone will come This is also your fault for being careless. Leave the old man's belongings there for everyone to see Okay, I'm willing to buy it. Money I don 't need money Please sign this equity transfer agreement. Wang Xi, it seems you are well prepared. Xiao Group is my hard work. Why should I transfer your 15% shares? Xiao Yueqing, you must remember You have no right to speak good I'll exchange with you As long as you return grandma's belongings to me Feed my bad husband This is not Xiao Yuqing at all Wait Xiao Yuanqin The jade pendant in his hand is not your grandmother's. Don't let him give you the jade pendant Cheated I won't be wrong. Xiao Yuqin, believe me The jade pendant in Wang Xi's hand It's definitely not your grandmother's relic. Zhu Huaian, what do you know? Grandma's jade pendant is very important to me. Could you please stop messing around ? Wang Xin, let's exchange immediately No, I changed my mind. You let Zhou Huaian kneel down and beg me I'll give you the relics. Don't listen to him. The jade pendant in his hand is definitely not the one you want. Zhou Huaian You kneel down and apologize to Wang Xin Why should I apologize to him? If you still want to get compensation Apologize to Wang Xin immediately As long as I get Grandma's compensation I will compensate you Why It's your business to degrade yourself You have to pull me down Okay Xiao Yeqing Sign it now. If you sign, I will give you the jade pendant. I kiss Little Love Heart This word must not be signed Shut up and stay out of my business Since Xiao Yeqing wants this piece of trash so much Then I'll try this Take him up Can't go down My eldest brother gave me this when he left. What This jade pendant is fake Wang Xi How dare you lie to me? Xiao Yueqing, you are shortsighted. I can't recognize my grandmother's belongings. Xiao Group's equity I will accept it with a smile Hey, stop right there. Xiao Xiaoqing's trap is so big You actually went in willingly It's really a disgrace to the Xiao family. Auntie, I know I'm wrong. I will accept any punishment What's the use of knowing you were wrong now? You can't even recognize your grandma's belongings. It's simply become a laughing stock of the world. Go to the Hall of Death Kneel down and wait for my elder brother to come back and deal with it Mr. Xiao, you don't have to be so angry. Although this jade pendant is a replica of last week's But in my opinion He has money Maybe you can make less money young people This kind of handicraft is made of the leftovers of the original stone. Not worth anything It seems you still don't believe me Vision My intuition tells me This jade pendant is not simple Intuition is not something you can trust. Young man, you have a lot to learn. Zhou Hua, you don't need to consider Since you like this batch of jade pendants Then I'll give it to you . Since Ye Qian sent you Just take it Don't care But you know you want to give me this jade pendant. Since it is easier Just accept it If it was not good before I'll give you a piece of Hetian jade Master Xiao , it seems you still don't believe me How about this, Mr. Xiao? Please help me find someone Help me wipe off the surface of this jade pendant To wipe off the surface of the jade pendant Must enter the workshop The workshop is not accessible to ordinary people. Wait for my elder brother to come back and accompany you. All right Hey, come come come ah Remove the jade from the surface of this jade pendant Careful, there's no need. This piece of jade is not very big No matter how precious the jade is. Not worth much good Already wiped off Is it yam or green and white? I'm really gambling incredible Dushan jade currently available on the market But it's rare. Just a small piece It must be tens of millions at least. More than that This is still a jade plate Imperial Seal This is the jade This piece of jade alone is worth 30 million If it can be matched with famous sculptures Double it, no problem Mr. Du Discuss something with you I'll give you 50 million Waiting for you, Zhushan people Not cute at all Second Grandfather, this precious jade belongs to Xiao Yueqin I'm just responsible for safekeeping Grandpa Xiao Xiao Yueqin should no longer be punished to kneel. No, no, no Mr. Zhou really doesn't know Thank you no, I'm fine You are welcome Grandpa Xiao, I will tell Yueqing now. No more kneeling punishment. sorry Sir, don't cry No need to go to regulations Shuhuan You came to see my joke . I tell you Don't be complacent I won't pay a cent for the compensation. This jade was given There is a bunch of poison hidden inside Take 300,000 yuan from me right now I've given it to your grandfather. Your grandfather omitted his name. real You didn't lie to me sorry You keep saying I'm a liar When have I ever cheated on someone? I didn't expect you to be so capable. I used to look down on you That's your dog's eye. What did you say? Can you say that again Mr. Xiao, look, I can help you solve such a big problem. And that piece of Dushan jade is worth 3,000 Shouldn't Don't communicate Zhou Haiwan I tell you Three times the compensation is not a loss The company has its own principles I can't break this rule. But today's things thank you so much Hello You are destroying the bridge. Repaying Kindness with Evil I helped you make 30 million The company has its own principles I don' t care if you agree to me I won't leave. Let go, can you Don't sit in front of the table where I sit in Xiao Jialie Hotel Pull and tug I promise I don't believe I'll help you regret it Lessons from the Past The rear car teacher I want to live and eat with you Until you give me the compensation You don't have any shame Oh, that's right. How did you get in? Grandpa Xiao asked me to come here Go Go Go Your grandpa's phone number Hello grandfather Why did you let him live with me? You young people Cultivate some feelings I think the boy is good It's good for you too. Just for compensation Don't care about me at all Grandpa, I have lived to such an old age. Can't you see what you young people are doing? this matter Ok, deal Zhou Hai, you are really good at this. How do you coax? I went to see Grandpa Xiao just to ask him How can I get compensation? He arranged for me to live in. You can live in it if you want. There must be principles. Hi, there is food and shelter here. There are also beautiful women It's much better than my leaky house. And even if you demolish my house Be I can live here forever. You, hurry up Our neighbors all received compensation. Only I didn't get it I can only trouble Mr. Xiao to support me. That family is also undergoing normal demolition Why do you want triple compensation? My house is in the center of town You can't get around our house. Determined by geographical location Otherwise, why are houses in the city more expensive than those in the community? You are making trouble Nonsense 2 Rogue It doesn 't matter Mr. Xiao When do you want to demolish my house? When will you dismantle it? Can we go on a trip? Don't hey Don't go. Hey Mr. Xiao, Mr. Song don't want Well , this breakfast is so small Isn't that enough for me? This is my breakfast Eat it yourself Um Mr. Zhang's craftsmanship is pretty good. Zhou Hua, let's have a good talk I will give you compensation Give you more compensation But triple the compensation is absolutely not allowed. My bottom line is three times the compensation I don't agree to this either. point Then we'll just waste time like this Hey, wait for me, Mr. Xiao. Zhou Huaian, what on earth are you going to do? This is my office Please go out Otherwise I'll leave Kid Do not bother me I was entrusted by Grandpa Xiao. Come and help you So that you don't get cheated again you Are you willing to stay here? good Mr. Xiao is not well. The land in Zhoujia Village is now adjusted and planned Prices have skyrocketed What? This news is too sudden. Why is there no sound at all? I do not know We have already taken over the land. It's all the fault of that stubborn person named Zhou Huaian If it weren't for his reluctance to sign us Our project wouldn't have been delayed for so long without reason. Xiaojie, stop talking Why can't Mr. Xiao say that? That kind of person should be arrested and beaten up. See if he dares to ask for the lion's mouth. He even dared to ask for three times the compensation. I look at him It's just that I'm obsessed with money. I'm sorry, Mr. Yang. I didn't know you had guests here. Why don' t you go to the airport first? Zhu Han, did you know about the cell phone replacement? I don't have any money Don't talk nonsense You don't know such an important thing. So it seems The triple compensation is just in line with the current plan. I originally thought you were a chicken eater I didn't expect you to be the one calculating. Xiaozong Whatever you say Anyway, the land planning has already lost. I will pay compensation Should you give it to me ? dream I will only pay the original price for compensation. have to You don't have a cent. Boy, you are so angry that you have lost your mind. I'll go out first Others have rules It's so hot. It's so hot. oops It's so embarrassing. There is a guest in the president's office I still yelled like that Then my image is gone. Secretary Qian, where's my tea? Hey, this guest The water is already boiled I'll bring it to you now young I just heard you talking about Zhou Huai in Mr. Xiao's office I get angry when I secretary mention him. This guest And me I won't hide it from you. This Zhouhuan Our company Obviously, we have taken over the land in Zhoujia Village He was reluctant to sign Why do you want triple compensation? Do you think he is too much? Yeah, that's too much. Why should I suffer him? What if I suffer him? Hey I will help you beat him. a ha ha ha Thank you for your visit What are you laughing at? Um it's okay no problem Money is fine. You know what my relationship with Mr. Xiao is? What's the relationship with Mr. Xiao? Heart Always reminding me that you look like Zhang Xiaoli I was going to tell you this Please don't pass it on. Mr. Xiao really said that Don't worry, I swear I won't spread it. Okay, I'll tell you. Your boss Xiao and I are in a secret relationship. It's been a long time But Still refused to make it public But come today. It is to advise him not to interrupt the child. I'm sorry too. Never interrupt your child. impossible I am Mr. Xiao's secretary. How come I don't know this? That's right. Because we are mysterious I have always lived with Grandpa Xiao In the Xiao Family Old House He would come back to live in the old house every once in a while. No, this is not right either. Mr. Xiao said before He doesn't want to fall in love now. Why That's because he has me. He said those words were just excuses to the outside world. And now he's pregnant Please help me persuade him not to abort the child. I beg you Please, please. Ah, okay, okay, okay. I see But I am just a small secretary of Mr. Xiao I don't know if he will listen to me. fine I'm leaving first. correct Mr. Xiao You still owe me 5 million Remember to ask for it for me. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Be Mr. Xiao's man You really don't cherish Oh, that's right. What's his name? Xiao can't drink Xiao Han What are you doing? pretty Mr. Xiao, you can't drink now. Xiaoqin, if you want to drink coffee, go make it yourself Why are you stealing mine? In short You can't drink it now I'm thirsty now I drank first. what Xiao happened Zuo Your boyfriend just told me Talked about your things What boyfriend? My boyfriend The guy who just sat in your office Isn't he your boyfriend? He told me everything about you. What did he tell you? He said you are in an underground relationship now He also said that he now lives in the old house Every once in a while I'll go to his house to find him. He came this time I'm telling you not to get rid of the baby in your belly. Say you are pregnant This damn Zhou Hualan is a scoundrel It ruined my reputation Mr. Xiao What does this have to do with Zhou Huaan? You were cheated by him. He is Zhou Huaian He came to discuss compensation. He is Zhou Huaian Then he told me these things Of course they are all fake How can he be like this? OK OK Don't be angry, Xiaoqian He's just an asshole. Call him first. Hello Wife, how is my child ? Zhou Huaian, do you think you are humorous? What do you have for me? Why do you want to bully Xiaotian? He said it to my face. Can't I just tease him? Zhou Huaian You're just an asshole Hi , would you like to try one? oh Um Is it delicious? Did you make it yourself? right Do you want to buy it? It's so delicious, of course I have to buy it Loud noise Please wait Looks like a little girl giving gold But this ingredient is worth 30 million Explains huge potential Suitable for all tastes Ask this girl if she's willing to sell it. Hello, my name is Zhou Huaian I would like to ask if you can sell this recipe? Um My name is Su Xinmeng This is what my mother taught me. Worthless She usually comes out to set up a stall to make money But she's sick now. Today is my first day to set up a stall This shouldn't be sold. How about this? I'll help you invest in a store You come here to be the store manager This way, I can also cure your mother's illness. No, no, no I'm sure I won't do well. Why don't you believe me? But I think what you cook is really delicious. If you want to open a store Business will be booming. A liar Well, really no need thank you Secretary Qian, take this contract and ask for an explanation. Mr. Xiao, you won't really agree to him. What are the conditions for the compensation of Sanwei? There is no way Push it this way Our losses will continue to grow Since he knew about the land planning in advance Maybe he has a special channel. Why not take this opportunity to build a good relationship? Xiao Ming understands Miss Hello Secretary Chen Zhou Huan I have sent you the demolition contract. You take the time to sign Yes, that's the price I had in mind. When will the good money arrive? 10% will be credited to your account this afternoon The rest will have to wait until tomorrow. OK, no problem I'll send you the key in two days. Oh, please help me persuade Yueqin Don't let her abort the baby. Zhou Huaian, you are a gangster Song Xinmeng, do you want to treat your mother's illness? Yes I do I have 500,000 here It should be enough to treat your mother . Uh, I plan to invest in opening a store You come here to be the store manager what do you think What you said is true I'll take a shower first. Please think carefully about a contract. Wait until I come back. Do you want to sign? Simon, are you sure? Do you have a girlfriend No, what's wrong? Then I can't be considered as being supported by you Then I agree What else? What do you mean I support you? You came here to work for me. You have to pay me back the money you earned from negativity. I thought these were just your excuses. This is clearly written in the contract. I lent your mother 500,000 yuan for medical treatment Equivalent to bank interest I will invest in a store You invested in the company with your position as store manager and recipes. You have to pay me back the money you earn slowly. I did not understand But thank you anyway. I agree Okay, that's good. I'll transfer the money to you now By the way, you don't need to continue setting up the stall today. Take your mother to see a doctor as soon as possible Then find the time to choose a suitable store ah good Then I'll clean up the stall now. Is it He still holds the war symbol in his hand 30 million soldiers This National Security Bureau released Just took the money and ran away Yeah, it's okay. The land was finally taken My project can be started Cheers to the children Handsome How can I drink this? So much wine? Because I am happy I got the land. The project is ready to start You can't drink so much alcohol. not good for health Why do you want to take it back from me? you Although he usually helps me out Still bullying me But he's all about money For compensation Xiao Yuxin How do you know that Du Hengan doesn't like you? Maybe it's the social status of both of you. The gap is too big He doesn't like me How could he take the money and run away? I let him live in my house. Doesn't he understand my feelings? Is this drunken truth? Still talking nonsense Forget it, let's send him back to his room. Tomorrow he wakes up He will become the CEO of the real estate company again. You drank too much I'm not leaving. I'll take you back. No, no, I didn't leave. I'm in so much pain last night real ah Zhou Wen, why are you here? me Yesterday I'll take you back to the bedroom. You just hold my hand and won't let me go Didn't I give you money? Why are you coming back? I have no place to live I can only continue to stay at your house. Don't worry, this will happen. I will definitely be responsible for you Don't touch me I don't need you to be responsible You, you get out of here Okay, I'll go out first. You Zhou Hanhan left as soon as she said she would Do you like me? I know Yuexi I shouldn't have done that to you when you were drunk. But you are so beautiful III can't help it I tell you Don't mention what happened last night. If you still want to live here in the future You must follow my rules Okay, I'll agree to any condition you give me. As long as you give me a chance I will definitely give it to you Oh, there is Last night was just an accident We're not in that relationship . It won't happen again. correct Housework and cooking, you say? Uh, wait a minute, I'll take a call. If you are willing to pay compensation Already prepared You and I need to transfer the money. I'm not convenient now Is this afternoon okay? I'll have to work later. I'll give you half an hour. The bank downstairs of the disappeared group Yueqin, look at this I just happened to be going to the company go together Okay, but why don't you take a rest today? After all, you were so tired last night Shut up, nothing happened last night Secretary Qian, I've got you. I still have some time There's a traffic jam on the road Let me get there in half an hour. He was late instead. Zhou Huaian Pei Chen, why are you here? Laotiaoba Lao Zhou It's been more than two years since we graduated. Almost gone Are you here to apply for a room? no I'm waiting for someone here Just do some business Oh, business. So where did you make your fortune recently? I freelance Start after a while Lao Zhou, I'm your old classmate, so I'm talking to you nicely. Like this one, they are all second-generation rich. There are big capitals behind them. It's not okay to be like you. Find a class and take it seriously It's not like you cooperate with me. It's only been two years since I graduated that I joined the group Became the team leader this This Xiao Group is a big company. I'm telling you What about the Xiao Group? But it is the first enterprise in Jiangzhou Do you know Mr. Xiao? But our Jiang Zong is number one This is a plus for me Nothing is wrong. real or fake I have seen Xiao Ruiqi He's not such a good talker. And he's very cold Can Heige still deceive you? No, I'll tell you. He is also divided Like me, the future senior executive of the company He is still very cute and kind to me. a ha ha ha This gentleman Here you need to show your reimbursement voucher again See? This is the benefit of a big company. Loan this Eat, Drink and Have Fun Everything is reimbursed. Yes, the employee benefits of 12 Group are indeed good. This gentleman Your business is done. What business do you need to handle? I need to make a deposit transfer But I need to wait for someone now He's on his way Coming Soon Extraordinary, let me tell you. This is generally less than 500,000 business There is no need to come to the bank headquarters to handle this. Your mobile bank Mobile banking can do it. If you really can't I can teach you no, I 'm fine I know the amount I need to process Mobile banking cannot process Damn, we are old classmates. You are sticking chicken feathers in my flat points What are you pretending to be? I know you are a face-loving person. But you care about face You can't delay the salesperson's work. It doesn't matter You've seen a lot of people like this. There's not much money in my pocket But always come to the bank to pretend to be rich Pei Chen, you have completed your business. Don't you need to go back? Don't you want to work? You don't have to worry about this. I'm talking to our manager. Very good relationship This is a little late This, this, this doesn't matter Oh, that's right. But I want to see How big is your big sum? What does it mean This gentleman If there is no business to be handled I have other clients I don't have time to play house with you here. what happened This gentleman said someone would come to transfer the money. Handle deposit business at the same time But I waited for a long time but no one came I think they are playing tricks on us. I see I said this gentleman If you really come here for business Please make an appointment in advance. Don't let our salesperson work here with you. Wait a minute I didn' t tell him to wait for me here. And his attitude towards me Why This is how women treat their guests Zhou Huaian Could you please not be in This is embarrassing, okay? Hey, she's a girl. What are you doing here? This is all your fault. yes I'm just going to apologize for this matter. I'm here on business. I can't come here to feel wronged. Pei Chen, what does this have to do with you? You have to join in the fun here Be careful not to lose your job, I tell you. Zhou Hai I'll tell you nicely We have graduated for more than two years. You know what you are doing now. And I have become a senior executive of Xiao Group That's right Look at yourself. Do you have 200 yuan? Still come to the bank to do business Can you take out 10,000 yuan from your pocket? I think the security guard should just throw it out. Someone apologized to me. I feel sick Sorry , I am late Secretary Qian, How come you are here welcome Does Secretary Qian still recognize me? Xiao Pei, we met at the annual meeting. I even toasted you. Hello, but I have something urgent to do. Please make way. snort You finally came You'll be late a little longer I'm about to be thrown out by them. Feel sorry I really didn't know the traffic jam was so serious. I'll transfer the money to you now But I have to put down the bank deposit Keep your money here I don't worry at all This gentleman We were wrong just now. Please don't take it to heart What's the use of apologizing now? I will suggest to Mr. Xiao about the subsequent payment of the project To avoid this from happening again Or find a more formal store Mr. Zhou is Mr. Xiao's Mr. Sun I will tell the group Mr. Zhou's opinion truthfully. Mr. Zhou I apologize for our behavior just now. Please We are all adults Be responsible for your words and actions I wish you a bright future in the Xiao Group. ah Oh, not this. Zhou Hai What is that, Brother Zhou? I just fell asleep. This doesn't understand What the hell is going on here? Otherwise it is like this You raise your hands Just be my butt. Employees of the Shaw Group Aren't you supposed to be at work at this time? How can you be here now? I hope in an hour I can see your written explanation Zhou Hua Wait for me Is there anything you need Mr. Xiao is here Let me ask you How are you going to use this money? Of course, I deposited it in the bank and earned interest. What's going on? Or buy some shareholders. Mr. Xiao wants me to give you some shares Then give you some dividends Hey The money you just gave me You want to cheat back now? Who cheated you of your money? Our Xiao Group is a very high-quality enterprise Many people want to invest but it's too late. I don't believe you. I just can't bear to pay the triple compensation. What company's shares Even if I have shares What I said doesn't count. Is cutting necessary? But you can get dividends. You can't grasp such a good opportunity. You really don' t know good people. Whatever you say Anyway, wait until I marry your Xiao Zong home. I still care about that little bit of stock It's you If you don't respect me No monthly salary Deduction of wages Zhou Huaian, you are really daydreaming How could Mr. Xiao be interested in you? Mr. Xiao and Mr. Zhou Huaian He disagrees with the investment. He said he wanted to marry you. And they deduct your salary If you don't agree, then don't agree. Why Oh, Xiao Qian. I want to tell you something private. I've been a little scared at home these days. Or you move over here I'll eat with Mr. Xiao Can I Of course you can I have always regarded you as my own sister. So we can commute together. We can chat on the way Well, I'll give you half a day off. Go home and clean up. You take half a day off I do. I do. There are many plants at home. Don't you dare do anything excessive to me? Mr. Zhou's Dream thank you The doctor said my mother is still in the early stages It can also be cured If it's too late, it will be dangerous. She is in the treatment room now. I've always wanted to thank you in person. You are welcome By the way, please stop calling me Mr. Zhou. My name is Zhou Huaian You can call me Brother Huai'an It's up to you. These are some nutritional supplements I bought for my aunt. Wait until Auntie's condition gets better. It can replenish the body Thank you, Brother Huai'an Sit down first, I'll wash some fruit for you. good Wang Shao I have been following my elder brother Zhou Huaian these days. Found that he seemed to live in Xiao Yueqing's house at the same time He is also very close to a girl named Song Xingmeng. I knew they got together. I didn't expect that Zhou Huaian was still a scumbag. Playing both sides But this way we can deal with him Where is Song Xinmeng? Your Majesty, according to my secret investigation Song Xinmeng's family is very poor. His mother has no money for medical treatment. But not long ago, his mother was suddenly taken to the hospital. Now he is taking care of his mother in the hospital. It must be the money Zhou Huaian gave Let's go to the bathhouse. Let Zhou Huaian know the consequences of offending me Huai'an Brother Try this peach. Very delicious good Mm, it's delicious. Teacher He is right. Uh, have you told your mother about opening a store? He agreed to it. After my mother recovers from her illness I will go to work for my brother in Huai'an Oh, no need Do you eat peaches? Who is Su Qingmeng Is there something wrong with me? Your mother fainted. In the emergency room now Come with me to sign How did you faint? who sons Who's doctor This doesn' t look like the way to the emergency room. Song Xingmeng I'm not a doctor at all I'm here to catch you today. See where you're going. Who sent you here? Otherwise I'll send you to jail. Big Brother, Spare Me Wang Xi sent me here He asked me to knock Miss Sun unconscious and take her to the parking lot. Thank you for your information Then you should have a good sleep. Although there is more than one syringe. Brother Huang En Simon, someone is trying to harm you. I knew you would come to rescue me Okay, then you pretend to be knocked out. Go to the parking lot and catch that Wang Xi Use this to stun him Give him a good lesson and leave I'll listen to you What are you standing there for? She is Song Xinmeng Zhou Huaian's girlfriend When did Xinmeng become my girlfriend? No, I can't hug you now. She looks pretty good. I don't know if I've been played by that kid Zhou Huaian. Never mind. I'm happy first. After finishing, you will also feel refreshed You are shameless It's not the case that you How come you didn't get knocked out? Wang Xi, how come you don't even recognize me? Don't you hate me the most? I'm with you now Why don't you resist? It's you, Zhou Huai How dare you appear in front of me? Didn't you always want me to come find you? Why don't you resist? you What did you inject me with? The syringe was found on your brother. How come it's not a drug? You didn't ask clearly You give me an injection this Hey this Oh, this Cui Qinjiang If it weren't for your Xiaolu drug, Cui Qin would have harmed people. This is your own fault. Don' t come over here. Is it ok? Go fast Ahhh I can not stand it any more The desire for destruction is terrible I originally wanted him to be like his henchman. Sleep I didn't expect him to be so evil. Well, this time I'll teach him a lesson. Good night, brother This time thanks to you Otherwise I'll be in danger. well Don't say that. I'm the one who caused you to be in danger. I should be the one who is sorry Good night, brother I like you Simon, we are not suitable. Brother Huan An You saved my mother. Now it saves me again I just like you Simon We're really not suitable. You are still young You will meet a better man later. I'm nice to you just because I think your food is delicious No other meaning Brother Wang An Do you think I'm a casual woman? I have no dreams It's normal for you to have fantasies about love But we 're really not suitable. I have something else to do I go first You should go back quickly. Mommy must be worried if she can't find you Huai'an Brother I will definitely be your girlfriend Didn't Xiaoqin say that I would cook from now on? How do you do it yourself? you Zhou Han, what are you doing? no I thought you were Xiao Yuexin I really didn't mean it. You bastard you are despicable You're a pervert, what's wrong with Xiaojie? Is Zhou Hua still bullying you? Don't be sad I will definitely host it for you Zhou Hanan, why do you bully Xiaoqian? I didn't. How did I know she would be home? I thought it was you Hey , what do you mean by think it's me? Is it me you want to hug? We all already have that. Excuse me Wait a minute, Mr. Xiao You are men Don't listen to his nonsense. I felt sorry for him because he had no place to live. But he just said Oops, you heard wrong We have nothing I'm not angry about that. Not Mr. Xiao You didn't tell me What's the meaning Just handsome Just keep it secret from me You save the money What do you mean Is this all my fault? I didn't have that fault. What Wang Xing streaked on the street Now arrested okay, I get it Zhou Haian, did you do all this? He wanted to harm people. I found it Besides, I don' t know that person is Cui Xinyao He committed suicide It has nothing to do with me Never mind. This is fine. Give him some lessons So that he won't disturb my work. He keeps bothering you. Why didn't you tell me ? Is it useful to tell you? Besides, why should I tell you? Do you want to control my life? I didn't mean that. It's just that Wang Xi's methods are rather despicable Am I afraid you'll suffer? You are the one who is more vicious. Being a nail house waiting for a good price Taking advantage of others Now you're still bullying Xiao Qian well Stop arguing. Now it makes me panic It's better not to do this Hey Xiaoqin Don't leave, let him go. Where am I going? My home is gone. You're leaving me on the streets? random You can't live here anyway. Xiao Xueqin Don't regret it Brother Huaan Why are you here this late Why are you wandering around outside alone? How dangerous! I want to go out and look at the store Open the shop early Can I pay you back sooner? There's no rush for that money this late You better go back quickly. Security brother, can you take me home? Brother Chaoyang I'm home now Then you hurry up Dad will go to the hospital to take care of your mom tomorrow. Won't you go up and sit down? I won't go up I have to find a hotel to stay overnight. Why don't you go home? I had a quarrel with my family. No The house was demolished No place to live Then you can live in my house. My mother is in the hospital I have to go to the hospital to accompany her again There's no one at my house. Oh well What's wrong with this? Let's go Let's go Brother Huaan I have been taking care of my mother in the hospital during this period The house is a bit messy Don't dislike that. Oh , it's okay. I don't hate Please take a seat. Don't you have to go to the hospital to take care of your mother later? I told my mom I won't go to the hospital tonight. Wife, we can 't do this. We are just friends I'll add a little debt relationship at most I'll help you with that. I just think your food is delicious. I have no other meaning I hope you are cold Be quiet. We really can't do this. Is Xinmeng not pretty enough? Good night, brother Not Simba You are beautiful Every man will be moved when he sees you But I already have a girlfriend You lied to me and told me tomorrow that you don't have a girlfriend. II don't I don't know how to explain it to you But I already have another woman I must be responsible for her. Brother Huaan I don't care about these Is it because I am not good enough? Why don't you want to accept me? No, okay? The girl I like Although we often quarrel But I know she She is a cold-faced person with a warm heart. You should go to the hospital to take care of your mother. I go first Good morning, brother I understand. Brother Huaan likes women who are cold on the outside but warm on the inside. I will change from today Why is there no news from Zhou Han? I won't really be sleeping on the streets, will I? Hello Qin Anmeng Wang Xi I'm fine Don't worry about it Yuqing, give up Zhou Huaian. He is not worthy He has another woman outside Song Xinmeng My people I saw Zhou Huaian go to Sun Xinmeng's home Wang Xi You think I would believe such a simple plot to sow discord? Believe it or not You think Zhou Huaan is a good man But people like him who suddenly became rich How can I resist the temptation of beauty? Su Xinmeng, do you have time? I want to talk to you about Zhou Pei'an You are the girl that Huang An likes. I know you The female president of Xiao Group The Xiao Family's Daughter Miss, you are such a high and mighty person. Why are you looking for Huai'an Brother It's really intimate. Zhou Huaian and I are boyfriend and girlfriend What's the problem I came to him for? Little sister I have detected your thoughts. relative Your death Yuxi Why are you here? Zhou Huaian, didn't you say you would be responsible for me? Now he's having an affair with another woman What do you mean, Yuxi? you misunderstood I'm just friends with him. Huai'an Brother You helped me in my most difficult time. You saved me again yesterday. I will definitely marry you in this life Ye Qin, don't you have any work to do in your company? You go back to the company first. Seamus, your mother is still in the hospital. Need your care You should go back to the hospital soon. ah Zhou Heng, I don't need you to please everyone here. From now on, you are not allowed to see Song Xinmeng Otherwise Don't come to see me Yuexi Huai'an Brother I'm going to the hospital first. I have to choose surveillance in the afternoon Seamus This is how to do Boss, are you selling this shop? Sell it, of course. What business do you want to buy? I want to open a snack bar How do you sell this store? The snack bar is located in the store At least 1 million. 1000000 This is too expensive I asked around the shops The highest is only 600,000 Around 600,000 Then go ask someone else. Whatever business I do in my current position will be booming Boss, can you give me a discount? cheap Hahahaha Cheap bar 3,000 cheaper I' m here to buy your shop How can you be such a hooligan? Why don't you ask about this movie? The shops are all mine Whether you want to rent or buy, you need my approval. Otherwise you won't be able to do any business. Hey, let me go, save me. Help! Let me go, save me. Who do you want to do? Hum, you dare to ruin my good thing Brother Juan Otherwise, forget it. Let's go Don't be afraid of scum like him. He won't repent unless he is taught a lesson. Hit me, do you know who my boss is? My boss is Master Wang's follower. You wait for me No one here can protect you today. Even if Wang Xi is here, it's useless. You wait Don't leave. I'll call my boss. Why go I'm going to teach you a lesson now How could I let you go so easily? Boss Someone is bullying me. This is the kid Help me teach him a lesson. stop It's you, Chu Huai What's wrong It's me, Wang Xin. Did you sleep well in the hospital last time? Zhou Huian This is a misunderstanding You let him go first. Misunderstand Last time you and Wang Xi attacked Xing Meng in the hospital Today this shameless dog Want to bully Xingmeng again How do we solve these two problems? This shop is our compensation to Miss Song. And make sure this doesn't happen again. Okay, one more. Let this blind dog Kneel down and apologize to Ximu I see fast Sorry, both of you. It is my fault I don't know Taishan Please forgive me, both of you. Sorry for what? Anything else to say? No, let's go. Don't let me see you again Did you hear that? Boss, who is this kid? Such kid? a good shop I gave him to them. A demolisher Fortunately, I met someone from the Xiao family. Just tell Xiao Rizhi what happened today. When Xiao Erqing and Zhou Huaen had a misunderstanding Our opponents all harbor resentment The Xiao family will not reissue it . Understand my wife I will tell Xiao Yuanxun about this right now I gave you a chance I didn't expect that he was still entangled with Song Xinmeng never mind Just think that I, Xiao Yueqing, must be blind to like you Why is Yueqing so angry? Is it that guy Zhou Fanan? I'm sending this to you because you messed with another woman again. why is it you again What are you doing here? I am also a shareholder of the company. Why can't you come to the company? Tell me what's going on Ye Qian, I want to invite you to dinner. Anyway, Zhou Huaian is not worthy of you. Do not have time Yueqing I really like you I have liked you since I was a child As long as you marry me I will return the shares of Xiao Group to you. Okay, I promise you. Really Then I will decide the gift now. Mr. Xiao You're not really going to go to the Masonic dinner with Wang Xi, are you? Of course not. Qi Tian Delayed You Monday is my wake-up call Boss! Do you want to test Zhou Huaian? Will he stop you? That's right I just want to test whether Zhou Huaian's heart is Okay, the store issue has been resolved. The funds were lost. Huai'an Brother Thank you, I will not let you down. Take good care of the store business Oh, don't be so tired. I believe you Zhou Huaian, you are still entangled with Song Xingmeng Mr. Xiao has already agreed to Wang Xi's invitation They are going to Linjiang Hotel for dinner in the evening. What good I see Thank you, Secretary Qian Huai'an Brother This must be Wang Xi's conspiracy Although I really want to be with you But I also don't want Wang Xi to hurt Xiao Yeqing Go save him now. Mr. Wang has brought his stuff. The Qin-promoting drug that Zhou Huaian registered for me last time I lost face in Jiangzhou now I also want Xiao Yueqing to feel the Qin-stimulating potion Your Majesty, rest assured This time the medicine was imported from abroad The drug effect is not that great As long as you download the wine Two hours later Xiao Yueqin will obey your orders Okay, you go down first . No order from me Don't come in to disturb me It's Master I didn't expect that they would resort to such despicable means. It's okay, I'm here There will definitely be no surprises for Ye Qing this time. Hey, Grandpa I am now at the door of the private room of Linjiang Restaurant Ye Qing and Wang Xi are having dinner here I'm worried that Wang Xi will harm Yueqing. You send some men over to ambush us. This time, we will try to bring disgrace upon Wang Xi. Huai'an, you must take good care of Yueqing in the future I only have this precious granddaughter. You can't let him get into an accident. good Don't worry, Grandpa Xiao I will definitely protect Yueqing Xiao Yuqi Forget it This is also a lesson for you See if you dare to come out now. Yueqin, you are here, come and sit Yuqing, the rattan wine I brought from home It's my collection Let's taste it together I do not drink Yuqing, I know you are in a bad mood. So let's drink some wine and relax. I said I don't drink Yueqing, you are in a bad mood I'm here to enlighten you. You don't drink. Why did you hurt him? Excuse me I'm going to the bathroom What the hell are you pretending to be, little girl? I must wait till tonight The young lady was drugged by someone else Let's go in quickly It's okay, we've already recorded it. Not in a hurry You are not in a hurry, but I am Let's go and arrest Wang Qi I'll go in first You wait for me outside Signal Bring your people Wang Qi caught them all in one fell swoop Yueqin, I had a bad attitude just now Since we don't drink I poured you a glass of water. Drink some water Thanks Yueqin, we have been together since childhood childhood Also sweetheart I have liked you since I was a child How is Zhu Huaian similar to you? Why do you like him? I don't want to talk about him now Okay, let's not talk about it. Yu Qing, we will get married in the future I will return the shares of Xiao Group to you. I will only be good to you from now on I won't have anything to do with other women. Wang Xi Save your sweet talk for the judge. Zhou Huaan, why did you come in? I didn't invite you. Why are you coming here? Hum, you treat my girlfriend to dinner I drugged my girlfriend. What happened to me coming here? What can you do to me? Zhou Haian, you are talking nonsense What who is your girlfriend? What drug? Xiao Yuqi, you are such a stupid woman What kind of person is Wang Xi? You don' t know He drugged the wine and the water. If I hadn't arrived in time Drink it all What There is medicine in the water That's right, Xiao Xueqin You think I really want to marry you? You're just a piece of trash . tonight I'll let you talk about it. Wang Xin, you are despicable Ye Qing Don't be mad at this guy. not worth it No one can bully you when I'm here Zhou Huaian, what are you talking about? Today, everyone outside is mine. Tonight I I'll let you watch how I play him. Zhou Huaian Today I will let you know the consequences of offending Mr. Wang Wang Xi You dare to touch Zhou Huaian Our Little family will not let you go. Xiao Yuqing, you think too much When I play with you tonight I'll let him record it. By then, the Xiao family will win their own lives. I'll suppress this matter. Zhou Huaian I'll break your legs . Becoming a sinner Wang Xi, you are really whimsical Do you think I would come to you alone? What do you mean Get started Zhou Huaian, don't brag All the people outside are mine now. What do you have to fight me? Huai 'an Run away, I'm here Even if I die I won't let Wang Xi succeed so quickly. Mr. and Miss Zhou The fish outside have been cleaned up. We have temporarily occupied the matter now good Take him down There's no point staying here. Mr. Zhou and Mr. Xiao I was coerced Wang Xi forced me to do this. To kill Secretary He Zhou Huaian, I give up. If I were the heir to the royal family What can you do to me? I have recorded the video of you drugging Yuezhi I will contact the girls you have framed over the years. Identify together Do you think you have the support of the Xiao family? Can your Wang family cross with you? Zhou Haian, I admit defeat this time Give me the video I will return the shares of Xiao Group to him. I'll give him a lot of money. Zhou Haian can't let him go Even if Xiao's shares don't want I won't let you get away with it. Don't worry, nothing unexpected will happen. I will spend at least seven or eight years in prison. Keep seven or eight years It's easy to bring down the Wang family of your antique flower family I can't do it anymore Please Please Spare me, I'll give you money. I have many more products Please let me go let's go Take him down You let me go Open me What medical profession? Let's go home I'll help you, Mr. and Mrs. I think there seems to be something wrong with the lady's health. I can help you No I'll give you some money to eat. Thank you for your kindness I don't want money Xiao Yueqing's tribulation is not yet complete Zhou Huaian's ability has not yet reached the level Hey, let me help you. Next time we meet This bead I will give it back to you But you should forget about what happened during this period. Oh, if you don't want to give it to me, then I won't give it to you. Aunt Hey, can you give me something to eat? Auntie, do you have anything to eat? Give me some You sell this good stuff Give me something to eat. Elderly This is the bag I just bought. Still warm for you Young man, you must be rewarded for your good deeds. Hey, I Hey, I'll give this to you. Oh, no need There's really no need to hold it. Holding What is this Mission accomplished hahahaha Why is this beggar so crazy? But these glass beads are pretty nice. I finally got my salary today Mom's medical expenses finally received a promise Hello uncle Uncle is talking to you Come come come Tweet What are you doing? Chirp Give the money to Chuchu Tweet You went gambling again. You know what's going on in our family. I won't give you money. My salary is used to pay for my mother's medical treatment. Less nonsense money Uncle, please bring it to me. My salary uncle This is the money for my mother's medical treatment. You give it back to me Give it back to me, get out of here Your bastard bone It's better if mom dies snort Save yourself from wasting money This money is for my uncle. Uncle will definitely make a comeback The uncle who will definitely make a comeback But my mother is your biological sister. How can you say such a thing? Give me back my money Bring it back to me Bring it back to me My my money My money My money My money This is the money for my mother's medical treatment. You stinky boy Ruined my good deeds Let you and your damn mother Yinchuan go to hell Huanhuan, wake up Don't be lazy with your newly paid salary Get up and work ah your head Such a small fish is worth 5 million How can I see the real price of this item? Where are you looking? I'm not Xiaocao, you misunderstood me. Do you still believe me? I will blow your eyes out. Grass you shut up This partner comes over I'll change my clothes and go pick them up. It's Xiao Song I looked at all the items the day before yesterday. True or false Was he hit on the head? Obtained the Eye of the Gods This is the heir to the antique giant Lin's treasure Lin Xiaotian came to the store to discuss cooperation Everyone is welcome welcome You are welcome It won't be long We are all family Lin Xiaotian talks about business You should respect it. Oh, have some respect. Hahaha Your crappy shop is about to start working hard. Now you are begging me to buy it. Can you please understand the hint? Yin Xiaotian's collaboration I just hope that through Lin's treasures Rent the treasure of the store to shareholders To pass the qualification review of the Antiques Association Why should I lend it to you? Your store doesn't have anything decent. So how can I agree? Ah baby Hehehehe right Come and see him Is there anything valuable here? It's Mr. Lin. Hum, I think this is just a room full of rubbish. Nothing of value. This store should be closed as soon as possible. Are you blind? This vase from the Jianmin Zhengde period There is also this authentic painting on the Ju Ran box These are all priceless treasures. Where the hell did this little thing come from? Go smash my mouth Okay, Mr. Lin What the hell is he pretending for? Wang Long, you are Mr. Xiao's population How can you help him? People die for money Birds die for food Who is calling this Mr. Lin? Served to us Stop it Mr. Xiao, I'm fine. Ni Xiaotian, you dare to hit my employees in my store Are you too arrogant? The two of us I'm getting married soon. We will soon be a family. This employee has no eyes I'm just teaching you a lesson. Don't worry, I won't agree to you. This shop was not opened by my grandfather. I will definitely bring him back to life , right? Um Big words Antique auction in three days This is your only chance. If you can't grasp Then you will be disqualified. You don't need to mention it relative I will definitely watch it Really? Then we'll see . Walk Are you OK Don't worry, I'm here Lin Xiaotian's dirty idea will never come true fine Could it be that you, a tiny person, can also appraise treasures? Or do you want to participate? Can you help me prepare for the meeting? Mr. Xiao, I can never mind I'll figure it out myself. You clean the store. Come with me tomorrow After the meeting Mr. Xiao has always taken good care of me. Now that I have the wings of the sky This time I must help Mr. Xiao through the crisis The good money has been deposited into your card. Are you sure you are shareholder No. 1? okay, I get it Although Wang Long and Lin Xiaotianzi But he is not greedy for money at all It seems that this news is true Good must Yo Your loyal dog Why didn't I follow you? Didn't I swear last night? Do you want to live and die together? Ah funny Zhou Hengan, this coward, didn't even dare to show up You're not afraid, are you? The competition at the auction is about who can bid for the treasure Who is coming? It seems that our beautiful lady Xiao is determined to win Now I declare The fifth Zhongzhou auction officially begins Below is our No. 1 Antique Bronze Sale Starting price: 1 million Each increase in price shall not be less than 100,000 Start now 1 million Little Miss This is the first treasure. You are so anxious very nice 2 million Lin Xiaotian Choose which antique can be my sin and your official 2.1 million 3000000 Little beauty I advise you to come to my room tonight. Women, don't be too strong. rest assured OK Waiting for you hahaha 3.1 million This lady bids 3.1 million 3.1 million first time 3.1 million The second and last time 300.7 million Ladies and gentlemen, please make an offer. 7 million 7 million The first time 7 million The second time 7 or 8 million 8008 million The first time 8 million Second 10 million 10 million This gentleman offered 10 million 12 million I read 12 million 15 million 15 million Ding Xiaotian, why do you always go against me? Do you know what this auction means to me? Look at this bone number 1. Excellent color I took a look. It is a rare treasure. How can I give it to you? My conscience will hurt. How are you? Very simple you and me Hahahaha 15 million first time Sorry, Xiao Zuo My mother went to pay for my mother's medical expenses and came late sit down 15 million second time Mr. Xiao This Qinglong beast is a modern replica Not worth the money at all Stop overthinking What nonsense This is personally appraised by the vice president of the Treasure Appraisal Association It's easy to get a prize This ivy beast Even if I lose everything I'm going to take a picture of it too. 1,600 Thank you Believe me Take a good look This bronze beast This color texture There are problems with the degree of aging. If you want to take a picture , take number 3. Before the 3rd Zhou Huaiyang He's just a loser in an antique shop. How come you know better than the experts? a ha ha ha I'm looking at you Do you really want to send him to your door? Ah , then I suggest you take number 3 directly That worthless explosion Go hahaha 15 million, is there anyone who wants to raise the price for the second time? Why Are you still following? If you don't follow me, it's really mine. 15 million third time group Believe me They must have teamed up to ask for a high price. Deliberately messing with you Make you bankrupt Don't be fooled by them. Enough, this is my last chance. I must send down the bronze beast Pass this qualification review 16 million 16 million this lady bid 16 million, is there anyone willing to raise the price? 1,6101,610 million Lin Xiaotian, why do you have to This beauty What's wrong with me? We are congratulating. Hahaha, that's it. You sleep with me I'll let you rest 16.1 million Second time 16.1 million Xiao Zuo You believe me Stop filming Really, don't take pictures anymore. Trust me this time We don't want this loneliness No. 1 anymore Zhou Haian, why do you care about me? Get out of here 16.1 million The third time: 17 million Mr. Xiao This lady bids 17 million 17 million First 17 million Second time 17 million Third time People call call Hahahaha Congratulations, I got it wrong. Ha ha ha ha What do you mean agreed I released the news on purpose. I didn't expect you to be fooled, haha ah You set up the UK yes Also found Too bad it's too late Guess 17 million is the limit of your funds jet we'll see what you're home ah baby oh This is called Yin Infinite Killing I think We don't have the strength to continue gambling. Somebody, bring him to my bed. Wait, Lin Xiaotian The auction is not over yet Group No. 3 Number 3 is a priceless treasure I think he will be saved tomorrow. Zhou Yao, you are making trouble You are now How can we identify which is the priceless bone? Hahaha This Queen No. 3 Circulated for a long time A priceless treasure Haha scared to death This number 3 is indeed popular It's really worthless. The auction houses are confirmed. How can it be false Xiaocao, believe me It only costs 300,000 yuan to take the photo This treasure is worth 100 million. Hum, one hundred million hasn't changed. Hahaha Can you please stop making trouble? Get out of here again I will send No. 3 300,000 This lady offered 300,000 Anyone want to raise the price? this Believe me Just this once 300,000 yuan for the first time The second time 300,000 the third time Achievement Hahaha congratulations congratulations Our President Xiao has photographed this domineering baby again You are such a big villain. Waiting for you in bed Hahahaha go down this Isn't this the Seoul Tripod from the Warring States Period? This weight This texture It is indeed the regulation of bronze ritual vessels in the Warring States Period wrong There are also inscriptions There is an inscription Oh my god, wouldn't that double the value? A few days ago The auction house sold an A bronze tripod from the Shang and Zhou dynasties with an inscription Opened a world worth 300 million yuan This tripod is indeed a treasure from the Warring States Period. But it is obviously a rational push And the inscriptions of the saved gameplay are clear It has high historical research significance and collection value. This is no longer the treasure of the store. Yes, it is a truly priceless treasure. Come show me Lin Xiaotian This is the wedding that Mr. Xiao and I signed. I am responsible Never got permission from Mr. Xiao Absolutely no contact if there is not Lin's Jewelry is gradually gaining popularity That's a fake Hahaha Lin Xian, the heir of the Lin family treasure Just treat the pearl as a relic. Since you still dare to question the auction house The professionalism of treasure appraisers This animal-eared danzhu is a genuine product certified by the auction house No possibility of fraud Thank you for your generosity I also need to tell our boss Xiao the real information. Mr. Xiao Why are you here? Are you laughing at my joke? Mr. Xiao No, after you dropped No. 3 It revealed the Warring States Period to clean up the three tribes Zhou Wen Do you think I'm stupid? You can cheat on anything Xiao Zuo, believe me This little top was really broken by you. If you don't believe me We'll go back to them to verify. oops Congratulations Mr. Xiao Congratulations Mr. Xiao Mr. Xiao has a sharp eye. I admire you These three groups can be cut together I am willing to pay 300 million yuan Oh, don't listen to him. I'll pay 350 million Give me give me give me give me Is this really a dream? It almost caused the treasure to be lost in the city. Thanks to you Only then can we see such a priceless treasure Yes Yes Yes Don't you believe me and I don't believe them? Really want to float Thank you for your praise. Thank you for your praise. I'm also lucky. Hum, that's enough. Um I'm talking about you How shameless! That old antique you bought The antiques inside don't count at all. I suggest Send him back I'm so anxious to escape. Lin Xiaotian, don't bully others by taking advantage of your power I am telling the truth Of course a treasure like this can only be mine. Look at that shabby antique shop in your house . Is it worthy? This tripod was sent by me, Xiao Yuqin. This means that this treasure is destined to be with me. Ren Xiaotian I know you're not convinced How about this? We each picked an antique If I win Just kneel down obediently Mr. Xiao apologized And presented 10 million If you win At your disposal good Come on then Zhou Han, we all won. Why do you still gamble? It's okay, I can see the tripod The rest is easy Gentlemen You can each choose one Starting price not exceeding 1 million You said this general jar is a rare treasure. He'll definitely win. I'll choose this general jar I choose this Tang Renyong How about this General 28 Universal Hahaha stinky loser I tell you My general jar is worth at least 8 million. You lost at most three or four million. This is the gentleman Hahaha I didn't say it, kid. This glaze is worth at least 12 million You win, sir. What's impossible? How could this broken pupa in this kid's hand be so expensive? He must have been playing some trick. Or maybe you were bribed by him? I represent Jiangzhou Auction House You should apologize to Jiangzhou Auction House me I'm not sorry. I was serious I think you should do more than just apologize to me. They should apologize to these two. I can't possibly apologize to them. The heir of the Lin family treasure did not expect Cheating, yeah I didn't expect that the heir of the Lin family treasure would do such a thing. This is what the Lin family heir looks like Lin's treasures are not much better I won't dare to do this again. OK There is 10 million in the card, take it. Lin Xiaotian The bet we just made Kneel down and apologize There is 10 million in the card sorry Mr. Xiao Send someone to check Get to our tent as soon as possible Can't let you down I miss you too much You wait for me This is not over yet Hahahaha, I will definitely take revenge Walk Amazing things Thank you You're welcome, Mr. Xiao. It's just a piece of cake Anyway Thank you again Sir, you are so young and have a keen eye for talent. Our Treasure Appraisal Association Willing to pay high salary We are hiring you to work in our treasure appraisal association. Mr. Xiao has done me a favor. I never swore I'm Mr. Xiao's employee all my life. Hey Zhou Haian what are you talking about Invitation from the Treasure Appraisal Association It is the honor of every treasure appraiser. Mr. Xiao, unless you fire me Otherwise I will work for you forever. I believe you won't treat me badly. Sir, please be careful. this is my name card Please accept Thank you . We'll take our leave. Let's go Zhou Han From now on, I'll leave this antique shop to you. No matter what decision you make in the future You all support Mr. Xiao, I am still young Lack of vision and experience You should find another master. I trust you But why did you suddenly become so powerful? Mr. Xie, maybe I have done too many good things. Good luck Forget it, it's real skill If you don't want to say it, Don't make up these lies to deceive me That's 1 million. It's your bonus. Nothing I go first No, I don't want to tell you. you Such an amazing man Hello Pregnant You worked so hard to earn so much money It cost a lot to treat my mother. Why It's your mom who's dragging you down. There's something I want to tell you. Say it Well, do you still remember your Aunt Chen? We are good sisters I got married not long ago She married into the Bai family A year later I gave birth to you You Chen Yi gave birth to a girl We ordered a doll for you. Kiss me now My biggest wish is to see you and Feifei get married mom That Bai Feifei woman is dressed up gorgeously I don't want to watch it at all And there may not be anyone who likes it Then you should bring back the person you like. Let me see You, Chen Yi, were a great beauty when you were young Her daughter must be pretty too. Hey, let's get in touch first. Mom, I'm not going to Huayang Are you going to piss me off to death? If you are a filial son You have to listen to me All right I have done my duty Mr. Xiao, I want to take a leave this weekend good Lele, how is your mother's illness? It's much better now Thanks for the bonus you gave me. Thank you. I should thank you You not only helped me save the antique shop And helped me earn 10 million By the way, why are you asking for leave? Is there anything I can do to help? It's okay, my mom insisted that I go on a blind date I don't want to go either But I am afraid that my mother's illness will relapse. okay, I get it Come on, bring more money. Make a good impression on the other person when you first meet him/her Mom, just have a meal. It won't cost much What do you know? First Date That will be your best memory. Enter the high-end restaurant Mom, that's a high-end restaurant. They're all lies. Expensive and comfortable Oh, I have booked the restaurant. You just don't eat it. The gift I prepared for Feifei is in the room. I'll bring it to her when I go there later. This high-end restaurant is so expensive Then I have to eat more. Spend less money Look at you, kid. Why Easy, right? Said it was very quiet Is this for a blind date? Forget it, I'll go sailing The bag filled with selfies is worth tens of thousands of yuan Looks like a little temper It's already New Year's Day Half an hour Why hasn't this moved yet? Brother Ouyang The one sitting over there is Duke Zhou . He always bullied me before And said I was not worthy of him Just like that poor loser Walk Teach him a lesson Zhou Huai This is my boyfriend. Lu Yang, CEO of Yangyang Real Estate Haha Fifi There are already a lot today come here Of course my mother forced me to come. You think I want to come? But your environment is pretty good. Just eat a meal reluctantly ha So he came here to eat. Okay, just think of it as a good deed. What is a freeloader ? I tell you Dining with us high society people It's your pleasure You should be grateful. The line is right Meal will be served I have something else to do later. Don't get me wrong, this is a gift for you. My mother bought What a piece of crap I bought it for several hundred bucks. This one But Brother Lu Yang bought it for me at the Chanel counter Bai Feifei This is a gift my mother picked for you. Even if you don't like it You should give me some respect. Yo You poor bastard. You deserve the respect of my Feifei. ah Brother Shepherd just yelled at Fei'er Phil is so scared Bai Feifei This is a gift my mother bought for you. You pick it up for me Don 't blame me for being rude I won't pick it up. What if I get my hands dirty? It's just a broken bag. Come on, boy This is 1,000 yuan elder brother What not enough Give 2,000 Is it enough It's not about money Hey Pepe These are the flowers my mother picked for you Pick it up for me Shepherd Brother Someone just accidentally dropped him on the ground. He has been obsessed with this matter Call me Kid Call for 10,000 yuan Why? I apologize to Phil . This money is yours. Get lost Don't think you can do whatever you want just because you have a few bucks. Boy, let me give you a face You poor bastard You dare to question my Feifei? Humph, no girl likes you . Who says no one cares? I think he's pretty good. Mr. Xiao How did you come Hey, my family visited your house a while ago. Stop trying to get close to me. Why are you bullying my boyfriend? Mr. Xiao You mean this poor guy? Zhou Huan is your boyfriend Mr. Xiao, please stop joking. Do you think I'm kidding? Mr. Xiao, why are you here? ah Bai Feifei will tell you the truth I already have a girlfriend And prettier than you Chu Huaian, you have a girlfriend and you asked me to have dinner with you Shameless And you You just look better. I wonder which man she is the mistress of. Use the money to support this pretty boy Shut up Shut up Brother Ouyang Why are you hitting me? You beat them too. Lu Yang This is your girlfriend. No Mr. Xiao, this is just for fun. I'll apologize to you for contradicting you. Should you apologize to my boyfriend too? ah This Mr. Zou Boss Zou I didn't know about your relationship with Mr. Xiao before. Talk back to you Just let it go this time Shen Bin has something to do, let's go Why are you letting go? You are not worthy of me buying a bag and putting it down Why did I sleep with you for a month? You just bought me a bag Lu Yang, why don't you get out? Do you want to stay for dinner? No no no, I'm leaving now I'm going to leave now I'll go first, slow down. Slow down. Lu Yang Lan Cuicui What are you still doing here ? Why don't you get out with your boyfriend? Huai'an Brother He and I are just baby lovers We have no relationship Just a show The person I really like is you It's always been you Don't mention baby marriage to me anymore . Now I have you Bai Beibei You'd sell your body for a bag Still entangled now Huaian Princess Where on earth are you? good Huaian Princess I go first I'll go back to visit my aunt another day Wait a moment Leave the gift This is what Huai'an's mother left for her future daughter-in-law. You deserve to take it away Old pair Don't you like the gift I gave you? I want to take it back too. roll Huai'an Brother I really know I'm wrong Please forgive me this time. ah Since you don't want to leave Then I'll find someone to help you. Manager, come here. What do you want, Mr. Xiao? This woman seriously affected our dining environment Hello Mr. Xiao Huai'an Brother Huai'an Brother Su Huaian Don't think you are great just because you are a rookie in the Xiao family. Tell Lord Jiang about what the Xiao family said Mr. Xiao, why don' t you eat? Oh, I'm not hungry yet. Mr. Xiao Thank you for helping me out today. You're welcome. You helped me before. Oh, right There is no chance for you to be with Bai Feifei now. Do you plan to show off your girlfriend? Since you saved my mom I imagine you becoming my girlfriend. But I dare not mention it. No, I already have someone I like. oh She is in Jiangzhou. ? I've never heard you mention this before. In him he is particular But he hasn't promised me yet. I didn't confess to him. correct Mr. Xiao Aren't you single too? What kind do you like? I like maturity Stable and safe A kind-hearted girl good Then let me help you keep an eye on this wood I said, aren't all these advantages yours? I can't hear this yet. It seems that he really doesn't care about me. Oh, that kind of restaurant How can I not drink? The manager brought me my wine. Mr. Xiao, your wine Come and have a drink Little Boy I don't drink much. How can a man not drink? Cut the crap Come drink Ye Qing Tell you Ye Qing, do you know When I first met you I just like you Could you please not leave me What you said is true I've always liked you Can you do it I good I promise you Where is this? Good night you wake up Breakfast is ready Mr. Xiao, was it you who brought me here yesterday? Mr. Gao between us Don't call me Xiao Zu I don't like it very much Just call me Ye Qing Call me Ye Ye Qing Overdoing it Why I forgot it's all your fault I'm drunk at this moment you What are you mumbling about here? Go wash up Getting ready for breakfast Why dad You were right last night. What did I say yesterday? Yesterday you said I was your goddess I liked me the first time I saw me I drank too much yesterday Does not count Hey, you can't default on your debt for a day. Why No, no, no, yes I think I'm not worthy of you. You are the daughter of the Xiao family. I'm just an ordinary poor boy Good night From the first time you touched my left ear I just like you You are so outstanding I won't mind good Ye Qian I like you You be my girlfriend No no The Lin family has been working against me. I'm afraid you'll be implicated Don't worry, I will definitely help you deal with the Lin family Liu Shao, I am an ordinary listener of Xiao Yuqing's store this time I saw Zhou Haoran and Xiao Yuqing hugging each other. Walked into the antique shop Xiao Yuanxin He usually acts so fucking cool . I didn't expect him to be such a jerk. You are writing here. The teacher must do the homework. Do you hear me? Li Shao Don't worry, I promise there won't be any left. Don't say you broke the rules by smashing the antique shop. The Insurance Regulatory Commission is afraid You're mentally ill. You are my dog. Why are your elbows bent outward? Wang ah Do you see if this exhibition is real? no It is a modern imitation of myself How about I recruit some apprentices for you? Otherwise you're too tired alone. No one would make me suffer even though I'm so young. There will definitely be a dispute in the end. I will fire anyone who dares to argue with you. Not much left If that's the case My reputation for borrowing is ruined. But I will feel sad it does not matter Why What is this? it's him It's a floating artifact Last time he cheated me of the treasure of the store, the No. 1 bone Scammed me of 200,000 Hello He is just a floating little man. He cheated me out of the treasure of the store last time. Scammed me of 200,000 What is he going to do? Wang Long, you have to break into the store too Malicious destruction of property I want to see how you explain this. Zuo Pingan Social Economics Why are you guys here, Wang Long? You cheated me out of 200,000 last time Are you trying to destroy my antique shop this time? Hum, help whoever gives more money. Who asked Mr. Lin to give more money? Don't talk nonsense with this guy. Anyway, there is no extra You lay down I will definitely send you to jail today. Hello Fortunately, I have you Otherwise, Lin Xiaotian would be Wang Long is a loser who can't even handle the smallest things Master Since Zhou Haiyang and Xiao Yuqing knew about this Otherwise we forget it ah Do you still have feelings for Qian's shop owner Xue Ruiqin? Is it Wang Murong's miscellaneous electricity thing? How do you say you walk out? Young Master, I was adopted by Li Jian when I was young. Always loyal to Li Jian I will never do such a thing. Master I don't dare to do that. You prepare a fake. I will ask the expert to issue a certificate Then you take it to Xiao Yueqin's store for appraisal They must have replaced the real thing. I'm lying to you with a fake Master Otherwise, just let them go. What the fuck are you saying? They made me suffer so much I must settle this account Zhou Hai'an This is a painting I mentioned. Please take a look Zhang Hu, you are a good person Why should I be with Lin Xiaotian ? A road that goes all the way to the dark I can not understand what you say I came by myself It has nothing to do with Lin Shao Do you know which boy this is? We don't have surveillance in our store. We just lost some reputation. And you will suffer in prison like Wang Long Zhou Haian, the Lin family has done me a great favor Just like Mr. Xiao's kindness to you, I have to repay him. Did Zhang Hulin's family do you a great favor or a great grudge? You need to think about this yourself From the perspective of a professional treasure appraiser, There's something wrong with your jade pendant. This is my ancestral jade pendant. When we first met Your jade pendant is indeed handed down from the Ming and Qing dynasties. But now this He is the emperor's jade pendant Are you saying that my jade pendant was replaced? You'll need to check it yourself. Who can accept your jade pendant? Or you can check the account books of your home country's head office. Maybe I can find out where your jade pendant is. If what you say is true I owe you a favor Yin Xiaotian, you have been provoking me again and again Do you really think I'm easy to mess with? Finally it's done although I'm enough. Are you in there? I am What's wrong It's ok, I thought you went home Oh Nope I am caring for antiques By the way, I plan to visit your shop tomorrow. You've leaked so much stuff in the past two days. We should fight back. Zhang Hu asked you to do some mischief in the antique shop yesterday what's the result Lin Chao I handed it over Huazhou Zhou Huayuan did not answer Lin's Treasures is the industry leader Lin's treasures said it was fine. That's definitely no problem. There's nothing wrong with what he said. Forget it. I won't hold you responsible this time. What's in your hand? No, nothing. I just want to know the knowledge of treasure appraisal Take it out and show it to me quickly Lin Shao was so angry this morning. Zhou Huai, what's wrong? Are you here to help Xiao Yueqing? fine I'm here to envy Others have Speak How much money does Lin Shao plan to make ? explain This must be a fake. Xiao Yueqing How can I ask you to sell me a real one? Yeah, Lin Shao Since you don't believe me Never mind Come Tell me why Lin Shao will tell you the truth Xiao Yeqing won 10 million He's not worth a penny. Could you please not mention the 10 million? Good Forest I helped him catch the babysitter two days ago Recovered such a huge loss Should he give me a raise? But what is the result? He said thank you twice . It turns out that eliminating a group is so harsh! Look at him Of course, Lin Shao To be honest Yesterday I told Xiao Yuting to be more anxious I can't handle it alone. I'm dying of exhaustion. Guess what he said How to do it He said that those who are capable should work harder He trusts me. Just give all the work to me. Oh, you are really wronged. If you come to me I will definitely give you a high salary Why fine thank you for your kindness If I surrender to you I'll bring you grace Now I just want to sell this Tang Renyong Get the money I'm flying away How much do you want to sell it for? Then see Is what is said less true? When I went there, Xiaoyi Village's power supply is indeed popular with one person OK The experts will come soon. If the identification is true I'll buy it. Then Absolutely Yeah, Lin Shao It's in this class. No problem. Okay, Zhou Huaian Then I'll believe you once Give me a card number I'll transfer the money to you later. Lin Shao We will use cash for this transaction. That won't work. This is worth millions. I don't have that much cash. Think about it, if I were to be discovered by Xiao Yueqing I'm definitely going to be arrested. By then, this Tangren Dance will also be taken back. You give me cash I'm flying away In this case Xiao Yueqing doesn't even know that this function is in your hands Who are you But I only have 5 million in cash. Not enough Why That's enough. I'll take 5 million and run away first. left over money Mr. Lin, I'll take it first. I'll give you the money first. You must transfer the remaining money to me. I have done such a great service for you. You can't mistreat me Don't worry. This Zhou Huaian He wants the rest of the money. Hahaha Ahu I'll find a place where no one is around. Take all the money back yes Xiao Yuqin Ah Xiao Yuqin You are now deserted by everyone Hello Yueqing is me, Lin Xiaotian Lin Xiaotian Why are you calling me? I'm busy and don't have time for you Yueqing, I have something important to do. About me What happened to your dad Huai'an? Hahaha It's so affectionate. You didn't expect Zhou Huaian to betray you, did you? Lin Xiaotian If you want to sow discord I advise you to give up. It seems you really don't believe it OK Then you can find where your Tang Yong is. Please make your words clear I just Give Zhou Huaian 5 million Tang Renyong is in my hands now He has run away with the money. Yu Qian and Zhou Huaian are reliable men. Han An would not do this Rain Heart I have good news for you. Don't come over here My guess The person in this black bag is Wu Baiwan, right? That's right . How did you know? Come on, praise me. praise you Shao Ke'an You deserve me Since you like money Then take your money and get out Do not be angry Ask your parents to explain to you Don't come here I don 't want to hear your explanation Tangrenyou is the treasure of the antique shop You actually spend money on it Ricky, why don't you listen to my explanation? Don't you believe me? I just trust you too much That's why I gave you the antique film. I don't The Tang Renyong that I sold to Lin Xiaotian was a fake How come I didn't know you could make fakes? I am a student majoring in cultural relics restoration. If it weren't for Lin Xiaotian's bullying I won't teach him this way. What you gave Lin Xiaotian was a fake Where did the treasures on the shelves go? I really hid it. If Lin Xiaotian knew that what he had was fake Then my plan won't work. Shuhan Do you think I'm stupid ? How could Lin Xiaotian buy jewelry without meeting in person? You sold it to him for real. Yue Xin This is true You believe me By now Why are you still lying to me? Why don't you admit this is fake? You must be blind to do this. But your money disappeared in front of me good Since you don't believe me Then I'll prove it to you. Let me go If you don't let Open my Yueqin Can you give me a chance to prove myself? Then you call the police Just put me in jail for forging an antique wolf Let Lin Xiaotian's wish come true If you still believe me Just follow me Palace Lock Room Go and have a look What you believe These are my failed imitations. I do this Just want Lin Xiaotian to act immediately Wait until Dewdrop goes bankrupt We can seize the opportunity Such a big thing Why didn't you tell me in advance? Still hiding it from me I didn't mean to hide it from you. Just a risk If Lin Xiaotian knew this was fake I don't want to trouble you I didn't tell you this time Now we just need to wait for Lin Xiaotian to know the truth. Frustrated Land Cruiser expansion is good What if Lin Xiaotian knew If Lin Xiaotian hadn't been fooled I have a second one waiting The second one etc. catch cold I'm here to return the favor. Shang Hu, what are you doing here? Lin Xiaotian asked you to come Careful Zhang Hu came to help me Now we have a common enemy I didn't expect it Lin Xiaotian will sell my ancestral jade pendant And when my family came to see me The Lin family also cheated My family has completely lost contact. I didn't expect Lin Xiaotian to be so popular Zhang Hu, don't worry I will mobilize the power of the Xiao family to help you find your family Don't worry, wait for me to deal with Lin Xiaotian and the Lin family. I will help you find your family . Lin Xiaotian is our common enemy You are right. When Lin Xiaotian asked me to chase Zhou Huaian Recovered 5 million I knew that Tao Renyong must be fake Although I can't see But I believe Zhou Huaian will definitely not betray President Xiao you You are so right. Even you can see it I will never betray Mr. Xiao I believe Mr. Xiao should also know I'll prepare tea and fruits. You guys talk first Mr. Xiao, what happened? fine Let's continue chatting Zhang Hu, I suggest you don't hug me now. Or return to Lin Xiaotian's side Keep lurking Okay, I'll continue lurking. Collect evidence of his crime etc. You go back empty-handed. Lin Xiaotian will definitely piss you off So you take this money back. No, this is money you risked your life for. You just brought the money back. Lin Xiaotian will never doubt you Otherwise, you will definitely suffer a lot. Chu Huai do not worry I will definitely involve the Lin family's evidence Lin Xiaotian Now you are the one who is deserted by everyone I've got all the money back. Zhao Hu did a good job ah Let's forget what happened before. I will reward you handsomely this time. Thanks You less Hey, don't worry. I will never treat you unfairly You are much better than Wang Long. Less coming in Why did you ask people to come here? Go to the hotel with others I called you to come I heard that she and Zhou Fan were childhood sweethearts. I want to find out something from you. Don't think too much. Why did you mention him, Mr. Lin? I'm not familiar with him. He and his wife offended me I'm going to let you deal with him. Oh, a little something Here is 500,000 As long as you have a way I will give you another 1 million after the deal is done. well Lin Shao, I actually hate that couple too. I will definitely help you deal with it You So what are you going to do? Well, Huai'an's mother just recovered from a serious illness. I plan to approach Chinese medicine Then he said all the bad things about Xiao Yeqing Attack Zhou's mother You can even frame him. Oh, what a good plan! Okay, let's do this. Take the money Do things well. Hey Mom at work Okay, I'll be back soon. It's my aunt's call. My aunt is just recovered You go back and take care of it. The store is fine. fair enough Lu Zhaohu is staring at you Lin Xiaotian's every move We also know Otherwise Just come back with me and see me Will my mother disagree with us being together? How come I have a girlfriend as beautiful as you? I'm afraid it's too late to be happy Who promised you? Don' t be a boss It is reasonable to look forward to the mother of an employee. I'm going to pick and choose After all, it's our first meeting Gotta leave a good impression What good choices do you have, Mr. Xiao? The boss visits my employees' families Isn't it just some fruit? You don't know your general You closed the store We'll leave in a minute. Hey, baby, hey Sit, sit, sit Hahaha Why How's your talk with your brother Huaian going? Mama, Brother Huai'an already has a girlfriend Last time he came to see me with his girlfriend His girlfriend bullied me And I stole the gift you gave me. How can this be possible? Feifei do not worry I'll take care of this matter for you No need, auntie If I am misunderstood by Huai'an brother I became heavier You'll definitely hate me more. Oh, Feifei, don't worry. Our family designated you as the daughter-in-law of the Zhou family. I will help you hahaha Aunt, when you were sick some time ago I've been busy with work I haven't come to see you. So it's normal for Huai'an brother to blame me again You, Huaian , are an honest man. He must have been bewitched by the vixen outside. I will definitely make him turn back mom aunt Hello, my name is Xiao Yueqing This is my gift to you. Mom, this is the gift Yuexin carefully selected for you . Look at this. Look at this. like or not Oh, no need to watch Miss Xiao, what brings you to our home? Aunt, I'm here to visit you. Hum, I've seen it too. We won' t invite you to dinner. Just go back Auntie, I'll come back another day. Good night. I'm leaving now. mom Did Bai Feifei say something to you? The person I like is Yueqing I will marry her in the future I disagree The Zhou family's daughter-in-law can only be Feifei Security brother Don't be angry, auntie. His face is just right Bai Feifei, please stop giving me I 'm pretending I don't care what you think Get out of my house now What You want to drive Feifei away Then kick me out now. You don't drive me away. Aunt Huai'an is not what it means We are truly in love I don't know why you are prejudiced against me. But I promise I will be good to Huai'an Mom, you heard it too. Isn't it only when I'm with Yue Xin that I can be happy? Do you know what happiness is? Look at Feifei. The gifts people sent were all imported from abroad. Their family is well off. That's happiness. mom The monthly salary is the daughter of the Xiao family He's also my boss. Look, this is the jewelry he carefully selected for you. Worth a million mom This kind of thing You don't dare joke with mom. Is it really worth a million? real Auntie, this is ice jadeite Oh, this is too expensive. Thank you Mr. Xiao Thank you Mr. Xiao Aunt, make some uncles. Ye Qing, come come come sit sit Hahaha What did you tell the babysitter called &quot;water&quot;? A green in the water Hey, what are you standing there for? Make some tea Good good good Auntie, this is ice jadeite. Refers to the quality of jadeite Long-term wearing will enhance people's physical fitness Oh, Yuqing! You are so thoughtful. We are Huaiyang I can find a girlfriend like you. That's our Zhou family's blessing, hahaha aunt Huai'an Brother if so People will gossip about you. What kind of freeloaders are you? Climbing high branches is good Oh, say Let them talk. It's 55 years. You have good eyesight. Courageous hahaha Auntie, let's go eat. I know a delicious private restaurant. I have booked it Oh, that's good. Uh, Feifei We're going out to eat. Yeah You put these things uh Take them all back I can't use it anymore You take it away Take it away, hahaha, auntie How about this, I will cook for myself later My craftsmanship is pretty good Please try it. Is it ok? Never mind, we're going out. Get out now Don't worry about me. The driver is waiting at the door. Let's go, okay Oh, so happy That's great hahaha This million-dollar jewel was left here by them. Then I'll accept it with a smile Master Lin, I will go to Zhou's house to persuade Zhou Mu As a result, Zhou Huaian and Xiao Yujin came Got kicked out again You are such a waste You can't even handle a small thing. Get lost. Mr. Lin, where is the money you promised? You haven't done anything well. Are you embarrassed to ask me for money? It's not completely unsuccessful. look This is the jewelry Xiao Yueqin gave to Zhou Yu Stolen by me Hahaha Not bad The water head is very good Worth a million I accepted it You Let's try to make things difficult for them. Don't worry, I will transfer the money to you soon. Lin Shao, do you want I'll follow you tonight. Hahaha Don't worry, money. OK It cost you money The aunt should be enthusiastic You put away the jewelry. No, my aunt and I went downstairs a long time ago. Jewelry is lost How could it be lost? It turned out that Bai Feifei was packing her cosmetics. I took it away This Bai Feifei I knew she was a vain woman. Money-minded I didn't expect you to steal things. Sleeping with a rich second generation for 10,000 yuan This kind of woman can do anything. Hello This mother is with me mom Don' t scare me Are you okay, mom? mom Don't say that. Don't worry, Bai Feifei can't get away. ah Auntie, don't worry. Rest and recuperate We are here. Autumn Leaves Blame me it's all my fault Blame me Don't say that. Don't worry. Bai Feifei wants If you sell antiques I will definitely get the news. Ah Bai Feifei and Jewelry Cable Search yet? But I have arranged for someone to wait for him downstairs. If he comes home and no one says so immediately Don't worry, mom I know a lot of people on Antique Street If Bai Feifei wants to take action We will definitely get the news ah Just fine That's good. I feel relieved. Hello Zhu Huaian Just now I saw Bai Feifei coming to see Lin Xiaotian In his hand he still holds Mr. Xiao's jewelry Great! Zhang Hu Thank you I'll be there in a minute. How's the situation over there? I have collected almost all of them . I'll be there soon Caught Lin Xiaotian off guard how The bag was found right Bai Feifei and Ning Xiaotian collude with each other Let's go find him now. But I'm afraid you're in danger. rest assured The warehouse is ready Okay, you go first. I'll be there later If there is danger You waited for me so early It's Zaoma I'm leaving first Be safe on the road. Oh, you are such an annoying little goblin. Lin Shao, you are still the best People still haven't recovered yet. Yeah, yeah. Give my monthly salary to my mother Insurance What do you know? I do not know Lu Huaian How dare you, a piece of trash, come to my door? OK Then you don't leave Huh, what's wrong with you? I didn't expect you to be with a dog like Bai Yunfei Even dogs are interested I actually enjoy it Zhong Huai You're just a softie. Xiao Yueqing must be blind to fall for you Zhong Huai Bai Feifei is your childhood sweetheart He's throwing himself at me now Your Xiao Yuexin will definitely not escape from my palm That's right Lin Shao is now the most powerful person in Jiangzhou I advise you to kneel down and apologize to him right now . If he's in a good mood, he might let you go. I don't want to hear your nonsense. Hand over the jewelry now. Otherwise, don't blame me for being rude. I took the jewelry. But you have evidence . Our Mr. Lin is sitting here Can't you keep up? Hahaha Since you admit your sin now There is evidence You actually recorded it with the recorder That's right, you don't think Si Haoling Why Don't. I'll see how you do this time. This jewel is worth millions. I think you should marry Elvis. Master Lin, please save me I don't want to be the Wolf King Lei Shao Get out of my way Can't do even the smallest things well What's the use of you? I I was with you last night You just turned your back on me. I'll leave, you're the only one who deserves to be my woman Visitors Stay don't want Miss Yin, you are such a heartless person. You're abandoning your partner so quickly. Supervisor, supervisor, supervisor His theft has nothing to do with me I'm an antique editor. I won't tell you about every treasure. good If you say so Doesn' t it has anything to do with you? Of course it has nothing to do with me. ah Zhou Hua Do you think you can deal with me for such a small matter? Do you think I'm as stupid as you? Lin Xiaotian That Tang Renyong is just a fake You actually put it there Hahahaha you are such an idiot Hey, so what? It won't cause any loss to me. You should just worry about yourself. snort What's there to worry about in my situation? This in broad daylight Are you going to hit me? Zhu Hua, are you arrogant? Um Don't forget this is Lin's Jewelry Store You come here today I can let you out Zhao Hu comes in Yin Xiaotian You just provided some shoddy evidence. Do you have the guts to compete with me in treasure appraisal? cut Oh, you are such a child. Do you think treasure appraisal can represent everything for you? Let me tell you In the antique world Those who follow me will prosper Those who oppose me will die I see who dares to move Xiao Yuanqin, you are here Great, wait for me. Solved this loser I'll take you to see my dad. It seems you are delusional This is a staff member of the Antiques Association. This time I came here to investigate the Lin family treasures Forced buying and selling Remove the director of the ancient Tell me about your store staff. What is the Treasure Appraisal Association? I used to be Now is You will come Get out of here too Lin Xiaotian, since you are so arrogant Why don't we make a bet? I bet you deserve it. Your life is in my hands What do you bet with me? Li Xiaotian, you dare to touch Zhou Hengan Your house is big Wait for me to deal with him first and then listen carefully. Stop bragging. What are you going to do to me? I bet you this store There is definitely evidence that you have committed a crime. You are me I tell you You have to be responsible for what you say This is my shop I know something clearly. So what are you afraid of? If you win, it's up to you. Zhou Huaian, listen to me. If you lose I will teach Yueqing in front of you Then I'm gonna dig your eyes out Oh, Liu Xiaotian You're looking for death let me tell you These are all the time you are selling them. Buy at a very low price Sell it at a high price what happened I am just framing myself. You obtained these illegally. shareholder Afterwards, I sent my younger brother to be intoxicated Promise to take care of each other's family But there is no room for implementation How come you have these? If you want people not to know Unless you Don't worry, Lin Xiaotian still has another piece of evidence I didn't expect that temporary treasure would do such a thing It really brings shame to the antique world. Yes, your family is too arrogant. Disrupting the antiques market Disrupting social order They should be brought to justice Hey, the master already knows about this. He wants to control everyone. Clean up a meal Then buy as much as possible. What to do with two The master said We can't let them ruin the Lin family's reputation. This evidence is truly horrifying. I guess you I am very interested in the history of the Lin family. In this evidence The newspaper that fully records the history of the Lin family's rise What's the point of you talking so much nonsense? Ah, just tell me Don't let any one go. Jiajia What do you want to do I am a member of the Treasure Appraisal Association. Zhou Hua, do you think this is just a small matter? Can you bring me to justice? Ah, you are in our Lin family now You are asking for trouble, do you understand? hey-hey Actually, I said so much. There's no evidence at all. After all, it's a long time ago No more seriousness I didn't expect you to be so impatient. You 're such an idiot. Hahahaha it doesn't matter I will let you know If you cause trouble for me, I will arrest you Zhang Hu I want you to arrest them. Didn't you hear my order? Lin Xiaotian, you don 't really think you will win, do you? Tiger, am I deaf? Wow Li Xiaotian This slap It's because you've been beating and insulting me for so many years. This slap Because you stole my ancestral jade pendant And insulted my sister How do you know this? My parents are both dead My sister and I both have a jade pendant passed down from our ancestors. My sister went through so much trouble to find me. You don't let us recognize each other. Even insulted him You beast Ahhhh beast Zhang Hu, stop. He's the kind of person who gets people talking. Don't let him feed himself. My sister was only 16 years old at that time I was insulted by this beast. Do not worry Lin Xiaotian is doomed this time I will definitely send him to Yueqing You should arrange for this person from the Treasure Appraisal Association to leave first. Then notify the relevant departments to investigate good You must keep an eye on Lin Xiaotian Don't let him run away good Do not worry Lin Xiaotian We lost the bet again. hey-hey If Zhang Hu hadn't betrayed him, he would have applied for the job. Hey Lin Xiaotian I still don't know where you lost. You have no bottom line. Being arrogant Even a little neurotic certainly The most important Because you have sinned I'm really sorry today Let Sister Lin be frightened first You're welcome, Mr. Xiao. Today, thanks to you and Mr. Zhou Only then can the Lin family be brought to justice Wait till this is over. Huai'an and I invite you to dinner Good trip Then I'll go first Please stay I want to ask him something. The one who sent away the Regulatory Association Why haven't you come back yet? Zhou Huaian didn't expect this. Xiao Yueqing is in my hands If you want Xiao Yueqing to be fine, just let the young master go. The Lin family's bodyguard, right? I advise you to turn back Don't be because of this waste Lin Xiaotian It's not worth paying such a high price The Lin family saved my life I am not Zhang Hu Not grateful Now you let the young master go Otherwise I can't guarantee it. What will happen to Xiao Yueqing? Okay, I promise you. but How can I be sure that you will let Xiao Yueqing go? Let's arrange a place. Go to the suburbs The wasteland outside Only you and the young master can come Otherwise, you will never see Xiao Wuqi again in this life. Zhou Hua didn't expect this. You still don't have a stick Let me tell you I left Jiangzhou I must let you go out and bring it back Shuhua Are you going alone? I'm worried I'll explode Of course I'm going alone How could I possibly bring such a useless person with me? clear let me go Someone's dog brought your master here. Zhou Huaian Xu Xiang You really dare to come Master Why was Master Zhou Huaian injured like this? You just told me to bring him here. It didn't say you can't fight. He said again Most of his injuries were caused by Zhang Hu. What does it have to do with me? Save me now! Master I'm here to rescue you How much do you pay? Let go, Master. You each save people No one is allowed to make small moves without leaving good Ye Qing, are you okay? I'm fine. Master, are you okay? you You are not the young master. I am fine. Go and catch Lin Xiaotian Don't let him get away This neighbor dog The plan was a success Send him there on fire With Lin Letian I'm sorry sorry Don't worry, there's danger. Go in first The trap will happen again I'm fine.