Welcome to another Mathologer video. Powell's Pi Paradox. Never heard of it? tools that I'll be using to resolve this paradox mathematics discovered by Indian mathematicians to today. Okay, let me get straight into it I'm sure most regular Mathologerers will be Pi built from the odd numbers, without a circle etc. Absolutely beautiful. And the Mathologer already presented a couple of stunning proofs do something totally different. Let's start by Now we can use the infinite sum on the right to more and more of the terms. Okay, so let's terms. In particular, let's compare Pi with that of both numbers. 3.14159 both at the top and at the next digits. 2 at the top and 1 at the bottom. that's actually quite disappointing. We just get for our efforts is a measly 6 correct digits convergence is definitely a bit surprising but look at the next pair of digits. Both 6. Must be a two digits randomly there is a 1 in 10 chance that Both 5. Interesting? Next. Both 3. What's those digits to be all over the place. Why checking. 558899779933223388 ALL the same. That's will still believe that this is a coincidence. actually do go off the rails again at the next on there won't be many more coincidences, right? Yep, 1 and 6. Different. However, before 226644338833227799 Seriously? And then. All And it's not just if we add one million terms terms, a trillion terms, same thing. Intrigued? discovered in 1983 by the maths teacher Martin Why had nobody noticed this earlier? That's a bit gem and the fact that people have been obsessing into perspective in 1983 more than 16 million the ancient Indian discoveries that will serve as discoveries consist of some beautiful I grew up knowing this identity named after Gottfried Willhelm Well, at some point people realised that this formula. The Scottish mathematician James And so now some people refer to this series name is misleading. It turns out that this gem and mathematician Madhava of Sangamagrama at No, seriously 200 whopping years before Leibniz middle ages. AND, it took until quite recently and acknowledge this. Does this count as another Leibniz's formula usually proved using calculus? derive it? Well they used ... calculus! Really. It discovered quite a few of the crown jewels integrals, and some really advanced calculus stuff when you replace the 1s in the numerators you get the famous power series expansion For example, I teach this stuff in first year believe it or not Madhava and his colleagues hundreds of years before Leibniz and Newton knew the corresponding series for sine and cosine. one for cosine. Now, back to our gem. Madhava in this series that were largely overlooked in allowed him to speed up the slow convergence of and it's these patterns that we'll use those mysterious patterns hiding in our series? What we've got there on the right, is a so-called the plus and the minus are alternating, they of course, there is the fact that the Now, let's really go for it and use the sum Okay, so the whole thing times 4 again. Now, roll what does the first term of our series tell us Throw in the second term - Okay, so adding the first five terms gives pretty pathetic. In fact, as I already mentioned side of our Pi formula definitely sums to Pi, it useless for obtaining decent approximations. So, let's have another close look at what first term. Here we overshot Pi. Second term. Stopping the adding and subtracting at any point closer look. Let's say we are here. And the plan doesn't it look like we would end up much, much term? Like so. Really much closer to the Pi line halfway. Again, better than all the way. Okay, it seems like we can do much better by choosing or subtracting half the final term seems pretty Yep, there is. To chase it down, we'll look for sums of our series and the value of Pi. That's It's one of these differences that we're trying But HOW can we possibly go pattern spotting in After all we don't know Pi, Pi is what we want we entered the story in India, around 1400. And by knew some damn good approximations for Pi. Of you all know that one from school. 3.14 pretty much better approximations of Pi, like for example Pi. Not bad, hmm? And now here's the key about comparing it to Pi, and instead look at the then hope that whatever patterns there are, these instead of Pi. Okay, so let's calculate the Here's the first difference in numbers. This first difference Third difference and so on. On to the fractions? No? Not easy, but don't be too fixated Still no? Well, here's an easy one: in all those the number at the top. There, 113 at the bottom is 161, and so on. Not impressed? No, I didn't think are the bottom numbers than the top numbers? Let's equal to the one at the top plus a little bit. at the top. Next. Here the bottom number is about Looks like there may be some pattern here. So To figure out how bitty that extra bit is, divide Overall still the same number of course but on top the bitty bit we are after. There. Repeat for the the top. 1 on top and 2 and a bit at the bottom. Yep, this pattern continues forever and ever example, the sum of the first four terms of our of Pi we can simply add 1 fourth. In the case six terms we add a sixth. Let's check how much There, the first six terms add to 2.97. the first time 3.14 comes up in the partial sum of Let's compare this to the adjusted sum. 7 digits mathematicians didn't stop there. They then 16/97. 17/161 and so on. Let's zoom in on for everything in sight. Now, pattern spotting. 6, 9, 13, 16, 20, 24. There's definitely a little wonky at the start but then they're all the first three blue numbers, the multiples of 4 20 and 24 it's 28, then 32, 36, 40, and so on. approximations for Pi if we choose the correction There and there. And here are the three On top just the sum of the first six terms, in the the bottom using our new refined correction term. Again, the differences in the numbers of correct are adding N terms the correction term is this. mathematicians and us? Is there a next? Of course! discern a pattern. I'm going to skip the details. were able to discover one more refinement And here is the approximation of Pi that we Again a very impressive improvement. In total, to 15-digits. Anyway, beyond this the Indian patterns and so their part of the story ends here. let me now use these correction Remember this picture here? These are the bottom the corresponding 69 digits of the sum of To start with let me explain where The approximation that corresponds to the first millionth partial sum at the bottom and actually the top. And what's the difference between these 1/N. And since N is 1 million the difference between these two numbers? Well, that's just million the difference is 1 millionth. 0.000001, first discrepancy between the partial sum and Pi those first couple of digits visible up there the sum except for this one highlighted digit. Not the digits at the top are those of Pi. At the same approximation. The second number at the bottom Now let's calculate the difference by plugging that's the correction term, On closer inspection by some other strings of digits. Roughly, the regions of coincidence between Pi and these regions come from our super approximation I am not going to dwell on the details. I But here are a couple of observations. First, for of 10 the associated corrections will all have before, strings of 0s should mostly correspond to that different from strings of 0s since they are mean by this? Well, our 0, 9 correction difference Right, just focussing on the first string of 9s. red blue string on top minus the 1 at the bottom. about as many digits of coincidence plus some of this string. Anyway, overall I hope that's I should also mention that if you actually third correction term FAILS to give a complete the millionth sum and Pi. However, it turns out Madhava missed. And this fourth correction term the millionth sum. Here is that fourth correction these correction term refinements. Anyway, overall did Madhava miss these other correction terms? that's just an approximation of Pi, instead of we will no longer pick up further patterns from used his super correction term to come up with a that refined approximation instead of 355/113 of the true patterns will become apparent. And have been very hard to put into action in 1400, his brilliant brain. Anyway, if you're interested the nitty gritty bits plus links to relevant very nice explanation, don't you think, and a should say a little bit more about those medieval I said, these guys definitely did discover a lot their Western counterparts and they deserve a lot Of course, as with all things dating that have been lost. In particular, there are no only some texts on astronomy. What we do know commentaries, written by other members of his What's particularly interesting for mathematicians the proofs. And Madhava and his disciples and essentially complete proofs even by today's For example, the known Indian proof of Madhava's integral based proof. Truly amazing. In terms correction terms we are not absolutely sure. I presented to you today on some reconstructions extent Madhava had proofs that his correction first documented fairly involved proofs are part Again, check out the description of this video Here is one final thing worth noting. Madhava with some new beautiful Pi formulas featuring the first correction term translates and the second correction term corresponds to of these correction terms into a new series? The off, let me quickly show you how the translation This one here. Okay, so we start with our original of partial sums. Important observation: Notice be recovered from the sequence above. For difference between the fourth and third elements the first three terms cancel. There. There There, at the bottom. Similarly with all the other Blue minus green equals orange. Blue equals This gives a new sequence of numbers. Now what's Easy. As before its terms are just the differences Like the fourth term here is just the difference Blue minus green, well the same there and there. And so the fourth term of the the general formula for the nth difference a bit, in this very beautiful concise form. Not obvious And then the other terms are calculated in the all correction terms can be turned into new only the first two appear in those old Indian first two the terms of the new series can can be Also, in those old Indian palm leave manuscripts mathematical language that we use today. they were all expressed in verse! And I guess ugly in verse :) Anyway that's it for today. from one of those old manuscripts.