It's the company that For nearly eight decades, Visa has Top dogs in finance used to be big No longer. Earlier this month, Visa, a humble financial services company. In 2023, Visa processed an impressive the previous 12 months. By ruthlessly crushing its competition, cards. In 1928, Amadeo Gianini is the His bank has recently just achieved an Bank of America. On the east coast, you have banks like competition. But on the west coast, Bank of America partly to the unprecedented immigration to California. Gianini now has the money and the power. It is a stark contrast to the humble Born into an Italian immigrant family, as a grocery merchant. He knows his success is meaningless unless immigrants. He was the son of humble Gianini's uniqueness was to be able to against and despised. He therefore stood by them to grow both the He was one of the first bankers to Before long, Gianini grasps a pivotal truth. Launching his own bank would allow him to impact. In 1904, he establishes His hard work and generosity towards the burgeoning success. His bank was a completely different bank above all, on a new vision developed Gianini seizes the perfect moment, as era. As California's economy explodes, By the late 1920s, his bank boasts over mergers, it acquires a new name, Bank of America. From the very beginning, Gianini had a singular vision. He wanted Bank of America to become a to the masses. This meant not just traditional banking extending into other areas like mortgage By offering loans to the burgeoning middle exponentially. In the following decade, Bank of largest bank in the world. In 1954, S. Clark Beise is Long before this moment, Beise has been Gianini to forge the empire of Bank of America. In the mid-1950s, the bank was one of services and branches nationwide. So as the leader of Bank of America, S. individual. For Beise, the shadow of his determined to create a legacy to call his own. Tech-savvy, Beise begins to explore the witnesses one of its biggest economic booms. The 1950s in the United States It's a time when the middle class power thanks to rising wages and widespread employment. Consumerism is on the rise, fueled by a of new consumer goods like Around this time, we saw What does that mean? Customers could buy goods and Gas stations introduce gasoline cards, offer their cards to facilitate General stores like Sears also issue These store cards empower As the new chief executive at Bank of for the bank. And one of his managers has Joseph Williams was born in Newark, New served as an infantry officer After the war, Williams looked for an at Bank of America. As he witnesses the rise of various a single general purpose card to replace all of them. The value of a single card that could instantly obvious. He was among its growing core of middle managers. Prior to the introduction of credit with a loan officer. This method was very time-consuming. But William has a bold idea. He envisions a card that contains a $300 customer. The idea of a one-month grace balances without facing As did the idea of charging A figure that would be seemingly set in manner of interest rate fluctuated wildly. If this form of credit card works, Bank rates, and it has the potential And it will also catapult Williams to America. In September 1958, Bank of America It is an unprecedented mass mailing campaign. This was one of the craziest events in banking. He picked a city in California, Fresno, card called &quot;BankAmericard.&quot; Approximately 60,000 unsolicited Bank of household in the city. This audacious move essentially or approvals for the very The card comes with a $300 credit interest rate. It's a card for every need, usable Williams and his group saw that a It could be used either as a device as a device generating an instant personal loan. With credit cards seemingly this what appears to be free money. During the first few weeks, Bank of America immediately drops more to dominate the market before competitors can catch up. Before launching Bank of America, the about 4%. Williams used that as an assumption for know is that the actual delinquency one in five customers failing to Customers and merchants quickly learn to fake transactions. In a short span, Bank of America finds for any bank in the late 1950s. As a result, Joseph Williams is fired. Williams was a tragic figure. He had the right idea, The initial launch of Bank of America was a disaster. To recoup losses, the bank begins collection agencies to Despite Fresno drops marketing fiasco, the majority of people do desire a credit card. A year after launch, BankAmericards into a profitable enterprise, but the make money from the credit card. By the mid 1960s, BankAmericard It begins to catch the attention of other banks. To many of its competitors, they realize don't have the resources to build their system. And after the retirement of S. Clark is determined to take advantage of this situation. He quickly sees this as an He realizes that Bank of America could allowing them to use Bank of Licensing means letting other In the early 1960s, Bank of America cards under the BankAmericard program. This means that these banks can issue more importantly, let Bank of America on providing the loans. This licensing model proves to be a resounding success. Within a few years, BankAmericard the industry. But as more banks adopt and issue their of problem comes to the surface. Following BankAmericard's launch and opportunity. Instead of robbing the bank outright, cards that are not yet sent to customers. At the time, the infrastructure for efficient as it is now today. The stolen cards were unembossed, account holders yet. These criminals then attempt to sell the a difficult position. Credit card theft is a new type of crime. The bank fears that the unauthorized use paying the ransom, so they decide to misuse. Yet fraud is merely a tip of the iceberg and its licensing banks. Because the vast majority of credit With every transaction, the merchant card sale it made. Then the merchant bank would send out country whose customers had made those purchases. The customers banks in turn would of the transaction for itself, the interchange fee. Finally, the customers bank When the customer paid, the transaction was complete. As transactions continue to surge, If Bank of America card can't find an To address this crisis, a man from an change everything. The man most capable of solving BankAmericard's problem hails from the most improbable origin imaginable, Utah, the Mormon State of America. Growing up on a farm, Dee Hock's childhood As a Mormon, Dee Hock develops a But he quickly rebels against his faith and his school. Early on I never felt I belonged in that family. My father is very tall and physically be alone and wander outside in the We were constantly confronting one another. He was of the school that said there's of course that was his way and I always resented him. He frequently gets into trouble and self-directed studies. Dee Hock did not like following rules at all. He's the type that would change the As a result, after college, Despite being a high performer, Dee Hock superiors leading to his terminations. By the early 1960s, with a pregnant unemployment support from the government. I had no money in the bank, no friends, children with the other one on the way. I was out of work and had no idea what to do. I was having about a depression. The first thing that occurred to us, we to support that I should go and apply for unemployment. So I drove to the unemployment office. Across the street from it, there was a a time of mild recession and I I sat there for well over an hour, an I was entitled for unemployment I felt that it was contrary to everything And I had a feeling that if I ever got inside me would simply die. After an hour and a half of torment, I pregnant wife that I couldn't do it. Dee Hock is determined he will do happen again. It's pretty easy sometimes to feel all those problems and That doesn't mean give up. He eventually lands an assistant This time, to provide for his family, Soon he's asked to perform a task It is to help launch a Dee Hock was a very frugal guy and he But Dee Hock throws himself By 1967, through licensing from Bank of launches its credit card program. The business takes off immediately and credit card operation. By the late 1960s, the credit card industry explodes. Fueled by American economic BankAmericard becomes the leading credit card. But as the business grows, a Many people discuss advantages as first mover. It's the first to scale. The first to scale, generally speaking, to get privilege access to capital, While Bank of America has managed to reduce increasingly difficult. In the 60s, Bank of America's BankAmericard program let different banks give out their cards. This caused a lot of issues with credit card theft. Back then, technology wasn't So this whole setup made it really tough If BankAmericard doesn't address this To prevent that, Bank of America needs cards continued dominance. As a licensee of Bank of America, the system's success. Dee Hock has recently been promoted to the proposes forming a committee comprised problems. He is then appointed as the committee's chairman. As the head of the committee, Hock is system, unlike anything It is an opportunity for He starts by reflecting on his own I saw such a clear distinction Nature never seemed to have this problem. There was no principal blackbird in a flock. There was no president tree in the forest. And yet everything was The two just seemed constantly blended and coexisting. But when you move people into an it was either this or that. It was either true or it was false. It was right or it was wrong. It was either good or it was bad. Hock's ideas are profound. He envisions a self-organizing, Wow, he was pretty much envisioning a figure, a decentralized network. And each of the node must agree to whole the system will function optimally. To fully unleash the power of his independent from Bank of America. He calls it National Bank AmeriCard Inc. Remember, credit card It's the banks that issue credit cards. So NBI was a payment network While his ideas are innovative, Hock especially his biggest partner, Bank of America. It was tough in the beginning. These people are being asked to put that they are totally unfamiliar with. I understand their hesitation. With the support of Bank of America, Dee But what Hock doesn't know is that Bank Express to build a new system, For Dee Hock, in order for the Bank of payment network is as secure as possible. In the digital age, privacy threats are This is where NordVPN kicks in. NordVPN helps you protect your data by or breaches when you are surfing on the internet. It is fast, reliable, and easy to use. For someone who enjoys writing in coffee worrying about losing my data or getting hacked. Not only does NordVPN help secure your NordVPN allows you to browse the prying eyes with its trusted One of the most used features is While visiting China before, I was using NordVPN. Just simply change your country. You can kick back, sit, and relax To get NordVPN, be sure to use my link, all for free. Afraid that the decentralized system collaborates with American Express to controlled solely by them. This revelation comes as a shock to member of the National Bank of America, Inc. If Bank of America and American Express efforts a waste of time and energy. It's like building two competing highways. It's not good for society and a waste of resources. I felt completely betrayed. It was contrary to the spirit of the success. Bank of America had agreed to join the at all that it was also working In response to this challenge, To break away from the industry-wide system for electronic authorization and System Experimental Base 1. Authorization is necessary to check funds and is approved to purchase from a merchant. But what Hock doesn't realize is A new credit system is on the The mid-1970s present significant inflation, and economic In this turbulent period, monetary control and economic growth. But amid these difficulties, the credit This era paves the way for widespread and banking practices. The introduction of Base 1 the forefront of the financial services industry. Thanks partly to one man, Dee Hock. The business model really It earns money every time someone uses as more people and shops And on top of that, it's highly without much effort. But success breeds competition, and a challenger Witnessing the success of NBI and its the potential of forming their own credit card network. Master Charge, later known as card associations, aiming to create a card market. To challenge Bank AmeriCard's dominance, and increasing its acceptance If Master Charge gains enough momentum, AmeriCard as the leading card payment system. Desperate to protect his He rolls out an anti-duality policy, He hopes that this by-law will prevent But he has no idea what is about to happen. Worthen Bank of Little Rock, In late 1971, the NBI board adopted Worthen Bank promptly files a lawsuit, to block the by-law's implementation. The Worthen Bank of Little Rock, They threatened to sue NBI if it I flew to Little Rock to meet with the in an effort to persuade them. But unfortunately, we could not agree. The Worthen Bank promptly filed a asking for an injunction to To make matters worse, Hock's decision Charge has an unexpected consequence. It gets personal. During the Worthen Bank lawsuit, Dee He received a lot of abusive messages, he received threatened packages Each day, I had to rise The business had to go on, and I began to slide into depression, that or function normally. In the end, Worthen Bank wins the And now, his member banks are free to Despite the legal challenge, N.B.I. is ever. Although the 1970s are a troublesome and trade have risen sharply for the opportunities for the use of credit cards. By capitalizing on the shift towards a Bank AmeriCard has become But Dee. Hock realizes that to further be a strong and powerful brand. By the mid-1970s, his firm decides to The Bank AmeriCard is headed Starting sometime next year, according this credit card will be changed all over acceptable. By the early 1980s, despite facing market share of 60%. By introducing products like Visa holograms on cards, its billing soared to $59 billion. As a result, Visa is now one of Dee Hock's thesis has been proven correct. He has built Visa into a thriving, and to further prove that Visa is a helm, he decides it's time to retire. Little does Hock know that within a mere power that will defy everything he stood for. The credit card industry is on the rise. By the early 1990s, it Recognizing this lucrative opportunity, the trend. One of them is Phil Purcell. Purcell was a very Even as a young man, he was already at local dry cleaners on school days. He always understands While working at Sears, It's a credit card aimed at middle class shoppers. By the early 1990s, Discover cards are contender to Visa and MasterCard. Seeing the threat posed by Discover and an unlikely alliance. Together, they implement policies designed cards. It is a tactic that Visa Inc. has tried once before. Phil Purcell sees them as He decides to join American Express in Purcell hopes Visa and MasterCard will his company. The lawsuit, filed by the Justice consumer choice and restrained same banks and banning member banks from Discover. The lawsuit is a huge blow to Visa's business. If they lose, they could potentially lose billions. Visa's troubles are far from over. Even as the antitrust lawsuit loomed, Visa down. In the early 2000s, a group of retailers Visa. They allege Visa is using its market merchants from accepting competitor cards. The lawsuit claims this limits It's important to I think it's because of network effects. Just like social network companies that and consumers adopt a payment network, it even more users. This cycle can lead to a dominant market status. Mounting legal battles forced Visa to American Express, Discover, and the Soon, despite being a virtual money of cash to pay. As far as Visa's management is Huge demand for Visa's record-setting the broader market choked on credit fears again. The success of the largest US IPO in and individual investors turned Visa market. Visa's IPO in 2008 shatters US records, financial crisis. Investors love companies with a monopoly were able to overlook the fact From a decentralized payment network, In 2023, Visa has a revenue of $33 Both increase steadily every year. With over $12.3 trillion in payment king of payments. Well shares of Visa hit an Visa stock has been steadily on the rise forecasted a resilient outlook on consumer spending. None of this would have been possible if not for the ingenuity of one man.