That looks good. A table: elegant, graceful and light-footed, it is a real heavyweight made of solid wood. Leander Sommer, a young carpenter from Breitscheid in the Westerwald, builds this table for us - with sensitivity and mechanical power. Sawing, milling, grinding - dozens of work steps are necessary before the table stands on its own two feet. Leander has grown into his job. I've always been involved since I was little. As a child, I used to do something with my brother in the workshop at the weekend. So I really had no choice but to become a carpenter. Well, I like doing it too. Caution! Hot! Joinery Sommer dries their wood themselves in their own drying chamber. The drying chamber works via a vacuum. A vacuum is created and at the same time it is sprayed again with temperature and humidity so that it dries evenly. If it dries down too quickly, it gets sprayed with moisture again. So that it doesn't tear if it dries too quickly. Because wood is a living material. It can shrink and swell, i.e. shrink or expand - depending on the humidity in the room. Perfectly dried wood is extremely important so that the furniture does not warp later. The elm wood should now be dry to the point. I'm now measuring the moisture content of the wood again to check whether it has really dried down to seven percent. Yes, that's good. Because the wood keeps working and it adapts to the humidity in the room. It is said that in normal living space there is between seven and eight percent wood moisture content. But the good thing is that we have the vacuum drying chamber. So we can then dry the wood down exactly. For a wine cellar, for example, it 's rather damp there, so we can make it wetter. Or for a ceiling suspension, the wood tends to be drier. The Sommer joinery mainly uses local wood. We get our wood mainly from Switzerland. And we only buy European wood where it is traceable where it comes from. We don't even take tropical timber from the rain forest, where the timber industry doesn't work, where there's no reforestation. We always make sure that forestry works. This one? - Let's take that. Mmm, that doesn't fit. Leander Sommer will build the table from a particularly valuable wood: elm. That's what the wood of the elm is called. Looks good too. We're almost there with the width. His brother Franz will help him. He is also a carpenter. The pre-selection of the three planks for the table top is checked again. I'm planing them now to see if they match in color. You can always see that better when all the dirt is gone from the air. Yes, the colors go very well together. The color fits, but the little quirks still matter. (They talk quietly to each other.) We definitely have to cut out the tear here. Let's make the table 1.40 meters. Then we saw that down to 1.45. We still have a bit of extra charge. It looks pretty good here on the site. That then falls out in width afterwards. What width do you get there? Here I get ... .. yes, I would get around 7.20 out of there. With the 3.50. Yes, I would just about get the table out, in terms of width. The three planks for the table top are pre-cut. &quot;Cut to length&quot; is what it's called in carpentry. Of course only very roughly and with enough allowance, because there are still many work steps to follow. Elm is a hard, heavy wood. Thicker planks are needed for the table legs. You have to look a little bit, because it's a completely different tribe. That it also matches the color of the other wood. Franz Sommer planned the solid wood table and thought of something very special. I thought we 'd solve this with a ridge strip connection. Yes, that would be very good. He can work on the ridge. Building a hip joint is technically demanding. But we'll see that in more detail later. First sawing. (The saw starts.) Leander Sommer cuts the wooden planks on the circular saw. This creates the four table legs and the two ridge strips. The planks for the table top also get a treatment on the circular saw and lose their &quot;blunt edge&quot; in the process. The wane is the outside of the bark area of the tree. I trim now, that is, I separate the wane. Where the cracks are in the core, I cut that out. (The saw stops.) Three planks for the top, four legs and two ridge strips: it doesn't take much more to build a table. If you disregard craftsmanship and many hours of work. (The planing machine starts up.) Now the boards for the tabletop are planed flat. The carpenter calls this &quot;dressing&quot;. But how does Leander actually know when it's good? I can tell by the fact that it no longer wobbles on the machine table. Then I know that it is lying flat on the table. Our board for the table top looks pretty good. Next up are the legs. Incidentally, machines have been around in furniture making since the middle of the 19th century. The surface planing machine was invented in 1875. Hard to believe! (Machine stops.) I've now planed the edge here at right angles and can check it again with the angle to see if it fits. You also have to be careful when planing so that the valuable wood is not damaged. You have to pay attention to the course of the grain. It's like petting a dog. If you stroke him against the fur, that doesn't work either. The dog doesn't like that, and neither does the wood. And if you stroke it with its fur, the dog likes it. It's similar with wood. If you plane it against the grain, you're more likely to tear something out than if you plane it with the grain. But that's not enough planing. Now the boards for the tabletop are brought to the desired thickness. I planed the boards down from 35 mm thickness to 27 mm thickness. The table will have a final thickness of 25 mm. So I still have 2 mm to sand after the surface is glued. This is the thicknesser, by the way, another useful electric tool for woodworking. Now Leander Sommer's sense of aesthetics is in demand: he puts the &quot;wood picture&quot; together. The step of laying the image is important for a table. This is where it is decided whether the table will be beautiful afterwards or not. The journeyman carpenter is not quite satisfied yet. It gets even better. Make two out of one. And now? Oh I see! One piece goes on one side and the second on the other. It's okay now. Refined! I split the board because it is beautifully mirrored in the middle. The exterior then fitted quite well, because it's only leaned against the outside. So I split it in the middle and folded it on both sides. clean! I'll paint a triangle on it now, it's called a &quot;carpenter's triangle&quot;. This helps me to be able to put the individual boards back together afterwards. An old work symbol used by carpenters so that nothing gets mixed up. The edges are planed cleanly so that the joints between the planks of the tabletop are tight later. I'm gluing the boards now. These are screw clamps, which I use to force the boards together so that I have a flat edge here at the front where I apply the glue. The glue should be applied quickly. Now, when the glue is indicated, I have about five to eight minutes. By then I should have it in the press at the latest. If not, it's hard beforehand and I'd have to add the edges again. So, planed off the hardened glue. But that has never happened before. The boards for the table top are ready to be glued. Off to the frame press! Hydraulic pressure is used here. Ah, there it is again, the helpful &quot;carpenter's triangle&quot;. (grinding noise) The benefit is that I have much higher pressure. This gives me better gluing results and it goes faster. A certain speed is also required in our trades, because the customer has to be able to pay for it. The hydraulic frame press is worthwhile for carpentry. Here, all fronts for the solid wood furniture are still made in-house. (Whistling noise) The pressure presses the glue into the wood and the excess is pressed out on the side. This is then scraped off with the glue scraper. Afterwards the whole thing is smoothed out again. You can't see the feet at all. They're very close together. But first the plate has to dry. Let's continue with the table legs. They are first cut to size. They were 65 mm before, I've planed them down to 50 mm now. Finally, they measure 50 by 50 mm. And the ridge strips are also processed. These are the four legs, and these are the two ridge strips that will later keep the table top straight. And the legs are then stuck in the ridge strip. So now we finally know what the two ridge strips are good for. For further treatment of the legs we go to the circular saw. They are now cut off at an angle of six degrees. A hallmark of the table, and a step that's really tricky. I have to feel my way around a bit because I cut it at an angle, so I can't adjust it exactly to the stop. And also to do justice to the tree. You have to consider that a tree like this grows for at least 100 years. Then you have to make something nice out of it. You can't just say: &quot;I'll start thinking, if it works, then it will work, if not, then not.&quot; You have to think beforehand. After all, wood is a valuable raw material. I now drill the holes for the aluminum pins in the table legs here on the slot drilling machine. The aluminum spigots are supposed to connect the table legs with the hip bar later on. The carpenter also has to work very precisely and carefully with the machines. And of course he needs a lot of technical know-how. Leander Sommer works in his parents' carpentry workshop. The 23-year-old also did his training here. Working with precision is exactly his thing. I now draw the holes in the ridge strip here, where I then drill a hole afterwards. The aluminum pin that is in the leg here sits in the ridge bar. So now the holes come in the ridge strips. I'm going to poke it now so the drill doesn't go astray. The drill has a small centering point here, which then sits in the small pre-pierced holes. So that it doesn't tear out at the top, I use it rather slowly. When drilling, Leander really needs feeling. Now let's change the material: Leander Sommer adjusts the metal band saw. He wants to saw off the aluminum spigots from a long aluminum bar. Here, when sawing off the aluminum bolts, you have to make sure that the saw blade does not go through too quickly. I can adjust that here with the small screw. So again: The aluminum pins are later to connect the table legs and hip strips. I still have to deburr the peg so that I can get it neatly into the drilled hole. The sharp saw edges are removed. Yes, that fits. I still have enough air to glue. That's how it should be! With aluminum spigots, table legs and ridge strips , it's on to the workbench. I'm going to glue the aluminum bolts into the table leg here. It is important to use a good adhesive that also holds and distributes it evenly in the hole. The aluminum pivot connection is a specialty of the Sommer joinery. It should be more stable than a connection with the classic wooden dowels. I have to lay them out to dry now. It takes about four or five hours, then they're dry. Then I can then plane them conically and glue them to the burr strip. Speaking of drying: The freshly glued tabletop can be removed from the frame press. It is now important that I scrape away the excess glue so that it does not clog the sanding belts from the sanding machine and does not damage the conveyor belt on the sanding machine. Leander built the glue scraper himself from a plane blade. In the wide-belt sanding machine, the table top is roughly pre-sanded on both sides. &quot;Calibrating&quot; is the technical term - i.e. grinding to the desired thickness. To do this, the plate has to be run through the machine a few times. We need so many machines because we have to see that this is feasible within a certain time frame. They don't do the work for you, they just make it easier and do a lot of things much faster that you used to have to do by hand. Machines like this work with an accuracy of hundredths of a millimetre. That's good if you can achieve a good result. Leander Sommer changes the sanding belt. For the fine-tuning of the tabletop , he also needs a finer grain size. As before with the rough sanding, the table top runs through the sanding machine several times until it finally has the desired thickness. The Sommer joinery has been based in Breitscheid in the Westerwald for more than 20 years. Customers come here from all over Germany. Right from the start, Leander's parents decided to rely entirely on solid wood furniture - with success. They passed on their love of wood and furniture making to their two sons. Our table top gets its final format on the circular saw. 1.40 meters in length and 80 centimeters in width. &quot;Formatting&quot; is the name of the cut in the language of carpenters. The next step is a particularly tricky one. I will now mill the burr grooves into the underside of the table top. So a V-shaped groove, where the ridge strips are then inserted. The board here serves to guide the router. The ridge groove is the elongated indentation on the underside of the table. Milling requires maximum concentration. The counterpart, the burr tongue, must later fit exactly into the groove. That's the art. Now it really comes down to hundredths of a millimeter. Because otherwise... .. the ridge strip won't go in afterwards. Or she goes in too easy. It really has to go in really well. She is also not allowed to have a game. Precisely because the legs are connected to it, to the ridge bar. This means that if that wobbled, the whole table would wobble later. The ridge strip is a classic connection for top and legs, which is mainly used for solid wood furniture. The carpenter must already have something on it. I will now grind off the fibers that were created during the milling and grind the inside of the sides of the groove flat. So that the ridge strip slips in there afterwards. Leander grinds the sides of the groove smooth by hand. Well! The rounding at the end of the groove, which was created during the milling, has to be turned into a corner so that the burr strip later fits in perfectly. Leander Sommer chisels out these corners. (Hammering) I have to make a test piece first because I have to fit it exactly to the burr groove. Because if that's too loose, your leg will shake. And if it's too tight, I can't get it in there. Now it's getting serious. The ridge tongues must be milled to the ridge strips. First comes the sample. Ah, it's still too loose. OK, next try. The burr tongue is the opposite of the groove. It must be worked so precisely that it later sits perfectly in the groove. Not too loose and not too tight. Pretty difficult. But it's perfect now. That it wasn't pushed in further than that far by hand. But now nothing can go wrong. With the help of the test piece, Leander adjusted the spindle moulder so that he could perfectly mill the hip springs into shape. The carpenter has to concentrate a lot during this work. Hundredths of a millimeter matter. So far so good. Now it's the turn of the record again. It is processed further on the table milling machine. We're milling now. When he's here, he can tip over. You give him a little support and I'll follow up here. And then? - Then we turn. And we do the other side of the brain. Or I'll just do it here with the push stick... Should I do that the second time I turn it? If we can do it, that's fine too. A responsible task. Our table top is optically spruced up, its edges bevelled. Yes, of course I have favorite jobs. For example, cutting wood is fun, I think. And all kinds of milling work. Simply this accuracy ... When it fits, it's once again a confirmation for yourself. Are you going to the front with that? All four sides of the tabletop get their treatment. Leander and Franz Sommer have to be very accurate when milling. The sloping edges are part of Sommer's design. The heavy solid wood panel should not look so bulky. And of course look even better. Leander is satisfied with the result. It's an optical question, that's why the record looks very thin. Although in reality it is 25 millimeters thick. And now she looks like she's only an inch thick. Leander wants to continue working on the good looks of the table legs. He will plane the legs conically, meaning that they taper towards the bottom. For visual reasons, of course. The workpiece lies on the planing machine table and is pushed over the planing shaft. Again and again it's about the knives. Until the leg is much slimmer at the bottom. But now it's good. The legs look really elegant. I've now planed the table legs conically so that they don't look like clumsy elephant feet, but have a certain lightness and go better with the sloping table here. I'll grind away the planing marks here. When planing, the fibers are so torn here. I still have to grind that away. Table legs and ridge strips still feel a bit rough. That's why the sides are sanded really smooth on the edge sanding machine. Now the table legs are almost done. Was quite a lot of work! Leander has to be careful when operating the grinding machine. Don't put your hands in the sanding belt, it causes nasty abrasions. But has never happened. I'll roughly saw the bevel to size on the band saw. Because they don't saw that precisely, the band saw. Afterwards I grind it to size on the edge grinding machine. First of all, the ridge strip is only roughly sawn off. A few millimeters extra must remain, because the finishing touches are still to come. Leander first changes the sanding belt of the edge sanding machine. He uses a fine grit to grind the two ridge strips of the table to size. The ridge strips are now beveled and nice and smooth. But still not smooth enough. A little is still possible. Leander treats the legs and ridge strips with the hand grinder. The valuable elm wood should feel smooth and pleasant. Away with the machine. Legs and ridge strips are given the finishing touches by hand. Yes, because I can only round the edges a bit by hand. The machine can't do that. Or it becomes too much if I would do it with the machine. And not evenly either. Leander only has the necessary feeling with the sanding block. It's all in the mix: sometimes the carpenter uses his hands, sometimes machines. Now let's really get into the details. I made a 45 degree bevel on the bottom of the legs. This is better when standing on tile floor or uneven ground. So there is less risk of something flaking off. Our table top is also getting its finishing touches. For a wonderfully smooth surface. It looks easy, but Leander also has to be careful when working with the hand grinder. Don't sand too much in one spot. You always have to keep moving so that you don't take too much away in one place. I now have all the parts ready to assemble. The ridge strips with the holes for the aluminum pegs from the legs and the table top with the two ridge grooves. I would say the hardest part is getting the burr springs to fit nicely into the burr grooves. That they are not too tight and not too loose. Will that work? We'll know soon. But one by one. Now it has to be glued. I will now glue the legs to the ridge strips. I marked which leg fits where best. There are still minor differences. Where I noticed the leg fits better there now and the other one fits better in the other hole. Despite careful work, there is still a small difference. Glued and screwed, the table legs sit firmly in the hip bar. Leander pre-drilled the small holes for the four screws. Every leg finds its place. Sits perfectly! Now it's getting exciting: Will the ridge strips really fit exactly into the grooves on the underside of the tabletop? According to the sample it should fit. Well, let's knock on wood. The handcrafted ridge strip is what makes this solid wood table so special. She keeps the table stable. Leander tries to push in the ridge strips by hand, a real feat of strength. The ridge strips are pretty tight. The hammer must be there. Franz, can you lend a hand? Do you disagree? Then I'll throw the rest in like this. The ridge strip slides a little further into the groove. But not far enough. and what are we doing now? I'm going to put that in the frame press now and use the frame press to push the rest in. With hydraulic pressure. Sure, sometimes you just need a little more pressure. But be careful, only well dosed. So that nothing goes wrong in the end. Now it fits great, now it fits like a bomb. Such a table made of solid elm wood is really not a lightweight. Even if he looks like it. But now the table is finished, isn't it? Almost, but not quite. One detail is still missing. The ridge grooves are closed with wooden lids. It must be that much time. If you are there during the complete creation process of the piece of furniture, you see it with completely different eyes. It's like just cutting the wood or just sawing all day. The wooden covers are planed flush by hand. Because the high-quality elm table should also look perfect from below. And then the time has finally come: Our table stands on its own two feet. Leander loves these moments in his job. It's a bit satisfying that you've got something done again. We're on the home stretch. Now it's time for the surface finish: oil. This gives a certain surface protection. And it brings out the grain a bit. This makes the color even stronger. Oiled solid wood furniture simply ages beautifully. It gets a certain patina with age. And then it looks really nice. And you can sand it down and re-oil it at any time. And so work it up again. The oil brings out the color and grain of the beautiful wood perfectly. Now it's done, the elm table is finished. Many hours of work have gone into it, craftsmanship and a love of wood as a material. This is great craftsmanship. SWR 2016