Friends - hello hello hello! I wanted to bring this idea for a homemade product to life for a year and a half. As soon as the batteries ran down, or the lights were turned off, or it was generally dark. I immediately remembered what I wanted to try to do. And now the time has come. This is generally an interesting topic for me. Especially if you can do something with your own hands. I have this kit. This is a 2 part epoxy resin. I mix epoxy resin clearly by weight for more accurate proportions and high-quality polymerization of the composition. There are three more dyes in the kits, but they will not be needed at all today, they will come in handy later. I decided to cheat and interfered with a hexagon and a screwdriver, mechanized the process)) It is always necessary to mix using two containers to ensure uniform mixing. The main idea will be the powder, and not only it. I have four colors - this is a fluorescent pigment powder. I tried to stir it without forming bubbles, I was in no hurry. The particles are quite heavy and settle over time, I also tried to take this into account. Just look what happens if you turn off the light! Simply gorgeous! How do you like that?! I chose a light green color, it is brighter, and somehow I liked it more. I was looking for a form for pouring for a long time and the only thing that came up was a case from a large drill. I placed the mold in a glass, and it is more convenient to pour it, and then I will pour cold water into it, just in case, in order to avoid overheating and boiling of the resin. The next part will be the saw blade. Mechanical Saw is not simple. She is already 35 years old, she is still from the Soviet Union!!! It is made of R6M5 steel! It is so strong that a railway rail is sawn with this canvas. This steel is also called high-speed steel, it is used to create various cutting tools. Blades made of this material can withstand heavy loads and overheating. It will be an unusual knife, and it will be very unusual !!! I borrowed the shape, the sketch from the MORA knife. On the Internet I found all the sizes and its characteristics. I decided to do it according to the drawings. To leave the factory hardening, the workpiece was not overheated and constantly cooled with water during processing. Hardened steel is difficult to machine, even with power tools. I chose the MORA because - millions of fans of this knife cannot be mistaken. It is small, comfortable and practical. I don't often make knives, only when there is an interesting design idea, but I really enjoy making them. On a homemade grinding machine, I gave it the final shape. Under the video about the manufacture of this grinder, there were comments that the epoxy resin drive roller would not last even a week. I work with a grinding machine very often, for more than a year - everything is fine with the roller, and in the upper roller I changed one bearing six months ago. I didn't put gas stops, they are furniture gas lifts, for the sake of the experiment, I want to see how long they last, while everything works fine. I make the slopes on the knife blade with a simple device made from a simple 50 mm corner. To limit the movement of the blade, 6 mm bolts with locking nuts are screwed in. Compliance with the angles is ensured by the tilt of the table of the homemade grinding machine itself. I do everything in the simplest way. Also handy homemade from the last video. I have not yet made a handpiece for this stand for a drill or angle grinder. I made about 0.1-0.2 millimeters to reduce the descents. Blade sharpening 35-40 degrees. It is planned to use it as a universal camping knife and is needed not in excess sharpness, but in the durability of sharpening. Of course, my wife liked the knife, she made it clear to me that the knife was no longer mine, but hers)) ... I decided to cover the blade with a checked one and oxidize it. There will be glossy black chrome with mother-of-pearl tints. I already did this on the &quot;survival knife&quot;, if anyone has not seen it, there is a video on the channel about its creation. It implements many interesting working ideas, you have never seen such a survival knife, you will like it. There were many questions about what kind of liquid is so wonderful for such a coating! I made a separate video about this liquid and how to prepare it. All useful links are in the description below the video. I decided to make the bolster limiter from zinc, which I recently cast from old carburetors from the acceptance of metals. It is lightweight, durable, strong and will not rust. I will also oxidize it black and it will be very beautiful. Zinc is processed easily, with different tapes with increased rigidity and you're done. I blacken it with an ordinary aqueous solution of copper sulfate, quickly, simply and effectively. I will make part of the handle from the remnants of oak firewood. I bought it for heating and left a little just in case. Then I will freeze this part, the oak will acquire a very beautiful shade. There will be a muddy aged oak. I glue everything with 2-component glue. It is very convenient, it is of different colors - you can immediately see where it has not mixed up. It does not immediately seize, which gives time for correction and fixation. It is also quite liquid, entering into the smallest pores and well wets various surfaces. It is very important that the adhesive does not become brittle after polymerization. Everything is ready. At night I fixed it in an impromptu clamp of 2 studs, 4 nuts and 2 pieces of wood. It remains only to process. The workshop under construction is waiting for spring, construction has temporarily stopped, I will continue in the spring, I look forward to it. The neighbor's curious cat came. It definitely feels like spring is coming. Tired of this snow and frost already ... Finishing with sandpaper of different grain sizes, everything should be beautiful. I will stain the oak with ammonia from a pharmacy, soak it several times with moistened cotton wool and wrap it in cling film. Then impregnation with Linseed oil from the grocery store. And turn off the light - look at the main idea of the knife! If you liked it - Like, Subscribe, Bell. Not to miss the following interesting videos. All links will be in the description below the video. Finishing and will test! The knife turned out with a very unusual idea and from improvised materials at home. No, it does not shine like a lantern, but at night I will not lose it and it will always be visible. An interesting new solution for the handle. Friends! Health and Peace - to you and your loved ones. Thank you so much for watching this video, ratings and comments. See you friends.