Good morning, Anazala family. Rise and shine. Today is travel day. Oh my God, guys. There's so many crazy The place that we're going We don't want to tell you yet. I don't want to ruin the surprise. We'll tell you in a bit. However, me... Why are you hiding? Because I was trying to hide from you. So we just woke up, and this Everything's crazy. We're trying to pack. Very undemure here. Undemure. So guys, our flight is So we have to quickly pack I'm trying to get him to wake up We got a charge our laptops iPads got the kids cuz guys We still didn't tell flight fun fun fun things coming babe. Come on What do you wake up if I Yay! What's happening? You can't be cheap on this trip. You can't limit us to buy stuff. We're gonna buy every food we see. We're gonna buy everything we like. Did I not tell you? What? My credit card's getting declined. No. Yeah. What a liar. I've reached a limit. Oh! Oh! Oh! You came back. Good morning! Are you ready? Why are we not going to the airplane? Oh my goodness, you What? Hello Anazala family, good morning because we're going to Dubai! Dubai! Woo! Okay guys, if you know Dubai, It's one of the most luxurious And for whatever reason, guys, to have today is insane. The craziest thing that's upgraded to business class seats. Which, guys, guys, guys, It's literally like all It's insane. It's insane. So you guys are about We're so lucky, man. Not only that but once we arrive to Dubai with one of the best hotels Penthouse the big It's gonna be insane. He didn't even really show me Yeah Dude it's actually guys there's to fancy luxury And we're going there to say without you guys and your this would be happening right now. I can't believe it. Isn't that crazy? It's gonna be an exciting day. And that's why if you're new to subscribe so our family can grow. And make sure to click the post be a part of our journey the And that's it. Now it's time to go. Let's go. Let's go. The man is always leaving. Our flight is at 3 p.m. It's 11.37 right now. We gotta like, if we don't leave right now, so we won't get to the Dude, if we leave now, we... Because it's international. It's international, so we have to be at All the bags we packed, I know it's a lot. Oh my God, look how many. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. But we're going to be gone Yeah. That's a long time. Oh, and guys, there's someone who's You'll see him soon. So Liam is coming with us. And Ronan is ditching us. If you don't like me, just say so. We love you, bro. We love you. Be with . Yeah, I know. That's what I mean. He's acting like it's all about us. I do want to spend some time with him. Aww, that's cute. We are extremely, extremely late. It's 11.53. Isn't the plane at like 2.30 or something? 3. So if we have an hour, so Dude, we actually might not make it. I'm not even kidding. And there's rush hour. Okay, let's go, let's Guys, it turned out we're still, if we Hey, we're still okay on time, right? Did you explain what happened though? No. Our plane leaves at 3 10 so we got here but boarding closes in 20 minutes. So late she said we might not make it. And look what just happened all Why did they randomly select them? I don't know. You look sus that's why. You look like you're hiding something. If his bag came but my bag didn't. My god okay so we just we Where's Liam? Okay Liam just ditched us. Oh my god It's one of us! Oh it's here, it's here, Leo, just go! People are supposed to We're literally on-boarding. Supposed to get to gate 155. Let's go, let's go, let's go. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Do you see the line? Dude, look at this. So at least there's still a lot of people. I know, look guys, that's the gate 155. That's our plane. Can't wait to see the seats. I know! Apparently, they're sick. We can open them all towards each other, That's what I'm trying to explain, but it because you kind of have to see it. We kind of saw it in videos. It's really, really cool. It's actually really cool. She's watching the one we just posted. The newest one. Which one is that? She said I was just watching. That's crazy. Hey guys. We finally made it. We're literally the last ones. Mila, are you excited? Oh my god, this is super exciting. Tell them, we're gonna Yeah, we're gonna show you now. Yeah, I think we get situated Yeah, we'll get situated, and then Yes. So guys, we just came on the plane, called the Q Suite, one of the Let me just tell you how this works. So look, this is one, this is two, But what's exciting. You guys haven't seen the best part yet. All this opens up when the plane takes off. All this goes down, and then That's actually so cool, This door closes fully, and then you And guys, not only that, but when it's open up, so it becomes one big suite. This goes down, you told them. Here we go, it's about to go down now. You can take it this much down. Yeah. After take-off, I can Wow, thank you so much. Here we go. So this goes down all the way. And he said he could do When I was a kid, my dream Look at this kid. Well, we did it. We did it, honey. Honestly, guys, I really can't wait I feel like you guys are coming with to Dubai, like it's just exciting. And we made a promise that we're can to show you guys everything. like literally I want you guys to experiencing it we love you guys so much soon see you there okay guys there's hours and 26 minutes we're gonna be flying from Los Angeles to Doha which gonna wait there for one hour and then one hour to Dubai it's super super tour of the whole space here in a bit once everything turns into a suite. So he's opening it now here, That's actually crazy. Look at this. So now this whole thing opens. That's crazy. Look at this. It kind of goes all the Oh my. Guys, this is called the queue suite. It's the craziest thing I've ever seen. Look how it looks from top. I'm getting ready for the food. I've been trying to hide from you. I thought I'd have some Nope. Is this what I get? We're in this together. Can you clean it? And guys, this is just the plane. Wait until you see the hotel. You don't even know what the hotel is. We're going to see it together. That's what I mean. But now we're going to see So guys, Asala, we just came Dude, just a cough. I know but I have another exam guys another You know me. I can't get bad grades. Did I tell you you look good today? Did it actually look good today? Yes. So are you having fun? He said this is sick Well, if I was his on the plane I'd be really really So it's coming right now. But guys, there's just one thing I'm we get on a plane it starts out. Okay, but with the kids I know it's gonna up gross Sorry Great show them the food. I know they care about the food. Okay, guys. We already have a problem Pringles Literally we've been in the air for Oh my God. Bro. Don't worry, it's not a first class. It is a first class. Oh my gosh. I'm throwing up. No you're not. Dude, it's all dirty. Why is it dirty? There's a five second rule. It's been 30 minutes, I've Guys, don't fly with kids. Wow. I told you stop eating Nobody listens to me. The food's coming. I swear, I told you it Wait, by the way, if you think this is bad, This is just the beginning. I thought Noah was the problem. Okay guys, so the food just came. And look at this. Here you go. It's so cute. Aw, look at you, Noah. What are you eating? Look at this. Dude, it's like a full-on Hey guys, I'm going to try this right now. It's really good. You don't seem to take the time I know Okay, guys, so we have three We slept the whole time, and this is Asana. Hi, babe. Noah just woke up, good morning. Mimi's actually still asleep in there. What? I'm getting pancakes. Oh, he's getting pancakes. And guys, I'm literally finishing So basically the video that you guys I'm editing it right now for you Remember guys, the goal is to So, and if you guys don't know sure to watch the last video. You'll know more. Okay, now we land in Dubai and then we experience that we're about to go through. Good morning Anazala Family! We're officially in Dubai! And as promised we're here Oh we probably we promised you That we were gonna show you is crazy I don't know how we got it, But it's actually insane, we're so lucky Well we'll show them at the end Guys this And a balcony So a penthouse is basically Where you get it all to Thank you to you guys, and Honestly, we wouldn't have been So I just want to say thank And yeah, I hope you guys enjoy this tour. I feel like you're with us, so we're Yes. So first, we're gonna take you Then, we're gonna show you Like third, which is the most important. Pool. The pool. Oh, it's actually sick. It's actually sick. So we're currently right now Now in this whole penthouse is very It's so crazy, guys. Every little piece here is so expensive. Guys, look at this. Wait, babe, I'm showing It's insane. Look at this, guys. Look how high the ceilings are. Oh my God, this is crazy. And we didn't even show Guys, this is like a You won't even believe It's actually incredible. Look at the TV. And this isn't any TV. This is a frame TV, Which means when a frame like a picture frame like it Yeah, let's see. Oh my god See this it looks like an two seconds ago, isn't that crazy? We actually made a whole mess here guys look at this look at this are you for us by our friend thank you so much gift even though like i'm still that's crazy so wait did i just open an hermes like it was nothing can they see okay i'm coming no okay here Hermes gift is it the first one i got got you oh they're gonna see it yeah that's the most Dubai thing i've seen here this oh there's two but what is like one of their most iconic scarves in Hermes and I love the actual look the whole bag is Are we gonna show them Wait just one more unboxing. I actually waited to open it with you guys. What is it? It's another one! This one was like on the neck. Oh! This is actually cool. So much Mukhtar. This is so cool. It says Hermes Paris. That's actually so crazy. Mukhtar you're so sweet. this is cool okay so back to the tour guys ourselves but asala's too busy right now what is mila watching on youtube she way there's actually a kitchen right felt like cooking for She's so crazy, Oh la la. Everything, like I could actually Dude, there's a whole You could see balconies of other people. I still don't want to Guys, this is a five bedroom house. You guys are going to And so then, when you come this Yeah. Foyer. Foyer, that's cool. It's like. Kind of reminds me of San Francisco. It reminds me of like Mickey Mouse house. Mickey Mouse Clubhouse. Yeah, make it as close as you can. It's the same color as dad's phone. Guys, basically, so my phone is it's the same color as the door. You're good, bro. Do you see the design of the foyer? That's actually, look at this. The whole floor is actual marble. So once you get in the This is a guest bathroom, just quickly. Do you see the marble in the wall? This is so crazy. Is that what bougie, Oh my god, look at this guys. Guys, look at this. Yes, Noah. You know what thing I don't like in here? Huh? Is I can't find anybody I know! Do you know what comes in Huh? If you know, you know. If you know, you know. Let's not talk about this a lot. If you know, you know. So to the right side is the master bedroom. Which I'm actually confused. I don't know if this is a master because is actually bigger Which is crazy. Look at this. Oh Look at the room. Look at how cool this is. That's actually so crazy. Oh Where's Mila? The whole family's also here, and then there's the view here I'm still how high we are look at the car and then so this is the master bathroom this is you just what? it's actually crazy that's actually super anyways back to the tour come this way to at this literally this is the living Oh my god What's happening There's a whole fight here. Hi, Baba grandpa grandpa in action Oh my here guys look at the TV So that's the look how big this couch is oh my god Oh Good morning guys all this and you still balconies in So there's an office area here Look at the details, huh? Oh my god the details. Oh Oh, yeah, the CEO of Dude you know how expensive is one of the bedrooms also This is actually cool you guys look at the this is all like man-made water yeah guys only in dubai it's pretty good okay pretty much the same all right and now it's time for the best part no we still have the pool after yeah guys view here oh my god so guys this is the the Burj Khalifa and look at this this know how we're actually on the highest part floor of the building this is actually that's like the biggest fountain in in the world you see that that's the building that mr. Beast was on in the last way up to the building right there I think of that it's actually insane and look literally every piece of furniture you swing for entertainment look at the swing It has real plants out there. That's insane. I just want to say something I just be living this experience with you to say that we too do struggle. And we did a lot and if you're struggling gives you some some inspiration to get up. You can do it too and we all can build I mean I never thought I would be here go together guys together as a family. What Noah? The kids are so excited, but we still got the pool and of course we didn't forget Angie and Mimo I'm gonna do two Oh my thank you guys so much Angie and want us to mention your name in the next the post notifications zone and comment mention you in the next video. Now we go to the best spot in this place. So guys, bad news. Oh my god. We had the pool key we went up but Yeah. Just today too. So they were closed for cleaning Yes yes we'll show you guys that I want to post the video right away right Yes so you guys are up to date. We feel like the journey with you guys just like everything just feels changed we're of things are happening I'm about quickly post it for you guys now so you guys can be a part of the next video exciting things happening welcome to the