Hey, welcome aboard! Do one last check to Today, we're on the USS Theodore Roosevelt to do a day ULT or unit level training sortie, The plane captain has released us, our and now our director is telling us to pull forward on the aft port side of the ship. The PC tells meaning put your hook down. I drop the hook behind the aircraft to make sure that the hook Hook comes back up. Now the director is going and if everything look good, give hook check hand signal and then overall There it is. Okay, closed fist means stay where of the aircraft looking to his right, trying [He] gives us the &quot;brakes release&quot; signal with Coming forward. I look to my left to make my right to make sure it's good as well, and we Left turn. Left turn. Left turn. Now he's pointing turn, you can see that director now is by the jet Stop turn. Now come forward. Come forward. Coming forward. Coming forward...a little bumpy And...a a little tiny bit more. And...stop. There we go. So now let's take a minute to look at the JBD or It's six individual panels. Each panel's got All six panels will move in unison and those pipes are for the ship to pump You saw me take a quick glance to my left and I moved the wing fold switch into the spread position, They're spread by now. We're good to go. The JBD is designed to cool down the exhaust from a Super Hornet, which in MAX grunt, right before so it certainly needs sea So let's take an opportunity to look at left 10 o'clock. This is kind of a unique angle in gear of the airplane. From our perspective in (what's going on), so I'll point out what's You can see the director telling the pilot to hold back operator (the guy in the green shirt by fitting [that] he's about to hook up to the airplane, and a three foot long bar that's going to connect to a to the nose gear of the aircraft. Now the hold that when the aircraft goes to MIL or MAX power, unless that power is combined with the power So now the jet in catapult 4 is pulled forward. They've put the hold back fitting on the nose gear while when they're ready, they're going to pull to put the aircraft into tension. When they very front of the nose gear is going to go over back fitting pulling back on the aircraft, trying goes into tension. When we go into tension, we brake in [disengaged] and the aircraft is kind of stuck there You can see the catapult officer taking hold back fitting, making sure kind of just watching catapult 3, as There's my signature move, I hope you enjoyed that. You see the rudder pedals on catapult 3 so he's coming up on the power...wiping tremendously. Even though the jet blast deflectors in front of us, there's still a lot of hot exhaust coming around that thing. There he goes. He's off to the races. Everybody's scurries...to catapult three And now the holdback operator is the guy in airplane it's going to tell the shooter to have the launch bar can go over the shuttle and into it forward. Bring it forward. Bring it forward. There He's in tension. That hand signal means &quot;tension&quot; sure that he's clear. The shooter or the catapult signal and the run-up signal, and here he goes. This is a MIL-power cat shot. He's Good to go. You'll see the shooter point downrange... and they're off to the races. Now everybody's scurries out making room for us. Our director is slowly telling A little right...a little right. Here we go. Come Come forward...easy...and a little more. Come That hand signal: launch bar down. With my Our launch bar is now in the track to the Now one thing of note...if you look at our left 10 IFLOS or the &quot;Improved Fresnel&quot; lens...those they're de-rigging MOVLAS m-o-v-l-a-s, which is and rigging up just the normal &quot;ball&quot; as we call shipboard visual aid landing system that's used ball&quot; is inoperative, due to like a battle casualty, to work on it, or when stabilization limits around a whole lot...big pitching deck) or lastly when normally in a day like this, we get one cycle (one pilot and LSO proficiency. One thing that's neat path that's displayed to the pilot, regardless of especially helpful in situations where there's to be synced with the deck. That even though the to be above glide slope, based on a pitching the lights can tell them [the pilots] exactly where they are ...or at least where the paddles wants them to go. So it's kind of neat...when we are parked here, we You can see that it's got the green lights that &quot;the datum&quot; and we reference &quot;the ball&quot;, which is quite see here because it's not on yet. The ball if the source is above the datums then you're goes below the datums, and you're below glide path... and you're well below glide path you'll see a red ball, which is uh really bad news. You don't want a series of green lights. Those are called &quot;cut can push a button that will activate &quot;cut lights&quot;, operation can mean a &quot;little bit of power&quot;. And below basically wave off lights. When you get waved off, Okay, now we're pulling forward. The director on just about to get into tension and you can our left 10 o'clock or so communicating with the are actually operating the catapult. I'm going to Okay, there's tension. Feed off And now we're going to turn our attention &quot;me, me&quot; and he gives us the run-up signal. Going to MAX power...looking at the flight time. Everything looks good. Quick hand and there it is. Fly Navy! Well guys, if you enjoyed the jam today Buy me a beer. I'd sure appreciate it. The details are