This is a router. This is also a router And this is also a router! But one of those routers is not like the others. You can't buy it at Walmart or on Amazon, Should you also build your own router? Well... Probably not Seriously, if you're happy with how your if you don't need any extra features... If terms such as DoH, VLANs, DMZ, DNAT and If you aren't interested in networking at you probably shouldn't build your own router. I know it's a weird way to start a video, but I wanted to be realistic with you guys Not everyone should build their own router, and some of you might be better off with other which we'll talk about later in the video One of the reasons might be that the router It might not support port forwarding, custom DNS, UPNP or any other features that Now I do want to mention that there's a between your router not supporting some things and your Internet connection not supporting We're gonna talk about that later. And if you want some advanced features like demilitarized zones, split DNS and Wireguard, a custom-built router of some kind, or maybe an off-the-shelf enterprise router, Then there's also the security aspect. A lot of off-the-shelf routers run outdated that doesn't receive any security patches, which and all of the devices connected to it, at Thankfully, a lot of ISPs, at least here in have been getting better at pushing updates If you have a homelab, or host your own applications the security aspect should be even more relevant With an off-the-shelf consumer-grade router you can pretty much forget about VLANs, subnet advanced firewall zones, and other things. This is where going the DIY route or getting a more advanced pre-built router Another reason to build your own router could If you want to get a job in networking, system or maybe get a professional certification, or maybe you just like learning new things building your own router and setting up your could be the first step to getting some hands The short answer is - it depends. Whether or not you can even use your own hardware will depend a lot on your ISP, country, connection Since I live in Germany, I can only tell you So, in my particular city we have two main DSL and cable In 99% of the cases, the ISP provides you and port forwarding functionality, even on I use Vodafone Cable, and unfortunately, My Vodafone provided router can't even do Luckily, you can switch it into the so called which disables the routing functionality entirely. In the bridge mode, Vodafone Station basically You can simply connect any router you want get a global IPv4 address via DHCP, and enjoy all the benefits and freedoms of That being said, you might be less lucky depending Your ISP might not even allow using your own block certain crucial ports like 80 and 443, or limit features like public IP and port which are usually much more expensive. So please, do your own research before getting and make sure that your ISP will not give Basically, any computer that has two or more But we want something better than "fine", so here are some tips for choosing your hardware. First, the hardware should be energy efficient. Of course, you can repurpose an old Core 2 or a Sandy Bridge laptop and use that as a But do you really want to run an extra 40W On a somewhat unrelated note, I would also advise against using DDR2-era Even if you find one for cheap. You might think that since they're small They should also be low-power, but no. Those can consume as much as 25W at idle, despite their miserable performance. Trust me, I had to find out the hard way. Of course, this also depends on how cheap and whether the cost of newer, more power lower power consumption. Second, the operating system of your choice should have good drivers for the Ethernet Personally, I recommend going for Intel-based They're supported out of the box on most and the drivers have passed the test of time. Of course, you can go with something else, like Realtek, Atheros or Broadcom NICs, but they're definitely less reliable in If the motherboard of your choice has a PCIe you can also buy a PCIe Ethernet card, and the same rules apply here - Intel good, be careful and do your own research. Last but not least, I would recommend getting AES-NI is basically a cryptographic accelerator and in theory it should make the cryptography At some point, pfSense, a popular router distro, also considered making AES-NI support a requirement but walked the decision back later. That being said, you can get a system with so definitely make sure to check if the hardware Buying a cheap consumer router with OpenWRT if you have a limited budget, but I would advise against that for several 1. You might want to use another operating OpenWRT is kind of like NetBSD in terms of Since it runs on pretty much everything, But it's not everyone's cup of tea. Some people prefer pfSense or IPFire, and they definitely don't run on as many 2. In a lot of cases, consumer router devices as little as 8 or even 4 megabytes. Now, OpenWRT is pretty lightweight, but my installation still takes up around and that's with a very basic set of packages. So you probably won't be able to install on a router with, let's say, 8 megabytes 3. CPU Performance might also be a concern for you. If you're interested in building your own you probably want to run things like Wireguard, and all of that while providing a stable Most cheap consumer routers have single core which simply wouldn't be enough for a lot And the routers that do have more powerful usually cost more than building your own so there's that 4. Last but not least, a lot of all-in-one than DIY x86 routers - as you will see later. So in this video, we'll go through three A Raspberry Pi-based router A custom Intel Gemini Lake-based system from And finally, a fully custom-built PC in a We will compare the cost, performance, see what advantages and disadvantages every and try to answer the main question of this which one should you go with? Let's start with a Raspberry Pi based build. This particular system is a CM4 router board Seeed sent me this board for free, so huge but as usual, I'm not obligated to only the company didn't have a say over the content and didn't get a preview of the video before The CM4 router board comes in this gray case, and the top part also acts as a heatsink for Under the hood is Raspberry Pi Compute Module and a custom carrier board which has two Ethernet One of those ports is a pass-through for the and the other one is an extra Ethernet interface Unfortunately, this particular board doesn't on the Compute Module 4, which does result in lower performance compared One of the advantages of this particular router It's very compact, even compared to consumer It's also super power efficient. In theory, you could power it with solar energy Unfortunately, that's where its advantages The drivers for its pretty exotic USB NIC aren't included by default in the official but hey, thankfully my man Jeff Geerling has been hard at work contributing to the OpenWRT project in that regard. Instead, you can use the unofficial OpenWRT which is preinstalled on the CM4 router. It comes with a pretty tacky theme, in my and what feels like all available packages Seriously, there's everything and a kitchen Because of the CM4's hardware limitations, the router also only has two Ethernet ports, so if you use it with more than one device, you'll have to get a switch. Not a big deal if you already have one, but Finally, the price and availability are also The Seeed CM4 router costs $150 bucks on Seeed's and that includes the carrier board, the Compute Module 4 with a 32 gig eMMC, the power supply and the case. However, at the time of making this video, the availability of Compute Module 4 is pretty So bad, actually, that there are websites which track CM4 availability across different stores, kind of like with graphics cards. So as a result, you can't actually buy the Hopefully this will change in the future. Now, the price itself is not bad, at least compared to other custom router hardware. But considering that this is basically a glorified it also comes with all of the disadvantages The performance of the USB NIC is not great the software availability also leaves a lot there are no builds of pfSense, OPNSense or Raspberry Pi, and your only option is a custom build of at least for now. Still, I think Seeed CM4 router is pretty It's also very portable and power efficient, which might be an advantage for you depending Personally, I wouldn't use it as my main Now, a more practical option would be to get noname router slash appliance boxes that are They are sold by different companies, but I don't actually have one on hand, so I'm only judging it by the tech specs But let me know if you actually want me to Intel's Gemini Lake processors are sort They're usually soldered to the motherboards, they're also very power efficient and the performance is more than enough for router tasks. Gemini Lake CPUs also support AES-NI which so that's definitely a huge advantage. So this particular model is based on Intel Celeron J4125 It costs $187 for the barebones or $224 for a version with 4 gigs of RAM and What does this money buy you? Well, you get four Intel NICs, which is great, one DDR4 slot, a miniPCIe and an mSATA slot. It also comes with a 12V power brick and a Throw in a 4 gigabyte stick of DDR4, for about and a 16 gigabyte mSATA SSD, for about 5 bucks, and you get a complete router for around 200 4 gigs is more than enough for something like which wouldn't have any issues running on and the same can be said about 16gb of flash Since this router is also based on x86 hardware, it would have no issues running an official OPNSense, IPFire or any other router slash firewall OS you Since I don't have an actual router like I can't tell you how much power this exact but I do have an Asrock J4125 board handy, and that is really low. Running this machine 24/7, assuming you pay will cost you around 1 dollar 60 cents per So on paper, this definitely seems like a and you would have a pretty hard time beating the price like this even if you build your own router from scratch... Or would you? Buying from AliExpress has one major drawback and that is delivery time. Now I'm a very impatient person with poor so I decided to build my own router using This is Gigabyte IMB1900TN a thin-ITX motherboard with two Ethernet ports It's an older platform that doesn't support The good part, however, is that it takes DDR3 which is significantly cheaper than DDR4. This board also doesn't require an ATX power and can run off of a 12V DC power supply just like the AliExpress router thingy we Obviously, this is not the only motherboard you can definitely find cheaper options, but this is what I found and I think it's For the case I decided to go with this Emko It's made entirely of metal, and looks pretty good in my opinion. The build quality is solid and it's pretty I paid 25 euros or 29 bucks. If you have a miniITX case kicking around it will obviously work too. Next up, SSD. I wanted to use this 256gb NVMe SSD at first, because that's what I had kicking around, but ended up using a 32Gb M.2 SATA SSD You can get one for very cheap - 10 to 15 and you can also use a 2.5 inch SATA SSD if there's definitely enough place in the case DDR3 SODIMM RAM is pretty cheap these days, like I already mentioned. For instance, you can get this 4 gigabyte and 4 gigs would honestly even be overkill for OpenWRT Because it's very lightweight. If you can get a 2 gig stick for free - honestly, Since this board only has two Ethernet ports, I decided to get this miniPCIe dual Ethernet It comes with this nice riser cable and passes perfectly into the empty space This is one of the perks of the ThinITX form-factor if you have a normal width ITX case, you will have some empty space left for PCIe peripherals. I fixed the card with this screw to what's and it sits in there pretty tight - I don't think it's going anywhere. This particular card costs 58 dollars on AliExpress but you can also just get a switch like this TP-Link 8 port smart switch for $36. I just wanted to show that you can get multiple even if your motherboard only has two. So at the end, this is what the price for I made two 'budgets' worst case scenario where you couldn't find and didn't have any parts laying around and best case scenario where you found cheap used cheaper parts and could reuse some old like DDR3 ram. As you can see, in the worst case scenario, we do actually end up spending more money on this than on the pre-built router. But what about the best case scenario? Well, if you're sure to be smart, wait for good deals and if you're also content on having an extra box kicking around in your closet (I mean the switch), you can save around $40 dollars compared to we were talking about before. This DIY router is also prettty power efficient I'm gonna put the numbers here on the screen Now at this point you're probably wondering what about the WiFi? Out of three options that I've outlined, only the Raspberry Pi based router has built-in WiFi. And if you were to actually try and use it very disappointed by the performance. So I looked for a WiFi 6 capable WiFi adapter and the only avaiable adapter is this Qualcomm It costs 114 euros without shipping or antennas, and isn't available for puchase yet at the Personally, instead of building the WiFi I'm using a separate access point from Ubiquiti, It costs around 100 euros, so cheaper than and provides a lot of useful functions, for example advanced statistics and analytics, and the ability to use different VLANs for So here is the comparison of all three routers I will be using the router that I built as and if there's anything to write home about,