- If you have your Bible, I'm just going to take If you are interested in notes, they are available on And those of you who we're going to drop 1 Kings 19. With it, I'm going to the issue of depression. Pretty much on developing in 2022. Now you may say-- you might &quot;Well, depression You don't know what There's a lot of challenges people groups experience that enormous amount of depression. Because our church among the millennials, the has been in the last two More people are dying because they're than covid, car accidents And depression is rising and it's rampant in our generation by touching on the on how we can prevent stressful, overwhelming, First and foremost, Also I'm not a therapist So I'm going to talk I'm going to speak and I'm not going to touch or I'm not an expert in. But looking at before we go to the story of depression is a mood extreme sadness, poor loss of appetite helplessness and hopelessness. Winston Churchill said, like a black dog all my life.&quot; A young lawyer in 1800's that his friends did to keep all razors and He wrote these words: &quot;I am now the most Whether I shall be I awfully forbore This lawyer became of the United States. His name was Abraham Lincoln. Charles Spurgeon the best preacher that ever he struggled with History tells us that Spurgeon was so depressed, he would refuse to leave On one occasion his deacons to the pulpit. And this can happen to anybody. The guy we're going to look He was actually in the Old Testament; Him and Moses are in the Old Testament. Elijah was so powerful, like he could at his And this was not like Elijah was so powerful by God, that he was just talking He would command and rain God would feed him by birds. God would speak to him, and at one time he challenged on one mountain and He destroyed them. He brought the fire from heaven and eventually killed I mean this guy was the bad guy. He was crazy. He was powerful. And then Jezebel sends in chapter 19 of 1 Kings do and do and do this and if this and this and Pretty much she says, She doesn't intend to kill him because if she wanted to kill not a messenger. Jezebel is a queen Her expertise is And Elijah got so Now nothing wrong with until you start He runs and then He starts talking to God. And this is where the mistake as Christians is when we that they don't And we need to stop that. Or we tell people that A person who is depressed, Because the prayer-- they're they're own feelings. They're swimming in and you look at Elijah's and this is what he's praying. He says, &quot;Lord, A lot of us feel like And then he tells God this, Now this is the only time Elijah is used as an and a great prayer warrior. In fact, in James it says that He had the same passions, But this is the time God's &quot;I don't want you to die &quot;I actually intend and to be raptured to heaven.&quot; At his lowest point of &quot;I want to die.&quot; So sometimes when you're Because in prayer, you You can pray yourself What is the solution? We are going to look Prayer wasn't one of them. Because he went to prayer and then he actually prayed Then God does something. The first strategy, that we need to whether you're going to or being overwhelmed this is a good strategy Number one is get your Meaning, develop discipline When Elijah was the angel of the Lord came. The Bible says he and Elijah slept and These three things: Eating I know a person who mental disorders- a doctor. And he says, &quot;Many people they have depression he says, &quot;Before I I ask them, 'How was your sleep? Are you exercising? And he's like, &quot;Until in the area of physical discipline,&quot; he says, &quot;I don't put &quot;Because why should if you haven't taken Before you go and see the doctor, Look at your life, Are you sleeping, and are you exercising? You may say, &quot;It has nothing to do, Vlad, &quot;my mood, my sense &quot;my sense of being &quot;has nothing to do with that. &quot;My children are the problem. &quot;Biden is the problem. Everybody is the problem.&quot; But perhaps maybe putting aside the chips and running on the for one mile a day, setting a time when you sleep If you do that for 30 days, you will see a drastic effect on and your physical body. Your physical body Look at what God The prophet was suicidal, and the angel of the Lord does with rebuke and says, He comes to him and And he says, &quot;Homeboy, He goes to sleep, And you would think and preach hellfire message. The angel gives him and he says, Sleep, food and exercise than taking another pill. I'm not against medication but what I'm saying is if you're what you're missing sooner or later you will develop and you will lose and a created human being God has given you Don't yield that choice by living In fact, the statistic tells us a study by Dr Andrea Don 35 minutes of walking, experienced a reduction in So 35 minutes of walking, 6 days a week, and 47% of depression This study conducted at in Dallas, Texas as three hours of reduces the symptoms of as effectively as Prozac In addition, the proven in treating or extend to even such as gardening, walking Your body, as Christians is the house of the Lord. You have to take and you also have to This year I want to encourage a healthy decision, Develop healthy disciplines. If you have extra weight, where you bring your weight You will receive the dividends You will be compensated by God by giving attention If you ignore your you will experience on the length of the and also on many We have a person, me and my when we are gone. And this is not because but we love this person and is her taking care of the house. We were just gone we went out of town for a few took care of this four-legged And she took care of So when we came back, not only but she went above and beyond. She cleaned the driveway, took Jako, make sure I'm like, &quot;He doesn't This guy, his emotions are So she really --she I came to the house and the house is not but extra things that you and because of that, And me and my wife are like, &quot;You know, we should just as a new year's gift.&quot; Partially because she took she received compensation. And as I wired some money, how the Lord feels when He looks at you when when you get on that treadmill, when you say no that you know you This is not only helping you. God is pleased with you that He will compensate you. By what? Releasing endorphins. By what? By what? Improving your sense When you run, when you take care of your body, when you live a disciplined life, God will compensate you. I promise you that. You will experience the when you take care of But if this year if this year if this year you're like, and everybody should instead of taking My friend, I have a warning You will experience You will experience You will experience God will not be pleased. I'm I'm saying that God is not pleased when we don't take Elijah's first strategy from It was physically Your body is important to God. Just because your it does not mean We don't believe in that that the matter is because only spiritual That's why we pray for healing. That's why we talk about Because your physical He created it. He heals it. He will reward you He will raise it from It matters to God. Your body matters to God. You want to walk this Develop good stress. You know what good stress is? It's taking care of your body. Because it's stressful. Nobody likes to run. Nobody likes to take Nobody likes [inaudible] But if you focus it will beat the bad one. The second thing I want is after he slept, he the Bible says that 1 Kings 19:3, it says the &quot;he arose and ran for his life, &quot;and went to Beersheba, and left his servant there.&quot; This year, I want you to make a Now the idea of health for you've already decided that, maybe your spouse &quot;&quot;Hey, you're fat.&quot; Or, &quot;Hey, if you keep doing Our society tends to kind of, there's this pressure to take care of our health. Everybody does that and to some degree, But the second thing, that society will not The second cause of Elijah's. Elijah was a very lonely man. In fact, when he brought he told the Israelites, So he's telling them, And you would think, &quot;Oh, okay.&quot; But it's actually something He always was lonely. Because then he tells &quot;I alone am left.&quot; He says again, And in this verse we read with his sermon and then he and goes by himself. It's not that nobody is that Elijah on purpose, Now maybe he was too powerful, maybe he was too anointed, maybe everybody never I don't know the real reason. But one of the things in that mountain and &quot;You're going to have and you're going to have to When covid hit the United States you know, masks, social And from Dr Faucci they're saying right now that the restrictions that we are going to be worse Because as humans, we The first thing that God when He created &quot;It's not good for Something happens to your Something happens with your when you're alone. You were never You have to choose this If you are afraid of community release those hurts because those hurts are not Maybe you are easily or maybe you're one of always get in a place where and that thing about you have to leave that behind because community There is no perfect community, but each one of us needs Few practical things: One, Prioritize being Structure meetings Don't just like, well once Make it a weekly God was so specific about that that He created Sabbath Sabbath was not simply and going to Home Depot and catching up Sabbath for Israel was a time in a good meal, you turn celebrating God and That was what thousands And that my friend when we spend time Maybe your family maybe your children they're not of the same it does not mean that you cannot put aside and get together and This year make a you will spend time It will do something and it's also something Secondly, make a that you will join Maybe you've never and the idea of being who potentially could and make you like confess stuff, that's not what our But you have this weird thing like an AA meeting or something, you have to get up and say, &quot;My name is John I want to let you know, first of all, small groups Or maybe you're like, I have so many friends on Most of those friends and most will not show up to your They don't even You need to have tangible and who will help you. Come on somebody! In few weeks we're and we're going to have many They will last about ten we have provided child you can drop off your It's so important. This is where at Hungry Gen, is through our small groups. I want to invite you this Don't wait until that &quot;Well, I'll see if I have The devil will always find Make a decision. For ten weeks, my church is I'm going to be I'll find new friends, and I'll be in the place Number three, make a decision Not to skip church. I understand that there's that specifically says don't But the Bible talks do not miss the as it's a habit of some. Don't skip church. Make a decision. On Sunday But even when you're We got you covered. Some people go to the when they are hatched, Only three times in their life. So go to church more hatched, matched and dispatched. Don't be a CEO Christian where Be a person that makes to the best of my ability That doesn't mean if you that something is bad, Make a decision to be in church. I'm committed to a local even more than I've been as of right now I've And when I am not preaching Just because I'm not preaching, it doesn't mean I'm there to serve, and I'm there to be there. Why? Because the church needs Amen. Don't be alone. Don't be and when went and said, Well, why did you And that's why a lot &quot;Oh, I don't have any Nobody's showing up.&quot; But when the call is to are you saying, &quot;Ah, When the time is to come to I want you to break Break that off this year Don't be an organ in the bank. You know there's bank organs? There's banks that actually It's a living organ that but it happens to God wants you to be not an organ in the bank. Don't be this whole thing No, you don't need but You want to be in the body It's kind of like if &quot;Well, I don't need Vlad.&quot; Ah, yes and no. If my hands would say, It's sort of not really. You need the body You are an organ in the body. Do not be an organ in the bank. Number three, I want you Is that when he and that's something When he receives food and he gets enough something we are going to do; he goes on for 40 days, in verse 8 of chapter 19, &quot;So he arose, and ate and drank; &quot;and he went in the strength and forty nights as far as He escaped to extended fasting. Elijah fasted for And he went in the for 40 days and 40 nights. That indicates to us for 40 days and 40 nights. Now, I understand we people who are for the first so I'm going to be But I believe, Christians practicing fasting. Jesus said, &quot;When you fast&quot;; not, &quot;If you fast.&quot; You were created to fast. How do I know that? Because the first meal You're breaking your fast. You were created by God to fast. Fasting is good for you. Now if you're nursing mom or if maybe you're working where you I am not talking But I'm talking to that is sitting in this room to practice fasting. Elijah, he runs from Jezebel but I want you to He doesn't run to a club, he doesn't run to his ex, he doesn't run through and buys some weed, Elijah, he doesn't go Elijah runs and escapes Now I don't recommend but twenty-one-day Maybe a three-day is A seven-day is &quot;Vlad, what do you I mean by fasting is for spiritual reasons. This is not a diet, where This is not a simple, so I can lose these pounds.&quot; The benefit of but the cause of fasting is always spiritual. Now there's nothing wrong fasting one meal, But I want to challenge you if you've never and you are in good health, and you have enough fat Like the Bible says about for many days and you're good, you got it; you can go in the strength I want to challenge contemplate, just ask the Lord if that's something He would and see what God will do. Last year when we did I will be very honest with you the last time I attempted was twelve years ago. That was when I was single, I did not last twenty-one On the seventeenth or And partial is good But I got so scared that I quit my fast, and I was like, And since that day I became I thought that extended fast is Like if you really like next twenty-one You meet the Lord as you And so my friend, he practiced the twenty-one it felt like it was Because every I never saw it on him. I Because when I fast because you see I almost My whole face is shrunk, When he fasts, nothing is And so he would you And he wouldn't And last year I really felt like of extended fasting and because now I'm married, and And so we decided with the A young man-- an older I see him as a young man. In my small group, came to And when he came to our he's drinking water, and he says &quot;Oh, I'm &quot;Well, you've been in church and you just recently He says, &quot;I know.&quot; And So he had businesses and and he prided himself that he didn't or any other water; And I was like, &quot;Well, I'm blessing for that.&quot; 'Cause you know people or anything in their water to but he prided was only all 21 days. But last year by God's grace, I was able not only I was able to Now, don't clap for me. This is not to-- I want to tell Right now looking at I'm actually very excited. This is weird. I was never as I am excited I really believe God's incredible and It will help you to I'm not saying alone this, but it will help you Elijah, when he was depressed Maybe you're trying to May I give you a Extended fasting. You might say, We have the PDF right behind me and we can give it to God will help you. But the secret you have to go in the If you fast and you don't develop what's going to happen the food you're not eating instead of feeding on the which is the Word of God. First three days will be hard. First three days headaches and especially if you you will feel a little About the fourth day, Your flesh begins to shut down and your spirit begins Your mind becomes sharper, you become more and after that As long as you you will be able for the glory of God. Are you with me? This is no pressure but if it's something that I want you to join us this year. May your success I made more money but And if you choose that and an accident, don't drop the ball, Don't guilt-trip yourself. You didn't lose your salvation And for those of you and very heavy &quot;You know what I want to encourage you where it's no sweets, I said sweets twice because But this is my rule for people If it gets through the As long as you don't Because I know people and grind it. I was like, &quot;Gabriel, You don't need to fool anybody.&quot; But hey, if it really helps you. Number four-- The Bible says, and that's taking care of Number two is we see that Number three is fasting. And number four is and the Bible says this: &quot;and spent the &quot;and behold, the word and He said to him, 'What 1 Kings 19:9. Number four, and this is what I want to is to make a decision Experience God in His Word. According to the &quot;Seventy-eight percent of &quot;An average household &quot;but the problem is that most &quot;to a Bible that they don't read. &quot;Just 11% have &quot;and majority of 30% have no more read than So that means that 11% and I will not ask whoever I don't want to But statistically, 11% of have read the Bible And it's not because we because on the average, an American spends two hours and four hours a My goal is not to tell you My goal is not to, That's not the goal. we shave off some and we bring the You have to find your cave, and the Word of the Lord If you want to have I want to challenge and to have new Make God's Word as If you read the Bible every you will finish the If you read the Bible you will finish the If you read the Bible you will finish the If you read the you will finish the If you read the Bible for two you will finish the I want to encourage you to I am not against reading The goal is to read the Whether you read you read one chapter a day, but read the Bible Because the Bible is that's God-breathed. (breathing) God actually breathed, (breathing) He exhaled into this. Every time you The only book. Not one book, &quot;How to win &quot;Rich dad poor dad&quot; So many books in the world. None of them are God-breathed. Even genealogy is God-breathed. Even Book of Leviticus and The Bible doesn't The Bible is the Word of God. The Bible is powerful, It's the only Book will continue to speak to you. This is God's presence. The Word of God came to Elijah. Have you noticed the Why? Because the Word walks. The Word talks. The Word transforms. The best decision it's good to run, it's it's good to be in it's very important that you but my friend, I'm going to tell is if you carve every single day and you pick a Bible with and you sit every single even if it's one chapter and you sit there your meditate on it Your life will never be Statistics says the following: A key discovery from &quot;That Christians who &quot;four or more times a week, &quot;look radically different from &quot;In fact the lives of Christians &quot;most days of the week as the lives of non-believers.&quot; Let me say it again. ''The lives of Christians &quot;at least four times look the same as the The Bible makes And this is what statistics found: &quot;Someone who engages the &quot;is 228% more likely to &quot;407% more likely to &quot;59% less likely to 30% less likely to If you're spending your free as a young guy, listen to me. And maybe you've or defenses against The best defense &quot;Your word I have that I might not sin against The secret to beating and a lot of emotional problems., is consistent diet If you don't feel like reading If you don't have time, make Even if you're coming &quot;Man, I'm not sure if I'm going to tell you one thing. If you make a decision to take with this Book and you your life will never be I promise you that. The Word of God sharper than any &quot;This book of the law &quot;but you shall meditate &quot;And then you will make and then you will The Bible says that the the blessed man; he doesn't sit, but he meditates in the And he shall be like a of living water. Whose and he will bear and whatever he This is the power of And the Bible says Elijah and he gets to the cave, Every morning when God will come to you Huh! Mm-hmm! Every time you wake whether it's in the or during your as you're on the and after you've done scrolling, after you've done after you've done or what is happening you open your Bible app; the You're like, &quot;Man, When you read the When you read the I want to challenge this year with few practical Number one is Make a decision to Whether you read through the The goal is to I used to read the Bible I found that challenging got the best of me and sometimes especially in the Bible app, I opened the Bible app just so that I don't Confession time. There were times I let the and I left my phone, just so that I could Now few years ago, the Lord and I no longer read But I still read every single and I usually finish And this is why. Because the second thing is to read the Bible as a study Why? When you have a study Bible, that can help you to One of the reasons people is because they don't How did Cain get his wife? What about, did Adam Okay, the Bible commentary But there are so many And behind me there that I would and read the Bible through it. The goal is not to The goal is to read to be fed, to understand and have it speak to you. The third thing that I want to is this: is to download a Why? Because most of us then we should. And instead of going in and saying, &quot;I will spend That's not going to happen. That will fail three I'll just be very &quot;Oh, I'm just going to Yeah, but then you're on something else. This is what I would instead of trying to replace them with good ones. And make a decision you will spend some minutes So that you will put Are you with me? Read the Bible daily. Get a Bible study right now, currently, I'm that's why I'm meaning, as I read two then I reread them in I want to understand. I want I want the Lord to come and He does, and He in the cave of His Word. Amen. Just praying, if you you're just expressing but when you are reading, you're letting God and He can pull you out from Amen. Number five, and we are coming to an end, I know this was longer actually it's about Number five, live for a And the Bible says that God's &quot;Go, return on your way to and when you arrive, anoint.&quot; So God gives Elijah He gives him a purpose. According to Victor Frank, the Nazi concentration this very new way and psychologists that you find meaning in or doing a deed. By experiencing something Or by attitude we take Dr Carl Menninger, once gave a lecture and he was answering and someone said, &quot;What if a person felt nervous Most people thought he would say, &quot;Go and see a psychiatrist To their astonishment, &quot;Lock up your house, find somebody in need &quot;To overcome discouragement,&quot; he said, &quot;do not get involved in the I want to encourage one of the best ways to fight and this almost feels is to find a cause Find a cause and Pastor Chris Hodges shared a church was doing and he was on the verge of He was about to admit because he felt so empty. He was the associate which was very large Very successful, had finances, no problem; marriage, no problem; Had everything anybody ever In the year 2000, he is almost on a almost like mental breakdown, about to submit but decides to take twenty-one During a twenty-one day He sees a large auditorium, and him ministering And God gives him Eventually goes to Bellingham, Today, it's the second largest 22 years later and he says this: &quot;What pulled me is God giving me a purpose.&quot; One of the things that can help is having a cause If you're in this room let me just speak for just who are maybe you are on the verge of suicide. Number one is that you don't Suicide is not a solution. It's a permanent decision As Christians, we believe not the rope. As Christians, we believe right now is maybe you've you fell into something that and nobody will maybe you're like Judas, and there is a weight of sin that you feel like the only Listen to me very carefully. If you're watching, re-watching, or if you're sitting you don't need Somebody already His name is Jesus Christ. Suicide is not your Something a therapy, a doctor is forgiveness of sin. Something I can offer the Man I'm talking about That means that you don't you don't need to you don't need to pretend It hurt somebody. It's wrong. But there is Somebody who and Judas, you don't because somebody on the hill of Calvary All you gotta do is come to But maybe you're here with the problems of life, the kids, the wife, and you don't know maybe there's just challenges and honestly, there's nothing to change that situation. I want to tell you something. Still, if there is that is hope for you. The Bible says, &quot;God makes for those who love God.&quot; The Bible doesn't say but He can turn around if you love Him, and if you don't drop the ball go into the Word, go into God can supernaturally in the way you have Elijah wanted to kill himself but God planned to take him Your current mood and is not an indication of what in next three months. How you feel right now, it may feel like you're at and there is only darkness. Nobody's serving you. And God says, &quot;Elijah &quot;There is still 7,000 people &quot;and I don't want I want to take you gloriously I want to challenge you today, don't end your Even if you've attempted to change that and you said, &quot;That's Listen, if God doesn't He will supply you with strength. But there is hope for you. Another personal medicine is not a sign Just because just because you fasted, and emotions of go see a doctor. Taking medication is In the Bible, we see in heaven, there and these leaves In Ezekiel it says, &quot;These In the Bible, one of the was a good doctor. Christians were the pioneers In fact, the first hospital that turned into a hospital. Why? Because Christians was a great physician and therefore we should be at not shaming them Now will medicine but it will treat you and whatever you're going through, and help you to get Apostle Paul, the great tells young Timothy, instead of telling him he says, &quot;Take alcohol for your That tells us, as Isaiah and he says &quot;You're going to die, and then God reverses and Isaiah gives them &quot;Take some of nature and you will recover.&quot; God can use medicine. Don't be afraid Don't be afraid to Don't be afraid to Do not simply say, &quot;Well, I just need to Well, if you've been and it's not changing, go see For the family's sake. For the sake of your It's not a sign And anybody who says The last thing that I want Depression is not a pet It's a pest that should Ultimately behind every Elijah did not have really or his diet, Elijah had a force It was Jezebel that A lot of times, behind extended periods is actually And medicine cannot They can help with but they cannot If you've taken medicine, if you've done all the and you're seek deliverance. Come to our Get delivered. Because there is such a thing there's such a thing of There is such a thing the Bible says In 1 Samuel 16, and it made him manic. He started to throw spirits, So there is such a This is not just portrayed in activity movies. There are spiritual forces. I'm not saying every but there are demonic spirits that cannot be removed through but can only be removed Amen. So these are the lessons that Let's prioritize our health. Let's prioritize community. Let's prioritize fasting. Let's prioritize putting Let's live with a cause. And if you're going through suicide is not a solution. Medicine is not And deliverance it might be a necessity. Amen.