First, a video. Yes, it is a scrambled egg. But as you look at it, I hope you'll begin to feel Because you may notice is that the egg is unscrambling itself. And you'll now see the yolk And now they're going to be And we all know in our heart of hearts that this is not the way A scrambled egg is mush -- An egg is a beautiful, sophisticated thing that can create even more such as chickens. And we know in our heart of hearts that the universe does not travel In fact, this gut instinct is reflected in one of the most the second law of thermodynamics, What that says basically is that the general is to move from order and structure to lack of order, lack of structure -- in fact, to mush. And that's why that video And yet, look around us. What we see around us Eric Beinhocker estimates there are some 10 billion SKUs, That's hundreds of times And they're being traded by a species who are linked by trade, into a global system So here's a great puzzle: in a universe ruled how is it possible to generate the sort the sort of complexity and the convention center? Well, the answer seems to be, the universe can create complexity, but with great difficulty. In pockets, there appear calls &quot;Goldilocks conditions&quot; -- not too hot, not too cold, just right for the creation of complexity. And slightly more complex things appear. And where you have you can get slightly more complex things. And in this way, complexity Each stage is magical because it creates the impression appearing almost out of nowhere We refer in big history to these moments And at each threshold, The complex things get more fragile, more vulnerable; the Goldilocks conditions and it's more difficult Now, we, as extremely complex creatures, desperately need to know this story of how the universe creates complexity and why complexity means And that's the story But to do it, you have do something that may, at first sight, You have to survey the whole So let's do it. (Laughter) Let's begin by winding the timeline back 13.7 billion years, to the beginning of time. Around us, there's nothing. There's not even time or space. Imagine the darkest, and cube it a gazillion times And then suddenly, bang! A universe appears, an entire universe. And we've crossed our first threshold. The universe is tiny; It's incredibly hot. It contains everything so you can imagine, it's busting. And it's expanding at incredible speed. And at first, it's just a blur, but very quickly distinct things Within the first second, energy itself shatters including electromagnetism and gravity. And energy does something it congeals to form matter -- quarks that will create protons and leptons that include electrons. And all of that happens Now we move forward 380,000 years. That's twice as long as humans And now simple atoms appear Now I want to pause for a moment, 380,000 years after the origins because we actually know quite a lot We know above all It consisted of huge clouds and they have no structure. They're really a sort of cosmic mush. But that's not completely true. Recent studies by satellites such as the WMAP satellite have shown that, in fact, there are just tiny differences What you see here, the blue areas are about a thousandth than the red areas. These are tiny differences, but it was enough to the next stage of building complexity. And this is how it works. Gravity is more powerful So where you get slightly denser areas, gravity starts compacting clouds So we can imagine the early universe And each cloud is compacted, gravity gets more powerful the temperature begins to rise and then, at the center, the temperature crosses of 10 million degrees, protons start to fuse, there's a huge release of energy, and -- bam! We have our first stars. From about 200 million years stars begin to appear billions of them. And the universe is now and more complex. Stars will create for crossing two new thresholds. When very large stars die, they create temperatures so high that protons begin to fuse to form all the elements If, like me, you're wearing a gold ring, it was forged in a supernova explosion. So now the universe And in a chemically more complex universe, it's possible to make more things. And what starts happening young stars, all these elements combine, the energy of the star stirs them around, they form particles, they form snowflakes, they form rocks, they form asteroids, and eventually, And that is how our four and a half billion years ago. Rocky planets like our Earth because they contain So we've crossed a fourth Now, the going gets tougher. The next stage introduces entities significantly more vulnerable, but they're also much more creative and much more capable I'm talking, of course, Living organisms are created by chemistry. We are huge packages of chemicals. So, chemistry is dominated That operates over smaller which explains why you and I Now, what are the ideal What are the Goldilocks conditions? Well, first, you need energy, but not too much. In the center of a star, that any atoms that combine But not too little. In intergalactic space, there's so little energy What you want is just the right amount, and planets, it turns out, are just right, because they're close to stars, You also need a great diversity and you need liquids, such as water. Why? Well, in gases, atoms move that they can't hitch up. In solids, atoms are stuck together, they can't move. In liquids, they can cruise and cuddle and link up to form molecules. Now, where do you find Well, planets are great, and our early Earth was almost perfect. It was just the right to contain huge oceans of liquid water. And deep beneath those oceans, at cracks in the Earth's crust, you've got heat seeping up and you've got a great So at those deep oceanic vents, fantastic chemistry began to happen, and atoms combined in all sorts But of course, life is more How do you stabilize those huge molecules that seem to be viable? Well, it's here that life introduces You don't stabilize the individual; you stabilize the template, the thing that carries information, and you allow the template to copy itself. And DNA, of course, that contains that information. You'll be familiar Each rung contains information. So, DNA contains information And DNA also copies itself. So, it copies itself and scatters the templates So the information spreads. Notice that information The real beauty of DNA though As it copies itself, there tends to be an error. And what that means It's accumulating new ways because some of those errors work. So DNA's learning and it's building greater And we can see this happening For most of that time of life on Earth, living organisms have been single cells. But they had great diversity, Then from about 600 multi-celled organisms appear. You get fungi, you get fish, you get plants, you get amphibia, you get reptiles, and then, of course, And occasionally, there are disasters. Sixty-five million years ago, an asteroid landed on Earth near the Yucatan Peninsula, creating conditions equivalent and the dinosaurs were wiped out. Terrible news for the dinosaurs, but great news who flourished in the niches left empty by the dinosaurs. And we human beings are part that began 65 million years ago with the landing of an asteroid. Humans appeared about 200,000 years ago. And I believe we count Let me explain why. We've seen that DNA learns in a sense, it accumulates information. But it is so slow. DNA accumulates information some of which just happen to work. But DNA had actually generated it had produced organisms with brains, and those organisms They accumulate information, they learn. The sad thing is, when they die, the information dies with them. Now what makes humans different We are blessed with a language, so powerful and so precise that we can share what we've learned that it can accumulate And that means it can outlast the individuals and it can accumulate And that's why, as a species, and that's why we have a history. We seem to be the only species to have this gift. I call this ability collective learning. It's what makes us different. We can see it at work We evolved as a species but then you see humans migrating into desert lands, into jungles, into the Ice Age tundra of Siberia -- tough, tough environment -- into the Americas, into Australasia. Each migration involved learning -- learning new ways of exploiting new ways of dealing Then 10,000 years ago, exploiting a sudden with the end of the last ice age, humans learned to farm. Farming was an energy bonanza. And exploiting that energy, Human societies got larger, And then from about 500 years ago, humans began to link up globally through shipping, through trains, through telegraph, through the Internet, until now we seem to form of almost seven billion individuals. And that brain is learning at warp speed. And in the last 200 years, We've stumbled on another energy bonanza in fossil fuels. So fossil fuels and collective explain the staggering complexity So -- Here we are, back at the convention center. We've been on a journey, I hope you agree this is a powerful story. And it's a story in which humans But it also contains warnings. Collective learning is a very, and it's not clear I remember very vividly living through the Cuban Missile Crisis. For a few days, the entire biosphere seemed to be on the verge of destruction. And the same weapons are still here, and they are still armed. If we avoid that trap, We're burning fossil fuels at such a rate that we seem to be undermining that made it possible to flourish over the last 10,000 years. So what big history can do is show us the nature and the dangers that face us, but it can also show us And now, finally -- this is what I want. I want my grandson, Daniel, and his friends and his generation, throughout the world, to know the story of big history, and to know it so well that they understand and the opportunities that face us. And that's why a group of us are building a free, online syllabus in big history for high-school students We believe that big history will be a vital as Daniel and his generation face the huge challenges and also the huge opportunities ahead of them at this threshold moment in the history of our beautiful planet. I thank you for your attention. (Applause)