Wow, we're seeing a lot of stock that we haven't seen before Nat. Yeah. This guys are so cool. Film this guy. How cool is he? We heard some rumors from local dealers that there's some sort of like... Mainland China exhibition. Yeah, like a watch exhibition or something. In Shenzhen, China. Every single watch they put on the screen, someone adds it to cart, they instantly check out, they get the wire instantly through WeChat. And it's like sold. Yeah, it's just sold, sold, sold. See all of this, all sold. Really? Everything, yeah. Every time they sell something, they're like ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. Yeah, it's just... I feel at home, seriously. I feel so natural, like in my element. I feel more comfortable here than I do in Hong Kong. Same. Are you excited? Yes, let's see. Let me help you. Oh, thank you. You're welcome. You can sit over there. You can sit over there. These all... They're all leaving, huh? They're all leaving, huh? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, Nat, this is pretty cool. Yeah, it's nice. We saw a lot of watch people leaving as we came in. Yeah. So I'm not sure if it's finished or not. Yeah. But at least this seems to be the right place, right? Yeah, because I just asked the receptionist. Yeah. They said the second floor. Okay. So let's have a look. Sure. Here we go. Hello. Oh, nice. Interesting, huh? See, a lot of people have live stream here. Alright, shall we? Let's have a look. From where? Let's go this way. I'm a bit lost. Okay. Yeah. Nice. Interesting. This is nice. Oh, (JLC) bamboo. It's like the white gold bamboo that we have. That's the bracelet version. And look, this is the VC bracelet, the one that we sold. This is the ladies' version. It's nice as well. That means we should come here more. Yeah, definitely. Look at that guy in yellow shirt. How much is this? I don't know. Did you buy this from ***? Haha Haha. Onyx. Stone. Is it Onyx? Yes. Let me have a look. Do you often go to Hong Kong and Mainland China? I see you every time. Are you from Mainland China? I'm from Shenzhen. Where is your watch shop? Shenzhen. Oh, your watch shop is in Shenzhen. Where is it? Buji. Putian? Buji Longgang. Oh, Longgang. Longgang. This is white gold. I know. I don't want it. There are a lot of... Cracks? No. Something dirty on the dial.. Fungus. Fungus? Fungus? No cracks. Fungus? Is there.. Fungus? Yes. What's your best price? What's the best. This gold weight is higher than usual.. What? Ok then I will give you the extra gold. I'll just keep this (the watch head). No, I didnt start high. I bought it for like 15,000 RMB ($2,200 USD).. I'll give you 16,000 RMB. Little less.. First time buying from you. I'll give you 15,800 RMB 15,800 RMB Can you clean the surface for me? It's working, it's working 14,000? No.. I can't Ok, I'll take a look at the other ones How much is this one? This is... 18,000RMB. 18,000.. This is also very similar to the one that we have. Yeah? What is it? Show me. It's a small ladies protocole with factory Pave set diamond bezel and diamond dial as well. It's nice. How much is this? Boss, you have to be more reasonable with us No, it's a VC (Vacheron Constantin), I can't help it If you go to Hong Kong you'll have to pay like 49,000 RMB We came all the way here to look for you Yeah This is not Hong Kong anymore We're not talking about Hong Kong anymore, we're in Mainland China This is also very interesting It's a nice little Ladies Vacheron In white gold with a lapis dial Super nice, super cute Something like Thomas, they would like to buy this sort of stuff Yeah, good stone as well I'm going to take a picture of this What about the dial, the stone, is it okay? Stone is good, yeah A lot of these watches, I don't know if it's humidity But they all have like fungus Oh Yeah I'll show you some like macro photos later But it's very strange Yeah Yeah Yeah, this one's okay but Price is not amazing, it's okay Average Alright, I think we should walk, have a look We should go around and have a look first, okay? Alright Okay, we'll walk around first Thank you, we'll walk around We'll come back later, okay? Hey boss, hello How much is this? 110,000 110,000? Watch only? Watch Only. 238? (18238) Let's have a look at this Which one? It's a Day-Date 18238 Yellow gold But quite a cool dial Look at this dial It's like a Phoenix Phoenix diamond set dial A lot of diamonds Yeah Interesting Original Original? It's factory, yeah Watch only? Watch only Even this is a pretty good deal already It's quite nice Yeah? Yeah I like it Do you want to buy it? Price is not that good Yeah, average Let's have a walk first, okay? We can't We can't buy something at every booth We're going to do a round first and then decide Thank you Thank you Nice, Tridor, huh? Want to ask? This is the stock that you just saw in the chats Yeah Asked about what, the RMs? Not yet We'll do a round first Interesting, interesting Yeah, this is so beautiful What? These two are so nice Look at this (Patek Nautilus) 5800 In a cream dial So beautiful It's nice And they have two Wow And this mini (Patek) Aquanaut So small It's so interesting, here you can touch all the watches Yeah, they don't care, right? Yeah Interesting Oh look It's a cute little Cute little Cartier here Look at this So hidden Yeah Ah the straps are nice. Don't forget the loupe. Yeah, I know I think it's a 90s one I'm so fascinated by the live stream Whole team working together Yeah And the way they auction is crazy Wow Amazing Wow, look at this It's like a Chinese edition Look at this 1997, July 1 It's to commemorate some date I don't know what it is though Boss, how much is this? I think 40,000 40,000 40,000 Show me It's a Tiger Eye Piaget Stone dial Tiger Eye with bezel as well Original buckle? No 40,000, that's a lot That's like already $6,000 7,000 USD.. Very strong.. Is this a Paget? Chopard. Ahh.. Thank you Not interested in selling anything to me Alright, let's go On to the next She's playing games Some more treasure here Nat! Oh Wow, beautiful Hey boss, hello Hello How much is this? This is 39,000 39,000 Cat's Eye Stone. I know. Cat's Eye Yeah Is this original? I don't think so It might be aftermarket.. Look at this, Nat This is something crazy Show me It's like a Patek bangle I don't know if the strap is original or not But the watch is amazing Like this Sort of a Horizontal ellipse shape With beautiful Baguette diamond bezel But this really interesting white gold bracelet It's got a Patek buckle But who knows if it's original or not I'm not sure The owner's not sure, right? Yeah Yeah, even the seller's not sure Nobody knows But it's quite cool Thank you Nice You know what's amazing? There's literally no security at these shows Not at all It's so easy for us to get in No ID check, no nothing And then all these watches are just placed out in front Yeah, very interesting But this is China So China's very safe Yeah, if you take a watch You're gone, you disappear No way, no way you can hide Yeah Nah, it's like You disappear from society They just lock you up, right? A nice 5-digit white gold Day-Date They all have their WeChat here Yeah Hey, boss How much is this? Too Expensive don't buy it. How much? Too expensive A full set? Or a watch only? Watch only, but the dial is expensive. I know. How about this one? The blue one? The blue one price is ok.. 238 (18238)? Yeah 18238. Not bad 135,000 The blue one The full set is 135,000 Yeah It's not too bad It's like 30 grand Sorry? 30 grand for a full set 238, 18238. Very interesting dial What dial is it? It's like an electric blue Yeah, very sharp Very good condition This one This 18038 18038 Strong I can give you a national inspection report It can prove that the movement is working properly This is a nice one It's a red vignette 18038 038 It's T-Swiss T Which means it's a 038 single quick set And it's got super cool fluffy lume Really nice Show me Actually If you want to talk about the price We're at the Shenzhen exhibition The price is high 30 G's It's so cool here You can film whatever you want Yeah, right? I don't need to hide it Yeah You have the Rolex King Midas And then you have the The VC 'Phidias'. Show me How cool is this? It's like a similar model to the overseas Yeah But a different bracelet design Yellow gold Factory diamonds And baguette diamond indices as well Right All original It's automatic Which is rare for this model It's a big bracelet too Nice I really like it How's the price? They're asking like $20,000 USD or so Yeah Which is strong for this model But you can't find another one Impossible This was like Limited before limited edition Is it working? Yeah Certificate? Watch only Watch only Yeah It's amazing I love how you can touch everything Yeah And you can film everything Yeah We don't need to hide in the shadows anymore They're so chill Look at this Interesting Hello Is this original? I don't think s.. It's aftermarket yea? Yeah. It doesn't look that neat. Yeah Nat I feel at home Seriously I feel so natural Like in my element I feel more comfortable here Than I do in Hong Kong Same A lot of people are gone already Look at the empty table here I know Alright, keep going? Yeah, keep going I'm gonna hurry up, okay? See these people They're sitting on the table Yeah They're having a party her. They just split their drinks haha. They're too relaxed It's like they're having a party Hey boss How much is this? 35,000 RMB. Watch only? Yeah How heavy is it? Do you know? I think more than 60grams.. Yeah But this is a new model It's not that old Yeah, Nat, Look at this Gerald Genta, but I've never seen this dial before Come, have a look Look at this It's got a crazy crystal Mother of Pearl dial Mother of Pearl dial And then the crazy hands Wow An amazing bracelet Original Everything is original Beautiful How much is it? Watch only? Yeah, watch only It's about $6,000 or $7,000 AUD. Not too bad Interesting watch Hello Can I have a look? Sure, have a look Thank you It's time to close Let's go We're too late It's okay, have a look Okay How much is this? One moment.. Let me find you our boss.. Mingyu, This boss wants to have a look. Is it original? It should be Aftermarket.. Let me check, Scan here, its faster than my phone haha.. But it doesnt say.. I think it's aftermarket. How much is this? 68,000 RMB. How about this one? 34,000 RMB. How heavy is this one? Is it written here? Here Congratulations, baby It's number 34 Look at this What is it? It's a yellow gold AP Hand winding Very strange octagonal shape Black dial, lacquered dial Yellow gold It's hand winding I think it's 65 grams or so The shape is very similar to the one we just sold Do you remember? Kind of Yeah, kind of We came too late You see all of this All sold Really? Everything Everything here is sold So we're too late They're doing live stream A lot of people are buying from live stream These ones here are aftermarket as well Amazing Sorry Listen to the way they speak It's amazing This one shouldn't be this long It's aftermarket This one is longer Yeah, thank you Thank you Alright, let's go next If this were factory, you have to pay more than 400,000 RMB. This is all aftermarket It's 24-year-old It's not easy to get Amazing Have we checked here? We have, right? No, we haven't I just realised how much stuff they have Should we go across here? I think we just pass here There's all these cheap watches, right? And then there's just a random solid gold Piaget brick sitting here That's so funny Like a new black dial Cartier just sitting randomly here Amazing Aren't they worried they're going to drop watches all over the ground? They're professional, okay? Seems like it.. The dial is original, but the bezel is apparently aftermarket. Whats the dial, Opal? I don't know what stone, but definitely original. So this is AP here, that's quite interesting Yellow gold with some sort of Opal dial Diamond bezel The boss said everything is original except the bezel He said the dial is 100% original but he's not sure what stone it is I louped it The bezel is aftermarket And I can confidently say also the dial itself is completely aftermarket as well Nothing on it is correct Opal is not real The AP script is not good And behind here you see this buckle This has been lengthened This is aftermarket as well So this is a watch that really you have to be very careful of People don't know And even boss didn't know He said it's original, right? But it's no good No good How much is this? 300,000 RMB. It's a nice CPCP Dual time here Interesting Alright, let's take a walk Thank you Wow, look at this What is it? Very interesting Corum. I've never seen something like this before Look at this, Nat. Dual time Chopard. Very cool too Show me It's a Chopard with dual time Two time zones. Very cool Hey boss Hello Hello How much is this? This Piaget. This one? Yes Oh, Opal No No? I think it's turquoise or something Let's see.. can I put it here? Yes, you can Thank you. This is 46,000 RMB. 46,000 RMB. Yes What kind of stone is this? Turquoise? Wait a minute I think its.. Let me see.. Hmm I dont know, I cant tell. Let me take a look Very interesting watch, Nat Yeah Look at this It's a white gold Piaget With a pave diamond dial And I think it's turquoise stone Something Is it? It looks beautiful Yeah, I don't know I haven't seen stone before How heavy is this? Do you know? Weight No No weight, right? If you can't decide today You can add me on WeChat I'll send you all the pictures. Got it. Whats your best price? The price I gave you is good.. actually look at our sticker price, over 50,000 RMB. Sticker price is sticker price Yes, our sticker price We won't put a high price This is pretty Now look at this Very similar to yours But in white gold That's cool too It's a protocole With full Pave diamond set bracelet Mother of pearl dial And diamond indices as well Super cool Very unique Wow, we're seeing a lot of stock That we haven't seen before, Nat Yeah Not bad Pretty good You can send EMS directly here You can also send it to Hong Kong So I can pick up from my office in Hong Kong Right? Got it. How much is this, boss? This is original diamond. I know. 55,000 RMB. This can you check how heavy it is? Yes, is there any weight? 106 106 grams Yes Yes Not expensive More than 5,000 gold 5,000-6,000 Sometimes 4. 6, 4. 7 You need to double check 4. 6 Yes Gold is already 50,000 or so. Yes around 47,000. Because this movement is very light Very light. And then if we pay Is wire ok? What? Alipay, WeChat, bank transfer, cash OK We want domestic payment We don't accept international payment We don't accept international payment Very troublesome We only accept Domestic Mainland payment No problem Is there no bank in Hong Kong? We don't have payment in Hong Kong No But it's ok We can sort it out We can sort it out? Yes 92,000 RMB we take both This is 55,000 55,000 30,000 30,000 is not enough Can't do it 9*,000... It's equivalent to One is How about this For both.. We are asking 45,000 and 55,000 Yes 95,000 RMB. Lets do it. 5,000 RMB discount. Can't do it 95,000 RMB We don't take care of anything We give you the watches You just take them. No, no, no For starters, the watches must be sent to our office in Hong Kong. Because our watchmaker is in Hong Kong Then 93,000 RMB is ok So we can ship to you Yes Let me see Worst is i'll sell it to other client Is this ok? Do you have any other similar Piaget in your office? Yes. Piaget.. This kind of watch This kind of watch Older model Add a WeChat Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes We push you directly We are not ready this time we don't even have Internet I took a picture How many days will you stay in Shenzhen? How many days will you stay in Shenzhen? We will go back at 4:30pm Ah you already go back at 4:30pm We have two companies in Changsha and Shanghai. I took a picture Then you take my picture Mainly business in Changsha Understand Live broadcast in Shanghai Live broadcast in Shanghai Have you done a live broadcast? No, no, no... She does. Don't laugh. I followed Live broadcast Live broadcast Two pieces sent to Hong Kong Alright? Thank you boss Alright One more round and we're done. How cool are these Cartier-esque bracelets right These guys are so cool Film this guy. How cool is he I wish I was that cool When selling watches Next time I see a client I'm gonna sit like this With a little cigarette as well