- Every dog in this dog shelter will get adopted. We are going to launch the you have ever seen. And we are not gonna stop until all these dogs find a home. But first, let me introduce This is Foxtrot, Winston, Didi, Zeppelin, Grumpy, Tommy, and this is Kelly, she's really shy. They deserve a home. (epic music) Which is why I bought this billboard to bring more traffic to the shelter. And we also made some flyers that we're gonna hang up all over town. Yield, we have doggos, go adopt them. Some of you older when we helped out PewDiePie Well, I got another one to It's very big. Winston, you're gonna find a home soon. Look at how cute this dog is. He deserves a nice loving home. Oh, hey good boy. Karl, you're trying to tell - He is perfect. (Chandler breathes heavily) - I mean, I feel like we're bonding more than y'all are bonding. - [Karl] Absolutely not. - I mean, take a look. - Sorry, are you getting neck - Sorry, are you putting a Comment down below, which - We know. If Jive wins, nevermind (Chandler chuckling) - Okay, we gotta go. Sorry, Foxtrot. (group chuckling) - And now we go into We're gonna monitor these cameras and see if our billboard works. Now we wait. These dogs are gonna (EDM music) (Karl grunting) (Chandler gasps) Okay, she's here. - Isn't she cute? - [Blonde Woman] Hey there, Iris. - (MrBeast gasping) She's looking at Iris. - [All] Iris, Iris. - She's holding Iris. Oh, look at that. Look - Guys, 100% yes. - She wants him right now. We're gonna give her 10 years As a congratulations for adopting Iris, we wanted to give you 10 - I'm so excited. I'm adopting her. (kissing dog) - I th`ink we caught her so off guard that she just didn't know what to say. - Or she's already had and now she doesn't know - [MrBeast] Yeah, 'cause (group chuckling) - Yeah. - Yes, we got one. All right, Taffy, we're We're finding you a home. We're gonna find 'em all a nice house. I honestly did not think the Hey, let's go boys. And now let's wait for the next adopter. (quirky music) I can't believe how well our We got another family in here. Gia just went in the room Look at her tail wagging. Tyler, go do the deal. - Alpha brava, no re- - Alpha brava, we need a new chair. (group laughing) (&quot;Batman theme&quot; by Neal Hefti) - It's a yes. It's a yes. You're gonna adopt her? - Yes. We want to give you $5,000 We're happy for ya, Gia. - The $5,000 was unexpected That can take me so far - Gia has been at this So the staff wanted to go say goodbye. - [Staff Member] You know, - So proud of you. - Loving her. You're gonna be so happy. Do great in your new home, Gigi. I love you. - [All] Bye. - And that is another dog. There we go. Where's Chandler? - [Tyler] Pooping. - Chandler, Chandler, Gia, Gia's gone. - Who? - All right. - Oh, did you wash your hands? - I'm gonna cut this off. Now, we're gonna take professional I don't wanna just use this And we're gonna start off with Winston because he's the best dog here. (MrBeast laughing) Okay, Winston, you're up first. (fancy xylophone music) (group exclaiming) - How do I not keep petting him? I'm so sorry. (fancy xylophone music) - And, go. (group laughing) - Yes, that's it. - There's not even one bad picture. - [MrBeast] You haven't You wanna model with Okay. (toy squeaks) - For the Gram. (laughing) - [MrBeast Voiceover] we took of the dogs and edit - I am cute! Scratches are dope! I like tennis balls! It's true, he does. - Okay. Foxtrot, into the bed you go. Pat, pat, pat. - Goodnight. I love you. - You were so pretty today. All right, get a good - We're back from the photo shoot, and the dogs passed out. They were so tired. We've done so much today. So I'm gonna call it here for today. We're gonna let him get some rest, and tomorrow we have a lot planned. They will get adopted. (upbeat music) because all these dogs Come on. You're gonna find a home. You're gonna find a home. You're all gonna find a home fliers, we have everything. Someone that sees our marketing is gonna come through that door soon. (quirky music) Guys, guys, guys, look, As you can see, they're So they're gonna take and see if these people That dog is Kelly and she's super shy. There, the tail's coming. - (gasping) They're leaving. - How's it going? Oh my gosh, she loves the dog. - Let them know that - Gotcha. The adoption fee was $275, - Wait, so she's free? - Sharpie's been sponsored. - Oh my gosh. - [Tyler] Yes, they're adopting for sure. - Oh, they are? - This is a $10,000 Petco gift card. I'm gonna go give it to them. - Is that MrBeast? - Huh? - Oh my gosh, that's MrBeast. - We wanted to give you - Are you serious? - Yeah. We want all the dogs here to have great lives. - Whoa, this is so crazy. - Promise us she'll get tons of scratches. - Yes. (dog barking) - Hey Taffy, you're next. (celebrating) (dogs barking) We're getting the dogs a little excited. And now let's wait for the next adopter. (elevator music) (MrBeast sighing heavily) This is taking longer than I thought. I think we need more billboards. - I'll pay. - Really? - I bought 50 more billboards I'll count 'em for you. Billboard number one of 50. Two. - Four. - Six. - Eight. (fast forwarded counting till 50) - And 50. I was not joking. We are going all out for this dog shelter. They will be adopted. We also have a radio station interview. Our friend, Ethan's gonna do it for us. As of right now, you guys which is why he's perfect because I want people because they want one not - You're perfect 'cause I was pretty much the (laugh track rolls) - So we're planning to to get them the exposure they need. - Yes, really special. I love it. - And next I need you to and hold this &quot;Cute Doggos - My name Puddles. Come adopt a dog. They're all just as cute as me. Flashed his lights at me. - (laughing) Stop! - All 50 billboards are up. The truck is driving around. We still have the fliers. Tyler, go man the floor. I want you two suited up just in case Tyler needs Didi, we launched a We trained you for this Didi. - They're adopting, baby. They said, I want to adopt this dog. So we actually have a sponsor today and they wanted to reward you guys because you guys decided to adopt a dog. - Yay! - My last dog died in October. So it was time for a new friend. I'm glad she picked me. - Congratulations. Aww. And now the door's (celebrating) She's adopted! - All right, they're about to walk up. They're in the front. We got this. - [Man] So let's go back and see Zeppelin. - He is adorable. (Zeppelin barking) - They're bringing their to meet Zeppelin to see before they adopt him. All right, we're getting somewhere. They're bonding a little bit. - Guys, guys, guys, guys. They adopted him, dude. - Karl did the last person. So Chandler, it's your turn. - All right. This is what you're getting you adopted Zeppelin. - Oh my goodness. That's why he kept saying extra free. (Chandler breathing heavily) I dropped the sign as I was freaking out. - [Karl] It was so funny. - Bye Zeppelin. - I'm gonna miss you, Zeppelin. Goodbye. And another one's adopted. - Let's go. (slurping) - Karl, sit down, sit down. - What's up? - Jive is being looked at. Yeah, someone's about to adopt Jive. Go, go, go - That tail does not stop - [Chandler] Yeah, she loves you guys. (squeaking) (Chandler screaming) - [MrBeast] Chandler, what - They're taking Jive away from me. - You still have us. - You got pet insurance for 10 years guys. - That's awesome. - 'Cause we got Jive a good home. - [MrBeast] Congratulations. - Bye Jive. - Thank you. - Appreciate you guys so much. - And he's gone Jive, Jive, Jive, Jive, Jive, Jive (somber music) - You have Karl. (Chandler blows nose) - Look who's not gone yet. - He's a good boy. - Hey, good boy Eugene. - He's gonna be gone when I take him home. - Aww. Okay, a new couple just walked in. Is that Noah or Tommy? - [Karl] That's Tommy. (gasping) He caught him midair, no. - Tom-ster seems happy. How'd it go in there? - Got him. - Not only are they adopting, they freaking love that dog. Real quick, I wanna let you know that every single person that They fill out applications. They do all that good stuff. We're not just giving these Just so you know. Hey, we wanted to give to Petco as a congratulations - Thank you so much. - [MrBeast] No problem. Look at that tail wagging. - Took a few seconds to warm up. Yeah, he brought us the ball. We threw it around. Now look at him. - [Woman] Yeah. - Tommy! Tommy! - [Crew] Tommy! Tommy! - Congratulations Tom. Winston, you're next! Noah, you're next! You're all next. So far, half the dogs have been adopted. We have about an hour left until the shelter closes for the night. No, oh, we got more people. - You are gonna freak when He's precious. - Wait, they're looking at Winston. (gasping) - Oh no. Wait, more people just came in. - [Karl] Is this a second group? - The billboards are working. All right, let's go. So we have a family in here with Tyler. That's their dog that they brought. Currently with Monica Chandler's helping them out. So we got Chandler here. We got Tyler here. Another family walks in, we send you out. We got this. Oh my gosh, look at how We're about to lose eyes We didn't rig a camera in that room 'cause we didn't think two Sending in backup for Chandler. As you see on this camera, Karl's just awkwardly like he always does. He always has to say something. How's it going? - Monica's as good as gone. - Hey. Okay. - How about Winston? - I think Winston's as good as gone, too. - Oh my gosh, two for two. Come on now. - So basically we're gonna get but it's like a human house. They forgot to tell 'em the - Yeah. - It's buy zero, get one free baby. (disco music) - [Chandler] So what - Well, I have always wanted an older Lab. The older dogs get and this girl deserves to live out, you know, her last years in a good home. - We're gonna give her a amazing home. - We are. - Bye Winston. - Aww, you guys are really lucky. I love Winston. Also, bye Lady at the same time. We'll miss you, Lady. And most importantly, Winston. - Oh, boom. (explosion effect) - Hello, sweetie pie. - [MrBeast] Low key, Maddy's with Pinky and I think As soon as I saw Pinky, I We just have to convince Jimmy. - So you really like Pinky? - Yeah. - Interesting. The shelter is now closed for the day and we're gonna take to the store to buy - Especially this guy right here. - Go ahead and adopt him. - Really? - It's obvious you love him. - I'm gonna adopt him. I already filled out the paperwork. - So you adopted him? - Yes, and his name is Swaggy. - Congrats! - [Karl] Wow, Stop looking so excited (MrBeast laughing) - Guys, I got a dog. - We're at the pet store. Anything they want, they can have. - [Tyler] You think you - [Karl] Oh, he picked this one. There you go, buddy. - You're gonna have - She is in a pink world. Yes! - Very sure we have enough. - Taffy has a bunch of toys. Grump, aka Swaggy's He's in there on his own free will. Fox has a mountain of toys. Pepper's just confused. - [Pepper Voiceover] Huh? - Noah's viciously attacking them. And that's it for today. At the rate dogs we're adopted today, every single dog here which is amazing. And I'm really excited. Also, you can't just leave because they might choke on 'em. So obviously we're gonna get rid of 'em. Good morning, doggos. We brought them a special breakfast. Gourmet dog food. - Here you are my good sir. Enjoy. - Morning, Noah. You want some food? - [Chandler] For you, my dude. - There you go. Eat up. Oh, Pinky was hungry. Adopters showed up and So, we need to sneak out the back door. Go. We're trying to be secretive about this. Okay, they're coming in the front door. (spy music) I need you to breach. (Karl knocks his arm against the door) - Ow. - Go, go, go. All right, boys, We made it back to command center. As you can see, they're - [Karl] Ew, what kind - He broke this foot, Karl. - Oh my gosh. - Grab as much dog food - We have to give them a All right, come on, keep the toys coming. All right, this should be good boys. They're gonna be really Congratulations on your new adoption. To celebrate, we wanted to give you a bunch of dog food and toys. - [Karl And Chandler] - Wow, look how happy he is. - Thank you, bye. - Noah didn't waste any time on this. They're gone, we need to go take care of the next family. Come on, let's go. Taffy and the squad is about If they adopt Taffy, then are the three left. - Peffer? - I said Pepper. Play the clip. Peffer and Pinky. They've officially adopted Taffy. Time to surprise them. Congratulations on adopting Taffy. We wanna give you guys a and unlimited dog food and toys. - Oh my gosh. (MrBeast crew applauding) - Taffy and Noah were just adopted. - Woo! The only dogs left are Pepper and Pinky. It's rush hour, and two more I want you to take care of one. I want you to take care of the other. Tyler, you chill here in case a third comes. All right, over and out. Roger. - We come bearing gifts. - Gifts? - Because you got Pepper a beautiful home. - What? It's a real blessing. It really is. - We appreciate you guys adopting through. We're trying to get rid of all these dogs. Did you guys expect to come - No. - That's amazing. - That is amazing. - Everybody's ecstatic. They're happy with their dogs. They're happy with their free money. Who would've thought? - They're filling out the and the woman adopting Pepper is also filling out her paperwork. The only one left is Pinky. - [All] Woo, Pepper! - Congratulations, Pepper! - Here's all your toys for Pepper. - [Group In Unison] Foxtrot! - Can Karl get one last pet of Foxtrot? He loves this dog (Karl kissing dog) - And enough food to feed Pinky is the last dog remaining. Okay, good girl. I'm gonna go ahead and call And she's conveniently the which I think is a sign. Do you think we should adopt Pinky? - Absolutely. - You're 100% sure? - Yes. - I guess we're gonna adopt you, Pinky. I don't have a dog, but I have a yard. - (Maddy chuckling) I have a yard. - Even though every dog in the company we're working with, Furkids, still has tons of other facilities Which is why I have Darren here and he's gonna ask for your help. - What Jimmy has done for us In our 19 years history, nothing like this has ever happened to us. - If you guys wanna help Furkids, which is by the way that no-kill shelter, like they genuinely care about dogs, there'll be a link description. Every dollar you donate will go towards them building a bigger facility so they can help thousands of dogs that are like genuinely in need. - Jimmy is every bit as nice and sincere on camera in real life. - All right, stop it. I hate when people do this. Click the link and go donate. I'm sorry. - Subscribe. We'll see you later. (explosion booming) MrBeast 6000, yeah, you know his name He changed it once or twice But I think it's here to stay (explosion booming)