- Is DKOldies still scamming people? (camera shutters) Now, I did not want to make this video. Six months ago we took a look at DKOldies, and while it seems somewhat by the end of that video, So let's give them another try, shall we? So this all started with a tweet. &quot;DKOldies controversy? Everyone was/is covered under our one year warranty. We listen to all customer's Check out our new and evolved So let's find out what they a DKOldies sticker on a device. &quot;All consoles that are and go through our repair process are opened in order to each component that is causing the console to not be functioning Once the console is repaired and considered functioning, all components are through DKOldie's testing process.&quot; They do offer a one year warranty, which is not standard So last time when I got we ordered it under a different name but shipped it here to the office and they were all in one big order. And I saw some comments, people saying, &quot;Hey, a little sus, maybe they cotton onto it.&quot; So I went a little bit I split the order into two. It was ordered under different names, shipped to different addresses and used different credit cards. And to give them a small bit of credit I actually ordered these So actually, all of these consoles were 20% off their normal pricing. So I'm going to evaluate them But I'm almost not gonna (graphics whining) Let's take a look. So, I'm going to go with, let's go with this smaller box first. So this is order number one. This will be order number two. So we'll do this one in just a minute. First of all- - [Alex] Am I the only one that's bothered by that one pink packing peanut? - [Matt] Yeah, yeah. - There is one, isn't there? Well, you know what, it's fine. That's fine. So first off, we have So this is an original Xbox - [Matt] One thing I just see immediately. - [Austin] Yeah. - [Matt] Which kind of rubbed me the wrong way the last time too. - Yep. - Are they upfront that a first party controller? - [Austin] They are. - So if you want a first party controller I don't know if it was for the Xbox, but I know feel PS2s If you want a first party controller it's like a 20 or $30 upcharge. So this was listed as So the original price is $210, this was about 168, I believe. So let's see what good condition gives us. I will say first glance A little scuff, there's some like, almost looks like a marker or something, but it's just probably over the years. The jewel's in relatively good shape. We obviously gotta do Yeah, I don't know what but they smell delightful. To me, that looks like a very clean fan, which is a promising first sign that this one actually might This is a late model. So this is a 2004 Xbox. So this would've been And we can see that they which is underneath here. We do have a DKOldies warranty sticker over the other screw hole. So as always, if you want and see the quality of the inside, you're going to void the warranty. Although I don't think they but fair enough. It's not like DKOldies is the only one who tried to void your - So for context, on eBay with first party controller, anywhere from 85 bucks to about 125 bucks. - So my question is not so much what the actual price difference is, it's much more so, &quot;Is for a DKOldies console actually worth it?&quot; Well that's a good sign. It immediately pops up. Okay, let's play the The brand new game for 2023. Oh sorry. 2003 Forza Motorsport. - You've gotta be kidding me. Wait, no, no, no, no (chuckles). - [Ken] No. Get... No - This is not actually a thing. No, there's no... No, no, no, no, no. You gotta be kidding. (whimsical music) (fist bangs) (whimsical music) - [Ken] Ah! (Ken laughs) - [Joanna] What? What? Wait, what do you... - [Alex] Hey- Oh my God. - [Alex] Hey he Fonzed it. (all laughing) You know what? (hug) this. Who cares? Let's just go, let's just go Goodbye copy of Forza Motorsport. We may never see your like again. I guess we could say that the If you don't mind prying the disc open. Let's go! Mo powah baby! So let's see what's inside the Xbox, and maybe just maybe we can fix it. Here's the thing. So the disc drive actually obviously wrong with it, which is actually a Oh, oh, holy (hugs) - Wow. That power supply is right Woo! Yikes! Okay. And we've got ourselves It's so huge. Look at the, just the With our Xbox put back together, let's see if we can get this shall we? (Xbox whirring) - No, (chuckles). I fixed it! Next up we have our Nintendo DS. So this is the original DS. Fun fact, I've actually, I don't think I've ever So this normally is With the discount I paid $120 on sale. Which is, I would say, But, most DSs you find and also are nowhere near this There are some slightly deeper But because this had a to find any used DS that does not have some of those scratches I would say that's very much It does come with a power adapter. And this is a third party power adapter, but that's totally fine. Here's one slight problem. Hang on, my battery's Let lemme plug it now. Oh, oh. - [Matt] What's going on over there? What you doing? No. Oh. - [Ken] Is it broken? - Well the charger isn't working. - [Ken] Oh. - [Matt] Stop wiggling chargers. - [Matt] Oh. It should go in nice and smooth. - It should go in nice and smooth. I have retrieved a Game Boy Advance SP which uses the exact same cable. So let's see if this plugs in. Oh no, you know it's the charger. It doesn't wanna go in here either. It's sort of, if I wiggle it, yeah I've got a little Okay, so I do think they So now I'm going to plug in an official Game Boy Advance SP charger which is the exact same as the DS. To show that this works, I'm going to plug this into So we see it immediately It goes in and out nice and smoothly. Now let's try the DS. Oh yeah, immediately, no problems at all. In, out. Okay. So yeah. So DS gets a pass. Fully functional, great shape. Might be my favorite Or at least it gets a I haven't opened this up yet. But, seems to be fully functional. The main issue with this is the fact that it comes with So if you look at this screw, so I just tried to open it up and you see that I've got a little bit of a scratch mark on that. These screws, the way I think they're As soon as you open them a little bit of scuffing. You see this screw and I don't believe that this was opened. Now there is certainly some ambiguity when it comes to DKOldies and whether or not they open the consoles. They say they will clean But I kind of take that to by removing the battery or something like that. I don't believe that they opened this DS. But it's not coming out at all. I got, I got it, I got it. - [Ken] No, no, no, no, no, no. - [Joanna] It's like pulling - Yeah, yeah. (laughing) It looks clean. - I'd say that's pretty clean. - Gimme gimme. - Sure, give it a try. - There's a screw here. - I took the seven screws out. - There's one right there. - That would explain why (Matt breathing deeply) Let's see what's inside the DS, shall we? - [Matt] Wow, look how easy that was. Such a simple... - We cut nothing out. That was live in the seven seconds it took. The only thing I can say about this is that now that I've opened it up I actually have much easier Before you can't get at so some of this dirt and But with that being said, the DS I think it's an unmitigated pass. I think it's clean, it's well maintained. I mean clearly this was a that I don't think DKOldies really needs to do anything with. Maybe they cleaned it up a little bit. I can't tell. But I mean contacts, everything We've got ourselves the Game Boy Advance. So this is an end... Oh God, it's...(sighs) Let me show you what this good condition So there's a film on the screen which I'm gonna peel off in a second. But that's clearly not right. It does look great on the front. That's in good condition. This (sighs), um um. How much did I pay for - [Alex] You paid, 150 (Austin sobbing) - I'm gonna cry. Can I just say something? I'm gonna do this on camera. I'm curious. I do somewhat suspect that 'cause you can see there's It looks like if you put that's the way it came. I'm gonna peel that up live. I'm curious 'cause the screen But I'm curious if this was... 'cause I don't think it was original. Yeah. So I do believe that That is definitely a new screen lens. As you can see it is absolutely mint. So there's nothing wrong with this door , even though it's clearly the wrong color. Do you see right here where this little clip's That looks broken off to me. Now I can't say for sure without another Game Boy to compare it to, but it looks like where it's just been snapped off. I will say the new screen lens they put in here does look really nice. Wait, wait, wait. Oh good lord. No it's not. If you look really closely the screen lens seems like So you actually see some of especially when you get in the light you can definitely notice it. All right gang. Let's see what's inside Oh. Oh actually that's quite nice. Wow. - [Matt] I forgot how nice that board looked. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, this is actually in really good shape. So the contacts are slightly Again, I don't know if they but it does look clean. I actually will say, now both buttons are clicking better. There's not a whole lot to It's very clean, the But I mean honestly, considering the age, this has either been or DKOldies did actually 'cause I've seen much, much worse. Next up, we've got Uh oh. So that's not a good looking screen lens. Holy. This Game Boy Color was in good condition. So looking at it on the back, again, I will say this is So if I pull this up, yeah it does have the Contacts are actually pretty clean. It does have the original sticker here, which that's very, very standard. I mean I feel like mine looked after a year. And while they did do a there's a lot of actual plastic missing, will be the way I would describe it. So if you look here, So around the d-pad, over by It's physically just been with honestly probably just and whatnot. Because I wanted to try which apparently is something I purchased this, a copy of Pokemon Red. One question I have is whether or not they've So it's not necessary for all games, but specifically Pokemon games. There's a little, I think it's a CR 2032. A little watch battery that which helps to keep your save file intact. - Kind of all over the with conditioning. But for a good condition, - I guess what we can is that it's actually not Now, outside of the scuffing I do think this is gonna - [Matt] That is a good looking screen though. - Well if you look at, but look at this huge scratch right here. - [Matt] Oh yeah, yeah. - Yeah, it's not actually... Yeah, there you go. That's what the screen looks like. - [Matt] Oh no. - [Ken] Oh, Jesus Christ. - [Matt] Okay. From our angle, that - Yeah. Cool. Great. Let me go through the and see if it saves. Okay, so it does let me continue. Oh that is a new battery. Yeah, that's definitely a new battery. Okay, so you know what, They did actually swap out the battery. To be fair, the Game Boys Now the only thing I'm looking for here, everything seems to be I'm just looking to see that screen lens. So all I need to do is just You know what? I'm just gonna do it. Whatever. There are all my buttons too. See, here comes the fun part. Can I peel this 20 year old foam off without it completely collapsing on me? 'cause I don't think I can. So now with the screen liberated, I will say the screen actually So I could actually reuse this screen. But what is a problem is Which I think can just come loose here. One moment please. - [Joanna] Oh no. - [Ken] Oh, I don't like that. - [Joanna] Oh no, Austin. - [Ken] What are you doing? - Nooo. - They put a new screen lens in. (Ken laughs) - My bad, Joey. - [Matt] You just lost all credibility in this video whatsoever. - It was a really well - [Matt] You are a quack. - Yeah. Boy that looks a whole lot better. Okay, so you know what? Remember that stuff I said about the screen being a little scratched on the Game Boy Color. (mimics stuttering) My bad. Whoops. - [Ken] I can't believe he gaslit us into thinking that DKOldies was bad. - Well, okay, now. Okay, so I did purchase A Wii U. So this is the Wii U gamepad. - [Matt] (laughs) Why? - Because the we use Wii U is good Matt. It was, it was okay. Yeah, you know what this is all right. I think this is fine. A little slightly scuffed, but considering that this I'll give them that. This seems fine. Ah! (laughs) What? Wow! That's a lot of scratches. That is just, ah good Lord. Technically, this is It is really, really, really scuffed up. Matt, is this where you tell me that I could buy a Wii U - [Matt] How much did you pay for it? - So it was 175 after if it was original. that actually doesn't - Yeah, you're paying a lot on that one. - [Matt] $285. - 'cause if you've used your Wii U at all it probably looks like this. So I've got it plugged in. I do have a power LED, Here's one of many It's slow. Yeah. But you can really see that this screen has seen better days. It's significantly darker Well it does come with Mario Kart 8. - [Ken] The black one for the longest time as a bundle. I know because I- Was it? - [Ken] I have a feeling that it was. - [Joanna] Oh, Matt heard Nintendo and then- - [Austin] Hold on. Wait. - Nintendo sucks. (mimics Mario Kart theme song) - And I have a mushroom now I think. (Matt and Ken mimic Mario - [Matt] Oh no! - [Matt] We just did all of (console beeping) - Okay, so I know this one. So if I remember correctly, this is the only console I've purchased, which was not in good condition but in acceptable condition. This is a PSP 1000. Ready? And... - Ah! No! No! No! No, no, no, no, no. Oh good lord. That's not acceptable, there's fricking... Yo, it comes with one That's worth hundreds - [Matt] The sad thing is that's accurate. - Without considering sale pricing. This is typically $150 for good condition and a hundred dollars for acceptable. And because it was on Wow, those scratches are bad though. I mean, I guess I'm not Okay, PSP actually does Let me actually throw a game in here. &quot;Star Wars Battlefront: You know, I will say something, I'm surprised that that PSP considering that this is and a handheld portable. I just kinda assumed that, you know, after almost 20 years they You see the left side. So you see on the right side, no play, left side, a lot of play. I do think that the mechanism It's closed and working, but - So I hate to break it to you. - What? - That is also weirdly normal. - Okay? - My PSP 1000, very much - God, I forgot how hard or first person shooter And I'll say I've never but what could go wrong? So I could tell you something. Yeah, they didn't open this thing up because the screws are I'm not making any progress. 'cause the screws isn't turning. I'm just like wrecking my thread. You gotta try man. It's bad. Oh, you actually get it. - Teamwork makes a dream work. - It's gonna be really hard to get, but can you see how much rust It's very, very small. So I've ordered not only probably are gonna need to Make sure to subscribe. I'm actually gonna do a YouTube short all about refitting this But for now let's see how much work I Warranty... Oh yeah, they definitely did get into it. You see the warranty void so it's definitely Alright, let's see if I can actually... Oh, oh. Okay. Well that actually came Ooh. Ooh. This is a good sign. It's a good sign. Okay. So I'm removing this sort of top shell and I can immediately say, that the damage is entirely on the shell. You can see that it all has There's a bunch of stuff but that's a really good sign. Now I'm gonna go ahead and be swapping out the display anyway. But, the good part about this is that I'm gonna be for a much brighter, more modern IPS. But the actual damage to DKOldies could have fixed and buying a new cover for it. Let's pull out, I believe our which is the PS3 Super Slim. And I will say that based (PS3 parts cluttering) - [Matt] (laughing) That's a great sign. - Well, this is gonna go well, isn't it? Behold, our PS3 Super Slim. That's... Oh yeah. Remember the disc drive didn't work well - [Matt] It didn't lock - Yeah 'cause there was something It seems to function fine. So that's good. Yeah, so 168 bucks. But this is the same price, as the first time I So this should have a I'm just gonna just take Just you know, just to (chuckles) no hard drive in it. Yes, 250 gigabyte hard drive which is what should have shipped inside this PS3 Super Slim. So that part is all fine. What happened here? It's all smashed, you see? So that should be a flat piece of plastic. You see, especially right here. It looks like it was dropped. So I'm plugging in our Super Slim PS3. And can I just point look at how far that moves. Do you see the whole plug It's almost like the damage down here has maybe ruin some of of my power supply. - [Ken] What, you don't jiggle your cable. - You know, jiggle jiggle, not good when it comes to a cable. So I guess so far PS3 We're getting into the XMB. All right, that's a menu. We're seeing things happen. I still forget how much Look, it's literally all Oh you know what? Yeah, yeah, we are actually You can see right here, So it's on the outside of the shell but there's like an inner piece here. I can remove this plastic shroud, but that didn't go all the way through - [Ken] Man, every time Austin takes apart - No. Every time I take apart a 'cause they know that I do nothing good. Love the fact that there's a huge dent on the side of the PS3. Thankfully there is no All of this combined with the even on sale, is quite difficult There are a couple that were okay. But most of these prices were quite bad. Now there has been some that DKOldies has done some some replacements of some of the fans and some bits and bobs and certainly like the Game Boys were actually Same thing with the DS. And the big issue that is that if I'm going to that DKOldies are charging I expect no issues. I expect it to be clean, to be fully repaired, fully refurbished. And I simply don't have that guarantee. Lemme know what you think about DKOldies in the comments below. I'm very curious. We tried to do this one as anonymously and as thoroughly as we Just it's not, it still isn't it.