Worry is the fuel of anxiety. It's what feeds learn how to control generalized anxiety your worry. But if you tell someone to stop because it's not that easy. Worry is hard to grooves into your neural pathways. And you do but it really weighs you down. In this video why your brain thinks it's helpful, and you'll on your worrying because when you do, you the anxiety cycle. We start here at stimulus, and we're in danger, whether that's real or in our it's our thoughts of danger that make us feel fuels anxiety disorders. When we worry we imagine jobs or failing at life, and that creates fight/flight/freeze response. And while it seems it doesn't work like that because our brain likes us safe. Sometimes worrying protects us, and make us happy. So let's review the two reasons video after this one in the course that goes into worry is a mutated form of problem-solving. Humans future scenarios and find solutions to them, we attend school or save for a rainy day. Right? to do it. It's focused on your locus of control, worry is like a cancer. It starts to spread to all and where to do it, and it often focuses on things problem-solving. Worrying secretly feels good. preventing bad things from happening. It's a that your child is going on a long drive, and you and they don't get into a car crash. Your brain bad things from happening, and it's going to more. Someone commented on one of my videos, &quot;If taking care of this so it's going to be a disaster the first reason your brain believes that worry these skills to stop constant worry I was driving I was really like, I was realizing how good that the blue I was struck by a very loud thought that and then something bad happens? What if God has to And as soon as I noticed this thought I literally thought is. It's a worry trying to convince me God is like that, and I don't actually believe but this is the exact reason why my brain likes safe. This is faulty thinking. But if you tell They'll say, &quot;Oh, it's not that easy. I wish I putting my head in the sand.&quot; And even though worrying. So let me teach you how. Also, I need to a lot of this psychology into practical, please check out his course Worry Free. Uh link's need to know the difference between a worry and one is the type of thought that just pops in and machine. It's going to make random thoughts all we engage with. It's active thinking. It's we're doing, and we need to be able to use two of thinking. For the random pop-in thoughts, these with them, but it also doesn't help to struggle head, you just notice it, say, &quot;Hey, brain. Thanks worry thoughts we use cognitive defusion. You just makes them stickier. But worrying, that's a your mind to dwell on troubles. Worrying is the over and over in your mind. It's when we engage This is something that you are doing. It's not we need to set boundaries on our worrying. So When a train is moving it's got a ton of momentum. impossible to do quickly. But it's relatively can channel that train into a different direction. we're going to tell it when and where it's allowed are going to worry on purpose. Here's how you to sit down and worry for 15 to 30 minutes. And exercise, not a coping skill. We're strengthening trying to feel better when you're anxious. So you brain boundary muscles, basically a new groove So choose a time that you can be consistent. And last thing before bed. Like, don't do it in your be relaxing. This is worry time. Like, kitchen desk at work, something like that. Right? It's than to tell it to not worry. Then during this write down all your worries. Putting them down on brain that you're serious, that you'll address reminding you throughout the day. And if you'd can also choose if there's one or two things you a problem you need to solve. Like if you're to a budget this week by using an envelope system. problem solving. And we're going to talk more this exercise is to tell your brain, &quot;This, right when your timer goes off, step away. Leave the So it can be nice to call a friend, go for a walk, Your next worry session is in 24 hours. So what you want to notice it and redirect it. So oh hi there, worry. Let's talk at 6:00, okay?&quot; want to be doing in the present moment. What do around you? Shift your attention to them, and worries pop up, you say, &quot;Thanks for telling me. about them at 6.&quot; And you go right back to your to be playing with my kids right now.&quot; &quot;I want to redirect our attention to the present moment and we want our life to be about instead of dwelling Remember, this isn't a coping skill. This is an feeling really fat and out of shape and like you start working out, uh exercising physically you find yourself drowning in anxiety, this is the Do it for three weeks minimum every single day at for when you feel worried. I get this question a stop worrying? So if I, if I notice I'm worrying, look at YouTube? Right? In general, distraction is if you start worrying during the day and you worries, that phone usage, that distraction live your values, to engage with the people your brain. It's a form of avoidance right here, but it tells your brain that that thought is, is going to make it louder. Distraction feeds makes your life less meaningful and less vibrant. use limited distraction paired with scheduled if you're struggling to set boundaries on your uh listening to a moderately boring audio book and you can say, &quot;I will think about that tomorrow Distraction is not a good long-term strategy, um short term if you pair it with scheduled worry. mindfulness. This is the ability to control your the next video. So here's what you can expect from going to spend less time worrying. The majority much more of your day to not be worrying and doing your worrying, you might be able to solve some chronic anxiety and stress. Your body is really get anxious or worked up in short bursts. It's in all your worrying at once, you give your body Okay. So go ahead and schedule a time and place to video and tell me how it went and how much your how to set boundaries on your worrying and to get