And... I don't know if this guy actually exists. I don't know if this You know it's a shame. It's really a shame there's so much money on the table. I don't think that we've tried at all. I don't think that we've If we don't place this guy, I'm scared with you, I'm scared for us. Berel, we tried our best here. We're going at this every single day. I was counting on this. We were all counting on this. Berel, your wife is trying to reach you. Hey, sweetheart, how are you? Hi, Berel. Where are you? Oh, my gosh. I didn't even realize. Are you there? Yeah, I'm here. Where were we? Look, you known, we tried hard this week. I don't think there's anything more I think that you're right. And next week will be a better week. All right, I'm home in a minute. I'll speak to you on Monday. Talk to you then. Here mommy. Ah, Daddy ! Hi, Meny. Hi, Meny. Hi. Welcome, Berel. Please, can you get Yes, absolutely. Okay. All right, come. Let's hurry up. We have to go. How's your day, Menachem ? We went to school. Ok guys, I'm going to go get dressed. We have to hurry up. I'll see you guys in the car, okay? Seat bells on, please. Okay, guys, go ahead. I'll be up in a minute. Oh my gosh. It's not looking good Life in Egypt was becoming more And Pharao had made a new law had to be thrown into the Nile River. Tatie, why does every time In Hannouka, in Pessah, in Purim, and now It's a good question. Look, I don't have the answer. But what I do know is that we're here thing, and that's what matters. And do we still have to be scared? You know what, guys? I think that we're going No, no, no, no. Yes, yes. To bed everybody. Anything good out there? - Nothing. Everything looks really bad. It's just terrible what's going on. You? It's disgusting. Did you see what just happened in Israel? Yeah, I saw. And in New York, It's so bad. So scary. Honestly, we need Mashiach already. The darkness in this world It doesn't even make sense how quickly I went to a Jewish And ever since I was a kid, and it was always something Throughout Jewish history, that has given Jewish people hope Jewish people on trains on the way in hopes to see the day The problem is the subject is so elusive about Mashiach, people almost tune out. And when October seventh happened, I found And I need to find something on the side And there's nothing that I know of besides Hey, Berel. How's it going? Rabbi, good morning. It looks like you're I'm definitely trying to. What are you studying? I am trying to learn about Mashiach. I have just been a mess with everything but it's not so simple. There's so many conflicting opinions. It's not such a simple subject. Mashiach is a big topic in Judaism. It's the essence of Judaism. Do you have any suggestions, Why don't you consider going to New York? The Rabbi spoke about this There are many rabbis that dedicate Maybe go there and you find some answers. I have a wife, I don't know how practical it is for To go learn about Mashiach. Well, it's a tough decision. But if it's a priority for you now, I find myself affected, even in my work. Maybe he does have a point. But this is going to be tough on my wife, I'm not sure how she's going to take it. Hi, Good. How was your day? How was yours? It was an interesting day. I went to Synagogue, like we spoke about and rabbi Laine saw me learning. And he suggested maybe to learn from some rabbis over there. Wow. You're going to go to New York? I would like to. It's going to be difficult for me. that you're going to go explain to me a little Look, I haven't been myself lately. You know this more than anyone. So there's a lot of great rabbis Okay. It's going to be hard for us for sure. When are you going to go? Well, I know. I'm going to send you a list for the kids in the Jewish store. If you're going there? It's a small price. Does that mean I could go? You're the best. A part of me is scared to let go But this is something that feel that I also have to do for others. And there I was. Any time I've ever traveled to New York And here, I'm essentially Before I go speak to any of the big on the streets of New York City Hey, guys. Welcome to New York. I have a quick question for you. Good afternoon, sir. Can I ask you a question? I was told I could find more Do you know where I could find him? What do you mean, Messiah? The Messiah, the Mashiach. This man that's going to end all wars, bring all the Jewish people back in a time of prosperity. Okay, if you find out, let me know, okay? Never heard of it? Get ready. I love you. Anybody? Anybody see the Messiah? Very, very glad to hear from you. Very, very glad to see this. These people aren't even from here. I'm going to go to my hotel and check in, to hear what real New Yorkers You know, it's interesting. There's all kinds of people There's people who are apathetic, There's people who believe. There's people who don't believe. There's people who hate Okay, let's get to work. Have you ever heard of something Mashiach? No. Never heard of the Mashiach. The Mashiach No. How are you doing? What's your name? Hassan. Free Palestine ! We believe in Muhammad. You don't believe. Can we come up with a chant ? Peace, peace in the world. Peace, peace in the world. Where's my friend? How are you doing? No hate, only love. Absolutely not. We believe in this thing to create a beautiful new world. You're going to be able to see Godliness and prosperity for the world. Does that sound good to you? The Mashiach. Yes. Are you excited for Mashiach? Say, we want Mashiach now. I want Mashiach now. My man, my man, my man. Do you mind if I ask you, You bet you. Yeah, I am. The Israel headband. Could you put that on for me? Bro, you're an undercovered Jew. We got to get a cover on this, man. I got you, I got you Did I did it in Rhode Island once. Some guy at another station was like... If you truly want to bring Mashiach Allyeah, give me a hug ? I love you, bro. If the only reason why I came to New York that beautiful Jewish soul, I am on fire. All I want to do is dance. The funny thing is, these guys didn't know business before he was religious, NYC, make some noise ! That's my my landord right there. He told me to do this I love you. Shabbat Shalom. It's kind of a beautiful morning get down to real business. My first stop is Rabbi Manis Friedman, to do with the inner parts of the Torah. And one of my biggest role models. Rabbi Manis Friedman, thank you Appreciate that. It is a pleasure, We have to do this ! Let's jump right in. So, Rabbi, I guess, Mashiach, the Messiah. Big concept. At the end of the day, who is the guy? Is he flesh and blood? Is he an angel? Who are we talking about over here? That is fundamental. That is really crucial. Rambam says, It should not enter your mind The whole idea of giving the Torah at God's Commandments, it is all because By keeping the Commandments, observing out and revealing the divine that means Mashiach has to be a human being. The whole point is humans Nature has the potential to be Godly. So he's a regular person. Regular human being. He has a heart that beats, eyes that sees. Is he alive right now? He must be because he So I've learned that Mashiach One is we're in such dire straits that to have to come and save the day, or reward us for earning his arrival. So the Rabbi said many times, it's both. When we're so desperate for the truth, Say you've never been so low, On the other hand, The world has never been so ready. And the world is going to listen to him? The world will listen to him because Which country admires its own president It seems that you're pretty hopeful that Mashiach is going to come. Well, first, it's inevitable, and we're We desperately need it to be more than soon, everybody is ready, and there's no reason What a first stop. I'm beginning to see that The next scholar I'm meeting Rosh Yeshiva of Yeshiva University. I'm excited to learn about Mashiach from life to teaching thousands and thousands Why is Mashiach important God only does miracles if he's going He's not going to make Why in the world did he create this world? What did he accomplish by this? People are just killing They hate each other. So we are told in the Hummash, in the end of days when Mashiach will come, People will not be killing each other. The Kingdom of God will be recognized That's the main thing. So forgive my ignorance. It seems that in the Hasidic a lot, for sure in Chabbad. Is Mashiach that big of a talking point We don't talk about it that much. Three times a day in our prayers, we pray So that's like the Ramam to hasten the comming of Mashiach. We don't control Mashiach. God has control over Mashiach. We have to pray to God. He should hasten the comming of Mashiach. They have special busses that go to Hevron every month on Erev Rosh Hodesh. People go to daven with the Avot, that He should bring, Hakadosh May we merit to see him very quickly. Rabbi, thank you so much for your time. I'm excited for my next interview, he's the author of a book Israel, and the End of Days. I'm particularly interested to go meet are talking about the End of Days, will happen before the time of Mashiach. And it feels like the war of Gog playing out in front of us. I need to hear from him exactly Rabbi Lawrence Hajioff, I guess since you wrote the book, about the subject. And there's a big discussion that at called the war of Gog and Magog. And are we there? Are we at the end of it? I would love to hear So the idea of Gog and Magog Ezekiel, the prophet, speaks about it, of some final battle. Most of the commentators, however, tell us all of them taking place in Israel, are going to come, collaborate We're not too sure who these nations given different names in the prophets. However, one does stand out that we which is modern day Iran. So many of the commentators nowadays that what we're going through right now of Ezekiel and Zaharia. What are the things that this man call him the Mashiach? He's got to fight the wars of God. He's got to build the third And most importantly, he's got single Jew back to the land of Israel. He's going to be a king. Kingship, royalty is going He's got other jobs as well. But that's his main mission, to to the land of Israel. Do you think that we are in I have no doubt. I'm 100% sure that we are right now The signs given to us by our prophets it's very, very clear. That was an incredible interview. Such an interesting I'm happy that one of the things wars, because when Mashiach In Brooklyn, New York, Her name is Miriam Ezagui. She's one of the largest in the entire world right now. She has a very unique perspective on in a positive light so that we that have been plaguing us for so long. How do you deal with that exists on the internet? We're talking about Mashiach. Let's talk about Mashiach. I don't share my videos Interesting. One of the reasons that I do that I found that when people have a lack that void is filled with hate, the society that we grew up in. If they don't understand something, they really have a hatred of Jews, but because Well, don't stop. Don't give up. Because it says that the Ba'al When will Mashiach come? And he answered, when your teachings So continue spreading goodness Amen. And may be merited to see Amen. I'm on my way now to go visit in my life, Rabbi YY Jacobson. I spent countless hours listening the opportunity to go sit down with him is something that I never thought I'm excited for this one. So what's all the excitement about? From what I understand, Mashiach comes. We're going to be free to enjoy all day, getting closer to God all day. And I'll be honest it's very exciting to go make a deal. I'm a businessman, okay? To go make a deal, to go make That's exciting. What's all the excitement about it? It's a great question. I think it comes from a misconception Some people think it's basically I should say, of the bookworms. If I'm a bookworm, great. I think we need to graduate What does Mashiach really mean? Fundamentally, the time of exile Now we're looking for substitutes. I go to the books, This one is doing his thing. We're all on our phones. Some good stuff we do, We're all running around for substitutes. The fundamental truth of human existence, is in jail in our minds and our hearts. So it seems like in the hardest points thing that the Jews have turned towards. Why is it that that is what gives us hope? Out of all things, Mashiach is a man. Excellent question. For the Jewish people, Mashiach when we'll be able to look back and say, Now, think about that. Tell me, there is something will justify for 2,000 years of torment? Is there even any great goodness that will justify the death of one child, Tell me what exactly That you and I, and anybody can look back The answer is, there's nothing. Because we completely don't even Clinging to Mashiach meant clinging That's what Mashiach meant collectively It meant that as much pain is unscathed. Belief in Mashiach We may be alienated from ourselves. Humanity needs a lot of healing, and But it's healing to come That's what belief in Mashiach In New York, I can understand It's a little bit of a rough environment. It's cold outside today. Funny policies, crazy people But Miami, such a nice place, warm expanding Jewish communities, palm trees. Do you think they want Mashiach So I've had the privilege many times, and my gut tells me I'm going to have to go Do that. Hello, sunny Miami. I am excited to be here. And for everybody that's watching, to continue my trip for a few more days. Let's see what Florida has to offer. I I watch your stuff every day. That's so cool. Thank you, man. Do you mind if I ask you a question In Judaism, we believe He's going to end all wars, He's going to end all famine, No women to live happily ever after. Have you ever heard Have you ever heard of that before? No. It's coming, baby. Have you ever heard It sounds nice, no? I guess the Jewish people but it comes less volcano-y. This trip would not be complete I'm on the way now to go visit Rabbi One of the reasons why we came to Miami needs Mashiach in such a beautiful place? Do the people here care about Mashiach? Who wants to leave here? Why should people even if they could enjoy life here? You're touching an excellent point. Aventura, the United States That's why our sages called United States But regretfully, with October 7, never even thought that it existed. Fear factors, Regretfully, you come into the synagogues, schools became a fortress, all kinds they were not that enforceable. Mashiach will bring harmony to the world, Anger, jealousy, envy, war will not exist. Why will all of these things, Envy will not exist. I think that we need to go a bit deeper things now and what will change. And I like to quote, with your permission. The Rambam at the end of Hilchot Melachim, chapter 11, verse 9. Translation. The Earth, the world, like the water covers the ocean. Today, Godliness in certain areas is But the world will have this spirit of anti-Semitism, will disappear. The enemies will bring down the weapons of harmony, of belief in Hashem. If we change that, if we increase My next talk is with rabbi Lipskar, He's world famous for the work but the incredible work I'm excited to hear his A question that many people have is, And I've heard people say that they almost So when is Mashiach coming? So you have to understand first about They've been asking that for three I believe that until recently, Now, Mashiach is waiting for us. There's a fundamental question which was it meant to be a Jew? Hashem chose us, loves us, and at the same puts us at risk for the time we're born. So Isaiah says,. You're a light. A Jew is a light. The nature of light because darkness is not a substance. Darkness is just a negative. So Hashem says to us, you're a light. In order to be a light, But I'm going to give you a secret potion. I'm going to connect you with a level The Jew is not limited by that. Which means each of us can We can live a Mashiach life. The exact moment is now. Wherever you are, the exact moment is now. Mashiach is here. It's peaked through the cracks waiting for us to open the door. That's it. Thank you for your time. My trip to Florida Rabbi Efron Goldberg of Boca Raton. What this man has achieved and created Boca Raton is an incredible thing to see. And I'm asking myself, beautiful place when Mashiach comes? I'm excited to hear his perspective is all about. I think one of the confusions about Mashiach today is they don't even I think a lot of people think they're The food is going be great. We're all going to be I mean, what is that thing that we should What is the essence of really what it is? A lot of people hear Mashiach, and they Boca Ratton, sitting under palm They never have to work again. But that's not at all what Most of the way we live now We're going to go to work. We're going to shop. We're going to have to find our mate. We're going to have to live life to in this physical material world. The difference will be, That confidence, that calm, It comes from God. So that's what we're longing for, Berel. What we're looking forward to, and peace and tranquility. And in fact, the people who previously they're going to want a piece And the address to tap into that light That pleasure, that is wisdom, of it, and the world will be So Mashiach sounds amazing. Boca Raton feels amazing. And I mean, why would you I mean, I don't see anti-Semitism, that I feel scared. Where does Israel come Sure. Life is good, and we should be grateful Imagine you have a home and that's where it's comfortable, But you have a business So on that business trip, You're in a hotel. The whole time you're on that business at that moment. But eventually, the goal We're on business trips There's business to be done. There's redemption to advance. There's an impact to have. There's an influence to be felt. But eventually, our mission, And home is Israel. That's where Mashiach will come. That's where Mashiach will collect us. Kibutz Galouyot, it's one of the things ingathering of the Jews from the exiles. Is what you're trying No. We're grateful and we're comfortable, They also said that Berlin That wasn't home, and this isn't home. You know, it's a hard pill to swallow. You grow up your whole life, This place, although it has been really is not our final destination. And after learning so much will be like when Mashiach does come, cannot become comfortable anywhere. We were sleeping. October seventh, 2023, made us realize Our neighbors, our friends, our followers They told us who they are. They told us why they don't like us. They told us why they don't And the one Jewish place, the one Jewish world, that's what they want to destroy. Iran and the Ayatollah regime to the Jewish people and to the existence They are hell-bent on the destruction They spend their days, their hours, figuring out how to wipe a people The worst part is their reverberations They've managed to capture that have always scapegoated the Jews. We thought that this was over. It's far from over. I'm not a guy that gets scared easily, I'm afraid for my kids, I'm afraid for my family. And do we still have to be scared? I don't think that this trip can possibly be compl and to fully understand the grand idea through the lens of the land of Israel. Landing in Israel in Ben Gurion Airport could truly understand. Landing in a country that I'm glad to be here, and I'm glad through the lens of Mashiach. I have to admit something Before October seventh, on social media, about Israel at all, partly I was scared of the backlash, and probably about is that their rhetoric and their propaganda is so strong that it actually starts to manipulate even my mind. Why is this land so important? Why could it not have been Uganda? Why could it not have Come, I want to show you something. On this wall, there is a Pasuk. There is a verse written in the Tanakh, in the Bible. His name is Zaharia. What he says after the Jewish people they owned, they lost their house, their country, the people feel terrible. He comes and says, Guys, cheer up. Why ? You'll have women and children The city streets, the city streets will be filled And when he wrote this, it was desolated. He had lost his country. And today, what do you see? You see this happening. Do you need more proof than this When you see this happening, happening right before our very own eyes. This is not the prophecy. If you ask me, the prophecy is over there That's the actual story. Amazing. The Prophecies are beautiful, so much Jewish blood that has And it seems to be so ingrained The love for this land is to give up their lives just to ensure We want Mashiach now. We want Mashiach now. They're not just protecting They're protecting every Jew Don't ask me how, but I managed army to say thank you on behalf of Jews group of soldiers at their ceremony. From outside of the land of Israel, stand with you so strong. We love you, we appreciate you. We pray for you. Am Israel Chai ! It's hard for Jews living to understand what it means to There's a woman, her name is Jenn Eirly. She just lost one of her sons, after October seventh. I want to go understand how to reconcile this tremendous darkness I know that you lost your son My deepest condolences. Thank you so much for sharing You experienced a very hard moment, undoubtedly the hardest moment And yet it doesn't seem to get you down. You're smiling. So first of all, I have a motto And we've been through hard, through hard, and we just... Okay, so it's hard. And... So it's hard. But when you know that we're part towards Mashiach with every fiber of our of moving forward even stronger. And what is it exactly that you were most looking forward to. Look, us personally, I If we get Mashiach and we get the Beit of the dead, and we get to hold our Binyamin, we get to dance with our Binyamin, we get to share again You just brought up, it may seem, after Mashiach comes. It's such a big subject, that we have no conception of. I would love to learn more about that. And I think that you just Techiyat Hametim, revival of the Dead after you typically think about, and it's often But after hearing Jen's story, And I need to find out exactly to actually play out practically. To answer this question, I'm on my way in Jerusalem to learn from one I'm excited to go visit the place where Why Resurrection of the Dead? Why not just keep everybody alive Why does everyone have What's the relevance of it all? Okay, it's a very good question. I think the first thing that needs resurrection of the dead, of the fundamentals of Judaism. One view is that the resurrection The reason why people die is a tragedy In other words, initially, After the Messianic era, every soul who deserves is connect to God as a full human being. Because a human being is not The human being is a unified being, So, Rabbi, of course, it sounds nice, to get there to believe Resurrection is something We've never experienced it. But, logically, if someone who has never so that's a much larger leap So why does the resurrection So the resurrection requires that the And that's really what the role service of God, Jews and Gentiles alike. And obviously, there's differences in terms of how we serve God. But as long as the world is not the world that God wants to have Until now, I've been focusing mainly on think that I have to now look at it from It's interesting. The whole world is going The Christians, the Muslims, Atheists, If there's one Rabbi that I know subject, it's Rabbi Tovia Singer. So we believe that obviously God runs And we can't ignore the fact he brought Muhammad into this world. And there must be a purpose. We can't discount them completely. So how do they fit within As it turns out, more than half the world, believe in the Torah is the word of God. Moses appears in the Quran Why is this? Why do we have a world that's filled The majority of this planet The reason is very simple. They believe that Judaism They believe there were mitzvot The only thing is that the Commandments found in the Torah they believe in those religions, and they What will happen when the Mashiach comes? Everyone will come to the Jew Let's go with you. Everything we're talking about are going to come serve God as one, If you and I were having a conversation the Jewish people return to the land Well, here we are 100 years unfolding before our eyes right now. There are organizations that The Temple Institute, as an example, to be used in the final temple, their mandate as kohanim on one of them. Well, I think you just gave me My friend Yitzhak Rubin was kind enough to It's incredible to see all of in the Torah and to see these replicas Yitzchak wanted to show me the crown jewel a Menora made out of solid gold. This is the crown jewel of the Temple Incredible. As precious as it is monetarily, because it represents the light. It represents spirituality in the world. It's a paradigm shift about how to look were so esoteric, and now you're really Yes. We need to show Hashem Maybe if we show some signs of life Hashem is waiting for it to bring it on. The Beit Hamikdach, the The third temple everything that has to do with Mashiach. It seems to be the focus disputed, controversial, spoken about I need to understand from the ground up be the Beit Hamikdash, the third temple. Let's go discover some hidden secrets. I want to show you the Western Wall show you something above us. These are the Western Wall Stones These are the original Western Wall Wait, So what you're saying is the Western, the Wailing Wall. What you're saying is It goes, this is part of it? People don't realize. They think that's it, and they don't It's incredible. They don't get a feeling for the enormity was made to honor God 2,000 years ago. This is a ritual bathroom 2,000 years ago. This is one of the secrets of Jerusalem. Jerusalem still has secrets. And think about it, when the Third Temple waiting for the people to come. The Temple, according to the oral Okay. That's the size of the temple. And when Mashiach comes and he rebuilds going to be the same size? Is it going to look the same? Well, Ezekiel, in his prophecy, and it's larger than we have here. It's going to be enormous, room to accept the Jewish people collect them from all This adventure but I still have one last question in this world could truly answer for me. And that's my dear sweet Rabbi. His name is Rabbi Zalman Kaplan. He's a Rosh Yeshiva in Sfat. And I'm hoping that he's going to help me Traveling from Jerusalem in Tel Aviv to get a sandwich. I haven't been here in so long. There's no question that this place there's for sure a different energy here I can't exactly put my finger on it. I would love to spend more time getting for me, and hopefully I'll be back. The reason why Rabbi Zalman was when I was becoming religious, he was talk to me, to teach me, to help me grow. He ended up moving from Montreal, over his father's old yeshiva, and he with hundreds of incredible students Berel, I'm so happy you came here. Thank you for having me. How's the trip doing? It's been more than I thought And it's a lot, to be honest with you. And I have one question more Mashiach, it's amazing. We all want it. But the last thing is, Are we sitting ducks just I'll tell you, I knew that you were going obviously the most important question. Let's sit down. I want to show you something This is Maimonide's in the laws Every person must see himself He's half And he says, If you do one wrong in the wrong direction, God forbid. One positive action, one mitzvah, you tip the scale towards redemption. I think that's the key point. The key point is, can we live like that? Can we live every moment of our life in mind, maybe this act, Before I went on this whole journey, I was people because of all the anti-Semitism But today, I see that Jewish people is closer than ever. I still have that question, What do I have to do right now? Look, Berel, you know very well, Hashem And the big question that we have using my special abilities to ignite other people, to do another mitzvah? Just try to make a greater awareness of of the fact that we can do a mitzvah. I say, I think we have to start looking So I said, you go to Tel Aviv, or you can look for the godly spark. On the way here, I stopped in Tel Aviv felt Mashiach vibes in Tel Aviv. Obviously, Beryl, you went for a sandwich, I think you have to go back go with a different perspective. Go with a Mashiach perspective, a little bit different. Interesting. It's a completely different Okay. I have to change my outlook, I guess. It's a big job, Berel. It's a great merit. I love this man so much, I needed, clear marching orders. Before I head back to Ben Gurion Airport, I want to ask you, No, not yet, thank you. Yeah. God bless you anyways. Do you guys want to put on Tfilin that Hashem should release them? You want to put on Tfilin? Come on, 60 seconds. Leave it in God's hands. Leave God out of the way? We don't always understand Hashem's ways. We never understand Hashem's ways. You want to put on Tefilin? It hurt to be rejected. And maybe I didn't create a fire I was able to light a spark. Can I still give you a hug? I love you. I love you, man. It's going to be okay. I love you. Thank you for understanding. We should see only good things. You want to put on Tefilin ? You sure? Oh, I see you on TikTok. Yeah. How are you? You want to put on Tefilin with me for 60 seconds? Yes. Yeah. When was the last time you put on Tefilin? Hum, Bar Mitsva. Wow. Beautiful. We're doing it for the hostages. We're doing it for our soul. We're doing it to bring Mashiach. It's been a little bit tough. A lot of people said no. Hashem should answer all of your prayers at the opportunity for a mitzvah. The true strength of the Jewish people And the only way to bring Mashiach Shemma Yisrael, Adonai, You're a good man I love you. Thank you man. I love you. Kol Hakavod ! Thank you very much. Very, very proud. Appreciate it. I can't forget about the most important My Dad. Love you, Dad. Love you, too, son. Wish me luck. Good luck. But you don't need luck Amen. I have news for you, Iran. I have news for you, Ayatollah. I have news for you, Hamas, and anybody in any way, shape, or form. There is no stopping There will be peace on Earth, I'm heading home to Panama, because I have so much knowledge that I Hello? It's Berel Solomon speaking. Hi, Berel. How's it going? Good, good, good. I am heading home. I've been in Israel for the past few days, by to school next week and give a class. Oh, yeah? About Mashiach. Oh, yeah? What would you talk about? That Mashiach is coming. That he's coming? Look, I'll present it I'm not sure it'll be much Okay. Let me know, okay? We'd like to have you, but I'll see. We'll be in touch. Thank you so much. Look, I have to do my best, and I have that I have to give over now, How's the food, guys? It's yummy. Oh, you cook so nicely. Did you have a good day? Did you play with your friends? How are you? Good ! Oh Tattie's home ! Hey ! Hey how are you ? Hi Ellie ! Hi ! Welcome ! Oh I missed you guys! Daddy, don't leave again. Okay, mommy, I won't. How are you? Good. I missed you. I can't believe I was so scared. Us as parents, we have a job the next generation of Jewish warriors. God forbid, not warriors that carry guns, of light and goodness Everybody knows that the best place to is with Jewish children. Good morning. I'm so sorry, I'm late. We're happy to have you. I actually have a big surprise for you. Every now and then, you get a very special moment when you work so hard on something and you thought Then you realize that what meant so much to so many people. And this moment in my life I have good news. Mashiach is ready to come right now. All we have to do is increase It says we have to storm the heavens. So repeat after me. We... Want... Mashiach... Mashiach... Now... Imagine that you were the one... Yes, you right now watching this. That you were the one that finally of goodness and kindness What a life worth living. What a beautiful existence And Moses led the Jewish people took them out with a very strong hand. You know what this reminds me of, guys? What? When Mashiach comes, he's going and there's not going to be any more war, hunger, and there's not going to be Daddy, can you tell Mashiach Sure, Chaim. I'll tell him to buy you a firetruck.