[Barbie silver vette] [This is it, Barbie.] [Our high fashion car] Throughout history there have been many great The space program, the Internet, McDonald's, and, of course, the mother F'in Corvette, the American Chariot of Retirement, a brand new red Corvette that your lifetime dedication to hard work was worth it. The Chevy Corvette is a symbol of America that pumps blood through your veins and its history is cemented The Corvette has been with us through our greatest hardships, and hundreds of little wins along the way. As ubiquitous as the hamburger, the only sports car your boring ass old grandmother can name from Barbie to the president. The Corvette is America, But freedom isn't free like democracy itself. The Corvette's very existence Is always teetering on the brink of failure. Watered down by stuffy suits. Budgets cut by out-of-touch accountants and constantly threatened by the Italian, In the early nineties, the Corvette faced its hardest trial yet. But in that darkest hour, a brave group of true believers picked up their wrenches, and got to work in secret die hard devotees proud card holding members of the I Can't Drive 55 Club. These brave few toiled in the dark to save one of America's greatest icons, the Chevy Corvette. In 1953, the first Corvette was revealed It was America's attempt to build shapely lines, rear wheel drive and an all It was one of the most significant cars and it kind of sucked. Look, those of us from the easy cheese big power and straight lines. The European idea of a lightweight for carving apexes wasn't really our vibe. And while the C1 did have the main problem was and this was back in the fifties, This decision to go with a six cylinder to be another weird, forgotten car, Thankfully, after designer Harley Earl It found its way into the hands of Zora knew how to save the Corvette. He swapped out that week's ass Inline six for Chevy's And doing from that point in 1955 on the Corvette was the American benchmark. Mostly because it was cheap, World War Two vets were importing. Now, with that V8, it had the performance chops to back it up The C1 evolved into the C2, the stingray a more aerodynamic design After that came the Mako shark inspired C3 then and I swear The oil crisis ruined the fun. You know the story. Blah, blah, blah. Cars sucked and that included the now horsepower from a V8 Chevy Corvette Chevy needed to prove Their engineers redesigned the car from the ground up, handling, over straight line speed, you could get in an American sled, what they had created was the darling [Maximum lateral acceleration.] [Only one of these cars can hold the road [It isnt the Porsche 928 s.] [It isnt the Ferrari 308 GTSI.] [its the Chevrolet Corvette.] [That's what it takes to be a new world Chevy's new C4 Corvette was a massive leap Here now was this growling V-8 under A car that, unlike its American muscle could absolutely go around a track It was a true return to American form. The Viper hadn't even been hatched yet, was too busy fiddling around The only place you could find but you were an average blue collar Bud You couldn't afford no Porsche Hardworking Americans mine, And they did. In 1984, more than 50,000 fiberglass That's more than the total number period. But unlike the Corvette, So did the Z and the 911. The C4 Corvette had justifiably painted and thanks to low company in Japan with that growing competition the Corvette sales numbers By the time the 1990s rolled around, Corvettes were being sold per year, Then in 1992, facing bankruptcy, GM's president, slit The next generation Corvette, on the 40th anniversary of the name, had Reuss directed the company because he believed Pontiac was going [we build excitement] [that you'll love to try] [pontiac] It's insane. a sports car with a heritage, decades old, sent to an early grave Thankfully, who was the head of the division had a different idea [We don't know what it is] [get him down here.] [What the hell is going on] [Enhance that] [Does anybody have any idea what this is?] [I do it's the next Vette.] [Get me one.] Now our boy, Joe Spielman, isn't He wasn't your typical blue collar He was a Harvard educated numbers guy. But if you stabbed him, While Joe was in college He saved up enough money working odd jobs to buy his first of many Corvettes. and eventually found himself as the head of Medium Cars Manufacturing at General Motors in the late 80s he got his dream he was excited to be part of the new corvette project together, with the newly appointed Dave Hill he had been hard at work on the When that axe man came knocking. but rather than give up and scrap Joel and Dave rolled everything warehouse, For backup, they called Jim Perkins. In the 1960s, Perkins he had interviewed And the interview went so poorly But like Horacio Pagani did Jim showed up anyway. So in a show of good faith, and told him to get to work. Jim quickly worked his way up entirely to go work on launching He couldn't stay away for long, though. he would return to GM in the late eighties And when he got the call from Joel he was devastated. But once he heard and were storing it out of sight, Perkins started he had a lot of money He figured that, hey, So he started allocating those funds continue developing the Corvette in secret as Perkins scraped together Spielman brought on Russ McLean. Russ was at the time working in Mexico, He knew how to cut corners Perkins, Spielman and McLean figured out development project using leftover money All they needed was a million here, And for no one to ask any questions. Because if the executives it would likely end the careers So during the middle of the night, these devoted for continuing [the first rumors began circulating that a [and they were true] [this corvette was expected Tucked away in secret in that little shed, Hill and his team pieced together First, What the hell is hydro form steel? I had to look it up. Think of a crumpled water bottle. But instead of plastic, it's steel. You stick it inside of something. You fill it with water For engineers, forces are evenly distributed making it strong and also lightweight essentially by making steel balloon animals The team made ultra strong, And then attached to the back of that Look, the journey to the Mid-Engine and I'll probably But this step of moving the transmission was a giant step forward by separating This new Corvette would have that coveted The final piece of the puzzle GM ever developed. A Pushrod eight Piston evolution of the small block engines Redesigned from the ground up using modern the LS1 You've definitely heard of it. Every restomod, every kitcar. Hell, every time someone blows an engine car, the LS1 is the engine It's Pushrod design keeps it compact. The simplicity of the small block design balance of the V-8 makes it perfect The simple, powerful the de facto choice of dragsters, kit, with those three ingredients, All they had to do was make sure in the Arizona desert, dressed in A group of men pushed a car off a trailer it just looked like a C4 Corvette The body panels didn't fit quite right. The wheels stuck out from the fenders But under that ill fitting hydro formed LS powered C5. Jim Perkins made sure that immediately he recognized that Those four boys had created Confident from feeling Jim Perkins went to a meeting In his briefcase. He carried a secret weapon. 800 magazine covers Every previous generation of Corvette of the power of the emblem 800 exhibits of evidence that showed those stuffy was important, that automobile enthusiasts adore the V-8 tires shredder Armed with his briefcase. Perkins looked Lloyd Royce in the eye was an American icon, And it worked. The C5 team received the blessing They ripped and attached a fiberglass shell all the way back in 1988 A beautiful wind tunnel inspired design that was meant to be the modern It was a combination and it would slip In 1997, the United States and the world got their first taste four years after it was originally slated made in secret, saved by a ragtag team finally met its adoring waiting public. This was the new Corvette and this was the best Corvette. [the all new Corvette,] [the official car of your dreams] If you ask the engineers behind the C5, they'll tell you that it was 250% It was faster, lighter, handled better, had that LS V8 under the hood. I mean, hell, it was even practical. Thanks to Dave Hill's focus on lightness, had to try to push the C5 down the road, it even had luggage space. The American public bought C5 in classic Chevy style Every year convertible 50th anniversary and the ultimate C5 Z06. A trim they hadn't used since the C2 way Now a staple of the Corvette brand. The Z06 was lighter, only available And it breathed out 400 beer Most importantly, though, was serve as an excellent base You see, the C5 was a ground up but like your favorite Bethesda game, The following C6 was the patched shorter, wider and more powerful. It shared most of the same components except for one notable feature. The C5 Corvette was to be to have pop up headlights since they were outlawed in the States The new C6 would have fixed lamps and I'm even wrote songs about it. Or maybe they just hated good visibility Either way, the C6 was known Dave Hill, engineer like to use percentages The C5 was 250% better than the C4, He said that it was 90% of the way and the C6 would be that final 10% That new generation of ls motor up to the LS6, the Ls2 The performance of the C6 made the world Now, unfortunately, was that ugly interior also known as classic But very quickly after that, they noticed The C6 could even nip at the heels And most importantly, Dollar for dollar. You could not get better performance and honestly, That is the beauty of a Corvette. It's the democratization of horsepower. Now, the C5 and C6 were wildly successful, everyone now could afford to own But its successes did not end there. Now, having conquered the American showroom, The Corvette team [dramatically quick sweeps here] [the great rumbling corvettte engine] [thundering across the line Decades earlier. In 1972, Bob Johnson and C3 Corvette In the 24 hours of Le Mans Sure, it wasn't a win, but it was an incredible achievement So far from home. But then, for decades, there was nothing. for so long, GM's shining sports cars stayed stateside C5 was seen hurtling down the after nearly four decades, two years later, C5s took home a One-Two finish and then again in 2002 ripping victory away from bespoke cars and stepping on the neck of Italy's Ferrari. In 2005, the c6r took over where the C5 began so fittingly American. The c6r was the loudest car on the track, but its bark was backed up by pure bite. The C6 r was a force to be reckoned with finished one two at Le Mans The following year. In 2006, the Corvette would stand again they pulled ahead of Aston Martin In the end, before being replaced The C5 and C6 scored seven and ten victories one of the most successful GT cars A pretty incredible achievement On paper. The newly born C5 Corvette was dumb. A big, wide, impractical sports car made of sloppy parts Its grip on the earth was managed by cavemen suspension. The Corvette should not have handled It was made of steel and plastic The Corvette should not have worked. It was motivated by a simple Pushrod V8 while Italy's best cars screamed around The Corvette should not have performed proper fast cars, had their powerplant The Stone Age Corvette had its V8 sitting in front of its driver. The Corvette should not have been competitive and yet, once the C5 generation at showrooms and racetracks, none of that mattered because the Corvette was American. Sure, easy to make fun of. Comprised of disparate parts what everyone else in the world is doing but still the freaking best. Today, the Corvette has ascended with bleeding edge technology But one cannot forget that 40 years ago, risked their entire careers Perkins had said that the Corvette and he was right. from its birth as an underpowered rag top to its current status as the road the Corvette has a part of us Proof that we Americans We can do it faster. We can do it simpler and we can do it cheaper. our most resolute example that American motor heads will stare squint, rub their chins and spit and build a car our own damn way the right way, Because no one on God's green earth [Well done, fat man from Kentucky.] [This is a masterpiece.] These people rule.