Ashraf, looks like you're losing your job soon. In the meantime, let's look at 7 app ideas This video has three goals. The first is to educate - before or starting a business with AI at its core, The second is to focus - people treat AI like but it's been around forever - be of a trend with some timeless business The third is to inspire - Based on makes businesses profitable, we'll But I know why you all clicked see if any of my ideas are worth trying out. So let's go to part 3 first: Seven app ideas that leverage AI and - I Using AI to Produce Authentic I said produce, not predict actual And even if you could do it, don't do it. Cheating is bad. Once an AI model has analyzed enough questions it will be able to generate slight variations - and because it will the variations will be restricted to You can leverage OpenAI's AI English instructions to allow users to like to attempt - they can specify exam This isn't new - Cambridge is already including written and spoken papers. That's just one example, a There are a million exams out there delivered train your AI model to specialize Also, by training it on existing marking schemes, it can accurately grade answers and provide it provides real time feedback to An app like this would make physical and who wants to score well in an exam will traditional Learning Management number of questions. Meanwhile, your Asian parents all over the world will love you Using AI to Create a Test The first entry focused more on But a lot of language papers have speaking tests. Speaking is logistically the hardest skill to A partner that can listen to you and reply and A conversation When it comes to exams, you can't the tasks will test specific speaking ability to correct yourself, staying For this reason, you can't But I can. I'm definitely firing Ashraf. Anyways you need a partner familiar with the exam If you're a working adult, or you it can be very difficult to find But who says it has to be someone? I'm specifically thinking of ChatGPT here - this language input and produce human-like replies. text translator and train the AI model on exam You got yourself a speaking partner. So now, an exam candidate can use your app as their speaking partner. The AI doesn't it understands the exam task that's Think of it as the Siri of speaking Using AI to Design Funky-Looking Consumer Products For the right price, people have never Go into any niche and you will see the same thing. Motorcycle helmets Hoodies Guitars Jewellery My personal suggestion for something These already exist, but one, they don't look You want to dive deep into a particular cool geometric sleeves, or portraits of Michael Jackson dancing. Michael Jackson eating breakfast. I dunno - I like Michael Jackson. To really take it to the next level, parts and map designs to them.This way, and they can actually test a design to Whatever you choose to specialize in, your to be trained on a dataset comprising tons as well as anything related This is something that both normal but you really want to aim for tattoo artists who will be willing to pay for high-quality Using AI to Transcribe &amp; Even up till now, companies that do because AI is not quite as reliable when it comes It's pretty much impossible to teach AI how to detect something like sarcasm - even And by people, I mean my girlfriend. However, it's definitely possible and chunks of meaning like phrases and Chicken Individually, they have separate 'chicken fingers' and you have what's You can definitely train AI to understand accurately translate chunks One case study you can use is Papago - they're translations, and their AI model learns from its As far as I know, there isn't yet anything as good the transcribing and super accurate you could even offer multiple translations in one track and the AI transcribes it, then immediately Translation companies would kill to have a can spend their time focusing on that last Hey, like you, I'm excited to see where the to dive deeper into AI and mobile apps, Back to the next AI app idea. Using AI to Simplify Complex Legal Documents If you've ever had to read a Those things are: Confusing Long-winded, and Sometimes, you don't have a choice - you might need to fully understand a need to reply to a letter from What people normally do is show the explain what the hell it's saying. They The main issue here is cost But AI is. OpenAI can already be trained to points. It can also write custom emails ...I By training AI on the present laws of a that can analyze legal documents and summarize You could even get it to draft replies or It could be trained to highlight any it reads the fine print for you and says, hey, the wording in these parts sounds a bit I think this is an especially 1. It's gonna be hard to do. still very old-fashioned because it's dominated by legal services just as much, and you would be in If you don't have a background in law yourself, can provide expert input and lend Also, keep in mind that different countries and cannot legally offer services like this - Using AI to Rapidly Create Criminal Sketches When a crime happens and you they've got a sketch artist that draws a sketch Thing is, depending on how much time elapses sketch artist, a lot of detail can be forgotten, Even worse, it's possible our and the description is now completely off. I think there's huge potential for an app that colour photograph - of a perpetrator - tattoos, hairstyle and whatever else It can then make adjustments to the photo based on further input - make the gap between the make one eye squint a little - exactly Only now, the memory is still fresh and you In fact, as we were working on this attempt to create this. It's still in closed but the developers were going to reach Using AI to Generate Aquascape Suggestions This piggybacks off of Pieter Level's The app lets you upload an image of a room, to turn it into, and then it creates visual It's been extremely successful, generating I have an idea that leverages identical AI functions, but for a niche yet still Aquascaping is like gardening underwater. The rocks and wood in an aesthetically pleasing way. Many of you will be surprised this is even hear that annually, it is a hundred million - There are tons of international aquascaping all over the world, namely the annual Aquatic As you can see, just like with interior design, there are different themes For example, the biotope category is all The Dutch style focuses on arranging plants This app would be identical to interior.ai, designs, you're going to train it on tons so it can help hobbyists think I hope you can see that it doesn't have that requires some sort of creative design that's Some Basic Terminology For Newbies Dataset &amp; Training AI There are tons of AI models out there As it is, OpenAI has a few different AI models, ChatGPT is the most famous, specializing in understanding input and But ChatGPT itself is more like Depending on what you want to use AI for, you may As they are, these models have which should be narrowed down Think of a model as a fresh graduate: they have you need to teach them about We do that by training AI Datasets here mean specific and accurate whatever output you want the AI model to produce. What Makes a Business Idea Worthwhile? This is best answered by looking at actual Copy.ai Quickchat Like all other businesses, AI or Specificity The businesses themselves are very which means users know what they can expect. All of them have taken a particular AI model, Next: Demand That use has to have sufficient demand. There's no point specifying your product What normally happens is and it's unnecessarily complicated your eureka moment because chances are That's the normal way. There's also the batshit crazy way. for the gap to come to you. You go to the gap. This man launched startup after startup only 4 out of over 70 projects were a But his 6% has made him a millionaire. So - specificity and demand, and because Remember The Rest of Your App! You're developing an AI-powered app. You need to make sure this part is user experience people will be willing to pay for. Often, an app like that will Even after development, if you keeps up with changes to a technology If the term 'app maintenance cost' but if you're serious about pursuing They may point out how your idea isn't like it - that's fine, by the way, If possible, I strongly advise you to find It would be a shame if your idea didn't meet its full potential because of But I get it if you'd rather costs low and work in a low-risk environment. In that case, I'd recommend you watch my share my thoughts on which no-code platform What you'll definitely want is a no-code OpenAI's API - or any AI model's API AI at the end of your app's AI is super exciting and honestly, I'm I wonder who else I can fire. Maybe...myself? Wait, can I do that? Can a founder fire Oh well, hope you found this video has and I will see you in the