Mia: What is really alarming oncologists is this sharp rise in cancer I was 35 when I was diagnosed kind of in early 2023. I was diagnosed with Stage 3 I was laying in bed and that I had, and at the bottom or colorectal cancer, and I That's what my grandparents Mia: When you look at the with cancer at a young age, so that risk has increased It's mysterious, it's concerning, and it's something that is trying to work out right now. Everyone's recognizing I'm Mia de Graaf, and I'm a health editor Rates of cancer among young people are rising sharply worldwide, but particularly in certain countries that conform to what we would So that's places like the US, certain parts of Europe. These are all places that eat Things that are easy, places where people are or have poorer sleep schedules. So there are 14 cancers broadly that are increasing really breast cancer, colorectal esophagus, bile duct, gallbladder, liver, bone marrow, and thyroid. Those are all ones which are increasing in people under the age of 50. The oncologists that I've spoken to who treat younger patients, the vast majority of patients they see actually seem like a picture of health when they come in. They might be marathon runners or leading incredibly healthy active lives but still have this cancer I've also spoken to a about how mind-boggling it is at such a young age. I was an adamant CrossFit enthusiast, and I had spent a lot of my 30s kind of refocusing my diet on trying to be what we all kind of That, coupled with my young that is something you're for decades. It was incredibly shocking. When you are a young age, you are in this kind You might be caring you might be starting you might be trying to save At that time, getting a cancer diagnosis can be extremely destabilizing. I was diagnosed in September of 2015. I got a colonoscopy, and within and they took 80% of my colon out and started on this crazy long journey of colon cancer at 27. A person born in 1990 has quadruple the risk of being diagnosed compared to a person born in 1950. By 2030, colorectal cancer is as the leading cause of cancer The unfortunate thing about is it really focuses on a part of our body that we as society have been conditioned to think of as embarrassing or things we don't want to talk about. People even in my town still don't associate colon That's a huge, like, kind of The thing with colorectal cancer is that a lot of people Stage 4, very advanced, and the tumors also This is something obviously when Chadwick Boseman died. He died of colorectal cancer, by the time it was discovered. And that's something in young people. In terms of what's causing among young people, there's many different factors that researchers are looking at. Screening has increased, and it has helped us to But that sharp rise that we it just cannot be accounted If this was accounted for by screening, we would actually be seeing and that's not really what's We're seeing a surprising with later-stage cancers, too. One of the main factors because eight of the 14 cancers which are increasing among young people are related to the digestive tract. And our diet has changed a and we know that the diets that and in other high-income So that's more red meat, more low intake of water, food low in fiber. It can increase your risk of diabetes. That can affect how you control insulin. These are all things that So then you have inactivity. So if you're living a perhaps you're not moving around as much, you're not burning as many calories. You don't have that regular movement which offsets inflammation in the body. Poor sleep is a really big factor, which, if you speak to any oncologist, they will talk to you Very often, people will be up and then they'll wake up or you get a lot of which you didn't have in pre-1950. One of the factors which when we're talking about young So obviously there are We do suspect that they're playing a role. They're much harder to measure. So children today seem to that they probably wouldn't in the 1950s, and that's why we're trying to parse out, is there a shift in terms of in the environment now? One of the rogue factors that is increased height. So generally, humans are getting bigger. We are all much taller these days. There does seem to be a correlation. With increased height is but it is there, and one of the theories is that simply having increases the risk for more cell division, which could increase the The way you're born is a really interesting for cancer. So if you're born by according to a few studies, have an increased risk of cancer. There was a study done in Sweden recently that caused a big splash, which by a C-section had an increased risk of colorectal cancer in And we have seen other via c-section increases a When you have a vaginal birth, the baby is coated with microbes, and that seems to We've seen this sharp We don't know exactly what Can we reverse this trend? Is it going in a linear fashion? In terms of turning this trend around, the most important thing We need to better understand and until we better understand the causes, we can't make a societal A lot of attention is paid to what we could be doing as individuals. So you'll hear everyone talk about diet and how you should be being part of a community, drink less alcohol, don't and then of course, do But really, if we want and to turn this trend around, it is an infrastructure question. So can we make cities more walkable, or can we make it easier for There are some positives. The rate of cancer mortality is way down. We've made so much progress There are certain vaccines that has dramatically reduced mortality from head and neck cancers, for example. And then we're also that are to do with alcohol Of course it's alarming, but the whole cancer community and is starting to pour into this area to try and And I think that momentum is