- We are back. I'm chatting it up, but Jimmy Allen. Give it up for Jimmy. (everyone claps) - So for my birthday we are 'cause it's my show and I So it's been quite a journey for Jude since we first met him at My music director, Jason Halbert's, totally taken him under his wing 'cause we fell in love with him and they've been working hard that matches Jude's vision, so check this out. Well Jude, do you know what Is it something involving with music? - Well, I wanna do music professionally and I hope I can write (upbeat organ music) - From the first moment we You better what? - We knew he was special and Playing with the band. Jason has offered to mentor you. - Ooh. - What? we'd like you to come back - Oh my god. - So we can hear what (audience cheers) Jason started his mentorship by heading to Jude's home in Colorado to really see him in his element. - When did you start playing, Mr. Jason? - I started playing around six years old. It was very similar to you And when I was a kid I which as you know, there's many different - Oh, and I'm autistic, too. - [Kelly] As Jason and Jude's incredible talent was so obvious. - I heard you already - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - And do you write lyrics as well or you just kind of focus on the music? - [Jude] I just kind I wanna write about hope and faith. - [Jason] Everyone can use - [Jude] In the good times and the bad. - [Jason] Absolutely. So that's a good universal topic. - [Kelly] We asked Jude and there was no hesitation in his answer. - I do like CeCe Winans, too. I've been trying to get (laughs) Her new song, I Believe, is incredible. - [Kelly] Jason and Jude and work together on the song. - Hi, Jude. I got to see your house, I wanna show you my - Oh wow. And next time you're here, we're gonna bring you up - Oh, yeah. all of our engineering and recording. And this is the program I was telling you, I'm gonna get you a copy of this. Yeah, so I do need your When it's the verse, hold up a V. - Okay. give me a C. (relaxing music) - Well, Jude, you've already You've given us a great (upbeat music) - [Kelly] When Jude came back to the show, he blew us away as he sat in Jason also had a special - I've got to your own laptop, which we're gonna get Logic on here. - Thank you. on your song on this. - [Kelly] With his new laptop, Jason made sure Jude had to continue arranging his original song. - So this is Logic. Ah, it shows the chords. - Yeah. You ready to record it? (relaxing music) - So your 11, right? - Good, so you can't take (laughs) All right, love you, man. - [Kelly] Once the the song was ready for lyrics. So Jason enlisted Grammy Award - Oh, hello everyone. - You know we talked You have a lot of and if you're comfortable, to go to a chorus or a and just sing a melody that comes out. It doesn't have to be words, you can be like &quot;da da da da da da da&quot; or you can be like, &quot;da da.&quot; And there's no rules, it can be anything. But the cool thing is might inspire something in Kyle or myself. - Yeah, of course. (humming) - Now that we have some melody it'll just be taking that we've talked about. Things that are important to you and things that are your life experiences, and then just developing - Thank you so much. - Thanks, Jude. - While Jude, Jason and Kyle put the finishing touches on the song, we asked Jude to come back to see us for one more big surprise. (audience claps) All right, so you've seen y'all throughout the hour He is back on the couch, y'all say hi to Jude and dad, Isaiah. - Hello. - And Jude's very proud mentor, Jason, give it up for him, y'all. (audience cheers) - Jimmy, when did you start And do you, do you write first or do you have to have the - I started when I was like six or seven. - Yeah? Nowhere near as he was. - Exactly. I started when I was young, but now it just depends Sometimes I have a lyric and Sometimes I just have a piano or a guitar, and sometimes I'll have a So it just depends on the day. I like that, too, I do So Jude, you love working with Jason but who is your favorite artist? Who would you love to like work with? - I would say CeCe Winans. She's, that's aimin' for the top man, she's incredible, right? I like it, gotta dream big. So you've come so far. Jason, in such a short time. So, and you always have a So do you have anything today? - I do. I'm so excited. First of all, I've had so Like it's been the highlight for me. - He really has. He says this when you're not here. - It's so cool. And you know, and I love my job and the favorite part about my job, but not only do I get to play for Kelly but I get to play for So it's really cool. There's people I grew up listening to and then Kelly brings 'em on the show and I get to play with them, which I love. But there's one person and I've been listening to and that's CeCe Winans, 'cause we talked about that in Colorado. - Yeah. to play for her but she's never asked me to play for her yet. - Oh. when we, like we talked in Colorado, I'm, you know, since I'm friends with CeCe and the people in her world and CeCe has invited you (excited gasp) and you're gonna play - Whoa! - Yes! - [Jason] I am, too. - I would love to play with her. - And I'm so jealous. I wanna hear, I mean, I'm watching it and thinking &quot;I (laughs) But you be thinking about 'cause I know you love Believe for it, and whatever song you think we're gonna, we're gonna get in touch with her. - I appreciate it so much Mr. Jason. - Well, thank you. You deserve it. - Okay, oh my gosh. I'm gonna lose it, okay.