- It's a wonderful moment who got a brand new baby boy. (regal instrumental music) - There is blood in their veins that has been coursing through royal veins since before 1066. - Can you get radio - [Voiceover] There aren't who are voted as - Time hasn't changed him, age certainly changed him, and, in fact, if anything else, he's probably become, a grumpy old man. (regal instrumental music) - Charles grew up always He'd been sent away which he hated. He was lonely, he was bulled. - Prince Charles gave quite and we never heard - I'm very well informed, - I think, literally, it from this boy with jug ears into, sort of, a rather - [Voiceover] He had quite a where he couldn't and suddenly this came into his life. - When asked whether Diana she immediately and he said, &quot;Whatever love is.&quot; - [Voiceover] Today's dedicates its first about the prince's alleged (crowd cheering) - Prince Harry is And he's probably member of the royal family because people warm to him. - I don't believe as private life anymore. I'm not gonna sit here, when everyone and the internet - People now regard them as They're not. They think of themselves (dramatic music) (tranquil music) - [Voiceover] Prince Philip and patriarch of the princes. Known as a no-nonsense and he occasionally oversteps the (beep) (dramatic music) His rise from a titled, but to become the greatest supporter of the longest reigning is the stuff of story books. But, Prince Philip's - He was born famously on and he was evacuated on board a British destroyer. - Through the 1920s, Prince with his parents, in Paris. Then, at the end of the 1920s, his parents split up. His mother had a breakdown, ended up in an asylum His father floated down where he ended up with a - [Voiceover] Following which specialized in seamanship, Prince Philip left in 1939 as a cadet. - He was astonishingly He's always maintained and he looked, what he was, a young Greek god. - So, he wasn't like the Princess Elizabeth - The first notable when King George VI went with their children, to see the sailors and Prince Philip, because was charged with - She met Prince as he then was in 1939, when he was a at Dartmouth Naval College. She'd met him before but this was the occasion when, by her own account, the spark was struck. - Very dashing and I mean, quite unusually, she actually thought this as a 13-year-old could think, And never really for any other man ever since. - [Voiceover] After completing at Royal Naval he joined the battleship as a midshipman during the - [Voiceover] From that moment Princess Elizabeth kept a on her desk throughout the war. - [Voiceover] Prince Philip joining the battleship in January 1941. After his promotion he was appointed to the (gun firing) based at Rosyth for Further promotions appointed second in at the unusually (guns firing) HMS Wallace took part of the with the landings on - [Voiceover] Prince quite controlling, and I don't think ever met a man like She was use to getting up and people being very and suddenly someone comes along and tells her what to do, and drives to fast and I think he was just so male. She was just so incredibly - And there wasn't there were various English dukes who were rather dim and even more dim, or inappropriate because they'd fought for And Prince Philip had of having fought on our and therefore was okay. (dramatic music) - [Voiceover] With news for the royal wedding, of the royal family, Lieutenant Philip Mountbatten. - People at court weren't Princess Elizabeth was She was beautiful. She was well brought up. She knew how to behave. Nobody was quite sure Who was he? Where were his parents? (ubeat music) - He always said to me that he was essentially I don't know what he was. He certainly, he is filled with Greek, any Greek blood in him at all. - The general Elizabeth and Philip's marriage was a fairy tale made in Heaven. Hundreds of thousands outside the palace gates because to cap off what had a dreadful decade. (dramatic music) - [Voiceover] Homage and with glowing pageantry, royal occasion since - The royal wedding new Elizabethan Age. The country was in It was very austere, and suddenly there's because Princess Elizabeth and this handsome naval officer were going to carry the country out of the doldrums of war, and present them But the feeling was very it was like a fairy tale. (dramatic music) - [Voiceover] Before long, were answered, as onto came the bride and bridegroom. - The time of the wedding and Prince Philip, his simply because they were Germans living in Germany one of whom was the denouncification process. So, they had to be careful. - I think the British regarded the marriage to the future queen as a welcome blessed relief from a time of and awfulness and there paradoxically, than had been during - [Voiceover] And the her ration coupons for her wedding dress. - You've got this this dashing naval officer marrying the girl next door who was everybody's sweetheart, who was, then, to be our queen. It's strange, that now he's cast as a cantankerous old etcetera, etcetera. When he first sprung he was regarded as - There were a lot of and courtiers, in particular, who weren't sure - [Voiceover] Prince in the Royal Navy continued when he was appointed - Philip insisted, that he should pursue She wanted him, very The royal family agreed, and so he actually where the British a large contingent He was given his own ship. She went out there, but as the captain's wife, and for the first, and she drove her own car. She went to hairdressing salons. She met friends in She had something and it had been that that could continue (gentle music) - It was obvious that she She had no restrictions. She could move about It was a (indistinct I think, officially, but, in private life, I think Philip ran the show, He seemed to boss her around and I shouldn't say this, but I've heard him swear at her. (gentle music) (ominous music) - The king's unexpected death changed everything, but for Philip, too. (ominous music) - As a couple, they'd in Malta where the Duke of as an officer in the Royal Navy, and their first was brought to an abrupt halt when they heard news Where in Kenya, of course, who broke the news to and understandably, People were bowing to her, and she was the new queen, and for both of them, it what had been as as possible for a royal couple. - Prince Phlip is a military If he hadn't married the queen, he would have been a highly probably would have reached - [Voiceover] Suddenly, the and I think for the that was quite - He had the potential of having a very good naval He served with distinction first in the Meditteranean. The untimely death of the meant that Philip had and be there just two - And, as anyone who would completely understand he likes to earn He did not like the idea of suddenly being appointed admiral of the and marshal of the without having done - When Prince Philip voyage on Britannia, in the marriage, and &quot;Oh, is there trouble - There have always been rumors about Prince Philip and girls. I remember Prince &quot;If I'd fathered &quot;as I was suppose &quot;I wouldn't have had - [Voiceover] The thing about is they're very, I mean, she took on - I went to the theater and sat in the and the interval came, and I with the Duke of Edinburgh, and he looked across towards the queen, it and she was surrounded by people meeting her and bowing and he leaned against the wall, and he was holding a drink, and he caught her eye, and across the crowded room, as she smiled at him, he merely lifted his - I must confess, My Lord Mayor, that it came as a to realize that we had (people laughing) Neither of us are much and the years have - He always said was to make it possible - One of the ways is to run all of the He's been extremely energetic at Windsor and Sandringham, Balmoral and so forth. - [Voiceover] The queen to walk at the pace of the so that nobody in the - So, there is the Duke going forward, trying to do that, and there's the walking along. - The queen is but Prince Philip is the He's the head of the family, so people have to answer to him. - We have the good fortune to grow up in happy We have been fortunate (light-hearted music) - [Voiceover] Prince an odd upbringing He didn't have any as far as parenting This later came to be when it came to bringing and the other royal children. - The Duke of Endinburgh He didn't understand. He had a very difficult They didn't speak to one another as normal father and son. - If he's your father, it must be quite difficult. There's no doubt his Prince William, his grandsons, and caring which is you get with his own sons. - Maybe he always slightly exasperating, that he wasn't able of his marriage was at least as as his daughter-in-law's. - I think the queen, herself, will be the first to isn't somebody who He's got an opinion and he doesn't - That's just his style, because he doesn't and he doesn't suffer fools, and he likes having He likes having - I've always found I've met him a I found him quite sympathetic and extremely erudite He's very interested in - I mean, can you get (crowd laughing) - He's very funny. Very outspoken, says - If you're Prince somehow, to break the ice, and for 60 years, receiving lines, shaking hands and, as he's said to me himself, trying to make people laugh. And he does that And just once in a while, it goes awry. - Outside the railway station, he met somebody, and he said, &quot;Where are you from?&quot;, and he said, &quot;Swansea, sir.&quot; And Prince Philip said, and the headline in the local newspaper was, &quot;Prince Philip and - He suggested to a chef that it was no wonder because he was certainly and this man was enormous, and wasn't offended at all, - Well, I think gets a bit of a raw deal He's seen as this that makes comments - This scheme is not a cure, it's a preventative. Once you've got a you've got a soccer hooligan, and somebody else try and cure him of that. The purpose of the to try to catch are moderately civilized - From the Duke of he'll suggest that what other people think, and the slitty-eyed comment, or even to the aborigines, &quot;Do you still throw might be a question others - I'm frequently accused that have no concern, I'm always told I (audience laughs) And unlike, not brother-in-law, but another chap I mean, (audience laughs) I don't even get onto (audience laughing) And the fact, to use a currently I must not be controversial. - It's terribly to latch on to an I think he's been - I've discussed Prince Philip's and he finds it quite depressing that they are constantly as he says, he sighs sometimes when he goes on a foreign trip to find there will because he knows all is another gaffe. - And I think most of us, for those of you who have who are trying to do your and tolerable for the locals. - He's a straight-forward, military officer that He suffers from foot-in-mouth and makes comments that, - Totally useless for a to wring their and to point out the or destruction of the if no one is willing or - [Voiceover] But, he comes from a different age. - He's just a man who says what he thinks, and sometimes people - Impassioned speeches effluent under the bridge, unless it is followed by Time is fast running out, and it remains to be seen whether those in can shoulder their in time and act quickly enough to relieve a more serious every day. (applause) - I think the reality that time hasn't changed him, age certainly and, in fact, if anything else, he's probably become, as a grumpy old man. - [Voiceover] Despite Prince Philip is still to support the queen, and his youthful to bridge an age gap - [Voiceover] So, the eye-den-tu-kit young are they enthusiastic, are they inquiring-- - They're some of all. I don't even want to very dangerous. - [Voiceover] There's about less willing to - There's a great generalizing about young people because you can find somebody who's the exception, but a whole group of I think what happens is that when a group of young people like binge drinkers appear, everyone's, &quot;Oh, my God, the &quot;they've all become Well, they haven't, who were mods and rockers, you're probably one yourself. I mean people go through-- - [Voiceover] Do (laughing) - Well, you know, People become quite - What's very interesting and the Duke of Edinburgh is they are very What you see is what you get. They're not performers. - And for the queen that she's surrounded and perhaps a lot of yes men, actually having to tell her what he is probably a refreshing change. - [Voiceover] Prince on his family and on half - It's been a challenge for us, but by trial and experience, a sensible division of labor and a good balance and joint interests. Of course, after 50 I find there's a great (audience laughing) The trouble is that no too However, I think that the is that tolerance is the of any happy marriage. It may not be quite so important when things are going well, but it is absolutely vital - There's been documented between the queen I think he once suggested that she wasn't driving well and he said that she should I think there's been that you would of marriage in any couple. - All to often, I has had to listen (audience laughing) He is someone who doesn't but he has, quite and stay all these years. - Contrary to an awful lot the monarchy appears as it has ever been, an awful lot to do I think, without him, maybe the institution might (dramatic music) (crowd cheering) - [Voiceover] The Prince to the throne, the first even though he will the eldest princes - If the queen lives Prince Charles won't until he's 77. - [Voiceover] An and the nation - [Voiceover] Prince Charles on the 14th of November 1948. - He was take away from her because she developed measles, after giving birth to Charles, and in that crucial between mother and child, they didn't have that. - [Voiceover] Following to the throne in heir apparent and - He was, then, very by nannies, and the who, frankly, terrified her. She was called Helen Lightbody, and she was a dragon, and the queen going into the nursery. So, that was another away from Charles. So, Charles grew much more closely the Queen Mother, than - She was, quite simply, the most magical grandmother you and I was utterly (solemn music) - [Voiceover] Consigned he became more introspective, welcoming his mother rather than a hug. - When the queen came and got of the train and her son, who's came up to her, or put her arms around him. She shook his hand. What does that say? That says, &quot;Where's my mummy?&quot; (solemn music) - Charles grew up always always wanting his and never quite The Duke of Edinburgh He didn't understand. He didn't think It was always a stiff upper lip, and manage your emotions, and Charles didn't do that. - [Voiceover] In became the first Prince after the abdication to marry Wallace Simpson. - [Voiceover] Now Jeff Shirley as Prince Charles the school's most - He'd been sent away which he hated. He was lonely, he - [Voiceover] He would have like Eton where he would and close to his - [Voiceover] He had miles away from everything - But, the general the press, on a know where Gordonstoun was, and probably in their clamber over in order to find this place. - If you're going to sent like Prince Charles, it's whereas, for Prince absolutely loved every the way that the system and he loved the (solemn music) - Charles grew up a who turned into an insecure man. He doesn't have a and Lord Mauntbatten, who recognized that Charles was He was not a happy child, and Mauntbatten took and started to prepare and to give him some confidence, and to make him feel valued. (solemn music) - Prince Charles gave quite and we had never heard and he showed a very engaging, and I think it literally from this, rather, sort with jug ears with his trying to imitate his father, into a sort of, rather, character of his own. - I do believe I have it. I have a bite. I'm letting out a little Yes, taking up the string. Taking up the string. This is most exciting, most exciting ladies I've never seen anything I think got quite It's very, very - [Voiceover] Charles comes with the name, style, of Prince of Wales The sword for his earldom. (choir singing) - [Voiceover] The was a state occasion at Caernarfon Castle on - [Prince Charles] I do become your liege and of earthly worship, and faith and truth to live and die against - [Voiceover] The acts and fealty are complete. - [Voiceover] Despite being and anarchist elements Charles spent many trying to win over his critics. - [Voiceover] I believe in the streets not by group of anarchists who said, &quot;The rich &quot;should give away all How do you react to - You're very well informed, How do I react to Well, I suppose I try and look upon it with a certain I mean, I think it's say, &quot;You're wrong, therefore, &quot;I don't want to listen to you.&quot; I try understand what and why they're getting at it. (upbeat music) - [Voiceover] During the became known as a playboy for his liaisons with and his easy charm with (upbeat music) - [Voiceover] Prince as a bit of an action man, of beautiful girlfriends. And he had quite a long where he couldn't seem to attracting the wrong Was he a playboy prince? Was he not able Was he not able to connect? (upbeat music) - There was always I suppose inevitably, in - And every time Prince the press screamed, &quot;He's - Because everybody Princess of Wales, and if he chose to marry one - [Voiceover] The obsession became a frenzy when named Diana Spencer came - I'm old enough to remember and going one where Prince Charles - Suddenly, this came into this life, his PR enormously. - Everybody loved Diana when When she went up to the queen and the Duke many members of the plus friends, and was absolutely magic. - Although she had some royal she wasn't the usual that I remember Prince Charles - That marriage came It came about His grandmother, and her grandmother, Lady and they agreed that would have to be a virgin, and Lady Fermoy assured that Diana was a virgin, &quot;Then that's the one.&quot; - The problem for Diana Spencer and what she really was a time warp. We all like the idea being like everybody else, but if they get too then what's special about them? By the 1970s, when Diana Spencer most people couldn't care less, whether the bride was a virgin or not, but when it came to we still expected this She was a virgin. This made her a very - [Voiceover] Following the Prince of Wales on the 29th of July, 1981, in Saint Paul's Cathedral, and Diana became The Princess of Wales. - Both the queen and were delighted, I of Diana marrying Prince She was a beautiful, innocent young high hopes for the relationship. - I thought the engagement When asked whether Diana she immediately and he said, &quot;Whatever love is.&quot; - I'm amazed that to take me on. (Diana laughs) - [Voiceover] Diana, - Of course. - Whatever in love means. - It must have when he said that because what would if we'd said on the day of that whatever love is. (solemn music) He was sending a - But poor Camilla's problem was sort of catch 22, When she met Prince Charles, she fell in love, they but that, sort of, as a future queen. - [Voiceover] Prince Charles had two sons, Prince William, born on the 21st June 1982, and Prince Harry, born on the 15th The cracks in the relationship began to appear - She was troubled At the time, Charles didn't She lived in kind She read Barbara and I suspect that royal life would out of a romantic novel, and she had no support system, no family of around her. - That's what went wrong more Nobody tells you One of the astonishing successes that Prince Philip has been is that nobody told him either, he instinctively Other interlopers aren't told, and I think that was ultimately the great tragedy - Charles simply didn't He didn't know how to help. He thought that He gave up the said she didn't like, got rid of staff did everything that to make her happy. He couldn't make her happy, nothing could make her happy. She feed herself, emotionally, on the adoration of strangers. And this caused a huge because, rather than she out-shown him. He would make speeches, and the press and they talked about or her clothes, and be pregnant again? Charles found that - The queen was by what was happening of Charles and Diana but particularly to the and their ability to be whom she loved dearly but also who represented the - The queen is very She lives in the world She's not remote in and she knew that if that the marriage really - Nobody sees the queen but Diana use to wait until the queen's last had left, and then she'd and she'd just cry, and &quot;and I hate my mother. &quot;I hate my sister, And the queen, not of moral confrontation, how to handle Diana. - It would be a great blamed Diana for If anything, I believe, that she and her put more of the blame and Prince Charles, of course, was already committed, - [Voiceover] The Prince of seen together in - Charles and Diana and Camilla and Fergie and how the royals go on at bedtime, and that creates problems. - When he was interviewed and asked whether he'd he, again, told the truth, &quot;Yes, but only when the marriage &quot;had irretrievably broken down.&quot; And for some strange reason, the great British public chooses not to believe him, but to believe Diana's was always there, that of it ever working. - I've come to the conclusion that really it would have been far easier to have two wives, (audience laughs) to have covered both (audience laughs) That time everybody and, &quot;Hope everything &quot;How lucky you are to be But, my goodness, I was and we had many, many-- It's amazing what ladies do (audience laughs) - It quickly went wrong. - The first the marriage had gone wrong was a palace maid, her went to their room at Balmoral and every single thing It was wrecked, and Charles had slept on his I mean, it was, from that I mean all couples have rows, but this one never ended. - Well before the actual things were I can remember a very talking to me about it a bit, and it wasn't until and the Princess got that she wanted that the whole thing exploded. - I wrote a book Charles Victim or Villain, that caused a huge fuss. I set out to discover whether he had never stopped and had used Diana The conclusion I came were no villains at all. They were all victims. It was not Charles' fault He was a needy individual. She was a desperately and they were unable - I wish to inform the at this moment, issuing It reads as follows, &quot;It is announced from &quot;that, with regret, the &quot;have decided to separate. &quot;The Royal Highnesses &quot;and their constituntional &quot;This decision has &quot;and they will both continue &quot;in the upbringing - [Voiceover] Diana continued and bring up William and Harry, but her lifestyle and was beginning to destabilize, but also the monarchy. - We knew she was son of Mohammed Fayed and I think a lot that was a very - She went with the boys in the South of France. Diana was photographed The boys found that There was a lot of publicity. They went back to England, and flew up to Scotland and they started (solemn music) - I was asleep in bed and one of my &quot;there's been a &quot;Dodi Fayed is &quot;the princess is dead, too.&quot; (solemn music) So, I obviously, went straight to the studio and then was really on television, I have to say, for the next week, really. - [Voiceover] At first to keep the princess had stopped beating by the time she was admitted to hospital. The surgeons fought to restart her heart. At 3 o'clock this they admitted that Diana, Princess - It was Charles' burden to break the news had died, to William and Harry, which, I think, must have been enormously difficult. - The week after Diana from a media point of view. The queen was up at Balmoral. She happened to have Prince Charles, Prince What she was doing to her grandchildren to come down to London huge ordeal of their global funeral. - The one thing that Diana was giving those and security in - The people who loved She would often take William to have their tea, and and things like that, but if they had it upstairs, she would bring both afterwards, to say thank you. - [Voiceover] Camilla Parker relationship with from being at the center to gradually increasing her after Diana's death. - She had grandmother of a previous Prince of Wales. When they first met, she &quot;My grandmother slept with your And what young man is (crowd cheering) (regal instrumental music) - [Voiceover] Prince Charles were married on the - [Voiceover] He was always because there was always another intense but with Camilla, she having been his the love of his life - [Voiceover] Charles has done He's never had any kind of from his parents. - [Voiceover] The queen, I Charles is a bit too grand the way in which he intervenes, talking to government ministers. his espousing of quite He's dangerous for the monarchy. - [Voiceover] Prince Charles bridging the divide stiff upper lip view of manhood and his own more As he nears his 70s, Prince his desire to assert - It's also extremely that I share a birthday (indistinct speech) (audience laughs) - He does really care about For instance, the that's why they're always - When I was a never any doubt that he Wasn't always easy dealing but subsequently, I the fact that we have who is not afraid, - The queen can't do that. Her opinions on anything have very, very neuteral. - Over the past century, we have made it The effluence we pour are a threat to its - [Voiceover] Prince Charles ready to make his mark - Whether he will still be I rather doubt. I think he knows that is to pursue that - [Voiceover] Due to the length Prince Charles is sense of anticipation which at the dawn of the That honor will likely fall (gentle music) Prince William is the elder and the late Diana On the 29th of April 2011, following his marriage the title, the Duke of on him by the queen. (slow string music) Prince William on the 21st of June 1982 Paddington, London. - Prince Charles came out I remember climbing and going up and and saying, &quot;Congratulations.&quot; - [Voiceover] Can you tell - She's very well, thank you. - [Voiceover] And your son? - He's in excellent form, Looking a bit more (crowd cheering) - Who wants it which way first? This side or that side? (playful music) - [Voiceover] After attending the duke became a pupil at from the 15th of January 1987 until the 5th of July 1990. From a very early age, the challenges that (gentle music) - Kid said to &quot;is it true that you and William, sort of, just &quot;Don't you mean Granny?&quot; - I remember one in fact, he's trying to and his nanny's grabbed him, and she's scolding him, and William's face and I remember what He run to his mother, and she soothed him. - William and Harry tricky household. They absolutely Their mother And so did their father. - Prince Charles understanding, caring father of whom the boys - If Prince Charles to Princess Diana the characters of his and would require of attitudes toward the I think that was certainly that he raised, as a father, She was wanting the children and she got that. She would take She would take to see homeless people, and to try and wake them up to the fact that they but they've got to appreciate (screaming) - [Voiceover] The one thing forevermore, was real love and security. - She wanted them to She wanted them to Prince William looks in many respects, is more Windsor than Spencer. (upbeat music) - [Voiceover] From the duke attended Ludgrove for five years, until (upbeat music) Over time, Prince William began to show more of his mother's From July 1995, William to study geography, biology, For the young prince, it He'd grown use to being in the media spotlight, but now they were for all the wrong reasons. - The royal family has because behind palace gates, with normal problems In fact, they're under than the rest of us because they're moves are and if there's problems the cameras are And that very much with Prince Charles and Diana. - I asked Prince Philip, and &quot;We are a family. &quot;These things And they cope with and their reaction parents of their (solemn music) - The princess died after the terrible (solemn music) - Charles went, in the and told them the news. Who knows what went It must have been utterly, (solemn music) The public pressure for the was such that she and the boys came outside the (solemn music) and looked at all the which must have been - [Voiceover] Prince William, he was in the subsequent because his moving gestures when he went to shake thanking them for It was so brave - Thank you so much. - [Voiceover] He had sort of about him to rise above (solemn music) - [Voiceover] Prince William when Diana, Princess of Wales was killed in a on the 31st of August 1997. (horses' hooves clomping) Together with Prince Harry, he walked behind their mother's creating one of the of the 20th century. - Whenever I see an behind Princess Diana's coffin, and I think when any I imagine everybody feels and devastated at the - There was a time wasn't terrible keen to because he thought had turned into a media shenanigans but the night before, &quot;I think when you're older, &quot;you'd regret it, &quot;in your mother's procession, &quot;and I will walk with you.&quot; And that's an immensely I think he got it and there's a moment, if you that they're passing and they think the and Prince Philip and says, &quot;How's it going?&quot; That's what you need on an occasion of - I was outside and it was just thousands of people were there, and you could just of the hooves of the horses and all you could hear and I mean, not weeping, - Never being able to again in your life, however, for many, including me, it is now really just a word, hollow and evoking - [Voiceover] As soon they went to High Grove Nobody watched television, nobody read any newspapers. They just did things with Dad. Suddenly, the world they loved their father, but there was that maybe he wasn't but he always was a good father. - [Voiceover] This summer's is the first at the family's cameramen getting a rare glimpse at such close quarters. Prince Charles and outside the house to see in a car lent to even royalty must use L-plates. - [Voiceover] His such as driving a car seem slightly awkward, as though he still regarded for their hounding - The photo corps is arranged on the are then left alone to enjoy - [Voiceover] Whilst in the grandeur of Kate's childhood home in the village of - [Voiceover] A red rose after a day in which of the Scottish people. The once media shy prince found himself thrust as never before. - The things you It's really hard. - &quot;The things you have to appearing at a new dance (crowd cheering) Earlier, in Glasgow, was greeted like a pop star, as he arrived at most deprived housing estates. - [Voiceover] Having grow being followed, Prince to spend his student years and without the - [Voiceover] Royal by birth he charmed these pensioners, telling them he was looking (speaking softly) - Yeah, it's very nice, community feel about it. - [Voiceover] After a gap year, in which he visited and African countries, to study at Saint Andrews (upbeat music) The ancient town on the east coast of Scotland, seemed a perfect choice, small, remote, and with a close-knit It also lay claim to match making university. (upbeat music) (crowd cheering) - [Voiceover] This small had never seen anything like it. Prince William greeted as he arrived with his father. Even before he attended of his art history course, the studen prince (upbeat music) - Before coming Prince William said he like an ordinary student, but with half the to see him, that seems for this rising star - Very nice to meet you. Thank you very much. (upbeat music) - There was an agreement, between the palace that they would leave him alone to study without from paparazzi photographers. - When we did this agreement, I never thought it would stick because I know and they can't help themselves. But, I suspect, that of Diana in their minds, and of her tragic end, and of the way that she by the paparazzi, and I don't think wanted another - [Voiceover] This the palace and the would have the chance to as just another student, albeit a very famous one. (upbeat music) - In the ensuing years, he He grew up, he went He got good academic results, and he found a nice, - [Voiceover] William living at Saint Salvatore's known locally as Sally's, and it was here, that would finally meet. For their second William and Kate shared a house on one of Saint Andrews' renting a top floor apartment It was here that their but it would be before the relationship when the couple were on a skiing holiday - [Voiceover] This was Prince enjoying the slopes at the Prince of Wales, in full view of In return, the paparazzi were expected to withdraw, leaving the royals to enjoy the rest of their That's why Prince William and Palace officials furious about today's Ironically, this when Prince William increasingly relaxed happy to joke with many of whom are known - [Voiceover] (indistinct - I might have done Arthur, yes. (photographers laughing) - [Voiceover] What do you think? - Disappointed, but we'll so I'm quite happy about that. - [Voiceover] Arthur royal photographer, Prince William an unwilling victim. - [Voiceover] Today's dedicates its first five pages to a story about the with a fellow student. The girl, said to first serious girlfriend, She is flatmate of the There wasn't to be because it was a picture This was a couple, and &quot;Will Gets His was the headline, and he had, but truth was he'd had (applause) - [Voiceover] William Wales. (applause) - Kate's life was going She was a sort of normal girl who went to Malborough College. We knew, even then, that one of the most photographed - [Voiceover] Yeah, quick, - An interview, (soft talking) (solemn music) - They had a few but they have been for a very long time, which is in contrast to what Charles had to put up with in terms of the (solemn music) - [Voiceover] Prince Kate Middleton have split up. ITV News can reveal it and although they've this time it is final. (solemn music) - At the time, I wasn't but, actually, it made You know, you find out (solemn music) I really valued that time, although I didn't think (laughing) - I'm sure. - [Voiceover] Wemberly on what would have been William and Harry tribute concert Backstage the princes with hip hop royalty and the but rumors were eagerly anticipated reunion. - There was a lot of speculation about whether Kate and William were back together as an item, and the day before the concert, I asked William whether - (stammers) I have a lot - You can clearly - Wow, that is so shocking. - I've got lots so everyone's gonna and it's gonna be a - That's very well (laughing) - [Voiceover] Rather than the of Prince Charles and Diana, Prince William enjoyed relationship with before marrying her on (crowd cheering) (upbeat music) - There she was in flashing Diana's enjoying every minute of it. Although there it was a very happy and it was the happiest I'd - First time since 1660 a major member of who's in line to the throne, is marrying a commoner. - Prince William is now to a young lady who suitable in every way. I mean, this is It's a fairy story - There's less sense of the What matters, I capable of becoming queen. L-O-V-E L-O-V-E - [Voiceover] There training at Sandhurst. This was the prince The 44 week course is William obviously wasn't - [Voiceover] The Duke the Royal Military as an officer cadet as an army officer at Sandhurst in December 2006, joining the Household Cavalry, Blues and Royals, as (upbeat band music) - Unlike so many who are at odds with their you have a couple of young men who are clearly devoted, but to their grandmother. - [Voiceover] There's and Prince William have - [Voiceover] William, we know, When he was at Eton, right beside Windsor go and see his grandmother, She would introduce him - [Voiceover] Prince as a RAF search and rescue graduating as a fully in September 2010. (bell ringing) - Hear ye, Hear ye, Hear ye, On this day, the 22nd of July the year 2013, we welcome with humble duty, a future king, the first born of the Duke and Duchess the third in line to the throne. (upbeat music) - [Voiceover] Two years the Duke and were delighted to announce the George Alexander Louis, on the 22nd of July 2013. Their second child, was born on the 2nd of May 2015. Both children followed by being born at Saint (upbeat music) - He's a very loving He adores his and new daughter, Charlotte. There's no doubt that of Kate has been great. (gentle music) (regal instrumental music) - I think he's divine, actually. - Oh, yes, smiles. - He's so happy, (crowd cheering) - [Voiceover] There is no has the common touch. Ever since he was born on the 15th of September 1984, Harry has been known and ability to live After attending Prince Harry became a pupil and then joined his at Ludgrove School in Berkshire. (engergetic music) - [Voiceover] A guiding as Prince Harry, in formal helps inspect a guard of honor, then the transformation and up the double for a taste - Prince Harry, I think, and honestly open person that is a member at this moment in time. When he meets people, not because he's a but because of who (laughing) (speaking softly) - [Voiceover] It was his first first chance to learn there when your mother is of the light dragoons. While he was off having fun, the princess was her son is fascinated Prince Harry joining in, too young, yet, - [Voiceover] Prince Harry William, to Eton College. - He's a far more than people take him for. He may not be accomplished, but this is a He's been to the South Pole. - [Voiceover] Eton's most to the classroom today, but Prince Harry may to concentrate on his studies. His weekend was spent coming An 18th birthday as the protector of and as a royal figure It was no coincidence first solo engagement to Great Ormond Princess Diana was president until her death just before Five years on, he's the charitable work she started. Harry's decision in his mother's work by the Prince of Wales, that his youngest son's seem to be behind him. - He certainly can a playboy prince I think he's more He's had his playboy moments. I've had run-ins with to tick me off over stories. - You sort of have the the sensitive little boy, the fighting man, and the idiot. (crowd cheering) And I think people love him - He's probably the most popular member of the royal family You wouldn't think it, or before making a public but actually that adds and adds to the charm. - Harry has his of defning what a and copying his mother, identity problem next seems to be very shrewd. - I think it's being the second son really have a defined role. You're just the - Get this on camera. (William yells) - [Harry] You forgot - Oh my God, that's - You can use, borrow - The attention is on the eldest child, I mean, Diana made a not to allow that to happen, but of course, it did. - I'm not just doing it I always clean them. I played yesterday, I (William laughs) to do it for you. (laughing) (whimsical music) (sports announcer - [Voiceover] Prince Harry, Prince Harry shoots - [Voiceover] After he took a gap year. It was during this highlighted the plight Prince Harry went on to with Prince Seeiso of Lesotho, in memory of their mothers. Like all royal to pursue a military the Royal Military Academy Harry was commissioned as a second lieutenant Blues and Royals. (helicopter blades whirling) - We're very lucky so many families, I for instance you have in the armed forces or one As a parent, you I think if you're you think you're getting It's not the same, but I, for everybody left behind, it's ghastly. (slow string music) - [Voiceover] Despite for his safety, Prince during two tours of Afghanistan, finishing his second assignment as an Apache helicopter - It wasn't done in the (slow instrumental music) (gun fires) I was always hoping and I got here on Christmas eve, and going from bullet magnet to anti-bullet magnet, mostly guys were pretty 'cause nothing was few days that I was here, but things are (gun firing) - [Voiceover] Do and you will kill the enemy? - Yeah, so a lot of people have. We fire when we have to. Take a life to save a life, but the main thing for us is, the tricky escorts, We come straight puts off any possibility because they look &quot;Right, that's an unfair fight. &quot;We're not going - Harry became important by being this big character by being brave boy. (slow instrumental music) - This is my bed, I when I'm done here, that's it, made. (laughs) (slow instrumental music) - [Voiceover] Oh there it is. (slow instrumental music) - Harry is a party creature. He always will be, so obviously he's He has walked out of night clubs and smashed photographers. - [Voiceover] Drunken have only made more like one of us. But is he really more clown (upbeat music) - Every misdemeanor has leaked out to the press because we all want to and then, of course, at Vegas, which was really, really wild. - It was probably of me probably and not enough prince. I don't really want to get into details of what I think of At the end of the day, I probably let myself down. I let my family down. I let other people down, I was in a private area, and there should of private privacy - He's in no hurry He doesn't have to, because William and and that whole situation in terms of the (crowd laughing) I'm sure that he would but he's equally that role will be because she every second of the day. - Chelsea and Cressida and they both, probably, but neither of them The more family and children that William and Kate have, the more people are - I can't wait to get back It's gonna be ridiculous after my hips are bruised, because of the - So, I don't see any respite I think people are because he's still - [Voiceover] Prince Harry before leaving the armed - In a statement issued Prince Harry emphasizes it has been to move - But when I've spoken to him, &quot;I'm 30, I've reached my &quot;who joined the army &quot;It's probably time for me - [Voiceover] He has often forged in the services, such He was badly on the same tour of Afghanistan. - He's done really All the charities, as the guys that have been injured. - We don't want pity, but to grow and to - [Voiceover] You've spent a I get a sense that you're with them, and that a little humble, - No, completely, I love and I like to think what they're going - [Voiceover] Do - I miss parts of it, but that's another be involved with these guys for the rest of my life because that military that dark sense of humor - [Voiceover] Prince Harry but he is more more likely to wear and more likely to be taken Prince Harry's life may but he is unlikely to ever For over 60 years, over Britain and Elizabeth II is the matriarch As wife, mother, grandmother and now great-grandmother she has provided a sense of duty that binds the - The Duke of Edinburgh &quot;You know, when the &quot;and went on tours &quot;millions, millions &quot;in the streets and cheered, &quot;and if the queen had taken &quot;it would have been corrosive. &quot;She knew the attention, &quot;was not for her, &quot;it was for the position - When she became queen, there was still a of people who believed that It was a very The establishment Royalty did not give interviews. - [Voiceover] Sometimes and distance which was - Ah, I think I would twist that slightly perhaps, that's the think we want to be, rather than, that we would choose to be. - [Voiceover] The queen's is that public duty must always come before personal pleasure. - [Voiceover] I don't think called The Queen because she's She doesn't read about herself. She is not preoccupied She doesn't belong to the me, me, me generation. She isn't touchy feely She is descreet. She does her duty. - There are two big influences, one was the example with her uncle, Edward VIII, king for such a short That would have instilled in her the idea that you from what is your duty. What her father had She was even more taken than her father had been. - [Voiceover] The ability is what separates a - You've seen what in Australia and New Zealand. I, for one, think that I think it's relevant probably than we really, either, want to, or realized. - [Voiceover] Four generations Prince Phlip, Prince Charles, Prince William, Prince Harry, and Prince George. - He's a character. He clearly is winning the It's difficult to know what Will there even be a monarchy? Who knows, I mean, there probably will be. - [Voiceover] As the elder hands over to the they can be satisfied that have upheld the essence to unite the people. (dramatic music) (tranquil music)