Translator: Hoa Pham Learning a language can feel something out of this world for the vast majority of us. This isn't a belief, however, just held by It's also shared further afield, say, Let's be honest: when it comes to learning languages we are the kind of people we're fluent in a multitude such as Geordie, Kiwi, Cockney, Don't get me wrong. I'm very, very proud but I wouldn't suggest After all, we don't need subtitles when we are watching Although I can see you two saying, &quot;I do.&quot; (Laughter) Yet, despite this, if you were or say, if you're feeling cross the Severn Estuary into Wales, there you would find that speaking another language Yet, there and further afield, many are still convinced of the fact this is a long, challenging, and dare I say, daunting task. In this room of 100 people, I'd guess that at least 15 other languages In fact, the last census of 2011 revealed that's 22%, one in four, almost - speak another language at home I myself, even as a Mancunian, and of those, And the question I get asked (Laughter) Well, the answer, for me I'm convinced learning languages, any language And I want to show you how. As a linguist, a polyglot, and a lecturer, I know what it entails And one of the biggest obstacles we're faced [with] And I genuinely believe In order to remember I came up with the nice (Laughter) which funnily enough, if you write it out it's one of the words for 'the' in German. Myth number one: learning a language I will never be able to quite like the language I was born with. Technically, you're not born All of us here could have ended up, We were simply surrounded generally from a very early age. There are people, however, who started to learn a language, much later on in life. And guess what? They're now completely fluent even perhaps more so Why is this? Because there is no cutoff date by which you have to have learned Think about how many people &quot;Ugh! My kids are doing French in school. But I can't, no way, it's impossible. I should've simply paid more attention Well, studies reveal that whilst children at picking up a new language it's actually us - you can just It's us, the adults, who are Why is this? Because we have We know how to learn already. Myth number two: I don't need to learn And as we hear, I was going to do in a cockney accent, I'll spare myself languages ... Well, besides the obvious benefits for example, financial benefits i.e., better pay, more job opportunities, and actually helping to stave off there are real hidden gems we can discover How about getting an upgrade as was recently the case with my uncle He asked me if I could send him over a few phrases and greetings that he could try out in the hotel. Turns up, caught over this suitcase, throws out a few sentences in Turkish, and bam!, he's given an upgrade (Laughter) You might not always get I can't promise you this. However, I can promise through another language, We all remember Jamie from Love Actually And in fact, almost one in ten Brits who was born overseas. Furthermore, the Guardian showing that people who are able to better adapt or are better equipped that they're better at multitasking This is definitely a much when all of us appeared I wonder how many people now will be glued to their phones, and how many are Myth number three: you have to be an expat and be in a place even to just get a grasp of the language. There's no harm in simply packing up and moving to a village but it's not actually necessary. Now the great unknown: my brother and I - he's actually my twin brother - my brother and I whilst being based decided to undertake the challenge We decided to undertake the challenge in order to show what you can do I'm not saying we all need to be going out there nor that it's actually possible to learn absolutely everything there is I can assure you, it isn't. Perfection isn't the goal here. The goal, however, is to get in a particular language, This means to the dismay of school teachers &quot;Take shortcuts.&quot; The best thing about these shortcuts is we can apply them to any language And furthermore, they're so simple, &quot;Why didn't I think of that?&quot; So let's take a look at these shortcuts. Number one: analyze the similarities, As speakers of English, we already know so much given the fact that our language itself, with the wealth from a multitude of different languages Doing this will help develop and also will help us to guess the meaning that we don't yet know. As you see in this slide, for example, we can see how closely related English is and even to languages that are, despite the fact that English is Shortcut number two: keep it simple. At first sight, you might think that doesn't have that much but by focusing on easy elements, because every language Some languages only have For example, you end up saying for 'I had,'I have had,' and 'I am' also can be In other cases, we have a case of advanced vocabulary that is derived from In this case, we have which has now gone on and lent itself to become 'besprechen' - to discuss, 'versprechen' and 'absprechen,' Shortcut number three: keep it relevant. Especially at the beginning we need to make sure Not everyone is learning German in order to discuss business Think about this. As speakers of English, we don't know every single word So why should we fret about remembering every single word We simply have to make it relevant When it comes to learning a language, And by time, I don't mean as some people still like to think. How long does it take to learn a language? How about if I were to tell you that 30 minutes per day Thirty minutes - these are Be ten in the morning, ten in the evening, on the way to work, out in the evening, meeting friends, We all have all these minutes Furthermore, by learning for we won't feel so overwhelmed And even better, learning for regular periods because chances are that if you're learning for by the time you next come to learn, you'll already have forgotten The goal therefore is to fit language learning and not the other way around. And by doing this, there's no reason you can't get by in your new language. These active forms of learning, with what I'd like to refer to Having breakfast: switch the radio on become acquainted The music will not only help you to the intonation, and to the rhythm but the words you'll hear because you know the songs, and you'll be able to thus expanding our vocabulary. Had a hard day? Treat yourself to a TV series and put subtitles on, in English, and then, others can join We all know how everyone this Scandinavian TV crime series some of which have been By doing this, this will get you off to a great start to go on and to actually There are three rules, I like to refer to them that each and everyone of us when going about learning a language. The first rule is - wait for it - the first rule is live the language, speak it, read it, write it, dream in it, sing it even; sing to yourself. My brother and I we decided to write songs in the language. Don't worry, I'm not about and I certainly won't be singing That said, you have to make it yours, So why not put your phone or computer Number two: make mistakes. Yes, you heard me correctly. Make as many as you want. Why? Because we learn by making mistakes. It's actually the only way As children, we're even But as adults, we are apprehensive Admitting from the beginning we don't know absolutely everything will not prevent us from learning it. Furthermore, it will actually give us So go forth and make The last rule, and this is the most important one, make it fun. Grammar rules aren't always fun. I mean, I love grammar, but I understand that not everyone not sure why, though. But remember, you can do in any other language, so make it fun. And actually, by making it fun, you're helping yourself stay motivated. And the more motivated you are, So go out and let The best thing as well is why not try and get people, Say, colleagues, friends, and turn it Actually, studies show that your chances of and they enhance your performance. Languages are often perceived We like to think of them and yet, we know so much about them because all human languages have of expressing ideas, even if we're not aware of it at first. By now delving into the unknown we will be able to master one of the most fulfilling, rewarding, human communication. And who could resist with these linguistic pearls? The first one would be, (French) Ayez Les dents longues, It literally means, however, (Laughter) Mine aren't that long. I'd like to wish you all in Italian (Italian) In bocca al lupo, but literally means (Laughter) And finally, as we say in Ukrainian, (Ukrainian) Skil'ky mov ty znayesh - (English) which means &quot;The more languages you know, Enjoy learning a new language. (Applause)