In the middle of a global pandemic, a ragtag and builders were brought together. They were given plans for a mysterious structure. With little information on what exactly they across the top of their plans. Spinlaunch. A space catapult. In this exclusive, behind the scenes documentary, company. Spinlaunch is attempting to subvert a problem equation. The rocket equation has been the tyrant engineers age. A simple equation that describes how much its destination. The tyranny of this equation, is that the itself. A compounding problem that makes rockets more Typical rockets are more than 90% percent Spinlaunch is trying to change that paradigm, to the payload on the ground, eliminating weight while greatly reducing the size and Their plan? To spin a small rocket in a centrifugal mass speed before releasing it. Punching through the thickest layers of our Gaining 72 kilometers of altitude off nothing its fairings and unveiling a substantially journey into orbit. You may question the numbers here, but this Project Harp, standing for high altitude research kilometers of altitude with a high powered They achieved a muzzle velocity nearly identical However, scaling a kinetic energy launch system spinlaunch's technology. Ofcourse, all of this is easier said than The challenge facing Spinlaunch's engineers This endeavor demands several new key enabling So in terms of key enabling technologies, That's David Wrenn, Spinlaunch's VP of I spoke with him on the Spinlaunch factory they are using for their tether. You know, in terms of its strength to weight any other material on Earth. And the amazing thing is that it's actually engineering tools and simulation methods exist a composite structure will do. And then we have structures and test rigs the components actually fail at the expected So just to give you a sense of the strength So this is made by taking carbon fiber tow it through a heated die with a resin bath. Basically the version gets impregnated into the heat to die. And you get these really nice, highly unique you know, spin launch. Right. And so as small as this cross-section is, an inch thick and only a few inches wide. This can do just under a quarter million pounds really, really impressive for what this is. Trying to convert to metric in my head. It's like, oh, yeah, that's a lot. Yeah. I think that's like a million newtons or something So and then if you look at, you know, this build really thick cross-sections of carbon You can see there's there's really great. Is this pultruded as well? So this is not opportunity to this is laid So this is essentially a subsection of the the tether on the suborbital system. Okay.So this is, this is. So this isn't this is not unique directional take this the same cross-section here and if you've just stacked up multiple protruded of total load capacity through this cross-section. So it's, it's impressively strong for what I mean, it's, it's heavier than you'd expect Yeah. Holding a carbon fiber brick. I don't think there's, I've never seen an been laid up. It's, it's rare to see carbon fiber this thick. Yeah. It really is rare, the final fully scaled likely going to be the single strongest tensile Let's do the math on that. Spinlaunch aims to yeet its aeroshell, containing 6, that's roughly 2 kilometers per second. With a radius of 45 meters, the tether will that velocity. At that rate the g loading on the tether will Meaning this aeroshell is going to exert a due to gravity. The aeroshell with the payload and rocket tonnes, so that means the tether, at the tip, metric tonnes, or 100 million kilograms. To put that into context, a fully loaded falcon this tether is going to need to support the This is going to require a hefty piece of of at least 0.23 meters squared. That explains the brick of carbon fiber we That brick could support about 4.1 million So the full scale tether will need to be 24.4 the tip. This equation tells us why carbon fiber is Because each section of the tether has to to weight ratio needs to be exceptional. If we calculate the tether area near the hub needs to increase in area by 2.5 times, at We would ofcourse need to add a safety factor dimensions by 50%. I have skimmed over this equation here, but of this system, and energy of getting to space on Brilliant to partner this video, and you That design is perfectly feasible and is reflected We even have the manufacturing skills necessary thanks to the wind industry. So, this is all well and good, but spinning possible in air. The aerodynamic heating would destroy it. So, to solve this issue. Spinlaunch created a massive vacuum chamber You know, there's a bunch of things at the for a lot of people, like even just building You know, people were telling us, you know, millions of dollars to build. And we ended up doing it. You know, we had this really, really kind And we ended up doing it for less than a couple Right. Which is unheard of. Was there, was there any specific kind of that, to to reduce the cost that much? Yes. So that if you compare our vacuum chamber traditionally see and say in the aerospace A lot of the really, really, large vacuum vacuum chambers out there. But there's, you know, quite a few of the for aerospace applications. And so they're achieving extremely high levels And so the cost is proportional to that. And it's kind of exponential. You know, they're achieving vacuums that are thor. And, you know, typically we're operating at Spinlaunch is breaking new ground with this Typical large volume vacuum chambers, like Facility in Sandusky, Ohio, are designed to [3] Those require an extremely low pressure vacuum, They even need specialized tools like lamps from the Sun and cryogenic cooling to simulate The people that built these facilities are from, and most thought they would never be their budget. But Spinlaunch had some things on their side. They didn't need that extreme of a vacuum, of space. Their goal is to minimize drag and the power heating that would destroy the tether, and like flutter. That means Spinlaunch could use cheaper materials need more expensive specialized processed where gasses within the metal in the form metal, are released into the vacuum. It also makes the process of drawing a vacuum Drawing a vacuum isn't as simple as just The more air you draw out, the harder it becomes. As you are not only working against a continually probability. [5] The first stage of drawing a vacuum is to is a viscous fluid, and the molecules within Here we can use traditional fluid flow pumps, That mechanically moves molecules out of the of the chamber forces air to fill the space Allowing more air to be pumped out. But, as gas is removed from the chamber the This is called the mean free path. The distance a molecule can travel without Now, pressure is really just molecules colliding, the pressure gradients that are needed to Meaning it takes longer and longer for equilibrium remove molecules lowers, as there are simply remove. At some point viscous flow stops entirely flow. Where the distance between collisions is actually vacuum chamber. Meaning, the molecules are statistically more nothing forcing them towards the exit. At this stage it is impossible to actively The molecular pumps needed for this flow regime waiting for a molecule to enter it, and then to the original chamber. Turbomolecular pumps are basically multiple one direction and prevent them from traveling These pumps require insane rotation speeds, need incredibly tight tolerances too; They all. So, it goes without saying, these kinds of All the while, outgassing and other leaks chance. Creating a high vacuum requires extreme precision Spinlaunch didn't need any of this. Mark Sipperley, the director of Engineering pump station at the New Mexico site. Here in the vacuum plant the, the most familiar chamber and then runs underground is this So this is the very end of it. So off of this vacuum manifold, we then have up on top we first have roughly pumps, which down to about 30 millibars. Those are dry screw pump that are essentially It's it's one form like a turbocharger. Then the next stage is we have this roots shape of a turbocharger. It's like this the rotating twin screw pumps All right. So that kicks on at about 30 millibars. So it's mostly only in it's 30 millibars below. But you'll notice that each pump, it exhausts higher pressure. All right. So this roots pump only works in 30 millibars to one atmosphere. So that's backed by another pistons pump So this this would also be like a great roughing So when we turn on the first system, we have this piston pump. Sorry, both of these piston pops when we get of roots pump, which is this guy right here. And we have another smaller one on this one. These pistons are also running as well. And then once we get down below one millibar pumps, which only are really effective down Those work like oil jets. So you vaporize oil, you shoot it down a series runs them down a series of tubes and then condense out the oil and then the water, or through like a long path, and it eventually to it, and then it goes to a piston pump, So we talked before you know, vacuum may not of vacuum like a hard vacuum like in millibar,in E to the minus -7 torr, like seven zeros are And the number that's like true vacuum. That's hard vacuum, that's where you test and like high end high end space features. That is nowhere near the atmosphere that we And that's that vacuum is also really expensive We have to follow a lot of stringent rules aluminums and use coatings. You know, even like putting your fingerprint take weeks to boil off. We only require the equivalent to the minus Today we're going to be running at like one We only pull the vacuum we need, because a So it's is closer to describing it like specifically. And then it will be the same. And again, that's all driven by the aerothermal. That's all that's the only vacuum that we So on the orbital system, we'll probably pull go much deeper, there's no benefit to going This is another one of those technical issues without fully understanding what Spinlaunch One of the other primary concerns expressed problem of a vehicle traveling at hypersonic atmosphere. To begin with, we need to prevent air from is released. Spinlaunch is aiming to be a high frequency satellites per day, holding the vacuum between However, the primary concern is the disastrous tether spinning at hypersonic speeds. This would be an incredibly expensive single To solve this problem Spinlaunch needed a after launch, so inside this long tube attached with doors on either end of the tube. This tube is also under vacuum during spin As the vehicle is released, using a release our cameras throughout the shoot,it passes rapidly closes behind it. As this first door is closing the second door The atmosphere will begin rushing into the of the hypersonic flight regime it will be The first and second door need to close quickly chamber. This is not an easy problem either. Millisecond delays that may seem trivial in travels this quickly. The time it takes for an electrical signal the inertia of the door, the time it takes All these problems become matters of survival Once again, Spinlaunch are keeping their cards give me a demonstration of the door closing Beach, California. Well, it's it's moving really fast. And so when the when the you know, without You're ready for a countdown just let me know Yeah. So basically what's going to happen is, you know, for lack of a better word, like a black you can pass through this with a vehicle and Okay. So and again, it's like fast in the blink So you'll see a little bit of settling as But it's, you know, basically 95% close within, Oh wow, okay. Speaker [Static] Speaker one. [LOUD BANG] It's pretty fast. Yeah that is not what I was expecting. [Laughing] Yeah, it's fast. So that actually closes. Like, it's actually hinged There's a pivot. Yeah, there's a pivot involved Yeah I wasn't sure if it was going to be But the hinged one makes sense as well. Yeah, that wasn't that what I was expecting Yeah. So it's 100% reusable, so you can set that again. So that's a key aspect of it is that you don't So, so that's fast. Visceral All right. [Laughter] It's a door closing. I don't know what to ask. It's really important not to let everybody So that's you know, that's why we have it. Oh, everybody jumps. You can't not. Yeah, yeah. So. So, you know, the airlock is a really critical overall architecture as you travel from vacuum still rotating at high velocities, you want chamber. And so the airlock is your first line of defense And so we have multiple redundant airlock passes through and it subsequently closes air from in rushing and reentering into the Amd so that the exit tunnel is really the a rise in pressure. I imagine that allows you to reset and like If you're not having to re...like.. Yeah, totally. So you can, you can do, you know, you can space for the end of the tether as well. And so you can basically just re-pressurize It's possible you could do vehicle integration But currently we're we're anticipating actually around the tether. Repressurising a small portion and integrating What do you actually see the like how many I think that's like one of the advantages I think on the very high end, it's upwards I think on the low end, it's, it's, it's about We see viability there. In Spinlaunch's public videos, the secondary This is one of the few problems that becomes As the exit tunnel grows in length, it will of the exit tunnel. Spinlaunch have only just begun these one to date at 1.6 Mach, slowing ramping up the This prototype launcher features some other configuration. One of the most obvious problems to tackle When a spinning object's weight is not evenly This is how rumble feedback works in gaming A simple electric motor with an uneven weight However, with a structure as large as Spinlaunch's any imbalance could shake the entire structure This is a major problem, because by design as it hits its maximum velocity. Spinlaunch needs a way to balance the tether There is a very simple solution to this problem Release a balanced weight from the other side Right now they are simply releasing a counterweight vacuum chamber. We saw one of these counterweights being manufactured however over the long term having to clean launch is far from ideal. The ideal solution would be to release a counterweight a single half rotation of the tether. The oil-filled journal bearing the massive of this imbalance over a period of time this The next issue we need to concern ourselves at Mach 6. This again, is a fairly unique problem. Typically weight is a restraining factor in to spin the aeroshell up to speed is actually And I like to use the analogy of like a Tesla, So the Tesla Model S plaid is about 0.7 megawatt. So on the low end, it's about 100 Teslas but Is that the full scale? Yeah, for the full scale. Yeah, yeah, yeah. For the orbital. System you're talking about like on the low On a very low end. You know, it's probably about 65 to 70 megawatts. And again, that really depends on where you know, whether or not you, you know, what, Operate with. What, what, you know, what tether strength sectional strength that all feeds back into And then you have to kind of scale it accordingly. I would say like really conservatively, like. You know, if you wanted to spin. Up really fast, then you're talking about So whether you want to speed up in an hour a difference of of how much power that you So but, you know, on the high end, you're Power, which is like. I don't know, maybe in layman's terms, it you know, there's, you know, there's motor motor that that has that capacity. Right. And so this is, you know, it's industrial off the. Shelf do you need to worry about grid integration that much. Power? I mean. For better or for worse? No, because you're typically, you know, particularly that we're building, we're expecting them remote coastal locations. Greenfield sites that don't have substantial So you're you're basically, you know, bringing You you know, and so you have to, you know, or are you doing energy recapture, you know, Spinlaunch claims their total energy demand The cost per kilowatt hour for industrial So that's a cost of 6000 dollars in electricity [9] That's insanely cheap. To put that into perspective 100 megawatt kerosene [10], about 8 tonnes of fuel. For reference, the Electron Rocket from New Rocket Lab, capable of launching a similar The vast majority of that weight being its Spinlaunch claims their rockets will need compared to these competitors, with substantially They are essentially replacing the first stage kinetic launch system. Spinlaunch will also be able to recapture energy in the tether, using regenerative braking. Even further reducing their electricity bill. Because of all this, the limiting factor for the weight the tether can support, and as the density of the aeroshell, because it affects ability to punch through the atmosphere. It's ballistic coefficient. Ballistic coefficient is essentially an object's Think about how hard it is to throw a feather. No matter how hard you throw it, it's not It's got a large surface area for air resistance That's a low ballistic coefficient. Ballistic coefficient is found by dividing multiplied by the cross-sectional area. So spinlaunch effectively wants to maximize This is obviously not typical for aerospace If you, if you look at reentry capsules whether capsule where it's really, really high velocity manned capsule or something like the space They're typically using thermal protection on the order of less than 300 kilograms per It's just basically foam. And so so typically that means you're making The material often is. You know, brittle Or prone to fracture you And then you have to replace the tiles, kind So what we're dealing with is, you know, you're You have, you know, materials like copper, a significantly higher density, right? You're talking about, you know, thousands have really great thermal conductivity. So basically, as you transition through the then you're basically into heavy, dense materials This is one of those unintuitive consequences When I first saw the full-scale aeroshell if I could ride it like a cowboy, but then I knew from looking at it that it was made me as extremely odd. Those metals would melt at the temperatures But, because spinlaunch launches at Mach 6, atmosphere rather quickly, and as a result, by these large heat sinks. Aluminum and copper's high thermal conductivity body of the aeroshell before it has a chance The hefty carbon fiber shell is also incredibly Spinlaunch has already pulled their smaller several feet deep from the force of impact, With a parachute these aeroshells will be as they serve no function other than to protect This isn't an intricate mechanical machine. Launching from the ground at these speeds If we plot drag coefficient vs mach number unintuitive occurs. The drag coefficient rises as you would expect to fall as Mach number increases. This is the equation for drag. It's proportional to drag coefficient, air With drag coefficient being lower at hypersonic through the thick lower atmosphere, where as fast as possible. Deceleration is a function of time after all, lost per second. Let's calculate the dynamic pressure this it would cause. The dynamic pressure is found by multiplying by 2. At sea level, at Mach 6, the dynamic pressure The final aeroshell is 1 meter in diameter Which means the force applied to the aeroshell This sounds like a lot, but here's where the This drag force is being applied to a 10 tonne That's a lot of inertia. Force equals mass by acceleration. Acceleration equals force divided by mass. That means high mass equals less deceleration. In this case deceleration due to drag will it will rapidly decrease as we move through and lose velocity. In fact, with Spinlaunch's planned trajectory, will encounter over time. Halfing in just 5 seconds, and dropping to in 15 seconds. While gravity will remain more or less constant That means gravity loses form the majority In total spinlaunch will lose about 150 m/s Satellites like Starlink orbit at 500 kilometers if Spinlaunch maintained it 2050 m/s velocity the 2 stage rocket hidden within would still However, now free of the mass of the aeroshell, only a fraction of the mass of fuel and oxidiser the largest satellite this system can launch, We can actually graph the relative velocity It Started at Mach 6 at launch, and ended The rocket motors then kick in to rapidly velocity. The physics here absolutely checks out here, will be viable is the big question to be answered. Spinlaunch has built a 1 third scale prototype part of this technology is scale. They have reached 1.6 mach thus far, have in their test facility in Long Beach, and pushing further and further. This is a comparison of SpaceX and Spinlaunch's tell the full story of the real driving issue A SpaceX launch to low earth orbit costs about The heaviest Falcon 9 payload to date has mission. [14] That equates to a launch price of about However, small satellite launch companies, over orbit and launch schedules, charge about Dollars per kilogram is not a perfect metric, Spinlaunch is facing. Spinlaunch's main competitive advantage like fuel while substantially miniaturized They also have huge potential to launch far the economics of scale to kick in. Spinlaunch claims to be targeting an ambitious dollars, placing them at 2500 dollars per In my time in Spinlaunch, talking to their believe in this company. The basic napkin physics for Spinlaunch absolutely of solving the engineering challenges, but is going to require enormous amounts of investment, to many of my questions, as they seek patents I got little info on one of the most difficult for the aeroshell; even the 3D models Spinlaunch removed, so we had to model our own along The design of the satellites is another problem, to survive, but g-hardening isn't as large to think. The most difficult part. So besides the structure is, is also the reaction So the reaction wheel is, generates momentum Yeah. And so it typically is a big mass that's cantilevered So which is the one thing that we don't like, up on a can really. This is what I assumed was going to be like has to be fairly high mass to control the Right. And so we've done a lot of work to instead out different ways to do that, we basically of deploying the wheel. So we support the wheel in the flat orientation So when it's spinning, it's, it's well supported. The bearings are unloaded and so it can spin And then we deploy the wheel for when it actually Okay. So it's a it's a simple solution for what And does the the axis of the actual wheel I imagine that's a fairly high weight to have So we, what we do is we unload the bearings actually move we reload the wheel into the Oh, okay. So it's just taken off completely Okay. That's interesting. Okay, that's funny. Yeah. So again, trying to make simple solutions Yeah. I like that. And like those are very simple answers, right? Like I figured that the like the inertial think about it as like, yeah, that's actually You don't have to have it in the exact configuration Same with the solar panels.You can have them, Yeah. So it's the problems aren't necessarily hard It's just you have to think differently. Right? And so, you know, Randy, who you talk to earlier, a lot is it's not that these are difficult We just have to change the way we think about So it's a little bit it's not a lot. The nice part is to that over the last 60 with satellites actually has helped us because They want to make things stronger. So every bit that they're forcing them to And it already inherently starts to make them Most components, we don't have to do anything Maybe a little epoxy here but like we one here among the entire team is we took a board a quarter of an inch. And we all looked I was like, okay, that thing's And we spun it and we brought it back and And we are like, all right. Our intuition is completely changing. And yeah, and it's because it's, it's so little of steel. You know, the amount of force that that was was relatively small. Right so it just bent over and we all kind it does make sense. Okay. Yeah, that's right. So our intuition is starting to grow about, up really isn't that big of a deal. And so that has been in a positive way. Very surprising. Gs can only create force where there is mass, been finding ways to reduce mass for decades. A simple aluminum can is capable of withstanding Minimizing weight located on unsupported surfaces by the gs, and some simple corrugation can without buckling. We spun up an off the shelf star tracking accelerator, which can already achieve 10,000 moments later. This is a really interesting engineering challenge, time for some bizarre reason. Posing questions about basic physics calculations saying it's impossible. Even missing the fact that kinetic energy the Karmin line 6 decades ago. If you want to check the math and physics taking my word for it, I have, in partnership diving into this problem. Starting with an in-depth interactive lesson launches, and moving on through to interactive launch system like this would need to achieve, itself. This is your chance to test your understanding a curated interactive course. All designed with fun interactive Real Engineering You can get access to that course right now, courses, by clicking the link to the description. You can get started for free, and the first annual premium subscription. With that you can level up on your STEM skills scientific thinking. With courses on computer science fundamentals, can kickstart a career in coding with their Brilliant has been the longest running partnership funded nearly 40% of the videos on this channel. This is a major milestone in both of our journeys. Creating in depth lessons together to test videos. A natural partnership where we can help each educating the next generation of scientists If you are looking for something else to watch the life limiting challenges facing the next Real Science's new video on the strange