Hello, I am noodohs and guess what? We have updated to the new Bundles of Bravery update, which means a few things that I am pretty excited about. The first one is um Well, well bundles. Bundles are now a thing and they no longer require rabbit hide, They can now be made with just cowhide, I think. So I think why don't we go ahead and make one in here. Yeah, see, right there. Bundle. Easy peasy. Where's my string? Boop, boop. Bundle. Look at how easy that was to craft. And what's important about this is that we can now... Oops, that is not what I wanted to pick up. We can put all of those items into a single bundle. I can even grab a few more just in case we need a cauldron... The grindstone that's out there, what else? I don't know, an anvil. You never know when you might need any of these things. A brewing stand. All of these things can now just go into one bundle that lives in my inventory. I think we should probably color this bundle, I want to say gray because that makes sense from a tools perspective for me. You may also notice since I was updating anyway I use some of the vanilla tweaks resource packs to get the 3D doors and the 3D chains and some of those things because I think that's fun. Where are all my dyes living these days? Hello? Nice. The other thing that I am excited about for this update is something that you guys might have even missed in the patch notes. I saw this on Xisuma's video about the update. Oh god. A lot of my mods are not updated, so there's a bit of a lag. But down here, as you may recall, for this elevator I have been using slime blocks and a hay bale down here. But no more. Did I say slime blocks? I meant honey blocks. The game was updated... So that that still works on the way up, but I don't even need to use the slime blocks anymore if I just hold down crouch. No damage! So that means that I can get rid of all of these honey blocks that I've been using up there and no matter how far down I fall with this, I can just... hold crouch and I will take no damage. So yeah! Minecraft updates! I still can't figure out how to get rid of this fog using these shaders, but you know, it is what it is. We're just gonna deal with it. You know, I haven't really used these before. So it looks like I can scroll wheel and then what? Scroll wheel and then right-click? Okay, so now I can go hi-yah. And then we can put this here and just call this... Utilities. U-til-i-ties. Pick that up and throw it back in the bundle. Oh, that's so good. I have been sleeping on bundles, but it's largely because rabbit hide was very annoying to make. Make? It was hard to get. It was hard to get, not hard to make. Well, I guess this is now my bundle bundle. That was not quite how I meant to do that, but it works, so. We can also use the bundles to just pick up random crap. So when we're out mining all the cobblestone and stuff can be picked up into bundles. I'm very excited about that. We'll grab another one here that I'm just gonna use for exactly that, really. I think it's probably also time for me to stop being lazy and actually finish out all the chests for this and maybe even organize the storage. Imagine that! An organized storage system. Hey, I made it out the door. And here we go. This is what this was supposed to look like. Five tall. I, can I do...? Oh, we could go one taller. There we go. This is the wall of chests finally done. Boy that took me a while to get all the wood for that but it's done. We're done. At some point here, we do need to build the secret door, the vault door, however I want to configure that. Maybe this will just be a hallway? That goes sort of back into the mountain there and then there's a vault back there. That probably makes the most sense. And then all these valuables can go back there. And I should probably do something about the lighting, huh? And like, you know, An actual ceiling instead of just the inside of the roof. There, problem solved. If I can't see it, it's not a real problem. It has taken me a while to get here. My original layout was for an older storage system I had that had basically an extra one of these modules plus another two columns of chests. So I had to significantly scale it down. I moved any of the things that are in the farms around here like the iron farm or the moss farm, sugar cane, etc. I took those out of here. Armor and weapons which are over there books are over there. So that scaled this down quite a bit. It's not perfect, but it pretty much has a spot for everything. The original system was set up to have a chest for basically every item in the game with the exception of some of these things like miscellaneous plants because I was not about to make a lily pad chest, like how often do you need lily pads, right? So this is the evolution of that to fit in a smaller space and some of these things may move as farms are created. We may also just create a whole new storage system one day, but now you can see we have things neatly arranged. So that's just tuff. This is all the different kinds of stairs. Here's things made out of copper, unless they're bricks, in which case brick things go up here, and so on and so forth. We are finally reasonably organized. And I think another thing that we can do, some of these decorations are different kinds of banners and I think we might be able to stack some of those sorts of things into bundles so if this gets a little overflowing with different kinds of banners and pots and whatnot, we can probably stick a couple of them in the bundles just to tidy things up a little bit. But yeah, I am overall pretty pleased with this. It occurs to me that I need to get a fletcher because holy crap, we have entirely too many feathers from that chicken farm. And you know, I still haven't even really started digging into all the cooked chicken from that farm. I'm gonna have to soon here, though. So anyway, that's enough of this. Feels good, though, to have that all set up. Now what do I do with my life? Well, I guess the thing to do next will be to start the interior here, so I got some white concrete and I ended up having to move the door over. I might move it over one more. I kinda forgot that I was going to, to make interior walls a different color. One thing that I really would like for them to implement are, well two things, really. Vertical slabs so that we can have a different exterior versus interior, and not only that but the same thing that we ran into here, I would like to be able to put two different slabs in the same block space. So, let's say this one right here was the quartz and that one was the wood. That would be really helpful because then this could be half pink cherry wood and then the other half would be like a concrete slab and then I wouldn't have to plan it like this and keep messing it up. And then I kinda think for over here, maybe um, green? Like a green, lime terracotta might be nice. I'm not so sure what about the front. I'm gonna have to think about that one. This doesn't actually need to be that. Hmm. So one thing that I need for my build is terracotta and I need cactus because cactus is the only way to get green dye and if you look up at the, up at the coordinates there, we're several thousand blocks away. This is the closest desert. The closest desert to where I live and it's thousands of blocks away. Just... Holy moley. I'm sorry, sir. I need to borrow this real quick. So anyway, I'm gonna get some sand that we can use for concrete. I'm gonna get some cactus that we can use to make dye, I'm gonna try and find somewhere over that way. There should be a Badlands biome, I think. Sun coming up here is nice though. And we'll see what I can get. All this because I just wanted to make green dye. I wanted a nice green living room. That's it. You don't even have anything, you stink. What am I gonna do with an empty map? Sirs, I'll take your bread though. Jerks. As annoying as it was to come all the way out here for this, at least I don't have to keep trading with my one mason for two colors of terracotta. So this will probably save me time and emeralds. Which is great! [Terrible beatboxing] Remember how last episode I said haste? Killing the wither to get a haste beacon was on my radar? Maybe we do that this episode, huh? I need to go kill a bunch of wither skeletons, though, in the hopes of getting their skulls. I think I have one or two. But you need three. Okay, I made it all the way back we now have all this sand which is pretty good and we have all of this terracotta, which will eventually, at least some of it will become green. We have 14 cactus right now. I put one out here because the cactus farm is probably on the horizon here and I'm just, I don't quite remember the specifics. I think the idea is that you do something like this. Since this isn't a full block it thinks it can grow and then once it grows it connects, which automatically breaks the top half of the cactus and then you get cactus that way and so on and so forth. So you build a big farm with a water collection system in the middle and then you just get all the cactus you could possibly want. So that's what I'm hoping happens? But, yeah, I'm just gonna run an experiment here and see what happens, and in the meantime, I do think it is time. Let's go back to the nether and try to get some wither skeleton skulls. I have one. I checked in there I have exactly one and we need two. Ugh, the wither. Here we go. I've got looting on this sword. Nothing. Well, we'll check back in in a few hours, probably. Oh, you're way up there, great. Hi. Alright, that's two with no success. At least we're getting coal, hooray? Hi, can we at least fight please? Nope. Nothing. I mean, I guess I'll take the loot. Would you like to donate your skull? You would not, okay. Yeep! After all that you don't even have the courtesy to provide me your skull. Hello. Oh boy, there's a bunch of you. What is this luck? Are you kidding me? Nope. And... Huh, yes! Alright, we got two skulls. You wanna give me one right? You want to give me one skull. He does not want to give me one skull. Well that didn't go quite how I wanted. Uhhhhh... shoot. No wrong door. Yeah so um, I was just trying to kill a blaze and I guess one of my arrows went... somewhere. Oh, this is so bad. Oh that was a really terrible spot to die, too. And I didn't have my Flashback recording going, so I'm not gonna be able to see where all my stuff flew off to. Ohhh this is bad, this is bad, this is very, very bad. Okay well, okay, so the good news is a lot of my gear was netherite and that means it cannot be burned. I think my cat just vomited. Okay well there's all my XP. I see my water bucket fell down. Uhh pants. Ooo. Boy, I think I really exploded here, huh. Some nether wart. Not what I really care about. Bundles are safe. Food is safe. Axe. I need my other... Oh there's some stuff over here. Oh my god, thank god for netherite. That pick would have been toast. Uhhhh. I have a spare elytra, I just would rather not have to... good, a boat. My boat survived. My shovel, that's not too bad. Oh no. Umm. I... Okay, so RIP wings, I guess. I think that's everything here. Just making sure nothing's hanging out in a lava pool. Great. Well, let's take stock. I have my shield, I have my, both picks. I have a golden sword I don't need, so goodbye. I have my bow, I have my sword. Umm my ender chest is gone apparently, but I have both of my bundles and fortunately the one wither skeleton skull that I had is saved. The ender chest is in there, so I think I can yank that out and then in here we have a spare pair of wings. Good lord cat, please. Throw that back in the bundle, wings on. Turn off the hitboxes for now and just go review the footage and make sure I didn't lose anything else. Alright while I have a brief bit of peace I'm looking at the other screen here. We did lose some stuff. We had a bunch of bones, a bunch of coal, this is all there. There were three diamonds, a wither skeleton skull, my boat was up there, I guess. That, that, all 64 scaffolding we lost, and that's about it. So of the things that we lost, it was three diamonds and an entire stack of scaffolding. I mean, it would have been nice to keep the diamonds. The scaffolding is mostly annoying because I still haven't built my spider spawner farm and it is annoying to craft it. Okay, I mean, all things considered, this could have been worse. You. This is your fault. Go in the lava. Be gone. Bye. I hate them. I hate them so much. Hey, loser. Whyyyyyy? Yes! Okay. We have two, right? Let's get out of here and away from all these zombified piglins. Jesus. Man it's a good thing I reset my spawn in here after we got back from the desert. Can you imagine if I had woken up in the desert? I think I might have just rage quit the series. Always set your spawn, folks. Always set your spawn. So what are our total spoils here? Lots of bones, which we don't need cuz we have a farm, a couple blaze rods, which is not too bad, some trash, a bunch of coal we don't need, a little bit of nether wart, and and we lost wings and we lost some diamonds and we lost some scaffolding. Uhhhhh but the good news, question mark, is heads. Boom. Now we can do the thing. So let's go get set up and do it. Alright, I have gathered everything that I think I'm going to need to fight this wither. I don't have a smite sword, which is unfortunate, but we do have enough supplies to make 6 iron golems to help us out. So I think we're gonna use the, you know, you could call it cheesy if you want, but the underground method. We're gonna dig a little tunnel down in deepslate, and we're just gonna make the wither down there and the wither can helpfully mine out some deepslate for us even though I have way more of it than I need. Wow I haven't gone down this way in a while. I could've just flown down the hole. Oops. Alright I've set myself up in relative safety here across from where we're gonna be which is there. There's a long tunnel down. I'm gonna drop off anything that I don't need here. We're gonna swap out the wings for extra armor. Drop those in here. I am gonna want that. We've got... 3 buckets of milk just in case. We've got our soul sand and skulls, we've got... an enchanted golden apple and a regular golden apple. We can drop off all of this stuff in here. We're good on food, we don't really need the water bucket, we don't really need the rockets, we don't really need the torches, so all of that can go in here. We might as well grab this totem of undying. And why not? A potion of healing. Instant health is always great. So spawn is set, I'm just gonna heal up because I kinda went dive bombing down into here. So here's the tunnel. It goes back a ways. It may not go back far enough. I don't know, I might be being a little hopeful. This is where I was planning on doing it. Maybe what we do is we just send this back a little farther. Maybe the thing to do then is put the golems sort of back here? Put up a wall in between then put the wither there. The wall will probably help protect the golems. And then the wither will blow up the wall and the golems will be fine. So... This guy is probably gonna spawn into the wall. Oh my god. Whatever. That was a waste But that's okay! It is now time to make the bad guy. Oh god, he just spawned like immediately, huh. That was interesting. Let's just see what happens! Sir, get down here. Well, um. That was actually incredibly effective. I don't think I get the achievement, but we have a nether star and that was the more important thing. Alright well this is now my uh, my wither killing zone I guess. Good work team. Let's put this torch down more in the middle huh? And we'll close this back off a little bit. Alright well great success. Um Let's go build a beacon. Okay so for a beacon I need 3 obsidian and I need 4 glass which is... See aren't we glad that I spent the time to organize this. So it goes like this, like this, and... and I need 5 glass, just like I said. There we go! Look at this. It glows! I don't get any achievement for that just yet, but now we can finally do haste, we can do regeneration, we can do strength, we can do resistance, the whole, the whole works. We just have to go grab a bunch of iron blocks. I don't remember exactly what the correct number is, but I kinda feel like this might be a use case where... no the bundle is not useful for that. We're just gonna need a shulker box, a shulker box that crafts the beacon. Maybe we do like a like a extra blue or something? I dunno, we'll figure that out later. For now, I do need to get to editing this video. Let's go outside, huh? This is where it's nice and bright. So I do realize this video is like 2 weeks late. I was supposed to have a second Minecraft video out by now, but life got in the way, unfortunately. I have been, oh hey look, the cactus thing works. Okay so, experiment successful. I'll just have to turn that into a farm. Anyway, life got in the way, as I was saying. I have been redoing the floor in our kitchen and that has taken a lot of time. Believe it or not, it's not simple! First you gotta pull up all the old floor, then you gotta secure the subfloor and level everything out, you don't need all that information. It's a lot of work, that's the point. There's also just been a lot of stuff going on in the real world that has made it hard to motivate myself to sit down and actually make a Minecraft video, but here we are. I just want to be clear there's no burnout or anything happening here, I'm not abandoning this world I just needed a little bit of extra time to make this video so I do hope you enjoyed. I'll try to get back on track moving forward here but, as I said I think in a previous video, it may not be every 2 weeks, it may be more frequent it may be less frequent, I dunno. We'll, I'm gonna put them out as I can, so that's it for this episode, I hope you enjoyed. Please do subscribe if you did. I'll see you guys next time.