For all that period when people were blaming you Well, I've been blamed, I don't So you were aware of that going on? You were aware that's I was truly aware of it because it was So when you met Yoko, she claimed But meanwhile, she knew who the Beatles She met you. Well, the thing is, What is your version? My version is that we were to my house, knocking on the door. Someone said, I said, okay, let her in. She came in and she said, It's want to collect a bunch of manuscripts 60th or something, birthday. And I thought immediately, I thought, But my friend John might. And that's my recollection and she went to see him. The song, Get Back. When you were recording it, Every time you sang, Get Back, and he took it as an insult. Those were very paranoid times. Let's face it, we didn't I know. If she wants to sit in that we wouldn't have done. Our girlfriends or wives Control room for a quick visit. But actually, sit in the studio No, excuse me, we're working. Did you have the guts to say that to John? You did not. It was obvious, though. It's like they're going But John always does. You can't go say and be sensible And it was an unspoken rule. You wouldn't sit in on a session. But so Yoko was doing it. I think it created uncomfortable moments. It's difficult starting right because I started on the writing song John and Yoko would like that. This is not an ordinary relationship. She's not an ordinary woman. You've got to admit that. Yes, but weren't you acting out You're sitting in the studio, Rather than saying, John, I can't work this way Everyone was just sniping. We were just fuming and sulking and being... Did John ever say, Look, I'm bringing... He didn't ask permission to do it. The thing is, it was really just sitting on one of the amps. Excuse me, that's my amp. She couldn't use a stool. I don't think it would It was mind-blowing. But... You've never really blamed Yoko of people did, have you? No, I think at the beginning, it was was ready to do something else. And when Yoko came along, a part was the avant-garde side of things, which she was famous for, and still is. So she showed him another way And I could see that. She just said, Well, no, look, Don't you like this? And John loved strong women. His mother had been a strong woman. His Auntie, who brought him And bless her, but his first wife wasn't. She once said to me, All I want is Right. Come home and do that. And I thought, That's not John. John had met up with Yoko, and so I think My feeling was he had to clear the decks, Yoko, he couldn't have these beetle-like Because he had to give his life to Yoko. This was the nature of the relationship. Nature of her demand, you think? People get that wrong So John See, but their point as near together as they can. They want to stay together, those two. So it's all right, let But it's not that bad. We've got a lot out of people. So I think John's thing now, between Yokey and the Beatles. But she certainly didn't break the group. The group was breaking up. And I think she attracted John I think we would have all continued John fell wildly in love with her. He needed a big, big change He came to live in New York. He threw over all his English contacts That's what he wants to do in his life. So we had to fade into the background What are we going to do? Hey, John. Leave Yoko. I mean, that was obviously John never had another songwriter Did he ever write with anyone? Yoko? But other than Yoko, you were the only. I think, yeah, possibly. I'm not sure if that's true. The only person he chose was the only other person he wrote. Eventually, you even came to in John's solo career because and all of that you feel came from Yoko. That was his muse, so to speak. That he then went on to do to his career writing things like Imagine I don't think he would have She was taking him in a Right. So the avant-garde, all stuff we'd liked, But suddenly, he had a ride on this bus. Before Lennon's death, he and Yoko manage their business affairs, with McCartney persisted. Recently, McCartney and his wife, Should not everyone have been surprised? I mean, are you-That's Yoko and I are at war. I think it is During the last year or so, than we've ever had, probably. We just find we're suddenly able It's a weird thing, really, We didn't know her too well, really, A few years '80s, beginning Well, maybe I've misunderstood. Maybe it's my mistake, not hers. So I telephoned her and started talking She said, Why are you telephoning? And I said, Well, and I think I've made a big mistake. And as you were John's wife, and I was very fond of John, I feel that he would have liked me to telephone you And she said, Well, Don't do it out of pity or don't sympathy. I don't want charity. Which at first I thought,. I didn't know the gut, She's right. I thought she was a hard woman. I don't think she is now. I think she's very Loving, caring woman. I think I thought she was pushy, I don't think she is. She's determined more than Some people will just give in. In this reasonably bizarre clip, that Paul McCartney has just been knocked is that Paul's current record In view of John's murder, of course, Paul McCartney has just been knocked off, I'm still rising. How do you feel about that? I feel terrific. Can you, in fact, laugh at her I didn't know who Jean was. I don't know Beatles. You knew that that was not true. I don't know, man. I tell you, live and let live. It's two lives, We've been through all that. But you also have to call her regularly So you have to get along with her. Yeah, to some degree. So if in fact, you said here today and in fact knew who the Beatles your business dealing with her. Yeah, you would be dead No, we haven't got That's true. We're okay. Yeah, sure. It's a privilege to know if Here tonight, it's a privilege to come along and to do this. John, no matter what people was a very, very beautiful person. And it's an It's an honor to be able May I say this? That everything is grand that he's come I think that Joe would Later John, we suddenly John's in love with this girl. If he wants to bring in the studio, We learned to cope with it. I now feel that he had It might have been better if he'd been and says, Hey, guys, I'd love her. I really love her, and I just But we had to figure that out. I was totally in love with her. You just got to respect her. So we did, and I do. Paul came out, Paul McCartney and said, Look, for those people-That I'm sure that she got tons of letters Because they like the idea Also, it's good to have people People like having someone to blame. You were the easy target, I guess. Well, we know each other for such a long and the intelligent guy. So of course, she understands what What looks like a Beatles breakthrough. After all these years, one just might finally be over. It's been a long and winding road, out with Yoko Ohno, ending one In the latest issue of Rolling to reconciling with John Lennon's wife Mccartney tells the magazine, there's got to be something. And he added, It's like, Are you going to hold on to We were just pissed that Ohno has long been blamed I think that he genuinely did a accounting on in this crazy long life that he's had, it to have this unfinished business.