Lion crossing point, please drive carefully What's the wood called? It's Mukwa This one is a map? Kaoma - ZAMBIA Good morning Internet, it is 7:50 in the morning and welcome back to the channel Welcome here in Kaoma, Zambia and today I'm going to ride to Lusaka which is the capital of Zambia And I have a good reason why, but I'll explain that later but first I'm gonna.. Well Alaska looks terrible, look at her so Alaska needs a wash, and I need good internet I need some proper Wi-Fi for once uh, to upload my videos so that's why I'm going to Lusaka It is 400 kilometers but before I go I realized that uh, in my last ride I lowered my tire pressure but it will all be paved from now so I'm going to put some air back in my tires. I actually have a new air compressor that I've been carrying with me since Benin but I haven't.. haven't used it so far So I will use that for the first time See this one is wireless. It's actually much nicer than the one I had before Quite happy with this and you can just charge it with a USB-C cable It's also not so dangerous, the one I had before I kind of had that open remember that one Like if you stick your finger in there then you lose it type thing. This is a lot safer You are ready now? Yes Could I buy some more water please? Okay Let's go! Okay let the fun of dodging potholes begin Ah, and this is what happens with these roads you know like, probably 5 years ago this was brand new tarmac Like I've seen recently you know It's like oh, they got a brand new road but then it's actually they don't lay a proper foundation Or do any maintenance and then 5 years later it's this And it's actually worse than having like a.. a normal dirt road See, then everybody starts riding on the side again so Just a waste of money and resources I'd say To lay like these cheap roads Lion crossing point, please drive carefully Hi! Welcome Thank you. Can I come in with the bike? Yeah, yeah sure Okay, this is my little house in Lusaka.. for the next coming days Cute right? Thank you. See you later Okay, so it is Alaska time It really is Alaska time, she needs fuel, she needs a wash.. desperately She needs an insurance and some small maintenance And so I'm going to do it all I am first going for fuel because my tank is almost empty So I thought let's do that first and then Alaska is also ready for the next ride Then I can just leave Lusaka Madam, you can go there Okay Hey, how's it going? Good morning Oh, this is a good bike Oh yes Uh, full please Sorry? Is it a good bike? Of course! It's a little Honda Ah.. how much? Full? Full please yeah And I also have a.. I have two tanks Wow wow Just wow Yeah, very nice Are you from Lusaka? Yes, born and bred Do you sometimes go to countryside Zambia? You go? Me yes but you? Na, I don't really travel a lot You prefer to stay here? I would say I'm not adventurous Wow Are you creating a documentary? YouTube - Huh? Oh right! Right Okay, thank you Have a safe journey huh Thank you Take care Okay, first thing off my list. Now let's see if I can find a uh, washing place somewhere To get rid of all the mud Let me see at the hostel they said that there was a car wash somewhere here Hi! How are you? On that big machine! Oh big machine Can I ask you something? Is there.. I'm looking for a, like a car wash? Car wash? It is there. Huh? We have. Where? Go around there, at last! Okay Go around last, at LAST! Oh okay! Thank you so much You find the guys that clean cars, motorbikes Okay perfect thank you! Bye! Ah there's also an ATM here. That's great Can get some cash out All the way at the end. Some nice places to eat here too All looks fantastic Here yes Surely they can do motorbikes too right? How are you? Do you also wash bikes? Okay okay Ah! Oh, sorry Here or here? Here Okay Look how clean she is Perfect Bye! Bye! Job number two done I'm just going to go and get some cash and then I can buy insurance Yes Okay it is done. Now let's get insurance Do that here, Phoenix Insurance Hi Bye! Huh? Clean hey Very clean! Very good You are coming from very far? Yes, Netherlands Yeah Thanks man How are you? I watch you on YouTube Oh yeah. Cool man Enjoy Zambia! Thanks, bye! Um.. oh the entrance is there &quot;Reverse parking&quot; All right I have insurance and the nice thing is, is that here they sell uh.. what do they call it? Comesa And it's again an insurance that is valid for multiple countries. So now for all the countries I'm going after, I also already have the insurance So I don't have to worry about getting the insurance anymore which is nice So that's also done. I am going to make my way back to the guest house And then when I'm back, I'm going to do little maintenance on Alaska Sunglasses. I don't need sunglasses No thank you sir Oh, he sells like the map of Africa. That's quite cool What else do you have? No thank you You don't have Honda? Oh you do! No no, thanks. No thanks I'm fine. I already have sunglasses I already have How are you? Where are you from? Netherlands - Netherlands Oh yeah Good luck Safe journey Thank you Yeah, be strong! Very strong, ha ha ha Are you from here? Yah Yeah I am a Zambian from Lusaka Okay okay I like the city Bye-bye thank you Thanks madam You're welcome How are you? I'm good, how are you? How are you? I'm fine, how are you? Fine, fine You make it yourself? Sorry, yes You make this? What's the wood called? Mukwa Yes Ah Take this one, this one I cannot bring anything, I'm sorry This one is a map? Yeah GPS.. map I have to go, sorry! How many kilometer? Huh? How many kilometer? 20,000 What's your name? Huh? Books That's your name? Yes Zambians are cool people right? They are really friendly Here is it Thank you! Okay, so what do I need to do? I noticed I'm missing one of these little black pins Um.. so now this panel keeps on like doing this So I'm going to see if I still have one. I am very talented in losing those things And this this is my bag with like small spares. I have more spare parts with me But they are in another bag, but these are like uh.. things that you know like, rubbers I have uh.. washers. I even have a cam chain with me just because it's relatively small and not so super heavy So I thought why not. These are also rubbers Uh fork seals sets. These are also fork seals These are uh.. fuses. I have tons, I have all sorts of bearings Random.. you know things that might come in handy Spare bulb Assortment of things Sometimes.. are these for.. these are gaskets for oil filters. I have my two oil filters with me But also another bag These are all bearings.. bearings This is to measure the valve clearance but actually the valves barely need any adjustments at all Uh, remember we did it in Alaska. So but that's already.. uh 20,000 21,000 kilometers ago And there's no ticking or nothing, so I don't think the valves need to be done But if they need to be done, um I have the tool to measure them And I, you know what I actually also have? Because this motorbike comes with like these little plates So if the valves need adjustment, I have literally every size and probably like two of every size with me This is quite expensive but there's no way you're going to find this on the road anywhere So I thought let's just buy the whole box, and if my valve plates need to be replaced then I have them. I still haven't found what I'm looking for Spark plugs Brush for my chain Okay it took some digging but I found the one so.. You just have to.. the seat is a bit in the way But this is the one that goes there All right that is one thing fixed. After all that sand riding it's time to look after my air filter It's tight this way Oh yeah, there is a little bit of sand and dirt in my airbox So this was uh.. I would say necessary Yeah, that one can do with a clean Let's clean that airbox I was just going to tighten this bolt Uh, because my mount is starting to flip forward again But only now I realized that there is one bolt missing here And yes, I know about loctite.. and still you can lose bolts I promise you. See this is proof, this is the red loctite but I also have the blue one somewhere So now I'm going to see if I can.. if I have something that resembles something that fits there I think this one might fit Yes, this fits I think I'm ready, I also cleaned the bags a little bit. I lubed the chain So I think Alaska is ready for the next ride I'm just going to put the cover back and then I'm done for today So that was it for today, I got everything done here in Lusaka, I think Ready to continue through Zambia, so I'm going to end this video now I really hope you liked it. If you did please give a big thumbs up Subscribe down below and then I will see you in the next video