[Music] This backyard town has been 25 you see on the property we built ourself built. I have to show you the gum. nothing but a piece of styrofoam square of these. Our grandchildren had to go see had to eat all the candy but saved me the You better smile! Don't be frowning all Ronnie. We are a team. We work together and what started the whole thing with our trading the second building we built and it has fake It's got some weight to it) Well after the Missouri and we saw this show called &quot;Lost in the 50s. The ladies were in the poodle skirts and I guess I got hooked. Started from there and and you're looking at the painter he will So this is our 50s diner and it's called is my special place and I love to fill up with is about Coca-Cola?) I love the red and white, makes it stand out. We collect Coke but we drjnk we drink Sprite , made by Coke. It's yeah mostly serve you ice cream and drinks and any joy and and happiness when we get to invite gratifying because it's been a lot of hard of our cabinets and decorated it with guess my Coca-Cola dishes. Coca-Cola silverware. We have and collectibles that we purchased over the years Most time it's Coca-Cola and sometimes it's other it's going to go but if eventually it will find a that I have came from and anybody that's getting don't throw it away till you check with me first. that I've built It's my little schoolhouse. These and everyone is to bring their favourite sock uh building. I made all of the children some other dolls. But I would take their heads off and I used the old floor joists, I used all the of a piece of plexiglass. This is my school dots. I even made her polka dotted boots. he the one that has named the school teacher This is our Tiny Town for our great grand kids enjoying their little town and using their little building. I made this train out of just odds and bed. I just took a little little bit of everything house here and I collected the gingerbreads the coffee shop next to it. We named this coffee him Uncle Winford and he has hired Miss Latte to to see children in the shop. This is a lot of Tootsie rolls are made out of styrofoam. Nothing buildings and if it was real it wouldn't last. nurse. I call her Miss nurse Good Body and this he looked like a serial killer so I had to redo you go into my bakery because it's filled with not want to eat any of my cakes and pies because brown caulking. The coconut cake is made from top for the coconut. I came up with all these would get a vision of things I wanted to make. I ran a cup machine, printed advertisements on cups. also filled with fake candy. The miniature domino to feel that space. One day I come home and real and I picked it up bit on it and Ooo it was anything I could come up with. The Whoppers sound. Just plastic bottle tops. Children are there's nothing real. This is my Bridal Shop. I just wanted a place to display it. I get a vision to discard. If it's broken he'll fix it and then that. So this is my toy shop and it's filled Dolls. It has a loft and the loft is is fill with personal apartment up there. You don't want to go place is up in that loft. These outhouses are not you have big John standing there and over in the pot. Okay, this is your pride and joy so you talk probably thought I was a little nuts when I first board and he's enjoyed it as much as I I have. Coke but when you go in here ain't no Coke, it's Pepsi but there's just not that much out there to shop. This is my barber chair. I refinished rust off and this is a picture of how it looked. I'm no upholster. I just do it on my own. I worked things. I learned to run every machine where I it and ask questions. Before I quit work, there I built all these frames down in my shop and pole on the back of my tractor and raised them up. says so. This is my service station. This is a 70s gas pumps. They're not as old as I'd like for in that day. And this is the office of the gas some of them are still full. The earliest ones are 25 years years. And now I'm through with it! But mind. We are not just going to sit back and not with our little town and I'm very happy. Our 50s