After ten thousand years, we're back. is the peak of mech design. completely nostalgia-pilled. When you go to school Then come straight home to stay You have no control over the media you "Right!" core memory was the original combining It was certifiably "too hot to handle" hands on one of these bad boys at a K. B. Toys. millennial desperately grasping for Starting with the Triceratops Zord... I'm starting with this spray bottle because the It's got the frill and the The first step is to liberate the head shape I was a bit sloppy around the edges, but For now, I'm just going to continue For its bird beak-type mouth, I'm Which I lost the original spinner for, This 90s plastic is built tough though. various scissors before landing on my Actually, scissors are a bad choice. bisecting the bird beak. trying to glue various cheap plastics together the glue to adhere to the surface. I blame this cheap oil-based bottle plastic. I'm actually just gonna keep brute-forcing For the bottom jaw, I want something else. Its mate was previously used to make a But I also have a few others saved up To lower the chances of super glue breaking filling the inside of whatever I'm Ooh, for the nose horn, I have just the thing. which includes this horn from As long as we're getting all horned up, we might But for these, I'm taking some creative liberties... ...and reinterpreting the horns as Complete with rivets, and a whole I'm not really sure what you but I'm sure someone does and they're Using a couple more horns, I'm chopping ...but using the remaining It's now at the point where I want to start And the best candidate for the job is another I cut out various sections and fit them to give an extra layer of dimension And then a bunch of rivets to tie the layers the steampunk or dieselpunk aesthetic. original Megazord as the epitome of mech design... I'm also influenced by the mechanical So I'm expecting a lot of weird curves and rivets. whatever trash is kicking So I honestly have no idea At this point, it doesn't But once again... creative liberties. The curves of the spray bottle have Which was about this big next to a business man. of a more substantial slab of metal... trimmed to fit the shape of the mouth. really blend well with that layer of plastic... a smoother finish between the two layers. able to feel the smooth finish of the goop. This is just an opportunity to spread it After filling up the mouth gaps The head is looking pretty good, but I These are some of my favorite Partially finished educational model kits. but once they reach the steps "I'm doing the best I can, but I'm To be fair though, I would also ignore kitbash fodder here as well. head that belongs to TOBBIE II. II's head is that it already includes ...when it transforms from My friend Kayakasaurus sent me 90s degrees, so now it's a perfect robo neck. or any cool trash, toys, and trinkets... My neck was a bit too thick to mount inside Then for this end section... to help with mounting the tricerahead. Then to make sure the pipe is lined up just right... head and letting it rest until it's solid. I can slide this on and off for easy this neck is fully functional. "Impossible!" body, why not more spray bottle plastic? nozzle goes right here just because it fits. slot in place, but it's blocking Which is where this little educational model kit from earlier comes in handy. room for the neck frill when it's folded down. Recently, I picked up one of these as a But, YUCK, the gum tasted so It went straight to the trash. "For you, not them!" I'm using the two hemispheres as the As well as these two leg pieces I want to embed this pink hockey puck So I'm roughing out the space for it, then finessing the curve until This left me with a huge mess But after a little sweep up and a clean After gluing the pieces in place with super glue on the inside for extra structural support... with a whole mess of details. maker cartridges that was previously used to This fits right here so Off camera, I rotary tooled off a room for this piece as the tank tread cover. between the two body pieces, so I'm blending it But for this circular space right here, I'm kit meant to go there. For a few other gaps and holes that you'll store final faction toys that have just enough But I do want to cover these These are my socks. garbage that I really buy these socks for. keep this great sci-fi grate. I want to take care of the tank treads next. But for the actual treads, a layer of EVA foam cut I finally discovered the official every pair at a Goodwill over the past year. I think this cosplay EVA foam is too to the dollar store variety. After gluing down all these little wedges in a We get this. Oh, sorry Bill. This is a method inspired I highly recommend his videos. This is one of your videos... Bill Making Stuff. of these chunks of foams with glamorous bits. Oh... don't worry about those. still gonna stab a toothpick axle in between them... least imply some engine action Then for the rear set of wheels, I'm piece to help hold these pieces in place. have become obfuscated under forced channel lore. up every horseshoe that I bulk purchased or else. since the bottom is not armored... making its soft underbelly very vulnerable. Mechanical Nonsense, I want That means filling up any free Like the backside which still For that, a remnant from a previous video. contributed parts to become Shrek train. drilling techniques to put a hole in it. Because I'm planning on sticking as a way to connect a future Zord. fists to fill up these holes. I've decided I really don't like that this I'm going to hide it using a I want this Zord to ultimately have a somewhat So I'm layering several pieces of this This is not a LEGO piece. But since it's not precious LEGO, that means it's "BTR! Built to Rule (Ruin)!" the start of the Triceratops' tail... brutally attached with a lot of hot glue. this tail is pretty much a cannon. dollar store weapon bits to make it look Then to make sure it never falls worth of hot glue hidden deep inside. with another piece and no one will ever know. this already drawn and quartered Chris Pratt. gun bits as a couple exhaust pipes. to add some sort of piston connecting Right now, it's just a plain circle doing nothing. it looks like it serves a function. I'm making an observation deck, but Luckily, I had some teriyaki This gives a nice anti-slip metal texture to Some guardrails made from this This is the coolest truck bumper you've ever seen. And the cow pusher part here because Here I'm making a ladder, which you Because Power Rangers don't really use ladders. get into their Zords. realistic Power Rangers universe with normal And now, it's time for rhinestone rivets. these on, but... Now that it's covered in a bunch of polka Like a random pipe connecting from Then to hold the pipe in place, this bag to create a bunch of pipe straps. that means it's time to paint? I almost forgot the back of the dino head. I'm loading up the back of the frill You can't really see it when So I'm just crowding it out with if you happen to get a glimpse back there. shaped bits for the rest, so I puzzle piece'd And now, it is truly time to paint. Normally I would spray paint outside, But I always welcome painting by hand to stipple that goop to a desired lumpy texture. primed glory. The next step is to make the But only in a tasteful, tarnished way... paint from my brush so it only hits the edges. It's tempting though to coat the whole "Liquid cool." I need that brush as dry as possible... but keeping some black paint in the recesses. Now scrape it all off. symbols and gluing on top of paint is not ideal. classic Zord color, so let's make it glue. I learned from Scratch Bashing, herein called... So that's what I am gonna do. But keep those edges nice and dry. A couple coats is all you need. Once everything was bright and blue. These colors, while nice, are solid and plain. "Don't laugh. It's not funny." I'm stealing from daddy Scratch Bashing... But really, I'm not doing much and just letting Then I'm reversing gravity and doing wash on the other side of each panel.. Let's make a rust wash in my nasty brown can. mineral spirits. long term health ramifications of But just to be safe, I like Because... unexpected results on the atmosphere..." overstating the dangers of odorless "It's very cool to follow the rules." silver areas. cute little brown boop to every rivet. silver edge highlight with a final dry-brushing. Dirt. from dirt, but instead crushed chalk pastels. to make it extra Rita Repulsive. which means it's morphin' time. all of the Patrons that help this slow moving But more specifically and musically, thank