Start your day off right with the Free In-Touch Devotional. Subscribe today. male announcer: In Touch, of Dr. Charles Stanley. Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: To obey do, the wisest thing to the easiest thing to do. And when you think about your us, we all have to admit that Sometimes we think, for example, is an easier way, it's a there's less pain. And sometimes if you and I There could be suffering. There could be rejection. You say, &quot;Well, why in the world that could happen to me?&quot; Here's the reason. Because He says whatever our God causes all things to who love Him and to according to His purpose. So God is in the and guiding His children. But He's also in the business of Him, because He knows that's the thing we can do, the, listen, possibly do is be obedient of the Word of God. This is a message &quot;The Courage To Obey.&quot; And the passage of scripture I scripture my mother gave me, right before I went to preach it could tell I was a little bit She gave me this Any time and every time in all seventeen or eighteen then--from faced in life, this verse has one I always go back to and and over again, and also for His help and His guidance. So if you'll turn to the Old and this very first chapter, I verses of this chapter together. And let's begin in verse one, &quot;Now it came about after the the LORD, that the LORD spoke to servant, saying, 'Moses My arise, cross this Jordan, you which I am giving to Every place on which the sole of it to you, just as From the wilderness and this great river, the river Hittites, and as far as the the sun will be your territory. No man will be able all the days of your life. Just as I have been with Moses, fail you or forsake you. Be strong and courageous, possession of the land fathers to give them. Only be strong and be careful to do law which Moses My do not turn from it to so that you may have This book of the depart from your shall meditate on so that you may be according to all that is you will,&quot; &quot;for then you will make and then you will Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous! Do not tremble or be dismayed, you wherever you go.'&quot; Now, while this was Joshua, listen carefully. It is a message to us in the much, because the key to having and prosperity, the right kind found in this If you'll listen carefully and change some things in your life probably thought So let's take a few moments to going on in Joshua's Moses brought the children Promise Land forty years before. They had a problem, They sent twelve spies They came back and only two, ones who said, &quot;We can take it.&quot; The rest of them said, &quot;Oh no, cities,&quot; and all the other Now, here is Joshua at same proposition before him. How do you lead all these people had given them, and where there have to fight in order purpose for them here. So, when I look at Why would Joshua Well, number one, he was of Moses, who was like He had been their He was stepping He was their leader. That's one issue here A second was this: to lead those which God had given there were walled cities. And their warriors And they had the problems of many people into that an impossible task. But it wasn't impossible because because you will lead them But I just want you to see these have caused him to be fearful. This is the reason God said to courageous, strong And He said one time, &quot;Be strong knew what he was The challenges he would people to fight, the idea of themselves: food and water and that many people, maybe million people thereabouts, many of them died off but they had children. And so it would be like people into enemy territory. And compared to their unprepared, except they So what happens? God knew that there would be to him three times, &quot;Be Now, listen carefully. If you are praying or reading something to you and you know you come back to Him again you're reading the same passage the same thing to you, watch repeat Himself because He repeats Himself for wisdom, for our guidance. And so He said to him three He knew what he would face. And so, the difficulty that he And I want to encourage you specifically because I want you the promises God gave Joshua. Now, why wouldn't He say it just of a good courage,&quot; period. Three times He said it. One time He said, &quot;Be to what I tell you to do.&quot; Why did He say it? Because He knew that Joshua was would be tempted, he'd be tried. And God was assuring So let's look at this passage. Go back to, if you Number one, verse three, &quot;Every foot treads, I have given it to He doesn't say, &quot;I might.&quot; He doesn't say, He says, &quot;I've Promise number one. &quot;From the wilderness and this great river, the river Hittites, and as far as the the sun will be your territory.&quot; Speaking of the Mediterranean. Listen to this, another promise. &quot;No man will be able all the day of your life.&quot; That is, stand against you God would be with him. &quot;Just as I have been with Moses, fail you or forsake you. Be strong and courageous, possession of the land fathers to give them.&quot; A promise, &quot;Only very courageous; according to all Moses My servant don't turn from or to the left, have success You say, &quot;Well, I'm Well, let me ask you a question. Tell me a job any more difficult living with a husband and society that is so All of us have responsibilities. All of us have And listen to &quot;This book of the depart out of but you shall meditate For what reason? &quot;So that you to do according written in it; then way prosperous, and then you will Now, you say, apply that to my life?&quot; Well, it's just this simple. What does it mean to It was the key to everything To meditate upon the Word Now, watch this carefully. You read it. You ask this question: What in this passage of scripture? You ask this question: Are You about the way I'm living? Is there something You want Is there somebody You Is there something in my life attention that You Is there some way in my some habit in my life You want to change? Lord, what is it in And I guarantee you, He person you can be. He wants to give you have the best character. He wants you to Listen, He wants, listen, He wants to enable you to He wants you to He wants you to He wants you to be able to do So, I'd ask you this question. Please don't answer this, How many of you close and open it the next Sunday? Please don't answer that. I would hope that not a And I think most of you But here's what I He said--this is God who knows whom He loves, &quot;Joshua, be meditate on it day and night.&quot; It's easy to get off track. Because, listen, we're talking This is the message of God. This is God personally He knows all about He knows all about your He knows all the things He knows what you need, what you what He knows you In other words, He knows what He He wants to prosper you. He knows that more than He says, &quot;Meditate on He knew that Joshua would need what God said in order to Well, let's just look at, as a in the Word morning and evening. Whether you read a passage is up to you. How are you going to know how grandfather, godly mother, a listen, if you're not conversation with God? And that's what it's all Remember all the questions. What do I need to change? What do You want to What is the key to this courage? Meditating upon the Word. So, now watch this, I want to happen when you begin to and see if this isn't what Number one: the fruits of it. It quietens your spirit. When you're worried and you're and you want to go to a best counselor in the Almighty God, Jehovah God. And so what happens? Reading the Word Why do you think people when terrible and troubled, they shepherd, I shall not want.&quot; And they can quote you They've got verses that quietens their spirit. Secondly, it purifies our heart. When you read the Word of example, the Word of God is a, That means He's going &quot;A light to my path.&quot; He's going to show us things in there, and things that So, it lightens our path. And then, thirdly, for example, When you get into the Word of upon God's Word, you begin wouldn't understand otherwise. And here's what'll happen. You'll read a passage what does that word mean?&quot; And you'll find out, and you'll say that in scripture?&quot; And God will lead you to And what you will discover is this bank of promises. You have a promise bank. How many of you Well, a few of you do. The rest of you You don't have promise bank. Listen to this, for example. &quot;Trust in the Lord with all understanding; in all your He will direct your path.&quot; That's in my promise bank. It ought to be in your all of us need direction. He says, &quot;I will teach you I will guide you I need direction, And we could just go on and on and your favorite promises. What is He saying? &quot;This is the confidence that anything according to His will, He hears us, we know that desire of Him&quot; in the bank. Now, if you don't read the have anything in the bank. Spiritually, you're empty. The best thing you can put in and, listen, in the bank in your heart and your spirit. You fill that up with and, listen, you're rich. You're wealthy. He'll show you how to you need to prosper in. Then of course, the next one is sermon on each one of these-- but clarifies our direction. That is, there are times &quot;God, what should I do? Should I buy this Should I take this Shall I keep dating this Should I buy this In other words, you clear direction Then next of all, confirms or cautions When you ask other people careful who you're asking. Be careful that they're giving here's what most people do. They will do what they Well, that's not what you're looking for wisdom. The best place to go for You'd be surprised how very some areas when you're Then of course, it When you obey God, He hadn't been blessed before. And what happens? It builds your faith And when you think about there's nothing, there's no Here's what God said, Here's what God said, Here's how God warned Here's God's judgment because Absolutely keeps His Word. It increases our faith. And then of course, the In other words, God doesn't want you to be a Watch this carefully. He doesn't want you to be a He may allow you to fail in wants you to learn in He wants you to be. So, all of us have had failures, in life and rejection But if you remember Romans He turns it for good. And I look back in my own life things that you would think good can come out of this. Every single time God turns and just do what He says. And I want to give you one last desk, and I read it, day but most days. In fact, Look at this. When a man or a woman has the doing the work God gave him or courage in his or her of this world cannot destroy. So the question is this. Are you doing what God at this point in your life? Are you doing what God Or are you making choices the Word of God. Listen to what He said. He promises, He promises if you will make your way prosperous. You will have good success. No matter what goes on, He will willing to obey Him. Remembering what we said in wise to obey God, And that's my prayer for you, obey Him, meditating upon His walking in obedience, and awesome work in your life.