- Nothing beats this - And you can feel every I never felt that before. - I never felt that before either. - You can feel your blood. - Yeah, feel the blood circulating. - Circulating. (upbeat music) - [Josh] Here I am as a kid. Now I'm a washed up pro snowboarder, dad, and curious food nerd, I'm Josh Rosen. Food and adventure have led me to some of the most interesting places. So we're off on a mission to source the freshest through the lens of the locals. And each adventure ends with a feast. This is &quot;Dirt.&quot; Now I can see why they a place where Samurai warriors warmed from the lava of its 70 volcanoes, a land where giant satsumas grow and warm currents shape its coastline. An island with such that it's inspired Murakami, Yoko Ono and &quot;The Legend of Zelda.&quot; We're in Japan and we've made Japan has four main islands. Kyushu is the one furthest south, and we're beginning our trip Once home to futile lords it's now a modern metropolis in Japan, a city of food lovers. Tonight, we're meeting our chef with an ancient Japanese tradition. - I feel like I can almost (Kazuma laughing) - [Josh] Tea ceremonies like in Japan for over a thousand years, and dessert is always included. - Holy (censored), excuse me. We've just come to Kyushu. Tell me about where we are right now. (Kazuma speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] Close proximity to to a chef, and we're lucky to call Kazuma our chef for this episode. He has three restaurants in the city and two are in this building. In the front, a gyoza complete with rock and roll (laid back music) Hidden in the back is showcasing Kazuma's French trained cooking and where we will return Fukuoka is obsessed with food. Only Tokyo has more - So we eat? Let's go. - [Josh] And Kazuma is going to show us, just how food obsessed his town is. (Kazuma speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] Every night, called Yatai pop up on And Fukuoka has more food stalls than the rest of Japan combined. When there's only room for 10 customers, snagging a seat can be - This the one? - Hai. - [Josh] The first rule, make friends with everyone in your yatai. My old friend and translator, Rip Zinger, always makes this part easy. And our wonderful server who for 50 years made us feel right at home. - Let's eat. - [Josh] Most stalls serve oden, which is basically a pot of different fish cakes and vegetables. You get the picture. When the clock strikes 12, these temporary structures are rolled up and just like that, poof, they're gone. - That's perfect. - [Josh] But we're not done yet. For our nightcap, Hakata and ultra thin noodles In a country obsessed with food, we may have landed in the of them all, feeling full We'll see you at the end Gallon of water and then off to bed. (relaxing music) Kyushu is known as the land of farmers. Just outside the capital city, we are surrounded by rice and roadside shrines like this. - Hi! - Josh. (Yosuke speaking in Japanese) - [Speaker] Two clap hand in the pocket. Yeah. - Can you explain to us a (Yosuke speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] Shintoism worships Spirits exist in nature and harmony is achieved Watch any Miyazaki film - For the success of (Yosuke speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] Yosuke grows his root vegetables and community garden and this plot's right Today, we're harvesting (Yosuke speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] Yosuke's specialty is yama imo, a Japanese mountain yam with a light sweet but with a famously sticky (relaxing music) And I won't say no to some in a suspiciously perfect setting. (relaxing music continues) - Oh buddy, look at us! Actually same. - Oh, same! - [Josh] And because now I'm we're gonna take our to the local squid market for a snack from a few ladies unimpressed with our matching vests, and then find ourselves There are a few things as cool as the parking lot scene at (upbeat music) (Yosuke speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] And we are off, to to a place known as the end of the road. This is where we will begin our road trip through the rest of Kyushu. We've landed in Kagoshima and the airport has a foot onsen next to the curbside pickup. Kate approves. This region is known for like daily eruption type and a potent local liquor. It's 5:00 AM and we're to join a local sushi Meet Kaz, the sushi chef. His father was a sushi chef and now he's following in of the best restaurants in Kagoshima. For 150 years, this market has been bringing At this small restaurant next to the market, they serve You're gonna wanna eat than a few hours after it's Just kidding, but it - That is insane. That was maybe the most delicious piece of fish I've ever had in my life. - Many sushi chef, they want - Mm. - In the restaurant, many - And why can we only get it here? (Kazuki speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] Let me jump in here. The black current is a powerful that pushes water and plankton A lot of that plankton into Kagoshima Bay, creating a feeding frenzy for small fish, making them extra fatty And now we get to eat these in Kaz's restaurant. Cue the 80s porno music. (relaxing music) Wowee, and now I am spent. (Kazuki speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] Goodnight Kaz, and thank you. Today, we're on a quest to or one part of it. Ever wonder where those that are on your teriyaki Brussels sprouts at a Japanese restaurant? Well that's Katsuobushi, (pleasant music) Introducing our guide for (Agemura speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] Our first stop, Makurazaki port where the process begins. This dock receives 50,000 Shipments like this come in daily. (Agemura speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] The tuna are sorted and delivered to the 70 Accidentally invented by the katsuobushi process has been perfected and this factory has First, the fish are then into the smoker. Once cooled, they're coated Then more rounds of to remove all the moisture from the fish. Finally, the fish are shaped with a sander and inoculated with a special mold and left in a climate controlled room. And even this process is Three to six months later and whew, there you have it, people. A finished katsuobushi. - [Speaker 2] Wow! - [Josh] I'll never take for granted ever again. (poppy music) - [Photographer] Okay, smile. - [Josh] Volcanic hot to approximately 131 degrees. Sand bathing is a wellness practice that dates back hundreds of years. This slightly uncomfortable to relax and release toxins. Rip and I indulged and overheat. - I mean, like if you're gonna bury me, like please do it this way. - Sand bath. (poppy music) Yeah, right there on the right side. - [Josh] Now that we are fully detoxified, we're headed across town to retoxify in the small coastal There we go. Thanks to the volcanoes in Kagoshima, the soil is full of ash. Not great for rice harvesting, but sweet potatoes are a different story. (Takafumi speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] I guess you could say, Takafumi and his family are in but you know how it goes. First comes starch, then comes liquor. - Oh wow! It hits. - [Josh] His family specializes in Shochu, a Japanese liquor made from and Takafumi is the head distiller. Shochu was first distilled and his family run business as one of the many local distilleries Shochu can be distilled but in Kagoshima, the Crushed and put into giant Takafumi uses a hundred and minimal filtration. - Koji room. (Takafumi speaking in Japanese) (laid back music) It's like, apples. It's spice. You can smell. It's getting more refined. Someday I will drink you What? Did I earn like, one shot yet? - [Josh] He sources local sweet potatoes of all different colors and each color holds a unique flavor. He then tweaks his distillation process to highlight the unique He's a Shochu mad scientist of sorts. - Here we go. It's party time. Kanpai. (laid back music) It's beautiful. (laid back music continues) - [Josh] If Fukuoka is a city of foodies, Kagoshima is a city of ingredients. It's not the end of the Only one way to go from (Tajima speaking in Japanese) (Tajima speaking in Japanese) - [Rip] I don't know how Maybe God took the chicken with him, or God followed the - What came first, the God or the chicken? (Tajima speaking in Japanese) - Sh, sh, shhh. (Tajima speaking in Japanese) - It's not every day you with the owner of a tranquil spa resort. But I feel like I would with this guy. (everyone laughing) (laid back music) Just lightly cooked on the outside, and the texture is almost (Tajima speaking in Japanese) - Too much? - [Josh] A little R&amp;R at a utopian lodge in the mountains was just - Thank you for having us. - [Josh] That's nice. We're crossing over to the original honeymoon Now, it's more known for its surf scene. (poppy music) It's a chilly 40 degrees out, but the water is a comfortable 70. And the swell, well, just about perfect, thanks to, you guessed it, the black current that (poppy music continues) In 92, during the Miyazaki Pro event, Typhoon Orchid delivered a 15 meter swell. Pro surfer Tom Curren paddled out and caught what was then in the history of surfing in Japan. It put Miyazaki and the (poppy music continues) I stand by my words earlier, nothing cooler than the Love it here. (poppy music continues) We've arrived at a homemade oasis with a French wood-burning And this is Hiroko who recently left Tokyo to pursue her passion in Miyazaki, a land where dreamers can exist. Her words, not mine, but I agree. Hitohi means fire. She grows and grinds her own barley and uses local ingredients. (poppy music continues) In a country steeped in food traditions, bread is relatively new, and makes what she wants. Damn, it's so good. (poppy music continues) (Hiroko speaking in Japanese) (poppy music continues) - [Josh] Up next, the and the ingredient Miyazaki is famous for. In the world of Wagyu, Kuroge or Japanese black beef is king. - Hey! - Josh. - Nice to meet you. - [Josh] This is beautiful! Can you tell us about your (Yasaki speaking in Japanese) - Does this one have a name? - Name? Koba. - Koba? - Koba. I think Koba and - [Josh] Mr. Yasaki from happy, healthy cows. So he sets his free on his grass pastures, complete with an ocean view. Yeah, lucky cows. And the result, lean grass fed - How do you explain to the of beef is different, but still very good? (Yasaki speaking in Japanese) (laid back music) - [Josh] Now obviously as a I have to try a piece of it raw. - That is unbelievable. That's like the cleanest meat (Yasaki speaking in Japanese) (laid back music) - [Josh] A little Japanese with an adorable little camper. What are we shooting, a hug (upbeat music) Honk honk, beep beep. Off we go. Through the mountain range that seems to be showering some form of over the river and through (upbeat music continues) We've reached the center of Kyushu, the city perched on a calm bay, a place said to hold the We're miles off shore, in the Araki sea with a third generation farmer and his 22-year-old son to harvest Nori, or what the locals call ocean moss. And it just so happens with the hundred day harvest. Before it ends as the crunchy it starts as this, red algae. Slurp. Hey mom! - You look fabulous! - Do you see that boat, mom? So it pulls the Nori up and then gets dipped into that of all of the bugs and holds But I just wanted to just quickly say hi and show you what we were doing, and then I gotta get back to it. Love you. Ooh. It's like nothing you've (relaxing music) - We've just gotten off the Nori boat and he's extracting all the Nori that we've just harvested into this truck. And then we're gonna take it and see the whole process (relaxing music continues) - [Josh] A mile from the dock, and satsuma groves, the and then this futuristic machine with fresh mountain spring and laying it onto sheets. It's something outta &quot;The Jetsons.&quot; - So these are sponges and and extracting all the before they go into the drying rack. It's like natural and to make this beautiful thing. (relaxing music continues) Oh! Still warm. Yum. - [Josh] he final step, through every sheet with tweezers to remove imperfections while Adorable. (relaxing music continues) But wait, homemade with the Nori right off the belt. What an immersive and (relaxing music) - Hey! - What's up, man? Hey! Howdy! Hey. (laughs) Hi. (relaxing music continues) Cheers, chef. Nice slicing me off a slice there. - [Josh] A week on the island of Kyushu and our coolers are full, but our hearts and minds are fuller. Damn, that was epic. - You make cocktail today? - Ah, yeah. (relaxing music continues) - Sorry, chef. Made a mess. - [Josh] Yosuke taught us from the soil and by eating them, humans can also become Holy cow. Holy like, crazy man. (relaxing music continues) That looks incredible right there. And like the vegetables in the soil or the fish in the sea, the Kyushu people have absorbed memories from their ancestors, carrying and cultural roots of their past. Wow. (Kaz speaking in Japanese) - [Josh] It's like that, It's got a meaty flavor. Tender, light. Oh. (laughs) They're so good. That's really nice. That looks incredible right there. - [Josh] From the powerful to the healing onsens we've now seen how the spirits in nature move through everything, the food, the waves, and even us. - Arigato. All right, all right, Don't worry. We're done here. All right. All right, bye. - [Speaker 4] Bye. (relaxing music) - [Josh] Everything that how I do things A little slower. I don't get why it's It's like, it's got a salty (Josh speaking indistinctly) (relaxing music)