Chris Anderson: Elon Musk, How are you? Elon Musk: Good. How are you? CA: We're here at the Texas Gigafactory It's been pretty crazy out there. Thank you so much I would love you to help us, I don't know, 10, 20, And help us try to picture to build a future that's worth The last time you spoke at TED, you said that that was really You know, you can talk about lots of other but fundamentally, you want and not think that it sucks. EM: Yeah, absolutely. I think in general, you know, there's a lot of discussion of like, And a lot of people are sad and they're ... Pessimistic. And I think ... this is ... This is not great. I mean, we really want and look forward to the future. We want to be excited And life cannot simply be about sort of, solving one miserable CA: So if you look forward 30 years, has been labeled by scientists as this, kind of, almost like this There's a consensus of scientists, who believe that if we haven't or offset them completely by 2050, effectively we're inviting Do you believe there is a pathway And what would it look like? EM: Yeah, so I am not one which may surprise you. I actually think we're on a good path. But at the same time, I want to caution against complacency. So, so long as we are not complacent, as long as we have a high sense of urgency about moving towards then I think things will be fine. So I can't emphasize that enough, as long as we push hard the future is going to be great. Don't worry about it. I mean, worry about it, but if you worry about it, ironically, So, like, there are three elements One is of sustainable energy generation, There's also hydro, geothermal, I'm actually pro-nuclear. I think nuclear is fine. But it's going to be primarily as the primary generators of energy. The second part is you need batteries because the sun the wind doesn't blow all the time. So it's a lot of stationary battery packs. And then you need electric transport. So electric cars, electric planes, boats. And then ultimately, it's not really possible but you can make using sustainable energy. So ultimately, we can have a fully And it's those three things: solar/wind, stationary So then what are the limiting The limiting factor really will be So that's going to really be And then whatever the slowest element of the whole lithium-ion from mining and the many steps of refining to ultimately creating a battery cell and putting it into a pack, that will be the limiting factor CA: All right, so we need to talk because the key thing like, there seems to be that is kind of amazing and alarming. You have said that you have calculated that the amount of battery production is 300 terawatt hours of batteries. That's the end goal? EM: Very rough numbers, and I certainly would invite others because they may arrive But in order to transition, not just but also heating and transport, which roughly triples the amount it amounts to approximately 300 terawatt CA: So we need to give people I mean, here we are at the Gigafactory. You know, this is one of the biggest What I've read, and tell me is that the goal here is to eventually of batteries here a year eventually. EM: We will probably do more than that, but yes, hopefully we get there CA: Right. But I mean, that is one -- EM: 0.1 terrawat hours. CA: But that's still 1/100 How much of the rest of that 100 let's say, between now and 2030, 2040, when we really need to see EM: I mean, these are just guesses. So please, people shouldn't It's not like this is like some -- What tends to happen you know, best guess and then people, in five years, there'll be some jerk &quot;Elon said this would happen, He's a liar and a fool.&quot; It's very annoying when that happens. So these are just guesses, CA: Right. EM: I think Tesla probably ends up Roughly. CA: Let's say 2050 we have this amazing, you know, made up of, you know, some mixture you talked about. That same grid probably really low-cost energy, isn't it, compared with now. And I'm curious about like, are people entitled to get about the possibilities of that world? EM: People should be optimistic Humanity will solve sustainable energy. It will happen if we, you know, the future is bright and good And then it will be possible to also use It takes a lot of energy to pull because in putting it in the atmosphere So now, you know, obviously you need to use a lot of energy. But if you've got a lot of sustainable you can actually sequester carbon. So you can reverse the CO2 parts And also you can really have Earth is mostly water. We should call Earth "Water." It's 70 percent water by surface area. Now most of that's seawater, but it's like we just happen to be CA: And with energy, EM: Yes. CA: Irrigating water EM: At very low cost. Things will be good. CA: Things will be good. And also, there's other benefits where the air is cleaner -- EM: Yes, exactly. Because, like, when you burn fossil fuels, there's all these side reactions and toxic gases of various kinds. And sort of little particulates Like, there's all sorts that will go away. And the sky will be cleaner and quieter. The future's going to be good. CA: I want us to switch now to think But the segue there, you mentioned how annoying it is for bad predictions in the past. So I'm possibly going to be annoying now, but I'm curious about your timelines and how come some things are so amazingly So when it comes to predicting sales you've kind of been amazing, I think in 2014 when Tesla you said, &quot;2020, I think we will do EM: Yeah, we did CA: You did almost exactly half a million. You were scoffed in 2014 with the Model T, had come close You were scoffed, and you actually and then 510,000 or whatever produced. But five years ago, I asked you about full self-driving, and you said, "Yeah, this very year, I'm confident that we will have a car without any intervention.&quot; EM: Yeah, I don't want to blow your mind, CA: (Laughs) What's the difference between those two? Why has full self-driving in particular EM: I mean, the thing that really got me, and I think it's going to get is that there are just so many where you think you've got the problem, have a handle on the problem, and then it, no, turns out Because if you were to plot the progress, the progress looks like a log curve. So it's like a series of log curves. So most people don't know CA: Show the shape with your hands. EM: It goes up you know, and then it starts tailing off and you start getting diminishing returns. And you're like, uh oh, it was trending up and now and you start getting to these, where you don't realize And then it happens again. And ultimately... These things, you know, but in order to solve you actually have to solve real-world AI. Because what are the road networks They're designed to work and with vision, our eyes. And so in order to make it you basically need to solve Because we need cameras and silicon neural nets in order to have self-driving work for a system that was designed You know, I guess it's sort of, like, quite obvious that the only way is to solve real world AI CA: What do you feel Do you think you have an architecture now where there is a chance for the logarithmic curve EM: Well I mean, admittedly but I actually am confident That we will exceed -- The probability of an accident, at what point do you exceed I think we will exceed that this year. CA: What are you seeing behind the scenes EM: We're almost at the point unified vector space. In the beginning, we were trying on individual images. But if you get one image out of a video, it's actually quite hard to see But if you look at a video segment that ambiguity resolves. So the first thing we had to do so they're synchronized, so that all the frames and labeled simultaneously by one person, because we still need human labeling. So at least they're not labeled in different ways. So it's sort of a surround picture. Then a very important part So that you're looking at surround video, and you're labeling surround video. And this is actually quite difficult to do We had to write our own labeling tools and then create auto labeling, create auto labeling software to amplify because it's quite hard to label. In the beginning, to label a 10-second video clip. This is not scalable. So basically what you have to have and that surround video has to be with humans just being editors and making slight corrections and then feeding back those corrections so you get this flywheel eventually where the auto labeler and with high accuracy, automatically label the video CA: What you're saying is ... the result of this is that you're of the actual objects It knows what they are, and it knows how fast they are moving. And the remaining task is to predict what the quirky behaviors are that when a pedestrian is walking that maybe that smaller pedestrian or things like that. You have to build into it EM: You basically need to have So what I mean by that is ... Memory can't be infinite, because it's using up a lot So you have to say how much It's very common So if you talk about say, where you saw the pedestrian start then they're occluded by the truck. You would know intuitively, OK, that pedestrian is going to pop out CA: A computer doesn't know it. EM: You need to slow down. CA: A skeptic is going to say you've kind of said, well, no this is the year, we're confident that it will be there like it's always been about that far away. But we've got a new architecture now, you're seeing enough improvement to make you not certain, that, by the end of this year, what in most, not in every city, but in many cities and circumstances, basically the car will be able safer than a human. EM: Yes. I mean, the car currently most of the time with no interventions. So it's not like ... And we have over 100,000 people in our full self-driving beta program. So you can look at the videos CA: I do. And some of them are great, I mean, occasionally and scare the hell out of people. EM: It's still a beta. CA: But you're behind the scenes, you're seeing enough improvement to believe that a this-year EM: Yes, that's what it seems like. I mean, we could be here like, well, another year went by, But I think this is the year. CA: And so in general, I mean it sounds like that if you predict that something actually what we should imagine or it's like two-x or three-x, Some things, I guess, are fundamentally harder Is there an element that you actually deliberately make to drive people to be ambitious? Without that, nothing gets done? EM: Well, I generally believe, that we want to set the most aggressive Because there's sort of like for schedules, where it's not going to be less than that. It's very rare But as far as our predictions what tends to happen in the media is that they will report and ignore all the right ones. Or, you know, when writing I've had a long career If you list my sins, I sound But if you put those it makes much more sense, you know? So essentially like, the more mistakes Which, if you sum up those mistakes, will sound like I'm the worst But for example, for Tesla vehicle growth, I said I think we'd do 50 percent, CA: Yes. EM: But they don't mention that one. So, I mean, I'm not sure what my exact They're more optimistic than pessimistic, Some of them are exceeded but they do come true. It's very rare that they do not come true. It's sort of like, you know, if there's some radical the point is not but that it happened at all. That's the more important part. CA: So it feels like seeing the progress on understanding, the Tesla AI understanding led to a kind of, an aha moment at Tesla. Because you really surprised people probably the most important going on at Tesla this year EM: Yes. CA: Many companies out there they've been working on them for years. And so far no one has really cracked it. There's no mass adoption There are some in manufacturing, no one's kind of, really cracked it. Is it something that happened in the development of full self-driving &quot;You know what, we could do EM: Yeah, exactly. So, you know, it took me a while that in order to solve self-driving, you really needed to solve real-world AI. And at the point of which you solve which is really a robot on four wheels, you can then generalize that The two hard parts I think -- like obviously companies have shown that it's possible sometimes alarming robots. CA: Right. EM: You know, so from a sensors it's certainly been demonstrated by many that it's possible to make The things that are currently missing for the robot to navigate the real world without being explicitly instructed. So the missing things are basically and scaling up manufacturing. Those are two things And so then we basically just need and sensors that are needed People have no idea, CA: So let's dig into exactly that. I mean, in one way, it's actually because instead of an object which if it gets it wrong, This is an object that's engineered three or four or five miles an hour. And so a mistake, There might be embarrassment at stake. EM: So long as the AI doesn't take it over CA: Right. (Laughter) So talk about -- I think the first applications are probably going to be manufacturing, but eventually the vision is to have If you had a robot that really understood and knew where every object or was supposed to be, and could recognize all those objects, I mean, that's kind of amazing, isn't it? Like the kind of thing would be what? Like, tidy up? EM: Yeah, absolutely. Make dinner, I guess, mow the lawn. CA: Take a cup of tea to grandma EM: Exactly. Take care CA: It could obviously recognize It could play catch with your kids. EM: Yes. I mean, obviously, this doesn't become a dystopian situation. I think one of the things is to have a localized that cannot be updated over the air. Where if you, for example, were to say, if anyone said that, then the robot would stop, And that's not updatable remotely. I think it's going to be important CA: Yeah, that sounds wise. EM: And I do think there should be I've said that for many years. I don't love being regulated, but I think this is an important CA: Let's come back to that. But I don't think many people the notion of, you know, a robot at home. I mean, at the start Bill Gates said there's going to be And people at the time said, yeah, Do you think there will be basically like a robot in most homes, and people will love them You'll have your own butler basically. EM: Yeah, you'll have your sort of CA: I mean, how much of a buddy? How many applications have you thought, you know, can you have EM: It's probably inevitable. I mean, I did promise the internet We could make a robot catgirl. CA: Be careful what (Laughter) EM: So, yeah, I guess it'll be CA: What sort of timeline of the first models EM: Well, you know, the first units are for jobs that are dangerous, and things that people don't want to do. And, you know, I think we'll have like sometime this year. We might have something useful next year, but I think quite likely And then we'll see of the usefulness and decrease in cost CA: Initially just selling to businesses, or when do you picture where you can buy your parents one EM: I'd say in less than ten years. CA: Help me on the economics of this. So what do you picture the cost EM: Well, I think the cost is actually Like less than a car. Initially, things will be expensive at low production volume. The complexity and cost of a car So I would expect that it's going or at least equivalent to a cheap car. CA: So even if it starts at 50k, it's down to 20k or lower or whatever. And maybe for home But think about the economics of this. If you can replace a $30,000, $40,000-a-year worker, which you have to pay every year, with a one-time payment of $25,000 for a robot that can work longer hours, a pretty rapid replacement How worried should EM: I wouldn't worry about the sort of, I think we're actually going to have, a massive shortage of labor. So I think we will have ... Not people out of work, but actually still a shortage But this really will be Any goods and services will be available It'll be so cheap to have goods CA: I'm presuming it should be possible that can't profitably be made now courtesy of legions of robots. EM: Yeah. It will be a world of abundance. The only scarcity is that which we decide to create CA: OK. So AI is allowing us to imagine that will create this abundance. What are you most worried EM: Well, like I said, what might be termed the age of abundance. Other people have used this word, and that this is my prediction: it will be an age of abundance But I guess there's ... The dangers would be or digital superintelligence decouples and goes in the direction Whatever direction it might go. You know, that's sort of is to try to more tightly couple to digital superintelligence. And also along the way solve a lot and that kind of thing. So even if it doesn't succeed I think it will succeed in the goal CA: So the spirit there is that are so vastly intelligent, so that we ourselves can have But that doesn't seem to avoid turn ugly in unintended ways. EM: I think it's a risk, I agree. I'm not saying that I have I'm just saying like maybe one of the things for ensuring that the future is to more tightly couple the collective human world The issue that we face here if you think about it. The computers are And when we die, we have, You know, all of our text messages And it's quite eerie actually, when someone dies but everything But you say like, what's the limitation? What is it that inhibits It's the data rate. When you communicate, you're moving your thumbs very slowly. So you're like moving at a rate that's maybe 10 bits per second, And computers are communicating CA: Have you seen evidence that you've got a richer, sort of, between like external than has been possible before? EM: Yeah. I mean, the fundamental principles sort of doing read-write on neurons have been demonstrated for decades. So it's not like the concept is new. The problem is that there is that you can go and buy. So it's all sort of, in research labs. And it's like some cords And it's quite gruesome, There's no good product and is high-bandwidth and safe and something actually that you could buy But the way to think is kind of like a Fitbit That's where we take out about the size of a quarter, replace that with what, in many ways really is very much like or some kind of smart watch thing. But with tiny, tiny wires, very, very tiny wires. Wires so tiny, it's hard to even see them. And it's very important so that when they're implanted, CA: How far are you from putting EM: Well, we have put in to aspirationally do the first CA: The first uses will be of different kinds. But rolling the clock forward and imagining when people for their own enhancement, let's say, and for the enhancement of the world, how clear are you in your mind as to what it will feel like EM: Well, I do want to emphasize And so it really will be anything approximating that allows for AI-human symbiosis. For many years, we will just be solving For probably a decade. This is not something it will have this incredible It's going to be, like I said, at least a decade of really and spinal injuries. And really, I think you can solve including severe depression, potentially schizophrenia, like, a lot of things that cause Restoring memory in older people. CA: If you can pull that off, EM: Absolutely. CA: Please hurry. (Laughs) EM: I mean, the emails that we get I mean, they'll send us where someone was sort of, and they had an accident on a motorcycle and someone who's 25, you know, And this is something we could fix. CA: But you have said that AI is one and that Neuralink may be one of the ways where we can keep abreast of it. EM: Yeah, there's the short-term thing, which I think is helpful on an individual And then the long-term thing is an attempt to address the civilizational risk of AI by bringing digital intelligence and biological intelligence I mean, if you think of how there are really two layers to the brain. There's the limbic system and the cortex. You've got the kind of, it's kind of like the fun part, really. CA: It's where most of Twitter EM: I think Tim Urban said, we're like somebody, you know, You know, so we're like, that's our cortex. But we still have a lot Which we then try to rationalize It's something more important than that. But it's often just really We're just monkeys with a computer But even though the cortex or the intelligent part of the brain, the thinking part of the brain, I've not yet met anyone or their cortex. They're quite happy having both. Everyone wants both parts of their brain. And people really want their which are really the tertiary, It's just that it's ... Like the bandwidth, the rate of communication And it's just a very tiny straw And we want to make that tiny And I'm definitely not saying Or this is you know, it's something that might be helpful. And worst-case scenario, I think we solve spinal injury issues, CA: Best-case scenario, we may discover new you've spoken of, in a way, full memory and much faster All these things. It's very cool. If AI were to take down Earth, Let's shift our attention to space. We spoke last time at TED and you had just demonstrated that Since then, you've gone on to build which kind of changes the rules Tell us about Starship. EM: Starship is extremely fundamental. So the holy grail of rocketry is full and rapid reusability. This has never been achieved. The closest that anything has come where we are able to recover which is probably about 60 percent of the whole launch, maybe 70 percent. And we've now done that So with Starship, we will be Or at least that's the goal. CA: Right. EM: And moreover, that it can be immediately re-flown. Whereas with Falcon 9, we still need to the booster and But with Starship, the design goal So you just refill And this is gigantic. Just as it would be CA: And the main design is to basically take plus a bunch of things So, first of all, talk about that piece. What is your latest timeline? One, for the first time, presumably without people, Two, with people. Three, there's sort of, OK, 100 people at a time, let's go. EM: Sure. And just to put the cost the expected cost of Starship, putting 100 tons into orbit, is significantly less or what it did cost to put our tiny Just as the cost of flying is less than the cost of a small airplane. You know, a small airplane So it's really pretty mind-boggling way less than the small thing. So it doesn't use exotic propellants or things that are difficult It uses methane as fuel, and it's primarily oxygen, And Mars has a CO2 atmosphere which is CO2 plus H2O, and O2, oxygen, on Mars. CA: Presumably, one of the first tasks that can create the fuel EM: Yes. And actually, it's mostly because it's 78 percent oxygen, But the fuel is a simple fuel And in many other parts So basically ... And it's all propulsive landing, nothing thrown away. It has a heat shield that's capable We can even potentially go to Venus. but you don't want to go there. (Laughs) Venus is hell, almost literally. But you could ... It's a generalized method of transport because the point at which you can then travel to the asteroid belt and to the moons of Jupiter and Saturn and ultimately anywhere CA: But your main focus and SpaceX's main focus is still Mars. That is the mission. That is where most of the effort will go? Or are you actually imagining even in the coming, you know, the first decade or so of uses of this. Where we could go, in the solar system to explore, perhaps NASA wants to use EM: Yeah, NASA is planning to use to return people to the moon. And so we're very honored that NASA But I'm saying it is a generalized -- it's a general solution to getting anywhere It's not suitable for going but it is a general solution for transport CA: Before it can do any of that, it's got to demonstrate it can get into What's your latest advice EM: It's looking promising for us in a few months. So we're actually integrating -- will be integrating the engines for the first orbital flight And the launch complex So assuming we get regulatory approval, I think we could have an orbital CA: And a radical new technology like this presumably there is real risk EM: Oh, 100 percent, yeah. The joke I make all the time Success is not guaranteed, CA: But the last I saw on your timeline, you've slightly put back the expected date to put the first human on Mars EM: Yeah, I mean, so let's see. I mean, we have built a production so we're making a lot CA: How many are you planning EM: Well, we're currently expecting roughly every, well, initially, and then hopefully by the end So it's giant rockets, and a lot of them. Just talking in terms in order to create I think you will need something And we just need a Helen of Sparta, CA: This is not in most EM: The planet that launched 1,000 ships. CA: That's nice. But this is not in most people's heads, this picture that you have in your mind. There's basically a two-year window, you can only really fly to Mars You were picturing that during the 2030s, every couple of years, something like 1,000 Starships take off, each containing 100 or more people. That picture is just completely That sense of this armada EM: It'll be like &quot;Battlestar CA: And you think that it can spending maybe a couple hundred grand Is that price about where it has been? EM: Well, I think if you say like, what's required in order to get to build a self-sustaining city. And it's where you have an intersection of sets of people who want to go, because I think only a small percentage and can afford to go That intersection of sets, I think, needs to be a million people And so it's what can a million people because I think governments and people can take out loans. But I think at the point if moving to Mars costs are, then I think you know, and eventually have $100,000 We want to make it available It's very important to emphasize will not be luxurious. It will be dangerous, cramped, It's kind of like that Shackleton ad which I think is actually not real, It's sort of like, the sales pitch &quot;It's dangerous, it's cramped. You might not make it back. It's difficult, it's hard work.&quot; That's the sales pitch. CA: Right. But you will make history. EM: But it'll be glorious. CA: So on that kind of launch rate you could get your million people Whose city is it? Is it NASA's city, is it SpaceX's city? EM: It's the people of Mars' city. The reason for this, I mean, I think this is important for maximizing the probable lifespan of humanity Human civilization could come like a giant meteor or super volcanoes Or World War III, or you know, But the probable life span as we know it, which we should really view like a small candle in a vast darkness. That is what appears to be the case. We're in this vast darkness of space, and there's this little that's only really come about and it could just go out. CA: I think that's powerful, and I think a lot of people And the reason you need the million people is because there has to be to do everything that you need to survive. EM: Really, like the critical threshold for any reason, does the Mars City die out or not? And so we have to -- You know, people talk about like, the things that perhaps, you know, we talk about the Fermi paradox, Well maybe there are these that the aliens didn't pass, and so they eventually And one of the great filters So we want to pass that filter. And I'll be long-dead before before it happens. But I'd like to at least see us make CA: Given how tortured how much we're beating each other up, shouldn't there be discussions going on with everyone who is dreaming we've got a once to make some new rules here? Should someone be trying to figure out what it means for this EM: Well, I think ultimately this will be up to the people how they want to rethink society. Yeah there's certainly risk there. And hopefully the people of Mars and will not fight I mean, I have some recommendations, which people of Mars I would advocate for more not a representative democracy, and laws that are short enough Where it is harder to create laws CA: Coming back a bit nearer term, I'd love you to just talk a bit that Starship seems to have created. So given -- Suddenly we've got this ability So we've just launched which is an incredible thing. It's unbelievable. EM: Exquisite piece of technology. CA: Exquisite piece of technology. But people spent two years trying It's a three-ton telescope. EM: We can make it a lot easier CA: But let's ask a different question. Which is, how much more powerful based on using Starship, for example? EM: I mean, roughly, I'd say it's probably If you've got 100 tons which is roughly what we have. CA: And what about other exploration I mean, I'm you know -- EM: Europa is a big question mark. CA: Right, so there's an ocean there. And what you really want to do EM: Maybe there's like, cephalopod civilization That would be pretty interesting. CA: I mean, Elon, if you could take and we see pictures of this thing that would honestly be EM: Pretty wild, yeah. CA: What other possibilities Like, it feels like if you're going to they can only fly to Mars every two years. What are they doing the rest of the time? It feels like there's this that I don't think people EM: I don't know, we've certainly As you alluded to earlier, And then after we get to orbit, we have to really prove out and refine That'll take a moment. But I do think we will solve this. I'm highly confident CA: Do you ever wake up with the fear that there's going to be this EM: We've had many Hindenburg. Well, we've never had Hindenburg moments Big difference. We've blown up quite a few rockets. So there's a whole compilation online and others put together, it's showing rockets are hard. I mean, the sheer amount of energy So, you know, getting out We have a strong gravity And Mars, which is less than 40 percent, it's like, 37 percent of Earth's gravity and has a thin atmosphere. The ship alone can go all the way from the surface of Mars Whereas getting to Mars requires CA: So, Elon, as I think more that you're involved with, I keep seeing these synergies, to use a horrible word, between them. You know, for example, the robots you're building from Tesla doing some of the dangerous I mean, maybe there's a scenario doesn't need a million people, it needs half a million people And that's a possibility. Maybe The Boring Company could play a role helping create some of the subterranean EM: Yeah. CA: Back on planet Earth, it seems like a partnership could offer an unbelievable deal to a city to say, we will create for you populated by robo-taxis that will offer fast, low-cost You know, full self-driving may And in some cities, I suspect won't be done for a decade. EM: Some places are more CA: But today, today, you could put a 3D network EM: Oh, if it's just in a tunnel, CA: Exactly, full self-driving To me, there's amazing synergy there. With Starship, you know, Gwynne Shotwell talked you know, transport on planet Earth. EM: This is a real possibility. The fastest way to get if it's a long distance, is a rocket. It's basically an ICBM. CA: But it has to land -- Because it's an ICBM, because it's loud. So why not have a tunnel And Neuralink. I mean, if you going to go to Mars having a telepathic connection even if there's a time delay... EM: These are not intended But there certainly could be CA: Surely there is a growing argument that you should actually put into one company and just have a company that's exciting, and let a thousand flowers bloom. Have you been thinking about that? EM: I mean, it is tricky because Tesla and the investor base of Tesla and SpaceX and certainly Boring Company Boring Company and Neuralink CA: By comparison. EM: Yeah, Tesla's got 110,000 people. SpaceX I think is around 12,000 people. Boring Company and Neuralink So they're little, tiny companies, but they will probably They will get bigger in the future. It's not that easy to sort CA: Traditionally, you have said you wouldn't want it public, because public investors wouldn't support of going to Mars or whatever. EM: Yeah, making life multi-planetary is outside of the normal time horizon (Laughs) To say the least. CA: I think something's changed, though. What's changed is that Tesla is now and throws off so much cash that you actually could Just tell the public that x-billion will be diverted to the Mars mission. I suspect you'd have massive And it might unlock a lot EM: I would like to give the public access but I mean the thing that like, the overhead associated I mean, as a public company, It does occupy like, a fair bit of ... You know, time and effort CA: But you would still only have one and have more things going on. But instead of being EM: I'm actually not even on the Neuralink And I don't really attend We only have two a year, and I just stop by and chat for an hour. The board overhead for a public CA: I think some investors probably worry and they might be excited Anyway, I just woke up the other day thinking, just, there are so many ways And you know, of building a future that is worth might appeal to an awful lot of people. Elon, you are reported by Forbes the world's richest person. EM: That's not a sovereign. CA: (Laughs) EM: You know, I think it's fair to say that if somebody is like, the king they're wealthier than I am. CA: But it's just harder to measure -- So $300 billion. I mean, your net worth on any given day is rising or falling How insane is that? EM: It's bonkers, yeah. CA: I mean, how do you handle There aren't many people in the world EM: I actually don't think But the thing that is and that does make sleeping difficult is that, you know, every good hour or even minute of thinking about Tesla and SpaceX has such a big effect on the company that I really try to work you know, to the edge Because you know, probably will get where every high-quality is a million dollars impact on Tesla. Which is insane. I mean, the basic, you know, sort of $2 billion a week, it's sort of $300 million a day, You know, it's ... CA: If you can change that by five percent that's a pretty valuable hour. EM: I mean, there are many instances I was able to improve by $100 million CA: There are many other people out there who can't stand Like, they are hugely that an individual can have a billion or more EM: If they examine sort of -- I think there's some axiomatic flaws For sure, it would be very you know, billions of dollars a year But that is not the case. In fact, I don't even own I'm literally staying at friends' places. If I travel to the Bay Area, which is where most I basically rotate through I don't have a yacht, It's not as though my personal I mean, the one exception is a plane. But if I don't use the plane, CA: I mean, I personally think by really quite a deep Like, your attempts to solve have been as powerful as anyone else And I actually can't understand, personally, I can't understand the fact that you get all this criticism &quot;Oh, my God, he's so rich, When climate is their issue. Philanthropy is a topic Philanthropy is a hard topic. How do you think about that? EM: I think if you care instead of the perception of it, SpaceX, Tesla, Neuralink If you say philanthropy they are philanthropy. Tesla is accelerating sustainable energy. This is a love -- philanthropy. SpaceX is trying to ensure with a multiple-planet species. That is love of humanity. You know, Neuralink is trying to help and existential risk with AI. Love of humanity. Boring Company is trying to solve traffic, and that also is love of humanity. CA: How upsetting is it to you to hear this constant drumbeat of, &quot;Billionaires, my God, Like, do you just shrug that off or does it does it actually hurt? EM: I mean, at this point, CA: Elon, I'd like to, just pull the camera back You're a father now EM: Well, I mean, I'm trying because the birthrate on Earth is so low that we're facing civilizational collapse unless the birth rate returns CA: Yeah, you've talked about this a lot, that depopulation is a big problem, and people don't understand EM: Population collapse to the future of human civilization. And that is what is going on right now. CA: What drives you on a day-to-day EM: I guess, like, that there is a good future for humanity and that we're on a path to understanding the meaning of life. Why are we here, how did we get here? And in order to understand and all these fundamental questions, we must expand the scope Certainly it must not diminish or go out. Or we certainly won't understand this. I would say I've been motivated and just desire to think about the future and not be sad, you know? CA: And are you? Are you not sad? EM: I'm sometimes sad, but mostly I'm feeling I guess relatively optimistic There are certainly some big I think the population collapse that I wish more people would think about because the birth rate is far below at its current level. And there's obviously ... We need to take action which is being done. And we need to secure by being a multi-planet species. We need to address -- Essentially, it's important to take to address the existential risks CA: There's a whole who seem really sad about the future. What would you say to them? EM: Well, I think if you want the future Take action to make it good. And it will be. CA: Elon, thank you for all this time. That is a beautiful place to end. Thanks for all you're doing. EM: You're welcome.