Transcriber: Yingshi Huang Oh! It's on. Whoa! Hey, guys. How are you doing today? Stick with me. So I will just like to How many of you guys here think (Laugh) Okay. Whoa, whoa. Okay. Now, how many of you guys Yay! Okay, there's not effective. Okay, sure. Not by any measure. But I deluded In middle school, when I showed up to math class, My classmates, would open up their notebooks question, answers of questions and etc. My greatest mistake. In fact, my notebook was Like a daisy. Until one day around grade 9 or 10. Something struck me. It was It was a self realization moment, and And it was that I understood nothing. And that shook me down to my core. I was scared, and that fear I hated math. Oh. The reports. Oh. I couldn't be bothered. I was scared of even showing up to class. But at the same time, conceptually, Sort of like a faraway island. Because when it comes down to it, It's responsible for beautiful patterns So how was it that I was able to love math like this and yet hate doing it. My name is TJ, and today why mathematics shouldn't be a subject When it comes down to math. A student needs two skills You need time to process everything, It teaches us something to do the work, to do the practice. It's sort of like building You have to figure out where everything is because math is made up of a bundle of And you're going to have to figure out how But why do people. Why do In a study from one doctor, K Abdul Gafoor, He took his student body and decided to ask them to And what he found out was that 88% of as their least favorite subject because a lack of. And even when they had time, the moment they were done with the test So how do we fix this? How do we I believe every successful student needs off confidence and practice. Confidence I think, is one of the most important things you I would even argue that it's You could have all the mathematical You could be the smartest man alive. But if you're not even confident in it's all gone to waste. When I first Failure after Failure after and it took a lot of work But how do we be more confident? Throughout my journey, I've identified one and that was the environment. When you look at a confident student, They feel no pressure because they are And our environment shapes us. Look at your friends, the family, all those contribute to you because we subconsciously take and create our own self. whether you're alone or with family, the important thing is to be comfortable And also affirmations also helps. I was initially skeptical for it because I thought it was But what I've come to realize is just You deserve to be in the class. You You deserve that. Seven that A+ . Just saying that does wonders Let's talk practice. Practice My time management skills coupled help me at all. It was the bane of my existence, and I'm sure a lot of students in the because the hardest part of a practice It's getting started. Just overcoming that you do. That's the hardest part. Looking for the bare minimum step. Imagine for me, if you will. maybe watching YouTube Looking for the bare minimum step can Sometimes that might be pausing the As long as you think about the bare before you go It will slowly build up and then And furthermore, how we practice You might have heard some students say they practice four hours a day, And that's insane. I don't think we should judge people whether how smart they practice. When we practice, we should just repeat because we never get anywhere. But rather What we're not good at. We should look slowly, bit by bit. And furthermore, You don't need four hours in one sitting. Two hours, or maybe even Because if we sit too long and cram I guarantee you we're not going to In fact, it's so you don't (Laugh) I'm sure a lot of students can relate because it's how most of us Math is hard, and that's okay. We're all I'm not even sure where I'm going next, Because of all the chaos in the world, But math is one of the few things And for me, I'd say that's something as the Hungarian-American mathematician the only way to learn mathematics is