NICHOLS: In our last session about revelation, and one of those attributes that we talked about of revelation is the So we're going to spend time in our next two of revelation. Our first of these two sessions we're going inspiration. This word actually isn't a Biblical word, familiar with, it comes from 2 Timothy 3:16. And as we get to 2 Timothy 3:16, this is what &quot;All Scripture is breathed out by God, and correction, for training in righteousness, for every good work.&quot; So this word, inspired, and the doctrine of comes from many more texts than this, but something, it reminds us something right off down. It is the Word of God to us. Now this is what sets Scripture apart. This is what differentiates Scripture, this other views out there, from all other philosophies You know we talked a little bit in our last were around and prevalent in Paul's day. The philosophies of Plato, the ideas of Aristotle, there has been a desire to answer the big life. Who am I? Where did I come from? Where am I going? What is the meaning of all of this? And they're not just questions on a personal They're also questions on sort of the macro Where did all of this, as we look around and What is the purpose of it? Well, to answer those questions through the There was the mythological age, you know, to explain the world by using myth. And coming out of Homer's home city Miletus Thales. And so Thales changes or shifts from myth big questions; switches us over to philosophy, And then of course we have the coming of the era into the middle ages, we have the era authority. You couldn't help but see it even, it dominated and what would you see? You wouldn't see some skyscraper; you would And so that physical, that physical, archeological to how the church dominated the mental landscape It was the church that told you your place. Well, then we come into right? And the reformers take us back to Scripture, so now Scripture is our authority, but not to go. And so as we see the era of the Reformation, And with the Renaissance we have the beginnings philosophy. And this enlightenment period moves us into and through the 1700's and through the 1800's, the church, a shift away from Scripture as within our own head, and we began to stress and this was the modern age. Now, those who watch these things tell us we are entering into a new time, a new phase, And some of those beliefs of modernity that committed to, are seen to have crumbled a so much a firm commitment to science as the was, there's even a little bit of a suspicion in modernity. But whether it's modernity, or post-modernity that idea -- that the answers to the big questions That the answers to &quot;Who am I?&quot; and &quot;Why am those answers are not going to be found within Those answers aren't going to be discovered acumen and all of our abilities to try to Those answers come from above us. Those answers come from beyond us. Those answers come, in fact, from God. It is top down. That's difficult -- we'll just stick with this post-modernity thing is, we'll just stick for someone in the modern age to grasp: to In fact there was a professor at Harvard in his name was Joseph Henry Thayer, and in his book he was speaking of the Just a few years before, Benjamin Warfield, the great theologian there Seminary, Warfield had published an essay on the inspiration of Scripture, and Thayer and this is what he had to say about Warfield's &quot;But by reason of improved methods of philological moment, &quot;of progress in science,&quot; see, there's in science and discovery, of accumulating the theory of inspiration has come to occasion a little distress in thoughtful souls. It has become a yoke, which they, unlike their Now let's try to unpack that a little bit When he talks about improved study, he's talking about an enterprise of the 1800's that we call higher criticism. This started in Germany. The great evangelist Billy Sunday, who was up on the platform and do all kinds of things. He was a pro baseball player, so he was a But -- and this was in the 1910's, it was this, Billy Sunday would say, &quot;Turn hell upside Made in Germany.&quot; That's what Sunday would say. Now, it was the time of World War I, there coming out there in that, but what was he He was talking about higher criticism that had washed ashore in America from the 1880's controversy raged. And the theory of higher criticism started write the first five books of the Bible. Now, what's really going on there is not just Pentateuch claims to be, the books of Moses, books, the first five books, the Pentateuch, of a top-down revelation from God, but these working out of what the Israelite community to Him. The upshot of all of this challenge to Mosaic revelation but a human creation, just like And then it moved from Moses and the Pentateuch And so, Matthew is not by Matthew, Mark is not by John, these gospels are in fact the sort of ideas of Jesus and who He was, and And so this is what Thayer is talking about study.&quot; It is no longer tenable for us to hold to And then he says, &quot;Improved methods of science, This is something that's hard for us to see progress is such a fundamental commitment And one of the by-products of progress is So this is an ancient book. Does it really tell us how to live? Does it really tell us about human psychology Or is it in fact outdated and outmoded? And Thayer admits as much. He says, &quot;You know, in a previous age when there weren't such advances, and there wasn't easily bear the yoke of a word from God, but See? We now know better, and we can't bear this As we approach Scripture, we have a fundamental It's a question of commitment, a question Is this the Word of God or not? That's the fundamental question. Now, we have to nuance this because we think human book. We don't see the doctrine of inspiration as entered into a trance-like state and their eyes rolled in the back of their head and If only writing were that easy. We see that the Biblical author's personalities There are differences. John reads differently than Paul, Peter reads These are real human authors, so the Bible That's a true statement. It's not written in some mystical language, Well if you look at Hebrew you might think language that was spoken. And Greek might, it's all Greek to me, right? It might look mystical to you, too, but it the day. In fact there were sort of two major dialects There was the high Greek, the attic Greek that's the Greek of the philosophers, that's the writers. And then there was koine, a word that just which just means &quot;common,&quot; and that's the So it's a human book. It's written in ways that we can understand. But we must always say that while it is a So we need to avoid two extremes there. One is not acknowledging that it's a divine a great read, very insightful, might even think of it as God's Word, see? Sort of the secular view. There's a long history of that. Then there's the other side, that doesn't of the text. That again, sees these Biblical authors as We don't see that, either. So to start off, we need to balance these is sourced in God, its origin is God, it is instruments in the recording and writing down We see this a little bit more in another text right up there with 2 Timothy 3:16, is 2 Peter Here as we get to the end of Second Peter Peter again is differentiating Scripture from big questions. And so he says, &quot;We did not follow,&quot; in verse myths.&quot; There were plenty of those around in the first That's not what this is. Now this is from God. If we drop down to verse twenty-one, &quot;No prophecy Remember, here echoes of Paul from 1 Thessalonians not as the word of men, but you received it Peter's saying the same thing. It was never produced by the will of man, along by the Holy Spirit. You know a nice imagery there sometimes given the way the winds may carry a ship, or the waves may carry a ship, there of the human authorship, and Peter well There's a preserving there but these words are the words from God. So we start off with the doctrine of inspiration, down revelation. That that differentiates all of these other these different philosophical of trying to answer these questions, &quot;Who am I?&quot; &quot;Why am I here?&quot; &quot;What is the purpose of all of this?&quot; We see it, that Scripture is top down, not of 2 Timothy 3:16, and 2 Peter 1, we also We see it even more in Paul. You know, Paul will write it, whether he's to the Galatians, he doesn't say this, does &quot;You need to do this because I'm telling you He says, &quot;You need to do this because I speak In fact, he makes it clear that these are these are not his ideas. These are in fact the words of God. He is simply an apostle who speaks the Word We see it in the Old Testament. You trip over this phrase in the Old Testament, &quot;Thus says the Lord. Thus says the Lord.&quot; It's never the word of Malachi, it's the word we even see this differentiated in Matthew Christ does something the Old Testament prophets &quot;You have heard it said,&quot; and He quotes the you...&quot; No Biblical author ever claims that authority, They are always the mouthpiece of God. And so it's not just a proof text, it's woven If we are going to come to Scripture, if we to it, we are going to have to let it tell And what it tells us very clearly is it is Now, different people have tried different We could have what we call the liberal view; 1880's to the 1910's. This is probably seen best in a quote like the yoke of this inspiration anymore.&quot; But it was also differentiated or put out who pastored Riverside Cathedral in New York, his sermons were published in the New York He said, &quot;We have to distinguish the Shekinah The shrine is the book, and somewhere contained &quot;abiding truths.&quot; That's what's inspired. Not the very words, but these sort of general So we have the liberal view of inspiration, is that sort of nugget of truth that you can In the 1950's and 60's we have the theologian His Word when it is proclaimed to His people. So God hasn't spoken in His Word, He speaks In a nutshell, that amounts to saying the contains the Word of God. Well, against those various options, we have what we call the verbal Verbal tells us that it's the very words that And we'll see this in our next time together out. And plenary tells us that the whole thing of the gospel, or in terms of salvation, and of this subject or that subject, well then tells us the whole thing is inspired, and Well, here we are again without our GPS, so Are we going to follow these philosophies, to say, &quot;God has spoken, and He's given us That's the choice that's before us. We'll look at the implication of this doctrine session together, as we talk about inerrancy.