This is the Dinglun Flywheel Energy this is likely the biggest Flywheel Energy spin you around though. While its sheer and more people are turning to mechanical as the solution to large-scale energy woes. Why niche mechanical energy storage device? And lithium batteries and all the other energy I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. We took a spin at this topic almost four years flywheels since then. California-based Amber and as I just mentioned, China has brought But in case you aren't familiar, what what is a Flywheel Energy Storage System (or made by combining a dual-action electric can charge a FESS by using excess electricity it wants to keep spinning, meaning only a little when electrical energy is needed, the flywheel's will spin the generator's rotor, and voila in an electric vehicle. This makes for Flywheels have a unique edge in energy clearer as we dive into their perks. But here's the big question: why choose Understanding this is key to seeing why Flywheels are especially valuable for pairing variable output due to shifting conditions. in high winds and none when still, leading A major advantage of flywheels is their rotational they can store and release energy quickly, fluctuations. This inertia is crucial for grid don't provide constant output. While most power needs to carefully control frequency to deliver elsewhere), flywheels help with this by operating Though flywheels can spin at extremely their mechanical inertia primarily addresses partner for renewables. Their rotational speed can resulting in less energy loss to heat. Plus, their speeds makes them incredibly responsive. patching over grid dips and absorbing extra power Another FESS perk is its high round-trip electricity that can be retrieved. No system it transfers between mediums, and flywheels batteries. But as long as you're not storing can achieve an RTE of 90-95%. That's better which reach about 80%. This efficiency makes Flywheels offer other advantages, too. 30 years or more, and, unlike batteries, so they can handle tens of thousands of full require rare earth metals; the most advanced while not cheap at around $7 per pound, has ago and is expected to continue falling At this point, you might be wondering, I've hinted at some reasons why FESSs remain limited to a niche. And it's a big problem. Have and messages from companies you've never can help get to the source of the problem and I were getting our house constructed, and everything else you have to do with moving, promotional emails I was getting. I'm sure you've because companies sold my information to data some pretty shady people. Incogi can help with brokers delete our information, but it takes a gave them the legal right to work on my behalf, updates on your account for which data brokers have complied. It couldn't be easier. If you who has access to your personal information, give Incogni! Use code UNDECIDED at the link below and to all of you for supporting the channel. If you've been wondering how a spinning wheel to a stop, wonder no more--because it can't. the generator, air resistance on the wheel, and Some flywheels are built in a vacuum chamber to bearings to 'float' the wheel instead of letting law is unforgiving: even a perfectly lubricated, tons of inertia in a low-friction vacuum, will currents also slow the wheel, and these losses flywheels tend to last about 15 minutes, This also means flywheels have fast self-discharge losing about 5 to 20% of their energy per gone in under a day, so using flywheels Then there's cost. Flywheels are still quite Sure, you can have a functional FESS without or a high-tensile rotor. Just look at their use discussions, including my own. But for grid-scale specialized materials, precision machining, And surprisingly, the lowest-tech part of a the well. Flywheels are typically buried for a spinning up to 50,000 rpm, practically trying to you don't want chunks of flywheel--or that kind of weight and speed, it's it's still a risk that requires careful take up less real estate than chemical So, flywheels are highly effective in short but they come with their fair share cool-but-niche tech, so throw it back Not so fast. Despite these challenges, Let's start with the record-breaking the 30 MW Dinglun Flywheel Energy Storage Power China. For context, that's much smaller than but a full 10 MW above the previous The Dinglun project broke ground in July 2023 remarkably quick turnaround. It's equipped with grouped into sets of 10, with a total of 12 forming an array that connects to the power grid This system is pioneering a sort of is housed underground in a setup allowing Dinglun's operators to monitor clearer view, so workers can easily assess The point of the project is two-fold. First, China again, FESSs pair really well with wind energy shortfalls and intermittent zones like a buffer. That leads into Dinglun's second but if all goes well then we could see up around China to help all those Let's look at another record breaking flywheel. single flywheel for Moneypoint station in and with an output of 915 MW at its peak, Ireland and capable of providing 25% of these features also make it the single largest the country is enacting a multi-phase plan to dubbed Green Atlantic @ Moneypoint. Yes, Phase one of this plan is this weighs over 130 tons! It's a big 66 ton synchronous rotor condenser (a around 160 megawatt-hours in the rotating With the flywheel up and rolling just days the construction of a 1,400 MW offshore wind following phases will revolve around turning as well as the production and storage of green hydrogen's perennial status as a "any day now technology. But hey, at least they've installed and the flywheel is up and running. Let's get back to the FESS-tivities but on a signed a deal to supply the Gardner with nearly 26 MWh of energy storage using storage systems (BESS). FESS and BESS pair FESS is great for short-term, reactive storage, Torus has also developed a proprietary software demand response, and integration Apparently, it plays well with EV charging, but still nice to see as we move to smarter Torus and Gardner Group plan to begin in Q4 2024, aiming for completion these systems will be able to store and dispatch capacity. According to Torus, that's enough The exact facilities Torus's hybrid systems flywheels have been ideal for emergency power, spaces like data centers or hospitals. Gardner from malls and offices to tech centers and look of it. Maybe flywheels are widening their Let's end with a familiar face: We last checked in with them a few years ago when the company had recently deployed some FESS Plant as part of a solar array. As of 2023, so I'm guessing they're still rolling--and in this Amber Kinetics was also teaming up with Chinese solar installation. As of 2024 that solar find no mention of the flywheel system. That Since then, Amber Kinetics has expanded further, Philippines, and beyond. These aren't massive FESS Dinglun, but it's impressive to see just how many Amber Kinetics is also partnering to install a system at a residence in Sawyers the owners wanted a system that posed no fire blackouts in the area. Sounds like a job for install Amber Kinetics' flywheels above ground, found a cost-effective and reliable approach, Amber Kinetics has also expressed interest Infrastructure is a challenge on this it's tough to maintain anywhere. In rural high electricity costs and grid unreliability microgrids could make a real difference for it's just a stated goal for now, so we'll Are flywheels the ultimate solution to all so you know the answer is 'no.' But they're fluctuations--a role that's becoming more essential the grid. So, while flywheels may never be the they're a pragmatic supporting cast I expect to see many facilities following in the But what do you think? Do flywheels have a the comments and let me know and be sure TBD where we'll keep this conversation for your continued support and a big welcome best username). Keep your mind open, stay