In today's chess video, I'm going to share and traps in the Greco Gambit. By the way, I also have a surprise giveaway the end. Alright, we start with the king's pawn opening Knight to f3, knight c6, bishop c4, the Italian Piano game. Black is now ready to develop his knight and Anyway, we go for pawn to c3 so that we can Black plays knight f6 attacking on E4 and play d4 attacking the bishop. From here, black must take this pawn because Let's say he goes to b6 for example, then you have this brilliant move of queen to d5 attacking this knight. Even if he goes for bishop f2 check, we can move, we simply gobble up his knight. Therefore, in this position, black must take We take it back with the c pawn. And now if you look at this position, this but the problem is that his bishop is being A good move is to give a check like this. And now even if we play a natural move like because our knight is pinned so we cannot Well, this is how we enter into the Greco to gain an advantage in the future. Alright, it starts to get a little tricky As white, we will go for the short castle, Now black has a decision to make. Does he capture with the knight or does he What would you play? I am sure many of you are thinking of knight keep both your bishops. This looks quite natural since you keep the just like this. But let's see what has happened in the past. In this position, if we look at the data, knight c3 and as you can see, this move really So after knight takes on c3, pawn takes on is completely trapped. This bishop c3 move is actually the most common big mistake. As you can see, White is winning close to Eventhough white is 2 pawns down and our rook attacks against this black king. Just look at this king, he is out in the open We have a really good move like queen b3 attacking But after d5, black can somehow manage to We don't want that to happen. Therefore, in this position, the absolute The best thing about bishop a3 is that it castling. Let me show you some common lines and how The most obvious line could be bishop takes the knight, then rook takes with check. Black has to sacrifice his queen. Otherwise, if king f8, then rook f7 check. King g8 and rook d7 is a beautiful checkmate. Even if he goes this way, we can give a check Going back, after bishop a3, even if he does pawn to d5, we can simply move away our bishop He won't be able to castle because of this And even if he takes the rook, you need to all directions. Just maintain the pressure on his king and Going back, if he tries to block this dark his bishop with your rook and after a few end up grabbing a piece. Look, there could be many other possible moves, is always going to have the upper hand because than these black pieces which are going to Alright, so we just saw how white can absolutely But how should black play this? Well, in this position, black should not capture Instead he should capture with the bishop Now the point is that after pawn takes on Earlier, when he took with the knight first, by the pawn and he was forced to take it, Instead of taking this pawn right away, he by playing a move such as d5. It solidifies the center and attacks the bishop Also, this knight stays on this e file preventing After the bishop moves away, black can simply up with an extra pawn. Because of this defense by black, the classical often at the grandmaster level. Nevertheless, this could be a very useful level players because they would generally Now let's talk about the Giveaway organized I recently attended a masterclass by Viswanathan In his session, he analyzed some great games one of the best openings for white. It was a really insightful session and you Apart from Viswanathan Anand, Unacademy has Gujrathi, Praveen Thipsay and many more so 200 hours of new live content every month. You will find all the links in the description By the way, you can also win Unacademy's Chess puzzle. It is White's turn and you need to find the All you have to do is share your answers in with the correct answers will get 3 Months If you liked this, then you should watch this amazing opening tricks and traps in the Fajarowicz Well, don't forget to Like and Subscribe. And Join our Channel to become a member. Thanks for watching and see you in the next