In December 2022, $1,981 was the United States. A 7.4% increase from the The Covid pandemic, along inflation, drove up rent unprecedented levels. As the pandemic was going back into the housing really significant pressure In terms of what's already seeing those prices at a fairly rapid rate. Rents are going down now. We ended 2022 with four cuts. And then in January, first time since the great But while rent has begun to affordability still remains Americans. All you need is one illness. All you need is one more difficult. There's literally nowhere in is not burdened by their More than 19 million renters burdened, spending more housing costs. Evictions with the end of Covid-era There have been more than 2 March of 2020. Indeed, just ten states and Eviction Lab. In response, policies has gained We've already seen rent California, Oregon, in D.C., and New York City, as Minnesota. So I would say comeback. So can policy make rent more States? And if so, what Rent regulation refers to prices in cities or states. Generally, it comes in two stabilization. To me, they're basically the generation of rent control In New York City they do rent control and rent That's basically because stock there built before 47. Those are under true they fixed the level of But then the modern wave of typically allows more rent increases. In allowable increase in rent in local consumer price is lower. Today just seven states, Minnesota, New Jersey, New District of Columbia have the state or local level. Experts say that rent specifically target low beneficial. When I talk about targeted speaking about affordable low income housing tax households can qualify to property at a well below And those rents are set year. And so it's a very you're directing the aid need it. Tenants living with rent big role in their financial Thalia Da Costa, a New York rent-stabilized apartment, like firsthand. The problem with working in that you don't know when When Covid happened, I had coming from. Luckily, we help out with that, but I $75,000. Once I learned the stabilization, like it's a They protect us. They have to treat our So I feel really sorry for rent stabilized apartment your rent is going to go up Rent control could help by preventing unfair gentrification. This is where my grandmother This is where my mom moved school up the street. Rent stabilization keeps A socioeconomic mix is why There are people on There are $4 million homes was born on. I don't like neighborhoods that plague That's not New York. This isn't the first time have gained widespread After the massive economic War II, the Federal control on roughly 80% of and 1964. But over time, it was economists unanimously That sentiment mostly There's various surveys of showed that only 2% thought like New York and San positive impact on There's been other studies rent control has actually communities. Economists argue that rent developers from building only worsen the housing States. America already 3.8 million homes, price points, according to We have not invested as a of housing in a variety of different price points. We've instead relied on the And the private sector has that capital and the build those units. But the market and investors investment than some other kind of investment, they're Preventing healthy turnover also hurt marginalized If there's a rent place, you're really that's in that unit today And what does that mean for that neighborhood or want They're shut out because isn't available to build And who's the most growing It's people of color. Not only are we not doing actually hurting them by otherwise be general rental market. Our research has shown that actually leads to an affordable rental housing gentrification and inequality. Our study do consistent with landlords actively to get out of rent by substituting their of housing that overall income residents. So since I've lived here so who had lived here for were trying to get me out. I knew that they wanted to out so that they could do rent. My apartment was I had black mold, then I I found lead paint. My super does not listen to I knew exactly what they It was ignoring me. It was telling me I'm the problem out of all of their All it said to me is that apartment so that you can That's what they wanted. Bedford Holdings told CNBC allegations and have Costa's apartment. Perhaps the biggest flaw of that it may only be a short Housing has always been a It is a basic human need. And so people on the right supported various housing more housing. environment now where expedient short-term concerns that their control appears to be a it is a lot more hurts the very folks that In January 2023, several the federal government to rent prices. They suggested Agency to establish renter residing in properties backed mortgage properties, gouging protections and standards. They also Commission to issue new excessive rent increases as affects commerce. That is going to be Given that response and at a more local level, such But there are still other control that could help across America. The first to build more affordable That's the role of the government is to build more housing, because that's The private market cannot by the fact that we have so minimum wage. Tax incentives could not of affordable rental reason for landlords to There are opportunities at provide tax abatement, real owners that are willing to rents for a certain period of units. We've seen those and those can be successful Until supply catches up with programs can help fill the We really need to expand We're seeing long waiting country. In Los Angeles, reopened their waiting list years, they were expecting applicants, but only had We're at a sort of investment on that side help the folks at the ladder, and that would help Policy backed by proper burden for more than a rent across the country. It's so important to challenges are and where Everybody looks at rental but it's a diverse, large different income levels, it's so important not to big group, but really focus in need. And I think that conversations and our and the more targeted we think the more effective