What is your English level? Beginner, out! Today I am going to test your listening Hello, guys! I'm Kate and in this lesson we understand your level of English. But today you 15 questions divided in three different You will listen to the short recording, you will listen once again, and you will If you need more time you can pause the video, And please don't forget to let me know Now let's find out how good are your native speakers? Let's start the test. level the A level 1) What is comfort food? For most people, it's Eating it gives them a warm feeling. It's often Which sentence describes the idea of the text? B) Comfort food is easy to prepare. Let's listen once again. The correct answer is B) Listen to the conversation between two rabbits. farmer's garden. I went there Which sentence is correct? B) The rabbit lost his clothes C) The rabbit lost his shoes Let's listen once again. The correct answer is B) The rabbit Task number 3. Square the place where Mr Wilson had his shop. London. It was a small and quiet square. On each Which sentence is correct? Saxe-Couburg Square was the B) Saxe-Couburg Square was C) Saxe-Couburg Square was a small Let's listen once again. was a small square in a poor part of London I'm sorry you're disappointed, but didn't - Yeah, but Sarah's house is so much bigger and to share mine with Leah..It isn't fair! A)The girl is happy because B)The girl is disappointed because C)The girl is disappointed because Let's listen once again. because she hasn't got her own room. Pop's idea was big and brave. His idea was He had to write it down and draw pictures of it and it fit right there in the palm of her hand. A )Pop needs to write down B) Pop never writes down his ideas. Listen once again needs to write down his idea not to forget it. level. Please let me know if it was easy for Go on taking the test and I will explain Now we're going to get to the Task number 1. Let's listen. I suppose I'm fairly disciplined in my writing. I usually start work by about 8 o'clock. I work Which sentence is correct? B) The man usually starts writing at 8 o'clock Let's listen once again. usually starts writing at 8 o'clock 2)As winter slowly gives way to spring, on break out of their dens. And get ready for Which sentence correctly describes the text? A) In spring polar bear mothers break B) In spring polar bears sleep inside their dens. dens to swim in the sea. The correct answer is A) In spring polar bear Task number 3. Let's listen. shown that human appreciation of music may that it is remarkably ancient, and that studying us better understand how the brain works. A) Scientific research shows that B) Whales, birds and rats can dance to music of music for animals. The correct answer is A) Scientific research Task number 4. Let's listen. As you can see we set up your cubicle for liking. Yes, yes, thank you so much. A) The supervisor asked the B) The supervisor asked the C) The supervisor and the worker Let's listen once again. The correct answer is B) The supervisor Task number 5. Let's listen. saying " I've got myself into a bit of a scrape. I nothing, in fact, but I do need it." A) Man asked a person to give him some money was in a difficult situation needed to go to the doctor The correct answer is B) Man asked for help This is the end of the intermediate section. you have? If you have 4 or 5 correct answers, that's amazing! Keep going with the rest of Now it's time to move on to the advanced 1) That's around 400-billion-dollar-a-year mode to move fright. But about a half of the big running half full. If half of those tracks are the same amount of diesel, create the same full as we do completely full. A) Filling trucks' empty spaces will help B) Half full trucks can burn more amount C) Filling trucks' empty spaces will Let's listen once again. The correct answer is A) Filling trucks' empty spaces will help to reduce Task number 2. Let's listen. verification scam and this one's really tricky were tricked by the end of it. This one usually such as on Facebook, Marketplace, or Craigslist, number to be contacted. It may also be a voice It'll say Google voice verification text, and code to them. And if you do, even if you don't Which sentence best describes A) People who sell things online B) Scammers send fake email messages C) People shouldn't post their phone Let's listen once again. The correct answer is A) People who sell Task number 3. Let's listen. Year after year after year after year they're yet they're just a computer company. They're just to the same talent, the same agency, the same they seemed to have something different? A)Apple has more experienced B)Apple's approach to innovation is C)Apple is more innovative than other Let's listen once again. answer is C)Apple is more innovative than other Task number 4 In a recent report on bullying in the 20 years old reported that they had In studies conducted in the United States, 25% Which sentence is true according to the report? bullied at least once a week. old had been bullied at least once a week. bullied at least twice a week. The correct answer is A) Students from least once a week. 5) Radio waves could not carry speech, until frequency waves produced in a microphone could The invention that made this possible was the the popularity of radio increased until 1952 by Which sentence is true according to the text? radio waves couldn't transmit signals. signals over long distances. were discovered in 1960s The correct answer is B) Vacuum tubes made Well done! Now you've passed the I hope you enjoyed this lesson. Don't forget answers you've had in the comments below. Now let's discuss the results. How many correct have less than 5 correct answers you're at listening skills are good enough to understand and improve your English level. your level is higher than a beginner in the Intermediate section? If you have 4 or your level is Intermediate. You can understand different topics encountered in different But if you have less than 4, this How many correct answers do you have in the answers, you're clearly at an intermediate level. can understand native speakers very well. can hear and understand every single word, These results are approximate but if your listening skills are 100% advanced. the like button and subscribe to my channel