Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today, I want to show First off, what is OBS? It's an extremely powerful and and you could use it to stream to services In fact, I use it to record all Best of all, it's entirely All right, let's jump on the computer and Here I am on my PC and first off I Once again, it is entirely free. To get OBS, head a link in the description. You can simply The great thing about OBS is it including Windows, Mac, and also Linux. To download OBS, simply click on using and then run through Once you finish downloading and installing That'll drop you on a screen that looks like how am I recording this video today, I'm using OBS to record OBS. You can launch multiple instances of the app. It's kind of like the movie Inception. Now How do we get started? By far the easiest way to get going click on tools, and then let's click This opens up the auto configuration wizard, and here we have a choice to make. You need to You can use it for streaming, for use it as a virtual camera. With the it's going to go through and have you select the YouTube, Facebook, and then it'll also help you well, just like the name implies, you'll be have a video file on your computer that you can Lastly, there's another option What is a virtual camera? Well, in a moment, we're going With a virtual camera, you can send that scene Whether it's Microsoft Teams, Zoom or Google Meet, or any other services, you For this tutorial today, I'm but just keep in mind what you see and you could also use it for a virtual camera. Next, we have a few more First, we need to indicate and I would select the option of your display. When you click on this I only have one monitor and my resolution Next, there's a question about the frames and we have several different options here. We could go with 30 frames per second, or 60 but prefer either higher frames or lower frames. gameplay, you probably want to That makes it look a little bit smoother. If you're going to be recording things you probably want to go with 30 frames per second So, I'm going to select 30 frames per second now, but feel free to choose the value that Once we make all of our selections, On the next screen, we'll see the final and this shows us the various settings for our recording, and all of this looks If you want to go back and make you can always click on tools again and you Once again, this is by far the easiest way to get various settings, you can click on the file click on output, and then you can customize If you want full control, you could also click and you have full control over the settings Once again, using the auto configuration Now that we've gone through the auto configuration next we need to tell OBS what we want and to do that, we're going to use this real this is referred to as the scene, and we are Down in the bottom left-hand corner, you and we'll leave this name for now. However, you can also add additional scenes. You can also remove scenes, Especially once you start getting multiple First, though, I want to so let's now focus on sources and let's You might be wondering, what is a source? Well, let's click on the plus icon to see Here we see a list of all the different Now, two of the ones that you'll one of them is called display capture. What this means is, well, this is basically If you're going to be playing a game, you'll This is optimized for gaming. For now, though, let's click on display This opens up a prompt I'll simply leave it set to display capture. Once again, if you start it helps to give it a unique name Let's now click on OK. This opens up Down below, let's say I had multiple monitors, I could also select whether Everything looks good, so Back on the main screen, you should We now have the display showing up here. As a very quick aside, if you're using after adding a display, go down to then click into graphics settings. Here, Navigate to where OBS is on your computer. Here's the typical location where you'll find it. Next, click on the OBS64.EXE. Once you add graphic settings. Click on options and you can Once you change the selection, try restarting We now have our desktop appearing here. If you're recording or streaming we also need to add a source for your Let's click once again under and at the very top of this list, there's Let's click on this. For this one, so I'm going to rename it to microphone. Next, let's click on OK. On the properties screen, I can choose the device and I'm Next, let's click on OK. I can now see my microphone in the Here I can see that the audio is coming through. If I also want to record my system sound, Let's go down once again to the plus icon, and For this, I'm going to rename it system sound. Next, let's click OK. Within properties, I can choose the device and I'm going to select speakers Now that I've added system sound, I can see Now that I've added a few different sources, you you give the source an easy to understand name. Especially when you start getting many you want to know what the different items are. Next, let's focus our attention Here, once again, we can see all You can also drag here to adjust the levels. You can also mute or unmute the source, and To the right of the audio mixer, you also once we add another scene, we'll come back to let's start recording something so Over on the right-hand side, we have At this point, we can start streaming We could also kick off a recording, We could also start our virtual camera, We'll come back to this a little later Also, you can jump into settings For now, though, let's simply I've now started my recording and you so all of this will be captured. While icon to the right of stop recording Once I'm ready to record again, I can un-pause, Once I'm all done, I can click on stop recording. Congratulations, we have If you want to watch your recording, then click on the option that says show recording. This will open up File Explorer and here I can see a recording. Let's click on I've now started my recording and you can see I'm The one thing you'll notice though is this is can't open that in editing software, and To be able to work with this file, go to the You can click on the ellipses over here and You can then click on open, and click on this button that says remux. The recording has been remuxed. Let's If we go back to show recordings in the file You can very easily work with this in Now you might be wondering, what to an MP4? That's kind of a pain to record To be able to change the default, you can go up to the file menu, then click Within output, under the recording category, and here look, you could change it to MP4. as the default. Let's say that maybe With MP4, if, let's say, halfway through you're going to lose every single thing With mkv, on the other hand, if halfway through this lecture, everything up to So, in a sense, you can think Sure, it takes an extra step where but that way you have a little bit extra security. short, maybe it's just a minute or two, feel a failure is probably pretty low, so whichever I'm going to leave mine on mkv. One of the things that you might have noticed in the screen recording, I click on start At the very end of the recording, I would have to If I don't want to show OBS at all, well, I could use editing software to cut out I can use OBS to set shortcut keys To set a shortcut key, within OBS, go on settings. Within settings, over on Within hotkeys, you can set a shortcut key to Here for example, I'll press Alt + F2 to start this way I could toggle that key combination You could also set shortcut keys for pretty Here too, you could pause or un-pause the you know the basics of how to use OBS to capture the more advanced uses of OBS, and now I want to I want to use this scene that Let's right click on this scene I'm going to call this scene Once you're done typing in I now have a second scene and I want to add a webcam, so let's click on the Let's select this option. Next, I can give it a name. I'll stick with the default name of video This opens up my webcam properties Next, I'll click on OK. My webcam image is now on the screen, but it is massive To adjust this, down within sources, click on your video capture device and then you'll see Now I can click on the corner to adjust the size. If I want to modify the position, I can click on I'll continue adjusting the and here once again by clicking Now I just want this to be a small rectangle so I'll move it down there. That's looking a lot better now. Along with resize my webcam image, I can do the same Just like before, within the sources list, Here I see a red rectangle appear around my I can reposition my desktop or I Now, once again, this entire black so here in this case I want to record my desktop, With my webcam image, you'll notice that and that takes away from being So, I want to crop my image a little bit, Once again, I'll make sure that and then I see this red rectangle I can press the alt key and then click in and that'll essentially I'll do it on the other side and just Now you see a little bit of a tighter image Now, just like I cropped my video, So even here with my desktop, a certain area of my screen, Here I'll select the display capture I can click on this red border, press the and that'll only record this Now of course I want to record my whole screen, so I'll press the alt key and then drag back My scene is really starting to come together, Now I can click on the plus icon or I could also drag and Here I have a logo sitting on my desktop. This is a PNG file. I can simply click on it and Here now I see my logo file appears Now, just like with all the other items, I have this red rectangle around the Now I want to position this Now I can click on my video, and So now that's looking pretty good. I have my logo and I have my video. I also want to include a border around my video. Right now, it seems like it's just kind To add a border, let's go down to For this, I want to add a color source. Let's click on that. I'll leave the This opens up properties for color source. I'm going to move this over a little and I want Here I can click on select color Let's click on that. Over here, I can hover over my Next, let's click on OK. So, I now have and now I see a rectangle with that color source. I'm going to adjust the size of this Now you'll see that the video I want the color source to be a border for my Down here within sources, I can see all Now the item at the top is the topmost layer. Now I want my color source to appear so I'll simply click on this item and then I could also use these up and down arrows So here now, you see I have this color Of course, the border is pretty thick right I can reposition this and just like to crop the size of this color source. So here I'll do it, so it's a nice border Now as I'm working on my scene, I might want to make some sources So, let's say I wanted to work on the desktop I can go down here and there's an that'll hide that source, so I I could simply toggle that again Now let's say I'm all done I might want to lock those items, so I So, I've now locked those three items and I can about mistakenly clicking on my logo or the video Now that I've locked the position, So, I have the logo, the video, the color source. I really view this as a group. Now I can click on the sources, to select these three items, so the I can now right click on this, and Let's try this. I'm going to call this group logo and video. Now I'll click on enter and I can collapse this and this way I know when I select this it can hide the whole group, so it helps My new scene is all together now and at I could start recording. I could start my virtual Now, let's say that maybe I have to hide it because maybe I want people to Well over here on the left-hand and this will shift the scene Now let's say I'm done explaining the and that'll show me again here Now one of the problems is when I click on these What if I want to have more of a transition? Well, that brings us to this category, Right now, it's set to simply cut, but I have Let's pick the swipe transition I'll click on it OK for that name. Here I That looks good. Let's click on OK. I now have a swipe transition. So, when I'm streaming, when I'm recording, I can now click on the other scene If I want to go back to my webcam image now, I can click on that scene and once So here I can choose from and I can customize the transitions to make just like before, I don't want to have to Instead, here too, I can also set shortcut once again, let's click on file, click Within this list, I see my different scene names. Here's the desktop capture I can set a shortcut key to switch to this scene. desktop with webcam, and then for my full Next, I'll click on apply and then now if I want to jump between scenes, I'll and alt + F2 and that jumps back to my scene shortcut keys to kick off my recording and I Now that we've looked at how you can I want to show you some additional Down here within sources, when you'll see some buttons that appear right up here. Here you can return to your properties, I'm going to select my webcam image and Within filters, up in the top left-hand and then down below, I have some effect filters. Let's first take a look at Here you have all sorts of different For instance, the gain, the limiter. One of the So, let's say that you're streaming or Maybe you have a dog barking, or you can use noise suppression to cut all that out. Down below, I also have effect filters. Let's click on that to see what we could do. I could apply different Let's say I have a green screen in I could use a chroma key for that. I could correct the color. Here and you could even set something inserted text into your scene, you could So, there are all sorts of different It's definitely worth some time looking with being able to apply filters to individual what does that mean? Well here down below, the logo in the video. When I right click With transform, I could rotate items, I could flip Here I'll click on center to screen and here you I'll move it back to the corner, very quickly make changes to my different sources. We've been looking at many of the different but I also want to show you how you Now, so far, we've been using out-of-the-box. You can adjust things I could click on controls, and I Or maybe I want to put scene I can move these different items wherever I want. Now let's say you move a bunch of Well, you could simply right click and that'll return it back to the original state. Along with being able to customize the user Up here, there's a menu for Well, let's say you go into file, settings, and you go through, and you make a whole You can set up a profile to So maybe you have one profile for streaming, and then you have a different profile with you can then very quickly jump back Another way that you can customize the scene collections, and what is a scene collection? Well, the easiest way to describe So just like a scene has a scene collection can have So, it's basically one level up from scenes. Probably the easiest way is to simply and I'll jump to my scene collection So here you see I have an entirely new set of If I want to jump back to my other scene now you see the scenes that we created together. but the last thing I want to touch Over on the right-hand side, there's the controls and you could use this when Let's click into this to see what we can do. Within studio mode, you see a and then I see the program The easiest way to think of what program means is this is what's being recorded, Over on the left-hand side we see a preview. Now with the preview, I can so I could click on my desktop, I could adjust Now anything I'm doing over on the left, that's so I can make adjustments over on the left and I want to change my view to look like and this now goes live out to my audience All right, well that was a quick look If you enjoyed this video, To see more videos like this in the If you want to see me cover any other and I'll add it to my list of videos to create. All right, well that's all I have for you today, I hope you enjoyed, and I hope