-Here you are. Thanksgiving. This means a lot to us. -Do you enjoy Thanksgiving? -I love -- You know, of course, you have to of the Native American culture You know, what happened -- So, we're happy and we're -- but let's remember It's a horror of what happened. But the warmth of it The warmth and -So it is a combination. -Like life itself. -Life itself. Underneath, horror and tragedy. -Do you stay home? Do you have to -- And I am home. This is home. -I live in New York. And one of the things I like -- Here's a nice thing that people You know, you have or somebody you really like, you say, &quot;Travel safe.&quot; Travel safe.&quot; And I think that's nice, It's like you know what They're saying, -Yeah. -But, of course, You can't -- You get on a plane. I mean, maybe if you're and the thing's &quot;I think I can beat this train.&quot; You go, &quot;Oh, wait a minute. They told me, 'Travel safe.' -&quot;I'm not gonna risk it.&quot; And the other nice thing about you don't notice Like, if you don't like somebody you don't go, &quot;Travel.&quot; Because you would notice that. They'd get out the door &quot;That was weird. They didn't mention my safety. Yeah, I don't think Next train crossing, -But the whole family's there? Family, kids, food. -I love talking to you because I have two girls and raising kids and -- -Right. And you're in it, right? -You're living their life. -This is the part I thought, &quot;I grew up. I went to school. -Yeah. You've got to do it Do it all over again. Let me tell you -- When I grew up, my mother would -- I don't know. She wanted me to be outside or she wanted me to be so she would tie a rope and tie the other end I'm not making this up -- so that I could play And then she went back Now, there's a lot of -I mean, I kind of -- -So, you're tied to the -- Now, of course, as soon as I untied it and You know, it's not hard But that was child-rearing. -Yes. She felt like -- When we grew up, As long as I don't lose I'm doing my job, you know? I am parenting this child -If they're still in the cage. -And Jessica's doing well, -Yes, Jess is doing great. -Is it -- 'Cause we've had -- -We socialize sometimes, you and -Yeah, we talk, and I kind of we drift off into and especially when I start talking -- -Comedians are like -- They're They're just some another of their breed, You know, &quot;Oh, it's one of me. You know, right? Yeah, and I start going, Is that good?&quot; -And I feel like, you know, when I've seen your act, too, -Yes. Now, I use my wife I don't think you were ever where you say something that's absolutely not true. -I think I -- Yeah, sometimes. -That's, like, a comedy -- -Like, when you're doing -- Is she fine with you saying about her when -It depends. That's a &quot;no.&quot; -Well, I mean, that there's comedy wife -Does she? 'Cause I think It's a little tough I do a thing about the -- You know in your car, -Yeah. -Like, &quot;Gee, I wonder I wonder who thought, to shut somebody up about, I'm roasting. -Yeah. -Yeah. -So, I tell -- It's a whole bit and how she gave but can't handle off her optimum -Yeah. -And, by the way, the different-temperature Can they actually do that? I think they can, my coffee in the morning. I like to get it black and I got cream and sugar They can do it. -They can do anything? -They can do any of that stuff. -But has Nancy ever about something -I think she might have -- -Yeah, it depends. No further questions, -Yeah, but I go, &quot;No, -No. It's made up. Jessica never complains but you have to use her. You're here to work Everybody in the family has to -That's what I say. Everyone's in on it. -Comedy kids. Everyone's a prop. -It's a family business, right? -It really is. -I was talking to you about I had a weird outfit on -Yes. -And I was talking about how one like ourselves, is the jeans. There is no jeans that people think look good. You just don't look -- There's nothing you can do. -You think you reach -You reach an age where It's bad. You look bad. -If you try and look cool, -I don't know. -I know, but -- -Do you -- If you saw me you would think, But if I'm wearing lame jeans -- You can't wear -- but we don't look good. And nobody's gonna tell us. You got a picture -Gosh, you really got Yeah, I kind of -- Look at those shoes. Look at me. I don't know what I'm -- -Well, don't worry about the -- I was trying to -- bring the moccasin back -Right. But I know I don't look cool and -I think this might be -Yeah. But I'll do it -Well, all dads dress of the last good year of That's how they dress. -Yeah. I was there -- We were having I was wearing just, Like, just a regular a burgundy golf shirt, and I had burgundy checkered And we had dinner, and And then, at the end of &quot;So, what's with the outfit?&quot; And I go -- You weren't doing it And I go, It's, like, a normal outfit. I'm just wearing a golf shirt You go, &quot;No, no.&quot; You go, Someone does wear it. And you go, &quot;No, you look like Oh, my God. That made me laugh for like -- That is the funniest thing ever. I want to talk quick about -Oh, yes. I'm going back to -I'm so excited for this. -What a cool thing. -Yeah. It's like -- You know, where I just want to be just feels and fits, you know, we do comedy anywhere -Yeah. -And now, you know, in that test-tube, perfect -Acoustically and -- -Yeah, acoustically And, of course, -People, tourists come here, but What do you do it? Like once a month? -Yeah, like once a month, -I can't wait for this. I love that theater. -I'm happy you're doing that, in my mannequin outfit. Let's talk about, -Would you ever You know, Steve Martin Would you ever come as just a surprise drop-in? -I haven't done stand-up -Oh, really? You don't have 15 minutes? Come on. -I bring the guitar and props? -Bring the guitar and the props and the garbage bag -I'll do it. -I'll do it. You're gonna do Okay, great. -Whatever you want, -Let's say 5 to 10. -I did half of -All right, all right. The new show that you are It's called &quot;Stand-up and Away.&quot; I always wanted Brian Regan -Me too. He's the funniest guy. -But you get to a point -- I can't deal with the jungle of and the layers of people, and all that stuff. So, I said, &quot;Let me They will do it right. They will --&quot; I said, &quot;Let's just make But I'm not really doing I want to be clear that -- I just brought Brian &quot;You've got to do Like, at the end of there are credits, right? -Correct. -And there are of people who do Is that correct? Nothing. -No. Tell America taking credit for this show Admit it. -It -- Our thanks to a legend, everybody, right there.