(crunching) (sizzling) (laughing) (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] Oh, look at that. There must be 30 different (speaking in foreign language) - I can tell you certainly, there's nothing like this in the world. (exciting music) Good morning, I hope you're It's Mark Wiens, I'm in Oaxaca, Mexico. Okay hold on, we've gotta back up. I need to tell you the full story. So at this point in the morning I desperately wanted to eat some homemade Oaxacan mole negro. The only problem was I had no clue yet how it was going to happen. Our full plan for the day was to, number one, hire a van which we had already So we can cross that one off the list. Number two, drive to a Number three, go directly And number four, walk around or aunty to cook us some mole. From scratch. Yes, we were going to wing it, and I knew very well the risk of failing the Oaxacan mole but sometimes when you you end up having the most memorable experiences of your life. So we're now in the van, and we are on our way to a place called Teotitlan del Valle, and that's when things (bright music) We're quickly stopping to get some gas, but I just gotta fill you When we started off today, we had not, we didn't really have a plan of what we were gonna do. We just wanted to go And we wanted to find, especially mole, because they're known for mole But we were talking to the who's a awesome guy, and actually from a village to Teotitlan del Valle. And he called his mom. He asked if she could make mole for us, and she agreed. So we're on our way. Well, we're stopping for gas right now, but we're on our way then we're gonna go to the market. We're gonna buy all the and she's gonna home cook us mole. This is gonna turn into a (upbeat music) (speaking in foreign language) - This could not be a The house is beautiful, the countryside here is gorgeous. The family is so generous and so inviting. We're on our way to the market now. (speaking in foreign language) - The actual town that we're in is called Tlacolula de Matamoros. And this is a Zapoteca town, so that's the culture, the ethnicity. Okay, and we have just (speaking in foreign language) (exciting music) - [Mark] We're stopping Oh man, so many different That's a big bag of chilies right there. (speaking in foreign language) - Vegetable section now. We're buying some tomatoes, some onions, some peppers, some green tomatoes. And they even put bread (speaking in foreign language) (people chattering) - Chicken. (squawking) (speaking in foreign language) - We're getting a full chicken (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] It's her recipe, oh. Is she a relative? (speaking in foreign language) - While we were at the chicken stall, we met the grandmother whose It's her mole recipe. And she definitely knows what she's doing when it comes to mole. Things just even got better. (speaking in foreign language) - Okay, this is called tejate, and it's a traditional drink. She uses, there's corn in here, and there is chocolate, But as we were entering the and she was whipping it up with her hands. It was like a thick paste. But now she added more water, so it's turned into a liquid beverage. But there's still some chunkiness on top. This is very interesting. I can't wait to try it. Oh, and I asked her for it with no sugar. She said you could have sugar or no sugar, or however much sugar you want. It's really good with no sugar. You can taste the corn in there. You can taste the chocolate. It's a little bit starchy. It tastes like kind of a cross between a beverage and a porridge. It's great. (speaking in foreign language) (mariachi music) - Okay, we made it back to the house. It's time to start cooking. I wanted to just explain and this city is known for which is the indigenous people Tamales Oaxacenos. (speaking in foreign language) - She's getting started making the mole by just first starting Those are pretty large chilies. She's emptying out the seeds, And in the meantime, we have gotten lucky, and she made, without knowing, she made some tamales, some Steamed in corn husk. Let me empty this out. Let me just break up this tamal. (speaking in foreign language) - I am not totally sure what that is. You know what it is? There's a tub of salsa that our driver, oh by the way, his name is Javier. He said this is his favorite And he said it's picante, it's spicy. I'm gonna add on some of this salsa. He said it's spicy. Looks amazing. Oh, that's amazing. It's corn, but it's It's kind of coarse. You can taste that unique It's more like an herb I think. Maybe like a wild herb. It's delicious with that salsa. Oh, it's incredible. Salsa's a little bit spicy, but just perfect with that tamale. It's delicious. (speaking in foreign language) (mariachi music) - That first step of chili is all ready. We're moving into the kitchen now. They're gonna light the fire, and we're gonna get And they're making it purely from scratch. All the raw ingredients, the dry ingredients. Yeah, but everything is from scratch. It's such a privilege to (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] So she's or just heating them over the comal, which is the clay pan over fire. And they're not spicy, but to me, they almost have like a sweet, almost tomato-y aroma to them. (speaking in foreign langauge) - So she's roasting the chilies until, for a few minutes until they shrivel up, then they look kinda like a But the aroma coming out, I'm already starting to aromas and flavors that (speaking in foreign language) - It's a plantain banana. She said that it's a little bit sweet, and I am still unsure how all of this is gonna fit together. (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] So for the almonds, she put in some oil into the clay pot and then she's just frying the almonds. (speaking in foreign language) - She just pulled the and now she dropped in the walnuts. Take one. I never would've guessed in this mole recipe. They're kind of like cookie biscuits. And again, she's just deep frying them just for That's an ingredient I wasn't expecting. (speaking in foreign language) - There's also bread in the mole. And it's a special type of bread. There's some chocolate in the bread, and something else. Is that gonna be fried, too? Oh yes, yes it is. As the bread and as the ingredients are being fried and prepared, something to know about very well known dish. It's one of the ultimate dishes of Oaxaca, as well as in Puebla. And there are mixed theories or how it came about. But one thing is for sure is that it is a combination of both the local indigenous ingredients combined with the European to create this truly unique It's an incredibly complex dish, using so many ingredients. I mean, if you were trying to even come up with a dish like this, it would be impossible random ingredients in it, and it's such a complex dish. (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] This is some type of pepper that I've never seen before. The next spice is cloves going in. (speaking in foreign language) - Cinnamon. This is when things are And they're adding the spices now. So now she's frying some cinnamon sticks, and then we also counted out and then cloves. There's gonna be some Cloves and pepper go in the oil. The aroma of that is insane. (speaking in foreign language) - Oh, raisins, okay. Oh, that smells really good, being stir fried in that oil. (speaking in foreign language) - As the ingredients are still being prepared for the mole sauce, they're now preparing the chicken. The chicken has all And I think she's just boiling (speaking in foreign language) - Mole is such a complex dish, and there's so many ingredients involved, and each ingredient you and it's very time intensive, and it's such a, it takes so it's such a, it's so the whole process and that we're gonna be able to eat very soon. (speaking in foreign language) (sizzling) - [Mark] Plums, I think. Some type of plum, dried plum, and then deep fried also. (mariachi music) (chattering) (speaking in foreign language) - It's oregano and some So basically, the chilies but everything else is fried in oil. Chicken is coming along So she just tossed in right into the fire to roast. (speaking in foreign language) - These white sesame seeds. That also goes into the oil to fry. Man, she has fried like at (speaking in foreign language) - Separately in the chicken pot, after just boiling the chicken in water, then she added in some and also a type of leaf called oja santa, and that's gonna create a chicken broth that they're also gonna use for the mole. These are all of the ingredients so far. Look, it's an entire (speaking in foreign language) - The onions and garlic and then they're just peeling off that outer blackened layer juicy flesh underneath. And then for the tomatoes, there's two kinds of tomatoes. The green tomatoes and the red tomatoes. And she's again just frying it in the clay pot for a little while. (mariachi music) (people chattering) (speaking in foreign language) - That took about two hours It's now time to start to make he sauce. (grinding) (people chattering) I love the sound of that rock on rock, but then with the squishing sound of those chilies in between the rocks. And she's such an expert. You can even smell, you smell the aroma of those (grinding) A stone grinder like but it's very, very time intensive. It would take hours and hours to grind up this entire bucket full of They're gonna take it to the market where they have a bigger And they're gonna grind everything on that so it will be a lot faster. So it doesn't, it wouldn't if they tried to grind and we don't have that much time. So they're gonna do that, we're gonna go to a waterfall which is near to this area the paste, it has to cook for a while. And then we're gonna come back to eat this just sensational mole. (bright music) The drive to get here was gorgeous. We came really high into the mountains. It's the views, the rugged and we've arrived the place, It's beautiful here. It feels like you're on And this is where the water is bubbling, but the water is not hot. It's just kind of like fizzing. It's just room temperature water. We now hiked over to It's quite a unique landscape. It's almost like a moonscape. (water bubbling) (bright music) Those were some pretty interesting and very unique moonscapes, but I am very, very hungry now. My excitement for eating (upbeat mariachi music) (speaking in foreign language) - Over here, this is the paste. And so that was all, So you can see the shimmering oil on it. I'm just gonna taste the paste. Oh wow. That's like unexplainable. It's almost like foamy in texture. You can taste the spices. The hint of clove, the pepper in there. (people chattering) (sizzling) (speaking in foreign language) - Also, they already added so we didn't see them add that, but they added chocolate in there. It's almost time. (laughing) (speaking in foreign language) (sizzling) - Sesame seeds. It took like five hours to make this mole. They made everything from scratch, starting with the chilies. There must be 30 different and what I love is that the family, they just kindly invited and into their compound, into their home, like we were family here. So what's interesting about mole is that they don't cook the but rather the chicken and then the sauce is prepared separately, and then they combine the right before you eat it. (people chattering) Wow. Oh wow. I can tell you certainly, there's nothing like this in the world. It is, it's so unique. It's so, it's such like an impossible mixture of ingredients. You don't even know, actually, and it's true that they don't know exactly how mole was invented. It's a very mysterious, amazing flavor. You can taste the chocolate, you can taste the chilies, you can taste the nuts in there. It has a nutty taste. It's really rich. Wow, it's phenomenal. Oh, look at that. It's really all about the sauce. But chicken is just like a, is just the second I have to taste a bite of chicken before I even move on to any carb form. (speaking in foreign language) - Wow. Yeah. That's stunning. And again, the sauce, I mean. The sauce is so incredibly flavorful that all it needs to It doesn't need to permeate I gotta get a bit more (mariachi music) That's remarkable. (people chattering) Carlos and Annette, how's the mole? Annette? - Delicious. - [Mark] Carlos. - Unique, special. Very different than any Very good. - [Mark] By the way, (speaking in foreign language) - This mole sauce is just They've also made us which are grasshoppers. And grasshoppers are very, You'll find them at the market. They said they harvest these grasshoppers sometime in November, October or November, when that's grasshopper season. But then they save them all. So they have a continual little supply of grasshoppers throughout the year. Oh wow. Oh those are just fantastic. Oh that's an entire mouth And they're kinda crunchy. They have, I think they're because the flavor is amazing. Oh those are beautiful, I love it. Oh, with that sauce. Mole, chapulines. Oh yeah, look at that. I'm gonna add on a little more mole sauce onto this grasshopper. That's actually an I like it with the grasshoppers. That gives it a crunch. That chicken just falls off the bone. Oh look at that. I'm gonna add this to my rice, and I've got one combination I mean, I love it with the tortillas, but with rice, I mean, It's so good with rice. Oh, this sauce is just insane. Okay, they also have one of mom's homemade salsas here, He is adding some of so I'm gonna follow. Oh wow. There's nothing better Okay and then finally, I gotta go in for some Sprinkle those on top. Oh wow. Let me add one more grasshopper And there it is. That is possibly the in the entire world. And that completes the mole. That was an absolutely stunning meal. Do I have any grasshoppers I don't think so, I just A mole mustache. Oh man, that was so incredibly good. I love the mole. I love this entire experience. And when we set off this morning, we had no idea what we We didn't have plans. All we wanted to do was eat, wanted to find and search And it was an incredible success. But thanks to the family here, I wanna say a huge thank you to Javier, who was our driver, because he graciously thought of this idea and His mom agreed, and they into their home, which is incredible. I've said it many times before, but this is another one that is worth traveling across the world. There's nothing like an when it comes to food and travel. And I'm extremely grateful So again, huge thank you to the family. We are all very happy And they're gonna give us to bring home with us. Okay, I'm gonna, before I'm a little bit under the influence of mole right now, so I'm gonna quit talking, and I wanna say a huge thank Please remember to give it a Id love to hear from you in If you're not already subscribed, click subscribe now. I'm gonna be sharing lots and food tours, and travel videos. And also click that little bell icon so that you don't miss the Thank you so much for watching, and I will see you on the next video.