Hello, Miss Bro, why are you here again? younger sister You are a rich woman Hiding your identity It's okay if I don't go home for three years Marry a poor boy Living this kind of food delivery life every day elder brother Don't call him a poor boy. I was kidnapped three years ago If it wasn't for Pei Siyan saving me I'd be dead a long time ago Besides Now Si Yan starts his own business And won an award If it weren't for Miss You help from behind He can win the award You have a new takeaway order Please handle it in time Okay brother I know you're worried about me Today is mine and Pei Siyan's 3rd Anniversary I'm going to tell him My real identity He is now worth over 100 million It shouldn't be too stressful to accept. I'm leaving first never mind Then I will give you another 10 billion order Just treat it as your third anniversary Gift Bar Thank you bro I'm leaving Isn't this my home? Order number: 2200897713393361 Order time Adult products Could it be possible that my husband knew that today is the third anniversary? Give me a surprise husband What have you prepared for me? How come you are here? I'm not coming back How do I know? Keeping a husband who eats nothing is like a dog here how You want to join us too dream Are you speaking human language? Today is our third wedding anniversary. oops My sister works so hard delivering food Today is our third wedding anniversary. I'll take care of you and Brother Si Yan. Look I wear your pajamas Yes or no Ten thousand times sexier than you No wonder Brother Yan I haven't touched you in these three years. It stinks That's right Brother Si Yan Use the money you earn from delivering food Bought me a lot of jewelry You two dogs This woman If you are not loved Just know the fun Actively make room You little three You still have the qualifications to show off in front of me Get out Brother Si Yan Have you had enough of the trouble? Baby, are you okay? Beat you to death You little three You are crazy Adulterer Small Xiao San is really brave Dare to have an affair in broad daylight Xiaoman gets up early and goes to bed late every day Delivery work Supporting my husband's entrepreneurship that is I have to do housework for him late at night This kind of person is still cheating roll Can't hit her You are crazy You don't know Recently Pei Siyan Company Win a city entrepreneurship award Now the assets are over 100 million. real Men become bad when they have money. Come and see it, everyone! Beat the mistress Beat her to death Go aside Rain stop Let's go. Let's go. mom Go home He cheated on me. Look at what you're doing. I want everyone around me Do you see our family making fun of you? You embarrassed yourself right after Si Yan won the award My son is just playing with a woman. What man doesn't like fish? You just need to be patient. Isn't it just playing with a woman? He cheated on me and you asked me to endure it Brother Yan, look She beat me like this You decide for me. You've become more capable, right? My mom told you to just bear with it. You're a scumbag I want to divorce you screw you I said Lin Man Don't you forget It was you who was so angry at first. She's eager to marry my son. What to say in return We got a nanny for nothing divorce Don't even think about it that is My mom is right. Without you Who will give me money to start a company? Who will stay up late to write a prize-winning project for me? Brother Si Yan She is the dog in your house. Hello boss Lingsheng Group wants to cooperate with us A 10 billion order What Lingsheng Group wants to cooperate with us Ten billion orders right I see I'm going to get rich. Ling Group That's the one Ranked on the global rankings Lingsheng Group right My son is destined to be rich. Lingsheng Group Aunt My name is Ling Yu Ning Your last name is Ling I heard the day before yesterday The eldest daughter of the Ling family has been found Are you the eldest daughter of the Ling family? To Aunt Brother Si Yan and I have been in love for a long time Auntie, please help us. Billions of orders Pei Siyan is about to rise to prominence No, I have to catch Pei Siyan He must divorce she Missy Until now I won't pretend. right I am the daughter of the Ling family Rain my darling You are truly the most powerful person in South City. The daughter of the Ling family, the first chaebol family Brother Si Yan I've been hiding this from you. Because I'm testing you. Now you've passed the test. I asked my brother Ling Huaizhou Send you billions of orders As compensation you Don't blame me. How can I blame you? Yu Ning, you and my son That's a perfect match. A match made in heaven I'm a mother I'm too happy to be here You said 10 billion orders Your brother made it happen. yes If he's not my brother, could he be your brother? When did my brother have another one? You are such a slutty sister. You are such a lowly person. How dare you speak nonsense here? Wanton fraud How shameless! If you dare to disrespect our Yu Ning again Be careful or I'll peel your skin off My sister is in trouble Mr. Ling Lady and husband They are probably showing affection at home right now. Your multinational meeting is about to begin What am I thinking about? Today is their wedding anniversary How could this happen? Back to the company Yu Ning is the daughter of a wealthy family Our family later The upper class who want to ride in such a luxury car As for you Don't even take a piss and look at yourself You're a poor guy How dare you be so rude After I But to enjoy the honor Envied As for you I am stuck at the bottom of society. With Pei Siyan With this 10 billion order I can Being a rich wife in a wealthy family What are you laughing at? now You're not even worthy of being our babysitter. Fortunately, I had already signed this agreement. Prepared Sign it I laugh at your blindness. Short-sightedness Don't flatter me Brother Si Yan in the future Kai is a rotten fish and shrimp like you Achievable Get out of here now Ling Yu Ning Are you the eldest daughter of the Ling family? Oh, Brother Si Yan Look how she beat me up. It hurts. A bunch of scum who flatter the powerful and bully the weak Sign now Don't sign, right? Three years of marriage I take good care of you Just consider it as repaying you for doing me Life-saving grace From now on The two sides are cleared No more connection If we meet The enemy Get out of here That's right Return a favor What I regret most is three years ago Why didn't you let your brother kidnap a rich girl? I found a loser like you. You're not even worthy of carrying my shoes. Little Sister What are you doing Bring it here Help Be honest Bitch Be honest Miss, are you okay? Miss Big Brother You're too harsh. yes Good job You two won't lose any benefits. turn out to be I'm still stupid enough to come and repay the favor Pei Siyan I was blind to be so kind to you Get out of here You have to go I repeat I disagree I don't care whether you agree or not I'm going to marry Pei Siyan Damn thing dad sorry I was wrong How come you become so beautiful after changing clothes? Rain Lin Man We've been divorced for so long. Why are you still haunting me? Followed me to the mall Track you Are you worthy? Are you pretending to be stupid? Three days later It's the Ling family's eldest daughter's homecoming banquet At that time, wealthy businessmen and dignitaries will gather Our family Yu Ning It is the presence of everyone's attention The entire South City dignitaries Who doesn't know My brother Yan We are about to sign a 10 billion order These are all my credit By then I am the son-in-law of a top chaebol You followed me here Don't you just want money? Homecoming Banquet How come I don't know News from the upper class How could you be so ignorant? The narrow-minded lower class knows A mouth full of lies The shameless mistress You are also worthy of shouting at me You're a vicious woman. Yu Ning is worth a fortune You are such an inferior. Can you afford it? Ling Yuning, you are too immersed in the role The position of the Ling family's daughter is yours It was you who sent the 10 billion contract. I'd like to see Homecoming Banquet How can you pretend to be a fake? Brother Si Yan Is this your ex-wife? Divorce is stupid. I am a daughter of the Ling family. When have you ever suffered such injustice? Lin Man You just want to get my attention? it is a pity I need someone like Yu Ning. Helps my career Not like you Only wash clothes and cook Deliver takeaway every day Dirty and smelly nanny How did I go blind? Look at you Pu Xin is a mommy's boy and a snob A mere 10 billion orders It will expose your true colors. Only 10 billion orders Lin Man Do you know the concept of 10 billion? Do you know how high he can pile you up? Have ability You also help brother Si Yan Strive for orders worth tens of billions! Try to get a hundred bucks You have to deliver food for two days. This billion-dollar order I was the one who sent it. Enough Don't you want money? These are my rewards to you Is it a bumpkin enough? You have been a dog in Pei's house for three years. How to pick up money with your hands up You should be very skilled. If you have the guts, you can kill me with money. I satisfy you Send 1 billion in cash within 10 minutes Within ten minutes Send a billion in cash yes Lin Man Do you know how much one billion is? My Pei family till now But he is only worth over 100 million You are an abandoned woman who was kicked out by me He actually said he would take out 1 billion Brother Si Yan That shouldn't be Escaped from a mental hospital You have ten minutes left. to be honest Lin Man If I hadn't seen you in these three years For the sake of being a slave in my family Today you met me I don't even want to look at you. You might be a little You think too highly of yourself. I just came to get the clothes. What are you arguing about? Fontainebleau is Is this where you quarreled? Just in time Get this bitch out of here right now So as not to dirty the sign of Fontainebleau Brother Si Yan You promised me You can buy anything today You can't regret it Good good good I saw something dirty today. Of course I will compensate you well. Fontainebleau is a global luxury brand All the clothes here Any item costs hundreds of thousands. All clothes must be custom made in advance You're so poor. Also suitable for this kind of place oh Yeah This is advance payment Tickets available after booking It's true Ling Yu Ning How do you know I can't afford it? Brother Si Yan I just kicked her out a few days ago. Shouldn't She stole your money when she left Good you woman Stealing money, stealing my father, stealing here I stole your money Married for three years What you eat, wear and drink Which one is not earned by me? Even the award you won for starting your own business These are all projects I stayed up late to do for you Shut up That's the award I won for starting my own business. I got a billion-dollar order This is all my own work. certainly Among them, there is also Yu Ning's support for me But with you The abandoned woman What's the relationship? Liu Gang also said he would use 1 billion to kill me Now use the stolen money to buy clothes Aren't you afraid of being ashamed of bragging like this? Time for you to talk big Five minutes left etc. I want this dress. This lady She ordered this a few days ago. What's wrong with you, the salesperson? She's just a delivery girl. I kicked him out because he stole my money Now I am still hanging around with rich people Are you sure you want to do this for a lowly person? Offending the daughter of the Ling family? Ling's daughter Which Ling family Looking at the top dignitaries in the entire South City Which Ling family? Miss Ling, you can try it as you like. Anything you like, any order It's my honor to serve you This is what I booked in advance Why give her You are a member of the lowest social class. I thought I'd wear some decent clothes. You can pretend to be an upper-class person Our Fontainebleau The ones they serve are all the daughters of chaebols. This kind of noble people When is the service industry There is also a distinction between high and low, noble and humble. In the same space with this person This air They all feel smelly. Are you deaf? Not leaving yet The sour smell of the body Don't smoke our Miss Ling Lin Man I know I'm going to be successful. I'm about to become The son-in-law of the top tycoon Ling family You want to get a taste of the upper class That's why you are so shameless Say you can come up with a billion And steal my money Like a clown Stop flattering yourself. Shameless scumbag Fontainebleau I actually know how to judge people by their appearance. you Brother Si Yan I wear this dress Does it look good? Than this yellow-faced woman A thousand times better looking I can steal your man. Especially a piece of clothing. As long as it's yours I can grab it. Rain Like him, a slave You didn't steal it. I don't want Isn't it just a piece of clothing? Ling Yu Ning You wore the clothes I bought I think it's dirty It's better to destroy it shrew Not only stole my money And ruined Yu Ning's clothes you The clothes that Miss Ling likes How dare you destroy act recklessly You are a store clerk Not only do we book customers in advance Clothes Wear it in front of others Still looking like someone who flatters the powerful and tramples on the weak This is what you should be Is there a service industry? You ruined our clothes. It makes sense. The threshold of Fontainebleau It's not something you can get Really What stinky fish and rotten shrimp You dare to come in and talk back Get out now! Get out Not that easy I want you to kneel down Give me an apology right You kneel down Kneel until our Yu Ning is satisfied Didn't you hear? You have upset our distinguished guest. Kneel down and apologize otherwise I asked the security guard to ask you to kneel down. Make me kneel You don't deserve it What are you arguing about? Who makes whom kneel down? Let her apologize to me. Let her kneel down and apologize dream Store Manager This vicious woman The clothes of our distinguished guest have been torn. Not apologizing Still speaking nonsense here Also talking about our service Bad attitude Store Manager I really have a grievance that I can't tell. This lady Please go out Indiscriminate Just kick me out Store Manager The distinguished guest she offended But she's the daughter of the Ling family. What Our entire mall But under Lingsheng Group No wonder when I came Manager Song of the mall told me to pay attention Don't offend The daughter of the Ling family who came to the store today Ms. Ling Hello This woman You ruined the clothes I liked. Store Manager If you still put her If you stay in this store I see your store I'm afraid it won't last long. Ms. Ling Don't follow this kind of A lowly person who deliberately picks on others General knowledge You're smart. If you perform well maybe I can still be in front of my brother A few good words for you What Is it possible that your brother The most outstanding young talent in South City President of Lingsheng Group Ling Huaizhou Your brother Where's your face? Said Ling Huaizhou is your brother Since you are so rich Why not buy the whole store? Lin Man Do you know who Yu Ning is? She has a fortune of hundreds of billions. Ling's daughter The whole mall belongs to the Ling family. Don't mention this store. Ten stores Buying it is no problem Yeah Ms. Ling If that's the case, You don't buy the whole store. Let me, a lowly person See the world Fontainebleau is worth 1 billion. One billion Ms. Ling Do you really want to buy this? Fontainebleau Let me buy your store You don't even look What's the dirty stuff here? She is here You still want me to buy your store? Ling Yu Ning Do you not want to buy it or can't afford it? cut In our rain There is nothing that can't be settled with money. Isn't it just one billion? yes Isn't it just one billion? Ms. Ling how You want to run so quickly? Who can't brag? Miss Ling, don't be angry. I'll have her kicked out right away. No I asked her to kneel down for you Kneel until you are satisfied I'll kick her out again. Kneel down for Miss Lin A fly that doesn't know whether to live or die How dare you disturb Miss Ling when she's buying clothes? you Everyone here No one is qualified to make me kneel down Trash like you Only fit to stay in the stinking ditch here This is a place you don't deserve to be in your whole life. Don't kneel, right? Security guard, security guard A store like yours that flatters the powerful and bullies the weak And this snobby clerk As a service industry Can't treat everyone equally Not eligible either Surviving under Lingsheng Group Fontainebleau in three minutes Removed from this mall What are you still standing there for? Why don't you call me now? Ask security to kick her out Yo This cowhide is blown Also removed The less money you have, the more you like to pretend. Who was it just now? You want to kill me with a billion? Shouldn't You can't even take it out yourself Come Kneel down and clean it for me Maybe I'm happy Can you give me a little more reward? If you have one billion I'll kneel down and lick your shoes clean So much money. So much money. How is it possible? How can you, an abandoned woman, have so much money? You throw money at me I'll pay you back with money A lot of money I got rich You just said I have 1 billion Just kneel down and lick my shoes clean Why don't you kneel? you So what is that? Missy So much money Do you like it? Like Like Missy This is impossible Manager Song how Please go there in person. Things without eyes You don't even look at it Who did you offend? You have half an hour. From Lingsheng Group Move out of its shopping malls this Ms. Ling You asked me to chase her away, so we did. Please plead for us. Don't let us be removed. Yes, Miss Ling You just said In front of the president Give us some nice words. Why are you here to punish our store now? What can I do? The clothes I wear They can still be broken This country bumpkin is the only one who can come in. You still expect me to plead for you? What is your identity? What status? Hey Ms. Ling Manager Song Please Don't let us Fontainebleau Remove the name Removed from Lingsheng Group This is equivalent to Put us on the industry blacklist This also allows us How to live? Could it be Is there no room for maneuver? Ten minutes have passed. You don't do it My brothers Will do it for you Cleaning the place Offended the daughter of the Ling family Still want to survive I'm afraid it's your own way to survive I don't want any more It's all because of you, a poor bitch. It made us bear grudge against Miss Ling. Don't know what's going on Even the daughter of the Ling family dared to disrespect him Ling's daughter She is the real daughter of the Ling family That one just now It's fake I What did I just do? I dared to hit the young lady Miss, I was wrong. She deceived me. Ms. Lin Please, spare us. We don't dare anymore. We will treat you with respect from now on. The family is blinded by interests A store that divides customers into different levels What qualifications do you have to beg for mercy? ah That's right Manager Song besides Fontainebleau If you don't move away for more than one second It's all smashed Good lady Manager Song Please don't smash it. It's all your fault. You have five minutes left otherwise All smashed Ling Yu Ning I am waiting for you and your brother Si Yan Come to my homecoming party? Rain Why should we leave? That mall isn't Are you from Lingsheng Group? Why you Remove Fontainebleau from the list Brother Si Yan That store I can't even protect my personal safety. Deserved to be removed Oh, Brother Si Yan I'm anxious to leave Because I don't want to return to the feast before Make a big deal You didn't see Are there more and more people just now? Come and see my jokes Post it online at that time A big fuss How ugly! Too After all, you are the Ling family's gold Reputation is more important Lin Man that bitch Where do you get so much money? One billion Is it possible? What is she really Miss Yu Jin? Miss Uncle Wang, why are you here? That wasn't my brother. Is it Lin Man who was kicked out? It turns out that he had already cheated I'm here to pick up the Master. The master said he would wait for you to go home together My brother is here too. nausea How dare you force yourself on an elderly person's bed? Is it possible? She is really a rich lady impossible How could she be a rich lady? I see She might be hooking up with some rich guy. maybe Still in his 50s or 60s What about the old man? Just one billion I also have an unlimited black card. But I didn't bring otherwise Can I let her steal my thunder? Brother Si Yan Wait until you sign a 10 billion contract You are richer than her. yes Wait till I sign the contract Don't say a billion. Even if it's 10 billion, I can take it out this I'll just say it. I said that she is a poor person. Only worthy of exchanging body for money What a little cutie Yu Ning, you are right Lin Man is Shameless slut I must put it on. By then I will marry Pei Siyan Became a billionaire I can also squeeze into the celebrity society Do you like it? elder brother Didn't I tell you? I can just get the clothes myself. Why did you pick me up again? Just happened to be with Manager Song There is a promise here Come by and see you ah I said why Let me customize the clothes Are you going to hold a homecoming party for me? You know it all I wanted to give you a surprise. That's right What about clothes? I don't want dirty clothes. and I closed down a store. You won't blame me, will you? Miss You just close down ten stores. The master won't be cruel to you. Who bullied my sister? Have you suffered any loss? How could I possibly suffer a loss? Bro, do you know There was actually someone who said shamelessly She is your sister. I'm so afraid that my brother will be snatched away That's right Did Pei Siyan bully you? He's a scumbag. It's not worth wasting my time. The return banquet three days later I am looking forward to it Seeing the expressions of Pei's family members when they learned the truth What's up? So mysterious How about it Wow Since I didn't buy what I liked That's better Let my brother buy it for you elder brother It's so kind of you Choose a set This one then Miss, you have a good eye. This is Master Brought it back from abroad Private Customization Can't buy in China At the banquet There is a surprise for you Oh my god This is a seven-star hotel. son The Ling family actually rented the entire building Come to the party I've heard it before President of Lingsheng Group Ling Huaizhou dotes on his sister the most Today I really saw it. What is this? As long as I marry Brother Si Yan From now on, everything I have is yours. oops Such a good daughter-in-law I can't let anyone else take it away son I'll pick an auspicious day when I get back. Hurry up and marry Yu Ning home That's Lin Man. She deserves to be in this place. She became more beautiful after the divorce. No, no Brother Si Yan this Isn't it the one in your sister's photo? That old man? Yo You've hooked up with a rich guy so quickly How could she wear The dress my brother gave me yesterday Lin Man You are such an unfaithful bastard. I've only been separated from my son for a few days. You hooked up with an old man. mom Unfaithful to one's wife I divorced your son. I have to mourn for him for three years. Aunt maybe Before this woman got divorced Just hooked up Slut Dare to cuckold me presumptuous Keep your mouth shut Do you know who you're talking to? Slut Cuckold You Pei family are really good at confusing right and wrong. I really don't know Who is the person I caught cheating on you with? I whipped him out Who is being laughed at? I've heard that the Pei family is shameless. I didn't expect to be so shameless. What are your qualifications? Attend this party You're a rude old man. Do you know who my Yu Ning is? What? Ling's daughter The wedding banquet will start soon Anyone waiting outside should get out of the way immediately Rain The banquet is about to begin Let's go in quickly Idle people Just stay here Miss, you have lived like this for three years. I really wronged you. This family is simply Nonsense Not distinguishing right from wrong Those three years Just pretend I'm blind Uncle Wang I'm fine That's right My brother, you are asking you to go back and get it. Important documents? Please go back first The master said he was done Come right over I'd like to find out. How did Ling Yu Ning wear my clothes? son We are on this road Many people bowed to us. It's really impressive. Of course Now the entire South City Who doesn't know Brother Si Yan is going to sign a 10 billion order Become our Ling family's son-in-law Rain Look at that. Is it your brother? A crown prepared for your return feast I heard It is inlaid with 212 pearls. One thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight diamonds right That is That's indeed my brother. Prepared for me lie Lin Man This is what my brother said A surprise for me at the party You said this was for you. Shame on you this she What's going on? How did she wear the crown? Is she really Miss Ling's Dog? I see 80% is fake Why is the daughter of the Ling family surnamed Lin? I heard that the daughter of the Ling family has always been low-key Never seen the real face This unknown woman Wearing the crown casually He is really ambitious. It seems that this bitch is also pretending OK The robbery happened to me. Lin Man You poor bastard Dare to compete with Yu Ning for position and crown Get off me now I am the daughter of the Ling family She's just a delivery girl. Cheating here I have seen shameless I've never seen such shamelessness. Ling Yu Ning Are you addicted to acting? Lin Man You only know how to wash clothes and cook. The abandoned woman I kicked out By selling your body I won't say anything when we enter the banquet. Acting crazy and stupid In front of the dignitaries of South City Sensationalism I know Don't you just want me to change my mind? Tell you impossible I find it disgusting Oh, what's going on? idiot Lin Man Not being loved in a relationship The mistress Brother Si Yan doesn't love you You go to my brother There was a commotion at the homecoming party for me Aren't you making things difficult for us? He was powerless. Abandoned woman comes to find trouble I recognize this dress. Assistant Ling went to the store When picking up clothes I met Say yes Mr. Ling prepared this for his sister. I heard that Mr. Pei About to rise to prominence It seems This ex-wife is causing trouble You want more money? Yu Ning is back Let's cook now Starving Slow down Where are the clothes I asked you to get? daughter Don't ask mom to steal anymore The lady's clothes The lady is back now. In case it is known Where to put my face? Shut up So annoying They have so many clothes in rich people's houses How about taking one or two? I haven't found it in all these years. Let's cook now Go Lin Man I know you love brother Si Yan I worked like a slave for him for three years. You came here to cause trouble because you couldn't bear to see him. As long as you leave now I won't answer. leave If I leave This homecoming feast Who to do it for She's a poor bitch I've never been a lady. Run to your party and go crazy You never blame anyone for the past Rain Ning You are so kind aunt After all, I am The high-ranking daughter She is a low-class How could I possibly be with someone like her? General knowledge act recklessly Hurry up and get out of here Even the cook dares to offend Top tycoon Ling family What an ignorant fool. The daughter of the Ling family, the richest man in South City The party also came to disrupt She's dead. Get out! Get out! Get out good What are you doing, you little cutie? you You stole my clothes Impersonating me This slap is relatively light. Yu Ning, are you okay? Lin Man, you think it's not embarrassing enough? Dare to hit Yu Ning You are done Pei Siyan Three years ago, I hid my real name I didn't want to put pressure on you by making a fake identity Unexpectedly But I found your family Ugly face Besides Why can't I hit her? Lin Man I meant to let you go How dare you hit me OK security guard Get rid of this fake Drag him out and beat him up Then leave me a breath Throw it on the road I see who dares It's Wang, the steward of the Ling family. I heard that Butler Wang Been with the old man of the Ling family for decades His net worth has already exceeded 10 billion Fame and reputation are not to be underestimated. Indeed Miss Scare you son I see this little cutie He is the butler Wang of the Ling family. mom I said you are a vicious woman Why are you so arrogant? It turns out that I got hooked up with this big shot. Relying on the fact that the housekeeper is Mr. Chen People around you Just suppress Yu Ning Lin Man Don't think that you are close to someone The steward of the district Climb into his bed You can ride on my head. Everyone You all give me I saw it clearly This woman How arrogant you were when you hit me right Today is Miss Ling's homecoming banquet The housekeeper can't protect you. Disrupt the party Unforgivable sin Heard But I can see it for the sake of the housekeeper. Lin Man Kneel down for me Knock three times Then crawled and brought the crown over Kneel down and apologize Blind your eyes Did You Know she Who is Wang Butler I don't think you can save her today. Our Yu Ning is the daughter of a wealthy family. As for her Just a stinky takeaway delivery guy Abandoned by my family Just an abandoned woman It seems You won't give up until you reach the Yellow River. Your sister is being bullied Do you know who Ling Junzhou is? President of Lingsheng Group The entire chamber of commerce The youngest president Powerful And you It's just my Pei family Just an abandoned woman Like an ant You have to have a limit when pretending I think she's delusional. Just make a phone call Just say it was for my brother. In front of my real sister Spreading rumors and causing trouble Shameless Ling Yu Ning You can steal clothes Brother, you want to steal too? Lin Man, have you had enough of the trouble? Noise Pei Siyan What qualifications do you have for me to quarrel with you? The difference between you and me now Like cloud mud If Ling Huaizhou could come today I'll just do it for the sake of all the nobles in South City. Kneel down and kowtow to you to admit my mistake Something that doesn't know how to live or die is barking here When I see you, you are looking at me My son is doing better than you. The son-in-law who will become a chaebol family Deliberately picking on others and ruining our family mom Miss It's a disgrace to know people like you. You're just a guard dog. You have no right to speak Uncle Wang This dog bites you. You want to bite her too. yes Ling Yu Ning Time for you to act Three minutes left Lin Man I didn't expect you to be more pretentious than me. I want this crown. Everyone present Behind him are the celebrities and dignitaries of South City now Abandoned by a lowly woman By relying on the Ling family's chief steward Steal my identity Make everyone go round and round If this gets out The face of the upper class in South City What should I do? Not as good as You guys took off her clothes. To set an example Ms. Ling is right. If this gets out Isn't it a joke? Mr. Ling held a homecoming party for his sister Was this The bottom of society is ruined by garbage If Mr. Ling gets angry I'm afraid It will affect us, the fish in the pond You are too young to fight me. OK Who are you? I can take the crown off her head. I'll let my brother Agree to a condition Ling Huaizhou's promise is worth a thousand gold Someone was willing to give 80% of the group's shares are only for one look Now just grab the crown Who can get Mr. Ling's promise? In South City Isn't it a meteoric rise? let me Little cutie See how long you can perform. mom You crazy woman It has nothing to do with our Pei family. I see who dares Fuck you. You old man You care so much about your lover. The crown is mine be mine quick Give me Miss President of Lingsheng Group stop It's Mr. Ling Mr. Ling is here Just right Let's pretend this Ling's sister's fake Caught in the act Um Why did Ling Huaizhou really come? Damn woman If you don't pretend to be a lady with me Grab my crown I left long ago What to do now Hello, Mr. Ling My name is Pei Siyan Long heard of your name Things without eyes Blocking our President Ling's way I I am Mr. Ling's brother-in-law. Mr. Ling just gave me one Billions of orders! Jizi, are you okay? How do you hit people? Brother-in-law You deserve it too Brother Huaizhou It's all Lin Man's fault. Give President Ling to Yu Ning's return party It's like this How could I have Such a disgusting ex-wife You little cutie You went crazy and disrupted the return party Bullying Yu Ning I offended Mr. Ling. Take off your crown now. Hands over to Yu Ning Miss son Are you okay? Why are you still hitting people? mom Does it hurt? Do you still have the law? It's obviously the cute little Lin Man Make the banquet hall look like this Why did you hit my son? Everybody come and see The Ling family bullies others by taking advantage of their power These blind things Get me out yes mom Let me go son I What to do son What are you doing I I am Mr. Ling's brother-in-law Letting go Know who I am Get out of here you son Are you okay? What's going on? Aren't you at the party? Qiqi Why did you come now? It's not Lin Man's fault. The shameless one I'm late. A good banquet Let your ex-husband be like this Just now The Pei family should be made bankrupt. elder brother You also saw that they just The look of being unreasonable If you really do that Who knows what the party will turn out like. It's also bad for the Ling family's reputation. Mr. Ling Don't be fooled This woman pretends to be your sister Yes, Mr. Ling She dares to wear the crown you gave to your sister We just want to help you get your crown back. yes This person doesn't deserve pity. After they exposed Lin Man, it was my turn. Ling Huaizhou Just now, Pei Siyan, the troublemaker So cruel If you find me yes This is Miss Ling Personally promised us Get the crown Promise us one condition Mr. Ling Hurry up and get rid of this fake rich man Woman driven out Who wants to drive my sister away? She is my sister. younger sister She is Mr. Ling's sister Where is Miss Ling just now? this She is the eldest daughter of the Ling family. you I was deceived by a liar. Someone pretending to be you I will deal with it elder brother Let's go home first There's one thing I want to confirm. Brother Si Yan Rain How did you come out? Were you kicked out? Qiqi How do you talk? Yu Ning is the eldest daughter of the Ling family. Brother Si Yan Are you okay? It's all because my brother cares too much about me. Today is still a party prepared for me Your ex-wife made you like this Rain Go back and explain it to President Ling. I have nothing to do with that Lin Man I only love you What She spent two hours putting on her makeup. I didn't even get to meet Mr. Ling. Sister Yu Ning Just take me in to have a look. Now My brother is angry now. Go in now Not very good Isn't it said that Master Ling is a sister-con? How about taking me in? etc. Lin Man, that idiot, didn't even show up. But he refused to let me in You're the fake one, right? Dead girl How do you talk? Your brother was kicked out. Miss Yu Ning came to comfort me out of kindness. Why do you doubt his identity? mom What I said is wrong How could a girl like me, a daughter of the Ling family, fall in love with my brother? Enough Yu Ning can like me It's all because of my personal charm. If it weren't for Lin Man That little cutie is causing trouble Can I offend Mr. Ling? I can make him angry In this case Then why not wait two days? Let me accompany my brother Go to the Ling family to visit I'm sorry. By the way, let me take a look at the mansion you live in In this case Then why not wait two days? Let me accompany my brother Go to the Ling family to visit I'm sorry. By the way, let me take a look at the mansion you live in next week Next week it's you Signing ceremony of the 10 billion yuan order At that time My brother must have calmed down. Qiqi is right If my son Ling is angry That's a lot of harm. Too I want to visit you in person. Tell Mr. Ling that I have nothing to do with Lin Man. Only then can you appear sincere I can't always do everything Let you carry it all by yourself this Rain Ning You can't blame my son. Don't want to take him home? Or You are not the daughter of the Ling family at all What nonsense are you talking about? How is it possible? I am the daughter of the Ling family Miss Ling If you don't believe it Isn't it my home? I'll take you there. Aunt Li What's wrong? When you come back, pull me to the cloakroom Aunt Li Please help me open the door Aunt Li OK Miss Ling Yu Ning wore Are they my clothes? Ling Yu Ning wore Are they my clothes? Why is this dress here? Should not Okay, Manman. Stop thinking too much You're tired after a day. Go down The woman who pretended to be me at the party This is the dress I'm wearing. Oh yeah I heard her calling you. Call Huaizhou brother Didn't hear I'm not interested in other women. Her last name also happened to be Ling So those people at the party They all mistook her for a rich girl. Why don't you change your last name back to Ling? Don't take your mother's surname. Anyway, my father thinks Whatever your last name is You are his baby girl. When my mother gave birth to me Died of severe hemorrhage during childbirth It's good to take the mother's surname I don't want those extremely stupid people anymore. homesick Just eat some candy Great! We're home! master Manman This is Brother Huaizhou 10 Brother Huaizhou's father My good comrade. Brother Huaizhou's parents Went to a very far place after COAST He is like your real brother. Is it good? Um Come come come Hold Hands Hello, brother Hello sister Great, let's go play. My brother misses his family. Just eat some candy Thanks You're welcome Thank you bro You really treat me as your brother I you Master The chairman called. Come down for dinner later What am I thinking about? When your father knew you were back I'm in a hurry to see you soon I let him recover first. Stay abroad first Come back next month I will arrange for someone to clean it in the next two days. The chairman's villa at Jiaodong No.1 good I'll go too. Dad has been in poor health in the past two years. It's all my fault for being so willful before. I didn't spend much time with him when I was away from home. elder brother This time I want to go to my dad's villa in person Clean up good Fish soup every day No other dishes? It tastes terrible Fish is cheaper recently Waiting for mom I'll buy you something delicious when I get my salary. Okay, okay. knew Your little salary Better than a bag. OK Then come to my house. Just take you there. I finally got close to Pei Siyan This potential stock If he saw my house in such a state You know I'm not a big lady at all. My dream of becoming a wealthy man was shattered. Oh my god You these two days Do you still need to clean? What big villa? Why Don't scan again later. A friend is coming Rain Ning You show your friends around the villa. Just leave now If Ling knew We are finished, mother and daughter. Rain We're almost there Got it Scan and leave quickly I don't want them to come. Seeing that my mother is a nanny This child Don't move things in the house. That was given to me by President Ling. Aunt Let me help you clean up. Miss, this won't work. How can I make you do things? That won't work. Clean the house for dad This is nothing. Oh yeah I see you don't look well today. You go back and have a rest. Here I come Thank you for your hard work. Brother Si Yan Rain It turns out that you live in Dongjiao No. 1 The most expensive area in the entire South City This is too luxurious. Oh my god It is said that every inch of land in Dongjiao No. 1 is worth a lot of money. The people who can live here are all wealthy businessmen and CEOs. What is this? This is the house my brother gave me. The smallest set Mr. Ling is so good to my sister I didn't think I could get in here. sister in law I was wrong the other day. Say you are not a rich lady You mustn't treat me like that. Why would I mind? Came here today Just treat it as your own home That This is my home Let's go Hey, that's Lin Man Why are you here? Why are you everywhere? Ruined Yu Ning's homecoming party Let me embarrass myself in front of Mr. Ling I haven't settled the bill with you yet. This is a rich area. You're such a poor person. What tricks did he use to sneak in? sister in law Is this even necessary? Lin Man Someone who is willing to sacrifice even old men Come here It must be to catch richer ones. So I can fly up to the tree and become a phoenix Pei Siqi What's in your mind? It's all this dirty gum stuff And you. Do you live by the sea? The tube is so wide oh I see The old housekeeper must have dumped you. You really can't I'm here to sweep the floor. Clean it up. sister in law She and we Not a class anymore. It's worth wasting time on her. we Let's go to your house right away. right Siqi is right Looks unlucky Rain Let's go This is my home Wow, your house is so grand. Isn't this my home? What's the meaning The haunting is endless, right? Lin Man If you have a problem with your brain You go to a psychiatrist. It's not enough to show off your wealth at the return banquet You all followed me to Yu Ning's house, right? A takeaway delivery man My brother and I are divorced. Still always sticky Shame on you, get out of here! sister in law Open the door now. Let us see what your home looks like Don't bother with this person. Wrong password Rain What's going on? this I must have entered it wrong. I lose again Wrong password It shouldn't be My mother told me that it was clear This is the password let me you You think you are the hostess? Why can't I be the hostess? Verification Success sister in law What's going on? How did Lin Man get your home password? this I remember My brother called me today Said a babysitter was coming It's you. No wonder you have our password. Ling Yu Ning You're too deep into the play. Who is your babysitter? How do you talk to your master? My brother is the only one with a good temper. You messed up my party. I don't blame you I will also introduce you to a job You know it. She was a nanny. No wonder I was just sweeping the floor. You country bumpkin Sure enough, all over Just clean up neatly That Sweep that piece of land clean. Did you hear that? Clean it up quickly If you can't clean it up You just take off your clothes Take it off Wipe clean Wow It is worthy of being called Dongjiao No.1 sister in law Your home is so luxurious. Rain When will Mr. Ling come back? The order signing ceremony will be held next week. I must explain it clearly to Mr. Ling. Banquet My brother He has a lot of meetings today. I might not come back at night. ah Brother Si Yan Just rest assured My brother is not that cautious. He's already calmed down. real kindness You're not sweeping the floor outside. Who let you in? I'm afraid she I've never lived here in my life. Such a nice house I also want to come and see Lin Man Don't do it again and again Entangling me and Yu Ning Having an ex-wife like you It's my shame Who let you in? You, a cleaner, sit on the sofa OK Wait for my brother to come back The first thing I did was fire you. Dirty things Lin Man You are bullying our Yu Ning I'm so soft-hearted that I can't bear to touch you If you dare to disrespect Yu Ning again Be careful or I'll kick you out Hey, don't move. Put down this precious thing I'll just watch and don't move. Hey Siqi Oh my god So many luxury goods Tens of millions in total, right? Lin Man You are a servant You see these things Are you extremely envious? Is that hers? Of course not These My brother bought them all for me. These things They are all gifts from him. Just the tip of the iceberg Your brother how I'm jealous I'm jealous that Mr. Ling treats my sister so well. Why Have you never seen it in your life? So many high-end jewelry I'm jealous of her Daydreaming Why What's this Why Don't move Siqi. We're almost a family. What can't you see? Mr. Ling is so cold I don't know what I will say to my sister. Oh no Hope you like it Manman Lin Man no Rain Why Ling gave you something Why is it Lin Man's name? This is impossible These things were given to me by my brother. how so Aunt Li These things were given to me by my brother. Why is there a greeting card here? It also says Manman Aunt Li I'm usually nice to you. How did you stab today? Such a big basket Also put Such people come in This kind of person also slanders my brother's reputation I Scare me I thought Sister Yu Ning was pretending Lin Man You're really poor. You are still related to Mr. Lin Who are you calling Miss? Aunt Li Missy Miss Who? Ling's daughter Not me Is it you? Aunt Li How do you Enough Now they all run to Yu Ning's house It's a commotion, right? What did you say just now? It turns out that I have paranoia. Feel that everything is yours I'm making trouble I am delusional Aunt Li I'll ask you one last time Who is the eldest lady? Lin Man You are a cleaner Being so arrogant in front of the master I tell you My patience is limited. You kneel down to me now daughter Ms. Ling Aunt Li I am seeing that you have given us a home. For being a nanny for so many years I didn't bother you. You bring in all kinds of people. how I don't want the job anymore Why did Aunt Li lie? Lin Man Did you hear that? Kneel down and apologize How dare you go to the place that President Ling gave to Yu Ning? Cards in Gifts You really don't know the height of heaven and earth I guess he wants to be kicked out. Drive out OK Aren't you the owner of this house? Not as good as You give it to the property manager now Call up See if you kick me out then. Or you Property Manager Property Manager of Dongjiao No.1 But the best In the most luxurious villa area in South City Property Manager But control of South City Most of the people with upper-class connections real If I could get to know this kind of person Wouldn't it be possible to have a lot of resources? Rain Call your manager right away. Get her out Please introduce me to a manager Yes, Sister Yu Ning We haven't seen such a big man yet. how Miss Ling Aren't you the owner here? You won't Don't dare to fight What nonsense are you talking about? What's there for me to fight? OK Since you are in such a hurry to die Then I'll fulfill you The number you dialed is unavailable Hello Property? Arrive at Dongjiao No.1 There's someone looking for trouble here What Manager is not here This is too unfortunate. Ling Yu Ning It's a pity that you don't act in a skit. Lin Man, are you done yet? The cleaner is still speaking rudely here Don't think the manager is not here. I dare not deal with you Not Available Ling Yu Ning You don't know this place The rules Dongjiao No.1 properties It's on call 24 hours a day Or There is no property phone number. Lin Man You have been impersonating me for so long I have tolerated you for a long time You really think I'm easy to bully, don't you? Sister Yu Ning, don't be angry She is just jealous of you Everything you own Don't you like pretending? So understanding Then you call the property management. OK Don't Within three minutes Let your people appear before me Who are you trying to fool by making a random phone call? Otherwise, you country bumpkin Don't be a servant at all. Get out of here now Get out of here now Running wild in my territory You are lawless Your home Who is causing trouble? You are Lin Man calling A random man Look at this outfit. Not like a manager. Who are you? Siqi, are you okay? manager You are the manager of Dongjiao No.1 The manager can beat anyone up. Sister Yu Ning didn't say Is the property manager away? Ms. Lin Manager, right? My last name is Ling Ms. Ling Since I won't give up until I reach the Yellow River Manager Lai You tell them Who is the owner of this house? Ms. Lin Of course it's you. What Isn't this house Sister Yu Ning's? She's a cleaner. How could she be? manager You tell them What am I? Ms. Lin is Hello elder brother ah You are on your way OK, I'll pick you up. Mr. Ling is here My brother interesting Ms. Lin East Suburb No.1 Absolutely not allowed An unknown person comes in Those few people just now I will definitely check it out Give you an explanation No Naturally someone will tell them. You go back first yes Aunt Li What the hell is going on? Miss, I was wrong. Please forgive me All the mistakes are my fault. Don't blame Yu Ning. Rain You and Ling Yu Ning What's the relationship? Yu Ning is my daughter she She said she wanted to bring her friends to the villa Come and see I shouldn't have given her your house. Your daughter Aunt Li Please help me open the door So It was you who secretly gave her the dress last time. Then secretly put it back It's me Yu Ning was confused for a moment and pretended to be you. Please forgive her this time. Miss Get up, Aunt Li. Aunt You have worked in my home for more than ten years. I don't blame you Miss Thanks I'll be back soon Let her apologize to you. To whom should I make amends? elder brother How come you are here? Of course I'm here to help you clean up. How about it Do you like the villa's gift? Um What's going on? elder brother turn out to be Impersonating me Aunt Li's daughter and Ling Yu Ning Today, I brought Pei Siyan and his sister with me Come to the villa and say This is also her home. Yeah Mr. Ling, I was wrong. I was wrong, Mr. Ling Yu Ning was blinded by interests She said that after signing a 10 billion order She is the wife of a wealthy family Please don't fire me. We are mother and daughter They still count on me to live Billions of orders So that's how it is That order But at the beginning I gave this to you and Pei Siyan. Third anniversary gift Later the company was too busy I forgot to take it back. I'll call now Ask someone to take it back elder brother No Aunt Li Since Ling Yuning likes to pretend Then I'll do it for you Teach your daughter a lesson. I am the eldest daughter of the Ling family. Please don't tell her. Um elder brother Signing ceremony next week Held as usual Pei Siyan When you find your ex-wife you hate The real eldest lady of the Ling family Will you kneel down and cry and beg me to forgive you? Where is Mr. Ling? Where is Mr. Ling? Keep the change, please My brother is not here I just called him. He told me The day of the banquet Lin Man climbed onto his bed As compensation He gave her the villa. Someone just now I'm not in a position to say so much Lin Man also hooked up with President Ling How is it possible? My brother is just playing around Brother Si Yan Don't tell anyone. This concerns my brother's reputation. Sister Yu Ning Are you pretending? Pack What am I pretending? You said the house is yours But the manager said it was Lin Man's He also said that Ling Huaizhou called to tell you Where is Mr. Ling? Why didn't I see Siqi, what nonsense are you talking about? Oh my brother The more I think about it, the more it seems wrong The daughter of the richest man How could I fancy you? I don't believe in charisma. You were beaten silly She can see me It's all because of your brother. My personal charm Besides Why isn't Yu Ning the eldest lady? She delivered all the orders worth tens of billions. Siqi, I'm not a big lady Who is the eldest lady? Is it the one who sells himself for fame? Lin Man? OK If you don't believe me Then I'll call my brother now Let him take that 10 billion order Just cancel it Why How can this be possible? Rain Don't bother with Siqi. This Pei Siqi Now I'm suspicious I have to find a way to get her out of here. Si Qi It's all my sister-in-law's fault You got beaten today. Otherwise Don't you like going to Bali? You can go play for half a month The air tickets and accommodation are all mine. Just think of it as your sister-in-law apologizing to you. real Sister-in-law, you are so nice Daughter Where are you going so late? Damn old woman, where am I going? none of your business If you hadn't let Lin Man in today I almost got exposed Rain Ning Stop pretending to be a big lady. Mom, this is all for your own good. Pei Siyan is not a good person Don't associate with him anymore. Did you hear that? Dead old woman Don't mind my business. Ouch Enough of this The days of eating the same old food every day are over As long as I get pregnant with Pei Siyan's child After the order is successfully signed next week Successful registration My prosperity and wealth are coming Brother Si Yan Did you see it? That's Pei Siyan, so handsome Mr. Ling can name names We need to sign a 10 billion order with him People who can be treated as guests of honor by President Ling It seems that things are going to change in South City. I heard that Mr. Ling always did it for his sister. Next to Pei Siyan is the daughter of the Ling family. So elegant What a perfect match! After signing the order son You will be able to rise to prominence Congratulations! aunt I have already discussed it with Si Yan After the signing ceremony We'll go get the certificate. OK Can marry you It's our home Several lifetimes of blessing After today The celebrities and dignitaries of the entire South City My name is Pei Siyan Will be heard like thunder It's not night yet. I started dreaming Today is all of you The moment when dreams fade away Hello, Chairman dad Why did you return home early? It's not about these days. Shall I pick you up? ah Huaizhou dad I haven't seen my daughter for almost three years. I think Manman Where is she now? She is now at the order signing meeting I'll come pick you up right away No, no, no I'd better go meet her in person. Give her a surprise OK Then I'll go to the signing meeting right away Lin Man How did you get in? Came in openly Why are you everywhere? Are the security guards here just for show? Lin Man I warn you Today is a great day for my son If you dare to disturb This signing ceremony Don't blame me for not considering the relationship between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law Break your legs Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law I caught your son cheating on me in bed You can turn black and white Not distinguishing right from wrong How can we have any affection? The divorce certificate has already been issued. I'm not you anymore. That one is coming The disappearing daughter-in-law You have no shame Selling oneself for fame First climb onto the old man's bed Then he licked her face and flirted with Ling Zong You don't really think Ling will always love you forever Shameless Selling oneself for fame Pei Siyan What kind of person am I? What does it have to do with you? Of course it has nothing to do with me People like you It's not worthy to be compared with me. Only someone like Yu Ning Rich Girl Only you can walk with me Rich Girl How else can we say that you two are a good match? Blind A heart You're the one who cleans my house. Cleaner Why do you say that? Get out of here if you know what's best for you A lowly bone like her I don't even know about this dress. Where did you rent it? I'm afraid this invitation I don't know what he looks like. No invitation Can't come in? Such a high-end banquet Invitation I'm afraid you'll never receive it in your lifetime. mine How dare you tear up the signing ceremony? Invitation What's wrong The invitation is gone. You can go too. The invitation is gone now. You can go too. How dare you tear it up? Invitation letter for signing ceremony Just an invitation Just tear it up. You are hitting Lingsheng Group in the face The entire Ling family was offended Ling Family Yes Everything here today They are all my brothers Signing ceremony held for Si Yan Only like rain To be compared with me A stinky fish like you Only fit to be a clown here Ling Yu Ning Your ability to make up lies It's first-rate. Wouldn't you say You helped my son. You don't even take a mirror. How much do you weigh? I brought these to him. Pei Siyan You think How did you get this? Billions of orders This is Ling Zhunzhou's gift to the two of us. The third anniversary ceremony Enough This is all me The result of your own efforts What does it have to do with you? You will know immediately Lin Man Don't mess around here. You tore up the invitation and offended the Ling family. A stupid idiot like you I said you don't deserve it Are you out of your mind? This billion-dollar order How could it be someone like you? Can be easily moved around Don't think you slept with Ling Huaizhou It will be lawless. He's just playing with you. act recklessly Visitors Throw her out of here. Kick me out Are you worthy? If I leave This signing ceremony How to proceed If I leave This signing ceremony How to proceed Why Did you hear what she said? A cheap trick Hooking up with Mr. Ling's woman He actually said shamelessly The signing ceremony cannot be carried out without her. This signing ceremony It was my brother who saw Si Yan's ability. Just held You're just one of my brothers. Just a mistress Don't think you have extraordinary abilities. Did you hear that? Kneel down for me! Apologize to Brother Si Yan Ling Yu Ning Keep your mouth clean. Make me kneel You don't have the qualifications You are the one who was The abandoned woman What qualifications do you have to brag here? Today's signing ceremony Everyone present No one is qualified to order me. I The greatest truth Those present are all celebrities and dignitaries from South City. You can't afford it. It's the opposite of heaven Your mistress You are not qualified to act here Your death is imminent. It seems that you really are Don't cry until you see the coffin As long as I give the order contract It will naturally come to me. Lin Man You really should go to a mental hospital. Take a good look This is a signing ceremony for a 10 billion yuan order It's not a play house You said you can come, so you can come. Brother Si Yan You forgot Last time at my party She pretended to be me Then I deliberately attracted my brother's attention I think She must be trying to do the same thing again. She can't pretend for long. The signing ceremony will begin soon Mr. Ling I'll definitely drive him away. OK Then we'll see when the time comes Who drives whom away I haven't seen it yet Are you looking for death? What about the contract? How come I didn't see it? Didn't you just say Do you want it delivered immediately? Where is it? Take it out Bring it in Billion-dollar contract arrives What about the contract? How come I didn't see it? Didn't you just say Do you want it delivered immediately? Where is it? Take it out Bring it in Billion-dollar contract arrives Who are they? They must have found a few people to impersonate them. How come I didn't know this before? You are so ignorant of the world. What about the contract? Where is the contract? They don't have any contracts. this It's what you want. Billion-dollar contract The signing ceremony has not started yet How does a contract appear? Little cutie Where did you get such great ability? No impossible Oh, I see. You must have overheard My brother wants to send the contract in advance You are so reckless, right? Yes, that's definitely the case. Give me the contract Do you want it? A contract Ten billion can make all of you present here True colors revealed greedy Selfish You want a contract Is it suitable? you Dare to tear up the contract You're looking for death This contract was originally because of me Only exists I want to tear it. You little cutie This is for Lingsheng Group Agreement signed by the President How dare you tear it up You are dead mom My Contract You are done Rain Call Mr. Ling Break this woman's legs Expelled from South City Break my legs Ling Yu Ning Do you have this ability? just I have a gift for you Rain Stop it. Let's go home Walk Rain Isn't this your nanny? plum Aunt Li You come What are you doing here? You go quickly Aunt Rain I am your mother Stop being a big lady. Go home with mom Is it good to live a peaceful life? Mom has done it hard for you, kid. mom Rain Aren't you the eldest daughter of the Lin family? What the fuck You are not my mother Aunt Li What nonsense are you talking about? How much money did Lin Man give you? Let you perform here Ouch Ling Yu Ning Are you still human? Mom, you dare to push What the fuck She's not my mother. My father is Ling Qinian, the richest man in South City Who wants to be my daughter? dad Who wants to be my daughter? dad Why did you come here suddenly? Manman I haven't seen you for more than three years. How come you've lost so much weight? ah Dad heard you're home. I hurried over to see you. How is it? dad Lin Man is not just a father And he is a laid-off worker Your clothes And everything here Did you rent it? Lin Man What is your intention? Still spreading rumors here You just said Your father's name is Ling Qinian Yes That's right How come I don't know When will I There is another daughter. Lin Man Where did you find it This group of old men A good show here. If you were Ling Qinian I am the king of heaven. son Pei Siyan I think it's you who wants to die. Who are you You are the one who betrayed my daughter. Scumbag Manman This marriage is a good one. You said you are Ling Qinian My own dad How come I don't know myself? An old man half buried in the ground Who here can prove that you are Ling Qinian? Chairman of Lingsheng Group This big shot How could it be that I can see it? Could it be He is fake Pei Siyan's ex-wife Don't get Pei Siyan out of office Don't give up that is You disrupted the signing ceremony. Don't think you are with this old guy Can retreat unscathed Someone come Let them kneel down and kowtow to apologize to me Beat until only one breath is left Throw it out again President arrives Mr. Ling You came at the right time This is the woman who disrupted the signing ceremony And tore up your 10 billion order Shut up son no Mr. Ling You've been carried away by this mistress. Today is our signing ceremony. What mistress Pei Siyan I think you are hopelessly stupid. Huai Brother Huaizhou Aren't we going to meet Pei Siyan today? Sign a 10 billion order? Why don't you sign it soon? Sign it Mr. Ling Rain Just now, I was influenced by Lin Man This little cutie is so aggrieved Look She just picked someone and said he was your dad He is really bold. Brother Huaizhou I accidentally tore up the contract. You won't blame me, will you? Tear it casually Lin Man What kind of foxy tricks did you use? Ling was fascinated Confused this how President of Lingsheng Group Why is your vision so poor? I don't want broken shoes, but you pick them up too. Why son Huaizhou How did you do that? Such a person Can cooperate with our Lingsheng Group And you can sign Billion-dollar orders dad It was my fault dad I didn't let him Cancel this signing ceremony It has nothing to do with him Could it be that It's her she is You are really Ling Qinian That Lin Man is It's impossible Yu Ning is The real eldest lady of the Lin family Lin Man Missy You are not Not what It's not you who stole the abandoned wife of her husband. Not shameless For the sake of wealth and honor The cheap bone that climbed into the old man's bed Not the cleaner of your big villa You for Pei Siyan Can get a contract worth 10 billion You really are unscrupulous. Homecoming Banquet You stole my skirt Impersonating me Say my house is yours Have you forgotten your own identity? ah how so How can you be a rich girl? You want Pei Siyan to get a 10 billion order I can also squeeze into the South City celebrities What a pity This order It's also because of my brother's consideration for me. Just gave it to him You failed. Fake Lin Man is the real daughter how The ex-wife you abandoned before She is the daughter of the Ling family. Is it surprising? How many times have I said I am the eldest lady I never believed it. I thought you were pretending Rain How dare you lie to me Brother Si Yan sorry I didn't mean it. sorry I didn't mean it. I love you the most What did you make me do? What did you do? Stop and let go Letting go Get lost It hurts Si Yan I am pregnant child What child You are pregnant with that wild man. It's on my son. I think you are really good at pretending Shut up You two are nothing. My conscience was eaten by a dog My child How are you How dare you lie to me? What do you mean by signing the contract and getting married? Manman Considering our three years of marriage Just forgive me I was Ling Yu Ning The fake daughter deceived The only thing I love from beginning to end is You are alone ah no Brother Si Yan You said you loved me the most Lin Man is just a yellow-faced woman Shut up If you hadn't seduced me Impersonating the daughter of the Ling family Can I divorce Manman? Brother Si Yan Ah, daughter My daughter Please forgive me If I had known you were the daughter of the Ling family Wouldn't these things happen? Please forgive me. Please forgive me. Manman Please forgive us. It's this woman. She lied to us. For your mother's sake Spare us. You, the Pei family, are really shameless. mom I have been married to your family for three years Suffered all the grievances Doing housework all night long When I meet you in a bad mood I was beaten and scolded mom You deserve me to call you mom? I can't believe it. Three years no see I came back and saw this is the result My daughter in my hands Marry Is this how you bully me? Are you still human? Mr. Ling Mr. Ling, we were wrong. mom Xie Yuan exist Pei Family Block yes no Can't ban it. This is the end of our family. How are we going to live in the future? Manman Please forgive me Give me another chance Everything you have now I gave it to you. Now You don't deserve it at all noise Visitors Drag them out for me. No, no, no Manman, give me another chance Let me go, let me go I am the son-in-law of the Ling family Leave me alone I am the son-in-law of the Ling family. Please let us go. I was wrong before. I shouldn't have done that to you. Manman snort How dare you still have such wishful thinking? Drag them out and beat them up. no I am the son-in-law of the Ling family I I am the son-in-law of the Ling family Manman dad If I knew you were so stubborn The family I married into was of this kind I just tried my best I won't let you marry her. dad I was wrong It's good to know that you are wrong Let's fall in love later You must listen to your father's arrangements. dad I don't want to fall in love now I want to focus on my career I plan to intern at Xingyu Company Why don't you come to my brother's Lingsheng Group? elder brother Is it still called an internship if I go to your company? Don't even think about it You must be making a big fuss Maybe even put up a banner saying Welcome Miss to inspect our work Will I It's possible. So I just want to be an ordinary employee Accumulate internship experience Don't worry. good I have no opinion but You do anything in the future You have to look at your brother's eyes. Since childhood But he cares about you. Are you okay, brother? Good good good Mr. Ling. Xingyu's Acquisition It's all here Tomorrow the lady will go to the company for internship Go make arrangements. Mr. Ling Miss, didn't you say Don't want to be too high profile? Secret Arrangement yes Mr. Ling I was afraid that my sister would be bullied. I heard Our company overnight Acquired by Lingsheng Group Gossip I heard he is the president of Ling Group. Named acquisition Gossip I heard he is the president of Lingsheng Group. Personally named the purchase I already knew it It is said that She is Mr. Ling's biological sister. I want to be an intern in our design department. Then Ling waved his hand Otherwise, this manager Will let us To receive some interns But two interns Which one is Mr. Ling's sister? It's hard to say. It is said that Mr. Ling's sister's surname is not Ling Taking his mother's surname This is not simple Come later Just look at what she's wearing. What's going on? I'm just going to Bali for a trip. I called my brother but his phone was turned off You didn't even come to see me off on my first day at work. Why Look at what she's wearing. All brand names Also travel to Bali First day at work That should be Mr. Ling's sister. Are you new to the design department? An intern? yes My name is Pei Siqi You are Ms. Pei Hello I am Liu Xin This is He Wei This is Song Shihan You can just call me Xiao Liu We are all managers Arrange to pick you up Star So nice to new employees Hey, Mr. Ling has already given instructions in advance. Ms. Pei You treat this as your own home My brother is now the son-in-law of the Ling family Already above ten thousand people I'm a wealthy family I asked him why his phone was turned off. It turns out that a surprise is waiting for me here Pei Siqi Lin Man Why is your work number everywhere? I'm here to get hired. You are the new intern. The clothes are really old-fashioned Ms. Pei You know her If you say This woman who loves to climb into other people's beds She was my sister-in-law before. Isn't it embarrassing? Unfamiliar I've only met her a few times. But I know she used to be a delivery girl. Later, she became a cleaner Especially like to climb the old man's bed Dirty How did this guy get into the company? It's not a backdoor. I don't there is nothing Look at me exposing you I can't save face anymore Miss Pei, please come this way. I'll take you to the job. Miss Pei is walking Don't get acquainted with this kind of person. New Arrival Come along yourself Miss Pei, this is your workstation. What is needed Just call us. That's it. Don't be polite to us. This is what it feels like to be the center of attention Our Pei Family It's really developed. Lin Man My throat is uncomfortable Go get me a glass of water. What to see Miss Pei asked you to pour water. Don't hurry up. that is Didn't hear Siqi Have you coughed yet? We are all interns Why should I pour water for her? She's a big lady. Who are you? She's a big lady. Who are you? she Missy Didn't you hear? Don't hurry up. Newcomers just don't have the foresight water I don't want to drink water now Coffee on the corner opposite the company You give us each Buy a cup. New Arrival I didn't hear it. Go quickly. Although I am an intern But in my work It doesn't seem to include running errands for her. Buy coffee What Siqi said was an order. Let you run errands for her It's your honor. What's there to be dissatisfied about? Your Work Lin Man How did I hear You didn't even graduate from college. What can be designed? Newcomers What's wrong with doing odd jobs? I want American Delivered within ten minutes Don't delay the work of various departments you She concealed her identity and married into the Pei family. Made a fake identity I am a returnee with a double degree never mind First day at work Conflict with colleagues How to do internship in the future? Eight minutes As expected, he used to deliver food. but I don't want coffee now You go to the south Buy me a cup of milk tea and send it over It can't be cold when you come back. South City It's at least 30 kilometers round trip. Just this weather Even if the hot water turns into ice Pei Siqi You're teasing me on purpose, right? right It's intentional What can you do? Lin Man You want to burn me to death? Pei Siqi Are you done yet? I am not your servant This isn't your company. Why isn't it Miss Pei's company? Our Company Miss Pei My brother bought it. Ms. Pei's words It's the sky Pei Siqi's brother Wasn't Pei Siyan banned? How can I acquire the company? Are you all scared dumb? It turns out my brother secretly prepared it for me Such a big surprise Your brother already Why are you arguing during work hours? What to do What are you arguing about? What are you quarreling about during working hours? Don't want to do it anymore Manager Huang This new guy is so clumsy. Can't do even the smallest things well That's Mr. Ling's sister. This new guy doesn't get along with her. Newbies are trouble manager I don't Okay, okay. Change your clothes quickly Don't dawdle here. Why You are Siqi, right? My last name is Huang If you have something, you can Just tell them to do it. Manager Huang I see In front of my brother I'll say a few good words for you. Yes, yes, yes Ling's sister Look at the temperament is extraordinary Pure and unworldly Ling's sister Just stop pretending. The entire design department knows Ms. Ling comes to work here Too Sister Yu Ning and my brother got the marriage certificate Ling Huaizhou is also my brother. It turns out that the company is headed by Ling Bought it specially for me Ling Huaizhou is so nice I don't want to be too loud but Manager Huang, I don't like that new guy. Yes, yes, yes The manager explained Finish these today. knew Finally finished dad I'm back Ouch This is the first day of work Why are you back so late? The leader arranged a lot for me. Miscellaneous tasks not related to work I have to finish it. Colleagues Forget it. I was bullied in the company. Why are your eyes so red? What? Do I look like the kind of person who would suffer a loss? What kind of company is this? Newcomer's first day at work Working overtime until so late Huaizhou Send someone to take over this company for me. Ai Don't Dad I just want to be ordinary Last shift Gain some work experience Why are you always making such a big fuss? no My daughter, Ling Qinian How can I be bullied at work? And let others point fingers at me Absolutely not Okay, I'm fine. dad I know you and your brother are the best to me. dad I am too tired I'll go back and take a shower first. Rest early Why is my face so hot? Oh no, no What are you thinking? He's my brother. Hello Xingyu Company's Award Ceremony I will go there myself yes Star Universe Huaizhou I didn't expect you to be quicker than me. ah This company has been taken over by you. Yes or no You I think you are afraid that Manman will be bullied Move her to your side Please take a closer look, okay? dad It's almost the end of the year again Do you want to go on a blind date? dad My mind is still In the group Blind Date Forget it You kid Yes or no There is another girl I like. I have good news for you all. This design competition Everyone performed well. The company president will personally present the awards next week. For the competition First Place Second President Just gave our company Acquire the award for that president So put it this way Isn't this the first place? It must be Siqi We can also see the president Oh my god Everyone strives for it based on strength My brother's work license plate But it's fair and just. Miss Qi is right. But some people But don't What crooked ideas are you thinking? Do some What is the dream of flying up to the tree and becoming a phoenix? She My brother doesn't care. that is The president has such high vision I don't like this wild pheasant. Pei Siqi You like to spread rumors so much. It's better to think about it more. What can be designed You alone People who can't even understand the design drawings Also worthy of educating me Don't embarrass yourself in front of the president OK Then take a look Who is embarrassing? Who are you? Ling Huaizhou even bought the company for me I will be the only one to receive the award at the awards ceremony It's so late Why don't you go back to your room and sleep? Miss, you work so hard. Of course I want to participate in the design competition Get first place Let those who look down on me Take a good look at my strength First Place It must be you I I'm going to the bathroom elder brother Walk carefully I good What was I thinking about? I actually closed my eyes Why It's different with a new boss This award ceremony So luxurious The people who come here are somewhat mixed. Any bumpkin can come in That's not This is all thanks to Siqi. I don't know. Thank you, Miss Pei. you I'm talking about me Who knows it clearly? Design drawing I don't understand this idiot I don't know where I got the courage to sit here. Xinxin Stop talking They came in through the back door. Maybe there is a godfather. Go back and cry It will be miserable for you. I passed the exams Came in openly No matter how powerful her godfather is Not as strong as my brother Who dares to bully you? I'm insured Your brother Shameless Compare yourself to Siqi's brother That's tree shaking that is A word from Miss Siqi I can get you out of the universe Have a godfather I don't know how much I weigh. Miss Siqi is beautiful and kind. Tonight's Good Design Awards You will definitely get the first Lin Man Just wait for me to treat you well Step on it. OK I'm waiting Tongqi Sit down now Excellent design display is coming soon Isn't this my work? How to write Pei Siqi's name Design by Ms. Siqi The work is simply Be original So creative What is this? It's a piece of cake Look at these works There is no Lin Man's name either. Self-talk You expect a jerk What good things can you design? Pei Siqi This is obviously my work. How do you write your name? Where is your work? Trash can? This is obviously my design drawing How to become your work ID card What nonsense are you talking about? Lin Man Your own work was not selected You just want my work, right? How come there are still people like this? Hello Didn't you see it written above? Pei Siqi three words? Is she delusional? really She's really mentally ill. I used to pretend to be Rich Lady He's a habitual offender. Pei Siqi You stole my design. joke Your design Throw it on the street and no one will pick it up What are you arguing about? The award ceremony is about to begin The president is coming soon. Do you know the rules? manager Lin Man pointed at Miss Si Qi's work She insisted that this was her design. Manager Huang Award Ceremony My brother wanted to do it for me. This work Ms. Pei I understand You can rest assured The best works It must be your name What bad luck The best design It's Lin Man's right That's right This is Pei Siqi's Work ID card Manager Huang This is clearly my work. How much money did Pei Siqi give you for your work license? Let you do this Lin Man Worker License Plate Don't mess up the scene here. You're messing around here. Get out of here right now Pei Siqi, you said this is your work you tell me Your design concept and What is creativity? Manager Huang Look at her, she's a newcomer and she's so aggressive Let me, a lady Where to put your face? What kind of lady are you? Work license plate Which one Enough Kick her out Don't come to the company anymore. Xingyu has a senior executive like you What a borer you President arrives elder brother President He acquired Xingyu Brother Huaizhou actually did it for me Come here in person to present the award Thanks to my brother for marrying Ling Huaizhou's sister President of Ling Group But he's the president of the South City Chamber of Commerce. He will come to one of us A small company came to present the award These But it's all thanks to Miss Pei Everyone applauds and welcomes Mr. Ling just looked at me He also smiled at me I'm not looking at you. That person is looking at his own sister Pei Siqi His sister Pei Siqi Keep your voice down Mr. Huang is going to speak Mr. Ling came to Xingyu Present awards to outstanding winners in person This is a great honor for Xingyu Everyone applauds and welcomes The first place in the design competition is Xingyu Design Department Pei Siqi Thank you, President Manager Huang Are you sure This design It's this employee named Pei Siqi Designed? That's right It is indeed Designed by Ms. Pei Siqi herself She is the best employee in our company. This work Wasn't it designed by Lin Man? How come Mr. Ling even demolished his own sister's stage? this How is this possible? This is indeed Designed by Ms. Pei Siqi herself Mr. Ling Lin Man was just making trouble She's messing around here. The purpose is to attract your attention. lie This is my sister staying up late Designed That's right Your sister Work license plate younger sister Come up Si Qi You should go soon. Brother Huaizhou is calling me What are you doing here? My sister She is called Lin Man What Mr. Ling Isn't your sister Pei Siqi? Pei Siqi I haven't heard of Pei Siqi. I only have one sister Her name is Lin Man Lin Man is Mr. Ling's sister Pei Siqi is a fake I actually helped a fake Bullied Ling's younger sister I've offended Zhen Ganjin. Oh my god I What have I done? No impossible Sister Yu Ning is your sister She married my brother. I am your sister too Ling Yuning is fake As for your Pei family It's been blocked already. Pei Siqi Is there anything else you want to say? What younger sister Our house was blocked. Creditors come to your door We can't stay in Nancheng any longer You mustn't come back It's all the fault of that damn Ling Yuning Lin Man is the eldest daughter of the Lin family Pei Siqi You stole my design. Forming cliques in the company Bullying Bullying employees You these things One by one You'll have to pay for this No Miss Bu Lin This has nothing to do with us. That's right We are all She was deceived that is Blame Pei Siqi It's all you We have offended Miss Lin. You guys are bullies who only fear the strong Something to make the tiger How can I be better than her? How many of you From now on Industry ban Block Then I should How do you survive in the design circle? completion Everything is done Mr. Huang you Forest Ms. Lin Where do you want to go? Ms. Lin, I was wrong. I'm not Miss Lin I'm just a Just an ordinary intern Ms. Lin, I was wrong. I didn't know you were a real lady. Hey, it's all Pei Siqi Let me take your manuscript Changed to her name Are you any different from these three? Bullying subordinates Ask your boss elder brother He is the borer in the design department Mr. Ling I was deceived by them. Please forgive me That's the same Expel and ban Mr. Ling Pei Siqi You see clearly now Who is the real Miss? how so You are obviously The abandoned woman How could it be Miss Ling? Miss Lin Pei Siyan's address Send it to his creditor By the way, this fake lady Get me out I was wrong. I was wrong. Spare me elder brother Isn't it all agreed? Let me do my own internship Why did you acquire the company again? I helped you set up your own studio You later I can do internship in my own company. Don't be angry like this anymore. I I feel bad elder brother It's so kind of you I'm leaving What Blind Date You want my brother to go on a blind date What happened to blind dating? Ah Your brother is not young anymore. You should start a family. Startled Actually, I am happy Why not? I Well, it just won't work. I went upstairs Look at you How many bites did you take? You are I'm stuffed This child is really Huaizhou Tomorrow morning Ah Tomorrow afternoon Please give me time. Go see The blind date your father arranged for you dad Actually, I have someone I like. oops Go take a look Dad arranged it for you personally. You will definitely like it ah That's it. oops Lin Man what's on your mind He's your brother. He later He will definitely get married and have children in the future So nice to other women Miaomiao will you marry me I do no Oh, no, no, no dad Hey, what is this for? In a hurry At this age, Career should be the priority Why are you going on a blind date so early? yes You have to go on a blind date tomorrow too. What I'm telling you Manman this time You have to listen to your father no matter what. You said you had The one you married. What A scumbag I don't go on blind dates You have to go even if you don't want to. Your brother has agreed to go. You're not going I My brother agreed to a blind date That's his business. I won't go Hey hey hey I have to go tomorrow. Oh, I can't imagine it. If these two children knew I'm dating them. ah How will they react? I'd like to see My dad arranged it for my brother What kind of fairy Hello Missy The address the chairman asked you to go on a blind date is Ling Huaizhou wants Ran away with another woman Let me go on a blind date No way Why Is my brother's blind date reliable? All have been stood up. elder brother Why are you here? completion My brother won't The blind date is over, right? I didn't even see what the woman looked like. He was discovered This word I should be asking you. I I'm shopping here. Tired of shopping Take a break here oh elder brother Why are you alone? Where's the girl you're dating? How about it Is he tall? Is your personality good? Are you as pretty as me? Who can be as beautiful as you? She didn't come I was stood up real Very good I was stood up You seem very happy I I did not mean that I mean The president of the Ling Group All pigeons That woman must be unusual. That Are you interested in going shopping again? I'll just agree to it with you. please dad You looking for me Manman You today Why didn't you go on a blind date? Do you know that people People are neat I waited for you all afternoon. dad I don't want to go on a blind date Your daughter just jumped out of a fire pit You are so impatient Push me into another fire pit oops Dad found it for you. Definitely Someone who truly treats you well You always say it's for my good But I just don't want to go on a blind date I still want to be your little cotton-padded jacket What about your brother? My brother My brother definitely doesn't want to go on a blind date. You just took a fancy to him I dare not go against your words That's why you let him do it. Things I don't like no You have to go on a blind date Your brother must go too. This matter is not negotiable Dad, why are you like this? I'm angry dad You find me oops Manman, this girl Too willful You still make me feel most at ease today Didn't you go on a blind date? No success tomorrow Let's go on a blind date again dad You are determined Let your brother go on a blind date? Manman Um Why do you drink so much? Ling Huaizhou Did you promise dad to go on a blind date? The ground is cold. I'll take you back to your room. You haven't answered my question yet You are drunk I'm not drunk, let me go I don't want you to date someone else. You drank too much No, I can drink You put me down Ling Huaizhou I don't want you to go on a blind date I don't want you to Falling in love with another woman I won't promise Dad. I won't go on a blind date. I'll make you some hangover soup. Ling Huaizhou Do you like me? I like you too Always Why don't you speak? no Do you have something important to talk to me about? I like Manman I have always liked her since I was a child. Huaizhou Do you know what you are saying? I know I really like her. I like my brother too Huaizhou Manman has been married before. Do you mind? I don't care I only care about her dad I will not marry anyone but Ling Huaizhou If you oppose us again Let's go on a blind date. I'll elope with him Get up quickly, get up quickly Get up When did I say I disagree? ah Look, they're going to elope. oops Me I want you two to date each other. Do you know The result None of you are going I thought I was old My brain can't keep up I thought you two were Neither Don't like it You mean blind date? It's the two of us yes You two Do you think I didn't see it? I just want to add fuel to your fire. Thank you, Dad. In this case That Dad will choose one for you. Auspicious Day Hahaha Very good