(suspenseful music) (car revs) - In recent years, it feels as though some of our favorite car manufacturers have been striving to stay still, working hard without The legislators keep so that the engineers simply to avoid going backwards. I'm talking, of course, about those marks who like a bit of deep breathing some pure natural aspiration The latest Ferrari Dodici It's named after the yet, on paper, flat engine's performance is not the sort of big leap So what has changed, and has (suspenseful music continues) If this film makes you a horse pass, then do please think about joining the Hagerty Drivers Club. You get an award-winning magazine and a myriad other benefits. To find out more, just (suspenseful music) For the launch of this we're not, as you might imagine in Italy, but, instead, somewhere a bit smaller and further north in Europe. Welcome to Luxembourg, which is, well, a bit like the UK in terms of its weather and that it can be lovely bright sunshine or tipping it down with rain the next. (car revs) It is, however, much more beautiful than I'd perhaps given it The roads are immaculate as well. This is a country of some and yet it feels like there must have been some sort of clerical error, and they've been given all the budget from their larger neighbor, Germany, (suspenseful music) but you're not here for the geography. So let's get to the V12 heart of Maranello's latest creation. Open up this big front-hinged clamshell, wonderful bit of theater, and it it feels so and I love the fact that it's We've got the crackle red I like the fact that you can actually see the tires and into the wheel It feels special somehow. The numbers, this to give it is the F140HD engine, naturally aspirated V12, and whilst it, obviously, hasn't changed a huge amount from the 812, it is very much a derivation of that. We do have more power in him. So we've got 819 brake horsepower, 30 brake horsepower up and it produces that at 9,250 rpm. It will rev all the which is 600 rpm up on the 812. To achieve this, there and new aluminum alloy for the pistons, a 3% lighter crankshaft, all focused on saving Interestingly, talk has compared to both its direct predecessor and the Competzione with a maximum of 500 pounds feats now although 80% is available from just 2,500 rpm. The less exciting part of this engine but more critical in a way well, compliant with all the things like EU 6E and what that means on a sort of practical down the line from the the particulate filter both have sort of So they're restricting the With that in mind, the ION-ECU with a particular eye on from the new exhaust system. On the intake side, the engine, now, has variable geometry inlet tracks, and there are new resonators some of the legislative noise reductions by directing as much as possible into the cabin. (upbeat music) It's not just the engine, of course. You really do have to view and that means the gearbox as well. Up from the old seven-speed we've now got the eight-speed one, which has been in things like 296 as well, and the advantage of that do you get the extra to help with those pesky emissions, but that, in itself, allows the lower gears to be (upbeat music continues) Ferrari says that the shifts are actually 30% quicker than before, which is a feat that's if you fell from 812 swapping cogs. Imagine trying to notice 30% faster than another. (upbeat music continues) Ferrari gearboxes have the best, really, in terms There's something so They're so good but so theatrical. The big carbon paddles on downshifts, and you can it's so exciting. Something else that's been is something called torque smoothing. So they've just taken out It's exactly what it sounds like. There are no sort of peaks in it as you accelerate in (revving intensifies) So they want this sort of (revving continues) It certainly seems to work. I'm not sure you would know it was there if you didn't know about it, and, overall, the it's absolutely there. 2.9 to 62 and a top speed so exactly the same as before, actually. What isn't there, of It is just a bit quieter, a bit less animalistic. You can tell the engine itself is there, but the sound isn't quite as raw. It still sounds really good, particularly on the gear shifts. (upbeat music) There's a lovely spike of sound punctuating each high revs change, but, overall, there is and edge to the soundtrack, and how something sounds (revving continues) We should talk about the because, well, I've sort of One thing you should say, by the Italian version, so you can't call it the 12 cylinder, because I suspect you may end up with some sort of nags noggin' but you also sort of need to It's like you need to perhaps with some dark glasses on in the middle of the day in just practicing saying, &quot;Dodici Cilindri&quot;. So don't call it the 12 cylinder, and definitely don't truncate it to 12C, particularly if you're near working. Here's Enzo Ferrari saying it correctly while talking about the (Enzo talks in Italian) (upbeat music) Wonderful clip, isn't it? And the name sounds so good, so natural when he says it. Attempted in a variety of other accents, however I think you get Scottish, that's kind of, I think, because you roll the R little bit for Scottish, Dodici Cilindri. That sounds pretty good, I think. (car revs) What I'm getting at is that how cool it is, changes That sort of relates because I think, perhaps it doesn't feel not quite as rabid quite or It is, the performance is all there, but because the sound is a little softer, you don't feel like it's (upbeat music continues) but while this latest V12 Ferrari might not insult your ears quite it's, arguably, more I want to take a moment and the styling of this a big part of it for various reasons. Regardless of whether you like it or not, it is very striking when and it's this mix of, which come to in a minute, but, also, very futuristic and sharp. I think some of that comes from these big, sort of, they say, monolithic but, essentially, very clean design but, principally, because which is one of the most because it harks back to the 365 GTB4, dubbed Daytona by the As a quick aside, the 1960s wasn't always going to look The first design, which to spawn a couple of prototypes, had much more conventional headlights, like the 365 GT 2+2, but it was this nose that turned up at the and which clearly inspired Flavio Manzoni and his team over 50 years later. What this does is take the We used to sing sort of sort of smiley, perhaps, with and you don't get that with this. It, to me, is a bit sort It makes me realize just the 365 GTB4 was. (upbeat music) Overall, what Ferrari says is align it more with the In other words, it shifts more towards the former. Performance isn't, it once was with this. If the outside design is the inside is rather the opposite. As you'd expect, the spec'd in multiple different ways. These seats, the standard and (indistinct) is apparently It was a royal palace, but you can also have sabelts, more sort of sporty seats, certainly this, and then sort of deck it out to be a bit more technical rather than GT. We've got three screens. Obviously, the one up for your Apple car player, and then the passengers one up there, which we've become used to with Ferrari. You can clearly see the that have been designed but, otherwise, it is a bit of a jumble. There's a lot going on and shapes and textures, and, for me, it just lacks a bit of cohesion and style. I do like the steering wheel still. I think Ferrari does this They've been doing it and, actually, to use is great. I love the big carbon paddles behind here, the manettino's a joy to and all the other sort of controls for things like windscreen just work really well and feels sort of, well, they're not on a The haptics, not a fan of but you've got a shortcut to turn off all the AS systems as So overall, a bit of a mixed bag with the interior, I think. (upbeat music continues) There are two more bits that I need to mention as well, but they only make (upbeat music continues) Enzo Ferrari famously said that aerodynamics were for people Well, perhaps because Ferrari exactly the engine that this has got some active aerodynamics. There's no conventional rear instead there are two that spring into action when required. They only work above 37 miles an hour and below 186 miles an hour, in fact, and you can't put them up when you're stationary They work when you break basically, when you think and they add up to 50 kilos of downforce. Braking has been a big thing with this, in terms of the change. So we've got break-by-wire and ABS-evo, which has been really good on You can really lean into the left hand pedal with confidence, pushing the tires to the limits and even trail breaking into bends. In terms of the chassis they're saying that the is still aluminum, is 50% stiffer torsion. We've also got a 20-millimeter and that, in combination with the latest virtual which is the rear wheel steer, basically, and that is slightly different it works independently on each rear wheel, which is pretty mind modeling just feels very natural (car revs) The view out of this is all out through the windscreen, because you've got those sort of high, sharp cheekbone front arches, which makes it really easy to place. It actually makes the car You see it from the outside, and you think, &quot;Well, that but it doesn't, however those sort of three a bit of a problem when and perhaps wanting to do a lane change. There's not a lot of vision there. (revving continues) Although these roads are super smooth, as ever, you can feel through the dampers, and we've still got the bumpy road button, of course, to use, which is fantastic in the UK. The handling is broadly very familiar if you've driven an 812, with manettino set to race or higher. The sharpness is there, obviously, from the which means you can drive (laughs) And it gives you that confidence, because it's so sharp, it's really confidence inspiring. We've got version eight but you can turn it all off, and it still feels really natural. When you're not pushing it quite so hard, however I think there is about the setup compared to the 812. Just through these bends like it's just slightly slower on turning, perhaps even as though the How does it all come together then? Well, in a slightly, and softer, more GT like the handling is still sharp, quick, but there's just, perhaps, something a little less flighty about it. It's as though, because quite as angry as before, we'll lean into that, I suppose, and, actually, make the whole car just a little bit more GT like. I did ask Ferrari if there around Fiorano, because, previously, that's always been and they said, no, they They did say it was quicker, and I think that sort of for just the fact that this is not being seen as it's not a So they've changed the (revving continues) To that extent, I'm not V12 Ferrari has moved forwards exactly, instead it's almost as though the Competzione, and the Dodici Cilindri as having trained for subtly different vibes from I still love it, I still love driving it, and I love that Ferrari has persevered and put huge effort in It's just that, in some ways, it's traveled without moving. (letters beat)