Do you have questions? I'll start. Yeah, it's a mic check, mic check... um, okay. So often, when we talk about meditation here, we don't discuss it as if it were an about it as something that can happen during any So, given that, I'm curious to hear from you... It depends... yes, there's too much there. We have to define silence. Sitting is There is physical silence... the absence of There is another form of silence... that would And there is, finally, another form of is simply the absence of the belief, or So, the first two types of silence is only the third type that defines meditation. And, in fact, it is a sufficient condition condition for meditation. So, the absence of the is a necessary and sufficient But, there are different but that's the one which is the Now, another definition would achieve the kind of meditation And another possible definition would be... universal reality, all beings are in constant You're following me? So, it depends So, going back to sitting in silence... true meditation... sitting in silence without the Now, this feeling or belief to be a separate absent, or it can be... annihilated; If it is definitely absent, meditation is natural, absent, this type of meditation is one way to lead The best way, the best prescription for this the flow of thoughts, bodily sensations, trying to interfere with them... beholding letting them appear, letting And, usually, that is done during sitting achieve that while preventing any physical thought level, this approach to meditation prevents any interference In other words, there is some kind of... it's not activity and mental activity. You see, if you are thought. So it is somehow an artificial exercise, in the sense that it momentarily suspends the Because the feeling, when it is simply which is bodily sensations, the feeling the thought to be separate. When they they are simply concepts--they cease to be beliefs. right? With some kind of attachment to it. and we are simply indifferent to So, in this way, this approach easily places us at least temporary, suspension of the belief So my answer is a little complicated, and the reason is that the word meditation there are as many types of meditation I don't know, maybe I touched it, I So, what I can kind of take from this, and you can when we sit silently--I'll put that in air the physical silence, which helps us maybe to Physical silence, in and by itself, Speaking would be a kind of tongue and our lips is a movement. Reading So, we simplify the context, to facilitate and indifferent beholding of the flow of at not interfering, and this non-interfering silence, which is the silence of the The moment the belief and the feeling of being other words, as long as it lasts, it's perfect. the right understanding of what meditation is. not a blissful body or a blissful mind. It is a state in which the sense and the belief in In this state, the bliss, the happiness, which will reveal itself. But perhaps not right away. If we are not subjected to the belief in being a separate entity, there is peace. this feeling. So, if this feeling and belief is And this approach to meditation, if you will, is as Consciousness, nothing else. The problem is and therefore no peace, it means that thoughts and bodily sensations Because this sense of lack--we are not we grant it truth. This sense of lack, if bodily sensations. At that moment, we distance object. It's a case of discrimination, if you "I am not this, I am something So often, this approach is misunderstood because other words, they are benevolently indifferent of lack appears, and instead of investigating it whatever that is, because it's one or the it will deprive us of this You have to press it for some ti when I put it down on my ankle bone. Okay, thank you. This is giving me you know if I have follow-ups. I'm what you just said. One thing I've been but only now am I really getting it--the zero When you talk about belief being this thought and make it part of me. That's why I feel I body sensations, etc. But then, is it when you... I become aware of awareness, and I say, it is not me," and I see that thought flowing with Try to say it differently. Okay. So, what I notice is that sometimes I or something, right? Then I say, "Okay, I see that I actually made it me--I am me, that's all there's that zero distance; it's all become You see the beliefs that trigger the I see the agitation first, and then I So, what is important in such a case be there unless you believed yourself Right. So then, once I realize that belief Is the battery still on? Can you hear me? Yes, okay. So, I realize then that ... Yes, I become aware of the belief, and then, me and the body sensation. At the moment when you investigated this belief... and having investigated investigation--you've reached the conclusion It doesn't mean it is false, but it means At which point you may choose to give of the doubt instead of always rooting, root for the universal consciousness team, you suspend, through an act of But, so that's the thing. It's No! Right? It's just that the same thoughts appear. There is still this... but it's just that I become aware that it At that moment, you go back the doubt of the truth-seeker. The doubt and that's what distinguishes the truth-seeker has an essential doubt regarding the nature consciousness being an object, therefore being truth-seeker. And the doubt of the truth-seeker So, the moment you go back to you have a glimpse of your true nature, some residues of ignorance in the mind. In other the same path twice, because as we access the you see? So then we may find ourselves all of a have the picture of a mountain, right, which has on the mountain. You know, the ignorant the plain somewhere, right? The true seekers And you'll find yourself in a different position, and there will be a new path there. You climb climb the same path twice. It may seem that once we understand something, we So, the understanding is partial, often. You know that in mathematics, you don't get the avenue doesn't work because you have understood that avenue... Every time you eliminate, you're not a mathematician, then you may as Yeah, that's true! Thank you. Now, I wanted to go back gave yesterday. If I understood "You know what your true nature 'No.'" But that was not my experience. I was so That's not what I'm talking about. I'm the reality that is hearing these words right now. That's what I call "I" before I So, the "Neti Neti" has to do with... I don't know, question. Okay, Okay. So you say, "No." Is consciousness red? No. Okay. Right, got it. Got it. You can say No. Is it cold? Is it sweet? No, it is not sweet. Okay, got it. So, I start from the definition of long time in my life, I had a different definition Yes, but that's okay, provided you have clarity the most. You know, because some people--if you and you don't like it if someone scratches it in scratched." No, you have not been scratched; it's very clear to you: you are not your car. different because you are more attached, more For me, I think that was the initial you know, when I heard you say "I" but I have always been this body-mind," I could fully embrace the definition of Yes, but you can ask also another way. terms of consciousness--for someone real 'I'?" You know, because you... because you have this deep intuition that even if I claim, and so therefore I seem to be this but what is &quot;as this body?&quot; Let's assume for reality? Because I am interested in the real "I." You see, that teaches you to think. You the Vedantic approach, which uses the experience of reality. Other through other paths, you know? For instance, some people are naturally born mystics. So they which is very, very similar, in fact, to the So, they are born with this absolute certainty don't need to go through the Vedantic approach via All they have to do is to say, "God is the therefore, it is also the reality of what I of what I am, whether I say it's consciousness, provisional realities, right? They are Thank you. Hi, Francis. So my question is, how do you see the value of a as it is working with the mind? Do you think For someone who has come here, who has it means something stuck; otherwise, they practices are useless. Practice, in the sense and the body and should be avoided. There is no It's like someone who learns We say, "Practice makes perfect," right? But if that, to become a good musician, he has to play that. The first time he's going to play these unless he has very good musical karma, but in most notes again and again, he would just become In other words, what will make a musician a five notes, it's different. He tries something no repetition whatsoever--no repetition. Every more perfect. That's why musicians are never I'm sure Federer isn't happy with his game--that's avoidance of repetition, this constant injection meaning the injection of understanding. understanding at the conceptual level, at the through the senses. All forms of understanding the injection of consciousness into what may gives the process its efficiency. The efficiency trying something new, improving, listening, In the Tripura Rahasya, an ancient there's a story about someone who is on repeating and repeating. After multiple lifetimes some point, the goddess gets fed up with him the man says, "Sorry, I'm not listening going to tour the mountain in my country to use a little bit of intelligence, love, Practice should just be a no-nonsense about what we're talking about here comes understanding, that's perfect--it who is interested in repetitive practice? if you are getting bored doing whatever you are stop it. As long as you are interested in doing enthusiasm in whatever you're doing and follow keep it until you think it's stupid. If you're In life, follow your heart from moment to moment, and remember: only the stubborn mind doesn't mind is like the Titanic: iceberg straight it reorganizes the chairs on the deck. Thank you. This reminds me of your example of a you once called it "consciousness peeking through" flows naturally. Writing and photography are to use the word "predestination," but it feels if one can consciously choose another channel or in the desert on meditation, but I have much video was just silent. I thought that might be a It's pretty obvious the gears aren't cranking In France, we have this saying I'll translate: comes back with a vengeance." You know, I suffer I like to speak. Some well-meaning The funny thing is, I know how to write I know all the codes, all the rules, I whatever I write has this contraction I have no contractions. So why not accept the For practical reasons. I mean, I don't think Look at how people discover teachers via videos. That's not what I said. I had a and he wanted to do something. I told him, "If So, he did. Now he's making videos about Buddhism. I know--I get emails from So, the question is, how much what people want? Do you want to I am writing this book because I'm stuck with it, but I'll go through That was an infomercial announcing You see, it's more natural to do it When someone writes well and enjoys I'm currently spending a lot of time on writing a white paper on election data security and while some of it was interesting, I wouldn't toward doing what I love and comes naturally, I wouldn't write too many white papers. Some people have forged an independent There's a question here, though: some never be charged, only offered on for instance, never promoted himself. Some teach until Parkinson's forced him into it. He In other words, you don't want to mix motivations or have a contrived reason for doing Yes, it should be natural, and you should follow your enthusiasm. Sometimes, you have to separate making Even people who have a vocation have chores. who performs in a different city staying in a new hotel room every night, going through security. There are big chores, has its chores. You can have a job for making and the rest of the time devote to painting, Yes, that's pretty much how I've Yes, but even writing, as you say, has rather flow and create something new, but Once, when I was in France, a man who was in Bordeaux, and he was looking for a job. He to read books about spirituality and meditate." impersonal. You'll find the perfect job for it." the perfect job. I'm working at a small hotel in pm and leave at 6 am. Hardly anybody comes, so I Yes, that sounds good. From time to time, someone key." But nobody wanted his job. You see, people There's also this notion that if you remove your heart desires, or whatever feels right. The point is, we often want to know to plan the whole path on a straight line from the endpoint is a plot in that's not how it works. The way it should work future wide open, not knowing, and what decides So, it's not that you decide on the entire or a straight line. No, all you need to know step forward or back? In a new place, you in hindsight, the path will seem Yes, I see that in my own path, like in when I wasn't happy with where I was living, at what I really wanted, and it became So, she helped you discover your heart's desire. Yes, exactly. I guess I'm at the The point I was making is different. Your "In this moment, I want this house," it because that's what you want right now. But Yes, but you can have a strategy; it's perfectly the next moment, you revisit that. Your guide have a strategy, and if your heart's desire in the same direction. This way, you live you've been doing what you wanted, given the Yes, it's always in the moment. I see that the desire because of external pressure, like Exactly, only go against your heart's desire if If you love your parents and believe they made them. But ultimately, you are the need to put wisdom into it, considering marriage, for instance, makes you miserable, then happy either. Wisdom will show you that your Right, well, I won't be mistaken But you're fair enough, right? Just one question, then. I learned and the value of both short- and long-term goals. There's nothing wrong with setting moment, that's what you truly want. desire. It's important that, yes, in the rather than feeling like you must. For instance, but I have to go to church." The point Okay, so if I set a goal to write a it feels like an effort to continue, I should Yes, some well-meaning people are helping my heart's desire, even if I decide not to finish So, if you said "yes" to a book, it's less Exactly. Thank you. You've often explained that allows us to hear and perceive you as you speak. Did I say that? I said that consciousness is hear. The way you put it implies that there's which allows that to happen. I mean that speaks, by the way. There's Understood. But I wonder, if I then how would consciousness be defined? As "that which is." Whatever that is. Recently, I've been criticized for Advaita teachers to earn an income. such things. How do you feel about this? Even when Ramana Maharshi was living in his cave, didn't live solely on insects. Later, people materials and labor. He wasn't living off thin He lived in a different era and culture, where money is the common denominator In India, it was called "service labor or material offerings, whether rupees or to be reasonable and compassionate to make teachings, but also safe to ask those who can he accepted support and services I've also been reflecting on this question of of color is in visuality itself--color couldn't I experience is entirely a feeling, so it the belief in externality fades and returns; It depends on what you mean by externality and a form of idealist Advaita that claims things exist outside my mind as Francis, such I accept that things exist outside my mind. all minds, like this flower, is perhaps yes, considered separately or collectively, convince yourself there is no externality When we talk about externality nothing is external to reality. Consciousness seeker glimpse the experience of reality. It's about Brahman more than Atman. and if that reality is hearing these words right In an interview, you once said it's important teacher. This discouraged me because I don't a person do besides watching videos, reading Do your best, and that's all you can do. If, in is needed, then things will happen in your life to But if it doesn't happen, then it wasn't with the internet and video, allows for guidance, making you much closer to your all we had were books, and they This morning was particularly beautiful words to an experience of love or beauty but sometimes when I experience a perfect feel uncomfortable in the presence of love or Your question is like this: let's say and you enjoy it, but then you It's too late! Move on. The pleasure not in doing something with it. In the same the moment. Whether it lasts a second or Some chocolates are long-lasting, The discomfort you describe comes after, glimpse of truth doesn't give you a bad with a vengeance that gives you this aftertaste. beauty, the moment of love or humor. But don't try we kill it. In the German play "Faust" by Goethe, and beauty and win the girl. But there's a rule: , for you are so beautiful." The idea is that Make your life a continuous contemplation without In your Paris retreats, I had the most and my understanding grew immensely. Thank you my trust and provide reassurance essential comes suddenly, like a hurricane, other times I watched an interview from a long time if not impossible, for transmission to happen guru was necessary. But that can't be the universal consciousness, as I experienced transmission really is, and has your understanding I didn't say the physical presence of the it's more challenging to happen through a book, transmission can happen under various even through an indirect encounter. The difference if there is genuine interest, the That's a significant distinction, With the internet, interactivity, sound, and making it easier even if you're not physically Watching tennis online isn't the same as being system isn't the same as attending in person. a theatrical play on TV and being there in for why this difference exists; I can offer something we intuitively sense My experiential understanding is that if I walked as they do. I also sense that there's an inner These two realizations led me to conclude that my since I would act just as they do. At my best, I but it seems limited to humans and perhaps all duality, as I can't honestly say I perceive the me, but it feels dualistic. Could you confirm Your question raises two inquiries: what does it mean to be "the same"? Is it a that have the same mass and charge yet exist In my view, similarity isn't enough; identity is that perceives within you, me, and all but the one reality or consciousness reality or being, then it means our true word for "to be." So, in Advaita, it won't allow for complete inner peace or stability. Yesterday, I didn't have many questions, but today I have several. When investigating the sense of being that seems to exist nowhere in the body; experience is identical to certain out-of-body body and room were perceived from a detached What these events have in common is the witness non-local, because all specific locations appear While contemplating absolute reality, giving it attributes feels limiting. Is this You're correct; any conceptual In the Vedantic tradition, they use another thorn. For example, the concept of finiteness. But once finiteness is removed, as it, too, is limiting. You discard both that was removed. Could you speak about the relationship between and hate are not that different, as they I'm involved in a divorce, and my ex-wife For a pair of opposites to be truly opposite, We can't compare elements that don't exist on or feel hatred for someone encountered in a to hate them or even to love them, as they When we see hate and love as opposites, but that's not the case. meaning it's a quality of the absolute. whereas love is inherent to wisdom. Since wisdom are love and hate. As Rupert correctly pointed