(upbeat music) Okay, so here is the accident. Good afternoon, youtube. So today we're gonna head to St. Louis, Potosi on our way to Mexico City. That's what we're gonna stop in sleep tonight. That's kind of like a halfway point. So let's get going. It was freezing last night. It's cold today. the good thing is that we have the sun out. So the road is not going to be a slippery or anything, but let's get going. And see you guys on the road. Today's not going to be as fun or interesting as yesterday, but we're going to head towards Mexico City. See you guys on the road. Let's get going. Let's have another beautiful and productive day. [BLANK_AUDIO] See, that's the National Emblem of Mexico, Speed Bump. They come out here so fast and unexpectedly . [BLANK_AUDIO] Well, this one I definitely see. I'm sure they had a sign, but they did a pay attention to that. So a lot of this area is of course a farming of agriculture. There's also a lot of cattle wrenching. This other forms of livestock cattle wrenching goats sheep. So yep this is the outskirts of Galeana. Galeana is a neat town. It's had a lot of kind of western, like western vibe with the cowboy hats, or I should say like those Mexican hats and uh boots, horse boots, cowboy boots, and uh wow and you know what the thing about Mexico is that and a lot of the hotels and I'm sure even homes there's not a heating system They don't heat. They have AC, but they don't have heating. And I can't really blame them because most of the year is pretty warm, but it would be nice for those cold, cold nights to have some heating. But last night it was really good. I don't know if it was the location of the room or whatever it was. So yeah, this is what today is mostly going to look like. Just asphalt. I could take, I do know some dirt tracks around this area, especially once I get to Dr. Arroyo. But is this too cold for me to like fall down and no is this way too cold? And I'm sure there's not going to be many people out. So if there is a emergency it's going to be difficult getting any kind of help. So my goal is to go south as fast as I can so we can be warmer. All right we got a quick update. It's not as cold. It's still super windy but it's definitely not as cold as in the morning so I'm stoked about that. The land has changed. We have come to cactus territory. It is incredible. There's so much in this area. Wow! We have nothing but cactus cactus cactus. We got about 24 kilometers until we get some fuel. So we have enough to make it there and the goodness continues. You know what I'm noticing today is that there's a lot of car traffic. The most I have ever seen in Mexico and I believe the reason for that is because it's just right before Christmas, so everybody's trying to make it to their small town or family or wherever they're from. I know a lot of Mexican people, they're not from the cities, at least, generationally speaking. So they go back home to the small towns that they're from, the small communities that they're from. So I'm also noticing like a lot of American plates. I've even seen like Illinois plates. So a lot of Texas plates, a lot of plates from the US. So I guess they're just rushing to visit, to get back into, to visit home. So wow, it is this incredible that amount of cactus in this area. Yeah, but this is definitely the most traffic I've ever seen in Mexico. But at least outside of big cities. Of course once you get to a city, it's gonna be just bumper to bumper. So here's another thing I'm noticing today. What is it with all of these people? What are they doing? This is something that I've never seen before and a lot of these look very indigenous and I'm wondering what are they doing here? I have no idea. They don't seem to be selling anything Are they trying to ask people from Merry Christmas like hey? Bless me? That's a California plate over there with that vehicle and they stopped to give someone You know what the next person I see I'm gonna stop in after what they're doing here All right, how much does Americans Where are you from? From where are you from? From here, from the edge of the beach. Okay, okay, okay. Okay, yes, yes, yes. I am a police engineer for the city. I am a police engineer for the city. Where are you from? I am from Africa. From Africa? Yes. I have coins here and I have coins and coins. Thank you very much. Every year, it's the same. I only have money. Okay, it's just for the police and the people or other times of the year. Thank you very much, thank you very much Thank you very much, thank you very much Okay, that's what I assumed they were doing Okay, so what they're doing is, I guess they live in these wrench towns in this area And it is windy. So I guess it's a good way to like, I guess the community is not rich and everybody else is celebrating Christmas and for them it's just a lot, it's just easier I assume to just step on the street and to ask the people passing by. So now I understand they don't look like they're doing well in life and I hope other people actually stop and bless them you know. Wow, that is very interesting. Good thing my assumption was good. Because I was like, I'm like, wait, no way these people could be like migrants. Because we're heading towards the wrong direction. Like we're going south, we're not going towards the US. So I was like, wait, what are they doing? And I guess today is a good day and tomorrow. And like I was saying, this is the most amount of vehicles I've ever seen. And in Mexico, no one passes me. Okay, very few people pass this motorcycle So I'm amazed like all these vehicles that are passing me today It's like wow and that's because these are like nicer cars So I guess everybody's going home for the holidays Ah very interesting to see Now I don't have money, I am sorry, sorry. (inaudible) [Music] but... Roja! Ah, border, border. Which of these panes? A poquito? For one. Yellow. Yellow. Oh, it's much as porcelain as I think. Oh, it's much as porcelain. Hey, it's just traffic bomb, it's just porcelain as... Bastante? C. You think? (speaking in foreign language) - This is not its whole road, this is just a normal inner state or a freeway. It's actually not a inner state, at least in the American sense. It will just be called a freeway because they do have a few stop times. But wow, it's just so, like the mountain range is so nice. Wow. Mexico, you are beautiful. So we got about 170 kilometers to St. Louis, photo sea. It's very nice how they use the cactus as part of the landscaping. You know, that's like one big difference So one big difference between the US and Mexico is the amount of landscaping. America is very big on the aesthetics and making sure certain things are cut a certain way and a certain design that America has. You don't really see that with Mexico too much. It's like, &quot;Hey, get the basics right and just keep pushing.&quot; So you can see like the landscaping is pretty good here, but then once you get to this side, it changes to where it's just like, &quot;Oh, whatever, who cares?&quot; The cactus has re-emerged. So now we've got the mountain backdrop with the cactus in the foreground and then you have the same thing on this side. Cactus and a mountain backdrop. That is spectacular. And yes, all of these pickup trucks, American pickup trucks are passing me. Silverado, yep. See Americans, they got their bicycles. Everything, they bring everything with them in a trailer. I guess the pickup bed and the inside of the pickup doesn't fit enough. So, gotta bring your bicycle. Watch, I'm gonna show you another example, right? And I bet you this is probably an American person. So look at this red car here. right they got stuff on the on the top and those are Texas plates you know what's interesting is that with all of these American vehicles it really feels like you're driving in America because they follow the same like mannerisms the driving habits that they do in the this is Iowa this vehicle is coming from Iowa. Wow, Mexicans. I've seen plates from Wyoming, Oklahoma, Illinois, Iowa. I guess there's a good Mexican population in Iowa, I guess. Interesting. Yeah, I'm going 68 miles an hour and I guess they're still passing me. This is, and I'm like, wait. regular Mexicans do not pass me at this frequency so it is very weird that this is happening all right so in this area here I see a lot of you know Mexico Mexico is nice because I get my own motorcycle lane Americans love hauling things maybe maybe let's look at the good side right maybe they're bringing gifts for their family. Here is a very famous American trucking company Swift. So in Mexico, I think it's called like &quot;Mex something.&quot; Let's see. So these trailers, let me see what played it as. It might be like Oklahoma or something. Indiana, yep. So this is an American trailer that probably gets used in America. And TransMex is the Mexican name that Swift uses. Swift is a very international, I mean it's a very famous American company Probably is probably the biggest truck in company in America or one of the biggest and They're sometimes famous and there's sometimes infamous So yeah, so there's a good amount of farming that's going on in this area Oh interesting Avena. Avena is oatmeal, right? I'm wondering what's being made here. Interesting. I have never seen Mexico this busy. I mean, yes, this is a pretty big service station. That's right off the freeway, but man, the number of people today is crazy. Do you want to see? Go go meet the hysterical or there's a match on us. Two, three. Bastante, give me ten. Yes. Do not tell me it's raining. There's definitely a good amount of moisture in the air. So all right, let's get going. And right back to my lane. Okay, so we have more than an hour delay. Hopefully, there might be enough space for a motorcycle to go through. If not, it's gonna be a pretty, pretty bad day. Oh, it is getting a whole lot more chilly now. Yeah, it's getting a whole lot colder. All right, 88 kilometers, we can do this. Let's just keep on trucking and hear the vehicles are stopping. So let me get to my motorcycle lane and see if it fix the problem. [Music] (gentle music) [Music] So hopefully there's not going to be too many users of the shoulder and we can just freely pass through I am gonna assume that they might shut down the road until like ambulance has come especially if it's like a big accident involving trucks So we're just going to See how bad it is but so far We are moving. [MUSIC PLAYING] [Music] (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (gentle music) (gentle music) (gentle music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) [Music] Okay, so here is the accident. So wow, this is crazy. This is crazy. We are out of traffic. Now I feel sorry for this side. I feel sorry for all these people. They just want to get home and get ready for the holidays. And they have to contend with accidents. Sometimes just bad driving mistakes. and I didn't have any people or delayed for hours upon hours. But good thing is that they already have it. They're about to clean the road, clear the road very quickly. So it won't be too long. We are getting closer to our resting spot. This is the hotel that I'm staying at. It's such a neat place. I really like how they did the landscaping, how they did the whole design of it. It's such an interesting place. I asked the guy when it was built, it's built in 1978. So 42 years old. But it's just so cool how they did the trees. Really, really cool. I mean, it's nice that they have like an ample amount of space. And I'm sure like when they bought the land, it wasn't so expensive. So let me show you guys some murals that they have, which I just really like. I do like colors, all sorts of different colors. and like even abstract designs. I do like looking at them. So let's start from all the way from this side. And let me quickly show you guys. I know it's going to be a long video. But wow, this is, I mean isn't this cool? How you can have some kind of a date, dinner? Because this is a hotel restaurant. So this is so cool. This is so cool and then they have these like interesting trees. Very, very neat. But let me show you guys the one that caught my eye. Of course, is this one. But let me get closer and show you guys. So take a look at this. I am in the small town of Santa Maria del Rio. You have the dragon here. This is such a cool raptor. I think this is like a raptor, right? This is not just for anybody that's basketball fan. Doesn't it remind you of the Toronto raptor is like old jerseys? Some way it does, but whoever did this, whoa, what a good artist. What a good, good artist. Now this kind of art and stuff on the wall I like. Graffiti or just tagging, I hate tagging. You'll see a lot of tagging in Latin America and I'm definitely not a fan of it, but this is awesome. So let me get something to eat, and then I'll be back. So, ah, this is a pretty cool backdrop, right? So this is the restaurant. I just like how they designed everything. Is it so cool? Especially with the lights and everything? Oh wow, look at that amount of crosses. A lot of detail in this restaurant. Wow, what a cool place, lots and lots of detail. So let's give it a taste test. It tastes all right, it tastes pretty good. So now I'm waiting for the tacos. I got my serving of tacos, lemon, fries. I'm gonna eat this and see you guys in the room. So let me give you guys a quick room tour before this video just ends. Alright, it's a really cool room. I do like the paint that they have here. Decent bed, some good material. It was built a long time ago and in some ways it's probably built to a pretty good standard. Toilet, sink, shower, I really hope they have hot water. I really hope they have hot water and the price for the room is 31 dollars and a half. Anyways thank you guys very much for watching this video please click on the like button click on subscribe and see you guys tomorrow I don't know if I'm gonna make it to Mexico City but thanks for watching peace