- By clicking on this video you just made someone one 10th of a penny. Here's what I mean. I put four of my friends And whoever's the last one wins $1,000 for every 1 Only one of you is getting $1,000 per million views for - Fine, I'll do it. - What if you touch the red line? - [MrBeast] So here, this is okay. - Okay. But if it goes like that, out. - Right now, I'm in. Move it outside the - Right here? (laughs) - [MrBeast] The challenge has started. What if Tareq wins and you just- - Tareq's not winning. Come on! - Now in case you're wondering, whoever wins this challenge So if seven years from now, this video gets another million views they'll get another thousand dollars. This is very serious. Maybe you should stop eating - We get in each other's heads and then we're gonna betray each other. - Tareq needs to get out first. - Tareq has to go first. So you're waiting for them to get out and then you'll start- - Absolutely. - One of you guys, including them, is walking away with $1,000 for every million views on this video. - Hi, me in the future, you won. - You know, he's gonna feel so dumb when he watches that as a loser. Come on. - It's me and Tyler in the circle here. Who's gonna leave first? - Either me or Chris. - Even though we're in the same circle, I wish you the best of luck, - This is a wall of balloons. When they pop a balloon, They could win a bed or they Depends on which ones they pop. Pop a balloon. - Darts! - Each balloon has a note. Chris, you just got a kite. - Yay, I got a kite. - It's inside. Why are you happy? - We can just run around in - Here's your &quot;Toy Story 4&quot; kite. Karl, pop a balloon. - Ooh! - Here we go, giant beanbag chair. - Bro, yes! Yes! - Yeah, it's definitely not - Oh my gosh, this is huge. Enjoy your beanbag. I'll see guys later. - Bye. This is the life. - Surprisingly, they're That doesn't make sense. - Every time you watch this video, that's one 10th of a penny Probably gonna be one of us. - Share the video. Watch it. Tell your dog, whoever you have to tell. - You go ahead and pop one. - Oh, did I get it? - [Man] Nice throw. - You've got an RC car. - Oh, yes please. - Here's your RC car. - Thank you so much, Jimmy. - Okay, we have a trade proposition. If you drive over and we'll give you our beanbag chair. Yeah, the second I see the Mario kart, I'll have Jimmy it walk over- - All right, sounds like a deal. - [MrBeast] You want me - Please. (engine revving) (explosion) (engine revving) All right, there you go. - Yeah, I can hear you. And also, we have your kart, you idiot! - Yeah! Let's go! We're keeping the beanbag chair! - [Tareq] Are you keeping that Mario kart? - Oh, we're not keeping it. - Okay, come on. (rousing music) This is war, Tareq! - War! - All right, guys, can All right. If you don't mind. (rock music) - [Karl] Oh, this is really bad. This is the price of being dumb. Their plans backfired. - That's what you guys They really burnt my Mario kart. Put the camera on it, and they burned it. - [Man] You can't breathe in that room. - But you can breathe in this one. Why would they set it on fire? - I'm mad. Karl's trying to sabotage me. (upbeat music) How long have we been here - Six hours. - Still in the circle, going strong. Any tips you would give - Don't get out. If you're not me, then get out. Tareq, get out. - We had to get a pee bucket and we wanted to make it feel like home. And here we go. - Get that pee in (laughs). (upbeat music) - Guys, it's getting pretty late. - I have no concept of time right now. - Before bedtime, you guys are - All right. - Okay, I'll pop that one. - Karl, you got a blanket. - And Chris, you got mannequin. - Okay? Okay. - Karl, here's your blanket. Chris, here you go. You guys are gonna pop two more balloons. - I would love a bed. - Nintendo Switch. - Yeah. Yes! - Here is your Nintendo Switch. - It's dead (laughs). - I forgot to charge it. - What's wrong with you? - There you go. Let's see. - Tyler, I'll let you read it. - And inflated... - Inflatable bed. - With your lung. - I'm cutting off lights. There you go. This is - So you watching this video or those other two guys - in that room, - You can control their entire life. - Just tell everyone about it. This is the first time we've so let's see where it goes. - First time we've ever laid on an air mattress together, Tareq. - Yeah, you're very close to me. (upbeat music) You can't sleep with them down the hall making all that noise. I'm afraid I'm gonna fall off the bed. - Should I give 'em a good old yeehaw? - [Chris] Yeah, give it the yeehaw. - Yeahaw! Yeehaw! - [Narrator] Two hours later. - We're trying. - Oh crap! Okay. - [Chris] Oh crap. Oh, the bed's on fire! - Oh no. Oh, fire. - Give us water. Hurry, shut up! - Shut up, please go. - [Man] Got him! Ha! - So this is what I wake up Chris and Karl started a fire. I don't know what happened. It's gonna be a very long night. - We're never sleeping, baby! (siren blaring) - No sleep! (gentle music) - [MrBeast] Good morning. You're gonna survive a whole week in this? - Look, as long as we - This is my first time waking This is maybe the hardest thing ever. - Good morning, gentlemen. Karl picked breakfast Here you go. - [Karl] And today's course is... - [MrBeast] What do you think you got? - Oh, look at that. It's a single grape. - [MrBeast] Okay. Karl, why did you do this? - [Karl] 'Cause we're fine dining, baby. - How do you like your grape? - That's a pretty good grape. - All right, I'm gonna Hello, gentlemen. Here's your breakfast. - What did Karl get us? - A grape. - Bruh. so if you're hungry - Hey Karl, what happened to pancakes? - I figured this was a better substitute. - Oh, thank you. - No worries, we're just staying healthy. (upbeat music) - So we're approaching 24 Still feeling pretty strong. Gotta get this dub, man. - We got some good sleep last night. This is gonna go far, I think. - Every hour I'm gonna lay a strip of tape and block off your circle. And whenever someone gets I'm gonna cut it by a third in an hour. And then another third. Now I'm gonna go until someone gets out. - It's ours. - Chandler came by. He Karl, you're Chandler's - Good enough. - They're almost 24 hours in. Do you think you'd still be in? - No. - They literally set the - We used this arm contraption. (MrBeast gasps) I didn't. I promise I didn't. Look, look, please look. Please look. I promise. - It's there. - I promise. I'm not kidding. - Dude, I'm here for three seconds. I'm sorry. Get outta here, Chandler! (laughter) I have some footage I I cut their circle by a third. - Okay. (gasping) - Let's see what you think about this. - What is that? He's out. He's out. He's so out. - [Karl] No, I'm not! - He's out. - I don't even have to show you. - If it happened, it happened. - The line disappears - [Chris] Thanks. - I want to bestow upon you a little gift. How about my can of beans? I'm gonna go home. Bye, guys. Karl, what happened? - I lost, that's what (upbeat music) - This video of a baby has 875 million views. And I would argue what we're doing is better than a baby which means this video should and thus resulting in the winner getting over $870,000 for winning. Now I'm not saying that's gonna happen, but I am saying this is than a baby biting a baby. - How many challenges have you been in? - Everyone that's ever happened except for probably five of them. - And how many do you think you won? - Enough. - Did you just say enough? - No, I said not enough. - Oh, I don't know, man. We heard enough. (upbeat music) - I'd be lying if I didn't say I wanna take all the winnings from this and give it to my parents. I'm not quitting this - Second time in a last Another circle video. I gotta get my mom some money. She just lost her job. But if I win, I'm able to help her out. (gentle music) - [Tyler] Can't you literally just wait til tomorrow morning? - Smells gonna stay in here all - [Tyler] I can't help it. (gentle music) - This is day three in the I'm just bored of sitting in this circle. - We are now on day number three and there are still three people left. People need to get out and Me and Karl are gonna connect So technically, they can go to each other's We laid one strip, now it's - Oh, it's not easier. - Let's do it. All right, Chris, things - [Chris] What does that little pathway? - [MrBeast] Don't step out or you lose. - I'm allowed to step in this hallway? - [MrBeast] Yep. I haven't seen the - Chris, I haven't seen you in days, bro. - This pathway is connected to his circle. Chris, come on in their circle real quick. You've got five minutes and I don't care what circle you're in. You can go to the other circle. You have five minutes. - Let's see what his circle looks like. - I do want to go to his circle. You don't even get it, dude. I feel so good walking I wanna follow Chris. So if Tareq wants to stick around we can all be at the same place. - Yeah, why don't you guys They're all chatting in the circle. I say we just pull the - Okay. All right, you're stuck. Sorry. - I don't think that was five minutes. I was actually gonna sabotage him and go, can I still make the jump? - Nope. Sorry. This isn't the only thing I'm Two of you aren't gonna win. One of you might as well get out. - Hey, I got something to show you guys. Can you come to my room? Oh, get mooned! Get mooned! (upbeat music) - So you guys all just kinda - Yeah, you gonna take our bed? - Might have to, it looks kind of comfy. Thank you for the bed. We're Okay, these are the new parameters. Does anyone have a problem with them? - I have a little problem with - Is this harder? It's harder but I so I can sprawl out. - All three of you sardines still have small circles. Bye. It's insane that they've in these circles. Do 'em a favor and watch Whoever wins deserves the extra money. Tareq, duck. Cut your circle in half. Which side do you want? - Wait, I'll be doing My semi-circle got cut in half. - Your semi, semi-circle. - Oh, man, he's going through these. - Here you go. - Here you go. - Oh yes, a mini fridge full of drinks. - Pillow. Here's your heavy fridge. - You don't understand how - The wall of balloons is leaving. You're not getting anything. What are your guys' thoughts on this? I'm just gonna nap through it. - How much worse could it get? (laughter) - These guys are dooking it out, so make sure to watch so whoever wins gets lots - Please. and share it and like it I'm gonna leave you guys alone. All three cameras are on. Have fun. This is going way too long. Next time I go in there, I'm gonna have to make it hard on them. (upbeat music) You're approaching day I'll be right back. Karl, you cut Chris's circle - This is parallel to your toe. - I think we should yoink Tyler the same. Tyler's circle is now that. There you go. (upbeat music) - [Tareq] You might get sick - Oh! That was a headshot! - I'm getting tired of getting peed on! Getting tired of getting Banged on! This is it! - Chris, whether or not you did spray Tareq. Give me the tape. Smaller. - No, smaller- - You are crazy. Thank you, Jimmy. Love you! - They'll give up eventually. (dramatic music) - We have the heat set to 92. We're doing it. Trying - We've been in this for 57 hours. - Oh my gosh, it is so hot in here. What am I gonna do with you guys? - We're making it harder on ourselves. - Yeah, but someone's gotta - Smaller circles. - We're all standing. - [Tyler] My legs are wobbly right now. - This might be confusing, That's his new circle. And that's Tareq's new circle. It is now much harder, guys. - My feet hurt. I just - Knees are hurting, my arms (upbeat music) - [Tareq] That feels amazing by the way. - Is it harder now? - Slimy. - [Tyler] Hope you understand - [Karl] So you have (mimics sneezing) - Ooh! (dramatic music) - Ooh! - [Karl] I think he's out. - [Chris] Why'd you push me? - [Karl] I didn't push you. - If Karl pushed him, that's But if Karl didn't push You can't put your hands on the ground. Let's review the tape. Did you push him? - I don't think so. - Oh yeah, there is no push. The only contact is - He didn't. He did not push him. - Karl didn't even touch you, Chris. - I've cost you a lot of money, thank you for costing me money. - You've cost Karl well So it's only fair if - Sorry, mom. I love you. It sucks that I got out that way, but mom, there's gonna I promise you. It's coming for you. - Final two. Me, Tareq. This was our plan the whole time. But it shouldn't have taken I'm really tired. - [Crowd] Yay! - knees' looking little - This feels weird. (upbeat music) Bye. - Wait, Chandler. - [Tyler] He didn't wait. - Don't let their hard work go to waste. Please watch this video a bunch of times. - [Tareq] So we're still It's crazy to think that we and then it got cut into three It's crazy. This all happened within the last day. We used to have our own room, Tyler. - Boys, boys, boys, it's been a while. Come on. Get out. - We might be a little delusional, but we're not- - Last offer I'm gonna make, $5,000. You have 10 seconds. Nine. - Eight. - $5,000 in cash. - [Tareq] I'm going 500 hours. - (gasps) Oh my, wait! I was expecting Tareq to get out. - Wait, is this real? Am I hallucinating? What just happened? - Five grand is way more 'cause it should have been zero. I should have been out way earlier. - To the people watching, every time they watch Every single time. I'm paying Tareq until the day he dies. - That's insane. That's literally Guys, please keep sharing this video. Share it to- to share the video, so - Sure. Yes. I'm not getting the money, 'cause my parents literally to give me the life that I have now. I want to hug Tyler. - [MrBeast] Every single time Tareq gets one 10th of a penny. Do your park, guys. He sat in I think he deserves it. (explosion)