By the late 1970s Ford of Europe could do Over 20 years they'd built up an unrivalled And with Ford's unparalleled marketing muscle the sales leaders. But they were sent into a tailspin in 1982 This is the Ford Sierra Story. (music) Ford had released the mark 4 Cortina in 1976, and by 1978 plans for its replacement were With Ford looking to make another step change early on that the new car would focus on aerodynamics. Less work to move air out of the way at high meant better fuel economy and acceleration. Petrol prices had quadrupled since 1973, and motorway at 70mph. What better way to encourage fleets to buy competitor's cars couldn't offer? The total cost of ownership would be lower The new car project was named "Toni", and would be headed up by Uwe Bahnsen who the mid-70's. The exterior design, by Patrick Le Quement, Piazza prototype. New car styling seemed to be moving towards highly aerodynamic cars like the Lancia Medusa concept. But there was undoubtedly influence from Rover's his desk. Ford's European and American management they were convinced to take a chance that New features like wheel covers would produce just 0.34; much better than the Cortina's The Cortina was a saloon, but the buying public, so that's the shape the new car would be Many designs were tried, but management went And Ford would show its styling direction in 1981, a design that would influence the If the public was shocked by this design concept, then it was too close to the Sierra's release Where the outside was revolutionary, the interior competition like BMW and Saab. The centre console would be slightly angled cockpit feeling. With the advancement of electronics, the new outside temperatures. Yes, thanks to early 80's car designers when you haven't done up your seatbelt started The underpinnings of the car would be pretty rear suspension created a more planted ride Power assisted steering was an option for drum brakes. The car would use the same reliable but not the previous car, ranging from 1.3L to 2.0L. was offered for taxis and others who valued A 5-speed gearbox was offered as well as the The Ford Sierra was launched in 1982 with to avoid. If you lived under a rock in 1982, Ford would The Sierra was apparently "man and machine So that was nice. But the public were turned off by the shape It's easy to think the public just weren't but the similarly aerodynamic Audi 100 was this new model to their hearts. Ford had judged car fashions to perfection 20 years, but this was their biggest misstep. And it didn't help that there was still sold, being offered at a good discount over Amazingly 11,000 Cortinas were sold in 1983, With Vauxhall / Opel introducing the classically time saw their family car market share slip. To make things worse, the Cavalier made much over the Sierra's old-fashioned rear wheel And with Vauxhall having a full and competent needed to look at Ford's competitors. But not everyone hated the design. London's Victoria and Albert design museum The reviews were good too. It was similar to the Fiat Multipla story past the looks. And the news wasn't all that bad, although a hit, outselling the old Taunus 3:1. Publicly Ford were proud of their new car, heads would roll. Uwe Bahnsen was side lined, and eventually Hmmm - not really! He went off to teach design at a Swiss college. Patrick Le Quement was denied promotion and was sent to the UK to work on the first Ford But Patrick's story was a happy one, helping with cars like the Renault Twingo. Ford were concerned customers would miss the so released the Orion. Despite being based on the smaller Escort leg room and boot space than the Cortina. Although the public had accepted the shift back with the Sierra, just as they did with The Sierra was hit with some major quality The car suffered from high speed instability on the rear windows to interrupt the air flow. The plastic bumpers would spring back and With all the bad publicity around the jelly throw in the towel and bring the Cortina back. However, that jelly mould shape translated With essentially the same 1.3L engine as the time dropped a second, and fuel economy leapt The 1.6L engine also benefitted from a 5-speed By the end of 1983 the Sierra was the Ford also launched an estate version, and and adjustable lumbar support. And with Ford releasing sporty Fiesta XR2 3-door Sierra XR4i in 1983. The car had the meaty Cologne 2.8L V6 from 0-60 was sub-8 second with a top speed just South Africa predictably released a souped-up In 1983 they added the 3.0L Essex V6 from XR6, and by 1984 they'd shoe-horned the over 200hp for motorsport competition. The Sierra hatchback and estate was produced XR4 version. And on the continent Ford experimented with The Audi Quattro had proved that 4WD wasn't the XR4i with 4WD to create the XR4x4 in 1985. The car lost its whale tail rear wing, and The car was popular and helped create a halo against the ever-popular Vauxhall Cavalier. And it certainly needed to. By 1984 the almost new Sierra had fewer sales Ford were keen to develop "world cars" had with the mk3 Escort, so brought both the its "Merkur" brand. With the Sierra name being used on GM trucks, quite a mouthful! With European Sierra production running at essentially hand-built each car for them. The car was roughly similar to the European US regulations with 850 new parts. But despite having a smaller 2.3L 4-cylinder 175hp and actually had similar performance But a combination of mediocre reviews, slow US safety regulations that would force a redesign Despite this being only sold in North America, in 1985 as Ford were keen to try the Sierra for a special car that they had in the works... And that car had been in the works since 1983. Cosworth had enhanced Ford's 2.0L Pinto to bolt into a Sierra. The twin cam 16v turbocharged engine was a car a top speed of 150mph and a 0-60 time In race trim it generated 300hp at a time The Sierra's regular gearbox just couldn't Ford tried the Borg-Warner T5 gearbox from and Borg-Warner had to create a custom gearbox. The car was a big success on the track, but The car would be known as the Sierra RS Cosworth the 0-60 time to around 6 seconds, and the limited Soon the RS Cosworth was on everyone's shopping Unfortunately for Ford this also included basic door locks. Despite more secure locks in 1987, the British uninsurable, and Ford had to abandon hot family By 1986 sales had started to pick up, maybe because other aerodynamically styled cars just got used to the styling, seeing it driving Regardless, Ford's bet was starting to pay And they tinkered with the styling, so it The car would continue to be a top seller The Sierra got a PS228M restyle in 1987. The front end and rear lights were revised, Other changes made the car look like a smaller But the main change was the addition of a With its distinctive front grille, the company But Vauxhall would strike back with the mk3 The 2.0L &amp; 2.3L V6 engines were dropped in In its place came fuel injected versions of The CVH was introduced to comply with tighter on the Escort in 1980. It was a little less refined but produced to the old engines. Ford of South Africa had been producing a in 1987 released one based on the Sierra. The rear end was completely different, and Ford of Europe loved it so much they started throughout Europe where it was particularly 1989 brought the Sierra 2000E, a nod to the And the Sierra was given a light facelift With the new Mondeo in the wings, and the Ford made the car higher spec with features The unrefined 2.3L Peugeot diesel was replaced better response times and slightly more power. But despite the restyle, the Vauxhall Cavalier By 1992 Sierra production was winding up, They threw them in a seemingly random fashion Cars with the same trim level might have manual injection even if you didn't order it! These cars are known as parts bin specials, for their high quality. The last Sierra was produced in December 1992. Ford sold just 7 cars shy of 1.3M in the UK The replacement would be the more conservatively like the Cortina, Ford had many Sierra's meaning some Sierras were still being sold The Sierra's legacy was one of a styling team had to work doubly hard to compete with a serious competitor. But its sporty XR4i &amp; RS Cosworth versions &quot;OK, so we've got a hit in Europe with "It's the Cortina in the UK, and the our large family car." "Gees, did everything get shrunk in the And why the two names. We need one name for this car. I like Sierra." "Isn't that what GM call their truck?" "Why yes, it is! But it's also a majestic, sweeping mountain And it'll prevent sneaky GM using it on "But they don't sell pickup trucks in "See, we're making progress already! Say, what's this new car gonna look like?" "Well the mk3 had American flair, then like three cardboard boxes had been taped Now we're thinking of making it look like "What, those crazy sea creatures that That sounds nuts!!!" "Ah, no, I see you've misunderstood I'm talking about a jello mould." "Oh, why didn't you say so? That would look awesome! I can't see any way that shape could fail!" Many thanks to Bob Oval at the Sierra Appreciation If you want to help, please subscribe or think Thanks for watching and see you in the next