- I can't believe I'm doing this. Be just careful. - This is the African honeybee. It's small but mighty, and it might be able to help walking the face of the earth today, the endangered African savanna elephant. Using a fascinating fact about elephants that few people know about, we are teaming up with a frontline in Tanzania to safeguard and make our friend, Phil, - Oh God. - We are Planet Wild, This is the Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania, one of the most beautiful and Once a massive volcano, it now hosts Africa's It's part of the spectacular a UNESCO World Heritage site, and together with the home to over 1000 African the largest animals walking Now, what's special about is that it's one of the few where they can still freely by borders or fences. And without them doing that, the Serengeti ecosystem it is today. That's because elephants are what's called a keystone species. It means they literally shape in ways that allow other For example, with a huge elephants keep the savanna open, which is vital for zebras and other plants animals to thrive. When all that food is digested, the dung literally across wide areas. And during the dry season, to dig watering holes that Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that it'll always be this way because the African elephant as their numbers and by almost 90% within a 40-year timeframe. To find out what the biggest is today, why there is hope, could be the solution to protecting these majestic creatures, we sent Phil from Planet Wild - You're looking into because I got up very early, but at the same time, very excited. I never saw any wild So hopefully, today is the first time. There's an elephant. The first elephant we see, When I was researching for this video, I've actually completely - Elephants are in many than most people think. Did you know that their that it creates underground sound waves, which can travel for dozens of kilometres? Elephants actually use this to each other, basically communicating and they receive these and can listen to these sounds with their sensitive feet are in many ways more delicate beings than they might first appear. And only a few decades much more of them. At the end of the seventies, over 300,000 elephants By 2014, that number had an existential decline. And even though the numbers thanks to anti-poaching policies, the remaining elephants still And that's because of around land use. Tanzania's population is has made entire areas of land unusable. In a search for new agricultural land, farms have extended into and their migratory roots, as we learned from Masaka Wild Survivors, who are working to protect the remaining elephants - Many people have invaded wild places, hence entering in competition of space between humans and elephants. - And that can be pretty dangerous because an elephant bull or 13 feet high, seven and can weigh up to 10 tonnes. That's basically a truck, can quickly get out of hand. It's important to understand elephants spend basically and they will eat everything leafs, fruits, roots and grasses. A field of crops like for example, will be consumed in no time, especially because it's So they might even trample on their path. This can mean a huge, even One of these farmers is to the elephant forest in - Other tactics to chase flashlights and loud noises. But all this is a dangerous If an elephant has had a with humans before, for example, it can react aggressively. And sadly, this has led to in the past. - And this makes the situation to solve compared to any in our previous missions. But Masaka's team has nature-based solution And all of that is based - Elephants are afraid of bees. That's right, the largest land of one of the smallest. You might have heard that but that's more of an urban legend. But they're actually afraid because even though elephants they still have very sensitive areas. Their mouth, their ears, and can hurt a lot if that gets stung. And because East African they evolve to be very And then, even an elephant gets nervous. And this brings me here to just east of the Ngorongoro Crater. The village farmland borders a from two sides where at any given time, up to a hundred elephants to get from the forest to a salt lake at the And at these geographical conditions, human elephant conflicts are inevitable. To avoid these conflicts in the future, wild survivors came up What if we created a to gently guide elephants away from human fields and settlements? That's exactly what they started doing. And the crazy thing, it actually worked. In case you were wondering here's a quick explanation is running through. Planet Wild is a new who wants to help restore our planet through monthly missions like this one. In our next one, we are saving turtles with the help of dogs. If you don't wanna miss it, make sure to subscribe and hit the bell. If you want these consider joining Planet Wild as a backer. There's a link in the description. There will also be more info at the end. But now back to the video. So how does a beehive fence work? At the end of the farmland the elephant corridor, Wild survivors have installed all connected through a wire. If an elephant tries to which will shake up the making them buzz around with only one option, abort the mission. - So we are basically using and also to protect farmers' crops. - And this simple idea has proven to be incredibly effective. Along the current implementation area, Wild survivors have been of human elephant conflicts from 63 to only five incidents per month. An amazing success, and that is minimally intrusive other species to pass. An incredible example of how nature itself often holds the solutions to to protect it. And of course, we wanted to - And that's why the Planet two kilometres of new beehive fence to further extend the Let's set the first one up. At the beginning, the That's because we are are human-bred bee colonies into the wild. Instead, the hives will be I want to show you how that looks, but for that we have to making thousands of bees swarm out. And that's the part I'm because I'm super scared of bees. Oh God. - The only advice that I want to the beehive is just You know, we have the the zooming sound and also a single bee sound. - Yeah. - So both sounds normally - Oh God. - Phil, I want you to hold this. - Oh God, It is an insane feeling to have thousands of bees buzzing around you. I don't know if my heart but with time I became calm and actually enjoyed the and it made me appreciate them. Our planet wouldn't look the same without their relentless work. Through their pollination services, they're literally fueling from the ground up and now It actually wasn't that I mean, I'm full of adrenaline right now. But, I did it. - For this mission, we have decided to do You can now add 100 bees to the fence by leaving a comment below We will then go and set up of beehives on top of So go hit the comment section additional beehives we can instal together and further increase protection - What makes all of this even more genius is that this fence doesn't just protect both farmers and elephants. It also provides a stable income to a local women's to build a honey processing empowering women entrepreneurship to make fencing a growing success. - And to help bring this final we are bringing even more support. Therefore, the Planet Wild two beekeeping and enterprise trainings for the women collective in this area to close the loop on the and create a true win, win, win outcome. - With the additional beehives to rapidly expand the of over 1000 elephants, through the Upper Kitete all while saving dozens of farmers' crops and thereby livelihoods and empowering women This mission is an amazing out of the box can hold the key to many of the environmental The beehive fence of and buzzing example of that. And I'm happy that our side for Phil's biggest fear You too can make our by joining Planet Wild as a backer. Together we can protect clean up our oceans, (indistinct) As a member, you get to vote connect with me and others on our discord, and see your on impact So make sure to sign up today. There's a link in the description. And of course a big thank you goes out to all our existing Planet of this possible. You have just unlocked in our app, well deserved. If you want to watch some more, go check out our two previous missions over here or down here. Alright, that's it from my side. See you all again next month. Over and out.