They are among the most fierce and dangerous Morgoth. While the most famous of their kind the greatest and most vile would Today, on Nerd of the Rings, we We don't know the exact year but we do know the reason. In the early great blows against the dark lord in war. where the Noldor held Morgoth in check within win him victory in battle. Thus, Morgoth The father of dragons was not a winged all the initial dragons of Morgoth's design were Glaurung reveals himself for the first time, from Angband and manages a small victory, despite strength. He pushes the Noldor from Ard-galen and Wethrin. He begins to defile Ard-galen Fingon, along with a company of mounted archers, causing him to retreat back to Angband. Morgoth himself prematurely, and would not allow the Finally, in 455, Glaurung is fully grown, leads Morgoth's largest army of utterly burning the lands of Ard-galen, creating 17 years later, the free peoples would strike back of armies in both the east and the west marches battle, Glaurung and his dragons enter the fight The strength and terror of the and Elves and Men withered before him; and he and swept them apart. The elves divided, Glaurung where he would have destroyed the Noldor, were Azaghal. The dwarves, with their great battle and Glaurung's skin was not so tough that the dragon with their axes, and Glaurung, with his last breath, Azaghal drives Glaurung flees from the battle, yet the battle and dwarves would have catastrophic known as the Nirnaeth Arnoediad It wouldn't be until 40 years later that by Morgoth. By 495, Morgoth controls and there are few who openly oppose him. One is convinced to act in open hostility by after a number of attacks on his forces, Morgoth In another ill-advised move, Turin enemy in the battle of Tumhalad. The and Turin is unable to reach the city before the crosses the river Narog, and In this moment, we learn of another power of Turin arrives at Nargothrond to find the city he is transfixed by Glaurung's gaze The captives of Nargothrond are led with a choice - to pursue the captives or return to Dor-lomin and rescue his mother and Then suddenly Glaurung withdrew his glance, waking from a hideous dream. Then coming the Dragon. But Glaurung laughed, I will slay you gladly. But small help will give to the cries of the Elf-woman. Will But Turin drawing back his sword stabbed at towered above him, and said: 'Nay! At least And they lie who say that we of our part do not freedom. Go to your kin, if you can. Get you of these days, then surely in scorn they Then Turin, being yet bemused by the eyes of the could know pity, believed the words of Glaurung, But as he went, Glaurung spoke behind him, saying to Dor-lomin! Or perhaps the Orcs shall come Finduilas, then never shall you see Morwen As Turin turns north to Dor-lomin, the for Turin has fallen for the dragon's lie. For dwell safely in Doriath. Glaurung drives away the bridge. He lies down to sleep on his great hoard, The following year (496), Glaurung encounters seeking news of Turin. Quickly detecting their steam and stench to cover the area. The women and face to face with the dragon, who also puts Glaurung uses his power to wipe Nienor's mind of As Glaurung returns to his conquered city, the elves accompanying Nienor and Morwen. connection between dragon and master, as But he turned before he went in and looked back of Morgoth, dim but horrible, as an echo of malice cold and low, came after: 'There you lie like a you run the errands of Thingol. Haste you now to Glaurung would rule Nargothrond as a dragon-king parties of orcs to attack the mannish realm of once more. The following year, Glaurung sets Turin predicts the dragon's path, and taking Turin hides out in the gorge of Cabed-en-Aras, legs across, Turin stabs him with his Even in his final moments, Glaurung is dangerous dragon, it's blood covers his arm, and renders comes upon the scene to discover her husband reveals his ultimate deception - that Niniel is her memory. In despair at the truth, and the loss from the brink and is lost to the river far for himself from another who had heard Glaurung's With Glaurung dead, Morgoth had his first dragon would not be his greatest. Other parentage or simply others of the same species Just 11 years after Glaurung's death, great hope of the Noldor. For he had finally Gondolin. He sends an army of Balrogs and dragons and much of its population is destroyed. While we are told they were "many and terrible." Aside from Glaurung, we know the names of only of whom we know only its name, which means "dread War of Wrath, which begins in 545 FA. Finally send the Host of Valinor to Middle-earth, where a even some valar, make war upon an uncountable This war would last for 40 years. In the final of his forces, Morgoth unleashes his last never before seen in Middle-earth. The overwhelmed by the sheer devastation of the are led by Ancalagon the Black - the largest and The skies erupt with lighting and flame as As it appears that Ancalagon and his winged help comes from the skies. Earendil, arrives in his ship - blessed with Alongside him are the great Eagles The aerial battle lasts for an entire day. In the mightiest of the dragon-host, and cast him Thangorodrim, and they were broken in his ruin.&quot;. and with him, the hope of Morgoth's their lost ground and more - destroying Lord would be captured and thrust through his army were scattered - including orcs, The dragons would flee to the Northern Waste - would live on, infesting and breeding in the area future great dragons that would plague the dwarves As for the Second Age, we are given no specific we do know that they posed a serious threat in the Silmarillion we read of the men who "and Men dwelt in darkness and were troubled in the days of his dominion: demons, and unclean Orcs that are mockeries of the Children But it was not only the men that would be for in the Third Age we would see the Uruloki or "fire-drakes" as well While we know Smaug would sack Erebor in to find the most likely origin for this defeated at the end of the first age, there are not to mention at least one balrog. And today's story. In 1980 TA, the balrog is King Durin VI. This leads to Durin's death Driven from their home, a contingent of Durin's the Kingdom Under the Mountain, in 1999. Most in the Grey Mountains, to the Northwest of about a specific dragon comes in the following treasure from the dwarves of the Grey Mountains, ancestors of the Rohirrim. You can learn more Over 200 years after the Lonely Mountain (2210) so he and his people can rejoin the There they would live in relative peace until the of the north had multiplied and became a mighty the Grey Mountains and begin plundering the halls their own for nineteen years, but in 2589, the King, his son Fror, and likely many others were by a cold-drake - a name for a dragon that could After this final blow in the War of the Dwarves abandon their home. With the death of King Dain grandfather of Thorin Oakenshield. Thror re-establishing the Kingdom of Erebor. Gror, the folk to the Iron Hills, where they create another also known as Ironfoot - who would later succeed It's important to note that we don't know whether Mountains. Both Smaug and Gandalf refer to him but old and strong when Bilbo comes there in either too young to partake in the war - or With the War of the Dwarves and Dragons again have a period of peace - this time the Kingdom Under the Mountain flourishes. the form of the greatest dragon of Like many others, Smaug hears of the he flies south and sacks the kingdom under the "like a hurricane". He attacks at night, catching is said he first lands on the mountain itself, and setting them ablaze. The dwarven warriors but are all killed. Smaug then turns his attention including Lord Girion - the ancestor mountain slaying more of the dwarves Thror and his son Thrain II survive the attack who was just 24 years old at the time, was one during the attack, and manages to escape as well. for his own. In the aftermath, the area of Erebor comes to be known as the Desolation of Smaug. are left to their exile - eventually coming to the War of the Dwarves and Orcs, culminating in later, in 2802, Thrain II - now king of his people For over 170 years, Smaug dwells with his presumably to hunt for food. We know night and come to Dale and carry away until Dale is ruined and all Smaug broods upon his treasure for a total of dragon-sickness to come upon the treasure. This know it is put upon gold on which a dragon has Fram of the Eotheod who killed the dragon Scatha Despite the fact that this treasure likely before being taken by Scatha. It is believed that Now, if you're curious what the dwarves his treasure - check out my video on Thorin Baggins makes his way into the depths of Erebor October 22, Smaug takes notice. In The Hobbit it their wealth, but they know it to an ounce as a was no exception." This angers the dragon, who for the culprit. He doesn't find Bilbo and the The next day, Bilbo returns to Smaug's lair, Smaug is enraged by the idea that they would dare Laketown likely assisted this thief and his on the lake. Smaug flies over the lake, avoiding the town ablaze and destroys the great house with a thrush flies to Bard the bowman. The dwarves of the bare spot in Smaug's armor and his last arrow - the black arrow, which had been spot on the dragon's left breast. Smaug falls Smaug is slain, but his effects would be treasure would claim at least two as he refuses to part with any of the treasure events of The Hobbit. When King Dain gives the what the dragon had destroyed. The Master the waste - a region north of the Lonely Despite the Master's treachery, Lake-town would Smaug's bones remained at the location of the could be seen from the shore, but that no one that had lined his belly - even in death, Smaug's While we don't know of any other dragons by name that there are dragons still around after when Gandalf reveals to Frodo that Bilbo's ring said that dragon-fire could melt and consume the left on earth in which the old fire is hot enough; the Black, who could have harmed the One Ring, the It's yet another fun thing to think about - the While Sauron and Morgoth understandably get villains, I find Smaug and his kind to be worthy I would often choose Glaurung as my favorite common element of fantasy storytelling, there is something truly special about the dragon to the vile worm Glaurung, to the Middle-earth are among the very best in history. my patreon and YouTube supporters who make this Rabbi Rob Thomas Charles Leisure CCDC red team traveler Matthew Jeffrey Viking Lord Alvin Ebert Sky carcass slide belts Dane Ragnar Berto Berg woo and Debbie if you enjoyed the artwork in this to purchase prints of their great work for