Tell me if this sounds familiar. You're just casually playing Super Mario But what'd you hit? It doesn't look like there's anything you to be hitting something in that spot. So this is what we call an invisible wall, Now for most people, invisible walls are like You may have seen clips like this. Uh! What was that? There's an invis wall there? Or like this. I got invisible wall! Or like this. What! What the F. What the F. And invis wall. Yup. Yu-up! Or like this. Why's there an invisible wall there? Yeah, why IS there an invisible wall there? Why do all of these strange interactions happen? For decades, invisible walls have tormented of confusion. Because nobody really seems to know what invisible So, I made it my mission to answer that, and So come with me on this journey as we delve walls. This is, invisible walls explained, once and But before we get to invisible walls, there 64 that we need to go over first. So, all geometry in the game is made up of Now there are 3 different types of surface First, there are floors. Floors are the triangles that you can stand Second, there are walls. Walls are the triangles that you can push, We color them green. And third, there are ceilings. Ceilings are the triangles that if you jump trajectory. And some ceilings even let you hang on them We color ceilings red. Now, one important property of a triangle Think of a triangle's normal vector as an triangle. Interestingly, it's the direction of a triangle's triangle is a floor, wall, or ceiling. If the normal vector's pointing upwards See, even these triangles count as a floors, tiny bit upwards. On the other hand, if the normal vector's is a ceiling. So even these ones are ceilings, because their And finally, if the normal vector's pointing sideways, then the triangle is a wall. So now you know the 3 kinds of triangles: vectors point upwards, sideways, and downwards, Note that here I'm showing the triangles from this angle. Now we're gonna talk about the triangle in the area around them. So let's start with floors. A floor's hitbox extends 78 units below Mario up onto the floor. So we can see that as Mario enters the hitbox, But now let's make this visual more precise. You see, Mario's position is the point at represent with this symbol. So when I talk about Mario entering a hitbox, bottom center of his model enters the hitbox, hitbox. Also, Mario doesn't move around continuously, with yellow arrows. So let's watch it again. Mario moves to the right, one arrow at a time. And now he's about to enter the floor hitbox. So on the next step, Mario enters the floor In other words, those two arrows happen on below the floor. Here's what a floor snap looks like in the Mario walks towards the wooden post and then If we have multiple floors in a row, then So his height increases each time he reaches That's how climbing stairs works in the And if the floor is at an angle, then Mario So in this case, his height increases continuously. And that's how ramps work in the game. Though, note that floors will also snap Mario works too. Now let's talk about walls. A wall's hitbox extends out 50 units on lower down than the wall triangle itself. Its effect is that it pushes Mario sideways vector, which in this case is to the left. So we can see that as Mario enters this hitbox, flush with the wall's hitbox, and also putting Just like before, the arrow for Mario going pushed out of the hitbox happen on the same So we don't actually see Mario inside of the And so now, if Mario just keeps walking into the wall in a state of equilibrium. Like on every step, he goes a little into then goes a little into the wall, and then So that's what's going on when you push So even though Mario's position is 50 units like he's touching the wall because his In contrast, if Mario enters the wall hitbox from the wall. Because this time, he gets displaced almost Here's what that looks like in the game. Though, you're not normally meant to go And then for ceilings, their hitbox extends upwards. Now the lower portion and upper portion have varies based on what action Mario's in, First, if Mario's on the ground, then the So you can see that as Mario tries to enter prevents him from entering the ceiling hitbox. And he also does the pushing animation when Here's what that looks like in the game. So note that even though Mario's 160 units like his head is touching the ceiling because Second, if Mario's in the air and tries depends on whether he's moving upwards or If he enters a ceiling hitbox while moving his vertical speed gets set to 0. This cuts short his upwards trajectory, since due to gravity. I mean, gravity gets applied every frame you're things, and only applying it when it's relevant So here's jumping up into a ceiling in the It cuts short Mario's upwards movement, On the other hand, if he enters a ceiling horizontal component of his movement gets component, which is moving straight down. Like, ceilings aren't gonna cancel the whole the air, and I have a hunch the programmers So here's what falling into a ceiling looks It cancels Mario's horizontal movement to hitbox, but he still falls down. And then third, if Mario's in water, then but instead snaps him down to the bottom of So we can see that as Mario enters the hitbox, Here's what that looks like in the game. Mario snaps down as soon as he enters the And if the ceiling is at an angle, then Mario So for example, if I swim into the ship, I Now, you may find it strange that ceiling Like, if a ceiling triangle's right here, up here? Well the thing is, most of the time, you only The upper portion is usually out of reach, In fact, ceilings typically fall into one Case 1: We're in an enclosed room, so the In this case, the hitboxes prevent you from Like, if you try to exit downwards, the floor If you try to exit sideways, the wall pushes And if you try to exit upwards, the ceiling upwards trajectory. So in this case, the room keeps you inside, up here interacting with the upper ceiling And then case 2: There's an enclosed structure, Now, I said ceiling hitboxes extend infinitely isolation. Cause you see, when there's a floor above extends upwards until it meets the floor hitbox. So you can see that the inside of this box hitbox. And once again, this upper portion is inaccessible, Like, if you try to enter going downwards, If you try to enter going sideways, the wall And if you try to enter going upwards, the your upwards trajectory. So in this case, the box keeps you out, and interacting with the upper ceiling hitbox. One other note, you can see that the triangle into question, which ones take priority? Well, that's actually pretty simple. Wall interactions happen first, so I put their Then floor interactions, so they're on the And then ceiling interactions, so they're Now, even though ceiling hitboxes cancel Mario's a ceiling hitbox, like by having an object For example, here I have a bob-omb push me on the underside of the cog. So now I'm actually stuck, because the ceiling let me jump up either. Separately, here's what it looks like to Mario just falls straight down, since any And so there, we actually did touch the upper above the ceiling of the tunnel. So anyway, now we know the hitboxes of the But there's one other hitbox that's also Now the term "out of bounds" can mean Like, a person might say that getting right somewhere that you're intended to go in But that's not what we mean in this case. See, the most useful way to define out of no floor triangle below. So if our entire course was just this one be out of bounds. So that's everything to the side of the Think about it like this. The default state of space is out of bounds, Also note that we color out of bounds gray, why in a moment. Now for the most part, Mario isn't allowed If he's on the ground and tries to enter and he pushes, just like with ceilings. An easy place to see this is on the castle Just walk up to the edge and Mario will start If Mario's in the air and tries to enter of his movement gets canceled, and so he only So unlike ceilings, this happens for both That means you can jump up against out of trajectory. And finally, if Mario's in water and tries just gets canceled. There's not a normal place where this happens But if you clip into the tunnel in Wet-Dry fall into the tunnel AFTER the loading zone. Because of that, the town section of the level the end of the tunnel. This is swimming into out of bounds, so Mario's swimming in place. So the reason Mario's not able to jump off you can't move into out of bounds. There's no actual wall triangles on the And for courses with death barriers like Cool, of these courses is because the death barrier Here's a zoomed out view of the whole course. So you can see the death barrier is made up part of the course. And then here's a side view of the two courses. So Cool, Cool Mountain has a death barrier doesn't. The death barrier creates a safe haven all So that's why in Cool, Cool Mountain, you you can't do that in Bob-omb Battlefield. Now it is technically possible to enter out entering a ceiling hitbox. Like, our old trick with getting pushed by Because the game knows not to apply the object But nevertheless, there are still some ways For example, we can enter out of bounds by climbing up. We can jump into a cork box next to a steep We can have the ground move out from under floor. And we can have chuckya throw Mario out of As you can see in each of these cases, Mario why we give out of bounds the skull and crossbones But also when this happens, Mario stops having respawn. Now everyone always wonders, why does going Well let me explain. You see, Mario's logic every frame goes First, it resets his hat state, so he'll Then it lets Mario do his action, like say, And finally, it updates his hat state to be his hat again. And so his hat will be on by the time he gets So that's what normally happens every frame. But between steps 1 and 2, there's a check. Specifically, it checks if Mario's out of the function - don't do the rest of the So let's say Mario's currently out of to see what happens. First it resets his hat state, which makes Then the check ends the whole function since So we never get to step 3 where it puts his his hat. In other words, we're seeing the intermediate supposed to see. So anyway, now we know the 4 types of hitboxes Now you may have noticed that there's a and out of bounds, because they all basically So let's do a side-by-side comparison. On the left, we'll have Mario interact with In the center, we'll have Mario interact And on the right, we'll have Mario interact And just to clarify the ceiling case, there this visual, but I did find one. See, in the castle foyer, I clipped behind then used the speed to clip behind the upstairs Now opening that door loads a new area, so of fake area that you're not meant to be There's not many surface triangles here, So that means we can go to the edge of the specifically the ceiling of the hallway below So I just wanted to clarify that. So now let's compare the 3 cases. If Mario just walks forwards, then in all animation. Here's a diagram from above. See, the wall hitbox lets him go into it and be flush with the hitbox. But the ceiling and out of bounds hitboxes be flush with those hitboxes. But now watch what happens if we try pushing In the wall case, we do a side-stepping animation. But in the ceiling and out of bounds cases, See, the wall hitbox lets you enter the hitbox which lets you move along the edge of the But the ceiling and and out of bounds hitboxes end up moving along their edges. So to recap so far, the pushing animation It can happen for ceilings and out of bounds Though the side-stepping animation IS specific Now let's see what happens when we jump For the wall and out of bounds, the jump goes But in the ceiling case, the jump goes nowhere, hitboxes cut short your upwards trajectory. So in this case, Mario doesn't even leave So in our bullet points, let's add that upwards speed. And just to keep the bullet points lined up, one that kills you. But now let's see what happens if we jump downwards portion of the trajectory. In all 3 cases, Mario's forwards movement place. So just like with the ground movement, the pushes him back out, while the ceiling and But that's just for jumping at a slow speed. If instead Mario jumps into the hitboxes moving does a soft bonk. You know, a bonk without any star particles So let's add that to our notes. And if he jumps into the hitboxes moving at like a dive or slide kick, then in all 3 cases and Mario falls off his feet. So let's also add that. But now listen to the sound of each bonk. See, when you bonk on a ceiling or out of while the wall doesn't do that. And so let's add that to our notes too. So overall, you can see that the 3 cases are They all let you push on them and they all So it's easy to see why people might confuse Someone might see Mario pushing, and think pushing on out of bounds. And someone might see Mario bonk, and think on a ceiling. So just keep in mind how similar these 3 types Now, we're almost ready to get to invisible we need to cover first, which is positional For example, here I'm showing Mario's Y coordinate, and Z coordinate. Each coordinate represents how far along Mario The X axis goes east and west, with east being The Y axis goes up and down, with up being And the Z axis goes north and south, with So take a top down map of a course. If we zoom in, we can see the grid of individual So a single unit in SM64 is incredibly tiny, And the extra bold lines are the X and Z axes. Now we're gonna analyze what a surface triangle I mean, surface triangles are usually way But we're gonna be looking at some pretty see how certain properties work. Now as you know, a surface triangle has 3 But what you may not know is that these 3 In other words, the vertices always lie on and vertical unit line. So a triangle might look like this, or like But it would never look like this, because The reason for this restriction is because And a short is a variable type that can only So it's impossible for a vertex to have So now let's consider this floor triangle. The question we're gonna be analyzing is, You might assume that it would just be this But that's not right. Let me explain, by filling out this little So Mario himself is at some coordinates, and Floats are another variable type, and they that can have decimal components. For example, let's say Mario's at X coordinate But that's not the point that the game checks or not. Instead, the game first converts those values Specifically, it converts the coordinates the game checks to see whether it's within And like I mentioned earlier, shorts can only So to convert Mario's coordinates from floats and then chops off the decimal components. So it's not rounding, it's truncating. And so to summarize, even though Mario's first truncates those values to 1, -2, and the floor triangle or not. Why does it do that? I guess the programmers thought the calculations of floats, since floats can have slight rounding But anyway, let me show this on the grid using So Mario's here, at X coordinate 1.34 and I'll also add a highlight to Mario's current And then for the floor detection point, we we have to truncate the decimal components. So for the X coordinate, 1.34 becomes 1, meaning And for the Z coordinate, -2.79 becomes -2, square. So in general, the floor detection point will square closest to the origin. And that directly follows from the fact that the number will only get closer to zero. So now if we move Mario around in a continuous moves around in a discrete way. And in all 4 quadrants, the floor detection unit square closest to the origin. On the other hand, if Mario moves around within doesn't even move. In other words, all the positions within a because all of their positions truncate to Consequently, we can actually think of the for the whole unit square. So whatever floor status the representative the points within the unit square. So if the representative point is a floor, If the representative point is out of bounds, of bounds. And spoiler from the future, if the representative is considered ceiling. I'll demonstrate this principle with the We were trying to figure out where Mario can NOT just the area inside the triangle. So let's look at some points near the triangle's If Mario's within this unit square, then representative point for the whole unit square. The representative point is NOT within the indicate no floor. I'll also put a little arrow from the representative no confusion about which unit square it's And note that because the representative point closest to the origin, the arrow pointing square will always be facing away from the But anyway, since the representative point the whole unit square gray to indicate no So even if Mario were here, which looks like still count as being outside the triangle, outside the triangle. On the other hand, if Mario's within this point. This time, the representative point IS within to indicate floor. And then I'll put the arrow again. And now, since the representative point is unit square blue to indicate floor. So even if Mario were here, which looks like still count as being inside the triangle, inside the triangle. So going back to the whole triangle, the simplest it is the following process. First, mark all integer points that are within Then put the arrows facing away from the origin, And finally, fill in those unit squares. And so now, we can see the exact area where So the floor detection area isn't a perfect of a triangle. And because it's pixelated, we get some For example, if the edge of a floor triangle horizontal or exactly vertical, then the edge line. More specifically, if it's an edge that edge will coincide with the triangle edge. And if it's an edge that faces away from will be 1 unit offset from the triangle edge. On the other hand, if the triangle's edge a diagonal, then the floor detection edge Separately, note that ceiling detection works since it also converts Mario's coordinates So all the insight we just gained for floors points and how the ceiling detection area the ceiling triangle. And before we move on, I have one more note So in general, an integer point is the representative square away from the origin. But for integer points on the X axis and Z 2 unit squares. And the origin itself is the representative So I just wanted to clarify that. And so now, we're finally ready to start are. But how can we answer WHAT they are without In other words, what do we even mean when How should we define them? Because we can't find examples of them to as an invisible wall. So let's break it down. The term "invisible wall" has two parts To satisfy being invisible, we just have to For example, this would count as an invisible However, this would NOT count as an invisible And then to satisfy being a wall, you'd But think about it. A casual player can't see specific triangles Instead, a casual player would just go by After all, they say if it looks like a duck So if we apply that principle here, we'd on it like a wall, it's a wall. At least, it would seem that way to a casual So based on all that, our definition of invisible and bonkable, but has no visible texture. Now remember our discussion from earlier? We established that walls, ceilings, and out So really, an instance of any one of these wall, so long as there's no texture associated Now, surface triangles usually have textures. So a wall could only count as an invisible for it. A ceiling could count as an invisible wall so far away from the ceiling texture that invisible. And then out of bounds would always count with no surface triangles, and so it has no So those are the 3 things that can count as But from there, I've further broken it down 3 of them are pretty straightforward, 4 of one... well, let's just say it's the final But instead of thinking about them like this, gonna think about them like this, with 4 items the right, in a 2 by 2 table, like a Punnett So I basically created the periodic table And we're gonna spend the rest of the video Like, for each cause, I'll explain how it So, let's dive into the first cause of invisible See, most wall triangles have a texture. But surface triangles and graphics triangles game. Surface triangles have hitboxes that affect triangles are purely visual. Now for the most part, the programmers made graphics triangle. But there are some exceptions. And so if there's a wall triangle with no as an invisible wall. So let's look at some examples. In the hallway leading up to Bowser in the after the trap door. Obviously, it was put there because this whole meant to get to the end of it. Then in Tiny-Huge Island, there's an invisible course. So this is a rare case when there actually of just out of bounds. Now if you remember, when you swim into out and so you're just kind of stuck there until The programmers obviously didn't like that you can swim along the edge instead of getting Cause remember, walls let you move along them, And note that this wall is also present in Then in the slide in Tall, Tall Mountain, a little rectangle at the top of the end of So you might be wondering why that's there. Well, based on footage of the game's beta, of a left turn sign that used to be in that It's kind of blurry, but it's there all So that means at some point, the programmers but accidentally left in the collision. Also in the Tall, Tall Mountain slide, if end path, you can see that they put a big This is so that you can't fall off from Instead, they just wanted you to plummet to But since now we can see the exact edges of around it and land on a later part of the In fact, here I've landed on a part AFTER isn't even loaded. And so if I continue ahead, I just fall off Then in Big Boo's Haunt, there's an invisible It's like a little column sticking right See, the camera in this room is normally situated they wanted to prevent you from going through to turn really suddenly. But if we use hacks to remove that invisible were trying to prevent. See, the camera does a 180 in two frames, Then in Bowser in the Fire Sea, there are at the end. These were put there so that you don't accidentally then you'd basically have to redo the whole But also, there are some invisible walls under the ending trigger from the side. And finally, in Whomp's Fortress, there's the course. So why'd they put this one here? Well, it actually has to do with the water Let me give you a quick rundown on water. So here's the side view of a surface of Note that I'm making it purple, because So there are two important things to understand First, the hitbox of water extends from the Like, they never programmed water hitboxes And second, whenever Mario enters a water the water's surface and he goes into the Now normally, you wouldn't notice the height water hitboxes from the top, which means you'll your height gets set to near the water's So in most cases, this height change doesn't But there are some ways to enter water from upwarp to the water's surface. For example, in Tall, Tall Mountain, you can it. And from there, if you go forwards, you can level, causing you to upwarp to that water. And similarly, in Tiny-Huge Island, we can to the top of the water that's in the mountain. So going back to Whomp's Fortress, the reason from entering the water hitbox from the side. But they made a little oversight, because a gap. So you actually can enter the water hitbox for a nice party trick. In fact, you can say to your friend, "I Easy way to make money. So yeah, that's the first cause of invisible No Texture". Now let's look at the second cause, which Remember, I said ceilings usually come in or the bottom of an enclosed structure. I also said that the upper part of a ceiling that it just seems like its own separate hitbox So in these two cases, that would be above structure. These two areas are meant to be out of reach, which we'd count as interacting with an So let's look at some examples, starting Like we saw earlier, in Wet-Dry World, you the tunnel, which is an upper ceiling hitbox. If we bonk in there, our angle actually gets in the bonk action, he's programmed to reflect Since here Mario's surrounded by ceiling which looks pretty silly. In Hazy Maze Cave, it's actually possible And so then, we can have the platform move and so he ends up in the ceiling hitbox above In the castle foyer, like we saw earlier, And then you're able to push on the ceiling with the stairs that go down to the basement. And also like we saw, you can backwards long And that lets you push on the ceiling hitbox Now let's look at getting inside enclosed In Jolly Roger Bay, it's possible to clip is ceiling hitbox. And in Rainbow Ride, we can use a bob-omb And of course, their whole inside is ceiling So those are some examples of getting above But there's a third case that can happen. And that's if we have something that SHOULD a floor on top. In that case, the ceiling hitbox would just In theory, this should never happen in the Well, in the Tall, Tall Mountain slide, we And let me make the background white so that So let's look at the first arch. On its underside, we have some ceiling triangles. And on the topside, we have some floor triangles. So no problems here. But now let's look at the second arch. On the bottom we have some ceiling triangles, The programmers just didn't put any. So that means the ceiling hitbox isn't covered without anything to contain it. And what about the third arch? On the bottom we have some ceiling triangles, triangles. So on this arch too, the ceiling hitbox just And so basically, if you've ever tried to found that you're unable to, because Mario We call these exposed ceiling hitboxes, because ones are just right out in the open. They're exposed. And then there's actually a fourth case all by itself. Not the top of a room, not the bottom of enclosed whose hitbox would also propagate upwards Surely the programmers never did that, right? Well, in Cool, Cool Mountain, we have this At the end of the bridge are these two flaps These were clearly meant to be walls, but angled slightly downwards. And because the programmers didn't expect put any floors to cover them. So the ceiling hitboxes just rise upwards this is another case of exposed ceiling hitboxes. So watch out if you're ever playing around So yeah, that's the second cause of invisible Below Any Floor". Because if there's no floor above the ceiling, And if there IS a floor above the ceiling, So now let's look at the third cause, which If you remember from earlier, all courses have a death barrier. And that out of bounds is an invisible hitbox an invisible wall. So if the course doesn't have a death barrier, the edge of the ground. And if the course does have a death barrier, edge of the death barrier, which you can reach So that's the third cause of invisible walls, on Course Edge". And so those are the first three causes, which And that's because they directly correspond - walls, ceilings, and out of bounds. So think of these 3 causes as the simple, The remaining causes are more advanced implementations. So let's get to those ones now, by next Specifically, let's look at the fourth cause. Like I said, these causes are more complex. So instead of me saying the cause outright, so that you get some intuition. So imagine a structure like this. It's a staircase with 2 steps. Now let's look at this structure from above. Not just like this, but also on a unit grid, So there's a floor rectangle on the bottom on the top representing the upper step. Now I have 2 clarifications to make. First, a floor rectangle is just two floor Like, we COULD analyze this situation on the pair up the triangles into rectangles, and So that's what we're gonna do. And second, even though we're looking at they're at different scales. The 3d shape on the left is at a normal scale of units wide. While the shape on the right is scaled down wide. I made it really tiny so that it's easier So for example, if we rotate the two shapes, but the one on the right will deform, because integer coordinates, which has a big effect Now on the right side, the structure looks On the left side, the structure also looks Though if we look at the structure from the on that seam, which causes the floors on both So on one side of the seam, we have the floor north edge of the lower step. And on the other side of the seam, we have is the south edge of the upper step. The question we're gonna be analyzing is on the unit grid? And in this case, the answer is no, there The lower step's edge and the upper step's same lateral coordinates. So there are no gaps between them. Now if the floors were separated like this, But for now, there is no gap. So let's clear that, put the structure back rotate it to see if that causes any gaps between Now even though the two edges are changing So for example, at this angle, there are still still have the exact same lateral coordinates. So let's rotate the structure back to its the structure itself. You see that upper step? I've now split it into 2 steps. And you can see this change reflected on the So again, let's think about the edges that the upper steps. Or in other words, the edges at the bottom wall. This time, that would be the north edge of step, and the south edge of the upper-right Same question: Are there any gaps between The answer is no, but the reasoning is a little Because now, there aren't just two edges Instead, there are 3 edges: a long edge, and And notice that the two short edges connect edge. Because of that, we're gonna call that point In general, we'll define an edge-vertex lie laterally on another triangle's edge. So it's not meant to coincide with the other in the middle of the triangle's edge. And it doesn't have to lie EXACTLY on the So in theory, it could miss by a little. Now going back to the structure, we can see on the bigger edge. And because of that, there are no gaps between In the 3d view on the left, that means this edge. And just to clarify, I could mark the edge-vertex It doesn't really matter, because those up with each other, so laterally they're So going forward, we'll consider them to marking one of them. Okay, so let's clear all of that, put the let's rotate it again. This time, you may notice that something funky's grid. So let's stop it here. And now same question. Are there any gaps between the edges? Interestingly, in this case there IS a gap! And that's because the edge-vertex is no And how could it be? Because remember, triangle vertices MUST have But there are no integer coordinates that Earlier when the structure was cardinally exactly on the edge, because the edge went But now, since we're at a weird angle, the and so it's literally impossible for the Instead, it just has to pick integer coordinates That means there are two cases. Case 1: The edge-vertex overshoots and causes Floors overlapping like this is perfectly And then case 2: The edge-vertex undershoots And when there's a gap like this, then we Remember, the triangle area itself doesn't Instead, we have our little process for figuring First, we mark all integer points that are Then add the arrows. And finally, fill in the unit squares. Now you can see the issue. There are 2 integer points that aren't inside Consequently, their unit squares are NOT considered Instead, we call them floor gaps. And so basically, any structure that resembles Instead of this, it could look like this, It doesn't take very much. You just need a seam between floors, usually on either side of the seam to be subdivided That causes there to be an edge-vertex, which on another triangle's edge, specifically But if the structure is at a weird angle, its edge, causing there to be floor gaps. So to recap, we looked at four scenarios. Whether there was no edge-vertex or there And whether the structure was cardinally aligned And only when there was an edge-vertex at So those are the two main ingredients. Now I think it would also be useful to look So let's take this structure, put it sideways, And to make this easier to work with, I'm the floors. Now as we saw in the previous demonstration, two points to be misaligned, meaning that So what we're gonna do here is look at 5 order to examine 5 different slants of the The 5 slants are leaning very far back, leaning a little forwards, and leaning very far forwards. We're gonna see which ones cause there to So let's start with perfectly vertical. In this case, the two floors are exactly flush. Now for each case, we're gonna see what So first let's add the floor hitboxes, and upwards to see where it fills. In this case, the floors cover all of the is habitable. So I'll give this case a happy face. Then next, let's look at leaning very far Interestingly, when the wall triangle is this ceiling. And this happens in the game. There are triangles that are meant to be walls, actually ceilings. For example, in Cool, Cool Mountain, there's So even though it looks like a wall, you can't with it. And then in Rainbow Ride, there's this ceiling. It's meant to be part of the big house's it's actually a ceiling. So, we'll call these "wall-like ceilings", walls and are meant to be walls. So going back to our demonstration, let's again. Like before, the floors still cover all of In fact, we have some floor overlap in the So this case gets a happy face. Then next, let's look at leaning a little Here, the wall triangle is still a wall, just If we show the hitboxes again, we can see of bounds, with a little bit of floor to spare. So this case gets a happy face. Though, one big caveat here is that this angle In reality, walls can only tilt about this But I didn't want the arrows to be really So in these visuals, we're just gonna pretend for the sake of convenience. Then next, let's skip ahead and look at Now, the wall triangle is so slanted the other And this happens in the game too. For example, in Bob-omb Battlefield, the side meant to be a wall. But because it's a floor, you can walk on In Bowser in the Dark World, the side of this In Bowser in the Fire Sea, the side of this And in the castle courtyard, the side of this So for these ones, we'll call them "wall-like But what effect does this have in our demonstration? Well, first let's show the floor hitboxes. You can see that the original two floors are floor covers the area in between. So if we show the out of bounds area, we can the out of bounds. So this case gets a happy face. And then finally, let's look at leaning Here, the wall triangle is still a wall, just Now let's show the floor hitboxes. The two original floors are still separated cover the area in between. All we have is a wall there, but walls don't It's like the wall took on the responsibility powers of a floor. And so if we show the out of bounds area, leaks through the leaning wall. And that sliver of out of bounds would be This type of invisible wall has caused lots Like, think about this kind of invisible wall looked at. These 3 causes aren't actually that annoying. For the walls with no texture, those were going to places that you're not supposed So they don't really get in the way when to go to. For the ceiling hitboxes, those are mainly which are places that you don't normally Well, aside from the arches in the Tall, Tall Cool Mountain. Those ones CAN get in your way. And then for out of bounds on the course edge, they're in the way because they're only But for this most recent type of invisible out in the open. It could even be on the path that you're it out of nowhere while you're trying to So this type of invisible wall, along with some sense the REAL invisible walls. Because they're the ones that frustrate So I'm gonna give this case an angry face. So to summarize, we looked at 5 possible slants leaning slightly forwards causes there to through. If we move the upper vertex around continuously, range that lets out of bounds leak through. Basically, the wall triangle has to be leaning lower floor and upper floor, but the wall it acts as a floor that covers that gap. Now I think it would also be useful to see a top down view. When the wall leans very far back, the floors You can tell because the overlap area is an When the wall leans a little back, there's area. When the wall's perfectly vertical, there's The whole thing is just a uniform shade of When the wall leans a little forwards, now You can tell because there's some white And remember, that white area is actually really do anything. And finally, when the wall leans very far which covers the gap. So yeah, it's only the one case that causes But interestingly, floor gaps don't necessarily See, there are actually 3 cases for what effect below the floor gap. Case 1: There's another floor below the In this case, Mario can freely jump over the He can also go into the floor gap and fall are no wall hitboxes in the way. Then case 2: There are no floors below the Like we saw a second ago, this lets a tiny If Mario jumps into that sliver, he'll bonk. And if he walks into it, he'll push. And then case 3: There's a ceiling below This ceiling has a lower hitbox, but we don't It's the upper hitbox that causes a tiny So this would also count as an exposed ceiling And just like the sliver of out of bounds, lets us push on it. So it's only case 2 and case 3 that cause Now if you ever encounter an invisible wall it's from out of bounds or from a ceiling, so in the game, we wouldn't see the hitbox But remember, only ceilings cut short your So a quick and simple way to distinguish between wall. If it lets you jump up, then it's out of then it's a ceiling. So let's look at an example. In Bob-omb Battlefield, there's this wall Here are the floor edges on both sides of due to the steps. And based on those, here are the edge-vertices. Now you may be wondering why it looks like right. Well, they're actually different camera See, the one on the left is a perspective go farther away from the camera. So it's like the normal camera mode that In contrast, the one on the right is an orthographic regardless of how far away from the camera This orthographic view is useful, because view. So next, let's show all the course's floor And now we're gonna zoom in on each edge-vertex Like, does it cause floor overlap or a floor The way this one misses is by causing a floor the floors. Then for the next edge-vertex, it also causes And for the last one, this one's a little See, the bottom of the step and the top of they were meant to. That's what actually causes the side of wall, like we saw before. But anyway, this just means that we have two they both cause floor gaps. So let's zoom out a little. And now you can see that there are integer floors, meaning those points are out of bounds. Now let's remove the triangle fill color, out of bounds. For each of those integer coordinates, let's And then fill in those unit squares with gray And now let's pan across the seam so that of bounds. So each of the unit squares on the right represents through the leaning wall. And as we're panning on the right, I'm can see them in 3D. They're basically square columns that are each as one pixel wide because that's what's So that's the whole seam. Interestingly, there's one point near the so that point has two arrows and causes two So yeah, that's how the out of bounds units On the left, If we zoom in a bit, you can are extra close together, since they're And if we step back a little, you can see All the way to the top of the course, at a So it's pretty weird. There's just this invisible wall in the else. And of course, because it's an invisible spot, you may end up bonking on it seemingly On the other hand, you may end up passing So why is it that you only hit it sometimes? Well let me explain. Here's a top down view of the unit grid, on a seam like this. Now normally, invisible wall units are at But just to keep this demonstration simple, nice row like this. And let's say Mario's currently south it going north. Now it's important to understand exactly So Mario has a horizontal speed, which represents For example, if Mario's speed is 8, then But even that's a bit of an oversimplification, all at once. Instead, it takes his speed and subdivides steps". So a speed of 8 would be subdivided into 4 Then on each frame, Mario moves forwards by So in the game, you'd see Mario before he after he does the 4 quarter steps, but you because they happen mid-frame. But I'll still show them here because they're So here, I'm making full steps pink and distinguish them. Earlier when I showed movement arrows, they and full steps, because I was simplifying. But you see, it's only every full step that while it's every quarter step that floors, Since here, we're interested in whether ceilings and out of bounds, we're only gonna And I'll add even more arrows to his pathing, the invisible wall at any point in his pathing, Anyway, since Mario's moving forwards 2 That means there are two kinds of spacings: offset by 1 unit like this. You can think of them as, one covers the even squares. If we look at the invisible wall seam, you straight over the seam, while the pathing Since invisible walls stop your movement, and put this symbol at the collision point. So in this example, there's a 50% chance out of every two spacings hits it. Another way to see this is if we just take point continuously. You can see that half the time it makes it So that's why invisible walls can seem sort Even though they're always there and don't when you cross the seam. Instead, it just comes down to whether your So in theory, you could always avoid hitting but in practice, at least casually, that's But luckily, there are some other factors how often you hit an invisible wall. For example, your speed. So far, we've just been working with a speed But let's double that to 16 speed, which This time, we have 4 different spacings, which squares that are a multiple of 4, 1 more than 4, and 3 more than a multiple of 4. There wouldn't be anymore than that, because of 4, then really, it's just the same spacing step forwards. But anyway, you can see that only one of the that there's a 1/4th chance of hitting it. And just like before, we can also see this continuously. Most of the time it makes it through, but and stops. So at 8 speed there was a 50% chance of hitting was only a 25% chance of hitting it. So basically, the faster Mario's moving, wall, because more speed means your quarter more likely to pass right over the invisible Separately, your chance of hitting the invisible invisible wall seam. Currently, we're moving perpendicularly trying to avoid hitting the invisible wall. So that'll be the control case, and we'll angle. At this angle, each quarter step moves 3.5 Now if you think about this, the 3.5 units crossing the seam, and so it's like that this angle. It's only the 2 units forwards that makes If we move both cases vertically, you can wall twice as much as the control case, since a time while the angled case moves forwards So even though they're the same speed, the towards getting past the invisible wall. Going perpendicularly uses all of the speed a slanted angle only uses a component of the And now watch this. If we make Mario's angle even more slanted, 1 unit forwards. Since the invisible wall is 1 unit thick, See, no matter where he starts, his quarter cross the seam. So to recap so far, if you're trying to should be moving at a fast speed and moving But if you're trying to hit the invisible speed and moving nearly parallel to the seam. But there are also properties of the invisible hit it. Up until now, we've just been looking at which is a 1 unit thick, continuous seam. But invisible walls often don't look like For example, maybe we have an invisible wall thick. Now if we look at all the spacings, we can is a 50% chance. In other words, the thicker the invisible it. On the other hand, we might instead have something on the seam is an invisible wall. Now, not only do we have 4 possible vertical spacings, because you may or may not line To illustrate this, we can subdivide each So now, we have 4 different classes of vertical but one of them lands on the seam directly. Not necessarily on an invisible wall unit, And separately, we have 2 different classes One of them passes between the invisible wall invisible wall unit. So in total, that's 8 possible spacings, So there's a 1 in 8 chance of hitting it. Another way of saying it is, there's a 1 1 in 2 chance that we line up with an invisible you get that there's a 1 in 8 chance of And note that this is in comparison to before a one fourth chance of hitting it. But now that it's half as dense, we only is one eighth. So basically, the denser the invisible wall And finally, many invisible walls don't seam. For example, maybe it's more dense on the In this case, trying to cross it on the left to cross it on the right side is less likely So yeah, that's the basics of interacting That should help you understand and appreciate them. Now, I'm not just gonna show you just a That's not how we do things here. Instead, I'm gonna show you EVERY INVISIBLE For a few reasons. First, I want this video to serve as a reference they are and what they look like. That way, the next time you bump into one, it's there. And second, I want to show you just how prevalent this game is. That way, you won't feel so bad about bumping They're so abundant that you really didn't So, if you DO want to see every example because weirdness, then you can just sit back and And if you DON'T want to watch all the examples of it, that's fine too. You can skip forward to the next section using And so now, let's get into the examples. So also in Bob-omb Battlefield, we have this Based on how its edges are subdivided, it its edge by causing a floor gap. And so that means that all along this seam Note that the density of this invisible wall some gaps in it. And so basically, if you ever go above this wall. And remember earlier, when I showed that you reflected every frame? Well you can also do that on this kind of between two of the unit columns. Playing it again, if we pause it and zoom So on this frame, Mario does a quarter step This quarter step lands on a unit square of bonks. Though note that Mario's bonking animation on the left it doesn't quite look like he I mean, you can see the star particles, but But he's bonking, so next he moves backwards square of out of bounds. So that gets canceled too and Mario reflects And now since he's still bonking, he does which also lands on a unit square of out bounds. So that quarter step gets canceled and causes And now we're back to the same state as Mario just bounces back and forth between So yeah, that's why that can happen. Then still in Bob-omb Battlefield, we have mountain path. It has 2 edge-vertices on the top. Interestingly, the left edge-vertex causes edge-vertex on the right causes a floor gap, So near that right edge-vertex we have some 2 groups of them. Now this invisible wall is especially evil, Like, I can't imagine a worse place in Bob-omb on the far side of a gap you have to jump Then even still in Bob-omb Battlefield, we mountain path. It's kind of a weird shape, but it has one This edge-vertex misses its edge by causing unit columns of out of bounds near the bridge. And interestingly, if we zoom in on the bridge, actually rise up into the bridge, and so they But anyway, that means that for this gap too, hitting this invisible wall and falling into And one more in Bob-omb Battlefield, we have It has two edge-vertices. Zooming in, we can see that the right one a floor gap. So the result is that mainly on the left side out of bounds. And these ones are fully contained within So this means any time you enter or exit this Then in Jolly Roger Bay, we have this wall It has one edge-vertex on the top. Will there be a floor overlap or a floor gap? And it's a floor gap. I mean, it has to be, otherwise why would Now a cool thing about this one is that it so you can see each one of them individually. And since this one's in water, we can swim we just end up swimming in place. So it looks pretty odd. Then in the Jolly Roger Bay ship, we've So first, there's this lowest platform that And so it has an invisible wall on its edge. Then next, we have this slightly higher platform. Very similar thing going on here, because leading to another invisible wall. Then on one of the higher platforms, we have causes invisible wall. So that makes 3 platforms with invisible walls, And yes we can, on the highest platform of This time, the wall's a slightly different out of bounds. So yeah, those are the 4 platforms with this So if you thought climbing up these platforms of nowhere you might bonk on one of these But hey, at least now you know where they Or hit them on purpose if that's what you're I'm not here to judge. Then in Cool, Cool Mountain, we have this It's like an upside-down triangle, so it Now if we show all the floors except the death gaps. But this time, they're filled with ceiling Because if we look on the bottom of this structure, hitbox leaks through those floors gaps. So what that means is that all along the seam, through. Now as a general rule, in courses with death of floors gaps will be due to ceilings and Cause think about it. If the course has a death barrier, then the That means you wouldn't find out of bounds And it's not like the course geometry can how that works. Here's another way to think about it. Let's say we have a floor, and it has a In order for this floor gap to have out of floor under it, because that's what out But even if the main part of course doesn't is still guaranteed to be a floor under it. So it's just not possible to have out of Instead, the only way for there to be an invisible if there's a ceiling hitbox leaking through Because courses CAN generate their own ceiling Now let me clarify how jumping into ceiling Basically, there are 3 cases. Case 1: You move into the ceiling column while In this case, your quarter step gets canceled enough. Then case 2: You move into the ceiling column Then your quarter step gets canceled and the meaning you'll now start falling down. But then let's say you miss the ceiling speed changed or you're holding a slightly Then you'll pass right through the invisible it'll now be moving downwards. And then case 3: You move into the ceiling step gets canceled and it cuts short your column again on the next frame with your downwards Then just like the first case, your quarter you're moving fast enough. So it kinda looks like you went straight from a 2 frame process because of the way ceilings So yeah, those are the 3 main interactions of ceiling hitbox. So going back to the game, let me show you So first I hit the ceiling while moving downwards, Next I hit it while moving upwards and then jump. And then I hit it 2 frames in a row, so it to bonking, but it actually took 2 frames. And like I mentioned earlier, an easy way is to just walk into it and then try jumping. You can see that my jumps don't go anywhere, On the other hand, if we push against an invisible the jumps actually go up. Then next in Cool, Cool Mountain, we have It's a pretty interesting shape, cause there's And here are the relevant edge-vertices. So the first one misses by causing a floor Then a floor overlap. Now let's zoom out and hide some of the to see. So then we have a floor overlap, and the last And based on our earlier discussion, you should ceiling leaking through and not out of bounds, Now you can see that there are two sections The section on the left is due to this ceiling And the section on the right is due to this So these invisible walls could get in your coin star. And remember, the bridge flap invisible wall So surely there wouldn't be a third one Well, also in Cool, Cool Mountain, there's one we looked at. Now this "wall" is actually made up of And it's the big wall on the left that's It's another triangle, so it has one edge-vertex This edge-vertex misses the edge by causing invisible wall. The section on the right is due to this ceiling whole time. And the section on the left is due to this little cave. And so basically, if you're messing around this invisible wall. Now this invisible wall is interesting because 100 coins while doing the big penguin race, See, she uses the invisible wall to backwards That makes for a quick trip back up the mountain Now I've talked about backwards long jumping it. So let me do that now. So Mario has a move called a long jump that you're moving. Now the cool thing about a long jump is that by 1.5. Let me show this on a graph. If we start with 1 speed, and then continuously more each time, because each time it multiplies Now the programmers didn't want you to be capped it at a maximum of 48 speed. So a long jump will never go above 48 speed. BUT the programmers made a little oversight, So let's say we start with -1 speed. Now if we start continuously long jumping, since multiplying by 1.5 just makes these And this time there's no cap, because the a long jump can do. So basically, we can get unlimited negative And so we call it a backwards long jump, or Now, doing backwards long jumps doesn't speed. That's because even though the starting speed while he's in the air from the long So trying to backwards long jump on a flat Mario loses too much speed in the air. Looking at the speed value, you can see that long jump, but then it goes back to -15 by To avoid losing all this speed, we need to succession. So you can do this on a steep floor, because instantly, and so you can do a bunch of long You can also do it on a rising platform, because land instantly and can then backwards long And finally, you can do it using a ceiling, instead of letting you jump up. See, it's all coming together. So going back to the Cool, Cool Mountain TAS, show Mario's movement arrows. And I'll make the arrows green if they're So you can see that each backwards long jump column, which prevents Mario from jumping That allows Mario to do the next backwards build up speed very quickly by doing that. So see, invisible walls can actually be helpful Then in Big Boo's Haunt, we have this wall Now you might be wondering what floor the Well, there are actually some invisible, intangible giant gap in the floor. So why are they there? Well you see, when Mario's in a course with or two rooms are active at a time. Specifically, the game activates the room next to the door of. And the way the game figures out which rooms that Mario's above. So to put it simply, if Mario's above a If he's above a floor in room B, then room And if he's above a sort of intermediate A and room B will be active. Now this system works pretty well, but think The thing about this room is that there's down below. Since Mario's current room is based on which jumping over the gap would change your room That'd be bad, because then the room down room, even though you're still in that upper So to solve this, the programmers did two First, they added some invisible, intangible That way, even if you're above the gap, this upper room, and so the upper room stays And second, a bit lower down, they added a These floors are intermediate floors, meaning room. So when Mario falls into the gap, first the room and lower room are active, and then only So yeah, that's why these floors are here. And now let's resume the visual which reveals But this time, it's not ceiling or out of Remember earlier, I said there were 3 cases So far, we've only seen case 2 which is But now, it's our first time seeing case floor under it. So it's not actually an invisible wall, So in our demonstration, that means each of I'll put blue points to represent that. And remember, these are floor gaps in the So when Mario goes above these floor gaps, So doing that causes the lower room to also room, like the boo and red coin. So that's why out of nowhere, the boo can while you're in this room. And finally, since it's a floor gap with and fall down to the room below. What? What the H. Did anyone just see that? Then in Hazy Maze Cave, we have this mesh If you're not familiar with it, there's end. There's this path in the middle that leads And there's this path on the left that leads Now this one isn't actually an invisible a ceiling gap. Because remember, all the properties about So they can have edge-vertices that cause And the reason these ceiling gaps matter is and move into a ceiling gap, then you fall So anyway, on this mesh structure, we have We have this edge-vertex that lies on this And we have this edge-vertex that lies on So first let's look at this seam on the Its edge-vertex causes a ceiling overlap, So there's no risk of falling off if you Then next, let's look at the seam at the This one has 2 edge-vertices. The right one causes a ceiling overlap, and So this seam is also fine. Now let's look at the seam near the end Its edge-vertex misses by causing a ceiling along this seam. And I'm making them orange, because we need running out of colors here. Then next, let's look at the seam at the Just one edge-vertex, which misses by causing So on this seam too, there are ceiling gaps Not very good, since this is the path to the And finally, let's look at the seam near Just one edge-vertex again, and this one ALSO Which is extra not good, because that means gaps, which like I said can make you fall So in total, the mesh has 3 seams of ceiling the path to the star. You know, this whole thing kind of feels like rigged against you. Like, they let you practice your swinging hang of it and build up your confidence. Cause there's no risk of falling off there. That one's perfectly safe. So then you try testing your skill on the There are no ceiling gaps near the beginning you have a chance. But then right at the end is the trap to make Here I hit a ceiling gap and fall down, but And finally, if you want to go for the big against you. These first ceiling gaps are less dense on to go on. And the second group of ceiling gaps is less recommend there. Though here, I still end up hitting it and death if you're not expecting it. And also, because these are ceiling gaps, up into the gap, because the ceiling doesn't Here's what jumping into the gap looks like And just for good measure, I bonk in there Then in Lethal Lava Land, we have this arched Its shape is like a breeding ground for edge-vertices. Look at it, we have 7 of them. So let's see, we have a floor overlap, floor gap, floor gap, floor gap. So mainly on the right side, we have a bunch out. BUT we can't forget about the OTHER side Because on this side, we have something very Looking at these ones, we have a floor overlap, floor gap, floor gap, floor gap. So it's actually the same pattern on this But yeah, be careful if you're on this structure. And when Mario does a lava boost, he's able Which means we can wedge Mario between unit like earlier with the bonking. Then in the volcano in Lethal Lava Land, we which have an edge-vertex between them. So this is a rare case when it involves a wall on the seam. But we can analyze it just the same, and see So there's not even a wall over the floor And that's why we get unit columns of out near this upper path. So if you try to take a shortcut by jumping on this invisible wall and falling down. And a cool thing about this one is that it's know where your goal is to not press A. See, redirect your momentum when you're doing get all the way over to the star platform Then in Dire, Dire Docks, we have this wall Based on the edges, it doesn't look like It just looks like 2 edges that should laterally BUT what you don't see is that the floor and extends behind the wall. So really, the bottom edge looks like this. Which means we have two edge-vertices on the Now this one's weird because the edges are aligned. Which means that it was completely doable edge. But for whatever reason, they miss. And so we end up with a 2 unit thick continuous pretty egregious. Like, if you cross over this seam, you're to the other ones we've seen whose units So you might bonk on it. You might try to jump up from the water onto And you might try to run off this ledge and Because walking into an invisible wall slows with too little speed makes you drop down off of the edge. Then in Snowman's Land, we have this wall. The top of the wall is subdivided into 2 different And that edge-vertex causes an invisible wall. And you can see that some of these unit columns bridge. But anyway, I guess this invisible wall could jump off, because then it could bonk you back Then another in Snowman's Land, we have Though two of these triangles are actually So here are the edges, and here are the relevant Zooming in on them, we have a floor overlap And on the right, the vertices miss in a way But just a little one, with exactly two columns And you can see that these columns only rise So it seems unlikely that anyone's ever two of them and they're in such a weird Also in Snowman's Land, we have these floor Once again, this is a seam between floors And the floors have an edge-vertex that causes But do these floor gaps let through out of Well, why not both? See, farther down on the snowman, there's but not all of them. So floor gaps to northwest let out of bounds let ceiling leak through. So it's like a hybrid invisible wall - half But 100% trouble. Because one bonk on this could send you falling the way down. Then still in Snowman's Land, we have this It has 2 edge-vertices on top, because the The left edge-vertex does a floor overlap, a floor gap, which is the problem. So all along the seam, there are unit columns So if you're playing around near the snow wall. Now there's something very interesting about the snow mounds. If we look at it from the side and take a of the snow mounds actually drops down into a split second before disappearing. And the extra big snow mound covers it a lot. So this is the only invisible wall where unit and disappear. And because of that, we can actually have him to die. You get it? Like normally, out of bounds prevents you But we can go there when the out of bounds So basically, you can just die out of nowhere. And I should mention, if you go back into the death transition already started and so Now, you have to wonder, did anyone ever die Surely it would take like 1000 years before Well, wonder no more, because it did happen So let's watch. And of course I do. Please. Please! For the love of F'ing God. Ugh. What the H! Are you F'ing kidding me? What the. So it just goes to show, when you have so crazy rare stuff will happen eventually. And finally in Snowman's Land, we have this You know the drill. There's an edge-vertex, it misses by causing of out of bounds all along the seam. Now you might think this one wouldn't be But actually, speedrunners climb over it as to bonk and mess up their run. Cause now you're sliding all the way down Then near the top of Tall, Tall Mountain, It has one edge-vertex on the bottom, and it causes floor gaps. And these are the kind of floor gaps with below them. And so interestingly, we can actually just go through the mountain, falling all the way And these floor gaps are actually used in See, Mario's able to dive up that seam using him become airborne, which lets him dive again And diving straight up this seam is the fastest Then in Rainbow Ride, we have this wall on This one also doesn't look like it should It just looks like 2 edges that laterally BUT if we look at the surface triangle view, here. And that's because the floors on the right whereas the floors on the left don't trigger more easily. So because of that extra subdivision of triangles, That edge-vertex causes a floor gap, so some Specifically, from a ceiling on the bottom So I don't know how often you're gonna this invisible wall. Then in the castle grounds, we have this wall As you'll come to learn, steps are super adds another edge-vertex. This one has two, so let's see. The left one causes a little gap, and the It's off by 6 units. It's like they weren't even trying to And so the result of this is that we get an to the other ones we've seen so far. So yeah, you might hit this one if you try And good luck if you line up with the extra And also in the castle grounds, we have this Like I said, having steps is likely to cause So this side of the bridge has some invisible But, there's also the other side of the steps. That also causes a bunch of edge-vertices, of the bridge. So on this side too, there are unit columns So if you ever want to go from one side of the bridge instead of jumping across the corners. You'll thank me later. And then inside the castle, we have the wall With this many steps, we have more edge-vertices Some cause gaps, some cause overlaps, you You know, some part of me was like, there Like, this is the hub area, our safe haven. But nope, even the hub area can have invisible are in the castle. Well, most of the castle steps are cardinally But the sides of these steps are at a weird So yeah, on both sides of these stairs, there way. So, watch out for those. Now remember, if you jump up into a ceiling, then you fall down. Also remember, if you jump up into out of steps gets canceled, but you still move vertically. Interestingly, the programmers made an oversight, happen if these two cases occurred together. And so, if you jump up into out of bounds cancels the horizontal component of your movement ignoring the ceiling. In other words, the ceiling has no effect. You can just go straight up into the ceiling Now this invisible wall is made of out of So here, if we jump up into the invisible ceiling, putting us next to the upstairs key This trick was actually used in the 120 star the courtyard to upstairs. And the last example, in the Snowman's Land sides are at an angle. So lots of edge-vertices, and some of them And so the result is that we get some unit Not too many, just 8 of them. So watch out for those when you're making So yeah, that's the fourth cause of invisible due to Misaligned Edge-Vertex". And so now, let's look at the fifth cause. So remember that structure we had before, Let's look at it from above again. Remember, when this structure rotated, the perfectly flush with no gaps between them. But now focus your attention on this vertex If we move this vertex to a slightly different anymore. There's a gap between them. And if we do our little process, we can see cause invisible walls. And geometry like this happens in the game. There are vertices that are meant to be aligned, You know how the previous cause of invisible That one was at least understandable, because and so it couldn't be placed exactly on But in this new case, there's really no The programmers literally just didn't line been lined up, causing there to be floor gaps. So let's look at some examples. In Cool, Cool Mountain, we have this wall Here are the floor edges, and we're gonna So let's go to a top down view, show the The vertex I highlighted should have been But instead of exactly coinciding, we have And all because the programmers didn't line So because of that, we have some gaps all And it's not a ceiling or out of bounds floor, specifically the death barrier. So the result of this is that we're able do it at the corner where the wall is too And by going through this gap, we don't the way down here. That's why this technique is used in the to get to the Wall Kicks Will Work star. Then in Shifting Sand Land, we have these share a vertex over here. But if we zoom in, we can see that their vertices That means all along the seam between those of bounds. Not very good, because if you're riding chance your shell might break out of nowhere Invisa-walled? And it could also mess up your flying. Because if you fly into out of bounds, your So you might be flying along and suddenly the quicksand. Then in Wet-Dry World, we have this wall that If we focus on the lower right vertex, we by 1 unit. So all along this seam, there are units of And so when you're collecting that ring this invisible wall. Then in Tall, Tall Mountain, we have this We're gonna focus on this vertex on the the left that we should also look at. So if we zoom in on them, we can see that gap. And for the other vertex we highlighted, it's So all along this seam, unit columns of ceiling of the structure. And hey, this is the invisible wall that I Remember that? You were all so innocent back then. You had no idea how deep this rabbit hole Then still in Tall, Tall Mountain, we have Note that the triangle next to it is actually And now we're gonna focus on this vertex. Zooming in on it, we can see that it's off Which means that all along this seam, there the death barrier is below here. And so it's actually possible to just fall fall to the death barrier. Now this was the last main example of floor the floors gaps you can just jump into. But there are a few other examples that aren't the way into them. But they're still worth mentioning, so let's In Cool, Cool Mountain, there are some floor So whenever you walk over this seam, you COULD movement happens to line up with a floor gap. And if you try to fall into one of these floor all the way through. Also in Cool, Cool Mountain, there are some at the start of this icy bridge. If you try to enter these, you get pushed In Snowman's Land, there are some floor the bully platform. If you try to enter these, you get pushed And in Tall, Tall Mountain, there are some Like the others, if you try to enter these, So yeah, I just wanted to point those out. And now back to the real examples. Lastly, in the castle grounds, we have these So this one's like a two for one special. Because this vertex misses by a bit, and this So all along the seam of both of these walls, leak through. So if you want to be like Yoshi and jump into these invisible walls. So that's the fifth cause of invisible walls, to Misaligned Vertices". And with that, it means we've done the left on floor edges failing to line up. Next we're gonna do the right side, which failing to line up. You might get some deja vu as I explain a similar process to what we did before, but So, let's look at the sixth cause. So consider a box, just a regular old box. On the top there's a floor, on the bottom are walls. Now we're gonna look at it from above on This time, I'm gonna draw the floor from bottom of the box. Right now, the two rectangles exactly coincide, But I assure you, both a floor rectangle and So this time, we're gonna focus on the floor south edge. Or in other words, the edge at the top of the wall. The question we're gonna be analyzing is, out more than the other? On the unit grid, we can see that these two they do line up. Now if we see any red area, then we know the And if we see any blue area, then we know But if all we see is purple, then we know aligned. So let's put the structure back to a top Still, the floor edge and the ceiling edge out more. See, the two edges exactly match in terms So let's rotate the structure back to normal, Now it's two steps going to the right. And you can see this change reflected on the into 2 rectangles, while the ceiling is still And if you notice, the floor now has 2 edge-vertices, on the ceiling edges below. Now since the whole structure is cardinally to lie exactly on their edges, and so no ceiling On the 3d structure on the left, that means So let's clear all of that, put the structure it again. You can see that now we run into the same at weird angles. For example, let's stop it here. At this angle, it's impossible for the edge-vertex has to be at integer coordinates, but the And so the edge-vertex just has to pick integer In this case, the result is that the ceiling we can see some red area. Now if the edge-vertex were here instead, we can see some blue area. That would be fine, since it means the floor In fact, that's what's happening on the But since the edge-vertex is here, now we which lets some of the ceiling leak through. To see this, we can do our little process. So first we'll mark each integer point as If it's both floor and ceiling, then I'm Then add the arrows. And then fill in the unit squares. And so we can see that some of the unit squares Consequently, those ceiling units leak through And so, any structure that resembles this The floor could have the edge-vertex, the both have edge-vertices. In fact, the structure could even look like Basically, it'll be a structure where on a ceiling, and on the side there are walls. Then you need the floor edges at the top of of the wall to be subdivided differently. That causes there to be edge-vertices, which But if the structure is at a weird angle, its edge, allowing some ceiling to leak through. So to recap, we looked at four scenarios. Whether there was no edge-vertex or there And whether the structure was cardinally aligned And only when there was an edge-vertex at So those are the two main ingredients. Now let's look at the situation from the So, consider the box again. Let's put it sideways and take the cross As we saw in the previous demonstration, there's to be misaligned, meaning the wall triangle So just like last time, we're gonna look But this time, instead of checking whether we're checking whether one floor completely So let's start with the wall being perfectly In this case, the edge of the floor is exactly If we show the hitboxes, we can see that the And since none of the ceiling leaks through, So I'll give this case a happy face. Then next, let's look at leaning very far Here, the wall triangle is so slanted that So that's an extra ceiling that the floor But if we show the hitboxes, we can see that So this case gets a happy face. Then next, let's look at leaning a little Here, the wall triangle is still a wall, just If we show the hitboxes again, we can see this time with a little bit of floor to spare. So this case gets a happy face. Then next, let's skip ahead and look at Here, the wall triangle is so slanted the If we show the hitboxes, we can see that the Like, the original floor no longer covers to the right of the ceiling's left edge. But fortunately, the new floor is there to So this case gets a happy face. And then finally, let's look at leaning Here, the wall triangle is still a wall, just Now let's show the hitboxes. You can see that in this case, some of the walls don't cover ceiling hitboxes. It's just like I said earlier, walls that of a floor but without the powers of a floor. So I'm gonna give this case an angry face. So to recap, we looked at 5 slants, and only lets ceiling hitbox leak through. And if we move the upper vertex around continuously, range that lets the ceiling leak through. Specifically, the wall triangle has to be out more than the floor, but the wall can't as a floor that covers that distance. And finally, let's look at the side view When the wall leans very far back, the fill leaks. When the wall leans a little back, we see than the ceiling. But that doesn't cause any trouble. When the wall's perfectly vertical, it's When the wall leans a little forwards, now out more than the floor, so some ceiling might And when the wall leans very far forwards, the ceiling hitbox. So it's once again a uniform shade of purple, And so, it's only the one case where ceiling And let me clarify something. Last time, we looked at floor gaps, which It could be a floor gap with a floor under through, or a floor gap that lets ceiling But this time, there's just one case. When the ceiling juts out, ceiling leaks through. So I just wanted to clarify that bit of asymmetry. And so now, let's look at some examples. In Bob-omb Battlefield, we have this gray Here's the wall, and you can see that the subdivided differently, which causes there So let's go to a top down view. Show the floors on the top of the tunnel. And you can see that on the underside of the So, let's add those to our map as well. Now we're gonna zoom in on each edge-vertex. On all four of these edge-vertices, you can out more than the floor. And so the result is that all along this edge, them, resulting in an invisible wall. But, we can't forget about the other side Because here we have something very similar Another four edge-vertices. But will the ceiling jut out or the floor Let's see. First the ceiling juts out, then the floor the floor juts out. So interestingly, we actually end up with One at each of the two vertices where the So that's a cool thing about this type of Sometimes there will just be a single unit itself. And now I'll show you another cool thing Walking in midair, then downwarping. So how does that work? Well let me explain. So as you know, Mario's movement consists Now, the quarter step function in the code You can basically think of the return value In total, there are 4 possible values that First, the movement succeeded. This is basically the default value, and means Second, Mario became airborne. This happens when you leave the ground. Third, the movement got canceled, either because And fourth, Mario hit a wall, which happens Now the quarter step function can only return So even if it seems like multiple things happened, it. So for example, let's say we have a setup This quarter step both leaves the ground and The function can't return both that Mario so it just has to pick one. And in this case, it picks that the movement That one takes priority. So what happens here is that the movement place. He does not become airborne. Here's what this looks like in the game. Mario's movement gets canceled even though But now consider this. Let's say Mario's walking into a ceiling, under him. You'd think he would fall down, but that's He's actually able to stay in the air walking See, the normal way that the game realizes return value of the quarter step function But as we just established, if Mario walks then the quarter step function just returns became airborne. So at no point does the game realize that he's just allowed to continue moving into An easy place to see this is on this elevator We can walk into the ceiling next to the elevator, as the elevator moves away. Now when you're in this state, there are You can press A to jump out of it. You can press B to punch in place. And you can press Z, which downwarps you to Why does it downwarp you? Well, when you press Z while you're moving, Now an interesting thing about the sliding floors around him. See, even though Mario's on a flat floor, on that hill next to him. Here's the function in the code responsible But you can see that the first thing this at the height of the floor below him. So that means every time you slide and get to the floor below you. More specifically, this floor snap happens step became airborne. You know, because they didn't want you to edge. So let's say you're in midair and you're Then you press Z to crouch slide into the The first quarter step of the crouch slide So the return value of that quarter step is And like I said, any sliding movement that the ground, and so he gets a big downwarp So that's how the downwarp works in Big So this mostly explains how I downwarped earlier. I walked into a ceiling in midair and then But how did I initiate walking in midair without under me? Well, it has to do with the turning around See, when Mario starts turning around, he Then a bit later, it transitions into the You know, because he finished turning around. Here's the code for the turning around action, So if Mario's done turning around, specifically then Mario goes into the walking action. Now a bit earlier, we have some other important This one says, if the quarter steps result the freefall action. So you can see the issue. Let's say on the same frame, Mario both Then first his action gets set to freefall, So that first action change gets overridden And so even though Mario left the ground, Now this exploit by itself just results in to freefall on the next frame. But let's say we use that one frame of walking Now Mario stays walking in midair, and can We can also use that one frame of walking lets us downwarp. Now since invisible walls are made of out trick on them, by walking in midair and then So let me summarize everything. I did a turn around, and then walked off of ended. That first set my action to freefall but then So I was in midair but still in the walking Then I walked into the invisible wall, so quarter step got canceled, not that I left Because of that, the game didn't know that let me walk in midair. And finally, I pressed Z to downwarp, because his floor if it doesn't become airborne. And here it didn't become airborne, it got wall. So a lot going on there, but that's how wall. Then still in Bob-omb Battlefield, we have This is the wall with the lower alcove. Now, there's one triangle on the wall that's So, let's mark that ceiling's edges as So that gives us 4 edge-vertices. And as you can see, all 4 of them have the So that means both on the ceiling of the alcove ceiling columns leaking through. Luckily, none of them block the entrance of But if you're on top of the mountain, you cross above this edge. Then right above that previous wall, we have This is the wall with the upper alcove, which in it. But anyway, we have 4 edge-vertices on the So let's see. Floor juts out, floor juts out, ceiling juts So basically, just on the right side of the leaking through. So you could hit it if you try to travel above Now, speedrunners actually come out of that potentially going right through the invisible So if you ever try that side flip and you blocked by that invisible wall. Then in Jolly Roger Bay, we have this wall The wall is a diamond shape, so it has 2 edge-vertices, corner. You can see that both edge-vertices let the So once again we have a really thick invisible Now this is our first invisible wall that because the sunken ship is an object and not And the thing about objects is that they're radius around them. For example, if you're standing on an object shadow change positions. That's because when you jump up too high, radius, and so the object stops being tangible. In other words, the object stops loading its from on top of the object to just on top of So let's go back to the sunken ship. The invisible walls here stem from the ship's In other words, these invisible walls only are loaded, and that only happens when Mario So if Mario's outside of that radius, the so effectively, there are no invisible walls And so going forward, all invisible walls height capped at the object's tangibility So here, you can see that if we swim above the ship is intangible when we're this far But if we swim a little lower down into the are loaded and affect Mario, causing Mario Because remember, when you're in water, of their hitbox. What the F? What? What just happened? What just happened? Then in Cool, Cool Mountain, we have this It's just a triangle, so it has one edge-vertex If we zoom in, you can see that the ceiling all along this edge. And I really like the way this one looks. It's very aesthetically pleasing. But anyway, if you're sliding down this side here. Then still in Cool, Cool Mountain, we have It has one edge-vertex on the top. And when we zoom in, you can see that the So we have a decently thick invisible wall, Now you might think, who would ever run into Like you're not just gonna jump off the Well, not exactly. You see, speedrunners jump down that way to take a look at some past attempts. Oh my God, that's... Wh-wh-wh-wh-wh-what? How am I standing here? Oh. Mario? What the F? Oh my, oh my God. So what's going on with those? Mario's doing some weird animations. Well let me explain. Firstly, when Mario's on a steep floor, You can even slide into ceilings and out of and you just stay sliding in place. And note that when you're sliding, you can body. Now usually when you're in a sliding action, sliding animation. But there's an oversight in the sliding movement gets canceled, either from moving animation doesn't get set to the sliding Instead, you just keep whatever animation I mean here, I was already in the sliding of bounds, so I kept that sliding animation. But let me demonstrate it with a different Here, I do the pushing animation and then The sliding into out of bounds doesn't update stays as pushing, even though he's actually And when you're in this state, you can still body. So going back to Cool, Cool Mountain, you next to a steep floor that makes you slide. So we can use the invisible wall to let us For example, here I slide in place in the So it doesn't even look like Mario landed sliding. Here I slide in the jumping animation. And remember, I can still tilt Mario's upper It definitely wasn't intended to handle Here I slide in the walking animation. This one also looks pretty silly when you in place. Where are you trying to get to, Mario? You trying to go somewhere? Uh! Almost got there. Come on, Mario, you can do it. Uh! Almost there. Come on, a little more. Uh! There we go. Here I do a triple jump into it, so I slide And here I slide in the sparkly triple jump for forever. So yeah, it's fun to play around with. Then in Hazy Maze Cave, we have the wall on It has 2 edge-vertices on the bottom. So will the floor jut out or the ceiling jut On this first vertex, actually neither one They're exactly aligned. So give it up for the programmers guys. They made an edge-vertex that exactly lies No one thought it could be done, but here Well, to be fair, this edge is at a 45 degree And then for the other edge-vertex, the ceiling So actually, that results in just one ceiling itself. But then there's also the other side of of the first side. So we have two edge-vertices, one of them ceiling jut out. So on this side too, we have another ceiling So I actually don't know if anyone's ever they cover. Then in Lethal Lava Land, we have this wall There's one edge-vertex at the bottom. Now the edge-vertex misses its edge, but it's Because to the left, this causes a floor gap And to the right, this causes the ceiling So it's once again a hybrid invisible wall, So be careful when you jump onto the start if you mess up. Then in Snowman's Land, we have this wall, It has one edge-vertex on the bottom. Now this one's also a hybrid in a sense, ceiling leaking through, and on the right the floor does. So that means all along this edge, there are So if you're ever climbing up the snowman short or bonk while you're crossing this Then still in Snowman's Land, we have this This one's a little weird because it doesn't Instead, to the left, we have a ceiling. So let's mark the ceiling's edge. And to the right, we have a floor. So let's mark the floor's edge. And so basically, the edge-vertex is here, the ceiling's edge. Now the edge-vertex misses, which means that jutting out more than the floor. And so all along this edge, we have some invisible This one could get in your way if you try snowman. But also, this invisible wall is next to a or slide on it. You just fall off of it. So a cool thing you can do is wedge Mario and he just kind of gets stuck there in the But it is possible to get out of it. Yes! No! What is going on? What? I've never seen that. What? Then in Tall, Tall Mountain, we have this See, there's a reason I picked this place And it's because there are so many invisible people would relate to bumping into one of Then we also have one on this wall, which We actually have two different edge-vertices So that means to the left, we have some invisible And then on the other side of the log, we Two edge-vertices. The right edge-vertex lets the floor jut out, But the left edge-vertex misses in a way that and also lets the ceiling jut out. So yet another hybrid case. So yeah, this area is way more hazardous than With three more invisible walls that you have And there's actually one more invisible But we're not gonna get around to that one Banned in the casino? What the F was that? I'm pretty sure that was an invis wall. What? Oh my God. Then still in Tall, Tall Mountain, at the It's another alcove, and alcoves seem to But anyway, we have two edge-vertices, and So along both ceiling edges, we have some Though it's much more concentrated on the So basically, if you try to enter the alcove invisible wall. Then in the Tall, Tall Mountain slide, we Remember when I said the first arch was fine second and third arches? Well, turns out it does have some invisible We just weren't ready for them back then. But you can see that its shape creates a ton that some of them will let ceiling leak out. And then there's also the other side of There's not actually a wall on this side, just to help you see the shape of the arch. So on this side too, we have a bunch of edge-vertices, And the invisible wall on this side is basically other side. So while you can go on top of this first arch, are still some invisible walls to worry about. Then in the huge version of Tiny-Huge Island, One edge-vertex at the bottom, which lets So we have some invisible wall to the right But we're actually not done yet, because on. Two more edge-vertices that both let ceiling this edge too. So I guess if you ever wanted to just jump walls could get in your way. Or just think of them as guardrails keeping And then in the tiny version of Tiny-Huge Well, only for the first invisible wall. The second invisible wall actually isn't But for this one, it's just one more invisible Then in Tick Tock Clock, we have this wall So that's three edge-vertices, the outer the ceiling jut out. So just near that middle vertex, we have some and second steps. But then we also have the other side of the Note that the wall on this side doesn't for those two steps is a bit further out in But that means we just have two edge-vertices. One of them lines up exactly, and the other So on this side of the stairs, we have some And so these invisible walls are pretty bad, jump in the level, only a couple seconds in. For the 100th time, Mario, don't die. It was absolutely everywhere. Like literally, go F yourself. And since Tick Tock Clock is a vertical stage, greater impact. Because now the invisible wall can affect This invisible wall goes all the way up until But more importantly, it's right in the where sometimes it gets cut off a bit by this But that means any time you jump over this wall. And bonking in Tick Tock Clock usually leads So it's pretty unfortunate for speedrunners, Oh! My C dude. And speedrunners will also try to jump from right through this invisible wall. So you could easily bonk during that jump All right, so I can do it here, and there's What? What? Mmm-okay. I. Mmm. I don't have any words for that invisi-wall. I've never seen that invisi-wall. Oh my God, invis wall, really? Oh my God, another invis wall, blblblblbl. Uh! Then in that same area, we have this wall Because of the way the floor slopes down on The left one has the floor jut out, and the So primarily on the right side, we get some But not above the last two stairs, because invisible wall from coming out. Now luckily, this invisible wall doesn't but it can still lead to your death if you Then still in Tick Tock Clock, we have this Kind of a weird shape, but it has 3 edge-vertices. So let's see. First the ceiling juts out, then they're Consequently, we have ceiling columns all Though you may notice that there's a single at that vertex that was exactly aligned. But basically, that means that any time you falling all the way down to your death. So definitely not a very fair system. Why's there an invisible wall there? Hey, now you know why. Now this invisible wall also extends pretty You can see some of it stops at this walkway, to the ceiling of the course. So yeah, this one can be pretty annoying given Specifically, it passes by two walkways. For this lower walkway, if you try to take may bonk and fall down to your death. That is the saddest thing since sliced bread. Dude! Clearly. Clearly this. Clearly this is not the run! Clearly! F! Jesus F! And for the upper walkway, if you try to jump hit the invisible wall. I'll be back. Wha? Someone help me, man. Jesus F'ing Christ. But this one actually has a solution. See, you can go forwards on top of the clock above it. It's like Moses parting the Red Sea, but wall. Then even still in Tick Tock Clock, we have Now the treadmills themselves are cardinally But focus your attention on these mesh walls These walls are actually both sides of two So if we look at them, you can see that they're It's just that normally, you only see the Now on the bottom of these boxes, we have So the question is, do the ceiling hitboxes Well you see, the boxes don't have floors Instead, they rely solely on the treadmill So let's see how well that plays out. For this first seam, there's a 1 unit wide Consequently, we see some red area, so you But actually, every integer coordinate is covered. Now let's take a look at the other seam. Between these two treadmills, there's a So this time, we do have integer coordinates This gives us a 1 unit thick continuous seam And so as you're climbing from the second hit this invisible wall. But that's not actually the full story here. Remember what I said, the boxes have ceilings so they rely on the treadmill floors to cover But the treadmills are objects, meaning that them. So it probably wasn't a very good idea to sometimes there. I'll illustrate what I mean with a diagram. So here are the 3 treadmills. Here's the upper box and here's the lower Now we're actually gonna subdivide both So both boxes have a right chunk and a left Next let's add the ceilings on the bottom Now we're gonna go through the 4 chunks, look like. So first, let's do the right chunk of the In isolation, its ceiling hitbox looks like But this chunk is covered by the lower treadmill. So if Mario's within this radius around its floors to cover the ceiling, so there's But the invisible wall is there when Mario's Then next, let's look at the left chunk In isolation, its ceiling hitbox looks like But this chunk is covered by the middle treadmill. So if Mario's within this radius, then the no invisible wall within that radius. But it is there outside of the radius. Then next, let's look at the right chunk This one's not covered by any treadmill, And finally, let's look at the left chunk In isolation, its ceiling hitbox looks like But this chunk is covered by the upper treadmill. So if Mario's within this radius, then the no invisible wall within that radius. But it is there outside of the radius. And so now you can see the true nature of Specifically, we have 4 separate chunks of One of them is fully exposed, and the other radius of the corresponding treadmill. Now I'll show what these invisible walls So we have the right chunk of the lower box. The left chunk of the lower box. The right chunk of the upper box. And the left chunk of the upper box. So yeah, this is the true nature of these So you can see that the lower invisible walls While the upper invisible walls rise up all So even between the first and second treadmill, if you jump up high enough. And because the upper invisible wall rises way if you try to long jump from the clock And remember, it's not just a single seam worth. So there's really no chance of you getting could with many of the other invisible walls. And then one more in Tick Tock Clock, we have Just like the first treadmill, it has 2 edge-vertices When we zoom in, you can see that the right one is exactly aligned. So just on this side of this treadmill, we And remember, because these invisible wall at the object's tangibility radius. And so even at the very top of Tick Tock Clock, about. Then in Rainbow Ride, we're back to the We have this wall on the ship's outside, Zooming in, you can see that the edge-vertex cardinally aligned. So the invisible wall is 2 units thick right a one unit thick continuous seam. And so if you try long jumping onto that part to your death. Then in Vanish Cap under the Moat, on the It has one edge-vertex on the bottom. Now this one's another hybrid. Because to the right, we have the ceiling And to the left, we have a floor gap that So we end up with some out of bounds and some edge-vertex. But then we have something similar going on And by similar, I mean exactly the same thing. Because this edge-vertex also causes a hybrid some ceiling. But we're not done yet, because the third but this time on the other side of the platform. So you might be wondering, just how many of Well, we're on the fourth platform right So why don't you take a guess at how many Right now we're seeing the fifth platform's And the sixth platform also has an invisible So we're 6 for 6. Place your bets for the last one. And the seventh platform also has an invisible Can you believe that? That means all 7 platforms have invisible Look at that. Look at what you have to go through every A whole gauntlet of invisible walls. So you thought the challenge was just to make the red coins. But nope. There's an additional secret challenge, invisible wall. And speedrunners will do a triple jump on the railing, which goes right through that I got invis walled. Oh no. What? What the? Okay. What? Uh. Temporary invisible wall. Oh okay. Yeah. Yeah, all right. Um. Moving right along. Uh. And then finally, we have this wall in the Factoring in the hole for the door, it has Zooming in, we have exactly aligned, exactly So that means mainly on the right side of through. So you might just be going through the foyer invisible wall. So not even the foyer is safe. So that's the sixth cause of invisible walls, due to Misaligned Edge-Vertex". And so now, let's look at the seventh cause. So remember that structure we had before, Let's look at it from above again. Remember, when this structure rotated, the flush without letting any ceiling leak through. But now focus your attention on this vertex If we move this vertex to a slightly different And if we do our little process, we can see to cover them. And so those ceiling units leak through the So once again, there are cases where the programmers that could have been lined up. In this case, it's a floor vertex and ceiling ceiling to leak through. So let's look at some examples. In Bob-omb Battlefield, we have these two spinning heart. Based on their edges, they connect at this So will the floor vertex and ceiling vertex Nope, the ceiling vertex misses by one unit So we end up with invisible wall on both of So this is just one more invisible wall on Then in Whomp's Fortress, we have this wall Note that the axle is shaped like a triangular We can see that the floor vertex and ceiling out on this edge. Though, it only results in 3 units of ceiling But nevertheless, it's still a potential as you play this level. Then in Cool, Cool Mountain, we have this This time, the floor vertex and ceiling vertex And so all along this wall, we end up with And so this is the second invisible wall that area. And remember, speedrunners go through that So it's extra bad for speedrunners. What was that? Did you see that? The invisible wall? Wow. I've never seen this. Wow. Then in Snowman's Land, we have this wall And let's also mark this floor edge next we're about to look at. Zooming in, you can see that the floor vertex So on the left we have a floor gap with ceiling jutting out more than the floor. So another hybrid case. And earlier we also had another invisible So I guess this part of the snowman wasn't Then in Tall, Tall Mountain, on the mushroom Based on their edges, that gives us 5 vertices So let's see. Floor juts out, ceiling juts out, exactly and ceiling jut out in different directions. That means along all four of these edges on invisible walls. So any time you jump onto the starting mushroom, Though on the bright side, you don't actually But, what if it affected a mushroom that was Because on this mushroom too, we also have When we look at these vertices, we see something other. That gives us invisible walls along these And this one's even worse, because this so you might bonk out of nowhere and die as But we're not done yet, because there's the mushroom with the red coin star on it. You know, I'm starting to suspect that they would explain why all three of them have such their vertices quite right. But yeah, that means that this mushroom also So you could easily hit this and die as you're And don't count on the wind to save you. What? Duh-nuh-nuh-nuh. What the F? What the F? Nah. What? What do you? What? What the F? What do you want me to do? What? Nah. No no, I refuse to believe that just. Come on. You look like the NPC version of Mark Ruffalo. Just get. Please get. What is going on? So anyway, uh, how are you guys doing today? Pretty good, or? You know, how's work? How's school? And just the other day, Liam was on a world invisible wall. Rounds up to F'ing 13. Much coded. I don't deserve it. Why does this only happen to me? Why do I only get the worst invis walls in Why do I consistently get the worst coin RNG? The worst luck at all in every run? Keep going? Dude, I'm gonna die. I was like playing fine, man. Like I was playing fine. I would have saved time, man. Oh my God, man. So to avoid hitting this invisible wall during right. Specifically, make sure you cross onto the I'm highlighting here. If you do that, then you will avoid the invisible Then in Tower of the Wing Cap, we have this This wall has 2 edge-vertices, but we're left. So let's see what we got. Ceiling juts out, floor juts out, and then ceiling to jut out. So all along this edge, we end up with invisible But we're not done yet, because we also Once again, we have 2 edge-vertices and another This time, we have ceiling juts out, floor So it's the exact same thing on this side. Which makes me wonder if this was copy-and-pasted And we're still not done, because we have And I literally mean one more. Because on this vertex, if we zoom in, you vertex. And it results in just one unit of ceiling So in total, we have two edges of invisible a separate single unit of invisible wall in But it's not jumping into these invisible flying into them. Because remember what I said, flying into So you might be trying to fly onto the rook bonk, and fall down. All right. Uh. Down. It's gotta be, this has to be aggressive. Okay, so. Somebody F'ing explain, when you land on something, Then in Bowser in the Fire Sea, we have some So for this ramp, if we take a look at the the bottom of the ramp, we can see that they're So basically, the floor is in the right position, the side of where it should be. Which results in some invisible wall. And then actually, we have something very Because if we look at the floor and ceiling about 20 units off of where it should be. And right in this spot, that causes a huge rectangle's worth. And then there's also invisible wall along And you can see that some of the unit columns Also, the bottom of these unit columns move up and down. So as you're climbing your way up this staircase, walls. What the F was that, dude? Holy S. with these invisible walls. We can walk into them, and then the staircase midair. Like we discussed earlier, this is because instead of that it went airborne. So the game never realizes that Mario left Let's watch as one speedrunner discovers The worst down angle anyone has. What the H? I didn't know you could do this? What? What? What is h-. What? What? What is happening? He's... What is happening? Dude, I did not know. What the F? Then still in Bowser in the Fire Sea, we have And we're gonna focus on this vertex. When we zoom in, you can see that this floor And so along this edge, we get a one unit the ceiling leaking out. So this one's not actually too bad, because right there. And then in Bowser in the Sky, we have something Another wall on the corner of a walkway, where And this floor vertex misses the ceiling vertex did, making me think that this may have been And so we end up with a very similar invisible Note that this invisible wall only rises upwards you don't have to worry about it affecting But if you were to jump off the edge right So to reiterate, this type of invisible wall vertex are meant to be aligned, but they're leak through the leaning wall. Now earlier, I said these cases happen due vertices. But this type of invisible wall can also happen perfectly. Specifically, it can happen if the structure See, if it's rotating like this, then it's go through certain angles that cause there And so those walls can let ceiling leak through. So that's why the front and back of the due to misaligned vertices. But interestingly, even the sides of the structure vertices can have slight fluctuations to the that lets ceiling leak through. Though note that these side ones would actually walls, which was ceiling jutting out due to And even if the structure is rotating perfectly because now we have edge-vertices at weird So let's look at some examples. The rolling log has some invisible walls. You can see that the short sides of the log on them, and the long sides of the log have And this was the one I was referring to earlier, in this area. And as luck would have it, the angle that the long side of it. So before you do anything, there's already you jump onto the log. So let me just recap all the invisible walls On the left side, we have the inner seam, Then on the right side, we have this edge. And then for the rolling log, it starts off So a regular journey through here could go Two on the starting side, one on the rolling So this is just not a very friendly area. The swings in Rainbow Ride have some invisible Specifically, both the blue rectangle part the top create invisible walls at certain You probably won't run into the one on the the blue rectangle can get in your way as What? The crusher in the volcano has an invisible Specifically, on the first frame when it starts So you could hit this one if you try jumping The rotating bridge in Whomp's Fortress Though note that the invisible walls only That's because its cross section is an upside edge-vertex at many different weird angles. And bonking on this one is usually pretty Wha? Hello? Dude! No, that F'ing blue coin. What was that invis wall, dude? Are you S'ing me, man? What? The spinning triangle in Tick Tock Clock has side. You wouldn't think there'd be any there, through the edge, which is what gives it an So we already talked about how this gap has has invisible walls on it, which could easily way down. Rotating elevators have invisible walls when So if you thought it was annoying how they more annoying, because those rotations produce The rotating cubes in Tick Tock Clock have So you could hit one of these ones and fall The rotating triangles in Tick Tock Clock Both when they're rotating and at certain So these ones could also trip you up and make The elevators that are on fixed tracks have around their pathing. Look how many there are. This elevator was supposed to help us get by blocking us with invisible walls. Now for the most part, I'm just showing just not feasible to show every instance of But for these fixed track elevators, I'm See, since they do the same movement every time. So it just feels more worth it to show each Think of it like a carnival ride. Not that rigged carnival game from earlier. But like a nice peaceful ride where you're passing by the scary pirates or something. But in this case, you're riding on the elevator walls. So relax, take a breather, you earned it for We can just have a friendly conversation, Me, who's recording these voice lines months talk back. That'll work, right? So, I hope you're enjoying the video so This is literally the video that's taken So I hope you find it worth the effort. And don't worry, I'm not gonna disappear I have a lot more video ideas that I want I got regular video ideas, YouTube short ideas, So if you want to see all those, make sure And our elevator ride is almost over, so let poem. Before here and now Then you came around A place for just us And as an added plus So if you want my view I love being with you Oh my! Oh. And now, let me show you something cool you A downwarp that can happen when you bonk. I know we already had one downwarp, but this explain it. So here's the frame before Mario downwarps. So let's go to a top down view, show the You can see that currently the floor juts mostly purple but with some blue squares. Now let's walk through what happens on this First, the elevator moves one frame forwards, So now the ceiling is jutting out more, giving Then Mario moves forwards, not because of on a moving platform. See, when Mario's on a moving platform, Mario along with it every frame to keep him Now normally, this platform displacement would platform. But here, because Mario was so close to the bit due to them only having unit precision, edge. Like, now he's on a white square that isn't Now when a quarter step moves Mario off the action. But this does not happen if the platform displacement Because I guess they never expected that, same relative position on the platform. And so, Mario just stays in the action that action. So like the other downwarp, Mario's now And now Mario does his quarter steps. His first quarter step lands on a unit square an invisible wall. So the quarter step returns that it got canceled And like I mentioned earlier, any sliding Mario with the ground. And since Mario's not actually above the the ground gives him a huge downwarp. All the way to the floor down below. So it's similar to the previous downwarp, in the air, and then slid into an invisible But instead of using a turn around to walk moving elevator. Then the ski lift in Cool, Cool Mountain has Which makes sense, because it tilts based Well, I guess most people just stand still already worried about falling off of it. But if you decide to jump, you could bonk The controllable platform in Hazy Maze Cave when Mario stands on it and when it bumps Seesaws also tilt based on how Mario stands too. So you might bonk on them if you go near the The long wooden seesaw in Bob-omb Battlefield Though they're just little tiny ones on So you'd have to be really unlucky to ever The big seesaws can also have invisible walls, And this one was hard to hit, because you really fast, so I kinda doubt anyone's ever And the squiggly seesaw in Bowser in the Sky slightest tilt. And this one's very bad for speedrunners, you can bonk and fall down to your death. I was a bit confused with that, so I... I got invisible wall! What? What? What was that? I've never seen that in my life. Oh my Go-. Oh my God, he said it. What the F? Fix your S'y game. I'm doing 70. I'm sorry. The loose floor panel in Big Boo's Haunt bonk on and fall all the way down into the Floating wooden boards can have invisible position. But these invisible walls only occur on the That's because the platform updates its of the platform that are walls that lean slightly So you can't really hit these invisible It's like the platform is playing monkey wall around to wherever you aren't. When you fight Bowser for the second time, onto it. So as the platform is wobbling back and forth, You're probably not gonna hit these ones you're most likely trying extra hard to Falling blocks rotate as they fall down. So you could end up hitting one of their invisible The coffins in Big Boo's Haunt rotate, so Specifically, they have invisible walls on But no invisible walls on the downwards movement. Whomps in Whomp's Fortress can have invisible And these ones can happen both when the whomps Even King Whomp has some invisible walls. It's almost like a defense mechanism. Like, a porcupine has quills for protection, kind of are like really long thin quills if What is that bonk? Hello? What the F is that? The falling plank in Whomp's Fortress has side of it as it falls down. Now this one was hard to hit, but I did find So first I go onto the plank. Hit it once with a breakdance to get it wobbling. And then knock it down with a wall kick, which wall. Eyerok has some invisible walls. But only on the initial movement when he gets Not any time after that. And if you're really fast, you can hit these I don't know why you'd want to, but you Even Dorrie has invisible walls on the sides But don't think of it as Dorrie attacking It's more like, a sea creature who got their it off. So you could bonk on this invisible wall. But you could also be trying to swim onto downwarped to under Dorrie. Because remember, ceiling hitboxes downwarp So yeah, that's the seventh cause of invisible Juts Out due to Misaligned Vertices". And now the whole Punnett square is filled Basically, the top row is "Misaligned Edge-Vertex", the left column is "Floor Gap", and the So these 4 causes are just all 4 combinations. And now we just have one more cause to do. Which is the eighth cause, aka the final boss This one's a weird and complicated one, to it like we always do. So, imagine we have 4 floors, arranged like I'm gonna label them A, B, C, D, so that And let's place Mario in the middle, so Now when Mario's in the air, the game calculates This is because as he's falling, the game Mario's height to the height of the floor If Mario's about to move lower than the the game puts him directly on top of the floor But now let's go back to when Mario was As I explained, the game needs to know which But how does it calculate this? Your intuition might say, "Start at Mario And whatever floor the arrow hits first is If we do that, we get floor C. What does the game actually do? Well, to show what happens, we're gonna So what the game does is go through the floors which in this case would be A, B, C, D. For within the bounds of the floor laterally, So for floor A, Mario's within the bounds For floor B, Mario's not within the bounds he is above it. For floor C, Mario's within the bounds and Now as soon as the game finds a floor that as the one directly under Mario. It doesn't bother checking the rest of the down than the floor Mario's gonna land on, affect his trajectory. You know, because he's gonna land before So anyway, that's the process that the game which found floor C. And our intuition also matches our intuition. However, there are some obscure cases where For example, let's say we have 2 floors Let's call them A and B, and let's say Same question, which floor is directly below Well, first let's do our intuition. If we draw an arrow straight down from Mario, should be the one directly below him. But what does the game logic do? Well once again, let's get out the table. So the game goes through the floors from highest Mario's both within the bounds and above. Now both floor A and floor B satisfy both So really, it all comes down to which floor So if floor A is checked first, then it's But if floor A were considered lower than and it'd be the one under Mario. As I've mentioned, the game checks the floors But that's a little ambiguous here, because of floor A is below floor B. So it's not gets to be checked first. But don't worry, the programmers figured One might even say, a little too simple. Because the way they programmed it is, all vertex. Let me explain. As you know, every floor triangle has 3 vertices: third vertex. But for our discussion here, we're only And to be clear, when I say first vertex, programmers listed first of the 3 vertices So a floor triangle's first vertex could or the vertex in the middle. Basically, you can't really make any assumptions essentially random. So using the first vertex as the basis for the developers' part. Now let's go back to the first floor layout, are arranged like this. But let me make a little change. Instead of having all the pink circles be floor's name, just to make it easier to Okay, so the game goes through the floors highest first vertex to lowest first vertex. So here, first that'd be floor A's first floor C's first vertex, and then floor D's So the game would order the floors as A, B, But that's just for this arrangement of They could instead be arranged like this, But even now, the order would still go A, really matter how the first vertices are arranged, would always still be in the same order. But if we have a floor layout like this, then are arranged. They could be like this, like this, like this, If the first vertices are arranged like this, floor A is considered higher up in the order, check, floor A is considered the floor directly on floor A. On the other hand, if the first B has the higher first vertex, floor B is gets checked first and passes the check, floor and so if Mario falls, he lands on floor B. floor A. Because remember, he falls until and ignores any floors considered lower than So this is a phenomenon called "floor overshadowing". To summarize it, it's when our intuition but instead, the game considers floor A to first vertices. And the result of this is that Mario can't above floor B. To illustrate this, I'll that that portion of floor A is overshadowed But it's only that one portion. So Mario can land on the left part of floor checked first, it fails the check since Mario's And then floor A passes the check, so it's And then similarly, Mario can land on the floor B is checked first, fails, floor A is But, when Mario goes in the middle, floor So floor A is never even considered, and so land on floor B. like this, with the bigger floor above the Instead, it could look like this, with the Here, the bigger floor's first vertex is so the smaller floor gets completely overshadowed. Like you can't land on any part of it. And the setup could even look like this, where Here, both triangles' first vertices are But one of them still has to be sorted higher just be whichever triangle is stored first So even though the two triangles' first turn out that the bigger floor's first vertex first vertex. So once again, the smaller floor gets completely of it. So let's look at some examples. In Lethal Lava Land, we have this little black And let me remove the fire to make it easier So this black hexagon structure juts out of like this. And I'm making them orange, which will signify Now, their first vertices are all here. So no surprises there, their first vertex But now let's look at the 6 sides of the first vertices are. On the first side, the triangles look like And I'm making these ones blue, which will or at least they might be. So these triangles have their first vertices So this is the exact scenario we just talked another floor, and their first vertex heights And in this case, it just so happens that than the orange first vertex. So these blue triangles get completely overshadowed, But that's just for this side. Let's look at the other sides too. On the second side, the triangles look like right corner, and so they also get overshadowed. On the third side, the triangles look like right corner, and so they get overshadowed. On the fourth side, the triangles look like right corner, and so they also get overshadowed. On the fifth side, the triangles look like right corner, and so they also get overshadowed. And then we have the sixth side. Now for the other 5 sides, the triangles were But for this last side, the triangles are left. So that gives us this triangle on the right, and so it gets overshadowed. And then we have this triangle on the left, So of all the triangles on the side of this triangle that doesn't get completely overshadowed. So as you're playing around near this black can just walk straight through it, because meaning they effectively have no collision. But if you go onto that one blue triangle can walk on it. And of course, the top of the structure isn't Then in Bowser in the Sky, we have this gray look at this one. The yellow disk has its triangles like this, So they're just at the height of the disk. Now let's look at the spike's triangles. On this first side, the floor triangle has So this one does NOT get overshadowed. Then on the second side, the floor triangle So this one also doesn't get overshadowed. Then on the third side, the floor triangle So this one also doesn't get overshadowed. And then on the fourth side, the floor triangle Now even though it's at the same height considered lower. So that means that this one side of the spike And so if you're playing around near here, the spike by passing through that blue floor. And hey look, I turned Mario into a traffic But note that if you go too near any of the those floors and get ejected from the spike. Then in Snowman's Land, there's this freezing And we're gonna be focusing on this chunk So the chunk of snow is on top of this orange You know, just at the height of the floor Now let's look at the sides of the chunk On this first side, the floor triangle has This ties the height of the orange first vertex, this triangle gets overshadowed. Then on the second side, the floor triangle so this one also gets overshadowed. Then on the third side, the floor triangle so this one also gets overshadowed. And then on the fourth side, the floor triangle so this one also gets overshadowed. So all four of its sides get overshadowed, at all. So for the other chunks of snow, you can go But not for that one chunk, it's completely And so you'll end up going right through Then in the volcano in Lethal Lava Land, we So the star platform juts out of these floors So just at the height of that floor. Now let's look at the floors on the star So on the front side, we have this ramp, whose This ties the height of the orange first vertices, so these triangles get overshadowed. Then we have these floors, whose first vertices get overshadowed. Then on the right side, we have these floors, they get overshadowed. Then on the back side, we have these floors, and so they get overshadowed. And then on the left side, we have these floors, meaning they don't get overshadowed. So of all the floors on this star platform, are the left side and the top. So if you're playing around near this star through the ramp, and through the front side, back side. All you can stand on is the left side of the Then in Bowser in the Dark World, we have So, let's start with this crystal. And let me just point out, these crystals in terms of their collision, they actually So I just wanted to clarify that so you don't So on this first side, the floor triangle On the second side, the floor triangle has On the third side, the floor triangle has And on the fourth side, the floor triangle Now, this crystal is located on top of this So let's look at it from the side and show You can see that the orange vertex is higher 4 floors on the crystal get overshadowed. So you can't land on top of this crystal. Then next let's look at this crystal. On the first side, the floor triangle has On the second side, the floor triangle has On the third side, the floor triangle has And on the fourth side, the floor triangle Now, you can see that the crystal is located here. So let's look at it from the side and show You can see that the orange vertex is higher one on top. So that means there's just one floor on And finally, let's look at this crystal. On the first side, the floor triangle has On the second side, the floor triangle has On the third side, the floor triangle has And on the fourth side, the floor triangle Now, you can see that this crystal is located here. So let's look at it from the side and show You can see that the orange vertex is higher one on top. So that means there's just one floor on And so if you're playing around near here, these 3 crystals. For the first one, all 4 of the floors on Though it's still pretty precise to get will push you out. For the second crystal, you can jump into that's still tangible. And then same thing on the third crystal. So if you want to impress your friends, challenge they fail, you do it. And during their attempt, maybe don't tell on. So anyway, those crystals are an example of above a bigger floor, and so the whole smaller Then in Bowser in the Fire Sea, we have this And I'll hide the mesh cage to make it easier So this elevator has a floor on the top. On the bottom, there's a ceiling. And on the 4 sides, there are also ceilings, So nothing out of the ordinary so far, it But now watch this. If we look inside the elevator, we can see That's not supposed to be there. But not only is there an extra texture there, So if we show all the floor triangles on this on the top and these two orange floor triangles But we're only concerned with these two So here are their first vertices. Even though they're at the same height, the blue vertex. So what that means is that the orange floor shaped hole in it. Now for the most part, you can't actually you from getting close enough. But at the top of the elevator ride where for a split second by going over the hole. But note that even at the top, you can't the wall pushes you out. And then in Tall, Tall Mountain, we have this And for some visuals, like this one, I'm the left screen and right screen. But anyway, here we have this orange floor floor on the side of the slope. So let's look at it from the side, and let's Now here are the triangles' first vertices. So you can see that the orange vertex is higher So what that means is that right at the section overshadows the blue floor, creating a little So if you're ever playing around here, a the slope by going through that little hole. It's like a little secret area in here, But if you move to the side, then you'll So those holes were an example of this setup, and so a portion of the upper floor gets overshadowed. So now you understand floor overshadowing. But you might be wondering, what does this Well, let's say floor A is actually part a ceiling underneath. Now we're gonna focus on the ceiling's As you can see, most of it stops at the floor through. And that's because the overshadowed part Consequently, the ceiling hitbox escapes through And this invisible wall isn't just a few This is like a whole section of ceiling leaking So basically, if you have two floors, with and you have a ceiling between the two floors, through the overshadowed part of the upper And the setup could even look like this, where So they overlap by the tiniest bit, and let So let's look at some examples. In Rainbow Ride, we have the chimney in the So let's look at it from the side, and let's We have this orange floor on top of the chimney, And here are their first vertices. Now even though they're at the same height, the blue vertex. So the orange floor overshadows the blue floor, roof right above the chimney. And then we have the ceiling on the underside floors. So the ceiling's upper hitbox leaks out a square-shaped invisible wall. So it's kind of funny. The chimney was meant to only be in the house, like we get a phantom chimney above the house And you can slide into this invisible wall, from earlier. But, once you start sliding into it, you're you can do to get out of it. Our sliding movement just gets continuously in place. And you can't even exit out on the pause out in certain stationary actions, which doesn't So it truly is a softlock. Then in Bob-omb Battlefield, we have this So let's look at it from the side, and let's So the sign's collision is like a little the sides and a floor on top. But what does it actually have? Well, the front side is a floor. The right is a ceiling. The back side is a ceiling. The left side is a wall. And the top is a floor. So only the left side and top are correct, side all failed to be walls. Now this sign is located on top of this orange And here are the floor triangles' first You can see that the orange vertex is higher So what that means is that the two floors And without the floors there, the ceiling So if you ever tried to travel above this But you can also just walk straight into the that side is an overshadowed floor. So it's kind of fun to play around with. But remember, the sign still has one wall So don't don't play around near the left Then still in Bob-omb Battlefield, we have Now here's what the fence's collision So you can see that its cross section has part on the top. But importantly, the triangle part is a ceiling So just keep that in mind as we go through Anyway, we have this orange floor next to fence. So let's look at it from the side, and let's Here are the triangles' first vertices. The orange vertex is just a tiny bit higher So the orange floor overshadows the blue floor, them, because these triangles are adjacent You know, like we talked about. But before I show the invisible walls for side of the fence. Because on this side, we have this orange on top of the fence. So let's look at it from the side, and let's Here are the triangles' first vertices. The orange vertex is just a tiny bit higher So the orange floor overshadows the blue floor, them, because these triangles are also adjacent. So now, let's look at the front of the fence, At these two corners of the ceiling triangle, so the ceiling leaks out, in just two unit So this is yet another invisible wall on the Though it is only 2 units, so not the worst Then we're back to inside the Jolly Roger So we have these orange floors on the wood, So let's look at it from the side, and let's Zooming out a little, here are their first You can see that the orange vertices are higher So what that means is that the blue floor the orange floors and blue floors are adjacent. So now, let's look at this wall on the side And one of the triangles on this wall is actually Now we're gonna do our old process. So we have two edge-vertices on this wall, This edge-vertex causes a floor overlap, which floor overshadows the blue floor, and lets And then same thing happening on the other So along this seam, we have ceiling columns floor, because those parts of the blue floor So I know we already have 4 invisible walls And I promise that that's the last one that's Then in the Tall, Tall Mountain slide, we You thought there were only 3 arches? Well, there's actually a fourth one later on with this one. We have this orange floor on top of the wood, So let's look at it from the side, and let's Here are the triangles' first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is higher So the orange floor overshadows the blue floor, rectangular hole, which covers the whole arch And then for the ceiling on the underside that hole. And so if you're going down the slide, you And that means all four arches in the slide Though note that you can go on the two sides overshadowed there. Then in Snowman's Land, we're back to So we have this orange floor on the snow, So let's look at it from the side, and let's Here are the triangles' first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is higher So what that means is that right at the tip hole from the floor getting overshadowed. And then on the bottom of the wood, there's So right at that little hole, the ceiling Now earlier, I said you shouldn't cut the wall there, but even on the corner itself So definitely not one of the better corners Then in Tick Tock Clock, we have this section So we have this orange floor on the bottom So let's look at it from the side, and let's Here are the triangles' first vertices. Now even though they're at the same height, the blue vertex. So what that means is that right at the tip hole from the floor getting overshadowed. And then on the bottom of the walkway, there's So right at that little hole, the ceiling So it's very similar to the previous one But at least at this corner, there's only So I guess it's only the second worst corner What the F? Wha? What did I wall kick on? I got robbed. What the F just happened? Then in Cavern of the Metal Cap, we have this Now we're gonna focus on one of the crystals, we're gonna focus on. You picked one? Okay, well you're wrong, because the answer So we have this blue floor on top of the crystal. And then along the edge, we have this orange So let's look at it from the side, and let's Here are the triangles' first vertices. Now even though they're at the same height, the blue vertex. And so what that means is that on top of the from the floor being overshadowed. And then for the ceiling on the bottom of that hole. So the other crystals - a-okay. But for this little baby crystal, you might And here I slide into the crystal while in shenanigans here too. Then in Bowser in the Sky, we have this steep So we have this orange floor on the side of It should have been a wall, but it's a floor the ramp a bit. And then we have these blue floors on top So let's look at it from the side, and let's Here are the triangles' first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is higher So what that means is that on the top of the from the floor being overshadowed. And then we also have a ceiling on the side wall, but it's a ceiling due to that same So the result is that the ceiling hitbox leaks So like normal, you can bonk on this invisible But this invisible wall is interesting because stand on. You just fall off of it. So just like we did in Snowman's Land, we wall, and he just kind of gets stuck there But you can get out of it. And you can also slide into the invisible we can do the animation shenanigans from earlier. So not only is Mario running in place, but which doesn't even look like somewhere you What are you doing, Mario? What the F is going on? And then we have several objects that have For example, the spinners in Tick Tock Clock. Zooming in a bit, we have this orange floor floor on top of the spinner. Here are their first vertices. Now even though they're at the same height, the blue vertex. So the blue floor gets overshadowed on its And so for this ceiling on the side of the part of the blue floor. But let me make a little change. See, the objects we're gonna examine will causes too. So to help you distinguish these new invisible make these ones green. In other words, if it's an invisible wall it'll be green. So, in this case, let's watch the spinner On this side of the spinner, we can see both of invisible wall. But on the other side of the spinner, it's But whether the invisible wall is green or can bonk on. Then in Shifting Sand Land, we have the tox So we have this orange floor on the inside of the box. Looking at it from the side, here are their You can see that the orange vertex is higher So what that means is that some of the blue And so for this ceiling between the floors, blue floor. So basically, as these tox boxes are rotating invisible walls above them from floor overshadowing. Then in Bowser in the Dark World, we have Zooming in a bit, we have this orange floor on the top of the axle. The blue first vertex is here, at the center in the exact same spot. Now even though they're at the same height, the blue vertex. So the blue floor gets overshadowed. And so for this ceiling between the floors, of the blue floor. And so, as the axle is rotating around, you'll and short bursts of red invisible wall. So I think it's fair to say, SM64 collision weirdly shaped at this many different angles. Uh! What was that? There's an invis wall there? I have never seen anyone hit that in my life. What the H was that? And then we have something similar going on But there's a critical difference. Here's where the axle is this time. You see, due to a bug in the code, the axle's where you see it graphically. Instead, the axle revolves around the pivot So let's pause it here, and now let's So we have this orange floor on the bottom of the axle. The blue first vertex is here, at the center in the exact same spot. Now even though they're at the same height, the blue vertex. So the blue floor gets overshadowed. And so for this ceiling between the floors, of the blue floor. But wait, we're not done yet. See, the axle is so close to the elevator at some points. So we have this orange floor on the elevator Here are their first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is higher So the blue floor gets overshadowed. And so for this ceiling on the axle, it leaks floor. So that's the elevator platform overshadowing But we also have a case of the axle overshadowing Specifically, we have this orange floor on platform. Here are their first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is higher So the blue floor gets overshadowed. And so for this ceiling on the underside of the overshadowed part of the blue floor, in So really, we have 3 different kinds of floor green invisible walls. And that's in addition to the regular red So basically, you really don't want to go And you can't even tell which elevator platform its collision is offset from its graphics. No! No! No! No! How did that happen? F! How did that happen? Then in Tick Tock Clock, we have the pendulums. So we have this orange floor on the yellow Here are their first vertices. Looking at it from the side, you can see that vertex. So the blue floor gets overshadowed. And then on the underside of the stick, we the overshadowed part of the blue floor. But we're not done yet, because we also part of the pendulum. So we have this orange floor on the side, floor on the top. Here are their first vertices. Now even though they're at the same height, the blue vertex. So the blue floor gets overshadowed. And so for this ceiling between the floors, of the blue floor. So as the pendulum swings around, you can both green ones and red ones. Look at it, it's like every single frame So I definitely don't recommend jumping That's just asking for trouble. Then in Jolly Roger Bay, we have the skull Currently, the skull box is on top of this And we have this blue floor on the side of Here are their first vertices. Looking at it from the side, you can see that vertex. So the blue floor gets overshadowed. And then on the underside of the skull box, the overshadowed blue floor. But that's just what's going on at this Because a bit later in the cycle, something So now the skull box is on top of this orange And we have this blue floor on the top of Here are their first vertices. Looking at it from the side, you can see that than the blue vertex. So the blue floor gets overshadowed. And then on the right side of the skull box, the overshadowed blue floor. So now, let's watch the skull box do a complete You can see that it doesn't have any invisible turns around, it has some red invisible walls, that we just discussed. So if you think about it, the skull box was you touch it, and so these invisible walls mission, because now it can get in your way And last example, we have the floating ship So on the front of the ship, we have this And we have this blue floor on the railing. Here are their first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is a bit So the blue floor gets overshadowed on its And so for this ceiling between the floors, part of the blue floor. But that's not all, because we also have Here, we have this orange floor on the side top of the railing. Here are their first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is higher So the blue floor gets overshadowed on its And so for this ceiling between the floors, part of the blue floor. So now, let's watch the ship do a full cycle. You can see that in addition to the two green are also a ton of red invisible walls, both floor and from floor gaps that let ceiling So it's like all the causes wanted to get And if you think about it, this ship has invisible now when it's floating. So it's like the trifecta of invisible walls. But here, that means whenever you jump onto the water. I'm just doing this. I don't care. Whatever. Oh my God! Holy F! I just can't, dude. I just can't get a break. I can't. Not again. Dude, why do I keep getting stuck there? Oh my God. Wha-hahahahahahahahahaha. What? What? What was that? Now there's one more topic we need to talk You see, in order for Maro to get squished, And then there are two requirements. First, the distance between the floor and 150 units. That's why you only get squished when the And second, at least one of the surfaces has So the floor could be an object, the ceiling objects. So you can get squished here because the ceiling You can get squished here because the floor But you couldn't get squished in here, because - no objects. And note that even if a ceiling would cause Like, it's still a ceiling hitbox that cancels into it. So instead, you basically need the ceiling Now when Mario's squished, he goes through simplified into 3 main steps. First, if the space between the floor and Mario takes 3 damage. So Mario has to be pretty squished in order And note that he won't take more damage repeatedly damage him every frame. Second, the game tries to give Mario a squish We'll get more into that in a bit. And third, Mario loses his speed and drops Now this third step can cause a big downwarp Like, you don't have to be between the floor You just have to be somewhere in the ceiling So if you're in the air and then the squishing to the floor. For example, watch what happens when a grindel Remember, ceilings don't push you down unless So here, Mario passes straight into the ceiling to the floor for a squish to happen, which So if ceiling hitboxes can squish Mario, what Well, think about the invisible walls we've There could be a floor gap that lets ceiling The ceiling could jut out and let ceiling And the floor could get overshadowed and let The first two cases would only cause a squish below the ceiling, in which case the invisible For example, these coffins have a floor below their invisible walls appears into you. Whomps have a floor below them, so you can appears into you. King Whomp has a floor below him, so you can appears into you. This elevator in the volcano starts near the its invisible walls appears into you. And the rolling log is above some floors, walls appears into you. But now consider the third case, an invisible It basically comes with its own floor right So that means it's highly susceptible to And remember, these ones and only these ones So if an invisible wall is green, meaning overshadowing, then it's very likely to can downwarp Mario. So let's look at some examples. The spinners in Tick Tock Clock can cause invisible walls. The falling blocks in Bowser in the Fire Sea one of their invisible walls. Now I didn't show these green invisible Let's pause it on this frame, zoom in a moment. So we have this orange floor on the lower upper block. Here are their first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is a bit the falling block has rotated. So the blue floor gets overshadowed a bit. And so for this ceiling between the floors, of the blue floor. And since that green invisible wall appears to the floor below him. And the same thing can happen with these falling Playing it again, let's pause it on this wall for the moment. So we have this orange floor on the lower upper block. Here are their first vertices. You can see that the orange vertex is a bit the falling block has rotated. So the blue floor gets overshadowed a bit. And so for this ceiling between the floors, of the blue floor. And since that green invisible wall appears to the floor below him. I said like a couple days ago that you were... What the F? Yeah it is, yeah. What? What happened there? What? The tox boxes in Shifting Sand Land can cause invisible walls. No! What? You've gotta be kidding me. The axle in Bowser in the Dark World can cause invisible walls. The axles in Bowser in the Sky can cause a invisible walls. And that little column of invisible wall can You can even get downwarped all the way to I should mention, if you get squished enough another half a second even after you're to squish in the first place. So during that half second, if the floor moves down below, because you're still in the set to the height of the floor below you every So that's why squishing can downwarp you Dude, what the F! Oh my God. I've hit this F'ing invisible wall like how Is my game-. What the F is happening? Is my cartridge F'ing bugged? Do I have solar flares? No no no no no no no! Are you-. No! Oh my gosh. I just can't believe what I'm seeing, dude! What the F? Oh my God! It's a disaster, man! What the H. What is the wall? The pendulums in Tick Tock Clock can cause invisible walls. And I actually downwarped all the way to the from under me. Oh my God. Wha? Wha? I just-. Wha? I just downwarped like 100 feet. What do you mean? The skull box in Jolly Roger Bay can cause invisible walls. And I'm gonna go for this. Wha? And the ship in Jolly Roger Bay can cause invisible walls. And as you can see, if the ship moves out second downwarped to the bottom of the lake. But once the half second is over, he upwarps entering water upwarps you to the water's And invis wall. Yup. Yu-up! So like one day have it better. Bro! What? Now let's go back and talk about the squish Basically, when you're squished, the game More specifically, if the floor is at a steep Mario's squished inside, then the game gives more room, which is an attempt to get him And this little push is what we call a "squish Let's take a closer look. Now the ceiling hitbox is still in play here, to go into it. So there are basically 3 cases of what can Case 1: The squish push puts Mario into the nothing happens. Case 2: If Mario's pretty close to the bound can put him outside of squishing range and Here's what that looks like in the game. You can see that Mario gets just a little But there's a third case. And I'll shrink the floor a bit to make If the squish push puts Mario into the air, This code puts Mario into the standing action, air. But more importantly, this standing action no more squish logic will occur. And so we call it, a "squish cancel". So let's walk through the whole process, So let's say Mario's in the air, and there's wall right into him. Since the surfaces belong to an object and floor and the ceiling, Mario enters the squished So now we follow the steps on the left. So first, Mario may or may not receive damage, and the ceiling are. Let's say they're not close enough, so Second, Mario gets the squish push, which the direction with more room between the floor The squish push moves Mario a little to the air. I mean, he was already in the air, but what's he ends up in the air. That triggers the special code for a squish and puts Mario into the standing action. And that's it. We never even get to the third step where So that's the cool thing about a squish It lets you keep your speed and keep your action. And then on the next frame, Mario enters the in the air. So basically, a squish cancel lets you transition freefall. So let's look at some examples. Here I do a squish cancel on a spinner. So I go from long jumping to freefall, and Like, you can't normally ground pound when But the squish cancel transitions Mario from to ground pound. Here I squish cancel on the elevator axle And you can see that squish cancels can give and the ceiling is too small. Because remember, the damage is given out cancel happen on step 2. Here I squish cancel on the elevator axle Now since squish cancels can give out damage, Watch here as I squish cancel three times second. So it just seems like Mario dies out of nowhere, in quick succession. And squish canceling on the elevator axle fastest way to beat the game. See, Mario backwards long jumps on the elevator to redirect that speed, and then does a huge faster you're moving, the higher you jump. We can squish cancel on the pendulums in Tick And remember what I said, squish canceling you're in the air. So you can actually jump on that one frame pretty cool. But that's not the only height advantage See, squish canceling on the pendulums is Here we have the pendulum repeatedly squish ground pounds all the way up to the ledge You get it? Like each ground pound raises Mario by a little squish cancels him, putting him back into pound, and so on. And so you can see that each time a green gets interrupted by the squish cancel, and And so we call this technique a squish cancel And squish canceling on the pendulums is also in Tick Tock Clock. So first Mario backwards long jumps on the Then he launches towards the pendulum for And then Mario's speed is redirected and And this squish cancel was actually done on Let's pause it, zoom in, and show the surface So on this frame, Mario's above this floor So those are the surfaces that he squishes And the ceiling leaks out not because of floor above the ceiling that lean slightly forwards. Then here I squish cancel on the skull box midair. Here I squish cancel on the ship in Jolly in quick succession. The result is that Mario falls really slowly, vertical speed back to 0. So he never builds up very much downwards And last use case, here I use the squish cancels really high up. You know, because each squish cancel gives use that jump to enter another squish cancel Here it is from another angle. It's pretty crazy to watch. Mario can just jump up with no actual geometry And here it is again, but this time without It's like Mario's climbing an invisible over. How does he do it? Well, now you know. So yeah, that's the eighth cause of invisible with Ceiling in Between". And so there you have it. That's all 8 causes of invisible walls, game. So as you've come to learn, invisible walls It's just 8 simple causes, following the And now that it's all explained, there'll There's a bright future ahead of us, full And I'll be there to explain it all. Welcome to the new era! Now the video's actually not over yet. I have one more surprise for you that you're of this video. But before we get to that, I want to say some So first, a big thanks to all the members on this video. See, this video took 10 months to make, which life. But I felt that explaining this topic was weird interactions in the game. And now that this video's done, I should faster pace. So if you want to see more videos about deep sure to subscribe. Now, making videos about Super Mario 64 is So my dream goal would be to make this my So with that as my goal, I've decided to See, to become a member of my channel, you That lets you become a member, meaning you You'll also get access to custom emotes But to really make it worth your while, at I call a "member event". But to clarify, member events will only happen they're too pressed for time) and not music from their artistic merit). But on regular videos, like this one, we're The way it'll work is that all the member So you, the member in real life, can just do all the work for you. And the specifics of what your names will Now, I've created different membership tiers, So first, we have tier 1, which is $5. In this one, your name will appear along with be black text. Then second, we have tier 2, which is $10. In this one, you can choose a color for your So just leave a comment saying what color Then third, we have tier 3, which is $15. In this one, you can choose a gradient for So you can comment something like, blue on Or red, white, and blue. You could even say rainbow. Then fourth, we have tier 4, which is $20. In this one, you can have a moving gradient Looks pretty cool, doesn't it? And fifth, we have tier 5, which is $25. In this one, you get all the previous perks, call out your name during the event, like So let's do a member event right now. Instead of all your names being boxes, let's And they're all coming after me! First one to hit me gets first, second one So now it's a full on competition between Will you win? Will you lose? Only way to find out is to become a member. And to clarify, all members will have an equal they're in. So the higher tiers are really just aesthetic, So as you can see, I'm trying to escape to hide on this box. I know, I'll go to the right, but... tricked I'm going left. Ugh, get out of here CadBrad, I'm trying Well there's only 3 of them left, so surely Nope, vija got me. And now just 2 remain. Who's gonna get second to last? And it's Lady Houndstooth. Which means that last place goes to 2WaterGuns, Uh! There we go. And that's it. So congratulations to our first place finisher, There's no prize or anything, it's all Well, and bragging rights. So if you want to get in on the next member joining my channel as a member. It really does help. And now for the surprise. See, I wanted to do something special to celebrate So I present to you, a NEW version of Super This time, featuring the game's invisible Think of it as a tribute to just how glitchy After all, it's not that we love this game glitches and all. So here's to all of our glitchy experiences, and the many more to come that'll hopefully So thanks for watching this video, and enjoy the finale!