- This is a normal knife and this is the world's sharpest knife. This is an ordinary skateboard and this is a jet-powered skateboard. And today we're gonna be reacting to the coolest homemade - Ever. - Starting with the - I'll be the judge of that. - How do you determine on the planet sharper? - You have to take the and put it against the new one. And if it cuts the world's sharpest knife, it's now the new sharpest knife. - I doubt that's how that works. - Look at that, it also cuts- - paper really well. - I mean, it's sharp but how do we know it's the world's sharp... Oh, well, those balloons didn't Everyone knows balloons are as hard as diamond. This guy's gonna make chain mail out of the tabs of soda. - I had this because I was drinking a Dr. Pepper. - Oh, my gosh. - My church used to And they said it was to recycle, to raise money for something. But what if they were just building armor in the back? - Your church just has Their arms are covered in Dr. Pepper. - Three, two, one. - He put his back into that. - Looks like it still hurt. - See, I was about to say, like, you might not get cut from it. - But you still got a broken rib. - Yeah, I wouldn't have any air in my lungs anymore. - And if you thought that was cool, this is a flying box fan drone. - Oh, my God. They're using box fans. - That's genius. - No, that's genius. - That's genius. - Oh, my God. What if you just had one of and you just went outside, you're like, &quot;My fan's flying away.&quot; Everyone... Ooh. - That was cool. - They got 30 seconds. You didn't even get to finish your story. - So in the history of mankind, a Nerf dart has never Let's see it. Boom. - Ooh. - Wait, did it go through it? - Why does this look so, like, dark and mysterious? That looks like it was in a &quot;Batman&quot; film. It looked like it was the Joker and the Red Bull's like, This is how to make a tin can robot. Okay, what is he doing with this can? - Hey, this feels like we're - The life hacks. - Who was here when we - No one. - No one was here. - What is he doing? - Making a robot. - That just looks like a car. But does this robot do anything? Oh, it does. - That's a cute robot. - That is pretty cute. If it wasn't cute, I would've said that was the stupidest thing ever. - Take the eyeballs off and it's lame. I'd argued the same thing with Chris. No eyeballs? Bye. All right, this is a TV. I'm not gonna read the notes so I don't know what he's doing. - That's not a TV. That's a computer monitor. - I didn't read the notes. - Wait, okay. They took the film out of the monitor and then cut it into some glasses. And look. - Yeah. Look at that. work like that? - Only with like those old monitors. - Is that why it showed YouTube from like 30 years ago? - Yeah. - That's cool. All right, so this is into a crossbow. - This is how to take care next to you. You know, they eat - You can't take time to go to a store to get a real crossbow. What? You got a deadline. - You got a job here. let you use the bathroom. They're not gonna let you go get a crossbow. So you make do what you got there. &quot;How to Make a Knife from Kitchen Foil.&quot; - Is that, like, kitchen - Aluminum deez nuts. Sorry. - I haven't deez nuts- - in this video, I had to. - And it wasn't even that good. - Even though it wasn't good... I agree, it wasn't good. I had to. It's mandatory. Every That looks real. - It is real. - But what is aluminum foil made out of? - Imagine if that was your pee-pee. - Why did I show up today? - Put that in or I quit. What can you cut with paper? You can cut a coconut. I know 'cause we did it. Dude, this was so fun. Remember when we did this? - We made a whole video - Yeah, we had the exact same thing here. - Isn't that crazy that that &quot;All right, we're gonna off of this.&quot; - It is so much easier. Now I gotta like, I gotta recreate &quot;Squid Game&quot; $3 million on a video. But back then I was like... - L. a circle off a paper and - Yo, why would you recreate &quot;Squid Game&quot; when you could just microwave a microwave? - DIY mini gun. Mini gun, right? Hold up, what are we - Wait a minute. - Does it actually work? - Yeah, This is cool. - This is very cool. here's how you do it. Just skip a few steps and then boom.&quot; How does it actually work? - That's cool. Forging a bow out of rusted leaf spring. - I don't know what a leaf spring is. Oh, that's that thing on a truck. - So he's forging a bow out of metal. - Oh, this is like a &quot;Lord Ooh, it's getting pretty. - On one shot, it's rusty. - You gotta believe it. - How long do you think it - I don't know but he said it was... Oh, my gosh. - Now it's got wood and... Wow. That was cool. - Yes. - In order to turn this into a tiny knife, we're going to do some forging on it. - These are the type of videos when I don't know what else to do. Just people forging stuff. - Wow. - That's higher quality than my eyes. What happens if you put tracks on a Ford? - Tractor. - This clip is only here for Chris because he is a truck nerd. - I'm not a truck nerd. I just like... Oh, look at that. That's - &quot;I'm not a truck nerd. Oh, my god. Truck.&quot; - Don't go, man. Oh, I actually have always wanted You can't stop them. No one can stop you either. And it's street legal. That is a completely street legal deal. - Look at that. - That is kinda cool. - They can't be stopped. Look at it. That's so cool. You got - Your circles turned into triangles. - We've been using It's time to use triangles. - Circle triangle. - Why you so mean to me? - Jet-powered boosted board. - You shouldn't be allowed to just do this 'cause, like, maybe this guy came but what if somebody - What is that guy, Surfer? The Silver Surfer? What's his name? - Silver Surfer. - Oh. - What's that? What's that - I literally just 'cause he is silver on like a surfboard. - That's probably why they - Oh. - Yeah, that's pretty cool. - That guy's living his best life. I'm proud of you, man. - I expected jet power to be like... - Something like flames flying out. Agreed. - This is cool but it looks safe. When I hear jets, I think . - Roomba pool cleaner. - Ooh. Pretty 3D printing. - Oh, is that the things - Those are like paddle wheels. - Oh. - You know what he's making? It's literally like but they clean his pool. - Oh, my gosh. Wait, how does this work? - And it just goes. That's pretty cute. It's like, &quot;I'm gonna - What happens if, you know, You got thousands of This little boy ain't handling that. - That's a little boy. He can't handle that many leaves. I need a big boy. - I would say I'd give it Usability, I don't know. Up next is an automatic bullseye. Now here's the thing. If you wanna skip this clip, you can. I mean obviously, this - They're not very interesting. - I mean, we've all built a bullseye that moves to catch a dart. It's not that crazy. Like, you just put some Like, what? He probably spent like only a year or two making this, like... - You're so aggressive to Mark. I love it. - The more I like someone, the - He must like me so much. Jokes aside, this thing is really cool. You literally can't miss the bullseye. And after building it, and look at these people. - They've had a little bit of apple juice so they don't understand what's going on. And they think they're That's pretty funny. - Apple juice. - Oh, my gosh. - That is a ginormous - Oh, Oh. Oh, my God. - Come here, sir. I'm not gonna kill it. You just catch it and then now - But what if he comes back? - If the hand of God just and put you somewhere, - Kinda. I'd be like, &quot;Wee.&quot; All right, steam-powered Nerf gun. A lot of Nerf stuff in this video. - I like the steam. I feel like we should have - Steam-powered video games. - Yeah, imagine if we had steam-powered computers. - Not to cut you off, but This makes me want to go play &quot;Black Ops - Zombies&quot; right now. You wanna go? - All right, thanks for watching. Subscribe.