Of all the interactions you have interacting with artificial intelligence -- or not -- feels like a choice. But in some ways it isn't. Over the past decade, that perceive our world, that support our decisions Whether we're aware of it Imagine a day like this. You do some exercise with a smartwatch, go to a friend's house doorbell, browse Check your spam folder for an email And when you can't find it, Each of those things are made possible that fall under the umbrella But when a Pew survey asked Americans to identify or not, they only got it right about 60% of the time. Some of these applications of AI They almost exist in the background, that the tools or services by this technology. That's Alec Tyson, one of the researchers When Tyson and his team asked respondents almost half didn't think Some of them might be right, We know about 85% of US adults are Some folks are online almost all the time. This suggests a bit of a gap who really must be interacting with a AI, They don't perceive it. So why does that gap exist? Part of the problem intelligence has been used to refer Artificial intelligence is totally that now has become a kitchen That's Karen Hao. She's a reporter who covers In the past, about which aspect of the human brain Like do Do we want to recreate our ability Giving the machine the ability to see Giving the machine became the field But on their own, these tasks If we wanted machines to recognize spam to look out for specific things, That meant the tools weren't But that all changed when we started recreating the brain's ability This became where computers are trained on needing to hand-code rules about what those computers can develop rules With machine learning, a computer by reviewing thousands of existing emails The machine recognizes patterns data and creates its own rules When the training data hasn't that method is called "deep learning." Most of the time they're not talking about the whole field, We'll hear more about that after a word from this video's sponsor. This episode is presented by Microsoft for Microsoft 365, Copilot can help you solve going far beyond simple questions on a missed Teams meeting in seconds in Word, copilot for Microsoft 365 in their most essential apps to unleash creativity, unlock And it's all built on Microsoft's privacy, compliance and responsible AI. Microsoft does not influence but they do help make videos like this To learn more, you can go to Microsoft.com/copilotforwork. Now back to our video. Improvements in computing power, together generated on the Internet, made possible that leveraged machine learning. their algorithms for machine A lot of the "how" in the back because people have realized, "oh wait, performance of this product our original code Now, machine learning and deep for shows, music, They determine the ranking of items or social media feeds. They recognize or use filters, and the handwriting They recognize speech in transcription, voice assistants, and voice-enabled TV remotes. And they predict text But AI is seeping into more than that. There has been this tendency where people have started putting AI into absolutely everything. Machine learning algorithms are already being used to decide which political ads and whether we qualify for loans and often carry the same biases Are you actually automating making that happened in the past If you're going to use historical data what's going to happen in the future, you're just going to end up with a future And that's part of the reason between those who knowingly interact and those who don't quite know it yet. Awareness needs to grow for folks in some of these conversations what air should be used for, Over the past decade, we've become surrounded by AI systems that support our decisions, to create. Over the past decade, we've become surrounded that support our decisions, But over the past decade, that perceive our worlds, and that mimic our ability to create. Over the past decade, that perceive our worlds, that support our decisions, Whether we're aware of it But when a Pew survey asked Americans AI, they only got it But when a Pew survey asked Americans to identify they only got it right But when but when a. But when a Pew survey but when a Pew survey asked. But when a pew. But when a Pew survey asked. But when a Pew survey asked Americans to identify they only got it right But when a Pew survey asked Americans but when a Pew survey asked Americans to identify they only got it right We'll hear more about that after a word from this video sponsor. We'll hear we're going to hear more about that after. We'll hear more about that We'll hear more about that. We'll hear more about that now, machine learning. Now machine learning and deep learning. Now, machine learning and deep for shows, recommendations. Recommendations for shows. Recommendations We'll hear more about. We'll hear more about that We'll hear more about that. We'll hear more about that sponsor. Okay, great. Hi, I'm Karen Howe and I am a reporter artificial intelligence And I am currently also working on a book AI for Penguin Press and totally, yeah, yeah, yeah. Artificial Intelligence is totally it's become a kitchen sink of everything And this sort of helps to understand The origins of the term of an academic field called A.I., and it was a group of academics in the US at Dartmouth University to decide that They wanted to be the founding fathers they wanted to try and attain human level And there were there have been over from like a scientific perspective From what? Like one of those hypotheses is that we are intelligent and so we should build all of the rules that we know Another theory has been we are intelligent so we should build intelligent computers And so that theory that second one the dominant paradigm of everything. Basically everything that we see today and those learning machines and machine in the last decade and a half learning like statistical calculations fancier statistical calculations. And there's a whole range of commercial particular technology that have really nothing to do But more just companies And so they're going to keep doing that. So deep learning technologies self-driving cars, facial recognition and all the way up today All of these count as deep learning. And what deep learning ultimately is doing is it's these techniques that allow to become fairly ubiquitous. They almost exist in the background, that what they're the tools or services powered by this technology. And I return to the point we where it's more apparent chatbots, for example, in this example, but that's one where it's that that a computer or at least mimicking some thinking more associated some of the consumer technology has become And it's harder for folks to perceive go about their lives and it well, one thing that we know is a question we ask very simple question A You know, on the one hand, at least a little about it, but only Sort of a deep or rich knowledge Why do we care about awareness? It's really the first step with the host of moral raises for society. So we're at a really interesting where most Americans are generally aware But deep knowledge, And it is growing. But it needs to grow for folks in some of these conversations What I should be used for So that's part of why and why we feel it's important. Know Yeah, well, one thing that we do know the same level of awareness something like artificial intelligence Probably the biggest factor Where college graduates they express and they score better on our awareness And that's important. It just sort of underscores that these conversations are a bit different whether it's you're in a formal education setting or a job or maybe you're not in those settings. So absolutely, there are differences like formal education, job type or social circles that really matter of understanding, interpreting and how So, well, with artificial intelligence, but access We'll folks who do understand and leverage it to their advantage, And there's the conversation around that But that's certainly is there's immense power They may not be equally available spheres of the public in Is that okay? That's a public conversation to have. That's part of what our research can do is provide a foundation So, well, I'm in trouble now. I've gone too far with Shad I hear the heavy hand of lies and deceit. Absolutely. I mean, part of what we do at the center, an enormous amount of time The ultimate question of all the versions And we had to balance considerations here. One is we can't use necessarily highly technical which don't resonate well with folks who So there's many other ways and there's more to do on this front, But we thought a good first step some applications that are fairly or at least these of the tools We thought There may be other ways to go deeper. Some of the more complex that's But we wanted to start with ten folks is, that play We use tools online today, like online trackers. Let's start there Well, that's that is the question is as folks I increasingly shape the way we work live, What do we need to understand Right now, among the public about A.I., right? Far more say they're concerned and excited How will that change going forward? A little more awareness only reinforce or direction, whereas the more aware folks We've seen examples of both in our past There is it's a story But it's one that's important to follow. Early indications that the public is actually a bit more aware of the ways in which air Spaces like health and medicine, spaces perhaps some potential uses There's some concern out there about how this is all going to play out in the. Yeah, absolutely. And they're really sort of multiple prongs which is for some of and Health and medicine, we focus a little bit less on awareness How would you feel? Would you feel comfortable with air Would you be open to using AI and skin cancer detection? So in some of the most perhaps potentially impactful on people's