Absolute zero. - 273,15 degrees and zero point on the Kelvin scale. The point the absolute coldest anything can be. The point stops moving... Well, that's how it would be in classical ever reach absolute zero. So, why is that? kinetic energy of particles in matter. The faster temperature drops when atoms slow down. Logically, coldest matter can be, so that is absolute zero. mechanics, the collection of mathematical who first formulated the laws of motion that scale, from planets to stars to humans and our physicists discovered that these theories were happens on the very smallest scales, on the of elementary particles and quantum mechanics, matter and energy behave on the most fundamental lowest temperature possible could be reached, energy that cannot be removed and this is called uncertainty principle, which states that you can given particle. For example, if you try to measure you can never be entirely sure of its position. If sure of its energy. And so particles always lowest energy state. I know that seems counter The temperature of space itself is about 2.7 stars and planets and clouds of Interstellar dust interact with each other and heat things up. 6 protons per cubic meter, and since that's an cosmic clouds is even emptier and colder. The a few degrees above 0 Kelvin is because of the leftover glow of an event called the Last after the Big Bang itself. At this point, of of particles bouncing around, now that its and so it was cold enough that electrons could stopped electrons from endlessly scattering and this radiation is still detectable The coldest place in our Solar System is, at the Moon's poles where sunlight never reaches Sun can't interact with the surface and can't this way for billions of years. It's estimated Even the average surface temperature of dwarf which is quite a bit warmer. If you want to lowest temperature ever measured on Earth was 184 That's almost cozy compared to 25 Kelvin. If we an even colder place in the Oort Cloud, which icy pieces of space debris around the Sun. It's with their orbits of 200 years or more. Now trillions of small, cold and dark objects, it's its size and overall shape, and it seems only gravity of the Milky Way itself probably disturb especially from the outer regions. The cloud may the Solar System, Proxima Centauri, which is about Cloud could be as cold as 5 Kelvin. The coldest Boomerang Nebula, at about 5,000 light years away dying sunlike star at its heart. Now this star is and cools down so quickly its temperature has the surrounding cosmic microwave background. The colder are laboratories here on Earth, where only 38 picoKelvin. And yes that's a zero with 12 The idea of an absolute minimal temperature goes have fine tuned ways to calculate absolute zero, down to as close to this point as they can. and find the temperatures at which most known is mostly known for his work with electricity but for instance becomes liquid below - 33deg C and it C and freezes below - 101deg C. With the technology temperature of- 130deg C, but this was not cold and hydrogen. These gases would only liquefy at which mostly consists of nitrogen and oxygen, was -195deg C. Oxygen was liquefied separately in 1883, liquefied in 1898 at - 249deg C. Dutch physicist liquefying helium in 1908 at- 269deg C, or only 4.15 helium he cooled it even further down to only achieved on Earth at the time and Kamerlingh 1913. This was an important scientific milestone, materials at these extremely low temperatures At they low enough of a temperature, certain to zero. The neat thing with super conductivity apparent only at extremely low temperatures. a lot of resistance, like gold for instance, the well but they still get scattered around a little and the vibrations of the particles in the atoms is why your electrical devices heat up when you enough, something peculiar starts to happen with literally stick together but they become coupled through the material freely, and so they don't and so your material becomes superconducting. material don't vibrate too much and that is why it a loop of superconducting wire can essentially never loses any energy. Now because a closed this field also becomes permanent as long as magnets have many applications but probably which use liquid helium to cool superconducting to make high contrast images of the human in Switzerland also uses superconducting magnets downside is that these magnets need to be kept possible with liquid helium and that requires very superconductivity is still ongoing and it turns superconducting at slightly higher temperatures. is quite a bit more practical and a lot cheaper hand ceramic materials are harder to make into for materials that can become superconducting of this research is superconductors at room energy efficient than anything we have right now. pushes away any outside magnetic field and so you magnet float above the superconducting construction of super highspeed trains. also happens at near absolute zero and that is to break the laws of physics as we know them. would slowly creep over the edges and leak out. cracks in its container, and if you would stir or at least as long as you can keep the material zero viscosity. It has no friction with any other and it has no friction with itself. A regular walls of the class or cup it's in but friction nicely put if you leave it alone. The particles much energy and so they constantly bump into each effect that causes superfluidity is overcome. Now only happens with liquid helium. Helium is quite normal atmospheric pressure you need to cool it in the first place, and it remains a liquid or at least as close as you can possibly get solidify helium by applying a high amount helium in nature is helium 4, with its core and with two electrons circling the core. Because the way down to 4 Kelvin, all the helium 4 atoms start to behave in the same way. They no longer and so it flows out of its container and will completely amazing because it's a quantum effect even if it needs very specific circumstances One other quantum effect I want to talk about and superconductivity and so also needs extremely But first there's a couple more things In classical mechanics we like to imagine each other, but this is not what quantum physics it's not possible to know all properties of a as more of a vague blob or tiny cloud, or a little are waves and this wave function is where we position can never be known with 100% certainty, or a wave of probability with its own energy head around, that's just quantum physics for ya. down, into the nanoKelvins, their energies start wave packets grow bigger and their wavelengths these waves start to overlap and blend into they were one big atom. They don't become solid their individual energy identity and you can't into this single collective quantum wave. a different state of matter from solid, liquid, in laboratories because we don't know of any such it could only be made in very small amounts anything outside of the extremely cold and turn it back into a normal gas. Just so you are also different states of matter outside of condensate was predicted in the 1920's by Albert Satyendra Nath Bose. It wouldn't be until 1995 a group of scientists under the leadership of received a Nobel Prize for the research in 2001, who also made a Bose-Einstein condensate just a into this is important to help us understand developing nano technology and quantum technology, holes and neutron stars. It may even be useful to unify the theory of gravity and quantum One of the coolest things that a Bose-Einstein light. The speed of light that you often see but many substances like regular old water at least from our point of view. From the they always keep going at the same speed. Weird, So, in simple terms, a Bose-Einstein condensate changing its frequency by pointing a laser at it. the same time you send a light pulse through it, it completely. This is what Danish physicist Lene and the year after she and her team effectively condensate. The important part here is that store information in this brand new way for the making of quantum computers. As it is, its infancy but new discoveries are being made bring. Thank you for watching, I hope you learned