The hard disk drive used to be the And it remains a wondrous piece of literally flying over glass platters How can such a technical miracle also be such In this video we look at the birth, boom, ## Beginnings In 1952, IBM asked a former high school teacher named Reynold B. Johnson to lead Johnson was a talented inventor. Early a machine that could grade pencil-marked Soon IBM bought the rights After inventing several new things, IBM asked him to go out to San Jose and Back then, San Jose was a small agricultural research lab there largely because it was between Johnson had wide leeway to hire 30-50 him. They took on a variety of A random access processing system to Now, I have never heard of a tub file before. very quickly helped you access certain okay in some use cases, but not so much Tub files are a form of &quot;random access&quot; - piece of information in a sequence This is different from sequential through everything in the sequence When it comes to memory systems, ## Disks The IBM team decided to explore magnetic recording A magnetic recording system stores A mounted head would then read or The IBM team evaluated several forms magnetic drums, magnetic plates, Johnson eventually used a stack of rotating read/write heads mounted on a common actuator. He it gave you for the size as well as the potential In an early prototype, they took about 120 a shaft. Each disk was about two feet inch apart. The whole array spun ## Buiding RAMAC First, they needed to figure out the iron oxide paint onto One engineer suggested spinning the disks at same paint used for the Golden Gate Bridge, uniformly across the whole surface. This The second major problem had to do with wobble. keep all of the heads at least a thousandth of an A team led by Bill Goddard and John Lynott So then we can use air pressure to creating an air cushion that kept the it would move up and down to the In 1956, IBM introduced the 305 "Random or RAMAC. RAMAC is a transaction processing system built around what is widely acknowledged The drive was made up of 50 iron oxide-coated a quarter of a million dollars, held about 4.4 These stats might sound ridiculously comedic marvel. Particularly mechanically - being In his RAMAC product announcement Thomas Watson Jr. said that it was the Production ramped up in the San Jose to the Zellerbach Paper Company Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev visited ## An Industry is Born IBM made the disk drive a necessary part First, the other computer makers started producing their own hard disk drives. Then independent disk companies - Products - popped up. They offered third makers lacking the expertise or During the mid-1960s, Japanese players producing their own hard drives too. what they made was only for internal consumption. Then in 1966, IBM introduced its 2314 It not only offered more speed and performance, but its 29-megabyte disk pack format made it A new wave of independent companies those products to IBM customers as being ## Winchester with world-leading innovations Their crowning moment came about in 1973 drive. The name derives from a comment by The original project spec was to each. Haughton heard people calling it then it must be a Winchester&quot;. Up until then, the disks in the packs accessible. But this accessibility came So IBM sealed off the disks, their individual This not only fixed the contamination issues, That's because it let them cut the distance thousandth of what it had been with the RAMAC. the disks can be. So the Winchester cut the The Winchester design became an blueprint for all other such devices people didn't call HDDs &quot;hard drives&quot;. ## Shugart One of the guys working on the Winchester's Born during the Great Depression, of the Redlands and went to work There Shugart led various memory cheap read-only device for transferring very small it the &quot;Type 1 Diskette&quot; at its release in 1973, Anyway, Shugart would have stayed at IBM his to New York. He did not want that. So badly he Thus he quit in 1969 and joined a company called Then after that, he started his own clashed with his fellow cofounders Shugart Associates went on to dominate the floppy drive markets. Xerox acquired them ## Shugart 2 After leaving the company with his name on Did some salmon fishing. Ran a bar or back to memory and found another company The company's original name but that was too similar to Shugart of a different name - with an S at the He went with Seagate. In founding the IBM Winchester drive for the then-burgeoning PC-makers had adopted Shugart Associates' build a hard disk drive that can fit in the By the way, the 5.25 inch floppy itself Dr. An Wang of Wang Laboratories. floppy was too big and expensive Anyway, in 1980 Seagate announced megabytes of storage far outclassed a Despite being priced at over $1,000 each, made $9.8 million revenues in 1981. And then $40 ## Engineering Marvels We should take a pause to catch our breath and The core concept had not changed all disk or RAMAC. There are four key sub-components: The platters, motors, read-write Bits of data are stored on tracks which today are made from glass substrates. We mount the platters on spindles and use the motors to spin them 3,600 The data is then accessed by the heads, which &quot;fly&quot; over those platters Electronics help position and support these they align and un-align. They feed So yeah, HDDs today work the same way saying that the Ford Model T shares 400. The engineering to achieve the core Even that first 5-megabyte Winchester marvel. Seagate's engineering VP Doug a Boeing 747 flying at Mach 4 That was back then. Today, the heads fly as Producing these machines requires lots of capital assemble them inside expensive cleanrooms, and ## Commoditization So how did the market turn all this There have been a few reasons. Computer memory commodity. The customer always wants more storage, &quot;Brand value&quot; never really gained traction systems because of something new. Like a new cannot imagine many people would buy a new PC As a result, PC assemblers played each HDD the spec for the lowest price. IBM is all of the HDDs for their rapidly growing PC In 1983, IBM released their PC-XT - the had a 10 megabyte HDD sourced largely from IBM demanded heavy qualification those suppliers. They also refused rightly thinking that it did not make sense ## Piling In So that is from the customers' perspective. The HDD itself is a modular device. The but separate. And only two contribute to storage capacity and other performance metrics So new HDD firms can tweak one of these two Then integrate those bits and quickly bring a Furthermore, the HDD firms did knowledge and innovations of HDD researchers was small and ideas But whenever a new firm managed new hit format or technology, the together something of their own. That For instance, in 1983 the Scottish firm patented - a 3.5 inch HDD format. They were one of the few European HDD startups The 3.5 inch format did not gain when another company called Conner Peripherals The new format's popularity invited massive their competitors' scale and capability. They and evolved into a patent troll. Which is sad. Here is a later example. Giant Nobel-winning quantum effect discovered in HDD's read/write head, allowing for Despite being discovered in Europe, an GMR in 1997 with a 16.8 Gigabyte and Read-Rite had their own GMR And then there were the Japanese, own GMR technology. Toshiba announced One of Toshiba's later products was a tiny 1.8 with it. But Steve Jobs and Jon Rubinstein ## Venture Capital was funded by a flood of The end of the 1970s saw changes in the investment regulations, which enabled Seagate went public in September 1981, a their HDD in 1980. They raised $26 million, and Seagate's VCs made good money. After the IPO, million. It paved the way for how VCs would By mid-1983, there were 12 VC-backed on the stock market, and their The market was hot. So VCs raised big funds and recruiting smart people from established From 1977 to 1984, 43 different disk drive and 1984 alone, 21 startups raised over By then there were something like seventy pulled back in 1983 and 1984, it triggered a huge Nevertheless, this Zerg rush of entrants vastly was held by the old vertically integrated the Old Guard had just 7.9% share. They ## Globalization In the beginning, US firms dominated the Japanese and European companies big Japanese computer makers - Fujitsu, Hitachi, NEC and Toshiba - originally produced their HDDs However, despite some interesting innovations they market. That is because the Americans themselves In 1984, Seagate began outsourcing the assembly of its HDDs to Singapore. Several This move was facilitated by the Singapore one of the most famous cases of Singapore was the world's largest producer When Singapore's labor costs also rose, low-value read/write head emigrated to other Southeast Asian took on new tasks like fabricating the platters For information about this, I did history and challenges of Thailand's HDD industry. The Japanese did eventually &quot;cache up&quot;, well. And in the early 2000s they even when Hitachi merged with IBM before competition ## Responses This intense competition and globalization From 1976 to 1987, the HDD's In 1977, a megabyte of data storage cost that had fallen to just $6.86. But that was a situation that matured and companies began exiting the market. There is a whole Wikipedia page firms and when they exited the market. It is long. The number of HDD firms peaked in 1990 with 66. in half to 33. Failures included companies Comport, PrarieTek, Priam, and Tulin. By Yet even after that vicious shakeout, the 2006 and 2015, the top four HDD vendors So four more major HDD firms exited IBM, Maxtor and Fujitsu. They were saw no way forward other Even IBM - the HDD's inventor - decided to exit. their own HDD division struggled to gain they merged their HDD operations with ## Conclusion Today, there are three major HDD makers in the They continue to manage their market replaced by new items like Solid State ever be totally replaced, but the growth Looking at this crazy boom and bust in HDDs, it is interesting to look at how the allowed them to retain significant market By the mid-1990s, there were no more HDD assembly American jobs in R&amp;D, head manufacturing, and I do wonder what could have been different to Maybe an architectural decision here, or there.