Translator: Leonardo Silva Hello. My name is David Voas, and I'm going to be Now, I know some of you are really tempted but I should explain and I'm going to be talking about the Now, whether measured by belonging, or how important it's felt to be in life, religion is losing ground Society is being transformed, Well, at this point, you might be First, is it actually true? And even if religion is losing ground, I'm going to argue and, no, things won't change. Modernization has predictable one of which I call Well, it's not the case is that people reach and suddenly decide What happens is they enter adulthood being So there's a process where older people and they're replaced in the population And that's a process that's been happening in some cases, for a century or more. Let me take as the example And I'll use the example which has a question If you look at this graph, the horizontal axis at the bottom So we go from the beginning to late 20th century, on the right. And you can see those on the left-hand side, virtually everybody says And you come down to the right-hand side, and roughly two-thirds say they don't. So that's a remarkable shift to have happened in the course Well, this sort of story is found even in the United States, Things have started more recently there, the process is still but it is happening. I'll come back to the US in a moment. And it's similar whatever measure we take. So it's the same for attendance Well, you might be thinking, &quot;Okay, the old Christian people don't identify with them so much, but surely, they still believe in God, or at any rates, they're even if they're not religious.&quot; Well, here is the United States, and this shows who say they know God really exists again by year of birth - older people on the left, And you can see that in the older something of the order of three-quarters, say they know God really exists, and that falls to not for people born later in the 20th century. Or Canada, for example, where we have data of religious or indeed spiritual beliefs. And here again, we see from something like two-thirds saying that these beliefs and that drops down for the youngest adult generations. Well, as you look at those, whether I'm simply comparing with the effect of being young. Is it the case that people become Well, we have census and survey data decades, in fact - across the Western World now, and we can answer that question. And the answer is no. On average, people within across the adult-life course. So what we're seeing but permanent generation gaps. Lack of religion isn't just a stage So this idea that there's something that erodes religious commitments, that reduces the respect is known as the secularization thesis. And there are a couple of objections to the secularization thesis. One is the example of the United States, which is modern, And if it's an exception, then surely The other objection is that we're looking and that while those old, conventional there are new churches, Mormons and Pentecostals, for example - there's alternative spirituality like Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, that are gaining ground across the West. Well, as I mentioned a moment ago, even in the United States, in fact, it seems that decline has set in. We only just have the data now to notice, but it seems that it started And it's following the same pattern that we've observed elsewhere in the West. And while it is the case particularly immigration, that have brought people into the Western world, those effects aren't big enough So - so far so good, or so bad, depending Secularization is happening. But there's still a big question. You may be asking, &quot;Isn't it possible that the popularity even in the Western world?&quot; After all, faith promises benefits that are difficult or impossible It offers meaning, purpose, solace, ultimate justice, life after death, the prospect of being and so on. Isn't it the case, you might be wondering, that nothing is irreversible? There's a reluctance nowadays, I think, to believe that we're converging This is a notion that was popular but that's fallen out of favor. It reminds us now a bit where the highest form of civilization is represented by people And yet, modernization does have effects. We can look at, for example, which is calculated each year It's based on life expectancy, years of education, national income per capita. And on that score, Norway is currently at the top; Niger, in Africa, is at the bottom. And as you look down this list of all it's very apparent that the most highly developed countries and the least developed countries Now, there are some exceptions. There are the countries that produce oil, are off the trend line. They're rich, but religious. But in the mid 20th century, they were underdeveloped So it's certainly the case that religious decline comes very late but it does come, If we think about the very question about whether it's often objected And that's very true, but then, most of the world So I'm talking specifically that have gone furthest places in Europe, North America, a few in East Asia, The 140, 150 countries elsewhere It's not easy to specify and indeed, it would take to even try to sketch some of the factors that might connect modernizaton But to name just a few: prosperity brings choice and an unwillingness to defer secular and scientific worldviews communications and geographical mobility bring people into contact and physical and material security seem to reduce the need Now, whether any or perhaps it's clear that there's something that does cause problems for religion. Moreover, it's very difficult We do know of some places where religious involvement but those are typically places where or imposed a degree than the development So one thinks, for example, even Turkey perhaps - but when those regimes fell religion rebounded to something given the degree of modernization. So the secular transition is underway, but why should it be irreversible? I think the key reason is have great difficulty in acquiring one. And if you're wondering it might help in understanding this to think about a religion Now, I'm going to guess Apologies to those of you who are. You can think of a different religion. But here, as an example, And here are some scenes of Hindu worship. Now, some of you may decide that Hinduism but I suspect that for most of you, maybe even slightly scary. And I suggest that that's the position that a large proportion with respect to any religion. They weren't brought up going to church, They didn't grow up That's not to say Some of them will. Many will. Some will become Hare Krishna But most won't, and for most, in fact, You have to be raised with a religion Now, I'm not suggesting that religious or religious practice is inherently odd. On the contrary. What I want to argue is that it's a matter So in the past, in the West, most people had a religion, Most people had some sort Religious involvement was the norm, and it was supported by culture These days, the default Many people grow up with or religious identity. Religion has become indeed to the extent that people it's often in news stories about extremism And that's simply not conducive I'm not arguing that Westerners with a naturalistic worldview. On the contrary. A large proportion, at least half, a higher power perhaps. Another large, perhaps believe in some form of life after death. But for most people, it's not something it's not something that's very they have little interest So the secular transition is underway. Because it proceeds it works very slowly When it comes to human beings, but I hope that I've shown you there's no way back Thank you. (Applause)