Michael Krigsman: Welcome to CXOTalk and we are discussing agentic AI with agents Akkiraju, an entrepreneur and venture capitalist Praveen Akkiraju: I'm a managing director a growth-stage venture firm. We've been invested in over 800 companies. I spent many and product management teams. At Insight, I Francisco Bay Area. I specialize in developer Michael Krigsman: That term &quot;agentic&quot; What is agentic AI? Please give us a background AI has suddenly erupted in popularity recently. us to look at the current state of AI. As we are in a period of profound change. It almost forward in our capabilities with AI. we've had a model launched from OpenAI, the in reasoning. Google launched a new model, more importantly, 50% cheaper. We just had We are in a profound stage of rapid I started my career in the early phases of the technology platform shift because life essentially of evolution. We're in the early stages of There are lots of advancements in models We're also seeing significant advancement in how in continuing to advance the quality of AI. plants being restarted to support the required for AI. We're in that rapid stage of applications like agents, copilot, and assistants. agents, intelligent tasks, and intelligent Praveen Akkiraju: The first instantiation of projects, AutoGPT and BabyAGI, in March 2023. launched his open-source project BabyAGI with It was a project based on the idea, &quot;I've got automate them. Can I use generative AI to do it?&quot; and the focus was on how to automate doing automation for a long time. We've had RPA What was different about this dynamic nature--the ability for the agent the environments it works in. This From a purely technical perspective, agents can execute tasks autonomously. That's the In the market today, you see many agents. They demonstrating that the term has been widely in the early phases of this journey toward a Michael Krigsman: We're all very experienced companies sell as &quot;great customer experience.&quot; it's terrible. So how is this different from that? continuum. Chatbots were an early instantiation or even a data model, to respond to We've seen significant developments in the space AI model that can do work independently be a coding assistant or coding copilot. copilots. Claude 2 3.5 is one that I've feature called artifacts. If you want the ability to understand the specific steps and then have it execute them independently. enhances the ability of a human worker or execute tasks faster with a human in the loop. enough to autonomously take a task, execute those steps, and then give you the result. competent intern to a competent colleague. With an back to you and say, &quot;Hey, this is what I'm doing. you can trust them to execute a set of tasks, I hope that helps you understand the spectrum: I would say that we're in the early part of the figured out how to make them fully autonomous. can you elaborate on that? To some from traditional chatbots. We think there's Praveen Akkiraju: Let me break down what an agent see what's inside the box, the first aspect as a box where you type in your instructions. capability that understands the user's the model. Essentially, it determines The next step, once you've input your task and of an agent: the planning or reasoning function. and create a plan for how to execute it? you want to travel to San Francisco. In your mind, before. I need to figure out which date I want and so on. You create a set of steps and then your tickets, get an Uber to go to the airport, The aspect of an agent that makes it autonomous is it was so exciting to see the recently announced in advancing the capabilities of generative AI there yet, but it's a significant step forward. you're executing. You need to access tools and accessing the internet to get data. you might need to launch an API to search the web Francisco. Tool calling or API integration is Once you've understood the intent, planned the (whether it's static code or other models), you it through a reflection loop, which tests the This becomes more important in mission-critical output. You compare the actual output send it back to the agent for refinement. function. For example, let's say you're in HR; you else's salary. There might be a governance policy That's how I would break down an agent: user tool calling, integrations, a reflection loop, and If you think about that as the composition of parts that need to be composed. This is where as some of these are hard problems, while others and various aspects are an engineering Michael Krigsman: Subscribe to We have great shows coming up. The reasoning agents from other types of computer science Praveen Akkiraju: Absolutely. I would the barrier that generative AI needs to break If we spend a minute on the latest model this concept of chain-of-thought reasoning. If that's advocated is to give the model a chain of step of the process by asking questions What O1 did was take that prompting, and absorb it into the model itself. It takes a to execute because it's essentially thinking this concept of planning and reasoning. was self-correcting through reinforcement their models. It's similar to chain-of-thought about its output at every step and ensure it is All of these are ways for us to break barrier, which is the true unlock. interesting question on LinkedIn from Michelle she says, &quot;Can we call these AI agents Praveen Akkiraju: &quot;AI agents&quot; is an established Even Salesforce recently announced Einstein the term of 2024, just like copilot was the we expect from AI in a practical application. is this: she says, &quot;What percentage of back-office processes?&quot; She also says, &quot;It seems interaction tasks.&quot; So, two different questions. across the spectrum from consumer to enterprise. the promise of AI is essentially productivity By automating these back-office tasks, as To be clear, we're doing some of it has done a phenomenal job of taking manual, created a ton of value in the enterprise. the barrier of dynamism and adapt or figure out Automation is largely about integration. tell you, the first step is to get before starting the AI journey. the back end really involves is extracting data, that a human analyst typically looks at. If you're unlock a significant amount of value and gains. It's a technology question. He are the agentic AI layers all based on neural more traditional symbolic AI kinds of code?&quot; into the steps we talked about, there's the language model or a natural language processing text. It could be an image in the future. This is primarily built on a large language previous era of machine learning, many predictive patterns. Here, you're reproducing patterns. between what we knew as pre-generative AI. the tasks that execute could be an a predictive model, or a forecasting Many companies have deployed predictive, detection models are in production today at scale. what works. If you have static code or a set you reuse that. If you have a forecasting language model for a task that the agent has then you use a generative AI model. couple of these technology transitions. For me, and CXOs should view it as such. Use it where it learning, existing machine learning Michael Krigsman: So, your point is you use the tool or technology but the outcome that tool will get you where you need to go. principle we used to use: KISS (Keep It Simple, like a large language model doesn't mean carefully about the outcome and the use case. question from Arsalan Khan, and this is a social, He says, &quot;What is the ultimate goal of these train these agents so that Praveen Akkiraju: There's a spectrum here. Some of every productive knowledge worker's tasks. There was a time when opening a bank account in a register and keeping track of accounts. and effectively scaled the ability to open an I think there will be a category of jobs that are things, and involve background or back-office earlier). These jobs absolutely need to be elegant way with generative AI or AI agents. is that we will all have individual AI agents. and our agents might communicate with Those things make us more efficient; they don't I do think it's a fair question to ask because what this technology can truly do. On one end going to take our jobs and replace a bunch of repetitive tasks. If you're a customer support that job is probably going away. a financial analyst, or a marketing your productivity and the quality of your work. There's the notion of AGI (Artificial General happen when it arrives. Is it 1,000 or is it a few years away, as other Technology is a tool. Over the years, humans have throughout our entire existence. I have faith Michael Krigsman: There's no question that, as shifts in technology accompanied by social and I would be thinking about how to use these efficient because that's where the future lies. if you're a developer, all of us who've written or refactor something that you need to change for tasks; they slow you down as a developer. run debugging or a compliance program, here are the things that I found, here are the to rethink,&quot; imagine the productivity gains. use cases for large language models because probably produce 10 times more code if you're able to produce 10 times more code, We have access to the internet, things and so on. I think that's the way of the Michael Krigsman: On this exact topic, &quot;Won't these agents replace white-collar jobs that require some sort of analysis. He asks, Let me inject here that firms like Accenture retraining their consultants to coexist the issue of replacing white-collar jobs that Praveen Akkiraju: If you look at some of these but one actually announced that generative the past quarter. We see this too. Many of with consulting firms and system integrators and companies adopt these new technologies. is there value in doing a Google search or the financial statements of all or would you rather have generative AI do that I think the capabilities of AI, where to. What it can be five years in the future probably because the platform is changing so fast. offload your repetitive and non-value-add whether for a marketing campaign or a You have quantitative investing and high-speed analysts or investment professionals in the better data so that better decisions can be made. you use this tool to unlock new capabilities what I believe in. Again, as things We've seen enough technology cycles where I white-collar jobs. It will make white-collar jobs let's say, an early-stage legal analyst because it's less about going out there and doing and making judgments or finding solutions. on this same general topic from Lisbeth questions is this overall concern about particular on jobs. Lisbeth Shaw says, &quot;What are decision-making using agentic AI at scale?&quot; about AI agents is trust. In order for AI agents technical definition of an agent, What does trust mean? It can mean different correctly, not hallucinating or confidently giving As models and techniques progress (whether it's or chain-of-thought reasoning), you're going to these models more in terms of their output. important is whether it's an optimization whatever task is given to it, or are there some goes through the process of optimizing the task? large model provider has safety and responsibility started by one of the founders of OpenAI Government regulations are being actively and where responsibility lies. We are trying to cycles to AI. It's an active area of debate. thoughtful and trying to understand exactly how AI in the cycle before we know what it entails. aspect of any AI agent that gets deployed. it's a fundamental aspect. For you, as end-users should be a critical factor when making decisions. agents, you've spoken about some of how we create agents and maybe some of the Praveen Akkiraju: We think of agents Applications can be a particular set of workflow associated with that application. data. It could be an ERP (Enterprise Resource with extracting the data, formatting it, creating comparing contracts or initiating a quote-to-cash The way I think about an AI agent with some of the associated workflows absorbed application as an application plus the associated like extracting and comparing That's a broad overview of how we think of building an agent, the first step is the relevant data you have access to (either as accessible to an API so you can use that data Going back to the hierarchy, once you plan the one of those tasks could be, &quot;Go get this data decision.&quot; Or, &quot;Get a SKU (Stock Keeping Unit), get the customer's information, figure out the final price.&quot; That could be a particular task. using the logic associated with a and then providing the output. You think of these and the logic of what you're trying to execute. and that becomes your agent. things. In our portfolio, for example, we're There are companies like LangChain, which as a knowledge worker, build very simple agentic can help you take a complex application and break and one of the more popular projects out there. iPaaS (Integration Platform as a Service) applications and data into one platform and then on top of that, using agentic use cases. announced an agent for cybersecurity. One of the ton of data, and you're trying to sort through agents that are constantly running, evaluating you're trying to do, acting as an agent analyst. spectrum. Last week, Salesforce announced Einstein was the reasoning layer they've created. It'll be indeed solved reasoning, that'll be fantastic. I running on the Salesforce ecosystem. that go across their businesses, which are more MultiOn is an interesting one. Dev Garg, an like a personal assistant or personal agent. for the customer service side of things. I will caveat all of this by saying we're still in If you look at the technical definition we're not quite there yet. There's still There's also a significant amount of of trust that one of the audience members But we are well on our way to architecture in an enterprise would look like. Arsalan asks great questions. He says, &quot;Can you be collected to implement these agents?&quot; He also on how they came to their conclusions?&quot; That's really a separate, entire Praveen Akkiraju: Just a quick note on can show you what they have done in terms come to a particular decision, and what You have some of that already today in the or Anthropic's artifacts, which are great the model is taking to execute a task. important question. As I said earlier, the an agentic application is the data layer. The Most front-tier, large models today are trained all bet on more TikTok videos and blog What's becoming more important and actually more is domain-specific data. Each of you, depending construction, pharmaceuticals, industrial, and so rates, records of successful executions, and Thanks to the big data era over the past good job of collecting all of this data in a and assuming it's accessible through an that data in a couple of different ways. I've talked to CIOs who have said, &quot;This Llama 2 I'm fine-tuning it on a construction data set so what kind of timelines are involved, or how In some cases, people are using a closed model Effectively, RAG lets you avoid training and context so it gets you to the right decision the weights leaking back to the model provider. creating the data layer and ensuring like fine-tuning, RAG, and embeddings. increasingly larger context windows. Gemini allowing you to input a ton You harness the data and leverage it to particular use case. Depending on the or some of these other techniques to do so. but the core of it is the LLM, how that LLM is in the standard LLM stuff that we know and this broader enterprise application framework Is that a correct way to look at it? your next-generation application as an AI agent, workflows absorbed into one entity, that AI agent There could be multiple LLMs that are an LLM doing your user interface. You could be an LLM that's a domain-specific It could be a data retrieval task, or it could a regular, old-school machine learning That's why I said building an agent is more because AI is just one of the components. API integration, and glue code logic needed You may do that yourself, or you may go to a an orchestration framework like LangChain to build give it a set of skills and tools, logical way to break down a task. but Yohei Nakajima is coming up with BabyAGI and now he's providing tooling So, think of these as frameworks and data own AI agent from scratch or acquiring Michael Krigsman: I heard this story 25 years ago Praveen Akkiraju: AI is a tool. AI is a go way back, effectively executing a Your application itself, even a classic a back end. The notion of a full stack is to life. It's the same here. It's just that large language model or generative AI model. I love his passion and the thoughtfulness of his &quot;As a recovering enterprise business architect, folks report directly to the CEO?&quot; frameworks advance, I think we have an opportunity Certain things will remain and The data layer will be incredibly important, The ability to bring together this is an engineering problem more than an AI problem, depending on how you define that role, could have architecture with these new tools and concepts. stage of AI. Every enterprise, CIO, or enterprise trying to figure out how to take what better. We're on that curve of improvement, If you're an enterprise systems architect Get your feet wet and start looking at your figure out where an LLM would make sense. around your existing application to make it Michael Krigsman: Can you help technology evaluating these technologies, the hype around Praveen Akkiraju: There's a lot of excitement, happening as well. Marketing decks are quick as I said, hopefully, in our conversation sense of what an agent looks like and what It's okay that we're not withholding this concept everything is autonomous. It's a progression, and of what agentic frameworks will look like. I even from deploying the solutions we have today. that LLMs are non-deterministic models. We've all and it gives you an answer. If it gives you a different answer. If you prompt There's a lot of work and interesting and analysts need to do to figure out, &quot;How do I with its associated non-determinism, and There are various techniques for doing that: reasoning, and so on, to get to more accuracy. again, it's a very interesting and powerful tool. things that are still work in progress. to incorporate that, how to get more productivity, you to a modern, AI-enabled architecture. comment about building a deterministic Praveen Akkiraju: We have a history of using outcomes. Again, I was involved early in the that the internet is a statistically multiplexed, this on the internet right now, there's no defined You launch it at the internet, and it finds it's making decisions at every stage. which is we have this show going on right now on Just because the system is non-deterministic application or get a deterministic outcome. to its capabilities. As things get better, part of building with frontier technology today. Shaw: &quot;How do you ensure that agentic Praveen Akkiraju: There are many things we can do. all AI. There are deterministic machine learning about the governance and policies you want to wrap These guardrails that you can provide for output building agents. Today, policy governance is In the AI context, I think you're not just taking the user. In a consumer use case, yes, but in For example, I was asking one of the someone who's working in government policy in a policy@company.com,&quot; which was made up. &quot;That doesn't make sense. Are you sure there's then here's a website that you can go to, where As a consumer, you can afford to interact going back to the concept of deterministic trust-based decisions, it's important to have a through before it's presented, especially Michael Krigsman: I'm afraid we're out of managing director at the VC firm Insight taking the time to talk with us today. Michael Krigsman: Thank you for your questions, you go, subscribe to our newsletter! coming up. Subscribe to our YouTube and have a great day. We'll see you next time.