I want to know how I can really pierce through as awareness through the mind, through no matter how subtle it may be. a clear understanding of the nature of and it's not about asking oneself, 'What am I? precise question, which is, 'How do I know that And we must ask this question in relation to In this way, you will erase the your thoughts and from your feelings your mind and at the level of your a tree, or even a chair, ask yourself: object I'm seeing? Perception implies and therefore interaction implies non-separation. which I am separate. If there's a wall with no If there is a window, I interact perception always implies a absence of separation on all levels, not just on an philosophical level. Even if that which perceives is this of the universe, to which it belongs This is theory, but at every moment, when you 'Am I feeling separate? Am I believing to be What's the evidence? What makes me think Then the investigation is always ongoing, directly related to your experience. It's not in a continuous fashion. Only when you realize, you notice &quot;I feel separate&quot;. Only in whereas if I ask 'What am I, The other challenge I have is that when you use Consciousness', it feels like perceiving whether what I'm experiencing is just presence, through the mind? What is the correlation between Let's clarify the vocabulary. What I that is hearing these words right now. Because certainty that words are being heard, whatever there is &quot;consciousnessing&quot; going there is an element of reality right the reality which is perceiving, the element That's why I don't define it as 'mind', nor do or that it's limited, I don't know. I don't and that there is something real to it. Even my dream--it's Consciousness. Everything everything else was an illusion, but the dream is the same Consciousness I've never experienced another Consciousness more than one Consciousnesses? Such a claim isn't So why not be open to the possibility I understand this intellectually, and for separate Consciousnesses. But I feel an energetic contraction, like a You're telling &quot;energetically&quot;... If the level of thoughts but it's on the level of doesn't involve intellectual does it involve thoughts? the thought of separation, you can use reason the propensity to identify myself with whether it's resisting something unpleasant pleasant, I want more of this... What It's important, whenever you feel identified or whatever, when you to see if the sense of separation is or on the level of bodily sensations, or on the we experience thoughts, bodily sensations, what we hear, what we taste, whatever. All of The tendency is to say, 'Okay, I get it on level where it's a problem.' So, first make because then when I ask the question &quot;Is you say: &quot;Non!&quot; but if you You need clarity on the level of thought, the level of bodily sensations and levels continuously play ping-pong with each look at the bottom, bring clarity at the the ping-pong. It's like you are If you are trying to catch it here... woops! It's there. Then you go there... So, create a separation between here. In other words, on the level of concepts, can I be certain to be a separate be No. And the you go on the level What makes me feel that I Consciousness, the For instance, if I look at a tree in front, right? I'm not challenging that your body is here and the me feel I am here and not there? What makes me Because my experience is appear in the body. My experience is that the What makes me feel other, opposite to don't know where I am. If I don't know The wrong place is when I know where I am. If you feel, &quot;There is something that If you investigate, you will see that there's some this: a bodily sensation here&quot; or somewhere but when you look at it, when you you realize that it is simply one more which doesn't separate you from anything. It's important to investigate in you reach certainties. You need to revisit but then at some point it gets it gets clear. What gets clear is 'I don't That's the beauty of it. That's the threshold what I am. If I don't know where I am, if I Because who cares what am I? Who cares knowing what we are than to know what we a chocolate ice cream as a very young child, or mango ice-cream, remember that? right? It's better to have the ice cream without But when you say 'I am Consciousness', that another label. This concept, in turn, appears When you say, it is better to be in a place You said , you gave the example of babies come it can't be a half truth, so I am trying to you are a separate being. This place of &quot;I don't in-between for the following reason: no matter are we giving what we are the freedom to be the world, the circumstances will appear in you see. So that's why, that's something which replace a belief with another belief. It's because we need the audacity to live without To be what we are, no matter what it is. We this certainty, this certainty emerges and takes Otherwise, we live either in the concept of being and both are wrong because in Thank you. It is ignorance... We want ignorance. We want safety in a We seek safety in a concept. And Yes, that's exactly what my seeking validation for my experience. Is what I in ignorance? Someone validate this for me. Well, you have to give yourself that hear something about Consciousness and that's true,' or 'I hadn't thought that's true!.' That's when it's Thank you.