He had a boyish smile, a rebellious hairstyle, His genius extended beyond music, to wordplay While he excited and inspired teens, he frightened Nixon-era FBI. Who was this British phenom? Well, that would be the inimitable John Lennon. Early Life With bombs falling around the hospital, John midst of World War II. His mother Julia gave him the middle name at the time. His father, Alfred, was a merchant marine be for much of John's childhood. Lennon's childhood was unsettled, with an handle motherhood... After the age of four, Lennon didn't even his childless Uncle George and Aunt Mimi. The two were a stern, but loving influence Mimi did what she could to discourage Lennon's It was she who famously told him "The guitar's a living out of it." Lennon's mother was more supportive of his bought the guitar for him. Though Lennon didn't live with his mother, her house where the two would listen to Elvis and guitar. Julia was also a frequent visitor at her sister's with Mimi and chatting with her son. After one of these tranquil visits, tragedy As Julia crossed the street to head home one car. John was sixteen years old when his mother with him for the rest of his life... At the time Julia died, Lennon was already He was smart, no doubt about that, but his teachers. He created comics of teachers and fellow students and detention sheets from Quarry Bank High detentions in one day, with offenses over to sabotage, to "just no interest whatsoever." While he was goofing off in school, Lennon He was playing in a band called the Quarry would ultimately lead to the formation of On July 6th, 1957, the Quarry Men played the bandmates decided Lennon should be introduced And who was that friend? Well, you might have heard of him - that would That day, McCartney, who was two years John's and impressed him with a rendition of the The atmosphere of the day stuck with Paul, "At Woolton village fete I met him. I was a fat schoolboy and, as he leaned an We were twelve then, but, in spite of his teenage pals." It was only two weeks before Paul was asked Shortly thereafter, Paul introduced John and Harrison. It was 1958, and three of the four Beatles But music couldn't be John's only focus. Though he had failed his exams upon leaving pulled strings and persuaded the Liverpool teen who did show incredible promise in the Lennon started attending the Liverpool College He didn't fare much better at the art school he did meet his first wife Cynthia Powell. Lennon never had the right equipment for his tools. It was also up to Powell to help Lennon on anyway... For all the help she gave him, Lennon was In fact, he could be downright abusive, even was in sort of a blind rage for two years. I was either drunk or fighting. It had been the same with other girlfriends There was something the matter with me.&quot; The relationship lasted, though, and in 1962 child. In keeping with the expectations of the time, in Liverpool. Lennon's music career had already taken honeymoon so he could play a gig the night Cynthia gave birth to Julian Lennon in 1963, Liverpool, John didn't pay much attention In fact, his relationship with his son was Julian publicly and angrily spoke about as &quot;Dad could talk about peace and love out loud the people who supposedly meant the most to How can you talk about peace and love and adultery, divorce?" John was the only married Beatle, and the tried to keep this information about Lennon Girls wanted their pop stars to be single Beatles Years The Beatles' rise to fame began at the Cavern in Germany. Along with Lennon, McCartney, and Harrison, up the band's lineup for their infamous club. The boys, no more than 22, and George only on pills and alcohol during their stay. But the audiences loved them, especially Lennon's One night he was supposed to be onstage, but the two only broke up when the club's bouncer Instead of getting dressed to go onstage, only wearing underwear and a toilet seat around When the Beatles returned to Liverpool and the attention of a young record store owner Familiar with the group from their visits their performances, saw their potential, and He got them a record contract and was by their Epstein was gay, and homosexuality was still Over the years, rumors have persisted that stemming from a vacation the two took together was born. Lennon denied the rumors, saying: "I was on holiday with Brian Epstein in he and I were having a love affair. Well, it was almost a love affair, but not It was never consummated. But it was a pretty intense relationship." By early 1964, the Beatles were hitting the Then, on February 7, 1964, their plane touched in New York City. Crowds of teenagers greeted them, hanging When they made their way through the crowds American media to a dose of his classic wit. When a reporter asked why people loved the knew we'd form another group and be managers." Two days later, the lads from Liverpool made Show. As the studio audience screamed and 73 million five songs. During the show, each Beatles name appeared Lennon's name had an addendum, though - it Keeping Cynthia and Julia's existence quiet one of the most recognizable in the world. 1964 saw the release of both the movie and Beatles' foray into the film industry. Lennon would later appear in a satirical film Not to be constrained by only two artistic entitled "In His Own Write," which he Spaniard In The Works." As the sixties continued on, the Beatles stayed high profile meant Lennon's mouth could In 1966, he famously told a reporter that When the remark was published, it caused an So-called 'Beatle Burnings' were held and their parents burned albums, photos, and In 1967, the Beatles took rock n' roll to Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, a psychedelic figures and celebrities on its cover. Initially, Jesus was supposed to be among 1966 remarks he was removed from the array. One of the songs on Sgt. Pepper, Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds, has major words in the title create the acronym However, Lennon said that his inspiration his favorite works of literature, Alice in from one of Julian's childhood drawings During this time period, Lennon had begun due to his new relationship with artist Yoko He had met Ono at one of her gallery shows, of her handing him a card that said nothing Though Lennon was still married to Cynthia, recording an album called "Two Virgins" nude on the cover. Lennon and Cynthia did not officially divorce Ono and Lennon was well known, with Ono spending worked, and even lent her voice on the White In 1969, Lennon and Ono married in a ceremony famously chronicled in the song "The Ballad into Paris, honeymooning down by the Seine. Peter Brown called to say, you can make it Spain." While their wedding was a relatively isolated Lennon and Ono set up camp in a bed at the in bed fully clothed for a week. They repeated the stunt two weeks later in that they recorded "Give Peace A Chance," friends and followers. By this time, Lennon was fully dedicated to had started to move in their own directions. Ono's presence in the recording studio and and they had all also begun exploring different The disintegration of the world's most famous Lennon was the first to tell the others he 1969. But it was Paul McCartney who broke the news and the Beatles officially split on April Post-Beatle years Though he had left the Beatles behind, Lennon His first post-Beatles album was released primal scream therapy he had begun practicing experienced in his childhood. The song that perhaps most demonstrates the which includes the lyrics, "Mother, you you didn't want me, So I, I just gotta tell By the time Lennon released his next solo States, settling into the luxurious Dakota It was here that he wrote the most iconic The song and the album were huge hits, and song remains an international anthem of peace Lennon and Ono enjoyed living in New York having the counterculture icons in the midst In 1972, eighteen year olds would have the year olds listened to John Lennon when he the actions of the government. That made him a threat to Richard Nixon's Lennon's visa based on these fears. They threatened deportation, and not wanting stopped his involvement with countercultural continued, Lennon was forced to hire attorneys In 1976, only after the Nixon presidency fell received his green card and was safe to stay During the struggle to obtain his green card, with Ono. The two essentially separated for over a year, live with a former secretary, May Pang, with Lennon later referred to this period of his fueled by alcohol and drugs and marked by He once tried to strangle Pang, and got thrown Brothers. By Lennon's absence, Ono realized that she She ultimately came to blame society's pressures, a fine person. It was society that had become too much...I'm was intelligent enough to know this was the not because we didn't love each other but When the two reunited, Ono quickly became She gave birth to Sean Lennon on John's With the birth of Sean came a sea change in Where he had been an absent father to Julian, music and instead spending his time as a house Lennon also began spending time with Julian York and Lennon taught his first son guitar For five years, Lennon focused on domestic muse again. He began writing songs, recorded an album, with the release of Double Fantasy in the John Lennon was back. Death But his return was not to last. Two months after Double Fantasy was released, to work on new songs he had written. On their way to the studio, Lennon stopped David Chapman, a fan who was waiting outside On their return shortly before 11:00 PM, Chapman As Lennon and Ono walked by, Chapman pulled An hysterical Ono called for help, and the Lennon into the back of a cruiser, and drove But their efforts were fruitless, John Lennon December 8th, 1980. The United States heard the news via a Monday made it to the rest of the world. Crowds began to show up at the Dakota, singing memory. No funeral was held; instead Ono had his body Park. The location is now "Strawberry Fields," by legions of fans each year. John Lennon's public life was dedicated While his private life was quite a bit more that he holds a special place in the lives as well as the children and grandchildren his music and his legacy. A groundbreaking musician, an experimental beauty for the world. His legacy has lived on for decades after on long after we're all gone.