Today we start our 5 day winter expedition across Canada on The Canadian. There are from lamb to pork to beef to pasta, Enjoying our full dining experience. The journey experience the many faces of Canadian winter. Please enjoy the journey! Hello. I am here from the country of maple leaves and other stuff. It's cold. Today we are going to be riding Canada's most iconic train, Via Rail's "The Canadian" for 5 days. We will start our way from the capital of Toronto, and all the way to the other the pacific end of the country to Vancouver. The journey continues for 5 days, this is the rough schedule for our expedition. On Day 1, we will start from Toronto and enjoy our time on the train. On day 2, we wake up in the Canadian Shield, one of the oldest geological formations on Earth. On day 3, we'll be in the Prairies, known for its extreme winter conditions. On day 4, we will wake up in the Famous On Day 5, we will finally arrive in Vancouver. A 4,466 km (2,775 mi) 96-hour journey, An unfathomable journey for someone used to travel in Japan. The longest train journey in the continent of America. We have access to the train lounge. Via Rail Business lounge. btw, today I have a special guest with me. I am with my my grandparents 3rd child aka my father I booked the Sleeper plus twin Cabin. 5000CAD (US$3500) Or 500CAD/350USD per day/per person. It's a kind of expensive!!! All meal, breakfast, lunch, dinner is included. Meal reservations I got the meal time schedule I also checked in my bigger luggages I will not have access until the arrival destination. It is time to board. This being my second time on board We will be riding Train 1 from gate 17. The Canadian has arrived This train began operation back in 1954. The train is almost half as old as Canada itself. 70 years is a long time I can't even imagine myself in 70 years. 2024+70=2094... Wait a minute I'm probably dead. It's whopping 12 cars + 2 locomotives. The summer train composed of 23 cars so a shorter train And because we will be spending new years onboard, we will be celebrating its 70th anniversary. this is our car, Armherst Manor Car 0112. This longevity of service makes it a remarkable piece of Canadian heritage, not only because of its historical significance, but also for the continuous use of its original mid-century cars. It's like traveling through time, with passengers still able to enjoy the same design that people did in the 1950s. A unique place in the story of Canadian travel and engineering. This is my room. The Sleeper Plus Compartment B. There are 4 twin rooms, and 4 solo rooms inside each sleeper cabin car. I was called upon to the observatory room. Yes, Good old ribcage design. It's like the future imagined by people from the past. 9:55am Our 5 day train journey starts. Last time it was early summer. This time it is winter. I am hoping to see a new scenery with changing seasons. The Canadian National tower AKA the CN tower marks the beginning of the journey. Good bye CN tower. I was given Champagne, von voyage Champagne. Bon voyage. We are leaving behind the CN tower and Toronto RoomTourTime This is our lovely room. The door is so old that it's now has its own ringtone. The entrance can only be locked from the inside. it's a closet. There are 6 hangers. an unlockable safe. trash can. There's 2 sofas. It's a moving sofa. We can only recline this much. pocket. tissue. There are a sign plate and brochure. There are lots of information. Here we have the vanity corner. Here we have a sink. I guess this board has multiple purposes. Drinkable tap water. Why is the water system so agressive? help me. Amenities include Cups Great for drinking Ear plugs Soap lotion There are lots of switches here. lights attendant call button fan 2 outlets A storage area there is a seperate room for the toilet 2 sets of towels what the bath amenity kit Shampoo Body Soap towels There is a shower room at the very end of this car. And here is the shower room. As for the seat/room class... There is the Economy car, 500 CAD (Toronto-Vancouver) A great opportunity to break your back. The sleeper cars include 3 sleeper types. The sleeper plus twin sleeper. (Our roomtype) 5000~ CAD for 2 (Vancouver - Toronto) The sleeper plus closet edition. 1500~ CAD (Vancouver to Toronto) No outlets to enjoy the nature. And the sleeper plus solo sleeper. 2500~ CAD (Vancouver to Toronto) It has all the same features of the twin sleeper including the toilet I personally like this room the best Each sleeper cars include a A washroom. And a shower room with infinite water supplies. Let's continue to the rear of the train. And then, last is the prestige class. Prestige class 10,000~ CAD (Vancouver to Toronto) It comes with a private Enjoyed by people with And at rear car is the bar And this cool looking lounge, via rail calls The bullet lounge Look! a frozen lake. And there are scratches on the ice. I thought it was an urban legend but I think Canadian people do actually skate on frozen lakes. Look at that. There's a ramp. There's a skateboard park on ice. What in the Canada? what in the Canada? Even the powerlines are frozen. Is that what I think it is? Thank the beaver gods its a beaver dam. It's getting close to 14:30pm Time to head to the dining car for lunch. The table are shared rest in pepperoni. If you don't want to communicate you are destined to share an awkward meal There are 2 reserved seating times. I reserved my seating for the 2nd seat. Anyways let's just stare into the menu Pulled pork sandwich. Shrimp and scallops. Daily Pasta. Etc. We have soup. Bone apple tea. There's rice inside. I got the random pasta of the day. And melon. Wait what is this what the banana There is a filling inside the banana Kinda sus Nonetheless I did finish the plate Oh I even get dessert How lucky nut cake It was a carrot cake. Thanks for the food. My dinner will be from 8:30pm We head deeper into the Canadian wilderness. I thought Canada gets a lot of snow. What happened to the snow Sad Climate change moment. very beautiful though not going to lie I came back to the sleeper plus class to enjoy the activity. Beer tasting contest. Famous beer from Canada. Hmm Tastes like beer Tastes like beer Look at this. It's basically ink? It tastes like regret. Canadian Air in an hour The sun will set soon so let's make the bed Unlike the solo compartment a key is needed to lower the beds Double bed complete. There is quite a lot of height for the upper bed There is a pocket and a light Capricorn Quite chilly A smoke break Vaping is for the cool kids like me Cold Air flavoured vape I was breathing for too long that Oh no I'm going to be late for dinner Hurray I made it on time Beef tenderloin Trout Chicken Broccoli Broccoli stir fry what the heck Not this again silverware paradise start off, a patch of grass. Handpicked for the Canadian wilderness. BIG CUCUMBER I think its this fork. what a lovely dinner! munch munch on the vegetables Bone apple tea Here comes main dish. Beef tenderloin 1 Complimentary drinks for dinner, so I ordered a glass of white wine. Beef tenderloin I got the recommended medium rare. That's a nice looking broccoli. It's so small compared to last time. shrinkflation is real Pretty good so far Here comes a dessert. my dessert is here, muddy chocolate cake. oh my god its sweet Nonetheless I cleaned my plate. There will be a new years party later I guess I'll head there now What the heck is this There's fruit in a juice And cake why is my clock at 10pm Ahhhhhh 7,6,5. 4,3,2,1 Congratulations happy new year WOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOO Happy new years 2024 Probably 2025 by the time Happy new years I am in the end of the car. look at that. Canadian winter The train parts are freezing Ahh its cold Oh my its cozy inside the bed Good nighters There is a carpet of snow trailing along the track. Alright tomorrow is waiting for me. So I sleep. Day 2 Good morning for my first morning on The Canadian. There is snow. I repeat. There is snow. 8:45am. we've cross the time zone so. we gain an hour. Look at all that snow How is this train able to It's breakfast time. Todays menu looks like this. Trans-Continental breakfast, Chef's Omelette, sweet waffles, Vegan hash. free juice. I got the toasted bread. The trans-continental breakfast. Omelet. I forgot hashbrowns looked like this. Looks interesting. The melon was a rock so I decided to leave it alone. Thank you for the meal. It's the frozen lakes to clear skies. It looks like a very cozy morning. We are intersecting with the #2 Canadian from Vancouver. On their last leg to Toronto. wait a second this is not the Canadian. Passenger trains like The Canadian often experience delays due to the prioritization of freight trains on shared tracks. The train was delayed by 4 hours the last time I rode the train. Wish you all the best. #2 Canadian passengers. Sioux lookout A small town with a popluation of 5,838 people not sure why it stops at such a small town but but from what I've heard its the bigger towns between Winnipeg and Thunder Bay but even with the popluation, there is an airport. what the heck An airport for a population of no more than 6000 is crazy must be the norm for big countries like Canada The snow here is very light Goodbye Sioux Lookout Meanwhile at the diner car. Lunch Burger Tuna melt falafel pita quinoa salad Starting with the soup Some tomato based soup Yummers somone stop the flickering pleaseee I ordered the tuna melt. wait, why did I get the tuna melt oh what, everyone ordered the burgers, lol Stole a burger from my father Guys get the burger Another chocolate cake What a healthy option. Bone apple tea. This area gets about 8 hours of daylight at this time of the year the sun will set at around 4pm A sunset over a frozen lake. maple syrup, hockey, putin There's a person 4:30pm bingo. It's time for me to become a billionare. you guys must be the witness I can't win this stuff. It's rigged. It's rigged. noooo to be continuted... We've made it this far. Dinner time. Looks like we got nothing for the menu today. nevermind. pork, cod chicken or veggie lasagna mushroom soup. Pork tenderloin with a LOT of beans The brocolli was replaced with beans. My father shared me his fish. It's pretty good. it's dessert time. Thank you for the meal. 4 hours later. We have finally arrived to a city. It's an hour stop. Last time I was here, a passenger told me there was a market neighbouring the station. Let's head there. There's a market. A polar bear? It's not getting fed enough food. It's starting to look like a seal. 9:00pm Let's head back to the train. Where are the geese? Hey, what is that? There is something on the ground This video is not sponsored by DanActive. it is below freezing temp. Goodbye Winnipeg I guess this is good night. Good nighters. I overslept. We are actually around half way We are in the prairies. There is nothing out there. Oh look a frozen pond. What the heck is this? Time to shower Why is it so yellow? Let's see if I can fix the color. luckily the current temp isn't so bad -3c It's expected to reach -40c next week We've arrived in Saskatoon Refilling the train lunch Here is the menu. Ginger beef on rice. Shrimp and scallops. Pulled Turkey Wrap. Couscous salad. wait a second Didn't I eat this yesterday What the hecko is ginger beef. what part of this is ginger the colour? Hey this is pretty guuud 7/10 Apple crumble and ice cream 7/10 would probably taste better with a hot drink There are things to do on this train Here are some puzzles Let's see how long it will take Well Im done Its going to take billion years Dinner. Today's menu is... Prime Rib Beef. Sole Filet. Chicken. Tofu. pumpkin soup Bone apple tea. And here is the main dish. Heheheheh. Canadian AAA Prime beef. Prime AAA beef. what is this what the heck Strawberry Cake. With a leaf. Delicious. Thanks for the food Getting closer to a town Edmonton Tomorrow is our last full day. The Famous Canadian Rockies! Hoping for good weather! Good night! DAY 4 Good morning It's kinda dark right now we will soon arrive at Jasper but It's kinda dark right now lololololol welp welp Guys the darkness stole our view Boooo We've already made it to jasper We are early by about 2 hours Well time to eat The day starts off great We've arrived so early that Nothing is opened With cloudy skies Why are you doing this to me Canadian Why did we arrive so early. Nice looking mountains I've heard unfortunate things about this area has to do with the forest fire does the station still exist the trees you see here might ash right now This is the not so famous moose lake. Look at how much of the green jacket is being reflected on the window. It's a sight to behold. A deep Jade hue. very pretty. That right there is the mountain Everest of the rocky mountain range. Mount Robson. Super rare to see it without clouds. Its covered with clouds today. We can only be spotted 351 days a year. Very lucky moment. Look at that mountain. it's a sight to behold Brunch. The menu is as follows. Transcontinental. Chef's omelet. Chicken pot pie Pasta. Vegan stuff. Bon appetit. Pasta time ravioli ravioli give me the formuoli not sure what the bread is all about but here it is. With cheese and green stuff. pretty tasty with sweet tomato sauce Thanks for the food It's starting to snow. This is nice. time for my cozy tea time let's get some relax time Here is the famous viewing point of Pyramid falls. It's gone. The snow is making me sleepy, It might just be jetlag, but good night. Dinner This is the last dinner on The Canadian. Here is the menu. Lamb. Salmon. Chicken. Vegetarian meal. I got soup Stock chicken soup bread and here is the lamb Lamb chops Choppity chop chop. Looks good. I remember it tasting like lego that was out for too long. Great funky taste. tastes as expected I will miss you funky lego The cake our last cake Thank you for the food It's the Rocky Mountaineering Currently in hibernation. Kamloops, the gateway between Vancouver and the Rockies. It's getting cold so I'm going to go sleep. Alrighty time to sleep. Good night. DAY 5 Wait, is this Vancouver? An early arrival Funny prank by the via rail staff. Looks like we actually arrived. An early Breakfast. Starting from 6:00 am. Our last breakfast on the Canadian. Transcontinental. Scrambled eggers and some bacon Grated potato. and let's not forget the melon We can stay on the train until 8:00 am. 5 days on a train. We did it. 4412km and 96 hours later. Finally arrived in Vancouver. Clap clap clap clap clap clap. rain, rain, and rain. Raincouver in winter. I am still happy to be here. We have arrived at the hotel now. A beautiful city! the beautiful sky as well Thanks for watching have a nice dayyyy!