On May 24th, SpaceX officially announced fourth test flight of Starship. The to demonstrate the ability to return and this includes a controlled soft And if Ship 29 manages to survive the extreme then it will continue on to perform followed by a second soft vertical there was another unexpected detail casually a hot topic of discussion for Starship fans This time around, SpaceX has decided also known as the hot stage ring, burn as depicted in this animation The question on a lot of people's minds is, reusability, then why would SpaceX jettison the for an answer to this question, then you've come we're going to examine the most likely reason to determine whether or not this exact situation previous flight test. My name is Zack Golden, Hey everyone, welcome and thank you it. Why the heck would SpaceX ditch interstage? How does this not go against Well, according to the announcement, interstage following boostback is to reduce So, let's start off by looking at why this some other theories, including the plot Keep in mind, this is a speculative explanation, conclusions I'm presenting today. The short answer is increased, the amount of fuel required to as well. Of course, the opposite is also true, as payload, the more fuel a rocket will have to burn Starship has never launched with a payload. the booster or a ship are fully topped off with begins performing missions with a payload, we'll difference between launch and landing is that the so there is no need to adjust fuel levels for same. It's important to note that the booster tank at all during the landing burn. Instead, it the landing tank throughout this episode. There the massive downcomer with a sump filter on top it doesn't have the same limitations as be relevant during this discussion. I described in my most recent episode, so if you would designed to transition from the Ascent mode make sure to watch that after this. That episode everything you could possibly want to know For the purposes of this episode, what you tank is specifically designed to be completely an uninterrupted supply of propellant, you at the bottom of the tank. If the tank is only through the atmosphere, the fluid would have a After initiating the landing burn, the the turbopumps until the upward acceleration Unfortunately, by that point, it would already themselves or automatically trigger an early To prevent this from occurring, it's important for the landing tank to Once full, this is basically all the burn. Any residual liquid left over in the engines once the booster is swapped happens to run dry during the landing burn, then you can probably expect a During the Everyday Astronauts Elon mentioned that the booster will have At first take, that may sound like there should if necessary. But keep in mind that this 20 tons main oxygen tank, and the landing tank. Given Raptor engines, let's assume that there will tank and 15 tons of oxidizer split between To avoid damaging the 13 center engines, it's boostback as it is during the landing burn. tons of LOX left over in the main tank and then wondering, the values I went with here on the ratio of delta V required for the So we have 2.5 tons of extra liquid oxygen in mind, let's consider the fact that when they likely expected that the mass of and calculated the size of the tank they In other words, the tank should hold just to initiate a landing burn 5 kilometers above kilometers per hour down to 0 with 2.5 tons of these are not the exact numbers. I'm the limited information available to us now here's where the problem arises. Because this landing tank design was identical for prior to the first integrated flight test. Shout this. This is the production tracking diagram from Because of how far ahead they were into late to make changes to boosters 7 through The problem is that in the 13 months several important changes were made which resulted in a significant increase in First, SpaceX realized that they needed to the outer 20 raptors. This meant doubling boxes used to isolate the engine powerheads and prevent fuel leaks inside of the enclosures from onboard fire suppression system. This resulted in relatively small CO2 tanks for two massive tanks aero covers to be installed over them as well. manoeuvre, which meant incorporating an insanely the revised PEA report released prior to IFT-2 I'm actually going to round this up to 10 tons, reported before the first flight ready article structural supports that were added to the structural qualification testing of the test that occurred during the boost back burn on flight bottom of the liquid oxygen tank. Those of you remember the simulations created by Ryan Hanson experienced by Booster 9 after stage separation. Unfortunately, we have no idea what the new different variations of possible designs based on the sake of time, I'm not going to re-explain these simulations seem to prove that the only way liquid and keep as much on the bottom as possible section of the tank. As you can see, it actually baffle. For this to work, there must be enough to pass through without restricting flow to the been intended to help prevent ice from reaching on each of the liquid oxygen inlet valves, which Trapping the ice above and between the plates should help reduce the likelihood of which actually ended up still being an issue the holes could be made smaller but more Of course, it's also entirely possible that these shown here. Either way, we know they are very Finally, on B-11, which is the booster that SpaceX tripled the number of vertical stringers stringers stretching the entire length of the purpose of this is to increase the structural as you can tell, the Super Heavy booster Well, more like tons. In fact, you Again, we're totally guessing here, but for the the total increase in dry mass from booster With an original mass of 250, an additional As much as I would like to do the much additional fuel would be needed to I'm not an aerospace proposals engineer. many unknown variables that need to be Instead, we're going to drastically oversimplify more fuel in order to bring the booster this is probably not a direct 1 to 1 correlation. to carry in an additional 2.5 tons of locks, and total capacity, then this extra mass would not be definitely be pushing the boundaries. And there than desired. If this 2.5 tons of extra margin or maybe even less, which I think is more likely, the situation that SpaceX have found themselves the ideal solution would be to increase the size that design has already been locked in With that said, the only other alternative to safely land this thing. The only way to ring after stage separation. This should reduce or 10 tons. So let me know what y'all think. change for Flight 4? Without an official able to come up with. But I'm looking forward to Now, anytime we're getting heavy I always try to include some After discussing this theory with Jax from The tanks that have been spotted for boosters ones used on boosters 7 through 12. Well, this and can only mean one of two things. Option for now and continue ejecting the hot stage then it will probably be addressed on Super fuel tanks and most likely larger landing tanks they will soon reach a level of reliability to ditch the engine shielding entirely. unnecessary as well. That alone will eliminate And of course, option 2 is that this theory is entirely different going on here. If that's the Welcome to the plot twist. This alternate immediately after SpaceX revealed their plans In that post, I mentioned that I believed it was To be honest, some of the feedback I got was with the way I phrased that. It's true that related to a few rumors that have been floating if the landing tank theory is correct, then kept the hot stage ring attached during Flight mass would prevent them from perfectly simulating chopsticks, then why not take the necessary steps the most important goal right now is ability to reach a predetermined position and that would be required for the chopsticks to the sooner they will be able But one thing I didn't consider, which is a is that no matter what the current limitations the inner stage still attached. If not, they For that reason, it's important to gather guidance system and grid fins will perform with Not only will this hot stage ring shift the the external surface could significantly change it's descending through the atmosphere. So the of this in SpaceX's statement regarding Flight the hot stage ring was actually separated in my opinion, the answer is yes, but in order some shadows. Let's start off by analyzing the since that's really the only evidence available during the boostback burn, the first thing which is almost directly in line with the aft for trying to recreate the shadows in a 3D space. termination of the boostback burn, the booster the aft section so that it's pointing towards the one of the first identifiable shadows that we the camera. As the booster continues to rotate, lifting pin on the bottom left corner of the visible 6 minutes and 30 seconds into the flight. we can see a small shadow appear on the side recreation by Chameleon Circuit, we can easily the hot stage ring from the front, you can see surface of the interstage. Looking at it from bottom of the stringer. When we rotate back to the shadow from that same stringer is being projected we can confirm that at 6 minutes and 29 seconds still attached to the booster. For the next 21 can attempt to identify. But at the 6 minute and direction of the camera and we can see a diagonal to the space engineer who was the first person we can examine the significance of this shadow. at this time, we can recreate what this shadow attached to the booster. When we compare that the hot stage ring attached, you can see that resemble what we would expect to see if the if what we're seeing here is real, then the next is why would this happen? Was it intentional based on the mission procedure for flight 4, we immediately after the completion of the boostback seems to have disappeared more than three minutes sign that this was not intentional and likely way this could possibly happen would be a failure look at how these work. The current version of One set to mate the interstage with the booster, The clamping mechanism is surprisingly simple, flips out of the alignment housing into its locked tucked in against the inside edge of the booster's look like, as the design was changed after them again from this angle since they did that. I mean the ring watchers. Prior to the change with the latch to hold it in the locked position. To to pull down against the force of the spring. but with an electric actuator instead. This clamp ring. It's basically a thick plate welded to is lowered onto the top of the booster using the spring-loaded latch snaps into place. As I to believe that three of these clamps are all clearly works very well considering the fact that while performing multiple supersonic backflips the clamp on the interstage, there is an identical aft section of the ship. Both the lower receiving enclosed inside of boxes with protective covers be able to reach down through the alignment With that explanation out of the way, let's these clamps. During stage separation, there interstage as a result of the exhaust plumes from Second stage ignition is incredibly violent, and bomb inside of a partially confined space. It's damaged the protective cover and allowed the hot through the alignment housing. If at least two the hot staging event, it would be very difficult secured in position. It would likely be fine from the engines are helping to keep it pressed the booster re-orients itself for re-entry and atmosphere, the only forces keeping the interstage that single clamp. Returning to the in-flight computer is probably thinking to itself, &quot;Damn, that boostback burn.&quot; So our ability to stick the It's all good though. In the meantime, let's everything seems fine. Booster 10 is falling very stable trajectory. The grid fins are doing making very precise course corrections. At first shadow which gave us confirmation that the passes through the clearly visible boundary of the alto-cumulus clouds. It's important to note that with high wind speeds and significant levels of high upper atmospheric winds all the time with Unfortunately, this is likely when the aerodynamic the top of the booster, because the moment it says, &quot;Wait, what the f**k?&quot; and immediately but it has no idea what it is and begins making minutes and 51 seconds, we see the second shadow present, but at this time, it's too late because length of time during this 20 second window, of the interstage while it was still partially destabilize the booster before it finally ripped fins, you can see several massive over-corrections my opinion, it appears that it does eventually we can't say for sure, because moments later the water at a speed of 1100 km per hour. Had they the 13 gambling engines would have been able to a good chance Booster 10 would have made a full location it was intended to, but it probably If this situation occurred as described, then rethink the design of the clamp mechanism to interstage attached to the top of the booster. At protect them from becoming damaged by the violent it's probably best to completely eliminate to ensure that SpaceX is able to successfully flight test. Doing so will allow them to move on the chopsticks as soon as possible. At the occurred when it did instead of during a future who knows what damage could occur if the hot stage Don't get me wrong, being able to eventually certainly important. That's the only way they determine whether or not it's been damaged they can improve the design based on what they to achieve 95% reusability and then worry about you all that everything said in this episode is be taken for effect. Without official confirmation knows, maybe we'll get lucky and Elon will decide this episode. Either way, I want to say good flight. It's incredibly awesome having front process as closely as we do. This level of access and we can't thank you enough for giving us If you're new to the channel and found analysis, then please consider subscribing if episodes and various stages of completion that I'm If you would like to further support what join as a member of the channel or become a I want to give a huge shout out to The Space pretty much enabled this episode to happen. Make you can find a link for that in the description Ryan Hanson Space, and Andy, the creator of contributions to this investigation. Of course, and the team of CSI Starbase agents in our as always. Last but not least, thanks to creators whose footage was used in today's links to all of their various platforms in the Until the next Deep Dive investigation,