In light of Old School Runescape's 11th that went over and celebrated the deep and One that has a fractured timeline, in the story, while varying a bit in the more modern The stories and fine details are scattered everywhere, but let's organise it, shall we? Old School Runescape has a rich and vibrant and even dialogue with some NPC's. There's a plethora of lore hidden beneath on a journey through history - through the that have shaped Gielinor through time. So get a drink, maybe even a snack and whack get into the video. This information will be a mix between old periods. I'm aware they're separate games and eventually lore into what was in Gielinor before Guthix For the sake of consistency, this video will to form the basis of the history, with me context and to expand on some points - this runscape, as this is what we can call the us, the players, show up in the world. The fifth age is where the timeline diverges timeline' in a way. is the first era of history within gielinor. According to Reldo, the first age lasted roughly The first age ended around 8000 years ago, recorded history - when the gods descened and shaped the fabric of matter itself. With druids having a strong belief that it it from a blank plane into a lush and vibrant It's commonly believed that Guthix brought gielinor through the world gate, an artifact to commune and enter different areas. The gate was used to bring through humans, sheep and countless more creatures - through through to Gielnor and brought elves from invited by Guthix. They settled Tirannwn and built Gielnor's The world gate was sealed soon after, with power directly - this artifact is mentioned in the Prifddinas' history book, but apart The middle of the first age can bookmarked deep underground to have the heaviest sleep Towards the end of the first age is when the Armadyl, Bandos, etc. You might be wondering why I don't mention Zaros' arrival next to a small village, marked the beginning of the second age. Just before we finish off about the first in the Book of Folklore to mention about the This all stems around the existence of an The belief is that as long as elder-dragons and the extinction of them would result in me. It's possible that by elder-dragons, it annihilated, but they are believed to be extinct would tie in with the world's existence, This theory is not widely known, and even it was created to cast doubt on the idea of Buy anyway, that's enough about conspiracies The second age ; The Ancient period, or otherwise This age lasted roughly 1780 years, in which many of them introducing their own races. Some believe there may have been more than these gods would either ally themselves with during the god wars. This age can easily be seen as one of the beginnings of many feuds of gods and their one another. Many of these gods were mortal within their artifacts from the elder gods, thus letting As mentioned in the previous chapter, the establishing his empire, annexing territories I'll go into the Zarosian empire shortly. I'll link a video here about the rise and Saradomin arrived on the island of Entrana He also began to conquer the land but began world before him. His initial mission, to some belief, was to he wanted Gielinor to himself. Saradomin's biggest settlement during this being inhabited by Icyene and humans. Armadyl arrived and brought avianese. It's rumoured that he ruled the skies of during this age though little is actually A group of humans called Ikovians came to into the present day guardians of armadyl his staff to them. Bandos also arrived once he learned of Gielinor, He introduced large numbers of his followers planes - eventually gaining a small human He revelled in bloodshed as his armies fought Tuemeken and Elidinis arrive, where they meet Together they create Itchlarin and Amascut.. They and their 2 children made up the major deities aswell. Together they create the Kharidian/Menaphite Kharidian Desert - though back then it was and then we come to the empty lord. Zaros created one of, if not the mightest I've actually got a whole video about the that, but I'm gonna gloss over it quickly Before Zaros arrived on Gielinor, he was created alongside his companion, Seren. As Seren is known as the goddess of light, of darkness. Over time he began to resent their creator's from her - eventually fleeing while she slept. Despite him inviting Seren, she denied him, Zaros left Freneskae and began to wander the where he encounters Vampyres. They knew him as the stranger from afar and transforming them from tribilistic animal An unknown time later is when Zaros arrived of several centuries - stretching more land Zaros ruled with mighty force, aiming to put The capital of this empire was Senntisten, into once of the most advanced settlements to some extent - and it also served as the to the god. Other fortresses and cities rose throughout Though Zaros wanted more, so he began a campaign starting the Khardian-Zarosian war. There were a series of major battles in Northern border skirmishes that broke out due to the empire. To try and hold back Zaros and his forces, their people powerful weapons which ultimately slowly encroaching on the land. Icthlarin. The menaphite god of the dead left Gielinor and eventually arrived to Freneskae, Zaros' He managed to convince the Mahjarrat to swear armies. With their agreement, he allowed them to come Stern Judges. Over the course of a few years, Icthlarin back Zaros - though once Osmumtent became on the advice of Sliske. This proved to be the downfall of the Kharidian pushing back and in a desperate last stand, magical blast of fire - annihilating armies areas. This is what turned the once lush and vibrant know it as. This betrayal leads Amascut to lose her mind Through this, Zaros retrated - his forces another potential loss so his forces left To recap really quickly, this is how the Zarosian You could say it was the peak of the empire. It consisted of Forinthry, or the Wildy, Northern The gods and by extension their empires make by Zaros, then an alliance of Gods will declare tensions rising over time. After two Milennia of being on Gielinor, seeds minds - some beginning to grow dissatisfied. The most notable was Zamorak the Scourge, Zamorak approached some of his kin and convinced Zaros, eventually this turned into a full Zamorak teamed up with the Mahjarrat Hazeel Thammaron, the human general Viggora and the truly defeat Zaros, they needed an elder artefact of Armadyl. The Staff of Armadyl, as mentioned before, to be one of the most powerful items to ever Nearing the end of the 2nd age it was stolen he stumbled upon it inside the abandoned temple He took the staff to deliver to Saradomin, Deciding to sell it, he gave it to a messenger a buyer, and would you look at that - he just in the staff - eventually getting his hands Zamorak employed lots of deception and slowly back, and eventually Zamorak and his allies warplans. The following is an account of General Viggora While we distracted the Empty Lord with our busy, Lord Zamorak outflanked him, unsheathed [...] The Empty Lord turned away from our Zamorak instead. Seeing this, we all fought with extra vigour, lord alone, but we were outnumbered by many not reach him to assist him. [...] The Empty Lord was a powerful god, stronger possibly even as strong as Guthix is, and all the same, with all of the strength and but to see him fight, you would not think He was war itself! Flurry after flurry of blows he rained upon shook and quivered with their power, but the Even with the weapon of a god embedded in our victory seemed less and less certain... Even with the staff of Armadyl sticking from overpowered him, lifting Zamorak up into the kicked - but in this vital moment, he lost imapling Zamorak with the other end of the By pure chance, this means that a great portion Zamorak, ascending him to god hood. As zaros faded he abandoned his body in a his spirit leaving and his body beginning On the other hand, Zamorak became more real his mind to the universe but just exactly godhood. As Zaros left, he uttered a curse, that anyone never find peace in death and would eternally only worked on the humans that had helped. The zarosian empire began to crumble, with push back against the rising tide. What exactly marked the end of the second Well, there's great debate - some saying subsequent escape into the great unknown. Others say it came to an end when other gods Zamorak from Gielinor. What is known for certainty is that Zamorak and declared war on all the other gods, officially history, otherwise known as the God Wars. Zamorak returning to Gielinor with an army god he could, this war was ended after thousands of the third age. This age is the pinnacle of history and shaped Early on in this age is when the Zarosian was decimated by the combined forces of Zamorak being torn down one by one, trying to get Nex led a Zarosian army in the Battle for within the Ancient Prison by Saradominists. Azzanadra ended up being imprisoned within and Ullek were destroyed by Thammaron and city of Senntisten fell some time before the to dust, with only ruins and remanents of The gnomes and dwarves went into hiding during within the mountain, the dwarves became prosperous Even the elves retreated within their city The most important and titular event was the Yes, Zaros had left and disappeared, and Zamorak many battles that would shape the world. Lord Drakan conquered the saradominist kingdom areas and founding the land of Morytania, The battle ended when the queen of Hallowvale her husband, which of course, didn't happen. He was captured and turned into a vampyre, acts being to murder his daughter and attempty his innate Icyene abilities - though this As the Queen Efaritay was captured, any and tide of battle turned and Phosani, the Justiciar Saradomin abandoned them - quickly swearing to the surviving Hallowvale peasentry. With Hallowvale in ruins, Drakan began rebuilding enslaving the remaining humans to reinstate enough sustintence to last them. The Queen's castle was later renamed to Eventually, Saradominists tried to lead a empowered Barrows Brothers, who gained their one who made his kin abandon the kharidian Darkmeyer. The brothers seemed unstoppable, that was and Sliske took their powers away: letting his walls with little effort. Those fleeing the war torn lands and kingdoms Kourend - establishing a mighty kingdom, which Another notable mention is that Skotizo had with his sister Zalcano being punished to by the elves deep below Prifddinas. After Senittsten fell, Zamorakian forces controlled founding the city of Saranthium - a magnificent influence by Saradomin, with his symbols being A major creation during this age was the godsword, Armadyl AND Bandos to create a weapon to use unit was assaulted by zamorakians, eventually Warss Dungeon. Even Nex was momentarily released, only to four factions. Something worth mentioning is the sea slugs. Mother Mallum allegedly attempted to conquer temple knights which were formed during the now Ardounge - truly, the world was on the enveloped it. Through this long and bloody campaign, Zamorak and in a last desperate attempt to maintain Jas to incinerate the land, scarring it and as the Wilderness. The god wars were bloody. Deadly. It caused untold chaos and saw many races out all aviansie, Icyene, centaurs, light more - this untold destruction scarred the Millions died , cities were founded and razed There was so much destruction that followers to awaken the sleeping god god. It was during this time that a follower of stopping the fighting in time, until much Guthix awaken from his slumber and retaliated ending the god wars once and for all. He banished the most powerful gods and established The edicts essentially forbid gods to return to maintain a balance between the two major If either were to upset the balance, then Gielinor - remaking it anew. Due to these edicts, rather than leave and into crystal shards that surrounded Priffdinnas, It is during this time that Guthix then travelled had been caused by the gods, and through this of guthix before he went to slumber deep beneath again. It's here the third age ended, with the returning to sleep. It's here that the surviving races of the and rebuild after the devastation, leading The Fourth age is known as the age of mortals, Wars coming out of hiding and rebuilding, flourish and become kingdoms. Lasting roughly 1950 years, This age also down to modern times, which we'll cover The age of mortals has a lot more records timeline of events, but before we get into the races decided to do once the gods were Aside from the city of Saranthium, a few Kharidian De Rott, most of the humans at the start of Though as the unwavering human will has shown tribes to towns, to cities, to kingdoms who the end of the fourth age. Goblins were lost, to say the least. Their big high war god, you know, the guy like all the other gods, so they had no leader. What else could they do, but fight everyone, They even began fighting their own past allies, seeing them get kicked out of the feldip hills. Being driven north , they then turned their get a break, can then?), but the mighty gnome torstoises that caused the goblins to flee This eventually led to the battle of plain Gnomes returned to the surface after going their settlements destroyed and razed to rubble hostile than ever before. Barbaric human tribes would hunt them, so - but not before planting the Grand tree, to thrive away from prying eyes and bloody Dwarves remained under the ground during the Keldagrim was built. Though the dwarves also lost their magical cast superheat item. During the rule of King Alvis, the Consortium organisation of Keldagrim, and once King Alvis Due to the loss of their powers, they had leading to a prosperous and titanic kingdom. Towards the ends of the fourth age is where the surface, after thousands of years of silence. Though it's worth mentioning that Imcando some contact with the surface world. Elves emerged to some capacity, moving eastward dotted around, and alliances made with humans Clan Cadarn under the leadership of Baxtorian Tzhaar, who lived in isolation since the first surface civilizations. Vampyres were under the rule of Lord Drakan, controlled the land of Morytania, enslaving biggest human civilization at the time. These humans had to pay blood tithes, and but was defeated when the River Salve was Now that we have a rough basis of what the let's take a look at more specific events. Early within the fourth age, the dragonkin of attacks by the Necrosyrtes, who were a Gielinor. This was all down due to the abuse of the their rage to boil as they were cursed to was to attack anyone in sight. Due to most dragonkin being largely resistant left unchecked for many years - that was until Though all this did was inspire a Dragonkin where one of the first of these experiments of Elvarg. They then moved to Ungael and began more experiments, Vorkath, with Zorgoth seeing these as failures As the operation gained traction and became and he fled Ungael as humans discovered his Other major events involve the permanent settlements Karamja being created, as well as the Kingdoms created. Avarrocka is an interesting one to mention baby abandoned in that same location, and they began to lay their roots. Allegedly this baby grew up to be Arrav, a to save varrock. This eventually led the kingdom of AVarrock first human nation of Misthalin. Around the middle part of the fourth age the eleven goblin tribes. The battle lasted a long time, and they nearly war, but it was at this time that a goblin them to stop fighting eachother and gave them commander to lead them to their future. All the remaining generals believed this vision at the site of the battle which sunk into civil war took place. This was an internal conflict within the Dorgeshuun within the tribe. Initially Dorgesh-Kaan was ruled over by generals, the generals would take power by defeating now had been advised that the people felt they were no longer an army. Through democracy, the vote turned the tribe to give up power - with the republic having having magical artefacts and better warriors. Over time General Bonehelm was driven out - and in a deadly final battle, when he was the footsteps of his soldiers had caused the them all, leading to the end of the civil Following this, Dorgesh-Kaan quickly became Bandos' bloodthristy view of the world. Around this time aswell, the kingdom of Asgarnia converted to a monarchy. Many dark creatures from Morytania began to vampyres, though seven certain priestly warriors making it impossible for creatures of Zamorak Towards the end of the middle of this age, his power over the kingdom and remained in I'll briefly cover what happend with Xeric, but I have a video if you want more info After the death of King Shayzien VII, it was Dark Altar and moved his spirit from his mortal to gain massive power and emerge victorious As he reigned Great Kourend for a hundred immortality before The Ascent of Arceuus. At this point, he began to refer to himself With his newfound power, Xeric proceeded to Great Kourend as his own. However, while he was very powerful, he couldn't he rely on human informants. With the lizardmen at his disposal, who were question, the people were powerless to resist Many fled from Great Kourend, seeking refuge Lowlands. Here, the refugees founded the kingdom of It is believed that the Tasakaal had granted reasons unknown, and misused it; because of people that would come after, the Tasakaal whenever his name is spoken to them, instead The lizardmen served as Xeric's primary guards They would sweep the cities and farms, kidnapping At the height of his reign in the 43rd decade, Xeric) attempted to storm the Tower of Magic the loss of two hundred members. Only a few years later murder a child whilst working his farm. Outraged, he slaughtered the lizardman, with Urging the people to fight back, the people were outnumbered and driven beyond the kingdom During the revolt, the temple surrounding Xeric's power and forcing him into exile.[ As the tale of Kourend is left best for another we can leave on the note that Byrne the farmer In the late fourth age, the great migration officially take up their lands in the form Travellers came upon the river salve and disregarded that would become Canifis, Port Phasmatys the vampyres would take dominion over these This is also the period in which Necrovarus and liberate the people of the town by making though the side effect was a little bit... undesired. Everyone died. And become ghosts. So... yeah... The lovely town of Lumbridge was also formed and the church of Saradomin was erectedin Al Kharid was also formed in the desert. The war of the five houses also broke out. Despite the name, Arceuus never participated During the 120th decade, King Agata IV was presumably due to his mismanagement of the With no one next in line to the throne, an House formed to murder Lord Shayzien, which fight one another. Meanwhile, the Hosidius House began to mobilise begun to reinforce the defences of Arceuus, Though the exact casualties are not known, compared to the other Houses. In addition, structures that were known to a castle belonging to the Shayzien House, House. While the war was seen by some as a petty the war ultimately lasted for twenty years. After the war ended, King Kharedst I took Before we talk of the end of the fourth age, The brave adventurer who became a undying Mahjarrat zemouregal, sacrificing himself his life. The ultimate battle that took place between going up against a giant with strength that Knowing that his time was coming to an end, and faced Zemourgal head on - biding time on the rest of the Mahjarrat's army. Though as tendrils of oily smoke crept from twisted and constricted him until he lay still, at least, over Arrav. When he looked up, he saw the grandson of power to destroy the remnants of the mahjarrat's Standing alone, Zemourgeal fled as he was with him, reanimating it and forcing him to Humans began to dominate the landscape as allowing for humans to use new magics thought were like back then? Eventually, the Fremenniks abandoned their of Rellekka in the Fourth Age. While this improved the life of most Fremenniks, These people left the Fremenniks, grouping The two tribes were somewhat bitter towards Many years later, the Fremenniks discovered This caused a great struggle within the tribe; magics of the essence for defence. Others believed that the rocks were not meant them if they used it. The tension grew until many more Fremenniks form the Moon Clan. Taking advantage of the Fremenniks' temporary Rellekka, taking with them the rock, which The two tribes avoided contact from that point Though the specific dates are unknown, two events worth mentioning is Avarocka being renamed to Varrock and the establishment of the Black Knights that would cause a never ending conflict with the white knights. And here we are, the end of the fourth age, so let's not waste any time. The age of Humans and the current age of Runescape. Humanity has made lots of progress in all and economical strides, and I'm not just GE. The most recent history and lore that we have, the lands that we travel and quest across. And where did it begin? Well, as you heard that humans discovered the wise old man states that the fifth age Humans discovering magic had of course, led leading to the construction of the first Wizard's Through this creation, the founding of the initially welcomed all researching wizards, forbade Zamorakian wizards from certain research were, they were too dangerous. But archmage sedridor thinks it's because to themselves. Soon after the Rise of Kandarin happens, which led by the carnillean family decided to remove as ardounge, eventually creating kandarin It's during this time that the Mahjarrat the Carnillean family which further helped house of the kingdom. Moving back towards Misthalin, it was also attempted to destroy Varrock but was valiantly legendary blade Silverlight to banish the Unfortunately Wally is mostly forgotten about saved a lot of lives. Humans using magic - big plus, right? We love a bit of magic, but unfortunately Barbarians of the north felt that the creation have humans meddling in forces beyond our try and stop it. Launch a brutal campaign across Kandarin and This brutal campaign destroyed not only the 60th year of the fifth age, the Barbarians only a handful alive scattered around Asgarnia. Their home for a while was in Camdozaal, where and even helped Arrav create a shield that age. Though it was their use of magic inside their which forced the fremennik horde to turn their Though speaking to them, it's clear they're kind beneath the Avium Savannah in Varlamore lead. In the 70th year, the Wizard's tower was that were seen as irreplaceable. This allegedly happened from Zamorakian mages council, and only the basement survived. Because the destruction was blamed on Zamorakian of wizards once the tower was rebuilt, and - though a mage of zamorak thoerieses that the destruction. That they stole teleportation research from due to a severe lack of understanding, went Though through this, there was public outrage discovery of the Dagon'Hai's plans in Who are the Dagon'Hai and what do they want? Well, they're a secretive zamorakian organistation They had flourished early in the fifth age frowned upon as much - and so they didn't but the priests of saradomin weren't fond them. Saradominist pirests were found dead in the and tormented. Through the burning of the wizard's tower, heads - and their numbers were greatly decimated, forms of arcane magic. They wanted revenge, and they weren't planning to an early end - as a young guardsman had performing some type of sacrificial ritual. Sounding the alarm, the dagon'hai dispersed a chance to live, and they were slain. They currently do exist on, though the forces more hiding in similar tunnels to the tunnel During the year 132, King Arthur and the knights leaving england behind to grace us with their Surprisingly it was during this age that King to aid Arthur. He spoke to Lord Sinclar, who was an important the mansion to arthur whilst moving slightly this was something his children would never Only four years later, King Ulthas is killed While his sons can not agree who would be With King Ulthas' eventual death, his son his father's decision to give the knights During the year 139 was when Crandor was a members of this civilisation being part of Although, as fate would will it, one of these Elvarg during an expedition inside the volcano that. Awakening, she devastates the island and burns refugees who decided to make camp in Rimmington. The only survivors were three wizards: Thalzar, They split up the map of Crandor to ensure Sometime between the year 150-159, the last IV would die. The day before Rose's 11th birthday, she and where he purchased an ornate flask and an The locket was given to Rose as a present, Unbeknownst to the King, the flask he purchased his mind became corrupted. to be Xamphur, reached out to David Andrews, An expert on old curses, the mage claimed mind beyond saving, and gave a poison for could not be saved, the King's advisors proceeded too young to take the throne at the time of Kourend Council in order to rule the kingdom The Siege of Varrock is an unofficial name Lucien in year 154 of the Fifth Age. The battle saw the relatively brief siege The Varrockian military managed to repel the the use of magic made possible by the nation's The siege was waged in much the same way the 1,000 years before. Lucien led an army of the undead harvested unlike Zemouregal he also was aided by at Solus Dellagar, who, despite playing only become one of the world's most powerful battle Little else is known about the battle. Display case 26 in the Varrock Museum's second it does not make reference to Lucien by name, the battle to some extent. For many years the Mountain Tribe wandered, never remaining in one area for long. Approximately fourteen years ago, however, their leader, Hamal the Chieftain, ordered the tribe to stop moving. His daughter had mysteriously disappeared, and so the tribe remained in one area, searching fruitlessly for her. And that finally brings us to year 169. The year that is seen as the current of Runescape, our first steps from Tutorial island into And let me tell you... If I spoke about what we get up to, this video From our first quest of helping a chef bake of deities, delving into ancient tombs and the stories are countless... well, I guess you can count them 159 exactly, as of the making of this video. But, depending when you watch this video, Rather than have all these questlines and lore series is about! A more in-depth look of the races of Gielinor, within the questlines that we have, and of With Varlamore coming out and Sailing being to be a lot of lore that will be grown and the journeys more perilous, and I still haven't mining I can do. I hope you guys enjoyed this video and thank Though I didn't play Old school runescape entirely when Evolution of Combat happened almost consumed my interested. We've had 11 years and things are going many more. But for now, thanks for watching, and see