In the city of El Marrow, a major hub death is only the beginning of your journey. It's a long and arduous trek to the ninth being shipped in a coffin, wouldn't it be nice That's where the Department of Death comes in, the through the afterlife that all the good will you Yes, it's the classic, point-and-click Tim Schafer. A creatively dark-humored romp filled with whimsical lands, lovable characters, So find a comfy spot, pour yourself for those gold flakes though-and let's click adventures games ever made, Grim Fandango. Grim Fandango is a third-person, point-and-click LucasArts and released on October European releases followed the next month. The game was remastered and rereleased on For this video, I'm playing because it plays nicely with modern hardware Grim Fandango was written, directed, started his career as a co-writer, programmer, and After pulling the same duties on the sequel, While the Monkey Island games and classics by today's standards, they After their release, LucasArts approached ideas to help revitalize the adventure game Schafer reportedly submitted saw the light of day at LucasArts: which became known internally as Tim's The biker gang proposal was accepted LucasArts' first blockbuster adventure The overwhelming success of to go ahead with his other pitch, While Full Throttle was much loved, one of the so Schafer and the team set out to which needed to be supported by a This of course ballooned production time and And even with this prolonged schedule, with Schafer saying that it would to fully implement everything they had planned. Now, by 1990s standards, with game blistering pace, 3 years was already an eternity. By the time Grim Fandango the adventure game genre was pretty much While the game was well received it quickly disappeared from the sales charts. Still, Grim Fandango had a passionate its greatness. Then of course, we got In Grim Fandango, you play as Manuel Calavera, In the world of Grim Fandango, instead of reapers sell them transport to the hereafter. So they're basically travel agents, working for the bureaucratic Department of Death. It's So Manny is a travel-agent. Each deceased person's soul qualifies for depending on their actions in life. If lot of credit at their disposal and can afford If they were bad, well... Manny never seems to get any premium clients. qualify for anything better than being stuffed Problem is to work off their own sins during premium packages to afford their own ticket So Manny is stuck in this dead end position, threatening to fire him, which means he'll have He's got a sneaking suspicion there's a plot Domino Hurley, and his boss at the DOD, Don Copal. Little does Manny know, the plot goes far beyond Grim Fandango begins with a cutscene showing off the typical clients Manny has Let's take a look at your records. Well, the bad news is the train but I still got a couple of Ah ha, yes, that's the ticket: The Excelsior Line! Yes, she's a beauty. That compass in Oh, you're going to have a Why don't you? You could give me a lift. Oh, I can't leave here until I've worked Community service, eh? Well, I guess Oh, I'll be leaving here soon no commission, lowlife cases like yours, menso. The dialogue here immediately sets up and the droll workaday existence of life or you Maybe it's because I'm a child of the 90s or maybe humor in this game. Even the stuff that doesn't A message through the pneumatic on a mass poisoning that happened in There are too many dead to so it's first come first served. Of course, Manny's received the memo late and everyone Even though he's in a rush to get the scene around the DOD offices. Have a chat with the We also learn some details about the world it's Dia de los Muertos, the Day of the In the real life Day of the Dead members are remembered and some believe that So it makes sense that employees would during the holiday. It's a clever little detail. Eva needs to work because the boss is anyone in the living world to visit. You but she's tight-lipped about it, and so is Manny. In fact, we never learn how any of the characters and it becomes a little bit of a running gag Retains an air of mystery about these characters' What sins could Manny and the up in these positions? It's fun to think about. Anyway, another wrench gets thrown Manny's Reapers can't just go to the land of the living Down in the garage, we meet Glottis. I love Glottis. Though he looks like just a mechanic, So yeah, he's a mechanic. Glottis will actually die if he's away from vehicles It turns out Manny's regular driver has been given Manny tries to persuade Glottis to be his new to fit in, so we need a work order signed This involves a short puzzle where we change his out of office reply so Now, this first puzzle is fairly straight-forward bit of exploring. It's clever, makes Don't get used to that. So with the work order signed, And we're off to the the land of the The collage art style of the and it's kind of implied that this This tiny segment is the only time we which is a shame. But then again, I'm Grim Fandango is really great at giving you just back too much of the curtain and revealing And I much prefer stories like that as you all of their secrets willingly, The whips and chains down in this dungeon Manny can scare the customers in the already horrifyingly contorted faces, but the twitching body bag on the floor, the last person Seems weird that the diner still has patrons but eh, you know, gotta get Anyway, turns out this shlub, Bruno After getting reamed out by his boss, Manny decides to take matters into his This kicks off a rather convoluted puzzle, Before that, I want to talk more about backgrounds and 3D character The remastered version has a different talking about being able to play the original 4:3 aspect ratio with The remaster adds shadows and different lighting, ups the frame rate, and makes There are some technical issues the remaster has, though, and I'm pretty sure There are plenty of graphical shenanigans non-existent car, pressing a button and having his head disappear. Just More seriously, I had a character get over an item to them, which soft locked the game. And I also experienced one crash Save often is my advice, and the game tells you utilize all of the save slots the game offers Those technical issues aside, of the hiccups diminished my experience. If The designs of the reapers and other for one, the calavera from which is also where Manny's last And it's amazing how much personality and distinctiveness is given The characters that aren't just The voice acting is a huge part of what Full Throttle was the first LucasArts professional voice talent and that Manny is voiced by Tony Plana, who nowadays kind thing I noticed while researching. But anyway, He gives Manny a suave, deadpan style that elevates him above Glottis is voiced by Alan Blumenfeld who's and would go on to work with Tim Schafer His performance as Glottis is just perfect. Mercedes Colomar, whom we've yet to meet, but who plays a vital role in the story is Plana and Blumenfeld, she's also had She gives Mercedes a playful charm I mean, you can really go on and actor. They're all perfectly cast, The voice acting is just incredible throughout. If you've watched any of my other fan of pre-rendered backgrounds and We've only seen the DOD and the small area we'll travel to other locations and some The whole game has such a vibe, and much like the there's a hint of mystery to each of these places. I always love games that you feel like and Grim Fandango nails that. Music is also appropriately cinematic and fits But there's also a lot of South with the Day of the Dead theme of the visuals. It's all really high quality, and while not every film soundtrack should, complementing The music was composed by Peter McConnel, mid-2000s when he branched out to work InFamous, Brutal Legend, Hearthstone, Gameplay in Grim Fandango of course, though the remaster and console The environments and objects a variation of the pie menu that When you click on anything interactable by pictographs for talking, picking up or using. Most of the items Manny picks up can be placed bottom right of the screen switches to a closeup You can hear a description of the object that's been done in many games both before and way to not break immersion with the game world, especially when you're holding Would have been nice to have an option to Other than that though, this is classic need to try pretty much every item you've got because like I said earlier, logic pretty much Now, some people love this kind forcing their way through the game but the game does give you subtle You really need to pay attention, scour you never know what minute detail But yeah, it sometimes does item in your inventory until something works. And then you say to yourself, oh yeah, sure. I can see how that sort of makes To further illustrate my point, So Manny wants to intercept finally start to build up some credit Yeah, you get it. So the way you go about doing this Here's how this second puzzle works, going to spoil before I throw out an But, I guess, here's a mini warning if you really want to play this game and try So here we go. The Department of Death has a pneumatic tube system it uses for interoffice mail. so he can sneak into the mail room and steal There are subtle hints leading you toward When you head down to the lobby, the where previously they were closed, and a janitor tell you that the tubes were jammed again and That door that Brennis came out of leads to the The door to the actual machine is locked, so There's also a fire extinguisher we'll need this for a later, unrelated puzzle. Outside the DOD headquarters, there's but Manny can't get through to is a real shame. Would have been fun But anyway, a clown with a pissy attitude If Manny talks to him enough, the clown and you get choices. You should but for our current objective, Manny needs I mean, that is pretty funny. But anyway, back to the puzzle. Manny has gunk up the tube system, so Brennis Though, I'm telling you this, the out that the balloons need What can Manny put inside the balloons though? so it's gotta be something around the DOD. After much searching, Manny finds that the room for packing people in coffins. We saw that You need to fill one ballon with the packing packing material on the left, then go up to your This will gunk up the system, which causes Brennis to open the door to fix it. Now that so when Brennis finishes up and goes to Now Manny can get into the so how do we stop a message from passing through? Well, in Manny's office there's a pack hole punch. Punch the cards, take them down to This will stop a message, and voila, Manny's See what I mean though. It all makes explore, check everything, and talk to You may be thinking that's insane, and I've seen a lot of forum posts about Grim the setting, the characters, but They're mad or disappointed that they I get it. But, actually, that was Here's the thing: Many point and click adventures had borderline unsolvable puzzles. It got pretty players, there was a certain joy in that, like There was almost a sense of spite when you those stupid game designers thought Point and click adventures were also so like a lot of developers were pushing to see their progress. Almost like they didn't I can't say that for sure, but it There's another side to it, though. Grim Fandango and other games when people didn't have access The concept of a backlog wasn't really a thing. Unless you were some rich kid whose parents somebody's only new game for months, something maybe a birthday or holiday gift, and Keep exploring. Keep trying different Or didn't and just never ended up But because of this, game designers then. Wasting a player's time wasn't why people were playing the Nowadays, that's almost an insulting over-tutorialized, look here, don't get lost, we haven't told you to press that button yet, why would you press that button to do? Style of game design that Let me press the button, game. Let me But, you know, I get it. I'm not the target I find joy in discovery. I don't want to be told That's why I'm playing the game. To figure it out. But yeah, I guess I'm just trying to illustrate and many LucasArts and other point-and-clicks difficult to solve, I get And you can always just use a guide if you can't yourself. Don't let some low lifes on the Internet and spend the precious little free time you have. Anyway, back to Grim Fandango, Manny for short, but he finds out, despite she's hardly banked any credit Manny heads off to try to but gets pulled into Don Copal's office. He Obviously, something is going on for the Number Nine Express, but Manny There's nothing he can do about it though, but is rescued by a shadowy figure and the LSA, a rebel outfit looking to expose Salvador Limones is their leader, And so begins Manny's initiation into the LSA. Here's where we break for spoilers. If you would I'd suggest stopping the video, playing the game, you want to, that'd be cool, if you came back and For everyone else though, who've already played wanna listen to me spoil the rest of the story and OK, here we go. Sal suspects that the DOD is clients who qualify for them and So after being recruited into the LSA, kind of some pigeon eggs, so that Sal can raise them And yeah, did you know baby pigeons I had to look that [__] up so There are some pigeons nesting on but Manny can't get near the eggs. We and what do pigeons fear more than anything else? Why, American Modernist poet Robert Frost, of Luckily, our clown friend specializes in Robert don't know if Robert Frost counts as an animal. There's also some bread in the stand next Using the other end of the line of ties breaks up the bread into the bowl-like object up When the pigeons go for the feed, they pop old Manny doesn't want to hang around the LSA so Sal says they'll let him go off on his own if The only way to do that is with dental records. Earlier on, there was a scene in Domino's was using a punching bag. He also So sneaking back into the DOD, punches the bag a few times to knock Now, he needs to make a dental mold. that in an office building dedicated to From Glottis' shack in the garage, of course. You may or may not have noticed that there was a on how much you explored while you were locked up So fill that mouthguard and bite down hard. After handing over your dental mold, Sal leads you Manny needs to get to the port town of Rubacava, but before that he'll need to Right at the entrance, he reunites with Glottis, who's been banished here for helping Glottis is so upset, he literally rips out Turns out elemental hearts are the Flying spiders. Just let that sink in. Ok. Glottis' heart is stuck Using a bone from a pile nearby Manny manages to launch Glottis' heart out of Next, we get a glimpse of the skeleton pulling the a big time gangster, who's not too happy This is also where we find out that Again? In Grim Fandango, characters refer They're shot with darts filled with causing Marigolds to grow from them. Marigolds are the iconic flower used in Day of that their fragrance will draw departed souls to Back in the Petrified Forest, Glottis and a signpost. This is a 90s adventure game. Nothing But first, the duo need a way over the rocky Glottis will have to modify the car's hydraulics. There are machines to the east that in the forest. This resource is used to The parts in those machines would be so Manny and Glottis bust up the machine. A conspicuous area to the east hides a by placing the signpost Glottis knocked And this leads our heroes to the hanging from another sign a little What isn't convenient is having the next This is where that fire extinguisher we gets put to use. We need to collect some screen and then wait for the beavers to jump extinguisher as they jump through the air There's an element of timing here, but Once the demon beavers have Manny can use the key to unlock Having escaped the Petrified Forest, Manny and Manny heads off to look for Meche and finds Celso You know, one of those old fashioned diners that Anyway, Celso is the man from only afford a walking stick on He wound up in Rubacava after hearing so he's been waiting for her to pass through. Manny decides to help out Celso, who hands Manny also asks about Meche, but Celso hasn't but walking through the fog has him falling off He's rescued by Velasco, the dockmaster who When Manny shows him the photo of Celso's out of town with somebody else weeks ago. Breaking the bad news to Celso has him his wife. Manny seems happy to take Manny's business acumen has allowed into a swanky bar and casino. In been revived over the course of the Manny has still been receiving communique getting updates about the progress of Manny and Meche, and reminders that he should stay focused on the LSA's Yeah, yeah, yeah. Down in the bar area, we catch up with Glottis, who's taken up the piano. Despite making forgotten about Meche, so now that they've Manny feels like it's time for he and Glottis Upstairs at the front desk, we meet Lupe. After chatting with Lupe, Manny can hit the in Rubacava are swindlers and mafioso types, And this is where I feel like Grim Fandango it all: low-key beatnik cafes, high-class gambling dens, and seedy Rubacava is just a chill place to atmosphere here is, I don't know. There's You also spend probably the longest amount and you're going to be hustling back so you really get to know this place, Shortly after leaving his club, This turns out only to be one of Hector LeMans actually does spot Meche through one of the tower He rushes to the docks and makes So after being rescued by Velasco, again, the last one out of Rubacava to The only other vessel leaving is a but they won't let anyone There's one opening in the engine room, and Velasco says Glottis would be perfect That still doesn't help Manny get aboard Anselmo Naranja, hasn't shown up for duty yet. So we've got our goals in getting all of them done is going to be way As we leave the docks, we enter the main areas that you'll be bouncing This is the part of the game where exploration explore, explore. Talk to We have three main tasks we need to complete: getting a union card, and But there are about a dozen little through the three main goals. Many of but some need certain others completed So to start things off, we'll take opening up a spot for Manny on the Limbo. Back at Manny's place, behind the an expensive liqueur that has it. No item that we can interact with You can even take a little A doorway to the right of the bar leads to the been kicked out of the cat track for printing which Manny takes off his hands as collateral Manny gets around to asking what else Charlie and he can do that, so they make a deal. If money from Maximino, the owner of the cat track, Charlie forks over his VIP pass to And I don't know what they're feeding these After picking up a can opener from Manny takes an elevator up to the VIP Manny needs to get down to the wine but the worker in the kitchen, Aitor, won't let Fine, but we'll be taking this Manny can visit Maximino in his office, more about the goings ons in Rubacava in conversations about what you might need Manny's next stop is the Blue Casket, a souvenir photographer who's dirt on Maximino's girlfriend, Lola's pretty sure Olivia is cheating on herself so she figures nabbing some evidence And she almost immediately gets Nick goes off after Lola, which gives Manny There's also a side thing you can do which gets a healthy amount of finger go up and construct his own Then you can ask Olivia to go up again. She steals This has nothing to do with our In the kitchen, Manny finds a waiter dumping into the sink and then putting that water into the Gross. We'll just take some of that with us. As Manny leaves the kitchen, he shooters have on customers. This'll oh I don't know, knock a big, muscular If we wander past the cat track we'll find Toto's tattoo Naranja, the cook who hasn't reported for duty chiseled into his bone. Nobody has any skin Creating a distraction with the some of the hookah water from drink. And the big guy konks out like As Naranja sleeps it off and Toto Manny steals Naranja's dog tags off of him. But Toto tells Valesco that Naranja so this isn't going to be enough Our next stop is the top floor of the cat who has a thing for Manny. We need her handheld metal detector and trying to sweet She mentions that when the walk through metal she needs to take them in the If only we had something that So Manny takes a swig of Marillo de Oro, and Though this is leading up to it turns into Carla unloading her woes onto Manny. You can try to respond to her ongoing sob story, but the replies fly by as she Once she figures out that Manny is only listening metal detector, she yeets it out the window, where And It's just a matter of fishing With the metal detector and it's time to head to the morgue to meet Membrillo. Manny can help Membrillo out with identifying the body while his back is turned. Then, give Membrillo phones up Velasco to break the bad news. Jeez, Manny's kind of an asshole, isn't he? We're maybe beginning to see how he ended up as Anyway, with a spot now open on the Limbo, and he needs to find Glottis some tools. The left path in the plaza leads to around complaining about how they're unemployed. What they need is to take back the means little difficult for them to grasp. Up in the VIP lounge of the cat track, Nick Maximino's girlfriend, earlier, is hanging out. And he's got a conspicuous key Manny mentions he could use a good lawyer, but After threatening to tell Maximino Nick gets flustered and leaves, Taking this up to Carla has Luckily, the key is left After exploring all of Rubacava, the the end of the pier beyond where which can I just say, once again, what Anyway, at the top of the Lola leaves behind a ticket to Lupe's After Lupe retrieves the coat, Manny checks the pockets and finds a slip of If we show it to Glottis, he'll Manny can also show Glottis the VIP Glottis will snatch it and head to You can show that pass to Glottis right beginning of this section, but then you Anyway, we'll catch up with him later. In In the Blue Casket, there's a table of when Manny shows them the letters from They even let him borrow their book on Marxism Giving the book to the worker which unfortunately gets them Bourgeois pig. He's gonna need a good lawyer to the dirt on Nick to put the smarmy he needs to find the photograph Lola snapped So once again, after searching all over Rubacava found inside Lola's jacket means, the only Turns out it's one of his designs. When he is a photo of a cat race finish, which Lola This is our clue to head back to the cat track. Manny uses the ticket printer to print a betting The clerk at the ticket counter will but the guy at the photo counter isn't so bright. And what do you get for your winnings? Back in the VIP lounge, Glottis sure Showing the photo to Nick will convince him to With the favor done for the bees, they'll lend is retrieve Charlie's briefcase from the cat track Locking Raoul in the pantry, sets off a chain of events that will eventually wind Glottis will come in looking for more drinks and the can opener he found in the kitty litter area Aitor takes the empty barrel down to There's a puzzle involving the fork lift down Manny needs to drive the lift into the elevator, then position the forklift so Getting everything positioned and timed right use the lever on the side of the fork lift to In this area he finds a storage which it turns out is full of Unfortunately, Manny won't find out who just yet, because as he exits the VIP area, he runs He does hand over the union card that Manny wanted he really didn't have to do that. He had Manny case. It's kind of weird, but I guess Manny now has everything he but we've got a new problem. From talking to Max earlier, we know that The police officer from earlier is suspicious so he's prowling around Manny's game floor. The only way to get Glottis out and that means getting Manny's casino shut down. At the desk in Manny's office device that will choose where the If we set it so it lands on 14 red, the pig So Manny and Glottis set sail on Manny's managed to become captain Zapato with customs agents ready to board for However, a pigeon from Salvador arrives and Puerto Zapato. She threw herself overboard The bird also says that assassins disguised as Below deck, the crew has already been Glottis shows up and rescues Manny. and there's a puzzle involving You need to get the anchors tangled up with on either side of the room and the two levers If you manage to do it, Manny can use his scythe to attach the anchors to the Starting the engines will rip the ship but will also eventually sink Underwater, Manny and Glottis can't they'll be attacked by the creatures down here. Fortunately, there's a little light attached to him. This is Chepito. He's wandered the ocean floor for years and years, submarine. Problem is, Chepito has a [__] sense Luring him close will have so now they can get out of Manny and Glottis need a diversion to get close. Manny and Glottis find themselves which looks really cool from the outside. This is a much more compact area than but the puzzles are just as The first thing to do is enter which eventually leads to an office She explains that she chucked a bottle at into the same trap she did, which was set up by And he offers Manny a job here. No, Glottis! Manny wakes up in his new place of who are so annoying. And I'm glad they don't You can bring up their dead parents ...kids... This tiny hammer is going to Manny tries to explain himself to Meche, who thinks he's just in league with Domino to convince her otherwise is if Manny hands One thing we can do is puff on our cigarette her leg, burning a hole through her panty Manny just goes ahead and takes them I ain't gonna kink shame a dead man. We can learn a bit more about what's in his office. He says the plan to him were all Hector LeMans' idea. Domino by taking over operations here at the edge of What exactly are they doing out here on the But it turns out that's just a front. So Meche did qualify for a ticket on the Hector. They then sell the stolen tickets to Those who are materially wealthy in and don't qualify for any decent travel Domino and Hector are using the eighth circle and have no real desire to leave. Looks like it's time to bust up their who's working in the fields outside. If you trade him the little hammer, Trading the panty hose will get Manny a Running over to the other side of the field, Manny finds a conveyor belt. Following the Oh thank god. I mean, I didn't really think I was still relieved to see him here. Glottis has been tinkering with this ship that's undersea cliff. There's nothing we can really do he can head up to the surface and mess with Moving it to the opposite side, dropping the will set the chain loose. And we can drop Back at the crane controls, Manny moves it back to the original side of the island and Messing with the conveyor belt lever will and then Manny can haul up While Glottis works his magic, Manny heads Meche. However, she's still under the impression Domino doesn't really care if Meche shoots Manny. Meche has been tossed in a room with short puzzle to get the door open, Manny finds I don't know why he would do that, but you close the door because you need to touch circuit the connection and open the door to But now, Manny and Meche need to plumbing pipe seems promising. Maybe When Manny turns off the water, we see there's a Luckily, someone left this heavy battle ax That's a mystery we'll need to Manny and Meche escape and meet up with boat using the grinders so they Domino gives chase in The Pearl and Manny like this is meant to be some kind of But yeah, turns out Manny really is no action you want, but the only way to end things Would you look at that. Those [__] So one year later, the group cold outpost of the Double N train station Glottis isn't feeling too well, so he checks out. Guess even if you've bought a ticket, you can't fool the Double N Express. So rich people who give them money for tickets. Inside the station, Manny finds Chepito little pool in a circle, because he years just walking around in circles but yeah, this visual gag falls flat After leaving the station again, one of Hectors Down at the bottom of the steps, Manny can whom he unceremoniously packed away and shipped Underneath the station we find They inform Manny that Glottis otherwise he'll die. So what else is there Down below there's a kitchen. Place the grab a rag from the drawer, soak it in oil, mechanics come in and put out the fire destroying the mug and blasting off Apparently that [__] can power a rocket. So they strap Glottis to a rocket, fueled by Glottis is revived, and the rocket falls apart near Rubacava. The place is At least Velasco is still here. Manny the La Mancha on their travels. This is He mentioned it when Manny and Glottis first which allows Manny to take the ship in a Inside the abandoned Blue Casket, theres a barrel wine and go to leave, but it turns out the Blue Manny tells her he's heading back to so she says she'll tag along. Back at the garage, Manny needs to give Glottis because Glottis couldn't turn his fat ass Anyway, one reload later, and After that, Glottis returns and Ok, so now what?. Well, once again, after really find in Rubacava is a bottle of Using that on the vomit freezes it, so Manny floor still makes this disgusting They get the car fired up and drive back they're taken captive by the LSA, which is lucky. The resistance has grown quite a bit since Hector's operation. At that moment, an agent The agent brings news that another agent has been found out and sprouted. Olivia begs He tosses a photo of the undercover Once we've got control of Manny again, arm from the ground and get on Climbing a ladder puts Manny backstage at in makeup are hanging out. Taking Manny climbs to the catwalk and pours Both of them run off, so he replaces the coffee snow machine. Manny can place the bone he's picked In the room beyond, Manny gets his own makeup disguise so he can move Out on the casino floor, the agent from and Meche is keeping Chowchilla Charlie company. They throw a sheet over him and I don't know if I missed something here, takes off his suit, and comes out know if they're on their way But yeah, Manny goes inside Heading back to LSA HQ, Manny digs through occasions throughout this game, and pulls out the Manny then gives the note that Hector station to the pigeon, along with the This sends the pigeon to the weapons lab, where bird now has the note, and this tricks Hector's out to get him for not noticing So Bowlsley jumps out of the lab and heads to Before going to find him, Manny grabs the Here's another puzzle that Bowlsley ran down the dark entrance to the but a growl in the darkness All he says is he won't be able to helpful. And that's the only clue Would you like to take a guess at Go ahead. That's right. It's the snow grinder that We make a trail with ground up bone game filled with nonsensical puzzles If the hint would have been like, we need so we don't get lost. Or something like that, then But the thing that makes this even even go through a maze. There's finding Bowlsley's hideout. Most Anyway, before they can get out of the tunnel, You can push the alligator back with the car, behind the alligator, use the hydraulic controls The alligator is stuck, and now Manny Again, another weird puzzle here. The Florist to Manny. That is, until Manny cuts down the After Manny does this, the Florist warns tells him to leave. All you need to do is exit and Am I missing something here? Like, what the [__]? So the Florist gives Manny a gun and some even know anymore. At this point, I'm like 20 Glottis and Manny return to just Brennis, the janitor from the DOD Manny answer some trivia to prove Manny The board in the background gives pay attention to the new numbers So now Manny has arrived outside of Hector's cutscene, whom Manny then met at the automat Seems like he's found his wife, and they're Manny convinces Celso and and his wife that he was have. He does a terrible job at that, and ends up convinces them to take Hector's offer instead of Hector's impressed with undercover Manny's Hector's bird bursts through the window distraction for Hector to flee. However his fat And yet again, we have another strange puzzle. the concrete. What you need to do is use the bone Again, sort of makes sense since sproutella my problem with the bone grinder is every for a specific puzzle, save for the scythe, but you know, DOD issued tool. But the bone grinder just seems like they were running out of time toward weird that it's used as the solution for Anyway, the growth causes the sign to fall, Manny picks up the case of Double them. As she heads to the station, Instead of being the hero and Manny just bails when Olivia pulls up, God, I love that. So we're out at this green house and man, I just want to live in this screen. Inside the green house, Hector is still alive. So Manny stumbles out of the green he's still got some liquid nitrogen on him. as a solution for 2 puzzles, but in this Back at the car Olivia is looking and is distracted enough not to notice Manny Sal tells Manny he's got a fake explosive in emergency circumstances. There's a gun in which has been tossed somewhere in Inside the briefcase is Manny's scythe, as the ticket behind the greenhouse allows Manny So Manny grabs the gun and heads to the Manny goes up to check on the Afterwards, everyone heads to the station. So everyone boards the train. And that's the end of Grim Fandango. So the characters, story, setting, music, reason Grim Fandango is considered The story feels like it could have been of plenty of humor that holds adventure that spans a bunch of creative But it's the actual gameplay and puzzle sticking point for most people if you aren't playing with a guide, it really your inventory on every interactable spot Now, I know Grim Fandango has plenty of old school new ones as well. And I already talked about in this video, but overall, I do feel like the to enjoying the world and the story, which It's always going to be a big debate amongst and I'd love to hear your For me, though, it's this Even though it's filled with a wrapped up nicely by the end, the Every time I play it, I always wonder what What bizarre sights did we not That doesn't mean I want a sequel that there isn't more to it. I'm The fact that the world still retains So that's Grim Fandango. Thank I covered this game because it was voted on and through YouTube Memberships. Aside from participating in polls for they also get to watch the videos a few days get exclusive updates from me, and they which is a series of short, bonus There's only one so far, but another one is in the oven as we speak. Let Nope, not done yet, but it's almost there. check out the link to my Patreon in the video Anyone who supports with $5 a month or the end of videos like these Dungeon Architects: As well as these Dungeon Connoisseurs: Thank you all for your support, and The dungeon Dwellers also voted for another and I'll be digging into Maken Shao on PS2 Until then, Grim Fandango. Check it out.