What's the best two-factor app? Hi, everyone. Leo Notenboom here for askleo.com. Here's the question I got. Many websites, now including Social to employ an authentication app What are the best free authentication apps and Windows platforms? I used to have a very simple I'll mention it before I'm done. But what's best for you is going to depend devices you have, and whether or not So what we're talking about here, for is what's called a time-based We often refer to these as because they were one of the first to provided these codes as necessary. When you set up your account with a cryptographic relationship between What that allows them to do display a six-digit code Only that authenticator app It's the only one that can generate random-looking in sequence. The service, on the other hand, it's been given is the correct code By being able to provide this you have proven you are in possession That then is your second factor. Since we talk a lot about it being one of the obvious answers I've got it open here You'll find it also in the Apple Store. It's an app that installs Google Google Authenticator to get you your two-factor codes. If that's all you need, you're actually However, it's not enough What I do is something Again, Google Authenticator and many of but I want it on my desktop. I want it on my phone. I want it on my Mac. I want it on my PC. Well, someday, I guess You get the idea. I'm on all the platforms, solution doesn't work for me. What turns out to be happening right now is that many password vaults are adding support for two-factor authentication. In my case, I've been using 1Password. 1password allows you to set it up as your For example, here's my Microsoft account And It's got a username and a password, has a one-time password field here. You can see there's a little countdown. That number will change unpredictable Entering the current number when I sign am in possession of my second factor. It's interesting because 1Password will not just my username and password, two-factor request, it may very well enter don't even have to think about it. However, if it doesn't, well, you can the clipboard, and that way you can then Now, the reason I went to this I want this everywhere I am. My password vault was already there. Adding two-factor to my password vault for me and does not reduce my security Yes, there are those who feel that I tend to disagree. But nonetheless, I think that the and it's not just one password, you're using already, authentication natively What if you don't have a mobile device? What if you don't want to use 1Password? The desktop-only solution, about those in a minute. The one that I'm going to point you Keepass is another password manager. It uses a different model. It doesn't keep an online database, but it You don't have to use the You can set it up to only take care That's a fine approach to a desktop-only Now, I will say that every time almost always controversial to somebody. I'm always faced with a slew of, Or, Why Why didn't you talk about that? It's not obvious. But if you go out to alternative2. Net, it lists 39 alternatives If what I've just described to you have a look out there. I've certainly not tried them all. Some of them I've never heard of before. So that's why in a lot of cases, for me to mention them here. However, One thing I am going on this video and on Com. Com/172-922. I get a lot of really good suggestions I won't say that I agree with them. I certainly can't necessarily a lot of alternative perspectives Now, if you've been watching me you'll probably notice that I'm not that I used to mention all the time. And that was Authy. Authy was my go-to recommendation It was everywhere. It was in Windows, on Mac, Unfortunately, Othie is now They have stopped support That frustrated the heck out of me across all the platforms. But if they're going to be a fine alternative for smartphone only. I really don't see a strong reason to unless, of course, you're in the camp So bottom line, Regardless of what solution you is a significant security boost Then, if you're open to it, to be your authenticator. It's an app you should already have, it and it's one less app to install. For updates, for comments, and more, and like I said, lots askleo.com/172922. I'm Leo Notenboom, and this is askleo.com. Thanks for watching.