Translator: Spring Han A friend of mine told me recently had come from school And this is hard for me to hear The beauty and power of mathematical But I know that many people Math can be the best of times an exhilarating journey of discovery or descent into tedium, Mathematical miseducation We practically expect math class to be repetition and memorization And we're not surprised when they leave school disliking math, even committed to avoiding it Without mathematical literacy, And they become easy prey payday lenders, the lottery, (Laughter) and anyone, really, who wants Did you know that if you insert people are 92 percent more likely (Laughter) Yeah, I totally made that up. (Laughter) And 92 percent is - it has weight And that's how it works. When we're not comfortable with math, we don't question But what's happening is only half the story. Right now, we're squandering with the beauty and power I led a workshop on this topic recently, and said that the experience &quot;like a God.&quot; (Laughter) That's maybe the best for what mathematical so we should examine what it looks like. A good place to start is with the words of the philosopher who famously proclaimed, But Descartes looked deeper Once he established himself he continued, &quot;What is a thinking thing?&quot; It is the thing that doubts, that affirms and denies, that imagines also, and perceives. This is the kind of thinking we need So, if you are a teacher or a parent I offer these five principles to invite thinking into the math Principle one: start with a question. The ordinary math class and never arrives at a real question. &quot;Here are the steps Here are the steps to divide. You repeat. We've covered the material. What matters in the model There's no room to doubt so there's no real thinking here. What would it look like For example, here Now, there's a question hiding in plain sight. What's going on with the colors? Now, intuitively it feels like between the numbers and the colors. I mean, maybe it's even possible to extend At the same time, the meaning It's a real mystery. And so, the question And like so many authentic this one has an answer that is And of course, I'm not going (Laughter) I don't think of myself as a mean person, but I am willing to deny you (Laughter) Because I know if I rush to an answer, I would've robbed you Thinking happens only And that is principle two. It's not uncommon for students believing that every math problem and if they don't know the answer, This is a failure of education. We need to teach kids to persevere in the face of difficulty. The only way to teach perseverance is to give students time I brought this image and we took the time to struggle. And the longer we spent, the more The students made observations. They had questions. Like, &quot;Why do the numbers in that last column and &quot;Does it mean anything that the green and &quot;What's going on in the red segments? Is it important that those Struggling with a genuine question, students deepen their curiosity They also develop Some students noticed and they were willing to stake a claim. &quot;Orange must mean even.&quot; And then they asked, &quot;Is that right?&quot; (Laughter) This can be a scary place as a teacher. A student comes to you What if you don't know the answer? Well, that is principle three: Teachers, students may ask you questions And this can feel like a threat. But you are not the answer key. Students who are inquisitive is a wonderful thing And if you can respond by saying, &quot;I don't know. Let's find out,&quot; math becomes an adventure. And parents, this goes for you too. When you sit down to do math you don't have to know all the answers. You can ask your child or try to figure it out together. Teach them that not knowing It's the first step to understanding. So, when this group of students I don't have to tell them the answer. I don't even need to know the answer. I can ask one of them to explain to me Or we can throw the idea out to the class. Because they know the answers they need to convince themselves to determine what's true. And so, one student says, I checked all of the even numbers. They all have orange in them. What more do you want?&quot; And another student says, I see what you're saying, but some of those numbers some have two or three. Like, look at 48. It's got four orange pieces. Are you telling me that 48 There must be more to the story.&quot; By refusing to be the answer key, you create space for this kind And this draws everyone in After all, where else can you see Students doubt, affirm, deny, understand. And all you have to do as the teacher and say &quot;yes&quot; to their ideas. And that is principle four. Now, this one is difficult. What if a student comes to you You've got to correct them, right? And it's true, we want students and how to use them. But saying &quot;yes&quot; is not the same thing You can accept ideas, and say &quot;yes&quot; to your students' right to participate in the act To have your idea dismissed To have it accepted, studied, It's also far more convincing to be shown than told you're wrong by the teacher. But allow me to take this a step further. How do you actually know What would happen I don't know. Let's find out. So, if 2 plus 2 equaled 12, then 2 plus 1 would be one less, And that would mean that 2 plus 0, But if 2 is 10, then 1 would be 9, and 0 would be 8. And I have to admit this looks bad. It looks like we broke mathematics. But I actually understand Just from thinking about it, if we were on a number line, and if I'm at 0, and there's no way and wind up back where I started. Unless ... (Laughter) well, what if it wasn't a number line? What if it was a number circle? Then I could take eight steps 8 would be 0. In fact, all of the infinite numbers in those eight spots. And we're in a new world. And we're just playing here, right? But this is how new math gets invented. Mathematicians have actually been studying They've got a fancy name and everything: modular arithmetic. And not only does the math work out, it turns out to be ridiculously useful in fields like cryptography It's actually no exaggeration to say that your credit card number because someone was willing to ask, &quot;What if it was a number circle So, yes, we need to teach students But also we need to say &quot;yes&quot; and model the courage It takes courage to say, and actually explore the consequences. It takes courage to say, &quot;What if the angles in a triangle or &quot;What if there were or &quot;What if there were But that courage and those questions led to some of the greatest All it takes is willingness to play. And that is principle five. Mathematics is not about following rules. It's about playing and exploring and fighting and sometimes breaking things. Einstein called play And a math teacher who lets gives them the gift of ownership. Playing with math can feel like running through the woods And even if you were on a path, Parents, if you want to know how to nurture the mathematical play is the answer. What books are to reading, And a home filled with blocks is a home where mathematical I believe we have the power to help We can't afford to misuse math Math has the potential in teaching the next generation with courage, curiosity, and creativity. And if all students get a chance to experience the beauty and power maybe it won't sound &quot;Math? I actually love math.&quot; Thank you. (Applause)