Transcriber: Gustavo Ramos All right. Thank you. So I'm going to So my first question to you is how much do you care about climate change Excellent. Those responses are coming in Wow, look at that. So high. You're in good hands today. So let's look at the second question. How much concern, worry, fear or anxiety Again, on a scale from 0 to 10, from So let's have a look at All right a bit a bit wider Still quite on the high side right. Okay. So for the next question I would like Don't put them aside yet, but I first would like you to take some the past when you try to take an action but you were unable to complete it. Think about what your action was, the and how that made you feel. And I'll give you a little bit of time an example of that. Wow, that must have been the first time Okay, so I hope you all found an example. What I would like you to do next now How did this moment make you feel? A word or a couple of words that capture Look at those responses coming in. It looks like there's a very, very So let's look at those results there. Frustrated and powerless and helpless in I've never seen so many negative emotions This is the the dictionary Okay, so why did I just ask I'm a neuroscientist, and I'm on a mission and act on climate change. And these questions are super Let's look at the reasons that you had for why you couldn't do It's very, very likely that it's The first type of reason that could have The system didn't allow you to Either something didn't exist or you didn't know how to do it, and you just didn't have the The second reason I hear Other people got in the way or they didn't want to play along Now let's take a step back the results together that you gave here. Despite those very high levels of care many of you can think of examples of and concern did not translate into action, And you're not alone in this. Here in Let's have a look at public opinion This is data from Ipsos Mori, and since 2005 how concerned are you about There's lots of ups and And I could talk about this for hours and I'm not going to do that. But I want to draw your attention to this and then towards 2019, 2021, there's that massive increase in It's a 60% in 2013, and then Now on the surface of that, that that Like more concern about climate change something about this. But on occasion, what are you willing to do on climate This is people's willingness to on a number of different types of actions. And it's comparing the responses from The light green bars are and the dark green ones are And despite over that same period of time, There's barely any movement in people's So concern is going up and willingness to same period. Now that's even only It's not actual action that And we know from other research a very big gap between what people and what they're actually So that gap between concern and action is even bigger than what So all of this together, your own And then this public opinion data the idea that if only we get people then they will do something about this. This is an idea that I hear the conventional wisdom about behavior Unfortunately, if we don't the barriers that we perceive in then no amount of caring more Psychologists have a word to describe the situations where we do know how to Knowing how to do something. To understand agency, just think of an emergency department because of their They instinctively and intuitively know of emergencies that is coming There is a person having a heart attack They just know how to respond to that. Now, if you put me as a layperson on that floor in the hospital, I'll be I would not know what to And the problem is that when most of us are like the headless chicken. Most of us are like the lay person on the We don't have the agency to Now, that lack of urgency plays out the Climate Action Unit. a lot of different professional settings in business and finance, organizations, And what we hear a lot from I know how serious the situation is, but I don't really know how That even applies to politicians The ones that many of you in the room The weirdest place where I ever heard this They said, what can we do? There's We're not billionaires. So many of us feel stuck, and those a lot of ducking, of responsibility. We point a finger, we say it's those something first to solve the crisis. So Governments are looking at Businesses are waiting for consumers and everyone is waiting for everyone So what do we do about this mess? How do we break out of this cycle, where increasing amounts of care the change that is required? Luckily, We need to flip around and realize that in reality. The arrow points from action to care. In real life, actions drive beliefs far It's doing something that our understanding and awareness And once we start doing something the more we start caring about this. One of the reasons why it works that the very first time, you often get some So either you discover that this this that that is actually misplaced and that you really can be doing this or you get some feedback from people that thing you did that's And so the more we start thinking about the more we learn about our ability And that that makes the next action We start to see how we can be doing more, and that that means that action starts and eventually leads to the development like the doctors and nurses in Now you all have examples of perhaps outside of climate change, where and simply by starting that doing, you discovered what it was that So how do we apply this recipe at scale? How do we collectively get ourselves the finger at each other and waiting There are two ways of doing this. The first one is that we need to start a wide range of them, across all of the areas in life where we know And then we need to start doing them. A journey of a thousand miles According to an old Chinese proverb. So in order to go on that journey, you The second way that we can apply. Action is by telling stories of doing, And one of the reasons, or the main because of something that psychologists Most of our own agency comes from seeing My favorite example of that In 2017, she saw students in Florida the streets, and she said to herself, if then I can do this about climate change. And so she went and sat in front and the rest is history. So even the actions of other people, even outside And then once she took that action, she And that's really what we need to We need to create that sense of if And that's across all areas in society change. So it's for the politician the first time how they can do something. It's for people in business It's for our millionaires who are It's for civil servants, for engineers, for people working in the media, Every time one of us discovers how to we need to tell that story so we And that's not the same as telling It's not saying, well, because I you have to do this too. No, it's telling people the story that helps the change happen. So here you really can You can say, at first I didn't but then I took this first step and I and the next one. And then But I found a way around it, and eventually I managed to achieve this I could be doing. So when it comes to how for ourselves and for other people, we need to start to create the recipes the stories that help us to understand And once we start doing that, we will start changing or our perception of climate change from us into something that collectively, all of us together know how will be able to develop the collective Thank you very much.