Hi everyone! you my experiment on using swarm intelligence. I'd like to note that the exact definition of Let's open Wikipedia and read the definition: The agents follow simple rules, and although there individual agents should behave, local, and to such agents lead to the emergence of &quot;intelligent&quot; By intelligence here, we mean not that philosophical questions, but the fact that they which is not obvious from a simple algorithm of Well, here's today's task to look for resources and On the right side of the screen, you see what The agents are looking for resources The agent's algorithm is very simple; the agent is nearest agents, but acting together, they quickly The topic is very interesting. Researchers In my opinion, this will become widespread when devices and there will be a problem Let's get back to the &quot;Screaming Insects&quot; project. This is our agent. He has a direction, and his Now he needs to find point A. the agent has 2 counters, in which the estimated With each turn, these counters increase by one, And with every turn, he shouts out the 50 is the maximum distance at He sort of notifies everyone who hears him point as for him, plus an additional 50 steps. and must bump into an item to understand Here, the Agent has bumped into one He is resetting the counter If this is exactly the item that he has been to move on. Now he needs to find point B. He is heard by the second agent The second agent compares the value he If the values heard are less, the second agent is, he writes down the value that he has heard. him to point A. first agent and one more step to point A. then he would turn in the direction of the Now the second agent notifies the others That is, 50 steps to reach it, and This was heard by the third agent. He updates he turns in the direction of shouting. agent has become even worse than before. But globally, abstract swarm intelligence will counter values for agents, and as a result, So, here's the Agent's algorithm: If you bump into one of the items, If this is the destination you were willing change the destination objective in your head. the maximum distance you can be heard at. If you have heard a value less than in and turn in the direction of the First implementation Here, the agent must shuttle The operation principle is slightly but the picture has turned out to be There are 1600 agents on the field, and a shout To understand the scale, I will pixels and circles with the same radius. connecting the one who shouts provided that the shouting The main difference is that the agent only so the initialization of the shout And then the wave passes where the After some time, something I'm starting the video. Most of the time, agents walk in silence, but even such uncommunicative agents Critically important here is the number of agents Reducing the distance even by one pixel leads to Now I've sped up the playback for you to see that Also, the system has a feature that is a in the presence of two paths, the In the end, I have come to the agents should report the state Now I will show you some interesting points We have two blue bases on the right side Let's launch the agents. the targets, but look what happens. bases than other resources, and therefore, the And the central resource is closer to to carry the resource to this base. talking about: long paths die off quickly. For example, in the final implementation, the resources he should bring so that he And one more thing. The path has been but since the agents are blind, they will walk by. Therefore, in the final version, some deliver the resource, but simply survey the And here's one more trick. and now the agents begin to move in a wide And this happens because after each step, they randomly change direction by a See what would happen if And the last moment here: the agents but they should also have different speeds. If you set the same speed for everyone, turning into a group that roams to one It seems that we have mentioned all the points, and now we are moving on to the final So, the Legend goes as follows: red, green, and blue. after a red, green, and blue resource. they have grabbed the resource and Also, among the agents, there are scouts who move around the area and don't have a But if they bump into a resource, And this is the Queen; the circle in Let's go. To challenge it a bit, resources the Queen herself is constantly on the move, The agents have a lifespan, But the Queen, if all the three resources Or, with some probability, she can spend Besides, any agent, being 1000 steps from start shouting around the district take resources from the approaching On the screen, you can already By the way, the agents don't and carry resources to where it is closer. Newly emerged Queens need to quickly get all the three resources to have enough It all depends on good luck. It is necessary to Resources are of a fairly small capacity, a swarm Few resources manage to get away if The only salvation is if the same resources are Well, next I'll share my fantasies. There are caravans, so you need to learn how Or we can create an economic simulation. Each The agent must decide whether to carry them close, high price, although facing a risk to be robbed. Speaking of construction. but also to engage in construction. how termites build their termite mounds. insects build a complex multi-tiered maze as But I still couldn't understand it. on how to implement this. Thanks to everyone who supports us on patreon. Well, that's all for now, bye everyone!