If you've ever thought, "I want to make You might think, &quot;Wait, cleaning make?&quot; I used to think the same way too. through Chanoyu and incorporating it into my daily free, and filled with happy moments. cleaning can improve your life. even those who hate cleaning may my room right now!" 1 You Feel Happier Yes! Cleaning actually makes people feel happier. There's an interesting survey Duskin (conducted with 4,700 people Look at this table. What this table shows is that feel happier with their current life. For example, people who love cleaning feel almost 35% more happy than people Isn't it interesting? So, why does cleaning make you feel happy? There are two big reasons. 1 Release of the &quot;Happy Hormones&quot; Yeah, it's serotonin that calms It gets activated by moderate That's exactly what cleaning is! 2Become More Positive Psychologist Dr. Sherrie Bourg Carter says messy spaces are often linked to negative while clean spaces are more likely to These positive feelings can include I used to find cleaning annoying, but now I'm hooked on this happy feeling. Try cleaning for just 5-10 minutes every 2 Your Income Increases Really? Yes, really! Check this out this survey from Duskin again: From this table, you can see that people who Another study by Lion Corporation households that keep their toilets clean have an average household income Y=880,000($6,248) Isn't that interesting? So, why does cleaning lead to a higher income? There are many reasons, but I believe it's Konosuke Matsushita, the founder of efficiently do something anyone can do, like Although I'm still not very good at planning, I want to learn little by 3. Grab the Oppotunity There's a scene I love in *Castle in the Sky*. Dola tells Pazu, "40Miao deZhi Du shina!You've And guess what? Pazu actually gets ready in 40 Can you get everything you Me? Well, I thought maybe I Check it out. OMG!! Getting ready in 40 I mean, if you don't know where everything From this experience, I learned one thing: Pazu's house must be super organized, and What I learned from this scene is: *Being organized = being able to get You never know when It might be something dramatic, like Pazu's. Let's aim to be ready in 40 seconds! 4. More Free Time When your room is always organized, Why? Because you won't be So here's a question for you: How much extra free time do you think you Bestselling author Liz Davenport says about 150 hours a year searching for things. That's like 36 minutes a day! If you think about a 40-year working What could you do with 250 days? You could travel, learn a new language, spend or drink a ton of matcha! My mom always used to say, 'Spending time As a kid, I thought, &quot;What is she talking about?&quot; ...Sorry, Mom. You were right. Haha. 5. Clears Your Mind Are you feeling stressed right now? If so, it's time to clean! Cleaning is one of the best According to a survey by &quot;OfferUp,&quot; 61% said they felt stress relief after cleaning. At the same time, 54% reported I think this happens because cleaning Just like in a tea ceremony, This slow paced movement is It's almost like doing a moving meditation. When you focus on the &quot;now,&quot; you can let go of 6. Become Healthier Back in college, there were times when I just I felt sluggish and wondered what was going on, and then I discovered a ton of mold It seemed like that mold was I immediately cleaned up not only that After that, I felt so much Then I realized if I want to stay Data from Duskin also shows that people So if you want to live a healthy 7. Save Money Because it cuts down on unnecessary spending. For example, when you clean your It's simple: your own room As a result, you end up with fewer at cafes, which saves you cash. Another reason is that you develop Cleaning is all about When you keep that up, you start In my case, I've found myself doing and sewing on my own without even realizing it. That's definitely a way to save money too! So, to sum it up, cleaning which means you end up saving more money. 8. Boost Your Focus When you clean, you don't have For example, take a look at these two desks. Which one do you think It's probably the second one, right? By the way, the first one is my I couldn't focus at all because I'd sit down to study, but a big cleaning session or reading manga instead. But now, with no distractions around, So, if you want to boost your 9. Noticing the Little Things Cleaning helps you notice small changes! For example, when you clean, you scratches on the floor that Once you start noticing those little details, you'll also begin to notice Like a friend's new hairstyle, flowers growing along your usual path, When you can catch those tiny changes, Why? Because you'll find 10. Attracting Good Luck Like I said earlier, cleaning And I think that's the key to attracting luck. Who would you rather be around--a person who looks unhappy or someone who I'm guessing you'd choose the happy one, right? When you're feeling good and seem happy, The word &quot;luck&quot; in Japanese is written as So, luck is something that's carried If people gather around you, you new opportunities, or even And when you seize those chances, you'll That's what we call &quot;being lucky.&quot; Lastly, I've got a question for you all: Do you feel like cleaning now? Cleaning is such a small thing, but it's a If you are agree with that, let's clean together! Alright, I hope to see you in the next video! Bye bye!!