- Now, if you'll pull inside your program, we're and I'm calling &quot;The Manifestation Now, in the first session three ways we learn. We learn by experience, and we learn by example. Without a doubt, the easiest way to learn is by example. Then you don't have to make You can learn from successful examples, you can actually learn from failures. You can learn from good from bad examples. We're gonna take the Book of Jonah and learn from a bad example, who will later turn around and actually eventually got it right, of a guy who was given a mission from God and he went the other way. God said, &quot;Go,&quot; Jonah said, (all laugh) And that's the whole story of Jonah. God has a life mission for your life. This is the most important to know your life mission. You don't wanna go through life, stand before God, and on judgment day, and God goes, &quot;Well, did &quot;that I gave you on this earth?&quot; You go, &quot;Oh, I didn't You think you are put on this Really? No, no, no. God has a much bigger mission for your life than for you to just make money, retire, and die. Oh, no, no, no. You're not here for something that small. God has a life mission for every life. Now, today we know that Jonah, we're lookin' chapter God had said, &quot;I want &quot;which was the capital of Assyria, &quot;and I want you to tell this It's 550 miles to the East Jonah goes the exact opposite direction that's far away from God's He gets on board a boat which is a seaport on the coast of Spain. It's 2,500 miles the opposite direction. And last week, we looked about your life mission. Do you know those 10 lessons? If you don't, you need to go back and listen to that message. It's online, the first When God has a life mission for your life. But when you run from God, It creates all kinds of problems, and we looked at the problems it's all down, down, down, down. He gets onboard a ship, he in the Mediterranean Pacific. The Mediterranean, the the sailors throw him overboard. And he gets swallowed Now, remember I told you is not in the story. You've all heard your life that Jonah was swallowed by a whale. Well, first place a whale's not a fish. A whale is a mammal. And God knows the difference. Could have been a whale, but the sailors would've had known that that it was a mammal. But a lot of scientists the largest fish in the ocean, which is actually called a whale shark. And I showed you a picture Here's what it looks like There we go. That's a whale shark. They're typically about 40 feet long. That bus could hold 80 passengers. That whale shark could hold one man. And whale sharks are because they are filter feeders. They eat micronutrients. They don't need teeth like most sharks do, 'cause they don't tear stuff apart. They only eat micronutrients, swallowed a man. The Bible doesn't say God could have resurrected but that was it. And then I wanna show compared to a man. Here's the other one. There's Jonah, actually they're swimming. (all laughing) And there's a whale shark. There are lots of pictures or in our first session 'cause these guys are totally But we ended the first chapter of Jonah with this verse. Look on the screen. &quot;Now the Lord had &quot;to swallow Jonah.&quot; And that means He custom-made. If God, you don't have a problem with it. If you believe that God God created every fish in the ocean, God created every animal, God could have custom-made a dinette, and air conditioning So if you have a problem with God creating something special, you have But let's go back to that verse. It said, &quot;The Lord had actually the word is ordained, &quot;to swallow Jonah. &quot;And Jonah was inside &quot;and three nights.&quot; I heard about a little girl, by a skeptic and he goes, &quot;How could God create a fish And the little girl said, &quot;I'm not God. &quot;But when I get to heaven, &quot;how God did it.&quot; (congregation laughs) And the skeptic said, &quot;Well, what if Jonah didn't go to heaven, &quot;what if he went to hell?&quot; She said, &quot;Then you can ask him.&quot; (congregation laughs) No. One thing we know for the story was a fable, but Jesus said, &quot;No, it actually happened.&quot; And you're doubting Jesus. Jesus said it was a true actual story. In fact here's what the Bible says. This is hundreds of years later. Some religious scholars they didn't think He is who Some religious scholars challenged Him saying, &quot;We Now, Jesus answered, &quot;and you intend evil, you keep &quot;but the only miraculous &quot;will be the same sign as Jonah.&quot; Now let me explain that. Jesus did a lot of miracles People who had faith in Him, He healed people, He raised the dead, He did all kinds of miracles but Jesus didn't go around He wasn't doing these to people who didn't believe. And so He goes, &quot;You just &quot;The only miracle you're gonna see &quot;is the same miracle as Jonah.&quot; Now here's what the &quot;For just as Jonah was in &quot;for three days and nights, &quot;so I, the Son of Man, will &quot;for three days and nights.&quot; He goes, &quot;I'm gonna die, &quot;I'm gonna resurrect myself.&quot; That's called Easter. Then on Judgment Day, that's people Jonah was are gonna stand up in of you living now. Why? Because when Jonah warned them, They changed their ways, But today, someone greater than Jonah, He's talking about Himself, He's saying, &quot;Today, &quot;I'm standing here, &quot;is speaking to you right now, &quot;yet you refuse to turn Now, what do you do In this chapter, we I hope this weekend you're I really do. I hope you're not feelin' hopeless. You're gonna need this because you will have you're gonna lose loved ones, you're gonna have failures, in your life where it feels hopeless. Are you gonna know what to do? The Bible tells us what to Number one, let's get right into it. When you hit bottom, look up to God. When you hit bottom, you look up to God. This whole chapter, chapter two, is actually a prayer. It's Jonah's prayer that in the ocean, he's swallowed he doesn't know what's going is when I'm sinkin', when I'm going down, I'm gonna look up to God. I'm going to pray. That's the first verse, Jonah 2:1. From inside the fish, Jonah Circle &quot;Jonah prayed&quot;. You know, it's funny, I and I was like, if some fish dinner than a prayer meeting, in this case, after the fish (all laughing) Little bit different here. How do you think Jonah felt swallowed up by this situation? Well, he immediately does He looks up. When you're hittin' bottom, you look up. He prays to God. Now, a lot of people &quot;everything out in our &quot;should we pray?&quot; It's good question. If God's planning everything God's in control, why should we even pray? And the reason why is because God, in His sovereignty and wisdom, that He wants to see in your life, but He also prescribes the means. He prescribes the ends to and then He also prescribes the means. And God wants to involve us in His plan. And so part of His plan to accomplish what He intends to do. Part of God's plan is that to accomplish what He wants to do already. This is inviting us to be His partners. This is quite a privilege. God could do everything in the world without a single prayer. He doesn't need our prayers. But God has chosen to and me in my own life, and of the world. And there's some things He has predicated what He God wants to involve us. There are some things, there in life that the only way those problems solved is if about that prayer. I'm not talking about praying If you only care about about it once, you don't But something that you in your life, you're and over and over. Why does God wait to answer our prayers? He can honestly answer if He wanted to, but He doesn't. He lets us pray, and pray more, and pray more, and pray He wants first to distinguish between what's really a real desire in your life and what's just a whim. When my kids were little we'd go through stores, daddy, I want this for Christmas, I'm not really paying attention. As soon as it's out of sight, we're in the next row, That's just whim. I'd like this, I'd like this. Oh, I'd like this, I'd like this. It's kinda like the way (congregation laughs) But when they go, &quot;I really want this,&quot; and I keep hearing them say, &quot;Dad, I really want this for Christmas. &quot;Dad, I really want this for Christmas. &quot;Dad, I really,&quot; now I There's a difference between just a whim. God says, &quot;If you don't &quot;more than one time, you You want a husband? You want a different job? You wanted healing? What do you want in life? Do you care about it enough until God answers? God is testing your faith. He's more interested than He is simply answering God's not a slot machine, and you pull it, and instantly A slot machine will give God will never give anything But there are some kind that are never gonna be and you pray persistently. You can try everything else God is waiting for you to pray. One time some of Jesus' came by and there was just he had a bad spirit in him. And we tried to pray for and he wasn't healed. Why couldn't we do that? We're kinda embarrassed we were And here's what Jesus said, on the screen, Mark 9:28 and 29, &quot;The disciples privately asked Jesus, &quot;'Why couldn't we drive &quot;Jesus answered, ''Cause &quot;'forced out by prayer.'&quot; Now what is Jesus saying here? There are some problems in your life, you can try every human solution There are some problems in so deep rooted in your in your traumas. Some problems that are so gonna come out is by prayer. And so this is a starting point. Jonah does this thing right. This is the first thing he's done right. He's thrown overboard, He looks up and he God's waiting to see how Now, here's the second thing he did. This is what Jonah did. God wants you to do this too. When you're feeling Pray passionately. I'm talking about pray with emotion. There are certain kinds and there are certain kinds of prayers God's just bored with. God is bored with the trite, memorized, mechanical, methodical, memorized prayer. We just go, &quot;Now I lay me down to sleep, &quot;I pray the Lord my And we have all of our little cliches, &quot;Bless this food to the And we're not even thinking about it 'cause we said them so many times. There's a difference, when a child comes to that's just, they don't really mean it, but when they come and and they say it with emotion. I can imagine as Jonah's and is getting swallowed by this fish that he's praying, &quot;Now (congregation laughs) I doubt he's even prayin' hallowed be Thy name. Firstly, Jesus hadn't But he's not praying some &quot;Help! &quot;God, I need help right now!&quot; And he is crying out, He's praying with emotion. This guy is desperate. He's frantic. God answers desperate prayers. God answers frantic prayers. God answers emotional prayers. When was the last time God hears the crisis prayer. In Jonah verse two, we see this praying passionately. Jonah said, &quot;In my distress &quot;I cried out.&quot; Circle that, that's passionate prayer. &quot;I cried out.&quot; When was the last time Not like, &quot;Hi, God, how is it going? &quot;How are You doing? &quot;Hope you had a good day today, I did too. &quot;See you tomorrow.&quot; (congregation laughs) &quot;Over and out, 10-4, good buddy.&quot; Yeah. God gets so bored with They're just words. They mean nothing. He says, &quot;You worship Me with your lips &quot;but not with your heart.&quot; They're just mouthing platitudes. God says, &quot;When you talk to Me, &quot;I wanna hear what's on your heart. &quot;I don't want you to &quot;you should tell Me. &quot;I don't want you to &quot;in some Bible school or catechism, &quot;I want you to tell Me &quot;And I want you to be passionate about it. &quot;I want you to be emotional. &quot;I want you to be authentic. &quot;I want you to be real.&quot; Jonah says, &quot;I cried out.&quot; That's the second thing, you don't just look up, you cry out. You look up and you cry out. You look up and you cry out. When you're in pain, when when you're bein' swallowed up by the circumstances around you. Now there's a word for this. Crying out to God in the Bible Lamenting. A crying out to God is called a lament. A lament is the synonym for a complaint. You say, &quot;Wait a minute, it's Of course it's okay to complain to God. God wants you to complain to Him, because He loves you, He's interested in every Yes, it's okay to complain to God. God, I don't like this. This sucks, this is terrible. This is not right. This is not fair. That's called lamenting. And did you know that with your personal prayers to God, there are 150 of those. They're not all praise. They're not all sun shiny, happy, clappy, the sun will come out One-third of the psalms 50 of them are complaints. 50 of 'em are laments going, &quot;God, You lied to me. &quot;God, this stinks. &quot;God,&quot; that's called lamenting. Now, the best books on are the Book of Job, the which are the laments of Jeremiah. He was the complaining prophet. Lamentations, Job, and the Book of Psalms. And David laments. They cry out. There's an entire book of It's called Lamentations. The laments of God. So yes, it's okay for because God cares about your laments. God cares about the pain that you have. He far would rather have you complain than for you to say some that you memorized. He doesn't care about that. He wants to know what's on your heart. I could give you example after example how God answers the when they pray passionately. Good example would be Hannah. Hannah, all of her life but she was infertile, And she prays this prayer. Look up here on the screen. 1 Samuel 1. By the way, Samuel ended up being her son that was the answer to her prayer, who became a very famous prophet. 1 Samuel 1, so he's telling Hannah was in deep as she prayed the Lord, &quot;I've wanted to have a baby, &quot;I've wanted to have a baby, Hannah was in deep as she prayed, she's lamenting. And she made this vow. &quot;Oh, Lord, Almighty, if You &quot;and You'll answer my prayer, &quot;and I will give him back to You, &quot;and he will be Yours And she did. And that boy grew up to This I the prophet who ordained Saul, ordained David. He wrote 1 and 2 Samuel in the Bible. This was Hannah's son. She's crying out bitterly, So when you're in trouble the first thing you do is you look up. You look up to God. You pray. The second thing you do You don't just say, &quot;Oh, God, You cry out to God. This is what Jonah's (mumbles). He's not praying perfunctory prayers. This is no polite request. This is gut-wrenching prayer. So if you don't get I want you to get this. It really doesn't matter where you pray. A lot of people think they and kneel down to pray. God doesn't care where you pray. Peter prayed while he's And all kinds of people prayed in wars and battles and all kinds. It doesn't matter where you pray, what matters is your heart when you pray. I wanna read you a poem. It's over 100 years old. It's by a guy named Sam Foss. It's called &quot;The Prayer of Farmer Brown&quot;. The proper way for one to is to humble yourself before the Lord and get down on your knees. No, I say that the way to is to stand up straight and eyes turned to the skies. Oh, no, no, no, said Pastor Slow, that posture is too proud. We should all pray with eyes closed tight and heads contritely bowed. Well, I believe your hand in front with both thumbs said Pastor Johnny Blunt. But last year I fell said Farmer Brown, both of and my head was pointing down, yet in my distress I called out to God with the most honest words I've said, yes, the best prayers I've on my head. (congregation laughs) It doesn't matter how you, now, (congregation laughs) I added these. Then Jonah said, &quot;These all may &quot;so use whichever one you wish, &quot;but as for me my best prayer (congregation laughs) It was dark and wet and cold and scary, but my prayers raced like a comet. They streaked across the sky to God, and he made that big fish vomit. (congregation laughs) So when and how and where of private fashion, just you present your needs with passion. All right? (congregation applauds) I think I'll stick to All right, here's the third thing you do when you are feeling hopeless. You're gonna need this someday, Identify the cause of my hopelessness. Identify the cause of my hopelessness. Hopelessness is a vague feeling, and you can't deal with a vague feeling. You can't work with a problem, you can't solve a problem, you can't even pray about a problem until you identify the problem. You gotta identify it. You gotta identify the You can't counteract the Have you ever had a general and you're feelin' down, and you go, &quot;I don't &quot;I don't know why.&quot; Well, you can't work on When you name the feeling, get a handle on it. Anything you can't name in your life. So if you got this vague or vague feeling of or vague feeling of hopelessness, you need to stop and go, &quot;What's behind this?&quot; You need to pinpoint the source. And this is what Jonah did. Years ago I did a study to lose hope. And I discovered, I read of everything I could and I discovered that there are about 10 common causes of hopelessness. The hopelessness isn't the problem, the problem is what's in your life. And it's interesting as I of what's going through his and he's praying this prayer. And he's sinking below the by that fish. I discovered he illustrates common causes of hopelessness. So for your benefit, I I wanna read through and I want us to pick out 'cause then you'll know, makin' me feel bad. It's not this vague sense of hopelessness. You can't work on it until So let me read to you verse three to six in Jonah chapter two. Jonah, this is his prayer. &quot;You, God, cast me into the deep water, &quot;and I sank to the bottom of the sea, &quot;everything was churning around me, &quot;and I was engulfed by powerful &quot;Then I thought, 'I've been &quot;'and I'll never get to see &quot;I was scared to death, &quot;with water choking me, &quot;all around my head.&quot; This is pretty graphic. &quot;I kept sinking down to the ocean floor, &quot;to the mountains that &quot;and I felt locked in a prison forever.&quot; Now, in that passage he of hopelessness. Now I'm not gonna spend but I want you to check any one of these that you may be feeling right now, 'cause this could be a or hopelessness in your life, okay? So here are eight feelings that cause us to feel hopeless, and Number one, first feeling Feeling that I'm in over my head. When you feel like, &quot;I don't have, &quot;my situation exceeds my knowledge. &quot;My situation exceeds my ability. &quot;My situation exceeds my finances. &quot;I'm in over my head. &quot;I've been thrown into the deep end.&quot; Jonah says, &quot;You cast And he's saying, &quot;I'm way out of my depth. &quot;I'm in too deep. &quot;I'm in deep trouble.&quot; When you feel like that's gonna cause you to feel hopeless. Number two, feeling I've hit bottom can cause hopelessness. Feeling I've hit bottom. I sank to the bottom of the sea. There was no way I could go any lower, I was at an all time low. And that when you feel when you feel, &quot;I have hit rock bottom,&quot; or &quot;The bottom fell out, &quot;I'm as low as you can go. &quot;I've hit bottom.&quot; That's gonna cause hopelessness. Third feeling. Job says, &quot;Feeling out of Feeling out of control and powerless. He says in the next phrase, circle that, &quot;churning around me.&quot; Every felt like that, everything You feel out of control to change anything. You're drifting without direction. You got motion without meaning. You got activity without clarity. You've got pressure without purpose. You're just drifting around. Everything's churning around me. I'm drifting around. I'm swept along by outside forces. You're all over the map, and that feeling out of Number four, fourth thing, Feeling overwhelmed can I was engulfed, Jonah that overwhelmed me. I'm engulfed. That means I'm helpless to change it. I'm engulfed, it's so powerful, Number five, feeling rejected or lonely. Either these could cause feeling rejected or feeling, that's the real cause of the hopelessness, not the hopelessness. He says, &quot;Then I thought &quot;from God's presence.&quot; Aloneness can cause hopelessness. Jonah's saying, &quot;I feel like I feel rejected. I feel on my own. I feel alone. That can cause hopelessness in your life. Number six, feeling remorse and regret. You can use this checklist with friends. When you're helping them what's making them feel so bad. Feeling remorse or regret. Jonah says, &quot;And I'll never get to see &quot;Your Holy Temple again. He's filled with remorse. He's filled with regret. He knows the problem is his own fault. He was running from God. You can run from God but because you can run but you can't hide. On here on the screen, &quot;My heart is breaking as I That's a cause for hopelessness. &quot;My heart is breaking for I I feel remorse, I feel regret. I may feel guilt, because it was so good but I ran from God. I ran from God. And my heart's breaking as I Number seven, big cause of hopelessness, feeling: crushing fear. Feeling: crushing fear. Jonah says, I was scared to death. I was afraid. I was afraid I was drowning and seaweed wrapped all around my head. Circle that word choking. Did you know that the word comes from the Old English word worgen. You know what worgen means? To choke, to strangle. Worry has a strangling, It can choke the life, can choke the life out of you. They can choke the hope out of you. Feeling: crushing fear. And the eighth thing he says &quot;I was feeling trapped. &quot;I felt locked in a prison forever.&quot; Other translation says, &quot;and somebody had thrown away the key.&quot; Now, as we go through that list, are you feeling any of these right now? Oh, I'm in over my head. I've hit bottom, feel out of control, feel powerless, feel overwhelmed, feel lonely, feel rejected, feel crushing, feel trapped. Only when you name what you're feeling, only when you identify what you're feeling can you actually pray But once you know what's the then you can go to the next step. Number four, here's number Now you can say, God, I'm God, I'm feeling regret. I'm feeling remorse. God, I'm feelin' fear. God, I'm feelin' trapped. Any of these things we just listed, you talk to God specifically Be specific. Jonah 2:2, the second part, he says, &quot;From the deep, from deep &quot;I asked for help and Now, that deep on the world that maybe he eventually died in that fish and was resurrected. We don't know, that's just a guess. Psalm 50:15, God says, &quot;Call &quot;and I will save you So once I know what's the source, I've named what I'm really feelin'. I just have this vague feeling bad. I know what's causing. I know the thorn. Then I begin to pray specifically. Now here's the key to asking for help. I want you to write this down. Pray the word of God. Write this down. Pray the word of God. What do I mean by that? I mean, take Scripture This is what Jonah did to get his miracle. Jonah clearly is well-versed in the Bible, because in this very short prayer, he prays eight different Scriptures. Everything he said is a quote from Psalms. He's eight times he quotes Psalms. He's just quoting what about in the Bible. Now, it's a whole lot better God loves to hear His You say, &quot;Well, what should I pray?&quot; Write these down, three Pray the complaints to God. Pray the complaints of the Bible to God. Everything Jonah just prayed is actually in the Book of Psalms. He's just sayin', &quot;I felt He's quoting David. You wouldn't know that but you pray the complaints to God. So when you read one of or chapters or Psalms, you can go, &quot;God, this is my prayer.&quot; And you pray to God. God, I am angry with You right now. You pray the complaints to God. Laments. As I said, they're in they're in Lamentations, Number two, pray the truth about God. That's the second thing. Pray the complaints of God, pray the truth of God, about God. God, You're a good God. God, You're a gracious God. God, You're a just God. God, You're a fair God. You pray what the Bible says God, here's my complaints. They're in the Bible. Here's what the Bible says about You, that's in the Bible. And then the third thing, God, You promised to do this, now keep Your word. I can't tell you how many times in prayers have I said, &quot;God, I need &quot;God, I need You to do what You have promised right here, for I've got it memorized. You have promised to do this. God, I need You to keep Your word. Pray the complaints of the Bible, pray the truths of the Bible, and pray the promises of the Bible. Number five, fifth thing you do, focus on the goodness of God to me. When everything looks dark, there's a fog, it's shrouded. I can't see the future, it's pitch black. There's no light at the end of the tunnel. I focus on the goodness of God to me. And what I'm gonna have to mentally shift my I'm gonna have to choose to stop thinking about the things that are and I'm gonna have to of my mind and start that I can be, I know for sure the goodness of God. How He's been good to me in the past, how He's promised to be and on in that. In verse seven Jonah says this, &quot;When I had lost all hope,&quot; some of you listening, on Daily Hope right now &quot;When I had lost all &quot;once more to the Lord.&quot; Friends, that's the answer &quot;When I had lost all hope, &quot;I turned my thoughts I turned back to the goodness of God, and the greatness of God, and the love of God, and the fairness and the justice of God, and the kindness of God. &quot;I turned my thoughts &quot;And my earnest prayer went out He's talking about heaven. Now, you know, the Bible it's written in Hebrew but the Greek word for turning your thoughts You know what that word is? It's the word for repent. Repentance simply means That's all it means. Repentance does not mean repentance means change your mind. Turn your thoughts. Think about it in a different way. Look at life from God's viewpoint instead of my own viewpoint. Look at the goodness of God, I turn my thoughts, metanoia. I repent. When you feel hopeless, you need to change the You need to change your focus. You look at your problems, You look within, you'll be depressed. You look at Christ, you'll be at rest. It all depends on what you're looking at. You look at the world, Look around you, you'll be distressed. You look within, you'll be depressed. You look at Christ, you'll be at rest. All depends on what you're focused on. You change the channel. When I had lost all hope, I turn my thoughts once more to the Lord. What a beautiful verse. You need to memorize that verse. You need to take it home riding on a cart and you need to know Jonah 2:7 by heart. Everybody who's listening should memorize that verse because one day you're gonna be driving a and you think this is the end. And you'll say, &quot;And &quot;I once again turned my And that verse will be there for you. It can't help you if you The Bible has all of the things to get rid of your hopelessness. You just don't know where they are. And if you poured over he knew the Psalms so well he can quote eight and he's quoting the goodness of God, and he's quoting the complaints of David, and he's quoting the promises Can you do that? That's God's way of getting You need to start instead of thinking about your worries. If you're thinkin' about your worries, it's just gonna be swirling If you're thinking about God's word, it's gonna be goin' up, up, up, up. Look up when you hit bottom. Now, one of the Psalms that is actually Psalm 27. Look up here on the screen. Jonah says, &quot;I would have &quot;unless I had believed that &quot;of the Lord.&quot; I would have been in despair unless I had believed. I'm gonna focus on the goodness of God. God's goodness to me. When I lost all hope, I turn God, You're a good God. This is not a good I recognize it, it's my fault. I'm here because I was running from You. It's my sin that caused I know it, but you're still a good God even when I'm not good. And I will turn my thoughts to the Lord. &quot;I would have despaired unless &quot;the goodness of the Lord.&quot; You know this verse that I just read you. You just know it in the We sing it all the time. Look at up here on the screen. Here's the same verse. &quot;The Lord is my light and &quot;The Lord is the stronghold of my life, &quot;of whom shall I be afraid?&quot; &quot;I will remain,&quot; this is verse 13, &quot;I will remain confident of this: &quot;I will see the goodness of the Lord &quot;in the land of the living.&quot; He was anywhere but the land of the living when he's prayin' that prayer. I remember quoting that verse standing out in front of my son's home lost his battle with mental It was the worst day of my life. And I remember saying, &quot;The - [Woman] Amen. - [Man] Come on, come on. - Whom shall I fear? Whom shall I be afraid? - Yes! - I will remain confident of this. (congregation applauds) I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. - Yeah! - [Man] Thank you, Lord! - He will not return to me, but I will return to Him one day. Regardless of what you're going through, God's purpose, God's grace, is greater than the problem you I will remain confident of this. When I had lost all hope, I once again turn my thoughts to the Lord. As I said earlier, you need Even when the problem is your fault, it was Jonah's fault. He got himself into that mess. That didn't stop the grace of God. Now there are two more, when you're feelin' hopeless. Number six: reject false fixes. Reject false fixes, the solutions, and accept God's grace. Reject false fixes and accept God's grace. Now, we've all seen people in big trouble who turn to God only as a last resort. They try literally everything before they'll finally, And they will try some of the stupidest, dumbest, most worthless when they're in deep trouble. Instead of turning to God's grace, they turn to everything but God. Their marriage is falling apart, their career is falling apart, their body may be falling apart, their reputation is and they're looking at everything else. Reject false fixes. Last summer I took my family We went to Banff. I'm kind of a rock and I love lookin' at God's and I went into one of His great beautiful rock stores up there, but there was one section of quartz crystals in it for healing, and they were named. So like, if you got a poor sex (congregation laughs) If you're bald, going bald, If you got acid indigestion, And if you're depress, you need to put this crystal in your room. How stupid can people be, (congregation laughs) but they're making a Now, I like crystals, but they're not gonna (congregation laughs) Jonah 2:8, here's the &quot;Those who look to worthless idols &quot;forfeit the grace that could be theirs.&quot; Jonah knows it's his own fault, but he knows God is still a gracious God even though it's his fault, he caused all this problem. So those who look to worthless idols forfeit the grace that could be theirs. Now today, we don't carve idols anymore. Little idols, we'll We all have idols, ours Some people idolize their car. Some people idolize their home. Some people idolize their front lawn. Some people idolize the clothes they wear. We idolize fame today. We idolize fortune and wealth today. We idolize pleasure. We idolize sex as if it's the We idolize popularity. We idolize power. We idolize all kinds of things. We are just as idolatrous Our just idols look nicer. What do you idolize? Anything you think about Some people idolize their job. That's what they're living for. The job is God. Some people idolize the next date. That's all they're thinking about. What's gonna be my next date? Some people idolize marriage. Getting married is the ultimate (congregation laughs) Anybody wanna give a (congregation laughs) It's a good thing I've been but it's not God. What do you idolize? What do you idolize? Those who look to worthless idols, you're looking for some other Instead of turning to the grace of God, you forfeit the grace of God. When I saw those crystals in that store and all the things that I thought of this verse Romans 1:25, &quot;Instead of &quot;many people choose to believe lies.&quot; They choose to believe lies. Like this crystal is &quot;Worshiping and serving created things &quot;rather than the Creator Himself.&quot; Who made those crystals? God did. - [Man] That's right. - They can't talk, they can't listen, they can't give you advice. They're idols. They can't solve your problem. People choose to believe lies. We believe lies all the time. Our culture is filled If it feels right, it must be right. That's a lie. It may feel right to you, If it feels right, it It's just not true. I am the master of my fate, that's a lie. You are not the master of your fate. That's easily disprovable. It's easily proven wrong. You didn't choose most of the major things that made you you. You didn't choose where you were born, you didn't choose when you were born, you didn't choose who your parents were, you didn't choose your race, you didn't choose your You're not the master of your fate. Most of the things that made It's a lie. It's trying to say I'm God. God is not God, I'm God. He who dies with the most (congregation laughs) He who dies with the most toys still dies. (congregation laughs) And we're not keeping count 'cause you're not taking God helps those who help That's just not true. It's not in the Bible. God helps those who trust Him, not who help themselves. If it's to be, it's up If it's to be, it's up to God. You're not God. God is God. People choose to believe lies and they forfeit the grace of God. Look in this verse on the screen. Philippians 3:3, &quot;We put no &quot;Instead, we boast about what Christ &quot;has done already for us.&quot; That's the grace of God. That's how you're gonna get Not by pulling yourself We depend on the grace of God. Jonah didn't try to save himself. When he's at the bottom of he's not going, now, can I remember my I'll hold my breath deep, and then I'll tread water until a Mediterranean cruise He's not trying to save himself. Stop trying to save yourself Jonah says this. Jonah 2:6, &quot;You, O Lord, saved me &quot;and You brought my life That's a euphemism for death. You brought my life back up. I was dying. He may have died. I was dying. Now here's the seventh thing you do when life seems hopeless, number seven. Do what Jonah did. Express gratitude to God in advance. Express gratitude to God in advance before you're out of the situation, while you're in the belly of the fish, while you're at rock bottom, while things are swirling around. Now, I need to explain the difference between gratitude before If I wait until after to thank Him, that's gratitude. That's thankfulness. Thank You, God, for solving If I thank God in advance before the problem has Does that make sense? I am in faith saying for solving this problem, If I wait till after God it's just gratitude. It's thanksgiving. That's a good thing. But if I thank God in advance, Thank You, God, for solving this problem. While I'm depressed, I don't feel like the problem is solved, but I'm thanking You in advance. That's faith, and God always, How do I show gratitude to God in advance? Well, notice, three ways. Jonah did three things and these are the three when you are feeling hopeless, showing gratitude to God in advance. Verse nine, Jonah says, &quot;I will &quot;and I will sacrifice to You &quot;and I will do what I have &quot;Because salvation comes from the Lord.&quot; Now notice, he says, &quot;I This is in advance. He's promising, he's vowing. I will do this, I will He's doing it in advance. He's not waiting till the Now, write these down. Here are the three ways to God in advance. Number one, through singing. Through singing. I will sing a song of thanksgiving. Some of you don't think It is. I don't have time to go in it. It's good for your health, Study psychological studies, Now, I see you at this. How many think you're too cool (congregation laughs) Everybody else is singing, (congregation laughs) I'm too cool, or some of you just think, you don't know my voice, Rick. I can't sing. The Bible doesn't say you It says make a joyful noise. Even pigs can do that (congregation laughs) That's a joyful noise, okay? And in a crowd this size, You're always behind a few bars and never have the right key, (congregation laughs) but it's still a joyful noise, okay? I'm not talking about the kind, your voice may need to be cultivated. It is plowed under. I mean, you couldn't carry but you need to learn to sing to God. And you sing to God in &quot;I will remain confident of this. &quot;I will see the goodness of the Lord &quot;in the land of the living. &quot;I will remain. &quot;The Lord is my light and salvation. &quot;Whom will I fear? &quot;Who will I be afraid?&quot; You need to sing that. You need to sing every song every week. It's thanking God in advance. It's good for your health. Number two, second way, he says, &quot;Through giving back to God.&quot; Through giving back to God. He says, &quot;I will sacrifice to You. &quot;I'm not only to sing to you, Do you give any of the income that God has given to you back to Him in recognition that it all came from Him in the first place? That's a sacrifice. I'm gonna give an offering. I'm gonna sacrifice giving back to God. Number three, through Through recommitting to my mission. He says, &quot;I will do, God, And You said go and I said I am recommitting to my mission. I will do what You promised me to do. You see, Jonah messed up royally and we've all done that too. We're all Jonahs. We're all Jonahs. We've all messed up royally, but that does not stop God still had a life mission for Jonah even though he had rejected to exactly go the opposite direction. Look at this one verse, Romans 11:29. &quot;For God's gifts,&quot; His gift to you. The gifts He's given to you. Your gifted, you're God's gift and His call. God has a calling on your life. He has a life mission for you. God's gifts and His call are irrevocable! Irrevocable. It's still in force in your life. I don't care what you've done. I don't care how old you are. You may have missed God's It's still in force. Would you write this down? God has no plan B for my life. God has no plan B for my life, but Rick, you don't know what's happened. You don't know my failure. God has no plan B. You don't know about the affair I had. God has no plan B. But you don't know about my divorce. God has no plan B. But you don't know about my bankruptcy. God has no plan B. But you don't know about where I fell flat on my face. God has no plan B for your life. God's mission in your (congregation applauds) You say, &quot;But I've only Then you better use those three years. You may have sucked your entire life. God says, &quot;There's no plan B. &quot;I didn't pull back the mission &quot;because Jonah went the exact opposite way &quot;for most of his life.&quot; No, God says, &quot;It's still in force.&quot; The gifts that God has given even with all your mistakes. And the calling God has on your life, He's never pulled back. It is irrevocable. - [Woman] Yes, hallelujah! (congregation applauds) - I've only got a little time left. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I don't care how old you are and I don't care what you've done. God's gift and call in You better get at it whatever Now, when did Jonah decide to do these three After he's out on dry land? No, while he's still in the situation. While he's still feeling hopeless. Not after his ordeal is over. This is how he gets out of the ordeal. And when he does these three things, I will, I will, and I will, when he does these three things. Here's the last verse &quot;So the Lord ordered a &quot;to vomit Jonah onto a beach.&quot; Can you imagine if you were (congregation laughs) What a freaky thing that would be. Here comes the big fish, spits out a man. He comes out. The stomach acids in the fish has probably bleached him albino. (congregation laughs) He's got fish vomit and seaweed and he probably hit the (congregation laughs) I don't think he took his time skipping in the fields No, he hits the ground running because God loves to give a second chance, and a third, and a fourth, We're gonna look at that next week. God loves to give a second chance. Jonah chapter one, we see Jonah chapter two, we see Jonah Jonah chapter three, we're gonna and that's where it gets exciting. Where are you? Let's bow our heads. Father, there are people who are feeling hopeless. There are some people and they know it. I'm in deep kimchi deep I'm in deep. I'm in over my head. And some feel they've hit bottom. Help them to look up. There're some here who who feel powerless to change anything. And many who are listening right now in our campuses or in Daily and there are others who feel rejected, and there's some who just feel lonely. I feel alone. And there are others remorse, maybe guilt and some are feeling and worry, choked. And I'm sure a lot of people feel trapped. Trapped in a job, trapped in a relationship can't get out of. Trapped in a habit, trapped in a memory. Help them to do what Jonah Help them to pray with passion, not fake, phony, perfunctory Help them to pray with passion. Help them to pray persistently. And help them to pray The complaints, the truths, the promises. Now you pray. Say in your heart, God, a little helpless or hopeless. I'm feeling a little helpless or hopeless, so I'm looking to You. I wanna turn my thoughts to You and focus on Your You love me. Say that in your heart, You love me. You really love me. You will never stop loving me. You have always loved me. Help me to never forget that or doubt that even when I feel swallowed Father, I wanna reject and human fixes to my problems and I wanna depend on Your grace instead. And so in faith in the middle of my storm, regardless of how I'm feeling right now, I'm gonna thank You in And I wanna express my trust by singing, by giving an offering, by recommitting to whatever Thank You that you are Thank You that You have And thank You that You will Jesus Christ, I want You to Come in and do some house Change my values and my priorities. I wanna become a person of love loving You and loving others. And I ask You to change me and save me. In Your name, I pray, Amen. God bless you, everybody.