Have you heard the term Zuckaissance? Uh. No, what is- You haven't heard that? It's Zuck's renaissance. Huh. What is this? You know, you've got this new look, the chains, the shearling jacket. Everything you do seems to become a meme. At least make them good memes. Right, well, it seems on the joke more. And I think as I've gotten older, I've just like, &quot;All right, whatever. It doesn't matter,&quot; right? It's like, just kind of try to be myself as much as I feel comfortable being. Woohoo! Mark Zuckerberg, the face of Facebook, has been under the bright on the offensive, buying and the defensive, battling a never-ending about the social, political, of his expanding empire. Lately, though, Zuckerberg and his company. Meta's latest push is a in contrast to closed-source competitors like OpenAI and Google. Zuckerberg predicts his will have a profound impact on the progress of technology, business, and maybe the world. I've come to Meta HQ to get and the AI future he So, I found an article going back to 2003 where you were talking about open source. Okay. Really? So, you've been thinking Well, yeah. It's a big I mean, you wouldn't have been able to build the early version You know, I was a student. I didn't have access to a lot of capital. There's the whole kind of hacker mentality of you, like, just take the code, use it for the thing that you need to. It's more cost efficient. And I mean, that's how you in a dorm room. Some people see you as of open source today. You're laughing. Well, I don't know why. I mean, I actually think, You understand the word unlikely. Yeah. We've actually, at Meta, have of open source for a while and it's been a really So, dating back to how how we design our data centers, we have this whole Open Compute Project that kinda standardized a lot of the infrastructure And that's gonna happen with AI too. You're really putting by open sourcing your AI in this attempt to build How much of this is a strategic way to control or own the A lot of how we've grown up over the last 10 or 15 years was building our apps that our competitors controlled. So, it's somewhat soul crushing to, like, go and build something that you think is gonna be good and then just get told by because they want to, because they view us as competitive. You know, we're a big enough company now that one of the things that I've resolved is that for the next I want us to build and have more control over the next set of platforms So, I think AI is a critical one, and I think augmented and virtual reality is another critical one. It's kind of the way that we can control and make sure that we is by building it and having but it actually gets stronger and have the ecosystem around it. You're continuing to improve Meta AI across all of your products, but also as a standalone chatbot. Why should we use Meta over ChatGPT? Well, there's a bunch of You know, one of the things is the ability to just, You're typing something in real time, I do this with my daughters all the time, and as you're kind of typing and entering the query, it's just generating the images It's just really cool. My goal for the Meta AI launch, which, I mean, it's only really, at this point, was to, by the end of the year, have Meta AI be the most used and I think we're basically I mean, there's hundreds who are using it. Yeah, and I think we're gonna be there before the end of the year. So, you're releasing Llama 3.1, this family of models big and small, including the biggest 405 billion parameters. What does that jump unlock? I actually think the main especially because it's open source, is use it as a teacher that they use in different applications. If you just think about, like, or all the enterprises or even governments that are they probably all need to, at some level, build custom models And it's really hard to do that with closed systems out there, whether that's Open AI or Gemini, Google's thing or whatever. And this is like, gets of our philosophy is we don't believe there's to rule them all. Our vision is that there's or just billions of So, not one God, but many, is that the way to think about it? Well, I don't think they're gonna be Gods, but I do think that to some degree, if you're like an organization, you think you're gonna create, like, this one super intelligence, it does have this feel to me of, like, people trying to create a God. And that's just, I find that both the wrong way to look at it, but just also very unappealing. You know, there's almost on our platforms. They all are trying to People wanna interact with them. There aren't enough hours in the day. Like, I wanna make it so can easily train, like, an that they can, like, they So, it's almost like a that they're putting out that allows their community but also gives them control over how that interaction happens. And I think that that's gonna be great and there's gonna be millions or, you know, eventually So, let's get into the broader strategy and how this is all going to work. Like, will we have with AI-generated captions and Like- all of it. Do you wanna create the first Well, I think that that but, you know, actually one of the most interesting use cases that people have for Meta AI today, it's like in the top four use cases, is role playing difficult that they're gonna have. So, whether it's in a like, okay, you wanna ask or, like, I'm having with my girlfriend or my friend. Like- this conversation with you today. I mean, hopefully it's not- No, it's fine. it's not stressful for you, but- But, like, it's a clear social tool where there's no judgment, right? The AI isn't sitting there, there's no, like, social But what evidence do you have that people wanna live and socialize with avatars, or that it's actually good for us? Well, I think that people wanna connect with each other, right? I actually think, like, is generally noise. But all the technology in a better and better way. When I got started with And then this whole, there's been this whole kind of, like, technological evolution where we got smartphones that we could primarily be taking photos and then the mobile networks got good, so then you could be kinda sharing videos and video's a lot richer and consuming video is I just don't think that's I think it gets more immersive. You renamed your company Meta. You're still pouring billions Are we as far along as you know, a few years down the line? Are there any lessons in Well, a lot of the reason why I did that is because I think we were as just this, like, The Metaverse thing was always gonna be a I think some things have Some have gone slower. The glasses I think is of something that is going better. They're stylish. They're good glasses. It's a great form factor for AI. We didn't know that AI when we started working on that project, or I mean, we thought like, 10 years from now, but if you asked me five years ago, I would've guessed that not the other direction. So, some of this is just about to ride the different Sequoia calls AI the There's all this investment in chips and the infrastructure but when does it start paying off? Like, is it a bubble? And if not, like, when do I think bubbles are interesting because a lot of the bubbles that were very valuable over time and it's just more of like you're asking, right? Even the dot com bubble, you know, it's like and it ended up being super valuable, but it just wasn't as valuable So, is that gonna happen I mean, it's hard to in the next few years. I think AI is gonna be very fundamental. I think that there's a meaningful chance that a lot of the companies and that you look back and you're like, &quot;Oh, we maybe all spent some number of billions of But on the flip side, I actually think all the are making a rational decision because the downside of being behind is that you're out of position for, like, the most important technology for the next 10 to 15 years. You said your goal is getting to artificial Yeah. How do you define AGI, and do you get there first? well, it's a good question. We're basically already and our goal is to with all the others on that. So, I don't know. I mean, do we get to AGI first? I mean, I think that there'll between now and then. It's hard to just predict Then you get to the more which is like, what is it? I don't know that there's, like, one 'cause I think intelligence is, it's multi-variate, right? It's not like there's one number So, there's probably a specific aspect of intelligence or modality which is like reading and that's something that I care about. So, I think we'll probably try to build that in at some point. You know, what we're trying to help enable the whole community to do is create all these different AIs for all these things And I don't know, that's this ends up being a This place is so peaceful. Yeah, I mean, we just Is this like your escape, your from your virtual world- And your virtual world? I don't know. I like being in Palo but it's just kind of nice to spend time up here over the summer and, you know, get the and teach them some different sports and I think that that's all nice. What should kids be studying these days? I think the most important thing is just, like, learning and learning values when you're young. Now, one of our daughters I mean, she wrote this outline for a novel that she wanted to write and now it's like 40 pages in and, you know, we sit and, you know, when we hang out with her, we'll use Meta AI to generate the images. Like, it's about mermaid and it's, yeah. who would like to read that. Yeah, no, I think it's, you know, it's probably gonna be a banger. I mean, this is somewhat that I have too. You know, if people have and do one thing really well, then they've probably gained experience in, like, the art of learning something and taking it to an excellent level, which is generally pretty You go all in on everything How do you make time for it all, the sports, the side quest, the super engaged CEO, to being a dad? I actually think having balance between the different things that you do helps make you do all the things better. I think I'm a pretty intense person and- Just kind of. I try to have some mercy and not focus too much energy 'cause, you know, I wanna make sure that people have the flexibility and space to go do their thing. So, yeah, no, I think that you know, an interesting and learning, is like you want to have Got it? Nice, Mark. I know you've always and you learned to speak Mandarin and what do you know about I don't personally know a ton. There's this question which kind of AI competition with China? And there's one strain &quot;Okay, well, we need to, And I just happen to think because the US thrives and decentralized innovation. I mean, that's the way our economy works. That's, like, how we build awesome stuff. But I think the leading companies should work with the US government and make sure that our and things like that have sort of a perpetual on the leading technology in the world. So, we win the AI wars this way. I think there, there's the question of what can you hope to achieve? If you're trying to say, to be five or 10 years ahead of China?&quot; I just don't know if So, I'm not sure if you can maintain that. But what I do think is a reasonable goal is maintaining a perpetual, to, you know, eight-month lead by making sure that the American companies and the American folks working on this continue producing the best AI systems. And I think if the US can that's just a very big advantage. There are obviously a lot of players. What do you make of Sam He deserves a lot of credit for how that organization has developed. Also, having gotten a lot I think it's like, look, for the first time, you don't handle it, you know, as perfectly as you would like. But I think he's handling I think he's doing better than I did. And it's a somewhat ironic thing to have an organization but is sort of the leader in And it's not necessarily bad, but it's kind of a little funny. Facebook and you have been Whether you agree or not, why Well, it's a loaded question. We have gotten blamed for a lot of things. And I mean, look, I take our role in all this stuff seriously and I think we've tried to handle all this as well as possible. I'm not sure that it's all been fair, but, like, I'd like to think that we're an important So, I think the scrutiny One of the defining is that anyone can scrutinize the work. And because of that, I think to make sure that the quality of the work that you're doing I wanna talk about the Okay. Facebook has been a flashpoint in many elections around the world and you personally have been called out most recently by former President Trump. This is a big election. What do you think is at stake? Well, I mean, look, it's and it'll be a historic election. The main thing that I hear from people is that they actually wanna on our services because they come to our So, you know, that's what we're gonna do. We give people control over this, but we're generally trying to recommend less political content. So, I think you're gonna see our services play less of a role in this election than they have in the past. I've done some stuff I'm not planning on doing that this time, and that includes, you know, not endorsing either of the candidates. Now, look, I mean, there's obviously a lot of crazy stuff going on in the world. I mean, seeing Donald Trump get up after getting shot in the face and pump his fist in the is one of the most badass things But, look, I mean, it's, you know, as, and I think, look, at some it's, like, hard to not about that spirit and that fight and I think that's why a But I view our role here is to make it so that everyone on this stuff and I think that that's that we can play. We're facing a crisis in mental health, especially among teenagers. The Surgeon General is now calling for a warning label on social media, saying that it's partially to blame. With everything that you know now, does he have a point? There's clearly an issue with mental health in the country. So, I think that's like And for kids and teens, and I think the focus on that is right. You know, I have three young girls and being a parent is hard and, like, you care, like, you just wanna make sure that they have, like, good lives. And so, like, from that perspective, what I aim for us to do is build our services in a way giving them the controls that they need to basically oversee how the What the data says today from what the basic meme I think a lot of people kind of act as if there's been this proven and I just don't think that the It might be that kind of If you're getting kind of, if you're getting notified for and it's, like, preventing I mean, that is different But, look, I mean, here across society and we want to make sure we're Mm-hm. You're doing all these things but you also love so many things about the real world. How do you wrestle with Well, I don't know that There's, like, a bunch of who think, like, &quot;Oh, we'll our consciousness and intelligence and, like, upload it to the cloud,&quot; and I'm like, &quot;That just I mean, to me it's like, like, I think part of is you, like, are active Like, we're not just minds, right? Like, I think the kind of the energy and, like, the love and all those things are, like, probably as foundational to what makes you a person. You're gonna teach me how to wake surf. I heard you're a surfer No, no, no, I'm from Hawaii Great. Okay. Yeah, Priscilla's quite good. I'm really glad Priscilla's here because I hear she puts you in your place. Yeah. Oh, yeah, a little, a little. Look, it's good. It's good. What's Mark's best dad joke? So, like, sometimes when Mark he'll just say like, &quot;Not my best work. Yeah. That's just like a thing he says. No, when I'm braiding You braid hair? and I'm like, &quot;Oh, you know,&quot; it's like, &quot;I think I did well tonight,&quot; or it's like, &quot;Oh, this But now the kids will grade him and go- Yeah, so it's like- What's it been like for you being in a relationship with I think being in nature and, like, doing sports especially for Mark. Mark has so much energy. He needs to burn off How do you keep up? I mean, Well, I don't. It's fine. He can do his own thing. Well, Mark's supposed to teach me, so I said that- How successful I am depends on how good of a teacher he is. So, a surf wave, the waves This is coming a little bit from the side. So, the force, it kind of Okay. to the wave more than you Don't worry about that part. Yeah, it'll actually, Your body will know what to do once you get up. That's our coaching. sports motto. Your body knows what to do. All right, I'm ready to rip. Ready to rock. Let the board flip. Yeah, oh, she's so close! She'll get there. This is the part when people are like, &quot;Are you sure this sport is fun?&quot; I mean, she's managing that. She's fine. That's 30 seconds. I mean, Alohi, are you doing than you are for us? Your body knows what to do, Mark. Yeah, my body does know what to do. All right, go for it. Makes it look so easy. Woohoo! Woo! Yeah, there you go. What do I do now? Now point the nose in here. Oh. You've been at this for 20 years. How long do you wanna keep doing this? Like, you have all this. Surfing is fun. Fighting is fun. Building things is really fun. At this point, you know, I kind of think about what I'm building in terms of like, you know, I think, like, AI is to fully materialize as will all the work in the next computing And then my guess is that the next set of things will emerge. With tech in general, bigger picture, it almost seems like we're running this massive experiment on ourselves. Like, how does it all end? I mean, I'm not sure that I just think that there's So, you know, I know that who are concerned, like, is AI going to, you from being creative or things like that? I think it's gonna be the opposite. You know, when I was getting you know, I needed to know in order to be able to And in the future, you You might just be able to, what you're trying to build and an AI system will be able and all of that. Obviously there's all these challenges that we'll need to navigate along the way. You know, stuff changes and that raises new challenges. But I'm pretty optimistic about So, I have an idea I brought you some sunscreen. This is, like, about the amount So, I appreciate that.