Welcome to the first Mathologer video of the year. Today it's about something very serious and so I'm wearing a totally right? Me too, except for this one video infamous identity 1+2+3+...=-1/12 using some simple algebra that able to follow. Since this video was people have watched it and more than pretty much every single statement made mean wrong in capital letters. In mathematics will confirm 1+2+3+... sums to exactly what common sense suggests it should namely plus infinity. 1st of April. Also, as we all know, the smart guys, in this case university maths and who are definitely not out to horribly wrong and what did they really some genuinely deep an amazing number -1/12 but in the effort to simple terms they just went overboard not just really simple but also really comment sections of all maths YouTubers two plus three comments that are a mathematical public relations it's a it's a good idea to have another really calculation step by step, state clearly how to reconnect it to the genuine maths mind originally. Lots of amazing summation methods for divergent series, sister of the Zeta function, the gist of some more of Euler's mathemagical tricks etc. Now, I've tried to make this whole thing self-contained. So you don't have to have one plus two plus three from over a year one. Okay, let's get going. So that we are the whole Numberphile calculation. infinite series 1 + 2 + 3+... S. As first calculate the sums of these other and 1-2+3-4+... Adding up the terms of the first series, we get the partial sums 1, 1 minus 1 plus 1 minus 1 is 0 and so 0 and 1 and so the Numberphile guys series is CLEARLY the average of 1 and 0 to that. They also mention that there also get to that. Ok, second sum. Here they you double this sum. So 2 times S2 is itself but now before adding the two series one term to the right. Now 1 plus minus 2 is 1, minus 4 plus 3 is minus 1, already looked at which, remember, is Second sum done, great. Now for last sum, that's the one we're really after. Here the Numberphile guys start by subtracting S2, the minus 1 is 0, 2 minus minus 2 is plus 4, 3 The zeros don't matter so let's get rid the yellow that's our 1+2+3+... usual magic here, and we get -1/12. But, not so fast! !ll this is really particular these three identities are exam at any university on Earth you're infinite series and you give the you will receive exactly 0 marks for that in mathematics we have a precise infinite series. Wherever you see this definition applies unless there are flashing neon lights. Alright, now the such disclaimers and so they too should think I can agree with that. OK, answers that will get you full marks on an infinite series you calculate the just like the Numberphile guys did at of partial sums levels off to a finite or if it explodes to plus infinity, or if infinity, then this limit is the sum exists, then the infinite series does not definition. So for the first Numberphile alternates between 0 and 1 and therefore this infinite series does not have a sum, the correct answer for your maths exam. infinite series? Hmm, well, in the case of explode to plus infinity and so the sum is infinity. For the infinite series in size, but neither just to infinity or series also does not have a sum. So these In many ways the most important sum which have not featured here yet. So, standard example, an infinite geometric Now here the partial sums exhibit a clearly they converge to 1. (Marty) Yeah, I think this one is clear. (Mathologer) This one is clear and so the sum of this infinite series is 1. Oh, before I forget, those convergent series and all the other divergent series. Keeping this in mind Numberphile calculation. Here's the whole of the writing on the brown paper in the presented by Numberphile all this is IS. NOT. MATHEMATICS. Don't use it, hell. Having said that there should be some method to this madness, right? then it's clear that the sums you see sums, as about six million people have let's start by doing something that may glance, just for fun, and in denial of those three Numberphile series were finite sum. Then all, ALL highlighted the termwise adding and subtracting of and even the shifting to the right view with suspicion. Why would all these convergent series? Because summation of termwise addition and subtraction, and are differences between finite and series sometimes don't have a sum rearrangement of the terms can change etc. On the other hand, the sums of lot of the properties of finite sums and them so useful. Here the most important two convergent infinite series, okay&lt; two series termwise you get a new to prove that this new infinite series is equal to A plus B, of course. And the pluses with minuses. So termwise addition summing convergent series. That's terms of a convergent series with sum A by a number, say five, gives a new infinite series. Again series is convergent and that its sum multiplication by numbers is also infinite series. That's our second the terms of a convergent series with a zero as the first term to our series, still convergent and its sum is the same works the opposite way. Removing a zero sum. Okay, so that's property three. Now we can use these three properties to build valid arguments, very much like in the is the convergent series that I showed Remember its sum is 1. Now let's say we this series is convergent or not. Then we well we don't know whether it's and it's sum is M (M for mystery number :) then because of the number multiplication property we get that half M is equal to 1/4 times 1/2 which is equal to 1/8 and 1/2 M is also equal to this guy here addition and subtraction property we are video. So, on the left side we get M right side we've got 1/2 minus zero of goes away. In total we get M mystery series is convergent with sum M that the only value that M can possibly M is 1? No, and this is very important. assumption, to be able to conclude that still have to somehow show that the convergent. Hmm so this sort of argument it does not get you all the way. Anyway this sort of reasoning on the first is NOT convergent. Well, so just for kicks, series was actually convergent with the shift property, S1 would also be because of the addition property, we can 2 S1 and then we add termwise on the else cancels out as you can see. And so we Numberphile said S1 should be. So the some ways this line of reasoning would their argument than just plucking the have another look at the Numberphile did as the first step to justify why S1 Numberphile argument. Let's round it off just a moment ago. Here we go. whole thing to make it into a valid monstrous IF, these three infinite series would be valid and the sums of these three numbers given by Numberphile. Great, but this valid argument is false, that the So, yes, this argument is valid in itself, but what good is it if the assumption is starts Since no divergent series has a finite What if it was possible to convergent series, what if it was super sum should have three key anything so the super sum of a its normal sum, right? Then all divergent with finite values. And then the last like normal summing is consistent with super sum extension of the standard the extension of the real numbers to the properties for a smaller world remaining time all sorts of new magic appearing in consistency made the argument over there expect the argument to still be valid if we with respect to super summing. Even have a super sum, we could get rid of the could be saved by just saying that we old summing. What a lovely dream :) (Marty) It's time to wake up! (Mathologer) Yes, sadly. Well, anyway, those of you who watched my last video on this topic know that there a sum to some :) divergent series but not two guys over there. To show how super annoying divergent series. Basically and then averaging out any bouncing partial sums. We start by calculating the sequence converges, then our super sum needed. However if the sequence of case of this infinite series, then we sequence out of the first. The Nth term of the first N terms of the first for the first term of the new sequence average of 1 is just 1. Ok, then the 1 and 0 and 1 is 2/3, etc. Now, every second number here is 1/2 and the remaining numbers also converge to 1/2 and this converges to 1/2. And that means that our is also the number that Numberphile gets. second sequence may not converge in again by averaging the second sequence. generate a fourth, then a fifth, etc. converges, the infinite series under as super sum. For example, in the case of and second sequences diverge but the which then is our super sum. This is also is looking good. Until now, now we have to infinite series none of the associative and so these series don't have a plus 3 and so on all the partial sums over positive numbers will always only In fact, all the associated sequences of infinity and so 1 + 2 + 3 etc definitely let alone anything finite and negative Numberphile calculation, here's the part super sums instead of regular sums. super sum we still need the big IF to itself not too bad, though, since the since super summing is really the most and 1/4 are the only reasonable numbers Really nice stuff I think. To recap, we infinite sums and our new super sums. Oh, literature our super sum would be called generalized Holder summation. Anyway, extensions of each other and are values to larger and larger classes of also comes at a price. The more powerful it is. What works for finite sums cannot infinite sums. I already mentioned problems with rearranging convergent example. Of course, super sums also lack normal infinite sums lack but they are infinite sums that no longer work for Yes, yes the three basic properties I've that any familiar summy property will risking zero marks (Marty): Or less! (Mathologer) Or less :) infinitely zeros has no effect same to super sums can change things infinitely many zeros into our first new series will be different from 1. Little puzzle for you: What's the new super sum? As usual, give zero problem is important. I glossed over on our discussion, but at some point in zap infinitely many zeros and this properties. Bad... The effect of losing more more general is actually something that got introduced to larger and larger numbers, then to the integers, the complex numbers and even beyond to the time you broaden your world, you lose you: Can you think of some properties larger and larger number systems? And the 1 + 2 + 3 etc series actually super manipulate this identity into a couple favourite three properties? that you can arrive at contradictory what you can come up with in this We have to get serious about the and - 1/12. So press the pause button, chocolate and let me know when you're Even at the level of super sums we are think of as a sum. After all for that is going on, the super summing is than a real summy sum, don't you think? Well it will get more extreme not only in this respect but also in terms of the maths going on with the -1/12 will already have heard of this and then really explain it using the This is the mega famous Riemann zeta variable z. Written as the infinite sum z is greater than 1. However, there is one function to an analytic function for all Formally, if you substitute z = -1 is not greater than 1, and so we really quickly get rid of their equal sign. Ok, our master villain 1 + 2 + 3 etc and the at minus 1 is equal to you guessed it - genuine, real, actual connection anybody describe this connection as a last part of the Numberphile calculation. here's a mini introduction to analytic will be a rough and ready intro which is polynomial is, right? One of these guys: or a quadratic function or a cubic, etc. a mystery continuous function that is not showing you the part to the left of looking at this chunk, can you continue is? Now you might be tempted to say 'Yes' but the answer is 'No'. There are infinitely many ways we could continue to the left there's another one, there's a third one, there's infinitely many different ones. Were you tricked? (Marty) No. (Mathologer) Sure you were not , but you know the game, right? Of course our initial chunk is part of a line and it's function as this same line. But we don't mystery function is linear, then your continue the function, there's only one function is linear. In fact, the same is a polynomial. Just by looking at the my polynomial is linear and exactly generalize this simple observation a actually. Here we go. part of a parabola, or if you like a you that my mystery function is a be exactly one polynomial that continues polynomial is completely determined by stays true if we think of polynomials as you begin with a chunk of the polynomial plane. So on the left, you see the complex a complex number the plane. And so in terms of this pinned down by the values it takes on polynomial will take on all the same seems a little bit too much. most nicely behaved functions but there shares a lot of the nicest properties analytic functions. These are the complex as either regular finite polynomials or series. For example, the exponential it can be written as an infinite all our favorite functions such as the are analytic. Important for us is that function is completely pinned down by beginning chunk of an analytic function other analytic function can continue saying that analytic continuation of an In summary, though there may be many nice ad hoc ways to continue an analytic function there's just one distinguished, never to be improved way to do this, course, as I said, this is all very probably nitpick me to death in the you why we need to drag complex just run with it for today and I promise meantime you can also read up on things description. All you really have to analytic function nails down the whole dots. We have two completely different extending sums to super sums of and second for extending a chunk of an function. Combining these two extension going on with 1 + 2 + 3 + and -1/12. Okay, Notice that it's the same as the zeta It's also obviously different from the variable z. So it is actually an infinite complex number z. Let's just make a to a few prominent integer values. For our 1 minus 1 plus 1 series. Ok for x = - 1 we get 1 minus 2 plus 3 and Mathologer regulars know that for z = 1 and 2 the series are convergent. Now, in general, these series in the positive brownish half plane. The other z including 1 minus 1 plus 1 etc the two Numberphile series can be super z, for all the divergent series in this close relative of the zeta function, the Dirichlet eta function. And this function. So to start with, standard analytic function for which two infinite mathematicians will simply discount a useless artifacts. Instead they will eta function by completely different ingenious. However, they provide very little intuition and insight into what's really that the most reasonable extension of an function that is defined on part of the most reasonable way to assign generalised divergent series just feels right to me understanding of analytic continuation, great thought: we just used a generalised continuation, right? Let's turn the idea to identify candidates for a generalised what happens in the case of 1 + 2 + 3 get the zeta function when you replace pluses. Well you get part of it, the complex plane for which the infinite other z the resulting infinite series doesn't help for the white part on the eta just doesn't work for zeta. The the Numberphile pseudo proof. That's the part of the argument takes the sum S2 sum for the 1 + 2 + 3 series formally when you let z equal to -1 in the functions and actually the Numberphile of a calculation involving eta and of legality, let's unleash exactly the instead of subtracting S2 from S, let's from zeta. Ready? ... Right, take out the common factor down there. That's zeta again in the brackets. Now let's solve for zeta. There my magic again okay that's really exactly the calculation using zetas and eta instead check after substituting z = -1 this identity turns into this, and with S2 being 1/4 we get -1/12. But didn't we say that the (Marty) Yes, we did. (Mathologer) We definitely did. And it is, but some saves our zetas eta calculation from analytic continuation. Both the series every z in this brownish region. This calculation and the resulting equation bona fide mathematics. But, as well, and the same is true for the denominator. of two functions that are analytic analytic everywhere except possibly at closer look reveals that the whole except at z=1. Here comes the punchline and this punchline hinges on the chunks-pin-down-analytic-functions business that I've been going on about. You should really try to side and the right side are analytic in since the right side is analytic down-analytic-functions property, the elusive analytic continuation of the zeta really interested, the analytic this identity is a real jewel as it gives value of the Riemann zeta function, function which, remember, we defined via makes sense to use this identity as a works for all z. For example, setting and eta of zero was just the super sum of 1/2 and so zeta of 0 is equal to values for zeta. Nice. The zeroes are turns out that zetas has zeros at all -6, and so on. These are the function. I'm sure if you made it this far you've also heard of the Riemann hypothesis zeta function. It says that all other here and what's also really interesting actually don't have to super sum to blue line because just with ordinary everywhere in this part of the complex critical line. Lots and lots of other but, well, we are here to wrap up this -1/12 business. Alright, ok, let's do it. identity up there that the Numberphile definitely tempting to express his maybe like this. I've decorated the equal seems to have been the first to think In fact, in Ramanujan's notebook we can one that's in the Numberphile video. Of a monumental complicated stuff in a personal note and audience, right? What you see up there is Ramanujan summation that assigns values including the three Numberphile series. which is often overlooked is the order just adding an infinite set we are doing sorts of important implications. So, for natural numbers into an infinite series to plus infinity using standard slow, regular, erratic it diverges to of the terms in the series. The Ramanujan summy properties that we encountered aspects of naturally ordered series and the theory of divergent series in today. Check out some of the links in a lot of maths the article by Terry Tao. so called Euler-Maclaurin summation connection between sums and integrals Ramanujan's sum. Just to whet your -1/12 fact. The nth partial sum of So, if we plug in 1, 2, 3, 4 etc. for N sums 1, 3, 6, 10. Now let's replace N by x a quadratic with zeros at 0 and - 1. graph is that the signed area here is definitely no coincidence. Really amazing finally, for today (and now I go and kill myself :) and I promise the next video will be a LOT shorter.