In today's chess video, I am going to show help you win more games. You need to watch this till the end because for you all. Let's see if you can solve that. So without further ado, let's get started Hello Chess Friends, I am Jeetendra Advani. Firstly Congratulations, our Chess Talk channel I would like to thank each and every one of This wouldn't have been possible without you And In case you haven't yet subscribed, then video, right now. Okay, so the tricks I am in the Famous Budapest gambit variation. So let's get straight into it. White starts with the Queen's Pawn opening. We respond with knight to F6. White plays C4, the Indian game. And then we play pawn to e5, turning this Now from here, the most obvious move will But there is another popular move that you He is trying to expand his control of the side. In this position, our strategy would be to this weak F7 square. And It's always better, you know, to get your you can push this pawn forward to develop Anyways, now its highly likely that your opponent out his Bishop to g5. And that's exactly what you want to see because You are simply going to forget about your If your opponent tries to be greedy and he he will be shocked to see your next move - which That's check and mate in just 5 moves. Going back, even if he recognizes this checkmate threat, he is still in big trouble because at the same time, he has to save his bishop So he might come up with something like bishop back. Queen h4 check, white plays pawn to g3, which is the only legal move he has. We can then simply take this pawn with our Pawn can't take because of this pin. So all in all, you are in a very superior White's king is out in the open and you have You should easily win it from here. Now let's go back and see another cool variation. In this position, most players as white will advantage. Your strategy is going to be simple. You will keep adding attackers to this pawn he can hold on to this pawn advantage. Firstly, since he is attacking our knight, White will look to defend so he brings out Let me show you a quick trap that you can First, you can play d6, offering to trade White will most likely take this because it's a great opportunity for him to get rid off this weak doubled pawn. After white takes, you can take back with your bishop. Now in this position, most average players knight. Hence, you can expect a move like h3 or g3. If he plays anything like this, then he is Let me show you how. After h3, you will play the killer move, knight You are double attacking the queen and the But that's a blunder because after bishop queen and unfortunately for white, the king So king will take the bishop and we will simply And you should easily win it from here. Okay, Now let's go back and see another interesting variation. Now instead of playing d6, we can continue to c6. Again, this time white defends with his bishop. Now we will develop our dark squared bishop The king can't move, he obviously can't block knight or bishop, then he will lose a defender So the only option he has is to block with Knight to c3 is not such a good idea because recapture with his pawn, which will ultimately So white will have to play knight to d2. From here, we will continue attacking this to e7. A very common continuation from white would of trapping this bishop. So white will start off with pawn to a3. This is what we were looking for. From here, we can setup another deadly checkmate, For the moment, we will ignore this bishop And if white decides to take your bishop, knight to d3 will be a beautiful smothered Going back, even if white does not take your this, then you can simply take back with your Still, white cannot take your bishop because So the best move for white would be to play After this, bishop takes knight check, and And now if you look at the board, it's almost So even if white plays everything correctly, You should definitely try out this trick in fall for these traps. Do let me know in the comments how it worked Okay, so It's puzzle time. But before moving onto today's chess puzzle, this video. We are targeting 2000 likes on this video, right now. Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need I will give you a hint this time, it's a checkmate in 8 moves. If you are able to find the solution to this puzzle, then share it in the comments Whoever gives the correct answer with the comment at the top so that everyone can see All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, Don't forget to Like &amp; Subscribe to this channel. And for some interesting chess tips, tricks and follow me on Instagram. Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in