We're going down the side of the building? Yep. We're going to pull it in with &quot;Frank.&quot; Hey, what's up, guys? Welcome back to today's episode, we've got Matt from Matt's Off Road Recovery We got a hold of Matt probably a couple of months ago that this thing needed to be repainted. I was super pumped on it. I asked Matt if we could be involved We're going to do complete body and paint. We're going to get this thing After that, and we're going to make them both That's all I need. Perfect. ...dumb question. Could it be out of gas? It could be. I don't think it is. Turn it off and on, What about when you turn the key? Start it. Nothing wrong with it. I got the magic touch. I'll have to call you down We got a call. I need you down here now! Hey Hillbilly! But anyway, back to where we were. So on the inside, whatever makes sense the door panels and seats, Okay, so all of these pillars are exposed. Do you want the interior yellow or black? So either all black or all Cool. I mean, it's going to be hard to get two different Isn't it? Yeah, of course. You want it all yellow? It's named the Banana, for a reason. K, all yellow. See how these are all jagged? That's because we've bent them. So I'm getting you perfect ones And I know you're jamming it out and stuff, perfect. It needs to be like Knight Rider if you see those in real life Yeah there was like 1000 of those cars And then just be careful. I'm a weird mix of a detail nut I am a detail nut when it comes to paint especially his derby cars. Nobody. Any important stuff, Me. because I will stay up at night wondering We've never derbied against each other, not against each other, I was in cars. He would have. I need a sound bite of you, There's nothing quite like a Robby Layton engine. That's all there is to it. Well, Matt, thanks for bringing it up. Have a safe trip back. Will do. All right, guys. So Matt had to take off We're going to do a walk around. First thing's first, We're going to look at all the damage, see I don't think it's but let's take a look around We're going to start right here on the fender We got a little bit of damage The fun part about this so it's getting fixed It's looking pretty good. On the driver's side, we got a dent, so we're going to have to get get it straightened up and painted. We've got a little bit of damage here. This is part of the Golden Nugget recovery damage along with this damage right here. So we've got quite a bit of stuff we've got to get fixed up on this side. Coming around to the back, I don't know about this hatch. You can see we've got a big dent here. A lot of damage up top. Dent here. We got another dent here, dent here, I don't know if that one is even fixable. We may be calling Matt Maybe a parts Jeep. We might need a lot of stuff on this, We'll be taking that. Oh, look at that, we'll be taking that out, This quarter panel right here. It's not terrible. Then we'll do some assessing in here, try to get this straightened out On this passenger rear door, it's not too bad. Got a little dent down here on the corner like a few little scratches. But this front door, I mean, this whole thing's caved in. So we're probably going to be looking for This fender got another dent right here. We got a dent down here and some, from when Matt put these fenders on. We'll get that all cleaned up, seam sealed up nice, and get it all painted. One thing we almost missed We don't even know what to do with it. This thing has just got some waves in it The possibility may not be out of the question repairing it versus replacing Replacing it's going to be a lot of work, Coming up to this front, we've got to do some modifications Matt asked us to put a stiffener in it, So this thing will shut nice. First things first on this, and get it pressure washed. Oh man. We've got road salt and grime everywhere. We've got some Sand Hollow sand. We've got road salt, even up on the inside of the roof, I'm thinking we better try to get some of We don't want any of that electrical We've got to have a way I'll just cut holes in the floor, I've got a better idea. She was out of gas. It's getting cold. It's about to get dark. We got to hurry up and wash The Banana. Whoa. Hey, I need a new lance. New O-Ring does the trick. It's starting to ice up. I think what we'll do now and we're going K. Now, all the water can just run out. We'll let her back down. Put it inside. Pull back, that's got to go back. The wiping will eliminate the grime and then the air will dry it Once it's dry, we'll vacuum it Just about got it all dried out. It's not too bad. It's sure going to help on the prep for paint We're not going to be dealing Everything's better when you clean it. I think we're ready to start disassembling this thing. We need to get this header panel out, We need to get the headlights, marker And once you get it off, You see it right there. Matt specifically wants them put in. We have to make sure to get those put in. Once his header panel comes off, Oh yeah, once this comes off then you can get to it, okay. Got stuck in there good So I helped Matt build this. I was there with him on the last video. Time got a little bit away from him, So what I'm going to do is I'm going We're going to head over the plasma table You could do this with a hand No big deal. Cut off wheel It's not that big of a deal, we're going to head over. We're going to program We're going to weld these end caps on. so we can get this thing ready for paint. Let's take this over to the metal table. We're just going to measure this out. It's just your standard two by four square tubing, three and three quarter by one and three quarter make ourselves a little note fire this bad boy up. There's some bolts back here all along, the whole thing And it should come off We'll see. That's what they call a Christmas tree zip tie, put it around your wiring harnesses keeps your wiring harness where you want it. Now we're free. I've got it drawn up in TurboCAD. We're just going to bring it over and then take it into our Mach3 loader and we're going to burn it It's pretty simple. Nothing too crazy. So... The nice thing about this FastCut is you run it off of an Xbox remote, So you just set it wherever you want. So we're going to this is the material we're going to use. It's just some ten gauge from the local metal store. We'll set our zero point go ahead and burn this out. All right. That's how easy that was. The nice thing about Hello. I need somebody's help Got a hand right quick? Can I borrow one? Oh, thanks. There we go. These are plastic clips that have been So it's probably 20 something years old, but they're plastic clips that have been in there forever. I'm sorry, I tried my best. They are vintage. Perfect. So I made them to where Super nice. And then we'll grind that weld all down Dinner is going to bring my welder time to do some sketchy stuff. Doo doo doo doo. That's all welded up, we're going While that's just cooling down a little bit. We didn't go for super pretty. We're just trying to get So I got some some meat that I can grind off Got it all welded up. Now let's get this thing ground. I'm going to switch over from my flapper disc K, we got that all taken care of for Matt. So we'll put this aside The Banana apart slow it down, Voila! So if you take this window and You can get your bolt out For all you guys out there was an XJ's that need to take your rear windows out but if you get it over to the side, But you got to take your wing window out Got it. So next we got a door that needs to come off. One down! Right off. Yay! K, we need to back this up. Back it up, boy, back that, back it up Good. (Singing) I'm an island boy! you put it back in your box? There she blows Whoa!! Got it! i don't think that we should touch these doors, Matt. I think these doors should be auctioned Do you, by chance, have a gun right there with a tin? I will take your offer to use my gun with I really appreciate it. I got it. I got it. I got it. No, no no! No!!! Milwaukee's better than DeWalt. You keep that DeWalt on your side. I guess I started a war. Sorry DeWalt. We'll need to do a little bit of body Looks like we got a little burn through. Ugh, it's brittle and going to break, of course. If anybody has some good rubber plugs. Send them to us. My side's done. Wow, you're so amazing. 500 different tools to do two doors. I think it's time to go I'm perfect. I think he does. I'm a professional I'm a professional. OK, so we've got all four doors We've got the front header panel off. We've got the headlights out of it We've got everything so that we can start doing the body work. We're exhausted. It's time to go home. Yeah, it's getting pretty late. But we made a lot of progress on it and we'll be hitting hard in the morning So Matt's birthdays today, We're pretending like we forgot, OK next Friday, we're doing a surprise birthday. We bought him a flamethrower. Oh no way! Matt's going to come in to the sand dunes in, we're all going to roll over the hill Alright no butting! So we're in the Jeep. Let's go party. The Banana is not getting worked on. I know what you're supposed to be at work! What are your thoughts on I've about got it to the point It's going to come to your shop I got probably two solid weeks of work well, Stretch it out just a little bit. I've got a lot of work I don't want to be overlapping. K, well, it's coming your way soon, Get ready for it. Oh, no! Matt, always running out of gas. 2000 years later Well, that's been a fun party Thanks for watching. Hmm, I could fix that!