This is dendrobium orchid. an orchid that is said to be beautiful and has a gentle fragrance. They have the ability to bloom all year round and keep the flowers on the branches for a long time. If you are looking for an easy way to breed this most beautiful orchid in the world? Let me show you the simple yet effective secret! I cut this old orchid to propagate. Apply toothpaste to the cut to help it heal quickly. then wait for the toothpaste to dry. Recycle plastic bottles into tools to stimulate rooting and sprouting. Dry cuts. Take 1 aloe vera leaf. Apply aloe vera gel all over this dry orchid. Then wait for the aloe vera gel to dry. Put the dry orchid branches into this plastic bottle. Place the bottle here and insert moss around it to help retain moisture. Water regularly to keep the environment moist. This helps the orchid germinate faster. Then put it in a cool place and wait for the orchid to revive. 2 MONTHS LATER With this method, after only 2 months, the old withered orchid branches were revived. Now I cut them out to plant in pots. I planted moss soaked in antiseptic and then dried to help prevent the orchids from rotting. If you find it interesting, please like, share and subscribe to my support channel. And don't leave because the next section has a lot of great tips In my hand is a withered orchid branch. And in this video I will share so that you can propagate from any orchid branch. We cut off the spots that have bloomed Just keep these 3 paragraphs can still sprout Applying candle solution on the cut will help protect the orchid from rot Peel off the protective film of the sleeping sprout Use 1 sprig of chopped fresh ginger 500 ml of boiled water wait 1 day Soak orchids in ginger water for 30 minutes Soak moss in ginger water for 30 minutes I use recycled plastic boxes to make miniature greenhouses to help propagate orchids faster There's a vent here Put the orchid in a miniature greenhouse and spray it with moisture once a week Place in a bright place and avoid direct sunlight 21 DAYS AFTER Continue misting to keep moisture and keep in a light place, avoid direct sunlight AFTER 1O NEXT DAY Continue misting to keep moisture and keep in a light place, avoid direct sunlight AFTER 2 NEXT WEEKS Plant in pots to let the orchid adapt and grow in the outside environment If you find it interesting, please subscribe to the channel, like, share to let more people know My videos have subtitles in different languages. Please select the appropriate language to understand the video content clearly Remember to plant the root higher than the pot so that the orchid does not have root rot If you find this part interesting, please share it with as many people as possible to support me. Today I show you how to propagate orchids at home from flower branches Peel off the cover to make sprouts easy to grow Apply molten candle solution to the cut Doing so will not allow water to seep into the branches. At the same time, it helps the orchid not to lose water. Helps protect orchid branches from rot Use 2 small cloves of garlic add 1 liter of water at room temperature puree filter out residue Soak orchid branches in garlic water for 20 minutes Garlic contains a number of natural hormones that stimulate the growth of sprouts and roots Soak moss in garlic water for 20 minutes Garlic contains sulfur compounds and natural antibiotics, which help prevent the growth of harmful bacteria and pests that exist in orchid media. AFTER 20 MINUTES I recycle plastic boxes as orchid propagating tools Put the orchid branch here and remember to put the sprout facing up Put in a cool place for the orchid to revive AFTER 2 WEEKS Sprouts have grown a bit Keep misting to keep moisture regularly Continue to put it in a shady place to wait for the tree to revive AFTER 3 MONTHS WOW The orchid has grown into a very healthy seedling The roots are very big and strong So with only garlic bulbs, we can propagate orchids at home very easily We don't need to use chemical drugs In order for the plant to be perennial and not have root rot, I will replant it later I planted with pine bark and pumice stone so that the roots of the orchid can be ventilated Just put the orchid on and water to keep it moist From now on you can take care of it like any other orchid You can spray mist every day to keep the orchids moist. When the last orchids on the branches are about to fall. is when I cut branches to propagate orchids from flower stalks. Where flowers bloom, I cut off to go there. At this node is the place where orchids can be propagated from flower stalks. I cut it back so the cut doesn't break the cut. Take 1 Amoxicillin tablet. Dab the cut with amoxilin to help it heal faster. Pour into a 500ml bottle of room temperature water. Then mix amocillin in water. This is a plastic seed for growing aquaponic vegetables. Soak in water mixed with amocillin for 30 minutes. Helps kill fungi and bacteria very well. In the meantime, I recycle used plastic containers into orchid propagating tools. Peeling off the film helps orchid sprouts to grow more easily. Use a sprig of fresh ginger. Then squeeze the pure ginger juice. Dip cotton balls in ginger water. Incubate this button for 5 minutes to stimulate germination and fast rooting. Put this button on the plastic pellets and spray moisturizing mist every 2 days. Place the flower pot in a cool and well-lit place. 1 MONTH LATER. Sprouts have sprouted. But still no roots. Continue misting to moisturize every 2 days. AFTER THE NEXT 10 DAYS The orchid sprout has grown and has taken root. But the sprouts are still weak, so I continue to take care of them. AFTER THE NEXT 2 MONTHS. Orchids have grown very healthy. Roots grow very well. Now I plant it in a pot to let the orchid grow in the natural environment outside. Using moss that has been sterilized and dried helps protect orchids from rotting Then water and leave in a cool place with enough light for the orchid to grow. If you find it interesting, please share it so more people know this tip Today I share how to propagate orchids from old withered branches This is a vegetable glue. It prevents water This is a vegetable glue. It prevents water from seeping inside You can also replace this glue by burning a candle and putting it on to prevent it from getting waterproof Scrape off the outer membrane so that the sprouts are easy to germinate. You use 1 clove of garlic Apply garlic juice to newly shaved areas to wake up the sprouts I use a type of moss Fill with water and check the humidity Put the orchid branch in Cover up Keep in a place with daylight. You must not leave it in direct sunlight after 1 month Baby orchids grow healthily and take root very well. Now plant in a pot so the orchid can grow in the outside environment. Thank you for watching the video. Wish you luck and see you in the next videos.