Wanderlust, Schadenfreude, Doppelganger, Zeitgeist. English speakers have occasionally turned German just has this way of expressing in one But these are just the tip of the iceberg of what dear old Deutsch has to offer. Here are my top 10 untranslatable Los geht's! Let's go. First on my list at number 10 is the So you know the German for yes is Well if you smoosh them together, you get jein. And it means exactly what it sounds It is the perfect word for when Would you like another of these Jein - they are delicious, but I'd also It a yes... but also no. I feel like it also kind of reflects this, like, middle-of-the-road attitude That's my pal Marie - a real life German - For me it would be if somebody would ask me "Are go "jein". There are things that will be fun but The word was popularised in the 1990s and their somewhat humorous song "Jein". dilemmas such as whether or not he gone on holiday without him. When he gets a Ja, klar. Ah, nein. Ich meine... Jein! Jein. Jein. Jein. Soll ich es wirklich machen, The reason jein is only at number 10 and better off coming up with our own yes-no hybrid. I So how about "yo"? No. That one's already taken. "Nes"? What do think, is that one any good? Jein. At number 9: the next German into the English language is Kummerspeck. Now we can actually break this meaning sorrow or grief, and Speck meaning bacon. Kummperspeck is that little bit of when you've turned to good This is the result of comfort-eating basically. Exactly. So I would say probably the went through a breakup or through and then they gain a little bit of weight more time eating junk food, and then they will say, Oh, ich weiss, ich habe Kummerspeck We've all been there right? Who among us can say they've never sought solace in the But how exactly do you explain your temporarily inflated state? No English That's why we need a helping of German Up next, at number 8 it's Backpfeifengesicht. The German language is great for helping that all humans experience at one time or another. The word Schadenfreude is such a gift someone else's misfortune? Even if the English Backpfeifengesicht is another word that isn't nice We've all encountered someone a face that's just asking for a slap. You would say, Ah, der hat has such a Backpfeifengesicht. As German band Die Arzte melodically put it: "Backpfeifengesicht. Wenn du glaubst dass dich It essentially kind of means that or that you're ugly, it's not a kind word. Backpfeife is a slap to the cheek also another word: Ohrfeigengesicht. Backpfeifengesicht expresses in one word It's not higher up on the list though because, introducing new insults to the English practice to get right. But once you've got it, Number 7 is a rather more positive potential Sprach Gefuhl literally means language a little harder to express. But maybe that's Sprachgefuhl is the intuitive ability with Sprachgefuhl always reaches for the I think in English we would maybe say or they are erudite or eloquent. But Sprachgeful is more because you can also have a Sprachgefuhl for call it having a feel for a language. it Du hast ein gutes Sprachgefuhl entwickelt. This word actually already has some it very high-brow usage. I'd like to see Now if you want to develop your own may I heartily recommend to you Babbel, need me to tell you how rewarding because you can find all the quirky words And Babbel is one of the top using intuitive lessons to help you learn I've been using it to learn Spanish, which I decided to do after a recent trip the line I was fine 'cos I can kind of With Babbel you can set yourself a you need to meet it including live flashcards and of course lessons you I've found I can make fast progress with Babbel because you're very quickly learning ?Puedo comer el pretzel? No. Babbel has a variety of different subscriptions, during Babbel's Black Friday Sale using my Okay, back to our exploration of untranslatable It breaks down into the words for the unique state of freedom that comes able to do as you please without The best example would be if parents are out of town. You would have Like, for example, I could write my friends which would mean, "Hey, there's no one Ein sturmfreie Bude I've also heard, By the way, German also has these two wife or husband temporarily isn't around. They Again - we're talking about situations or another - but that English is That's why Sturmfrei has stormed its way onto Okay, here we go, we're into the top 5. At nummer funf, I give you Schnapsidee. We can simply translate this as Germany's hard liquor of choice and like a good idea when you were drunk, If somebody says das war eine Schnapsidee Would they be saying that it was literally an it be a bit like saying, it was a pipe dream, it Exactly. It means I got carried away. Schnapsidee isn't the only handy a shot. There's also the doubly excellent A Schnapszahl is a number like you the impression that you're seeing double. How big a part of German culture is Schnapps? Huge! So you'll have a schnapps while friends. You'll have a schnapps after my grandmother other will be While we're talking German tipple, I simply have to introduce you to one of my You could translate it as "way beer" you buy, perhaps from one of Germany's somewhere else. Usually somewhere where One of the best things about this country is that you can drink in the street It's one of the few things they Anyway, Marie, any more One more important one related So the counter beer, and essentially It's the beer that you drink the next when you're very hungover and you need and that's your Konterbier to counter That is perfect. Yeah. We have the which I think is a reference to an hair of the dog that you can get? It's an Just a little one. Now, I'm a little worried all this alcohol So let's get back to our top 10 German In at number 4 it's Kopfkino. This literally means head cinema and it's The theatre of the mind is something that but that's basically what this is, right? Exactly. So it usually will be having a conversation with someone and they for you mentally. So if my friend says, oh, I'm oh Kopfkino. Because I'll be like, imagining Maldives. And I'll have this very vivid Kopfkino expresses something beyond why German has both. And I think we should too. That's why it's at number 4. I just want to take moment here to good at coining the right Well, if you look back at the a lot of them have something in common. up of two or three other German nouns that have And this is what German speakers down do when they've needed a new term we've tended to look beyond our own language built a new one from Latin or Greek, When the television came along, we named it whereas in German it was named By the way, Television and Fernseher mean exactly the same thing. It'd be as if But there hasn't always been this English and German. Old English - the around a thousand years ago - also built A person's body was their bone-house. And there's meant dawn care or dawn sorrow. It's the night. A sensation that certainly didn't maybe that's one we should also start using too. My point is, changes in the lost the ability to elegantly build up that's why, in the cases that I've Okay, let's get back to it. We're into the top 3 and at So, you know homesickness? Well Fern means far - like it does in Fernseher - and Weh is sort of soreness. Fernweh If I haven't taken a vacation in a really Ferweh and start looking at Google But actually, it reminds me of another into our language. Because I think this and that's... people in English might right? The need to sort of get out Yeah. In German it's love of hiking, would use Wanderlust pretty literally if on your regular Sunday afternoon trip. But Fernweh is something tied So I wonder if maybe it'd be worth replacing it with Fernweh. Because definition of wanderlust a bit We should try to establish that. Yeah. The campaign starts now. So German actually has Heimweh - homesickness I suppose we could just start but I recommend we take the rather the English lexicon. It's looking Okay, we're right up at the And my number two German word that Zugzwang us used in those moments to leave you with no choice but to act. When you're forced into taking The term actually comes from chess - where "compulsion". It's a point in the game where even if it's going to harm your It's an enormously useful term that has rightly For example, if somebody really has to make then you would say, Oh, der ist That is such a good word. I think this Because we experience, people being ourselves in that position maybe every I think society would really because it describes the human condition, human situation pretty well. And it helps Quite right. I realise we have gotten a little relate to one another and comprehend each That's why Zugzwang is a worthy runner up. So now it's time. The number should steal at the earliest possible opportunity. The word that fills every hardworking Helga or Heinrich's heart with a glee that Ladies and gentlemen, I give you "Feierabend". So you know that bit of the day that you bit after you finish work, and before Well, let me stop you there, because we don't have a word for it. But Feierabend is the post-work beautiful than that because it means Indeed, Feierabend literally means celebrate every working day of the Admittedly, the people you see blankly train on the commute home don't appear that's maybe because they've And I'm not sure what this says about But usually the end of the day working of Schonen Feierabend! Schonen And I think we deserve that too. my list of German words that So which was your favourite? Let me know more where these came from: Treppenwitz, probably worth a whole video in itself. Next, check out my video about how to read it. Or this really cool one I just did all Right. Feierabend!