Professor Paul Bloom: with a different sort of I want to just show you one of that has been done in the real And these videotapes are not We get them from the web and So, this is one of the first he was at Cornell. our Frank Keil, So, here's the study. [laughter] Change blindness is one of the discovered by laboratory But it's important to realize, surprise of the gorilla and the flickering--the object that's and appreciate the big moral of this is actually, important. perceiving the world. I have a whole sense of where I can't see everybody perfectly You're kind of far away and which I have a world around me. eyes for a second, could sort of remember some of That's really good sound So you're looking up and you world both in perception and The change-blindness experiment The change-blindness experiment for a second and during that change positions, you are extremely unlikely to The change-blindness experiment eyes away from me towards there and I'm dressed entirely notice. told yourself consciously, wearing; that and the other.&quot; consciously you'll lose it, Usually, it's okay because your exploits a basic fact about the which is that most things stay I don't have to explicitly when I turn my head for a second any case. representations of the world. certain clever circumstances. is when psychologists change change-blindness studies. is in movies. when people started making extremely difficult to get And you need to work very hard So, there's all of these into movies and you have to be a even notice this. is that your perception of a lot more limited, So, this is where we were at We were talking about the Sensory memory, of a second of sensory residue you're seeing, short-term memory, And we talked last class about memory, into working memory, And in fact, are actually just studies of how to your consciousness and what Now I want to move to the memory, short-term memory, Now, the obvious distinction is storage differences. has a huge storage capacity. hard drive of your computer. around with. English, just for example, It includes everybody you've faces, stories, songs, TV programs. It is not true that you ever happened to you. that this is true. you have a huge amount stored storage and nobody actually--It finite, But nobody knows how big it is. you carry around in your brain Compare this to working memory which is actually very limited. store on--in--where you could is quite limited. Do not write these things down. I'm just going to give you a 11,109, 43,58, 54. View this as an IQ test if that How many of you who decided to got three or less? Good. seven, eight, Anybody get all eleven? difficult memory task. And I told--and I forgot to pencil ready, me. under normal circumstances the Miller said that this sort of memory storage of short-term plus or minus two. from five to nine roughly. I bet, can beat that. day maybe won't make it that Now &quot;seven plus or minus two&quot; that's what you hold in I can tell you 14,21. &quot;Oh, yeah, 14,21.&quot; with no problem. you, you can't. You can't hold that in your short-term memory. &quot;seven plus or minus two&quot; what? George Miller calls &quot;chunks.&quot; unit, something you think of as So, suppose you see the string A, M, A, I, S, If you don't know--If you can't have to remember them, You have to just pick them up On the other hand, words you could just remember it And if you break it up into two &quot;la maison,&quot; &quot;the house,&quot; it How much you know memorize--how much you could affects what counts as a basic And there's all sorts of If I tell you &quot;1,1, 0,1, 1,0,&quot; those of you who have to remember that as &quot;1, Those of you who are computer for whatever reason, convert it into a single binary Anybody know what the number is? [laughter] 24, or not 24--to some number, It's easier. and the chessboard is set up and chess. remember that. They've taken people in a lab chess. then they say, Look at this for five minutes.&quot; set it up again, &quot;There is a horse-y thing on But if these chess pieces are logical for a chess player, at it and remember it in a It's the Fibonacci defense&quot; or and then immediately recover Similarly, football coaches memories of football diagrams. memory for football diagrams that make sense. photographic memory, plans because it makes sense to They understand it. in memory, and this is a theme get to long-term memory, how much you understand it. effects. so far in short-term memory, The question is how do you get So, you have long-term memory, How does information get from storage? thing--there's one way which very well. rehearsal.&quot; remember this number, And if you remember it in thousand dollars. number when I was a kid. 514-688-9057. four-year-old, say, &quot;I'll remember it.&quot; &quot;What did I just say?&quot; If you tell it to an--because depended on it, What you would do is you'd say 4-688-9057,514-688 --&quot; You'd and over again. it as long as you can do that. You see this all the time, &quot;Jack, call CTU and tell them I can't even remember this but hold--you've just got to repeat head. things into long-term memory. memory, rehearsal is usually not You need to do other things. structure and organization. was in a classic &quot;depth of nicely illustrates the fact that something, the better it gets entrenched So, in this study what they did people that there's going to be And all of the subjects saw the There were forty-eight words. the words. told, &quot;Look. to come out in capital letters, letters. non-capitals.&quot; The other group was told, with 'train,' Others won't. 'train'.&quot; &quot;Does it fit into the sentence the table'? Press a button if it doesn't.&quot; surprise, &quot;What words did you And the findings looked like When they were asked to focus like, memory was very poor, the meaning better. something, the best way to meaning, to give it sense. very ancient technique, remember things that are them some organization through through vivid imagery or songs And there's a lot of examples Do you know how to remember part of the brain called the This is the worst memory trick for twenty years. spatial memory. way around. &quot;The way I find my way around hippocampus.&quot; &quot;Well, that's stupid,&quot; but hippocampus is in charge of It's going to be all you retain Memory books on how to remember exploit this sort of thing when dramatic images. typically involve somebody--like spiky hair and they say, Fish&quot; and then you a big fish impaled on their And then whenever you see them It only really works for names the idea is you try to generate When stuck with a situation letters, turn it into a song each of the letters is the first When having to remember arbitrary, try to figure out a will come to mind easily. way to get things into memory. the way to get things into course no less than anything is by understanding I'm going to read you something to remember what I tell you. strings of numbers. going to be a series of better than a magazine. than the street. than to walk. times. easy to learn. it. complications are minimal. Rain, however, Too many people doing the same One needs lots of room. it can be very peaceful. an anchor. however, you will not have a And here is what I said . remember. Knowing what this is about, it helps the memory and helps it [laughter] Okay. memory--how to get information How do you get information out? You got the stuff presumably You have to get it out. There is a court case. have to recount the crime that You see somebody and you want And you heard it; Well, how do you do that? Retrieval cues make sense. that have been associated with remember. replace the windows, room and see that a window is replace the windows. and forgot about it, &quot;Oh, yeah. together to have lunch.&quot; back but it's a little bit more There's a more general and retrieval called the And what this means is you're something in the context in And this is also known as &quot;state-dependent memory.&quot; strangest experiments in the had people on a boat and then underwater. either on the boat or underwater And then they tested them later. remember it better if you're which you learned it. the retrieval cues help bring it But it's more general than that. something you learned in this try to think about the room in You will do better on your it in this room than if you were because being in this room will It's not just the environment. they're stoned remember them of a low-level that doesn't activities--remember them better again [laughter] Similarly--So, you should tipple a little bit exam. It's sort of like the &quot;what sort of result. it even applies to moods in depressed you have a slightly you're in that same mood of elated. what memory is--part of what back your original context in &quot;Elaborative rehearsal&quot; and connections between different Elaborative rehearsal is that something the easier it is to If you have to think about--If try to connect it to as many Think of an image. Imagine how you would explain Imagine how the world--what the so. of thinking about it makes that thing you have to learn, And so it makes it easier to &quot;Elaborative retrieval&quot; refers to get something back out of too soon. of stuff that's in your memory it needs various sort of One study asked people who were remember their high school And in the first pass people Maybe they had a couple of Otherwise, pretty bad. because you could use high whether or not they get it But then what you do is you &quot;Look. Were you--What sort of--Who was What sort of clubs did you What sort of sports you--did How did you get to school? What did you do during lunch? And you keep ask--&quot;Do you letter--whose last name began 'D'?&quot; pushing and pushing. things come back. never forget. forgetting but sometimes you because you haven't looked long There's a real physical notion answer. Oh. asks either in class or by And deja vu is a feeling that So, you're looking at me and &quot;I've heard this before. You see somebody and say, before.&quot; psychic powers, which many people say it is, this exists. it's worse with frontal lobe If you get damage to this part you get a lot more deja vu I asked some experts in memory, chair of our department, deja vu is. the--say one big theory, Deja vu is a feeling that The answer is it has happened It's happened half a second ago. sometimes there is a glitch, I don't know. and you are talking and then put it in your memory. the stamp on it of what time and So, you're talking to me and you don't store it in memory as Then half a second goes by and say, &quot;This is strangely And that's one theory of what Okay. good news - remembering - forgetting. without looking down at your numbers I gave you earlier? How many people can remember at Oh, impressive. the number would go down. a similar experiment. people forget. Why do you forget? Well, there's different One explanation is your brain's it's a physical piece of meat, Physical things decay. are laid onto your brain will A second answer is interference. Here's a few more: Well, the more information that stuff you're trying to remember, original information. something can be impaired by related to it because they get Finally, and maybe this is most in retrieval cues. more the world changes. extent dependent on cues then the change in retrieval to recall certain things. there's considerable scientific childhood amnesia. amnesia is--doesn't refer to and gets amnesia. have a difficult time recovering I want people to just take a what your first memory is and How many people don't think you were about five years old or Okay. the first memory of around age How many people think you have three or younger? How many of you think you have about one years old or younger? lives but that [laughs] How old is your--roughly your How old? Between one and two. Between one and two? that? Yeah. Professor Paul Bloom: [laughter] Anybody else? this because it's very difficult of their first memories. their first memories, &quot;Oh, yeah. and there was a crib and I'm goo goo' [laughter] I was walking. I remember it.&quot; and, as we'll discuss in some reasons to distrust people when to distrust the accuracy of We also know from studies about terrible experiences when Typically, this trauma is not People know of trauma because don't typically remember it with Even children--older children age. amnesia occurs. difficult to recover memories One theory is that the I had a friend of mine who's a suggested a new form of therapy tables and chairs and then they you're standing there with these [laughter] a baby would come flooding back. And he dropped out of the field Really, but it's such a cool Some people think language is So a child, a baby, signed language. around one, two, the learning of a language And once the memory is the previous state prior to It could be neural maturation. parts of the brains grow around weren't there prior to that. It's a fascinating research early on. is brain damage. couple of flavors. &quot;retro&quot; for past. lose some memory of the past. you get some sort of head trauma entire episodic memory. if you have any sort of serious losing consciousness you'll have to that, And the reason for this is as now they need to kind of get Your brain needs to rewire and you're having. knock you unconscious and then immediately prior will not get forever. anterograde amnesia and this was Korsakoff's syndrome. patient known as H.M. Connecticut. Wearing, the film you saw last And this sort of amnesia is a the ability to form new And so you live in a perpetual new memories. more complicated than that. an exciting discovery about real insights about normal this is the brain damage in the temporal lobe and the spatial memory you'll know. who couldn't form new memories memories, but of certain types. this is a task here involving in to a mirror. you'd find it pretty difficult. do. You bring in an amnesic who say, &quot;Hey. I want you to try this star He'd say, &quot;Okay. I'll do it.&quot; Does very badly. over again--Each time he does it &quot;I've never seen this before. try&quot; but he gets better and And this is known as implicit The claim is that in these abilities to form explicit aware of, that you understand. persist and you are able to form This has actually been dramatic movies, movie [laughs] ability to form new memories and Sandler. Definitely don't watch that. &quot;Memento,&quot; which is about a to form new memories while killer. fascinating because it's told But throughout &quot;Memento&quot; forwards. it very dramatically illustrates not impaired in cases of severe So, I'm going to show you a the disassociation from Those of you who have seen the quite tragically for Sammy. We've dealt right now with two One is everyday failure of How many of you remember three originally presented? Go ahead. Professor Paul Bloom: Is that right? [laughter] All right. month. Well, people are supposed to and some things will--you will That's normal forgetting. to brain damage. is exotic and unusual but it's illustrates some more general Remember one theme of this exotic cases like the case of not just because they're but sometimes by looking at the something about how normal intact minds and brains work. more interesting and it I want to do a little trial What I want to do is I want children describe an event that I want you to come to Imagine you were a judge, you wanted to see--I want you about who you believe and what [inaudible] You've heard three children. Who believes--There's three of three. Who believes the second one? Sort of an even split. Twenty-three hundred experts about the different actions, ripped the book, tossed the book in the air and, the majority thought that he This is work done by Steve Ceci me the film to use for teaching It turns out the second girl Absolutely nothing happened. The teacher said, Stone who's going to come in.&quot; &quot;Hi,&quot; walks around and leaves. The first and third children not through any sort of science They had their memories they had their memories Some of the children would just The interviewer, of what happened so the naive interviewer. interview children and you ask book was ripped, Did he really do it?&quot; They didn't see anything and Other children were told about They were told a stereotype very clumsy and he tends to rip breaks things and he spills And in fact, in passing. Just knowing this about Sam proportion of kids who say, that he ripped the book. suggestions. questioning. questions like, Sam Stone came in? there?&quot; both. the children you saw were from They heard Sam Stone being they were given a series of In this condition they were questionings over the period of These children, third child, are not lying. Stone came in and did these Also they believe it and belief that experts, child caseworkers and judges and be extremely believable. them to be extremely believable lying. what they saw. implanted. investigators, implanted in people's minds leading questions. of experiments and the same sort considerable success in adults. people remembering terrible when actually, And this is not because they It's not even because they're, deranged or schizophrenic or Rather, they have persuaded persuaded by others, happened. the laboratory how one could do memories in other people. standard. story about a trip I took to the a time when I ate out at a certain details. bill in a restaurant, meal and then I went home. the blanks. blanks with things you know. later saying, He told me he finished eating, because paying the bill is what This is benign enough. You also can integrate And the clearest case of this And the best research on this Loftus who has done a series of some discussed in the textbook, can be swayed by leading And it can be extremely subtle. the person was just asked in questions--shown a scene where either, headlight?&quot; headlight?&quot; there was a broken headlight and &quot;Did you see the broken later on are more likely to It creates an image and they In another study, and then ask, getting on the school bus?&quot; but people who hear that &quot;Did you see a school bus in are more likely to say yes. she would show people film &quot;How fast were the cars going or &quot;How fast were the cars each other?&quot; back in to the laboratory and glass?&quot; see the broken glass more than question has changed their making it more of a dramatic Hypnosis is the clearest case reconstructive effort led and probing questions. hypnotizable and you can be And what we would learn about a will not necessarily then be What hypnotizing does is it cooperate. it isn't as if there is a could just go through and look say, The person's hypnotized and then they zoom in on the license Memory doesn't work that way. will do in a hypnotizable state please the hypnotist. And people under hypnosis just And they do very believably make stuff up. with hypnotic regression when we birthday party, And what's great as a I ask you to go back to your hypnotizable you'll be oh, except you won't be like a real What you'll be like is an four-year-old is supposed to be. the extreme case with hypnotic speak languages like from And linguists love these course you don't really sound from ancient Egypt. American who believes he's Egypt so they're, [laughter] is--Hypnotism brings out the It makes you want to give a happened. extreme form of what normally Repressed memories. could devote a semester to the States mostly about repressed There are many adults who have traumatic sexual abuse. this is unexceptional from a People know this happened to They've always known it happens people about it. where people have had no memory to them. or a psychiatrist; often using hypnotic and then they recover a memory And what this is--what makes and there is a debate about I don't want to try to preclude What makes this debatable is in at least some cases, they have been repressed through they're too terrible to bring to and the therapy brings them out But most psychologists believe trusted, that these memories are the therapist. considerable psychological and of the therapists where women sexual--be sexually abused, have pressed criminal charges basis of false memories. accused of sexual abuse have psychiatrists claiming that implanted the memories into It is controversial whether What isn't controversial is you can implant false memories not because you're a sinister really believed something And you talked to them about it memories to come into being. memories. semester. How many of you remember where Is there anybody who doesn't September 11,2001? It was a socially relevant with these flashbulb memories. that these memories being so many of us--exactly where we well, they can't really be And here is why not. events, I bet many of you have before, &quot;Where were you on and talked about it. conversations is stories change. on September 11^(th). But I spent as much time as I spent time me talking about And now maybe my memory is not mine. cases, the temptation you have &quot;Yes. I know they could be distorted you see, I really am sure that You have to resist that many cases we know, that we just saw, things happened. didn't exist. a memory isn't false, implanted. three main morals. memories. memory, long-term memory. and explicit memory. sort of memories. having the other one impaired. systems dedicated to memory for objects, memory for spatial The key to remembering is Introduction to &quot;X&quot; courses, Psychology courses, at Yale. just a lot of material that is each aspect separately. tend to be highfalutin seminars a background that everything understandable. something, the easier you'll And finally, memories. week is you have to use your evil, though if you manage to succeed impressed. But you have to describe, and the readings, We have a few minutes. Yes. Professor Paul Bloom: Uh Hey. [inaudible] memory? The example is, you know how to play the piano?&quot; It is long-term memory because concerto or a song and then you you carry it around with you. now, two years from now. is also an excellent example of how to do it but you could do it to it. if, put it crudely, your mind. question. Student: [inaudible] The question is about There are a lot of claims about My understanding is they do not Sometimes photographic memory, about autism a few classes ago, skills. impairments in some ways may others. photographic memory in the sense you take a picture of it, exists. case studies that suggest it controversial. We have a guest lecturer on Dean Peter Salovey will talk to