- [Narrator] This is the Xbox Series X, Microsoft's most powerful For a long time, you needed an Xbox to play games like Then Microsoft decided you don't. So it launched a monthly that lets users play the of other devices, but it's and will take a lot of So, will this shift pay off? And what does it mean for This is The Economics of Xbox. Today, with more than 30 game studios, Xbox is an industry mainstay, - But it had to really earn - [Narrator] The console when video game companies to create a more powerful By the '90s, the biggest players were Sony, Nintendo, and Sega. And in 1997, consumer spending on consoles surpassed arcades for the first time. A few years later, with its first generation Xbox. To entice customers into their ecosystems, most of these companies on their consoles as low as possible, selling them at a loss. Xbox loses up to $200 per console, but the brands made up the and other accessories. - The more consoles you sell, to sell with it. - [Narrator] The PlayStation outsold the Xbox every single time. Microsoft only came close to beating Sony with the Xbox 360. Analysts say this was which ran customers up to but the Xbox lost ground and ultimately, it lost the console war. In 2017, Xbox launched Game Pass, positioning itself as a services brand. - It's more interested in to people, whatever device - [Narrator] Game Pass The least expensive plans or PC, and the most expensive and other features like and access to certain games In essence, Microsoft is betting that it can get more customers if they don't have to buy a console. This model also gives the company a recurring revenue stream, as much on blockbuster successes. - So Game Pass solves the by making lots of content and on the business or of offsetting the financial volatility associated with entertainment. - [Narrator] Microsoft's has said Game Pass is profitable. - And I think it will of our overall revenue. - [Narrator] But Microsoft stepping into the subscription world. In 2022, Sony merged its PlayStation Plus and PlayStation Now, and relaunched it to There are two key things First, it's a much larger company with lots and lots of money. And for the past decade, Microsoft to acquire game studios, In 2014, it bought Mojang, for $2.5 billion. In 2021, it bought ZeniMax Media, owner of &quot;Fallout&quot; and and in 2023, it finalized the purchase of Activision Blizzard, and &quot;Candy Crush&quot; for $75.4 billion. - To put it in perspective, than what Sony makes annually. - [Narrator] Second, as Microsoft owns lots and over 300 worldwide. Some of which help support - The incumbents like Nintendo and Sony, they live and die on great content, and this magnificent retail distribution infrastructure that they've built. So it's in Microsoft's interest to push into its data centers and its infrastructure in the cloud, because it can't beat Sony - [Narrator] This puts it in an arena that mainly other massive tech companies like Amazon, Nvidia, and but there are lots of obstacles. To start, adoption has been slow. In 2020, it targeted 71% but the following year, it fell short. And in 2022, it missed - Some people are just not comfortable with the idea of not They may wanna play a game, and pick it up later, or and it may not be in anymore after that time. - [Narrator] So as of 2024, Game Pass has amassed Some of the biggest challenges A feature included in Traditionally, game data was disks, or downloaded With online multiplayer games, data like each player's But with cloud gaming, the to your device, which can be laggy. - If it's a competitive game, a millisecond can mean the difference between winning and losing. - [Narrator] Cloud gaming is - The economics have changed, but they haven't immediately changed to, you know, only run a profit. Both of those offerings, whether those are product-based and conventional, or whether they are both of those run at a loss in principle, but to recuperate and that to is a very different proposition. - [Narrator] One report around the world were subscribed to a cloud gaming service in 2023. Still, experts believe it - Cloud gaming is one where they could possibly thrive and lead, even if that's a much more - [Narrator] Microsoft isn't getting rid of the Xbox anytime soon. Later this year, it will of its current generation, but it's clear that Xbox views of the company, not its hardware. - It is incredibly difficult in spite of their resources, And so, you know, they're just run the show. And so in many ways, you that the current effort and and X Cloud, and all of the and acquiring goes towards in the driver's seat for the first time, - [Narrator] Giving it the chance to win whatever the (screen buzzes)