Welcome back everyone, it's Charlie This will be my full Dune Prophecy Episode 2 video There are a whole bunch of Easter Eggs and references, If you're brand new to the channel, The episode title was Two Wolves, which is a reference Like wolves at the door, Harts storyline working against the Bene Gesserit and the Kieran Atreides double agent storyline working for the rebellion, they finally do the actual intro for the episode, the actual opening scene There are a bunch of different things There's a curled hand extending two fingers. It's a Bene Gesserit hand speaking their language. You actually see them doing that throughout the episodes. the Bloody Blade seems more like a metaphor Created a Kwisatz Haderach, the plotting and scheming A lot of backstabbing going on behind the scenes. The blood in the pool seems like a reference to Valya When Lila learns about her mother's secret. The pomegranate in the red dress. Or for the wedding? In the ceremony. Now a broken pact because the child is dead. This is meant to be the imperial throne. Because that's the grand plan of the sisterhood right now. They want to gain control of the throne. within the Dune universe. They also call it the Golden Lion throne. This is the Emperor's fortress. I wouldn't exactly call it a castle. Like it seems like it's meant to be more defensible strand of DNA for their grand breeding program. The Kwisatz Haderach The planet looks more like Salusa Secundus Arrakis these dead animals in the snowy landscape Lankveil, the place where they were exiled We're actually going to travel there next week. This is meant to be the Bene Gesserit This is Mother Raquel, This is older Valya in her office, drop a blue is part of the agony ceremony in the future. This is eventually the water of life. The blue water of life. But at this point in the timeline, there was actually a time early when they used this technique On the show, they're just calling it The Agony. and it's borne out of a lot of the techniques in the lower which might be connected to some of the plots because there are a lot of different references to that And they are also the progenitors of the Bene Gesserit. So a lot of the Bennett Jesuits here it comes from things that were started they also have telekinetic abilities So he also might have a connection to them to. we also get a big tutorial unlocking the genetic memory This is something that's very common in the future. But in all the movies that we've seen so far, they never get too deeply into the origin of this ceremony But what you see in the episode where she basically line is the same idea for Paul Atreides Also on top of this also gains access to all the genetic The episode sort of visualizes this process in a way we see one of them complete the agony test transforming to the round mouth in teeth of a sandworm, Because it all goes back to the spice of Arrakis The bowl here is meant to represent House Atreides. Don't worry. We'll talk about that too. Because what we're in a trade is doing on the show In the timeline he's So he sort of rebelling also against his family And straw in his family but the big twist of the episode with his character kind of shady, doing what seems like bad things, even the sand dunes in the coming storm prophecy tier and era fell, The whole reason for Lyla taking the agony ceremony. this ring is the one that's worn by the current Mother who is now to the poisoned needle, Then the camera pulls out, transitioning changing to space than a human eye, These also might be a reference to the blue eyes staring back at her during the vision of the prophecy, The second. He's the person in the books in the true Kwisatz Haderach, maybe, maybe the movies but I don't think Dune Part That's like way further in the future. because I think that Dune Part three will be the last one. The Danny new in Timothy Shalom. We do. but they start the episode with the doctor coming They're calling her Nasir, saying the Imperial Academy to become a doctor. That's what the diamond on her forehead represents. It's just like Doctor Us diamond. when they say she traveled from suck school. That's the main medical school in the Dune universe. but the idea here is that the Bene Gesserit from the top down, from the Imperial household on a political level, but also other organizations to. so the idea of the sisterhood is everywhere all plots, Somehow the bandages are it are connected to it. there, with the rebellion plotline, in the fact we get a look at the sisterhood, This is a huge contrast And remember, the movies take place So it's almost like technology now, 10,000 years ago when she says no accelerant was used to make kasha burn, just burned from inside her body, she says she was burned from inside her Meridian network. That isn't a medical term in real life, and it's not So I think it's just meant to be. Her brain. but like I said, I think that Desmond Heart Like the sorceresses of Ross act, because they very definitely they're actually a couple organizations that really hate mother. Ricola, who founded the Bennett Sorceresses like she learned from them. She didn't come from their planet, but she learned from them there's also the organization inside the Dune universe A lot of people are like, maybe Desmond Heart is a gola, because there's no way How could he be here if he was dead? Really. The best guess in that case would be that Like he did die. He didn't survive in a gola is like the Dune universe version of a clone So the idea is that the original Desmond You create a gola of him. They just remember everything So if we're talking about theory crafting here, he's some sort of combination of a gola abilities of telekinesis that might be why he's touching his temples That buzzing sound in his head. but after this episode, from inside the Bene Gesserit on their home So it's not like Desmond is burning I think that there's somebody helping him Then when the acolytes here are talking about the links in the name of their grand plans. I think this is setting up this sort of subplot with She might wind up being the plant later in the episode, that the bene Gesserit don't care about her at all, Like, why would you be here wanting to be a Bene Gesserit maybe, maybe it's because she's here as a plant, my early theory after that last scene with her It wasn't Desmond across the universe. It was somebody inside the compound. And if she's the plant, then it was probably her. value takes off for Seleucids, the Kunduz, after they learned It was so critical to their plot, End of days prophecy that Mother Ricola spoke up. Like I said, really, the prophecy is meant to be for Leto years in the future, there couple moments like that This episode where there are a lot of double meanings, right now, or it also could be portrayed We'll get to that. if you watch any of my Game of Thrones videos prophecy is just the name of the game value. Explains the plan so that she can unlock the genetic memory And they can get instant replay on that prophecy to try and figure out what's going on. they allude to the fact that Lila her mother, Dorothea, Like Dorothea eventually tries to gain control of Lila's Sister Theodosia goes this elusive, circuitous with value. She says something about her unique circumstances, During the episode. back of the Imperial palace. They sort of said that the relationship He's a woman who's basically his daughter. The kid's older brother. this whole scene gave me vibes of Game of Thrones, like the two of them, part of this whole scene is also to set up they waste no time in having Desmond admit to what he did. Like. Oh, you asked me to kill the boy like you said he wanted they throw him in their cells. What do they call the suspense or cells? Wait for it suspended in the air. part of the joke here, too, he doesn't need his hands or his feet so. Putting him in the middle of the air Constantine and Lady Rich has a the younger. Get it on outside the palace. Her comment about his powers of sex transcending time powers power beyond time and space She explains her history with her family didn't really care about them that much They do a whole bunch of spice bombs. That's what they're snorting here. Spice is used as a drug in the Dune universe. she starts talking about the real power in the universe Because the spice must flow. It's the most valuable commodity in the universe. So he who controls Arrakis controls the universe. They use this to set up riches. A learning that Desmond is the person who killed his son. that I love when she makes him do another bump, Only good for boning. not a bad way to go out at the end of the night. They use this scene of the Emperor discussing Desmond trying to hijack him and use him to get rid of both remember, the Empress hates the Bennet Jesuit, So she's like, We get our fleet and we get rid of the Bene Gesserit. back at the Bene Gesserit compound, in the history of this other girl's family in the Butlers. So the Butlers are actually House Carino, They changed their name after the end of the war, because They call it the Battle of Corrin. In the books, the Machine Wars are actually called the Bulgarian Jihad when she mentions Raina Butler in the books, After the war, she started this anti thinking in jihad, like this big sweeping movement. But she had to sacrifice She mentions In the end, really big subplot during the Dune Part two movie, to use his atomics on the spice fields on Arrakis way back. After the Machine Wars ended, the lands dried. All the great houses sign an armistice But instead of destroying them, So nobody ever actually destroyed their atomics. which they got into during the Dune part two movie. Like these should have been destroyed 10,000 years ago, like the ancient dukes of our line, But even though that makes House of treaties all the great houses kept all their atomics Everybody did this. they reference the poison that they're going to give Lila Like I said, their technique here is devised because that's where Ricola learned all their techniques. Like I said, this is kind of why I think that Desmond Hart then we get a really good look at a Spacing Guild ship. This gives you a good sense of the scale Really tiny flying out of the opening here. You have to keep in mind that the Spacing Guild ships are designed to house entire fleets so be like a bunch of Star Destroyers transporting itself across the universe. value shows up in court. And you see what the true saying ability looks like Hard. then the Emperor and the Empress learned that Kasha died And they also realized that means that Desmond Hardt killed both of them, Like I said, I think that's meant to be a misdirect. And Desmond didn't kill Kasha. It was somebody else inside the Bene Gesserit They killed her. We see the princess lose it Retraining the kasha gave her to calm herself down. And they really get into this episode what her backstory part of the idea is they want to make it feel right now, the reason why she's so critical to the Jesuits on the throne like a full Reverend Mother, fully The Emperor is also sitting on the throne actually being the Emperor yourself. and because of the rules of who's allowed to inherit with the imperial throne, she has to be engaged So even though she begs Valya the reason why Valya can't do that is because first In second, from another great house princess won't be allowed to inherit the throne They don't really get into it in the Dune movies. But like early on, for instance, couldn't Unwed. there's a bit of a funny reference Theodosia talks about the times That's basically paper. She's basically saying that way back in ancient times, me that in present day most people, there are a couple scenes here to where the princess and seems like she might start doing her own value faces off against Desmond trying to interrogate him. Notice how he never blinks but the minute she walks around back and breaks his gaze, this probably gets into him blocking some of her abilities the voice doesn't work on him when he says he's originally from Bella, the ancestors of the Fremen visited There were reference to the Wanderers that's that same group So the idea is that Desmond this is also why she says his home is meant to give you vibes of Arrakis, which is also he freely admits, in front of everyone here Notice how much he hates the Bene Gesserit in Kasha How unworthy she was. it seems like her truth saying also does not work on him. If the voice doesn't work on him, then true saying also probably doesn't work that well on him And I think the idea is that also meant to be true. Like Desmond is not lying to them about anything. that would actually be the best way to fight the sisters. True saying ability is to only tell the truth. He doesn't actually outright say who he's working for. He just says he serves the Imperium. But that's a very, very vague statement. It's like saying you serve justice. And what does that really mean? Like, Who decided what justice is? and because the, the Jesuit are the ones And I don't think he's connected to the rebellion. Desmond starts to undermine the sisterhood it's working in the Empress is eating it all up. Like, look how happy she is. Like, I found my guy. He's my guy. He's going to take care of all my problems. There's a little Easter egg here, too. You see, Valya using one of the cones of silence They're used in the Dune movies. It's like an electronic field. It's exactly what it looks like. A cone of silence. Xenia The Countess, where she goes to get the information from the other Bene Gesserit, we get that longer scene of Sister Jen trying to talk the agony ceremony Like a lot of her conversation which is why I think that she might be the secret plan's Maybe she's the person who actually killed Kasha. That was why in episode one, Like, what you're saying isn't totally true, So it's like she's hiding something. I think the fact that she is secretly a plant here in the trees for the resistance group, we learn. Their group is meant to be an anti lorn strike group to the rest of the great houses who are hoarding spice, sort of like a class war kind of situation. but remember the reveal here is that the Bene Gesserit So really, it's the Bene Gesserit like they're the ones that are trying to help the Emperor Just more reminders that the Bennet Jesuit have when carrying a treaty shows up, like I said, is the fact that he's rebelling Join this group house of trees itself isn't inherently bad, Trot or anything like that. He's doing this on his own. But at least the way they're putting it, he believes that he's doing the righteous thing As in the other great houses, like bring them to heel so at least on the surface, but I think what they're setting up is a big fight The princess also has a lot of secret later she also calls off their little tricks so it just might come to blows eventually there's a very a very big lore dump. Run the Dune books during their conversation here, too, So if you haven't read the Brian Herbert Dune prequel books, this is all stuff that takes place back And like, right after the Machine Wars. borrowing in a treaties was the mythical He was the first person to ever take the name of treaties. He was the son of the Titan general Agamemnon. The Titans were humans who eventually rose up In a bad way. Some of them converted themselves into cybernetic beings Like the things on walkers with human brains. The reason why humans turn themselves into cybernetic But eventually the AI consciousness called boring in a treatise, rebelled against his father So that's why in this scene, But it doesn't stop there. Like for you to trade He's the same. A treaty that accused the Baron Harkonnen which got them disgraced in banished to link Vale. value swore revenge against him, tried to kill him. And the reason why he continues to live way longer It's like he just keeps going and going, me that he could still be alive Verena, traitors is also the person with, getting her involved in what would eventually lead Later in his life, he got involved on Arrakis so that the rest of House of traitors thinks So that's why you may have seen some people theorizing They talk about trying to assassinate the Emperor. We'll see how that goes down. Like they probably will not be successful Later in the timeline, the Chirinos still control Tula gives Lila her most precious keepsake as a child. It's a tooth. I don't know what kind of animal tooth this is, right now. We go there next week, so we'll get some more flashbacks She lies to Lila, saying that But we know that her mother was Dorothea. And she died because Valya killed her. value then reveals that it was the Bene Gesserit that Desmond was complaining about when he said Like, It was people inside the Empire. This also might be a comp to the plot against Leto trades when the cannons go after him Really? Mohi. Actually said that it was her think that it was his idea just the idea in the universe, the Bene Gesserit value wants to give the names of the people think that they're more useful Rely on the Bene Gesserit more, So, oh. Bad news for him. there's another poetry wink here, too, will pose an issue, invalid looks off in the distance more references to their genetic breeding program. The Kwisatz Haderach is in the future, a trade is to carry on the line. But it can be any male. A trade is inquiring. A trade is here. Doesn't sound like he's from the books. I'm not sure if he's from the books, but the idea is Would be fine. So that you're saying I got plenty of a trade Kill them all you want. speaking of Bene Gesserit plots, of how the Bene Gesserit saved her, and it kind of sounds she says as a child, A Jesuit saved her. but I think we're all probably in agreement that so that the princess would be reliant on them long term then the Empress flat out asked or at least get rid of and take care of the Bene Gesserit While that gets started, we see Leila's when they say her for mother's will wake hungry The idea is that these previous memories, might want to take over her waking mind, they might get into this in Dune part three, in the movies the abomination in the books, because she is corrupted No spoilers about who that mind is, but if you've read just the idea that the people inside them She takes the poison Like they try to visualize it You see it interacting with the red blood She goes into the vision and they visualize her meeting Remember, these are just the female ancestors. this exact same thing would be happening to poetry. These when he takes the water of life. The difference with him is that he gains access is male ancestors on top of the female ancestors. But the way they visualize this, she's inside of tomb. All these different remains, like all the skeletons, tens of thousands of years or more, all the whispers you hear in her mind You hear it from several other characters in the episode, Those are her female ancestors. Those are her female answers because Tula and Value are sister, they overtake her in the way they play this scene. They make it seem like she actually does When really. Okay. Wait for it. It's actually her mother Dorothea, But there is a brief moment She says the key to the reckoning So some of you probably sense the double meaning here. It's both a reference to Desmond on the show, to Paul, the treaties and Lito He talks about being born again Paul Atreides died briefly when he took the water of life. It was Chinese tear that brought him back, Leto the second was born when he became part sandworm Then we actually see Dora Taya revealing herself, briefly and the other sisters for killing her in making it seem or at least put her into a perma coma I think we're expecting Leila to eventually prevail. Like, eventually she'll come out of the coma. then the emperor back on. So loses Easy. Like, why don't you take care of this problem? It's probably him listening to his wife. And it's really his wife's plan. Desmond starts to slow roast that he leave the fleet that he promised, notice when this is happening, he touches his temple again sound going on in Later, when she comes back, The same thing, It's the same for all reverend mothers. Desmond then throws the gantlet you're out the Bennett Jesuit her out. Don't show your faces around here anymore. Don't let the door hit your ass on the way out. she tries to use the voice on him, but it doesn't work. Meaning that The way that Jessica trained Paul he's been trained by an actual Bene Gesserit by the sorceresses of Ross Act, who have telekinetic so everyone post all your Desmond theories Where does he come from? Who is he really? And who gave him these powers? there's a bunch of Easter Eggs So if there's any just write them below in the comments in my full episode Just like normal going to get a big deep dive in the Harkonnens everybody click here for that video for all my Dune episodes Thank you so much for watching,