Herrine Ro: Hot dogs might but Chicago knows how We visited three famous spots, Gene and Jude's, Superdawg's to find which Chicago-style Producer: Rolling. Erin Kommor: Rolling! Herrine: We're in Chicago to find the best Chicago-style hot dog. Have you had one before? Erin: Herrine, like most things, I have not had a Chicago-style hot dog. What are we looking for in this hot dog? Herrine: One, the dog itself should be flavorful and have that snap to it. Erin: Oh, I love a snap. Herrine: Yeah. The second one is that every place that we'll be visiting has their own iteration of what So the toppings should all Everything should be a Erin: Uh-huh, amazing. Herrine: Third, we're looking A Chicago-style hot dog Erin: Yes! Herrine: So after you eat it, are we full? Erin: Yeah. Erin: OK, so let's go try them. Herrine: Our first stop is Superdawg's, and this place is known not their hot dogs. Herrine: We will truly get in trouble if we call it a hot dog. Erin: OK, OK. I will not call it that. Lisa Drucker: There are throughout Chicago, but Customer: I consider Chicago hot dogs in the city. I think it has a lot to It's a little bit thicker and heavier than the dogs you get at most places. Scott Berman: The Superdawg made to our recipe. Extra large, so large made specially to hold the Superdawg. Lisa: And they're also cooked exactly the right amount of time to give it the right snap, Not too soft and not too hard. Don Drucker: The generic, of a Chicago-style hot served on a steamed poppy seed bun served with the Chicago seven: golden yellow mustard, a white chopped onion, a kosher hot peppers, and celery salt. We're a little bit different. We don't use a red tomato. We use the green pickled tomato, and we don't use celery salt. The other thing about is you never put ketchup Scott: We serve all of and it also contains Superfries. We're very proud of our french fries. Fresh potatoes peeled and cut in-house and then put in the Herrine: I don't know how to do this. Erin: Oh, my God, you're gonna fall out. I feel like I have to spot you. Herrine: I feel like a dog. &quot;Press button for service.&quot; Lisa: Hiya, thanks for stopping. Can I take your order now, please? Herrine: Yes, can I get two Superdawgs? Lisa: Sure, everything on both of them? Herrine: Yes, please. Lisa: Thank you. Lisa: Coming right up, thank you. Herrine: Can you pop the trunk? Erin: Yes, honey. Herrine: Oh, wow. Herrine: She is filled to the brim. Erin: She is filled to the brim! It's not just, like, a Herrine: Like, it's so difficult for me to fish out the.... Erin: I know, I'm actually having - uh-oh. [somber music] Herrine: No! Erin: You can have mine, Herrine. Herrine: It was part of the experience. Erin: Oh, my God, it's really good. Oh, my God. Herrine: Oh, yeah! Erin: That is... unreal. Herrine: That is so good. Erin: It's one of the best hot - if not the best hot dog I've had. Herrine: Every ingredient is, Erin: Totally. I didn't know what a hot dog - like, I'm basic. Like, I've only had a hot dog with, like, ketchup and mustard from, like, a stand. The mustard and the onions and the pickle, that's what should be on a hot dog. Herrine: Yeah, I agree. Erin: And they're so fresh. Every single ingredient is so fresh here. Herrine: The first bite of that dog, for me, I got the snap. You got the snap? and I love the end piece. That's, like, my favorite. It had such a nice crispy snap. Herrine: And it's so juicy! Erin: It's so juicy. Herrine: And that bun is not Erin: No! Herrine: It is so plush Erin: The plushest. Herrine: Sticks together, the toppings and how it's, like, Erin: Me too, I love... acidity is my thing, so all the pickles and onions and relish Wait, have you tried the... Herrine: Sport pepper. Herrine: Let's try it together. Erin: Oh, I like that. [Herrine laughs] Oh, it's very spicy! OK, so, overall, how do you feel? Herrine: I like everything in a Superdawg. Erin: I do like everything, love the meat so much. Herrine: The fries, also... Erin: They've divine. I love a crinkle. Herrine: You get that pillowy Erin: So pillowy. Herrine: I don't think there's one thing that I can say that's bad about this. Erin: I wouldn't change anything. Herrine: Would you consider this the super hot dog? It's the superiest Herrine: But we can't Erin: I want another one. Herrine: I want another one too. Erin: OK, Herrine. Where are we? Herrine: Surprise! We're We are five minutes outside of Chicago, but we still have to loop this in because this place sells a very Erin: I see. Nick Holmes: Gene and Jude's is a traditional hot-dog stand, one of the few remaining in the country. And we're located in River Grove, which is about five minutes outside the city limits of Chicago. There's two styles of Chicago hot dog. There are the &quot;dragged which has tomatoes, pickles, and all that. We do Depression Dogs, which is kind of the But the Depression Dog started when people didn't really and they were looking for a cheaper way to get a lot of food. My uncle decided to take fries and top the hot dog with them as a way to help fill your and add a little more The Depression Dog is Chicagoans than the dragged Customer: What I love most are the authenticity. It really comes with the and I feel like I'm in Chicago It's great. Nick: So, we use regular hot and that helps soften them up a bit. We use classic Vienna hot dogs. We boil them for a very specific time. Our hot dogs come with a full casing, so when you bite into it, you get that, you know, it breaks off with a good snap. So, a Depression Dog is only mustard, relish - brown relish, typically - onions, and sport peppers, and then you top that with fries. Our fries are peeled Herrine: I'm gonna get us napkins. Where are the napkins? Oh, here we are. I have found the napkins. Erin: Boop. Oh, my goodness, there's so many fries. Oh, my God. Herrine: You know how, &quot;Oh, you're a snack,&quot; &quot;This is, like, the whole meal&quot;? Erin: Take a few fries off. Erin: And then eat a few fries, like, just, like, to warm yourself up. Oh, heck, yeah. Erin: So solid. Herrine: OK, let's go for it. Erin: Cheers. Mm. Herrine: When I saw photos, like, I thought it was gonna be too much carbs, because, a pile of fries. So I thought topping-wise but there is a very when you take a bite and layers of plushy potatoes. They're so plush. Herrine: And, like, the Erin: So snappy. It feels very, like, Herrine: This I feel like is, like, the true Midwest thing, where it's like, a meal hearty, stick to your bones. Erin: Yeah. Herrine: You know, like, how like, a regular sandwich, you, like, put in fries or potato chips? Erin: Potato chips, yeah! Herrine: To, like, make it taste better. Erin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's like the missing link Herrine: The link! Like a sausage, you know? Erin: [laughing] I truly didn't get it. At Superdawg, they serve them on the side. Herrine: And I don't think a dragged through the garden thing, where you put fries on top. Herrine: There truly is no room. Erin: No. And if you're gonna they better be good, and These are my favorite fries. Herrine: Really? Herrine: Why? Erin: I love a crinkle cut, sure, but I find that with crinkle cut sometimes they get, like, dry, and, like, they're not as flavorful to me. These are so greasy and, like, satisfying. Herrine: It's very smart that like you said, because it, like, sops up all that extra juice. If we're judging on the satiation, you're getting a full-on on top the hot dog. Like, there's no amount of vegetables or other kind of toppings Erin: No, absolutely not. There's no way. How do you feel about the Herrine: This might be see the appeal of a poppy seed bun, really, like, when it comes to taste. Erin: Yeah, it doesn't Herrine: Yeah. So, at Superdawg they use electric-green relish. Erin: Yes. Herrine: How do you feel This is a brown relish. Erin: Is this one a sweet? Herrine: No, I think it's more tangy. Erin: I like the way that this one complements with the french fries. Herrine: The flavor profile I feel like, is more acidic and sour. Erin: Mm-hmm. Tangy. Herrine: And tangy, versus, that you would get from a garden hot dog. Erin: Totally. I fully, 100% agree. Herrine: It's gonna be with a &quot;dragged through Erin: 'Cause they're so different. Herrine: Our next stop It is Chicago's famous and they are known for their Erin: Everyone I talk to is like, &quot;You have to go to Portillo's.&quot; Herrine: Yeah. Herrine: I am too. Let's go. Employee: Two four zero, Two five zero! Brad Fithian: Portillo's is definitely considered a Chicago institution. Customer: This is the first and what I think separates it from others is it's got all the ingredients that you wouldn't get Mm. 10 out of 10. Brad: The Chicago-style hot dog we sell more of than any other item. So, our dogs are special The hot dog itself is also smoked, which, with the casing, that little snap, that I think that because they have a little bit more flavor. In my definition, a Chicago-style hot dog is like a melting pot of flavors. So, you have a steamed bun, you have a crisp, warm hot dog, you have mustard, you have relish, you have onions, you have tomatoes. The fresh tomatoes, it gives it a little bit as opposed to any other kind of tomato. A pickled tomato might be Then you have pickles, sport The celery salt is a key ingredient, because celery salt is a that meshes well with the other flavors. Herrine: I do wanna say that the hot dogs and the fries are sold separately, and the other places Erin: Yeah. Herrine: So in terms we only will be judging on the dog. Erin: OK. Herrine: The dog itself is very slim. She's slim and thin. Erin: She's been going to the gym. It's half-vegetable, half-dog. Herrine: Do you wanna bite? Erin: Yeah. Erin: Oh, my God. That is a snap. It went [makes snapping sound]. Herrine: It went [makes snapping sound]. Erin: And it was very satisfying. Herrine: I got a snap, but, like, I didn't get, like, a jarring snap. Do I have poppy seed on my mouth? No, other side. Just hold on one second. We're back. Back in business. I don't get, like, a very smoky flavor, like you would expect or, like, that you would Erin: I've never had celery salt, and I may keep it that way. Herrine: You don't like it? Erin: I don't love celery salt. I love the hot dog. I love everything that's doesn't necessarily, like, up it for me. Herrine: I'm very familiar Like, celery salt like, herbaceousness that, like, already has Erin: Yeah. The anatomy is 50% vegetable. Herrine: Yeah, it's truly I do like the fact that has the most poppy seeds. Erin: Oh, it's very poppied out. Herrine: And it does provide that texture. Like, other places, yeah, they do have, like, the poppy seed bun, but it doesn't really do much. It's more like the aesthetics of it. This place, like, it's there. The bun itself, I do just because the sausage Erin: Yeah, yeah. Herrine: I would have liked, Erin: Or a bigger sausage. Herrine: Or a bigger sausage. But the sausage itself is, like, we got the snap. Herrine: It's very flavorful. Herrine: It's not as fatty as Superdawg's. Erin: Do you like the fresh tomatoes or the pickled tomatoes better? Herrine: Considering the fell off the moment I opened the box.... Erin: I remember that. You tried mine, though. Herrine: I tried yours. I...hmm. I liked the pickled tomato more. Erin: Same. Same, like, by far. Herrine: 'Cause, like, like, a hamburger and it doesn't really add much to it. Do you know what I mean? I agree. And I love but tomatoes are always just like.... Herrine: Do you like Like the relish, the mustard? The relish is super fresh. Herrine: The onion? Erin: Yeah, I actually and the onion and the peppers. But, honestly, the tomato, like, I don't care about her. She's like a friend that, like, you invite to a party She doesn't add anything. Herrine: The flavors Like, if you are person who, like, doesn't really like that pungent, like, acidic-ness that or, like, these sport I think this is, like, of something that, like, Do you think if you it would satisfy you? Like, it would keep you full? Erin: I don't think so. The biggest thing I would Herrine: Uh-huh. Erin: Compared to all the dog gets lost, and and it's just kind of disappearing. It's so juicy, and that that I've ever snapped. Herrine: There was more of Erin: And also the freshness Herrine: Mm-hmm. Erin: I don't feel, like, sick Herrine: The freshness is, like, their biggest strong suit. Erin: Yeah. Herrine: Now is the time Erin: Yes! Herrine: The verdict. Erin: Let's do it. I, like, know my answer. Both: Three, two, one. [laughing] Erin: Yay! Herrine: OK, this was really easy! Erin: Yay! Herrine: So, why for you? Erin: For me, it was, like, a no-brainer because the dog at It was the biggest. The toppings were perfect. They were so flavorful, so fresh. All the pickled onions like, I died for it. Herrine: I agree. I mean, the dog itself was so big that they had to make their own custom buns to fit that dog. And the fact that they put pickled tomato versus, like, the regular fresh tomato I thought added that extra it was the best flavor profile of the combination of toppings. Herrine: You got the salty, Erin: A little sweet too. Herrine: A little sweet, yeah. Herrine: They had it and the fact that the Superfries made it a full, satisfying meal. Erin: Oh, yeah. Herrine: And the experience Erin: So fun, so nostalgic. Herrine: Next to none. Yeah. Erin: Yes. I love a drive-in. Herrine: So, very clearly, Erin: Yay! What do you guys think? Is your favorite Superdawg? Something else? Herrine: Let us know Bye!