- You have to capture in the comic book character. (everyone groaning) - Morphing the canvases into superheroes? I'm not a nerd. I don't tattoo this (upbeat music) - This week, we're testing consistency. - Consistency is being able to show pretty much the same - You must be able to shading, and color, giving There's no better test of consistency than an image so iconic will be obvious. Comic book characters. - Yes. - The challenges of pulling are making it as direct to People that are comic nerds, they know when something's off. - Founded in 1934, DC Comics is home to the world's Like the Green Lantern, and, of course, Batman. But this week you won't You must tattoo a supervillain. - Without villains you Generally, villains are more dynamic than the hero themselves. - You will have six hours to complete your supervillain tattoo. Based on your work, one Good luck. - Consistency comes into It's your line weight. It's your shading, It's your values. It's everything that goes (upbeat music) - I think I do like it - That whip's gonna be - [Canvas] I wanted to - Dude, I don't know what angle but I'm (beep) pumped on this. - I just thought about it, (beep) If I'm going to win it's gonna be because - New school this thing up, buddy. I'll just watch you out of this competition. - You have six hours to tattoo your canvas with a badass supervillain. And your time starts, now. - All right. - All right, let's do it. - I think that's actually My canvas wanted to get It's not possible in six hours. This tattoo is probably that's out there. How would you feel about - [Canvas] Can you show it to me again? - Yep. My idea is to do the head A more dynamic looking picture, anyways. - Would you be doing the background or would it just be the face? - I would try to get the background. - [Canvas] Okay. - It's a hundred thousand I was getting ready to if she said no, you know? - That right? All right, you ready? (tattoo machines buzzing) - I definitely want to try and beat Jimmy. He sneaked out the win last time. It's almost like traditional, which is kind of the cool I need to be consistent in reproducing the actual comic reference. Definitely have to change these needles out to something smaller just to do what we're doing. If I can nail this tattoo, then I might have a chance to win. - I take what I do know of Poison Ivy and create my own version I don't necessarily know that new school is ever going to come but I figured this is that I'm going to get to This is my style of tattooing. So for me, I'm in a good I'm super stoked. - Four more hours. (upbeat music) - This is what I'm booked and months doing, is I really want to show the and the character of Bane. I'm just excited to show something that I'm really, really comfortable with. This thing's going to look (beep) awesome. They're all going to - What Joshua is doing, it's This is a comic book challenge, if something looks too realistic you automatically deserve Anything realistic, you know, I love it. - The fact that the I'm gonna tattoo this a comic book page. $2 a single needle Being so meticulous with these I have to cut this piece in half or there's no way that I'm There's a lot of lines, I'm - That's not a problem. - Tatu Baby's doing with cutting the body off. And I definitely don't see how she can talk (beep) to - Because he has a fresh scar I flipped the image and put The face should always face in. - Once again, time is of the essence. So I rush the damn tattoo. I wish I had a little bit This sucks. - Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. That's it, time's up. - You are done. - Holy (beep). That's - I love the way this looks. Badass, man. It's badass. - [Canvas] Wow - I love it. I really do. - He screwed the pooch. He did not follow the challenge. He took a comic book style tattoo, he did a beautiful new school tattoo. Okay Jimmy, did you come here just to get more new school business or did you come here to compete? - Artists, today we by asking you to tattoo Kyle, you're up first. - The attention to detail that you put into this face is fantastic. The use of the black creates enough depth and enough contrast to where you have the blue and the green transitions to the fiery red in the eyes, And it looks great. Where you get challenged, That black oval, that takes my eye away from what I - There's this balancing where you're trying to get a tattoo done in a certain amount of time. I made it a size I thought and still get the background she wanted. - Joey. - Your attention to Along the legs, along the sides, to see you ink on your canvas the style that I'm familiar I was pretty impressed. 'Cause it's hard enough to do it on paper and you're pulling it off on skin. - I didn't really know until I started how much time that was gonna take. - Yeah. - So I was like second Thank you. - Jackie. - [Oliver] You have a in this thing. - You jacked it up. Because of the very thin, weak it doesn't look solid. It looks too weak. We've been battling line work all along.. - Not all along. Chris, it's no disrespect to you- No, I'm just saying it doesn't It conveys a scratchy line. - [Oliver] Consistency. You made a major alteration You flipped it, therefore now he's burned on the opposite side of his body. So you're basically - It'd be wrong to do that, for sure. - I didn't even think about that. - Jason. - [Oliver] This is probably we've seen from you. There's a lot of great that we've seen lacking - I'm starting to build the flow here and feel a little bit more comfortable getting rid of some of my - Your saturation, These transitions from and the very washed out - I always think that there's room for improvement in every tattoo. - Your consistency in your application is not going to stack up - Joshua. - It seems like you've in this competition. It's good for the supervillain to come out and pound one back at the heroes. Whether they like you or not, they got to suck it up and beat it. It's a really nice job. - [Oliver] Overall, this I think you really captured This smooth shading, all that black, and all that deep shadowing that gives the shape of the very consistent. - You can do (beep) this complex, and make it look this good, You should be able to do All the time. - Tatu Baby. How are you feeling this - I guess I feel a little bit - Well, what you did here, I love. I think you came back really strong. There's some incredible Those teeth are really, really beautiful. The question I have for you, why does it just end the - I had a little bit of issues with time. Doing all those little lines. If I would've gone any lower, than it would have brought - Jimmy. - As the guy who draws Poison Ivy, I think it missed the mark. She should be a seductress. - I don't draw it every day, so... That's your area. - Well, that's why I'm here, I assume. - You missed in capturing the - Bottom line is I'm 100% - [Oliver] This is a game. This is not a comic book tattoo. Today, DC Comic Day, your tattoo should look like a comic book. - I executed the tattoo. I did what I did, and I stand behind it. - [Oliver] We know you can draw. You don't have to prove that to anybody. - The judges have decided that goes to Joey. - Joey, you captured the the danger of Catwoman. It looks like it was peeled from the pages of the I love everything about it. - Thank you very much. - Jackie, Jason, Jimmy, any one of you could Jimmy, you're here because voted that you had the - [Jimmy] Not everyone's but I've been doing it for 20 years. - But you can't stylize something to the point where it's unrecognizable. This is not Poison Ivy. It's a cutesy, little-cartoony, You've missed the essence. - Can't make everyone happy. I did take a risky move, in But a lot of elements won't be here in a while. Joey did an amazing tattoo. Patchwork in that whip ain't going to be there in 10 years. - [Dave] Jackie. - [Oliver] If this was my tattoo, the fact that the wrong side of the - I fell short a little today, but I think that you can - Jason. - All in all, this is one But the colors aren't as saturated as some of the other people's. You and Jackie are battling it out. - All right, guys. The judges have decided. Jackie, you do not have what Please pack your machines and close shop. You have six hours to tattoo And your time starts, now. - Okay, let's do this. - When looking at a color portrait, you're looking for it to be Therefore everything has to be precise. The eyes have to line up, the shading on the nose You have to capture every - [Canvas] Yeah, dude. Can't wait. - [Scott] Let's do it. (rock music) - So I'm feeling really It's coming out exactly Very nice, very nice. The nose, lips, eyes, cheekbones, look exactly like the reference. I love it. - Four hours remaining. - There only could be one Wolverine. - Uh yeah, it might be me. - [1st Canvas] I think it might be me. My guy won the last challenge, so... - Only time will tell, Amigo. - I am so focused. There is no (beep) way that - [Canvas] It's awesome, man. - If he wins, he can validate his skill. If I win, its (beep) cool. - Two hours to go. - Right now, I'm stuck in the And I need to get the - My canvas wanted to get the knives in, but I'm very concerned about time. Very upset that I can't do them. If I don't finish this Because Warpath always has knives, as soon as you take his knives It could just be anybody. - [Canvas] I just hope it looks good. - [Lydia] You think it doesn't look good? I think it will look cool. - Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. That's it, machines down, no more ink. - All right young lady... (sighs) - Wow. That is awesome. - Oh yeah. That's the Awesome. - Today, we asked you to to create an X-Men color portrait. - Lydia. - What happened here with the negative space - He initially had the knives, but I didn't have enough time, so I just figured I'd - What makes this character are those blades. Missing those, it's very difficult for me to know who this is. - Sausage. - [Oliver] I really, It puts a comic book feel - Looking at this tattoo, You have great application. You have really solid fundamentals. Overall man, good job. - Halo. - [Oliver] Your skin tone is That is a good choice. You have to up the contrast or else they're just gonna blend in to the person's natural skin tone. - Roland. - [Oliver] When you're doing a portrait, you got to copy the structure of the face. She does not even have the same shape. The color fades are not there. Color, as you know, is not my forte. - [Oliver] I don't find in this tattoo at all. - Matti. - You gave him some and that puts years on him. But you brought a lot of work to this. I love the way that you in the right side of the face and brought that white highlight to really get that backlit look. That was a really nice touch. And you came and you really - Scott. - [Oliver] You stuck to You kept the likeness of the character. Not going with the dark I think is a wise choice. - This tattoo has a ton That nice clean netting in The glow in the background is nice. It's a good use of color palette. And overall it's a really strong tattoo. - Today, you tattooed the that there is, a color portrait. Roland, you're here because Scott put you up for elimination. Scott, why did you put - I felt that his piece This one, that was it - I will admit this is It's been out of my repertoire, I'm here to (beep) stay here. - Lydia, you're here determined that you had the - As far as my tattoo I don't agree with that. I believe I'm a better - When the human canvas that, for you, is a That's your client base. - It was a tough tattoo to get through and I over-thought it. - Roland and Lydia, either one of you could be packing your machines. The judges haven decided... Roland, you do not have what Please pack your machines and close shop. - Today, we're going to comic book characters. - Oh, I knew it. - The catch is, you have to in the comic book character. (everyone groaning) Morphing the canvases into superheroes? I'm not a nerd. I don't tattoo this - All right Sausage, have a seat. - This challenge is specifically designed to test you at the drawing table. This will definitely separate - All right guys, Sausage You have six hours to use creativity to transform your canvas And your time begins, now. - All right man, and let's do this. - Today, creativity is because these artists are going to have to transform their canvases into superheroes. - That's gonna be awesome. - [Chris] If these artists don't come up with a strong concept, it's and they're going to be out of here. (rock music) - This one's gonna rock. It hits on all cylinders and it does exactly what I was bullied my whole season and now my very first canvas I'm extremely thankful for to come out and prove my work. Because I know what kind but it's tough. This time around, I mean business. I will no longer play nice. Because I have to. Love me because you're - [Canvas] You got this. You're golden. - You're a superhero, Sausage. You're like Super Summer Sausage. - (laughing) You know, I try. - You have four hours remaining. - Hey. - So you didn't go small. (laughing) - Megan and Christian got it out for me. I am screwed on this I have to do a whole back piece for all the crap this guy (sighing) Oh my God Megan and Christian are on my (beep) list. - What's your guy's special power? - A combat medic with angel wings to be able to fly in and - I've never taken my client and actually put them into the tattoo. But I'm an artist, so I don't The other artists should - A hundred grand... - I'll do what it takes, man. - So this is Sweet Tooth. And after a meal, when sweet to eat, she just I need to kill this elimination tattoo. I don't want to wind - [Canvas] She looks so dope. - [Ashley] You like it so far? - Yeah. I gave up everything I stopped going to art school, I dropped out with a semester left. My parents even stopped talking to me. I just want to prove to everyone that I made the right - I am definitely a perfectionist I've never done something this detailed in this amount of time. What should I do? I don't want the same If you're gonna do - Five, four, three, two, one. That is it, time's up, Today, Sausage challenged into a comic book character. Sausage, let's start with you. What comic book character - A comic book character that helped identify with No Bullying. - [Oliver] You had one of but given your canvas in an amazing creative way. - The foreshortening in the You give it that exaggerated Overall, it's a sticker. - Clean. - What comic book character - One of Chasing the Fame. - [Oliver] This is a hard one. I'm just not a fan of the There's areas of technical ability that's the same old Clean approach. Big areas of solid color, when it comes down to the fundamentals of the drawing of this I don't like the girl's hand, I don't like her feet. It's rough. - Anthony. What comic book character - He really wanted to - I like this tattoo a lot. There's a couple of areas where I really get that And a lot of that is that And then in terms of just details, like particularly in the scarf, going over each one of is so intensely amazing. - So far, I like everything You've been consistent to just run this thing to the end. I think you did a hell of a job. - Picasso. - [Oliver] You captured her likeness. You've got a great drawing. It really even has her personality in it. But, her lips, her nose, It looks smeared. It looks like this is on paper and you walked in the rain to get here. - Where did you start - Her hair. - That's where you started, so that's where you were At your most relaxed moment, - I have never done work - Creativity, you're Technically, I find a lot of problems. You gotta pray that somebody - Ashley How did you arrive at this design? - My canvas is a pastry chef, so she wanted to depict a superhero. - [Dave] In terms of creativity, I think you've got a lot But there are some anatomical issues with the way she's posed. - I did try to give you that action shot. - Her left leg, the way that's there's some perspective - [Oliver] You have a big, arm coming off this girl's body that doesn't look like it's coming at you. - All right guys, based on creativity, who had the best tattoo of the day? - By far, the tattoo that is Anthony's. - [Dave] I have to agree, man. Anthony really turned in a - [Oliver] Speaking of creativity, Sausage really put together of this canvases character. - Best tattoo of the day - I'm gonna go with Anthony. - The judges have decided goes to Anthony. - Today, you are judged on creativity. Based on your work, one of you will be packing your machines. It's time to find out who (suspenseful music) Clean, you're here because determined that you had the - I don't agree with that. At all. - They just said, overall, I I was just shocked. I had no idea that I would - Was the jury voting based on or the technical way in which the tattoo was applied into the skin? - Not the technicality. Yeah, just overall the look. - The idea. In my opinion, I think it I love it, man. - Jay, thank you so much for joining us. - All right. Thank you guys. - [Dave] Thanks buddy. - I tried to give him So, my guys chasing the On Ashley's tattoos, I've seen - But I really followed the challenge and what was asked for as - You definitely hit the key - Picasso can draw better than almost anybody I've seen or I know. But he's here because of the And there's just a vast divide between the two of you together and Clean. - I'm not gonna argue that. - You ain't going home. - That's for sure. - I've been in my head I let the (beep) get in my - Here's where I'm having a problem, the gems, look at the that runs right off the top. Like you just took a line and went Brrrr, that is beyond nerves, you're tripping. You're freaking the (beep) - I'm ready to (beep) get out of my head. I'm ready to (beep) stop with complicated drawings. I'm ready to (beep) tattoo. - All right, it's time to decide. Clean, you're not going anywhere today. This is between Picasso and Ashley. - From Ashley we got three We have Picasso down - I'm actually pretty decided. - What do you thinking? - [Dave] I see technical but my vote's for Ashley. The judges have decided, Ashley you do not have what Please pack your machines and close shop. - This pisses me off. I was the most creative that thought out of the box. They wanted a comic book, I I gave them a superhero and I'm going home and it's bull-(beep). (dramatic music)