- Welcome back y'all, we're here with cohost of today. (audience cheering) - Our next guest is the and a school teacher, with She's won pretty much all I love her so much, plus her and a People's Choice Award, this year. (audience cheering) Loading 'em up on the shelf. Her new song is called it's out now, and you heard it was so fun. Everybody give it up for her again, Miss Lainey Wilson! (upbeat country music) - I am so excited, that Have y'all met before? Have you? - We have. - Okay, I was gonna say yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We're big fans of you anyway. - Wow! - Thank you for singing, We rehearsed a tiny bit this morning and I was like, it's your song And, she was like... - If I'm singing with Kelly Clarkson, you gonna take the lead, (crowd cheering) - Anyway, anytime you need I will sing whatever. What's the inspiration behind this song? 'cause I love this song , and country has always been cool to me. I will say 90's country - Well, mine too. - I know, you're like a... it's a musical baby of Dolly (laughing) It is, it is, listen, didn't I hear it? - So good? I'll take it, I'll take it. I mean, country music, where I'm from, is more than just a - Lifestyle, yeah. - And it's so cool to of life becoming cool. - Even in movies and shows - Truly. I mean, I think with the pandemic. I think people really to feel grounded and wanted - Space. - I think country music And of course just the country It's firing off, t's the And I'm proud to be a part of it. - Yeah, and there's so - Like, nobody looks Everybody's got a different story. - Which is nice. - It comes from a different walk of life. I'm really proud to be a of country music, I really am. - Oh, that's so cool. What a cool thing to be because the album is so great. You have a mantra you - I do, I have a few, but the is WWDD, and that is, - WWDD. (laughing) - Y'all see what I did? (audience cheering) Y'all see it, y'all see, I do. I love that woman. - She's kind, so cool, so genuine. Even better in person than on TV. She's awesome on TV but you're like, how are you this nice? - Well, and that's how I mean, I'm not just because know... - No, sometimes you meet - Love that. - I know, they say don't meet your heroes, but it's really cool are just as kind as they are talented. Like, that right there is wild. And she's given me so much advice, and even before I knew her, before I've like got to know her at all, the amount that she taught me, just from the way that She's not scared to go do it all, to straddle that line Like she's this little where probably nobody ever left. And I just look up to her a whole lot. I think she's the best, What would Dolly Do? - I knew I would love her like she contacts people via fax machine. (audience laughing) - I heard that too. - I was like, come again. - I know! - And they were like, no, she to give out, she has a fax machine. I was like, oh my God, Miss 9-5! - I know! - I was like, this is so amazing. - I know, I'm waiting - Oh my God! - I guess I need to get me a fax machine. - I know, Oh my God! - The other thing I was Dolly grew up in this tiny town, and nobody really influenced her singing. No one told her sing more be more like this person. She was in a vacuum. - Oh my God. - And then she came out into That just shows without who would you be, and Dolly - That's right. She is who she is. - And one of a kind. - The coolest, yeah, coolest. - And loved everywhere. - Everywhere. and they know Dolly Parton, - I know, I know. - You're going on tour. - I'm gonna be there, I was like, when are your dates? So I was like, I'll fly But what is your show? 'cause I was telling I don't know if it's Academy you said you did Greece. - Yes, it was. Yep. - Oh my God! Your whole body Everything is singing. - I mean, well, I got to the other night in Vegas, Like you can feel it to the tips of your toes, And also, I know that you - I know. Well, I've covered - Well, I just wanna tell you this and like, this is coming Even when you're up here just covering everybody else's songs, you just learned the words I mean, you were like, you were feeling it for everything that it is. - I love that song, I feel it. - Like, I just wanna say That means so much to me that you got up there and sang Heart Like a Truck. - Oh my God, it means a lot to me that you're writing music that inspires, like especially a jaded, just like 90's country man, like, you know what I'm saying? - But you're singing everybody's songs better than they sing them. - No, I'm not. No I'm not. Because that's the thing too, like, what you were that's the thing I love about your voice. You open up your mouth a baby with like, musical but it's still your sound. Like no one sounds like you. And I'm obsessed with you. And you're going on a big tour, right? - We are, we are. - You're going to Australia too? - We are, I think, is it next week? I don't even know what day it is, but we're going over to Australia, this is my first time - You're gonna love it. Wear that hat. You'll fit in. (laughing) - I'm doing it. And then we're going over to Europe, which I've been over there a few times. I started going in 2018, and the truth is, I had more fans over there - Interesting. - But we're going over we're gonna be out of the and then we're coming back, and then we are kicking off here in the US, and we're going everywhere, so. (audience cheering) - I am coming, so excited! We have to do a commercial Lainey's new song is called check it out wherever you get your music.