I argued empathy is a poor moral guide. It's biased. It's enumerate. It zaps the spirit. It can be weaponized to make us worse people. But one question I often get is what replaces And in my book I make a distinction between Now a lot of people think the terms mean the You can use whatever words you want. But psychologically there are two different One is what I've been calling empathy which shoes. I feel your pain and that has all sorts of But a second distinct process is compassion I care about your welfare but I don't necessarily Now you might say well that's just a verbal exists. But there's some really cool research exploring I was at a conference in London and I bumped He was hard to miss, long saffron robes, beatific The happiest man on earth. And I got to talking to him and he asked me against empathy. And to me that felt kind of awkward but I against empathy. But he said oh, empathy. Of course you should be against empathy. And he began to tell me about his research neuroscience research that distinguishes empathy was looking for where they put people in scanners, in empathy meditation where you feel the suffering You imagine feeling it. And you compare that to compassion meditation Loving kindness they call it. Without any empathic connection. And this work which was done in collaboration a real sharp difference where empathy is exhausting, you withdraw. Compassion is exhilarating, it's energizing, makes you approach. It makes you more likely to help. And since then there's been other researchers. Some work by David DeSteno out of Northwestern And I'm naturally skeptical about this work. A lot of claims about mindfulness meditation be cautious about them. But DeSteno's work has been replicated a And the finding is it makes us nicer. It makes us more compassionate and more kind And there's not exactly consensus as to is it makes us nicer because it dampens our Less empathy, more compassion, more kindness. A lot of relationships are based on other empathy gets in the way. So think about what you want from a doctor You want them to understand you. You want them to care about you. But do you want them to feel your pain and On the one hand if they do so, they'll be They'll suffer from burnout. If a therapist sees a series of patients for their anxiety, their fear, their anguish she But more than that it would make them less Think about what you want when you see a doctor Do you want the doctor to be anxious? No, you want the doctor to respect you, to about you. But not to echo your anxiety or your fear. Certainly for a therapist if I go to see my want her to get deeply depressed. Now I have two problems. I have me and I have her. I want her to look at me with that therapist I want her to have some distance from me so and to providing a more realistic perspective. Or take parenting. You might have a teenage son or teenage daughter maybe he or she left the homework for the A good parent does not freak out along with A good parent says okay, calm down. Let's take a minute. Let's figure out what to do. Take a breath. And is supportive and calm and loving. But doesn't inherit the anxieties and sufferings Part of what it is to love somebody is not go away. Now it is complicated. In intimate relationships I think there is Often we want to share our feelings and we Sometimes in a romantic relationship, a couple, upset and wants their partner to feel the Sometimes if you have a kid and your kid is enthusiasm is important. I don't doubt that empathy plays some such I think when we think hard about what other a good friend, a good parent what really matters often gets in the way. In some way my book is an optimistic book and how empathy leads us astray. But in order to make that argument we also enough to realize that empathy could lead act so as to override its pernicious effects. So it's empathy that causes me to favor doesn't. Or somebody from my country or ethnicity over But it's rationality that leads me to say There's no reason to do it. It's not fair. It's not impartial. And so we should try to override empathy. So what I argue is that we have the capacity This is actually fairly controversial. In my field my fellow psychologists, philosophers, of their emotions, that we're fundamentally And that reason plays very little role in And a good one of the main goals of my work Now there's a specific argument that is argument at all which is to say well, determinism What we do, how we act, how we think is the long time ago plus physical law. We are physical creatures. We can't escape from causality so we'll And for the most part I actually agree with I think that notions of more responsibility But I think determinism is correct but none And as an illustration you could imagine a is also entirely rational. You could imagine another computer that's arbitrary and random. And so even in a deterministic universe the we. Are we emotional creatures or are we rational But there is nothing, not the slightest bit live in a determined universe and that we're