This video was made possible by high-quality documentaries and get the description. In the 1960s the leader ships that could jump over bridges. His What he was talking about was a machine unlike anything the world had ever seen. A ship that could move as fast as an water. And for decades the Soviets shroud of secrecy. But these giant, disappeared along with the Soviet Union. In the 1950s, the fastest boats in the with wings attached to its hull. And they speed, the wings would lift the boat out much higher speeds. But even the fastest 110 km/h. Held back by a phenomenon known as cavitation, which disturbed the lift generated by a engineers would never solve. But a the name of Rostislav Alexeyev had a out of the water entirely? Doing so would aerodynamics. But it would allow for Alexeyev's ships were moving fast enough, But they wouldn't fly like aircraft. just above the surface. Pilots had long close to the ground, their planes would they didn't want to land. This phenomenon use it to revolutionize ships. To prove Alexeyev built scale models and small more resources to fully develop the to happen in 1960s Soviet Union, was if potential of his idea. Alexeyev ships were called Ekranoplan. speeds, low to the surface where Being completely out of the water, they'd right over sea mines. With her small shallow coastlines and beaches they promised to be relatively cheap and shipbuilding construction. Alexeyev and even Soviet Premier Nikita projects, Khrushchev immediately saw potential in a technology that the Americans didn't funding blew open. And Alexeyev and his Over a period of just five years, they more than a few tons, to this. It was a machine that looked straight travel at over 500 kilometers an hour completed in 1966, it was by far the impressive lift-to-drag ratio unmatched machine into ground effect, eight forward underneath the wings, creating a effect, the forward jet engines were shut keep 600 tons of machine moving at stories high, was used to counter the the ground effect and to provide control First tested in 1966, the KM proved that Ekranoplans could be scaled way up. But it also revealed some serious flaws. Far from robust, the KM demanded careful maintenance. It's ten jet engines were at constant risk of damage from saltwater It was also notoriously difficult to effect was an exhausting experience for distances to turn. Which meant that warning about other ships and obstacles. Supposedly that KM could operate in bad. But you'll never find a photo or And getting this enormous machine moving So the KM could only operate when inland seas like the Caspian. Travelling These were the kind of challenges facing an engineering team developing an ground up. With further development have resolved many, if not all of the By the time the KM made its first flight, the entire mood had shifted. Brezhnev was Ekranoplan development as an more conventional military projects. And was demoted from director of the dwindling Ekranoplan program. With many Alexeyev and his engineers shifted their smaller, more practical Ekranoplan. One troops, roll onto beaches, and even added capabilities came with compromises. line with a similarly sized seaplane. But about Ekranoplans, only Navy. Alexeyevs Ekranoplans were Union's economic failures. With dwindling Alexeyev butted heads with Soviet with Soviet bureaucracy finally caught down to the position of an ordinary but not before a final a Ekranoplan was large as the KM, it carried six anti-ship over 100 kilometers away. But only a would never see it fly. In 1980, he passed fully realized his vision. Funding for Ekranoplan development wound down by the mid-1980s. And after the Soviet Union built were quickly pulled from service, development. But a belief in the within the former Soviet Union and development focused on smaller ground intriguing question still unanswered. demonstrated that the more massive an Ekranoplan got, the better it flew. Becoming more stable, flying higher, and a machine much larger than even the KM potential? A machine that would fly 10 or oceans. And potentially carry passengers and aircraft. But thus far, efforts to build the immense resources needed for the time being, giant Ekranoplan will I have a fascination with all things Not so much this. But this. Which is why I just finished watching The series that chronicles the extraordinary West went to learn each other's Cold War of full-length documentaries you can $19.99 for an entire year, incredible deal. But sign up using the Nebula, where you can watch Mustard videos Without ads or sponsor messages. Nebula content without worrying about YouTube's Productions recent 45 minute special on how an airport once dubbed the world's remote Atlantic island. Get access to Curiosity Stream by going to CuriosityStream.com/mustard and using the promo code 'mustard' when you sign up.