Welcome to the MEP Academy, we're going to from Civil, to Structural, to Architectural, we're going to cover them all and talk This is the cover sheet. This shows where the or the City, and it's shown in this outlined area larger blow up of that area on this side here. Say some lakes around here, there's an airport, a General idea where the project is located. This that are located in this construction set. You then you have the &quot;G&quot; which is the project overall which are the Civil drawings, you have the which is the Architectural drawings, and then Structural drawings, and then the &quot;M&quot; drawings, and this particular nomenclature also uses So, the Plumbing drawings are and then you have the &quot;E&quot; drawings So, this cover sheet shows the general location of in this construction set. This is one of the Civil You can see these are parking stalls, and and on the civil grading plan you'll notice all the different elevations. So, the closer the lines is, or the grade is. So this is seven one twenty as you can see over here if we started at 71.06, 71.07, 71.08, that means we're driving up a 14, 15. So, you can see the distance between here and so 71.50 70.17 ,18, 19. 19 seems to be the you go around the parking lot here you can see 71.16. So, now we're starting to grade down, and until we get over here 71.10, 71.09, 71.07 they're building is up on a slight hill, and show you, are is the grading, this parking area on this one here is a Sewer Plan and Profile and if we look at this closer we can see and then here is the road. You can see this side So this road is cut into the hillside, and then and then if we look below you can see the So, here's the profile and what it shows is the top of the road coming down the hill, and mesh of lines, but it'll show the invert you can see it's an 8&quot; inch PVC sewer and it's sloped at certain percentage, but drive with the pavement, and manhole number of 70.25 in and out. So, the elevation is the manhole or the bottom of the pipe, and in and and the bottom of the pipe going out. a little bit higher than the pipe going out. That of the Landscape drawings. This shows building here, some shrubs in here. It gives a list of what I'll zoom in over here so you can see that they see the outline, the circle here, they're going to to 3 parsley hawthorns, and then they got 53 Wood the plants, bushes, shrubs, where to be planted, drawing. This shows the irrigation layout and if we look at this a little closer we and then it runs along, goes into a PVC sleeve damaged, and then it runs over to a controller, So, that's a minute, and here's for an hour. If and then tied to that controller number 9 is a plants and the shrubs, you can see how long all the way out to here, it ends and then the then feeds another drip line around all these up controllers, you can see controller 9, 10, 11, flexible PVC drip hose that goes and makes sure Okay this is the Architectural plan. This shows is the key plan. So, if you look at this building, only shown the hatched area of that building. what's shown on this drawing it's only part of the building you see, that will be shown on other drawings. is you have your bathroom, you can see the which will be shown on the plumbing better, but Let me zoom in on this and you can see it says it's three feet, nine feet you can see better the water closets, this here's your urinals in the men's bathroom, sinks, and then out the door. This is a chase. This this will be all pipes back here for the plumbing, got the janitor's closet over here, which has a cuts. This says that you'll find a detail A-15 detail number &quot;E&quot;, and the same a detail of what that looks like as if you were this way as the direction of this is pointing for and you look this way you're going to look at show you what this wall looks, like over here and of &quot;B&quot; which is this way you're going to see what can show what he wants for the finishes on these have a section cut which will cut the whole which they're showing the match line here see cuts the drawing is this dark line here, it's the the continuation of this building going that this is a renovation. So, it's going to show but what this does have is a section right here. It's going to cut the building along and what it's saying is on that particular drawing of what this looks, like cutting the building arrow is pointing. So, I'll show you that section right, and you can see the end of that cut is detail, but I'll show you a few other things other drawing you have all these views. View &quot;A&quot; the Architect can give you an idea what it looks what this says is A-2, which is this drawing. So A 36 architectural drawing number 36 detail &quot;A&quot;. here and this detail here are the same. So all this wall is made of. So he wants to make sure you but out here you'll see &quot;A&quot;. So &quot;A&quot; is going the outside standing there. So we'll look at So here's the elevation view from outside. What plans on this depending on how many sides of is the &quot;East Elevation&quot; and detail &quot;A&quot; that shows veneer, he's got some columns here, and then here, but without the arcade and the courtyard walls, the walls are behind. So you can see the side of see he's got windows,, here's your doors double is at the bottom, and then there'll be several here that will match up with your floor plan heights if you're trying to figure out heights your sheet metal ducts, you can always look at i'll show you. Now that they cut the auditorium building sections. So, this is where those cuts a certain direction, as you can see here's that the auditorium, as you can see here's the seats your stage, or your screen that people watch. there's your column lines. Here's another you can see what it looks like inside This is the structural foundation and floor when you're doing Mechanical work is to check In this case to read the beam size, all I'll blow this up here so you can see this is a it means it's 12 inch deep beam and it weighs you can see this is 5 by 5 by a quarter. So right concrete in the ground that's holding this tube inches by quarter inch thick, and they're tying and weigh 26 pounds per foot. So you can see from that beam runs along there tied to these joists. So for the Structural most of the time fit, and you just got to learn the nomenclature It's going to show the column lines, these should match the Mechanical and Electrical and that will get you started at least All right, here's one of the HVAC Mechanical the Heaters, the Sheet Metal duct, and the we have the equipment. There's Unit 1. Here's Makeup Air Unit number 2. into this, through this louver from outdoors into into this unit where the fan is. The fan's in blowing it through this duct work, through here. there through the duct and then it comes out a that grill in the ceiling of the women's room is a So, and there's the duct, it's 18&quot; by 12&quot;. There's So this is a fire rated wall here, dampers in it, and over here is more dampers. So So here's the return, so this fan coil is ceiling and the return pops off the bottom and supply off the front. This is a flex this helps absorb some vibration. Here's the duct, and over here you'll have a transfer Here's an Exhaust Fan in the men's room, exhausting above the water closet, is through that deck all the way down and out the soffit louver, a 12&quot; by 12&quot; soffit louver, as you'd want to look at to make sure he's going to Here's another Mechanical plan, this is and you can see the auditorium section view. You can see that there's Handler. Basically an Air Conditioner, and Remember this is a section view, so what it's drawn in kind of hokey there. Here's a Fire Here's one of those fire smoke dampers, and he's shown on M-16, Detail &quot;F&quot;, but you can see all the got the fire main showing up there and more ducts. and you can see up here an exhaust louver. So, out of the building, and you remember your usually indicative of a return duct, and your X, So, you got supply coming off the front of the off the top of the Air Handler with these flex and you can see the outline of the building. here's some kind of architectural skylight, but and here's your duct. So the way you read the 14&quot; is the dimension you're looking 20&quot; by 32&quot; you're looking at the 20&quot; inch this section, that should match what Okay this is another Mechanical drawing. This all the valving and the equipment associated your heating hot water system. And let me blow So he's calling this a cChilled Water, but this you got Boilers. So this is the Heating Hot Water pads on the ground, and here's the supply coming thermometer, and it's tying into the main. Here's that goes, and here's an Air Separator Here's your pumps over here. Pump three and pump side. this is discharge. So your water is going up hot water supply, and here's return coming and so basically this diagram is to show you all some of the valving he wants. You can see the makeup water here for the 3/4&quot; inch makeup water refer to Plumbing the makeup water and you'll tie in. You This is the Plumbing plan. This shows sewer on a different drawing in this particular but it helps to make it less congested if you So this drawing shows the domestic water, and if goes to an exterior hose bib. So this is, you can wash the bushes, whatever. And over here this is maybe for your ice maker. There are showers right, And down here you got the water closet, so and then the pipe runs in the ceiling, above and feeds these urinals, and this last water for these lav's. These are your sinks. Again it's and then these circles indicate it's dropping more sinks, more showers. Here's a janitor service this is where the water main comes in, and And then here's the pneumatic tank, and then it and this is going to go and make the So now cold water line feeds the water heater and water feeding the building. Okay, this is another This will show all the waste pipe and the vents. is where the main waistline, it's dotted, that we can see this is where it comes five feet outside the building, is where the of this will show in the civil drawing over this is in case there's a clog, they can clean it You see this is in the courtyard. So there may and then it goes up and continues, and it feeds you got a floor drain in the So that waste pipe is picking up all that waste clean out. So you can run a snake through then you have the vents, these are the skinny and then it will go up through the roof at some and that will vent that whole line there, as and it's underground, it's dotted, and you can So they had to cut the beam for the and then once again you see a sleeve through and we pick up these sinks. Here's So everything gets drained through that and then another branch, all this underground. to be buried, and then you can see there's, got and then this vent is going to run through the the other fixtures, and then it's going to find is 3&quot; inch vent through roof. So you got your the ground, and that's basically what's going to up all your plumbing fixtures, so that the waste Now this is another plumbing drawing. This This is really helpful when you're doing it helps you visualize all the parts and pieces thing we looked at the plan view, but now it's this is where we came in, the main was coming in, floor clean out. So you can see it's coming up to picking up these WC's which are the water closets. going over to the water closet, and then you can and then the vent through the roof, which we all this is in the ceiling space, and these coming from these underground pipes, these you can see comes over here, he picks up a picks up the floor drain. It's sitting on the and maybe he uses a hose and washes it down, So the isometric is a nice overall view of what is see this waste here, this branch coming off the then it's going to pop up and it's going to pick So this is probably a back-to-back LAV. There's or they can be in the same room, but you got two those sinks to function properly, that will Here's the fire protection plan, it's a outside the building there's a fire they need to pressurize the system. Here are the to cover a certain area, and the pipes their sprinkler heads. All this design per very simple. Okay, here's one of the Electrical can see the buildings over here. Here's the main schedule 80 conduit, and they have a nice It gives an overall of what's going on. So we can ,and a meter by the power company, and then that's is your main distribution panel. This is a cabinet circuits in addition to providing each circuit and then you can see feeding panel &quot;A&quot;. so you can see that that line going from the has four number three wire. So, basically this is in the conduit. So, it's a 2&quot; inch conduit that number two feeds panel &quot;B&quot;, again the quantity So that's coming from the main distribution indication of a transformer, and here's some but back over here you can see that that 4&quot; inch panel, and you can see coming out of there are panel boards A, B, C and D. So coming out of you can see the call out here. Here's panel board conduits, and you can see it's a number 4, coming from the main distribution panel which Now we'll look at the lighting You can see that all these lights and they have occupancy sensors. So, that if and they tie into, you see this which circuit in the panel board that here's the panel board schedule &quot;CS&quot; schedule This is the power plan. So, you see on that you have these circuits that go to the panel this is a hand dryer and it's feeding to circuit outlets near the shower that are GFCI rated call outs for the actual circuit in the Subscribe for additional videos we will and Plumbing Estimating, Engineering, Best Practices for mostly commercial