(door creaks) - I knew it. Who the fuck are you? - Who the fuck are you? - I'm the bitch about to - I'm sorry, I didn't know he was married. - Here's a situation I in a month of Sundays. This is my daughter. She can be a little overprotective. Put the knife down, honey. - Dad, if you're gonna hire a hooker, would you please let - Beth. - Hope you didn't pay full - Actually, God gave me these for free. Looks like he gave me yours too. - It's seven in the fucking morning. I do not have the energy for this shit. Now put it down. She's a guest in our house. (knife clatters) - I'm calling an Uber. - No, you're not. - Can you drive me into town, please? - Can y'all just calm the A nice breakfast? And then, yes, I'll drive - I'll get dressed. (couple kisses) - Ah! Mm. I'm too old for this shit. I'm too old for her, I'm too old for that I'm just too old for all of it. - You weren't too old for some of it. - You know... Be nice to her. - Is there anything to eat that didn't have a heartbeat last week? - Uh... - Orange juice didn't have a heartbeat. - Is it non GMO? - I'm not sure what that means. - It means a scientist of the orange to make more - I just buy big bags - Do you like wheat grass? - I do. - We have a whole field of it. Hey, Gator, would you go out back, pick some wheat grass, She's gonna love it. - You grow wheat grass? - We grow wheat. Which is a grass. Until it heads out, then it's a grain. - That's a different kind of wheat. - No, see I know you think at Jamba Juice, but no, - Gator, Summer is a vegan. Could you make her something - Or milk. - Or milk. - Or butter. Maybe some pancakes. - [Summer] I don't eat gluten. - What's gluten? - So wait, you'll eat the wheat grass but you won't eat the seed. - Our bodies aren't designed to digest it. - Who told you that? - My doctor never told me that. - Well, you should get a new doctor. - You should get tested for - Okay, Beth. That's it. All right, she is my guest. You will treat her with - I got a meeting anyway. Love you, Daddy. - I hope you find a - I hope you die of ass cancer. - You know, she can, um... - She's a little old to be jealous of the women her father spends time with. - Yes, she is. - And the cowboy (clears throat) I'll be outside. No. - Well, that went to shit - It did seem to go pretty fast, sir. - Yeah. - Our justice system is in a And to think of all the hard work I did to put you in prison. - And think of all the hard And I do mean hard. - I'll pick you up some to kill whatever funk your - Mm, thanks. Could you also get me a toothbrush? I hate to keep using yours. Oh well, back to work. - I am not starting this day sober. (glass clinks) One big, happy family. And an assistant. And a hooker. I don't know what could (dishes clank) - So, Gator, what did you - Sorry, I didn't know I would've picked a different - She's going to be here so a vegetarian option each meal would be- - Vegan. A vegan option, please. - Gator, just give her - (laughs) Oh shit, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is just so fucking uncomfortable. - Can we eat? - Summer, let's you and I take a walk, yeah? Maybe I can help educate you Our different cultures, our - You have values? - [Beth] Let's take a walk. - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, girls. - Girls? Do you see a girl in this room, Dad? Hmm? After you. - Not on your life. (family laughs) - Sir, do you want me to go after them? - I think that's a terrible idea, Rip. Gator, let's, uh... Let's eat while we still can. I'll take four of 'em. (family laughs) You can't make this up. - Sir, I'm a bit worried about them. - (laughs) You probably should be. - I thought take a walk was a metaphor. You actually meant it. - Nope. - (groans) Oh! - It was a metaphor. Familiar position for you? - You smug, spoiled, You're everything that's - The only thing wrong with (fist smacks) No, no, look at me. (fist smacks) (Summer groans) (Summer laughs) Your turn. (Summer pants) (solemn music) This is my fucking house. You will show me and do you understand? - What respect do I get? - You'll get exactly what you give. (gentle music) You hungry? - I'm fucking starving. Not sure I can chew anything. - Well, just swallow it whole. Shouldn't be a problem for you. Shit, I'm sorry. We're not doing that anymore. Let's go eat. - I should get cleaned up. You should, too. - I don't hide from what I do. I wanted to fight, so we fought. Let 'em look. Come on. - Morning. - Hey. - Hey. Hey. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Look at all you sluts. - You're sitting here, too. I doubt you just wandered to take in the view. - Yeah, well, I'm a married woman. But you tramps... - Ah, yes, that arcane ritual where you stand before family and friends and swear before God deity that you will surrender your independence and obey the man you are betrothed to. - (laughs) Betrothed? - See, what Summer's is that marriage is designed and control a woman. You know, if you married to but if you married the love of your life, the mirror to your soul, it's pretty fucking great. - I thought we agreed to get along. - We did. I didn't agree to placate where every institution and every custom is designed to oppress. - They are. - They are what you make 'em, babe. - I'm going to take a shower. - You could probably use one. (Summer laughs) What are you doing here? - What do you mean? - My father's gone. Why aren't you with him? - I'm on house arrest. I can't go with him. - Well, you were with him at - I don't make the rules. He said stay, so I stayed. - Oh, well, I'll say this. When you forsake feminism, you go all in. You're almost Amish. - I don't have a choice, - Don't sell me that bullshit, Summer. You were with him last - With his stormtroopers - Well, you didn't look sucking his tongue down your throat. It's hard to play the victim, - Why does it bother you so much that I see in him exactly what you see? - I have no desire to - You know what I mean. - Where's your dad live, huh? I'll go fuck him. Don't touch my Tito's. - I drink Scotch. - 'Course you do, with Oh, and let's get one thing clear. You touch my peanut M&amp;Ms in the freezer, I will kill you in your sleep. - I sleep with a knife and - You know, we might make it through this. - If you're done insulting me, I have something I need to show you. Come here. - And it is for those people, that the Attorney General's office, under article five and section is requesting a Senate - The assembly voted 67 to 33 in favor. Now, that subjects Governor John Dutton to the first impeachment (tense music) - That motherfucker. Fsck. I forgot all about you. - I don't know what to do. - Well, whatever you do, - You look like you're dressed for court. - Something like that. - I can't leave, I'm - Summer, you know there is no with an asterisk, right? He told you house arrest and you were dimwitted enough to do it. You never bothered to Never bothered to look at The one stamped &quot;released.&quot; - Why wouldn't he tell me that? - Well, in the immortal &quot;If a man isn't willing he doesn't want one bad enough.&quot; That's my guess, anyway. - [Summer] So I'm free to go? - You have been free to go, Summer. And I really wish that you would. No offense, it's been a hoot. But it is time to get - I don't have- - A car? It's not a problem. We got cowboys and trucks I'm gonna drive you down to the barn, and you're gonna ask That's the wrong direction. - I'm just getting my stuff. - I'll be in the car. (tense music) (engine revs) (tires screech) - Your dad once said to me- - I am not discussing my father with you. - I know you're hurting, but- - There is no &quot;but.&quot; You were right the first time, and I am not discussing him with you. Okay, bye. I wish you the best, I do. And please, will you stop throwing paint on people's clothes? What do you think the woman when you dump a ton of paint on it? Huh? She buys another mink - I'm gonna be the bigger person. - Well, yay for you. - I admired your father. He taught me a lot about this and I'm a better person - Well, that's not saying much, is it? - I hope you donated your body to science so doctors can study - Well, I didn't. Close the fucking door. (door thumps) - Whatever you do, don't get in a wreck!