[calm music] [narrator] For thousands of years, Up until what is probably the greatest It is safe to say that no other invention in such a profound way. [calm music] [narrator] But this milestone [ice splashing into water] [crackling fire] [blowing storm] [narrator] At the same time the population The demand for food is incredibly high. We've got to find a way But in a more sustainable way [narrator] A new global movement New technologies are expected while going easy on the environment. [cartoon character noises] But how did we get from here... ...to this cockpit? What does a coconut have to do And can new technology really save [theme music] [calm spheric music] [narrator] Revolutionary agricultural This refers, for example, the condition of each single plant. Systems that milk cows - faster than any person could. And autonomous field robots [laser buzzing] And there's this thing now which is the idea of sort of using, farming on the internet as much as possible to make in a hope of finding but not completely [working harvester] [narrator] Agriculture has a clear goal: Already 7.7 billion people By 2050, this number [calm music] It means that even bigger quantities because of growing populations. [narrator] That the demand for food is a rather new phenomenon. [calmly pulsating music] [nostalgic music] Just 300 years ago, the global population Their tools were simple. The plough is one our oldest pieces It is used to loosen the soil The plough is a very basic invention not just for agriculture, [narrator] About as early Egyptian farmers used ploughs In the beginning, to remove the stones Later oxen were used Over millennia, hardly any changes There were, however, changes with regard In Egypt, camels joined the ranks. [arabic music] In 18th century Europe, horses also pulled This film footage from 1935, gives an idea After ploughing, the field is harrowed But this method leaves These seeds will not germinate. failed harvests and famines If you go back to the 18th century, and actually a loss of yield in crops, Remember that they're not only they're producing for themselves as well. And you don't have things where you can go So even a small yield in crop on those farmers to even survive themselves, [narrator] Three-field crop rotation of crop failure and thus also famine. In the autumn, one third of the field Once it has been harvested in the spring, Now they plant potatoes, The last third is left to lie fallow This method established itself By using the three-field-system, two harvests a year, and community fed year around. [narrator] In the 18th century, with this standard agricultural hand tool In Great Britain it consists of - a hard center layer A scythe is indispensable but it's certainly not suitable You can divide the world farming land what we now think of fairly as there's the scythe zone and it really just tells you about You know, scythes are designed so you're harvesting those. Whereas if you've got tall vegetation, [narrator] The machete is It can be used to chop open a coconut [mowing grass] In Nag Hammadi, Egypt, to harvest sugarcane today. Harvest hands need to be able since they don't have a lot of time. After sunrise, the sweet juice flows Once the harvest is complete, It's not only delicious but healthy, too. Among other things, For farming one doesn't just need tools. In the Nag Hammadi region, by one of the world's longest rivers For millions of years, the soils of the Nile Delta About some 5000 years ago, a sophisticated irrigation system To this day, pumps direct into a wide network of channels. So, the Nile Delta was historically that fed the whole area very well, it historically had. And then on top of that, So, it's a sort of twofold problem [narrator] While the plants growing salinity will eventually render Currently farmers are remedying Over the long-run, however, This problem isn't limited to Egypt. In January of 2018, The countdown to >>Day Zero<< would flow through the water mains - Strict water conserving measures But for how long? [burbling of water] Heatwaves are one of the main reasons In 2019 month for month, Paris reached a new record high to 42.6 degrees Celsius. In New Delhi temperatures Across the globe, extreme heat destroys depending on how robust [threatening music] Farmers are certainly seeing becoming worse and worse, sinking groundwater levels weather fluctuations [narrator] Another problem for farmers This is also the case in Brazil. In 2019, more fires broke out Climate activists believe were started to make room They speculate and farmers are behind these activities. All the while, has an important function. Plants absorb the greenhouse gas CO2 It's the reason why the Amazon is Fires, on the other hand, which further heats up the earth. Greenhouse gasses are one of A main producer is agriculture In 2019, agriculture ranked way up there the transport sector. If we continue to produce the earth will warm up by approximately Current forecasts from the Intergovernmental [Martin Archer] But let me tell you that it is over the entire planet 4.5 degrees is just the average. is much more extreme weather events, extreme things like tornadoes large parts of our planet becoming [narrator] But it's not too late yet. We are on the verge Agriculture 4.0 will fight two The climate crisis But how will it work? [calm music] Precision farming is this idea of your specific fields, your crops, like weather data and things like that. Harnessing that to actually try and [narrator] Scientists at are developing such a precision tool. The objective is to use as little water, while keeping the harvest stable [drone buzzing] We have hot spells - especially in certain stages We are dealing with a scenario insane amounts of rain And we also have storms and hail events CropWatch can help identify [narrator] Scientists want to get to To this end, they survey the ground Sensors collect data. your fingerprint pad knows that it's you. It can track the way and sense what kind of person and your preferences. Now, those sensors can also so that we can really get in terms of food and nutrients. [drone buzzing] [narrator] The drone Just like this elevated tractor. Cameras take photos of each single plant [tractor engine noise] The mobile weather station And these ground sensors An experienced farmer can walk whether there are pests. The second thing is what type weed he's dealing with Problems arise when the farms get too big, to keep an overview. And peering into the soil In other words, the farmer won't know For that he would need sensors. [tractor engine noise] [narrator] Not all farmers would want A realistic solution would be Farms could hire a small team along with Farmers are not computer programmers, So, I definitely see that sort of that provide the service [narrator] The new technology - long before a professional farmer Agriculture 4.0 is likely in terms of farming in the future. But this is the same thing that happened with the onset of [narrator] The revolution of machines: At the beginning of the 19th century, an ingenious farming implement. Within the past hundred years, evolved into a turning plough The new plough had of not only breaking up the soil This kills the weeds. So, although ploughing using it was still relatively slow and clunky on humans and animals [narrator] Trevithick, that there is a better solution. Ten years earlier, he had already invented that actually worked. And it is Trevithick, once again, a steam engine for farming. At first no one really cared and human labour was much cheaper. But then as time went on, it became harder [narrator] In the outgoing 18th century, attracts people into the cities, greater prosperity and educational In Europe and in the US there are Farming is a dying profession. At the same time, the rural exodus The growing factories are dependent on They need more and more manpower [banging tools] For the farmers that were then left over. because they had to feed all these people And so, they started to harness such as the steam engine [narrator] It wasn't until now greater significance for farming as well. Horses pull the heavy engines where they run Since leasing fees are steep, farmers try I mean, these machines So, the owners of these machines and they were often given the best food whenever they came around. [narrator] In the mid-19th century, is in full swing. Engineers are operating at full stretch But the steam engines of the time You're regularly getting sparks and that's not great because They were also prone to explosions. And that's obviously not only it's going to ruin the farmers as well. There were a lot of deaths and these [narrator] Exploding steam engines in cities as well as in the country. John Froehlich, an American engineer, of flying sparks from steam engines. In the autumn of every year, to help with the harvest. In the prairie the danger of fires But also, handling Froehlich was frustrated with having He wanted to design something and was powered by gasoline engine. Unfortunately, it didn't There was not the demand. So, he was on the right track, it didn't work out for him. [narrator] But Froehlich didn't give up. In the following 26 years, with safer petrol engines. -[cheerful music] WWI shocked people around the globe. Only now does the demand like John Froehlich's tractor grow. Farmers and agricultural workers The workforce is stretched thin. >>Deere and company<< are one of farming implements And back then, they were keeping And when the time is right, which they called the >>Waterloo Boy<<. [narrator] The >>Waterloo Boy<< The Deere company alone sold For the first time it is tractors Over the course of the following decades, Ever new and improved tractors [cheerful music] It's a true all-rounder. Regardless of the weather. The tractor began its triumphal march It was deployed for or to plough rice paddies in Laos. The tractor is the most important piece since the Industrial Revolution. Today it takes just one person with a 12-cylinder engine Hybrids made of tractor and farm machinery that help with the maintenance of plants. But these giants Along with the Agriculture 4.0 movement is actually reaching its limits. Arable land is becoming and soils are becoming infertile. So now, the perception is [narrator] We have reached We have to rethink our farming practices. Not only is the The use of water and chemicals &quot;Less is more&quot; is the new mantra. >>CropWatch<<, focuses on targeted use of water and chemicals. The main work Scientists look for recurring patterns The plant is less green than expected. It forms chlorotic spots which makes it look yellowish or brown It is precisely these areas [narrator] Scientists feed So if the software now finds yellow leaf This information can be accessed by To prevent this data from falling it is stored locally on a server Farmers don't want to share You know, they have their trade secrets, that they don't want So, data security, is also a big problem for farmers, [narrator] Programs like CropWatch They enable very targeted decisions water, fertilizer and pesticides. In future, revolutionary agricultural to cut down on their water use and their use of pesticides The advantage of Agriculture 4.0 to be better for the environment to try and do exactly We're trying to remove and try and keep things as sustainable [narrator] At this time, farmers cannot This is neither possible in conventional Organic farmers simply spray different Natural chemicals, however, Farmers these days do need Not only because we have but also because consumers Most consumers are very fussy about They like the apples to be perfectly round and worms and so on. In order to do that, various chemical technologies to ensure [narrator] We cultivated that they offer higher yields. New techniques even allow us But these new super plants Many modern crop plants to diseases and insect infestation. Farmers are obliged I mean, the trouble with pesticides is which are specifically killing Typically, if it kills an aphid, like honeybees, too. And in general, that is designed to be toxic it's probably toxic to us [narrator] This has been known In the 1930s, a typhus epidemic Lice are the main culprits for the rapid They weren't able to harness because they were incredibly expensive So, it was a real problem [narrator] Paul Muller, a Swiss chemist, - known today as Novartis - It's one of the biggest Muller was commissioned to develop that is non-toxic for humans He was struggling. a whole lot of glass boxes, that he had sort of devised, and see which ones worked. [narrator] The chemist's experiments - altogether 349 times. It wasn't until September 1939 He had this compound it killed the flies, so, And even without putting it, It was so effective. [narrator] Muller had discovered And he swore [threatening music] [narrator] WWII ripped the people And they weren't just [eerie sounds] So, these poor soldiers, all the bombs and guns to worry about. But there were also these diseases which are spread by pests and insects [narrator] DDT, it seemed, The Swiss company Geigy and to the German military. Soldiers are now armed with Germans also deploy DDT on farms [propeller-driven aircraft engine] After the war had finished, to farmers and even to just some civilians that could get rid of all these [advertising-speaker] Aerosol of and mosquitoes in contact. And the operation [narrator] Shortly after DDT scientists discover that some insects And what's even more worrying: [eerie sounds] The American biologist Rachel Carson the use of DDT and other insecticides. In her book >>Silent Spring<<, she shines a light and links it Carson's work attracted from the pesticides industry, was completely condemned But then John F. Kennedy kind of He ordered a committee and her findings [narrator] It wasn't until 2001 that Now it's only allowed in a few countries Some environmentalists argue particular single compounds that farmers might just find to apply to their farms [narrator] Agriculture 4.0 The program points out actually need the chemicals in question. This includes pesticides This saves money Instead of just applying to instead use data and efficient ways in the areas that just truly need it. [narrator] But it's not just plants Livestock plays an important role But animal husbandry Livestock in agriculture, they act like reservoirs for diseases amongst the herd. And the weird thing is as well, of these animals actually makes them [narrator] The longer humans the greater the likelihood that they Geneticists believe that the measles virus While almost all humans survive measles, At the beginning of the 18th century, raged across Europe, By this time, humans depended so much that when this disease got hold of cattle, hunger levels and starvation. And even though the actual disease it really did have an impact. [narrator] The Catholic Church The wealth of Pope Clement XI He commissions his personal physician, to examine the deadly disease. In 1715, Lancisi publishes instructions His advice: the culling of sick cattle, quarantining contagious herds All sanctions that we're still using today that we don't hang and quarter people [narrator] The Vatican is able But animal diseases continue And it wasn't until about 80 years later known as Edward Jenner noticed from cow pox curiously He then, went on to test this theory probably experiments [narrator] Edward Jenner conducts He takes pus from a cowpox patient who had never experienced After he recovers from cowpox, Jenner This time from a smallpox pustule. Jenner has just invented vaccination. And of course, vaccination has saved and has enabled us to not only get like polio, but also that affect the productivity [narrator] In the 1920s, a vaccination against rinderpest. A consistent vaccination strategy led to But today it is also clear when it comes to veterinary medicine. Antibiotics are used to to make dairy cows more productive. Today this particular use Yet a World Organization of published in 2019, shows of the 155 participating nations It appears that routine use of antibiotics In fact, we no longer have This applies for human The development of The drug companies, they're not seeing So actually, they've sort of They don't see pursuing that So actually, it's a problem that There are other alternatives for But once again, [narrator] One of the first cowsheds belongs to the dairy farmer He is banking on technology of his cows and enable them A glut of milk and dumping prices [Joachim Klindworth] We are always this crippling dairy crisis How long can we stick it out for? for several generations. Our farms have been passed down And that's what I want to do as well. [narrator] Giving up is not an option. Agriculture 4.0 is meant A fully-automated cowshed Factors that relax the cows and reduce An automated feeding belt [calmly pulsating music] Just like the fully-automated grid system to the rather unusual milking parlor. A modern rotary milking parlor and it would probably be but it does resemble a merry-go-round. [narrator] The first &quot;milk carousel&quot; It can already milk 50 cows At the time, milkers still needed -[cartoon sounds] As Joachim Klindworth's milk carousel it is not only Germany's biggest It can accommodate 56 animals - almost completely without human help. An infra-red camera scans the udder Once attached, improving hygiene At the same time, Each animal has a digital patient file. If the system finds it issues a red alarm signal. An employee promptly checks on the cow [spheric music] The new technologies reduce labor costs, and improve the health of dairy cows. This farm has reduced the amount of But there is also a drawback. I'm flooded with technology It gives me fewer opportunities to go out. For me it's kind of hard because I imagined it would be a bit different. Agriculture 4.0 has changed In future, technology nerds [spheric music] Organic farming offers the use of drugs in livestock farming. At organic farms a sick animal with natural remedies or homeopathy. Conventional pharmaceuticals Organic farming is focused on dealing an objective that organic farmers If this technology couldn't organic farming be A study conducted that if all of British agriculture this would create in fact a 24 percent drop But on the flip side, And this would require us of imported food that we bring in. And this, of course, brings with it of producing that food, And so, their conclusion was a good thing for us to switch to organic. [narrator] If we, as consumers, fish and dairy products local organic farmers [calm music] The reality is that we're not We've got used to this way of living. And I think the way forward, and make everyone go vegan, vegans talking about being vegan, So, lab grown meats, for instance, made from vegetable products That is really, I think, the way forward rather than trying to cut people out [narrator] Agriculture 4.0 is stepping up apparently conflicting demands. One such ambitious project, is called >>PhenoRob<<. The little robot is taking up the fight and the growing demand for food. Cyrill Stachniss is working that not only gauges the kind of but also takes on-the-spot action. The first thing the scientist is how to deal with weeds. For this he needs to convey between useful and bad plants. And this is much more difficult If you look at state-of-the-art systems - and also recognize what's on a picture it's because these systems - and learned from - When we're on a field, the number In our case, we have to learn or a few thousand pictures. [narrator] Within milliseconds, if the plant is desired or unwanted. The entire field has to be worked. [spheric music] Localization is really crucial because if, for example, that is trying to grow Then the use of the robot is completely [narrator] Another team is working to recognize where it's located. For this a drone surveys the field With this map it can navigate Currently no other machine Now that the robot knows the work can begin. As it moves across the field, Whenever it discovers weeds, and zaps them to dust. [laser noise] For me, as someone it's hard to say when this product There are some legal questions to answer. Who is at fault if an accident involving But this was probably already answered If we can drive on our streets, So we stand a benefit when deploying [narrator] Smart robots like PhenoRob and guide it into a new era whose Currently, it is still and gigantic monocultures But these machines weigh tons Light, agile robots The landscape will probably look different Small agrarian robots can cultivate but also in difficult terrain - in fields with where bees and other Agriculture 4.0 has the potential between conventional That basically kind of destroys organic and traditional farming, right? Because you're not relying on You've just got a little robot I think that [dynamic music] [narrator] The whole world over, drones and robots that can cultivate They might look like these field robots - from rice paddies in Asia While people are needed they will no longer be needed High hopes are connected Scientists are convinced will be helpful in fighting climate change [dynamic music] Trust technology more. and more toxic ways of growing food. We have to get creative and inventive and maintaining a sustainable system. [narrator] Farming used to mean Dangerous work too, when for example, Machines displaced people. Already today, programs are In the near future, smart robots and - at the same time - I think we're gonna be using and as long as we monitor the algorithms behind no unforeseen consequences to those. I think that's totally and we'll certainly feed to us more sustainable and better [theme music] You'll find countless types of beer Englishmen love their ale. In the United States light lager is the beer of choice. Czechs prefer pilsner beer, which is also light Wheat beer But for all the differences, there is one thing that beer has in common it connects people. We drink it at family gatherings. With colleagues With friends at a party. Or even with strangers in a pub. Of course I associate having beers With doing exactly Which is to go somewhere and with friends. It's associated with friendship, with fun, with summertime, I think all of these things [narrator] Beer has been crafted for thousands of years. Brewing is an elaborate but the list of ingredients Basically, all it takes This is the malt we use; it's a bit like And obviously [narrator] Nowadays most breweries To produce it, the grains are steeped in water The grains are allowed to germinate In warm climates in colder ones an oven. Such light roasting produces sugar. The malt is then milled A mash is thus produced. [dynamic music] A cloudy, [dynamic music] The wort is obtained Hops is then added. The variety used determines, In a last step, It converts the malt sugar into alcohol which takes a few days. Yeast is also that settles as foam atop a beer. The basic principle of brewing beer But who was the first person [martin archer] It's hard to say exactly It's like the wheel: a groundbreaking invention, and the daily life but it's so far in the past It might well [narrator] Some scientists suggest The grain porridge exposed to thus turning But this can't be verified. What we know for sure is beer brewing is unthinkable. So, it stands to reason among those who gave up It takes fertile soil to grow grain. Scientists believe in various parts of the world where these favorable conditions In the sub-Saharan zone in China and Japan, in the South American Andes The first civilization were the Sumerians They already brewed The ladies of the upper class which was sweetened with honey. Broader swaths of the population German scientists The experiment resulted with bits of bread in it. With today's palates, because the consistency alone And it was also very sour and left a slight but unpleasant a little bit as It's not the alcohol content You'd have to drink a lot of it [narrator] did not yet understand - using unpredictable wild yeast. Today's brewers to regulate their beer's alcohol content. Berries and fruits But they could also to add yeast to the beer And another way of - funny enough - is to spit in it because saliva Sounds disgusting, but it is actually one of [narrator] Even today - Chicha, for example - where human saliva is used Or you can use another staple food Bread, for example. For the ancient Egyptians, bread and beer One particular burial object that is located from where the yeast Since beer is so popular among Egyptians, it sparks an idea They introduce a beer tax Supposedly this tax but intended solely And officially the tax This idea still reverberates today where alcoholic beverages to limit their consumption. Beer is a source of enormous tax revenues largely due to value-added tax, Beer is, after all, and one of the world's An estimated were produced in 2018 alone. Next to tea and water, beer is the most widespread beverage But in earlier times because the contaminated drinking water caused outbreaks of diseases People resorted to beer Even children and pregnant women drank it Obviously, nowadays, Wean your child Doesn't seem like the best idea. [narrator] that it is nutrient-dense One liter covers a fifth of an average person's And beer is also filling. In Egypt, grain surpluses Thanks to regular flooding, agricultural land of the Nile delta In ancient times this area was known Romans and Greeks, however, They are avid wine drinkers. Beer is seen as - of the Germanic and Celtic tribes Scholars mocked The Greek physician Galen of Pergamon - not exactly And one of Aristotle's students &quot;cereal which is departed from The fermentation process by the Romans and Greeks. No wonder they preferred wine. [narrator] This antique criticism Wine drinkers are seen as whereas beer drinkers Yet it couldn't stop Today, every Czech citizen drinks Wine consumption rates, Even in Italy and France, adults today only drink [rustling grain] These days, some 381 million hectoliters, is produced by China followed by Germany in fifth place All the while, Germany is where Beer emerged as one of traded by the medieval Shipping merchants of earned a pretty penny Export - then as now - Hamburg thus becomes Towards the end of the 14th century, the city is producing well over An enormous amount in those days. It's no coincidence that evolve into beer-loving nations. Disease spreads quickly on ships, which spent days or weeks on end at sea without the possibility of The solution was beer - a beverage that remains But even beer's shelf life was limited. And when that goes wrong, So 1588 for example, by the Spanish to invade in their armada, equipped with barrel A lot of that beer and had become as bad as the water So it's a curious fact that bad beer than the Spanish managed to kill. [narrator] bred the bacteria After a few weeks And this posed a huge problem Hops and imparts But, above all, One of hops' biggest proponents She recognizes &quot;With its bitterness it keeps away a certain and makes them longer-lasting. Hops revolutionized beer production. This new substance as a result of And with it, to brew a beer even months under ideal conditions. Of the ingredients hops was the last to be added. [narrator] brewers seasoned their beer gale, laurel, rosemary, are just some of the ingredients Henbane, opium poppy, were also used to flavor beer. Their disadvantage: Generally the herbs were that the beer drinker Drinking beer did, on occasion, paranoia about &quot;threatening&quot; shadows or to the world simply being Hops, by contrast, - even though it's a member of And it costs only a third of In 1516, the German Purity Law It is still valid today. This statute limits beer brewers to using only water, This is actually Today everyone's but this law [narrator] This law because the beer of that time Brewers were also known to mask the sour taste of beer But fraudulent brewers beer inspectors force them Or the bottoms of their beer kegs That's where the idiom &quot;To knock the bottom out of the keg&quot; [tense music] Today hops is used There are countless varieties. There are something like I can influence the aroma of a beer Beer can be infused or packed with such as mango or passion fruit. Or I can choose that impart floral notes So just about anything is possible. [narrator] The taste of the hops Hop cultivation because it only thrives Major growing areas the Czech Republic, the United States, China and Australia. This is where 85% of [calm music] Only few brewers scatter the flowers In the meantime, international which is both practical and space-saving. What is also decisive is when it is added. As a rule of thumb, - and the lower the temperatures - [narrator] beer was not the most popular A powerful institution blocked its spread. [sacred music] In 817, a cultural struggle the church was eager to ban beer They also wanted to and fought to get it And this idea Beer is actually an isotonic drink, so it's really healthy I mean it can have like preventing cancer It would be a great and healthy drink, [narrator] Beer's alcohol content put forth by its opponents Even though alcohol is strictly forbidden beer enthusiasts argue Beer got backing Legend has it that German monks But the journey across the Alps that the beer that was wobbling So the Pope took a sip what the hell is this? If the monks let them go ahead [narrator] In 817, officially classified beer From this point forward Monasteries across Europe Even the world's oldest - Weihenstephan - It's located in southern Germany In 1040, this monastery was granted For almost a millennium [lively music] Beer is still being brewed Belgian Trappist beer, It enjoys great popularity This beer's alcohol content because it continues Basically the same principle applies here By adding sugar during bottling, This gives Trappist beer Depending on when it is drunk, But Belgium's beer culture is very diverse Local beer cafes often have several hundred In a few establishments Belgians have honored beer in 2016, onto UNESCO's list of Beer is in good company: the pizza from Italy, and yoga from India [march music] [march music] should also be recognized according to its head. After all, it is one of And the biggest, too. The first of its kind on the occasion of the wedding with Princess The local citizenry to the newlyweds at the festival. Today, clink glasses at Munich's Theresienwiese For the rest of the year beer is drunk at beer gardens, It was also common practice for breweries to of professional brewers The centrality of the tavern or Inn or what we would now call the pub to life is pretty hard to exaggerate. These taverns were meeting places, [narrator] Inns where guests were served In Pompeii, for example, statistically there was [calm music] In the 14th century There some 531 breweries One for 13 beer drinkers. Today London has some 3500 pubs The golden era of pubs seems to be over. In London, by almost a quarter Competition has always been stiff. In the 14th century, the city's administration The tavern signs grew so huge the government You cannot have an ale sign, a tavern sign because they are simply [narrator] Yeast is essential It is responsible for beer's fermentation; Yet it's not mentioned Why is that? The thing about yeast is: And in the past, people realized with the brewing process, All they knew was that there was that somehow started and magically made [narrator] - in his 1876 Etudes sur la biere - that yeast He also recognized the nature of yeast - tiny airborne organisms On our skin The beer we drink today is influenced by This is why Yes, really: the brewers' yeasts And the brewers over centuries [narrator] a young woman who learns At the age of 16 She later discovers shielded from the outside world, After eight years, to begin a new life somewhere else. She gets married at the age of 26. To the reformer Martin Luther himself. She runs his household and brews her own beer, which she serves to her husband Brewing was seen because they also ran the household More women than men Not just as waitresses, It is often thought in the modern period I mean, What is very interesting though is the way in which women sometimes the widows of brewers, or just women who would or brewing business [narrator] there are also other women the so-called &quot;beer witches&quot;. It is they who are blamed They stand accused of in the shape of a cat, Of course, these women A few centuries on, that uncontrolled fermentations but he is unable to offer a solution. This was given by named Emil Christian Hansen. In 1883, he succeeded in cultivating yeast The invention of pure-culture yeast is actually the birth It is one of the most in the long history of brewing. Since then, in a targeted and controlled manner. [narrator] This insight paves the way It also means that brewing to offset the expenditure But year-round brewing presents beer makers In 1807, Munich-based buys the city's smallest brewery. He steers his establishment, from strength to strength and turns it But then he gets into financial straits. We love a chilled beer in the summer, Sedlmayr also achieves But to make money in the summer, he already needs to make Sedlmayr's bank - a short-term overdraft solution - That's quite astonishing. I've never thought of beer But the fact that I can easily that I can overdraft my bank account, [narrator] use such overdraft facilities. Mostly to borrow smaller amounts. Sedlmayr, manages to close his financing gap Upon receiving the loan, Sedlmayr's brewery Other beer producers pursued In the 19th century many breweries By this time, to finance industrial brewing Industrial brewers are also confronted namely temperatures. Previously brewing was done in winter. Fermentation is encouraged by heat, but heat also causes Since only cool temperatures a cooling system needed to be installed Ice was a big business There were international companies But obviously it was and they could only &quot;harvest&quot; their ice when the water was frozen over. And according to it required one kilogram of ice So the brewer's demand for ice [narrator] Breweries used ice that were able But this ice since it was only available There just wasn't enough of it Another solution was needed. Carl von Linde, an engineer, He invented In other words, Sedlmayr didn't hesitate: In 1875, was put into operation Ever since then, Today refrigerators But we owe the fact that we can always have a nice As a driving force of innovation, it also helped launch [narrator] Christopher Columbus spends 70 days before he makes landfall in America. The discovery of the New World would not have been possible In the remote corners of the planet, Europeans not only they also encounter unknown plants, Two of them are destined to become From the 17t what you get is alternatives to beer, And coffee arrives, So, you see the arrival [narrator] Magnificent coffee houses This is where These establishments which are no longer And gradually In practically every country in the world And the range of beverages on offer today Today's consumers are spoilt for choice In the Middle Ages people were so poor, Beer was actually Because of course And so it was, you know, it was actually for some people [narrator] This changes He brings back Tomatoes, pumpkins, became part of the European diet Potato soup takes the place of beer This globalization does not just see importing tea and coffee, It begins to see in the 19th century And one of the biggest exports which is going to be That's where [narrator] On the voyage the merchant ships carried tea. On their outward journey to the colony, Since this journey and traverses an especially sturdy beer was needed. For this reason, India Pale Ale is still with a relatively high IPA is experiencing Craft beer brewers across the globe which is characterized by Another colony the US. But before this could happen barley, which is not native had to migrate across the Atlantic. Today, the US is the world's and second biggest beer producer. Economically successful, In the 19th century, a few fearless beer pioneers [liv boeree] Much of the knowledge of And especially Germany. Back in the 19th century, many German brewers and laid the foundations for the industry. In particular Eberhard Anheuser were especially important [narrator] Busch joins and modernizes it. They are the first in the US to introduce But their most important innovation that they import: Busch names it &quot;Budweiser&quot; after the Czech town At the end of the 19th century Large corporations and new classes of customers emerge. The Age of Industrialization sees the formation of Hundreds of thousands of these workers migrate from the countryside The beer industry is desperate But since leisure time to spend at - the beer So how? At the beginning of the 20th century, Up till then, from earthenware jugs and stored in kegs. Today it seems to drink our beer But you have to realize that glass was an extremely expensive It was pure luxury and only affordable It was present in chandeliers or mirrors And as a drinking vessel, it was only used by [narrator] that Friedrich Siemens developed a method At one stroke, production at the Siemens glass factory This heralds the beginning of Beer brewers are eager Even regular folks Kegs, on the other hand, The new glass bottle lets brewers Bottled beer also changes the way It enables them to do it at home, it enables new forms of social gathering as people bring their bottled beer out [narrator] But for beer bottles one decisive detail Workers like to take their beer to work. Unthinkable today, To be able to the bottles had to be Two inventors In 1875 in Berlin, a porcelain cap And in 1892, William Painter, an American, The beer bottle as we know it today But why are beer bottles brown? Now the thing is: beer is usually bottled And the trouble is: UV radiation can trigger which makes the hops Which allegedly And definitely not something Fortunately, colored glass at filtering out this radiation, and that's why we usually drink [narrator] Glass also finds its way Earthenware jugs disappear This has the effect of fundamentally When someone puts a glass of we get even thirstier, There is something very sensual about by the condensation, When brewers were making beer, but they were thinking about [narrator] But the &quot;perfect beer&quot; There is a lot of disagreement Now of course the topic of foam Some people love to have others-certainly us brits Personally, I want the full glass [narrator] German brewers, deliberately generate a lot of foam. As much carbon dioxide as possible is added to the beer And the hops makes sure For other Beer drinkers And this too Malts, the germinated grains are the biggest The longer it has been dried, Higher temperatures And color malt is available to brewers Belgians in particular In the US and Asia, light varieties Lager is a low-alcohol beer: 80 percent of all Japanese, can only tolerate a little alcohol. Current research suggests 7000 - 10,000 years ago, the Chinese fermented it This fermentation process which they consumed A genetic mutation that breaks down the alcohol. They couldn't tolerate it In the long term, than those who did not have and were consuming more and more alcohol [narrator] But it's not just Asians In the early 20th century, beer has a reputation The US is founded on immigration. While Germans and the Irish didn't see puritanical English settlers The Protestant Church had already preached against [melancholic violin music] Martin Luther suggested &quot;weakens one's vigilance Towards the end of the 19th century, - &quot;the drink of devils&quot; - Bible-abiding citizens consider beer, to have a harmful effect. Not just on the health above all, But drinking beer has, in fact, There's this crazy story Where there was this young guy of a Norwegian plane with a gun, But one of the police's strategy was so that he would get more relaxed And when only the crew then he finally gave up his gun So, in this instance [narrator] The main target of - and not beer. But beer moved American troops are facing German soldiers And most brewers So beer too becomes the enemy. [gun shots] In 1919, a law was passed Beer kegs are smashed Alcohol is forbidden even today in some parts of the world Especially in Muslim countries including Afghanistan, Iran, But even parts of the United States, still ban the sale of alcohol today. But people often try to side-step bans. During Prohibition alcohol is sold So within ten years, increases the number of Travel on cruise ships because drinking is still allowed &quot;Cruises to nowhere&quot; are in demand. Little bottles of alcohol fit everywhere. A flourishing shadow economy develops. In the so-called &quot;speakeasies&quot;, beer and schnapps It is estimated that some operated throughout the US The rise of Al Capone is facilitated by the speakeasies. Indeed, organized crime profits While only 7 out of 100.000 Americans some 10 in 100.000 are murdered. The Prohibition instantly obliterates After August Anheuser Busch he tries to salvage by producing fizzy drinks, During the Prohibition, by marketing malt extract or yeast. Now these products of course could be used but they were more often used And in fact, of what not to do with the extract One of the heirs of recently revealed one of the customers of He told the Anheuser that he needed more yeast [1920s music] [narrator] the conviction that Prohibition causes also gains ground in politics. In 1933, President Roosevelt and marks this event By midnight, resume their brewing activities. But only a few of them [1930s music] So the brewing industry and in that process what one sees, and not just but also intense competition between them to become the dominant force [narrator] The demise of and unprecedented the world over. But in Europe too from crop failures Smaller breweries in particular Today, huge corporations The top ten brewery groups currently supply This also intensifies the competition. Breweries explore - and also keep customers. The Irish Guinness Brewery is the first With the Guinness harp, they create one of This design is trademarked in 1862. To this day, it features The Guinness Brewery to use paper labels Other breweries follow suit. Brands and logos If you say Guinness if you say Heineken it's a red star We are conditioned that way. And a big part of the advertising to have that brand awareness. [cheerful nostalgic music] My goodness! [narrator] The advertising industry Cigarettes and beer feature [pitchman] and pour yourself the most inviting [narrator] It's all about conveying In the post-war period, embrace freedom and happiness [budweiser jingle] Beer companies are now also Football world championships, as well as the Super Bowl Spectator numbers are huge. With brands getting massive exposure. This reinforces the clout causing sales figures to skyrocket. Mass production, often has a detrimental effect with some beer drinkers taking on the beer giants. A craft beer movement [calm music] We are all familiar with pilsner, and perhaps But that's about it. But there are - and have been - The goal is to revive To add other flavors That's the fun part, to introduce beer enthusiasts [narrator] Although the sales figures are nowhere near they have found a niche and they are giving beer enthusiasts The craft beer scene And the person The US President probably when he signed a bill in 1978 Just imagine: and all over the country and small brewing kettles, put them in their cellar or garage Suddenly you have [narrator] One of the best-known Barack Obama And apparently his palate Honey Porter and Honey Ale that come from From the US, Craft brewers are primarily keen To discover these, that are, in part, centuries old The rich diversity on the beer market Before that, there were always Of course, there was of the big companies So they disappeared little by little. [narrator] together with is also having an impact on The most visible result These days And those are great for many reasons but they enjoy the taste And so it's a god solution for them. [narrator] In the meantime, has reached five percent of one of the most Non-alcoholic beer varieties where alcohol intolerance is widespread, So even though the Prohibition it did achieve at least one thing: It raised awareness about and, in the long-term, has led to - even among young people. To secure the future of beer, brewers must adapt to the new requirements of the market. Gluten intolerances If we look around we could drink rice beer Because there is no gluten in that because the ingredients themselves But it also tastes quite different So, in order to create what we'd call there'll just have to be more research. [narrator] Beer's march to monopoly but it's still [smooth rock music] There's no such thing as Probably my favorite drink to be honest. [narrator] and thus asserting its position as Countless types and varieties evolved And in recent years The craft beer movement It has, in a way, [narrator] For thousands of years, refreshes people Beer will continue to evolve and will remain Europeans alone consume over 2.5 million tonnes That's the equivalent weight Globally, the coffee industry is Cafe culture has continued from Italy to the UK, from America to Australia. It seems we can't miss I drink coffee every day I drink coffee every morning, obviously a bit of a kick I love coffee! I do drink coffee, NARRATOR: Our everyday lives and even the history of the has been formed by this As with most foods that have coffee's beginnings are shrouded How did we discover that could produce such a Some historians believe coffee by a goat-herd named Kaldi He found his goats frolicking after eating the red fruit Kaldi tried the fruit and had a similar reaction. After witnessing the goats' a monk took some of the fruit they too spent the night However, it's not until the that we have the earliest of coffee-drinking. It appears in the accounts of The drink was brewed in to this reconstruction. Once made, it was consumed and used to stay awake By the 16th century, coffee had reached the rest Persia, Turkey It then spread to Italy. The thriving trade between Egypt and the Middle East brought many goods, to the port of Venice. Some people reacted to this with suspicion and fear, calling it the The local clergy condemned in 1615. The controversy was so great that Pope Clement VIII He decided to taste the beverage before making a decision, and found the drink that he completely changed and gave coffee the thumbs up. From Venice, where coffee houses were centers of social activity In Turkey, the coffee revolution In 1663, the Ottoman Empire People would be decapitated in this illicit activity. The Ottoman Sultan Murad IV he believed was provoking Coffee consumption in public. The sultan believed coffee shops dangerous thoughts and speech. But this didn't deter and coffee culture survived Coffee was having an in another corner of the world, It became so popular, it replaced the common breakfast beer and wine. Those who drank coffee instead began the day alert and the quality of their work The 17th century saw the arrival so called because for the price you could purchase a gain entry to the coffee house and engage By the mid-17th century, there were over 300 coffee many of which attracted including merchants, brokers So the coffee house is in the 17th and 18th century. Coffee houses were like clubs in which you had to pay very So you paid your penny, and that gave you access it gave you access to and it provided you with you could discuss the world. NARRATOR: Coffee houses became where men met up to socialise ANJULA MUTANDA: If you the advent of coffee houses to share a cup of coffee, it can become a creative space. Ideas are flowing, people are They're feeling more motivated. NARRATOR: These ground-breaking allowed both the rich and poor to learn from one another enabling everyone ANJULA MUTANDA: Even to this day the coffee house is used they're coming together but what you're also picking up NARRATOR: Today, the world can't but where and how and find enough to feed this of epic proportions? There are two primary types with arabica widely considered It accounts for about cultivated worldwide. Coffee grows best in subtropical with plenty of rain. It's produced in around in South and Central America, The process begins A coffee bean If it isn't picked and processed Once the seeds have germinated they're planted out This often takes place during so that the soil remains moist while the roots become It will take 3 or 4 years before Then they'll be ready This Mayni community in Peru often with the whole family One of the customers of these is a specialist roaster they are experts in And they're full of surprises. GREG CAMPHER: Believe it or not, It grows on a bush and it So you'll get red and yellow The reason why we call it it's very similar in size but inside that cherry NARRATOR: To satisfy and growing global market, we need a lot of coffee plants, the cherries they produce, to give us the vast quantities These go on to be processed GREG CAMPHER: There are washed which is a process flesh from the beans, the beans are then washed and that gives you You then have the naturaly which are where the cherries and it's popped into the sun and that cherry ferments down But it imparts a lot of flavour and then you have the final which is the pulp So they mill the cherries but they they don't wash NARRATOR: The sugars are before the next key stage Roasting. We roast coffee because as green Roasted coffee you change you change the chemical extract using water all the that you want within your cup. NARRATOR: Clearly, to producing a tasty The coffee roaster is a surprisingly simple The easiest way to a washing machine over Inside you have a drum, it revolves, and that sort of toss to provide an even Underneath the drum is the gas burners so that We load the beans on the top, the beans when they are will congregate NARRATOR: Roasting can take as the manufacturer would like. Different roasting times produce One of the many secrets whoever and wherever It is a secret recipe yes, but it depends really on what and every roaster is different. CHRIS DANSON: When a roast is we then dump it out into So the plan is to stop that as quickly as possible. So there's a big fan underneath then as soon as they hit we'll do a quick for beans that have Drop them into a bin and then we wait twenty-four NARRATOR: For coffee consumers, drinking a brew We have coffee shops everywhere certainly something that Coffee equals a social space where I get a great cup of java. NARRATOR: Coffee shops remain as they were in the What is it about coffee and exchange views? Turns out, it's not actually the brainstorming process, but a chemical it contains; caffeine. Caffeine acts as a central So when it enters the body, is it makes us more alert and Coffee has an effect we know that because it mimics in the body. And when caffeine attaches to it blocks off its processing. So rather than feeling relaxed you feel the opposite, and you feel lively another effect comes to life Now what does dopamine do? It makes you feel good, and you can concentrate better. So suddenly you've gone from have been feeling a little bit to alert and ready to go. NARRATOR: We find that helps us kick-start our day, or gives us a boost But how does it perk us up and what exactly I would like to think that in a truly enlightened way, engaged in high thought I actually think I drink it because otherwise Caffeine is a found in certain foods and and the way it works is it gets into our bloodstream and it binds to the adenosine NARRATOR: When this reaction neural activity slows down, Caffeine mimics this activity, Now adenosine receptors are which is a chemical when it's time to go to sleep, and makes you sleepy. And so caffeine mimics that and adenosine from binding it gives you this sort of and then it also, because we're now being it gets our adrenaline going and so it gives us this NARRATOR: Many studies into the effects of coffee and recently, scientists have psychological effects I think yeah coffee can change can make you feel more alert, more motivated, and if you're in that frame of So if you're somebody who's and 'I need a coffee pick me up' a lot of people ascribe coffee to helping them get up and go, NARRATOR: If you don't want but you do want motivation, there is an alternative that will give you Energy drinks are becoming the with the global energy drink $86 billion by 2026. Although they might seem these drinks have been widely The concept began life called krating daeng. It was used by factory workers and truckers to get through Austrian entrepreneur discovered that krating daeng on a business trip to Thailand. He liked it so much, he eventually tracked down and the two went into Mateschitz rebranded it and brought it to European A completely new product the energy drink. These contain more sugar than appealing to the younger market who perhaps don't enjoy the But whichever way you choose it will have the same effect, either will give you a boost Scientists have suggested were the original version Caffeine-fuelled conversations scientific discoveries and even like the Boston Tea Party. This famous protest was planned to this day in Boston, the Green Dragon Tavern. On December 16, 1773 involving three British ships. Every year, this important with people dressing up The story began were imported into Britain Unfortunately, the company and had asked the British to export tea directly in order to get rid of their This was approved and in 1773 But the British government had of the American resistance ACTOR: For we will not NARRATOR: Angry disguised as Mohawk Indians dumped 342 chests of tea through frustration at the taxation without representation. This event was the first major to British rule. Sixty people took part that became known ironically as the Boston Tea Party, dumping tea worth a million It was a significant event in the lead up to the After the 'tea party', to the Americans. French and Dutch coffee and flooded the American encouraging Americans Many historians believe of the USA's But it was catching on back in As the industrial revolution in the 18th and 19th centuries, the workforce was switching DR. WHYTE: What it does is give so you can drink water safely. Before water's purified or process it in some way, and brewing, whether coffee or The other thing, of course is so the provision of caffeine in the 19th century century is to work longer and harder than NARRATOR: With the growing more people started working They would wake up, and then head to their These workers began to live on coffee and bread because coffee was stimulating providing an illusion of Cheap coffee on tap is available the cultural icon known celebrated here in 1951. Often open 24 hours a day, the eat a cheap meal if you're or any time of day. And they serve coffee It's a development from Americas when food and coffee began to in the 1870s. Soon the idea had spread into the permanent found all over But the diner isn't the only associated with coffee. The New York Stock Exchange both began life in the of the world famous financial Back in the day, the coffee and extremely rough but the chemistry was the same. So, how do you make Firstly, the temperature of the so it absorbs the Any cooler and the water any hotter and the water making the coffee taste bitter. Brewing time is also vital. There are three key stages. Acidic, fruity-flavoured to be extracted, followed by more earthy, and finally Short brew times lead to only the first group Whereas over-brewing can lead to an excess For the best coffee, we have to aim between Today the coffee industry And on average, 500 billion cups are consumed We just can't get enough I discovered I loved coffee and I had a particular brand of and find out what it was of course I could get it in the And I had it every for like five straight years. I never used to be much of until the last couple of years, my other half drinks it a lot and I have to say it does make and I'm able to get into my work more quickly NARRATOR: But while some people this continuing growth Every coffee drinker seems of when, where and how. Going back we used to drink I used to drink a lot of it when In the afternoon, I do have a at work, after lunch, NARRATOR: But all this coffee environmental problem. At home or work, you might have or cups to choose from. However, on the move, you are more likely to grab in a so-called paper cup. Worldwide, sixteen billion with many consumers presuming But, they are not. Due to the complicated way fewer than 1% are recycled. Though they are made largely disposable coffee cups are lined which is tightly bonded making the cups waterproof The difficulty of recycling by the fact that they are It means cups can't be recycled at conventional and must instead be taken Un-recycled plastic takes meaning lots of it the natural environment. Gradual breakdown of plastics that can be ingested by animals Understanding of the true nature coffee cups the environment are growing. Slowly people are remembering to coffee shops. So next time you grab a coffee, consider taking your own But not everyone has time or make a fresh cafetiere One of the solutions brings The coffee market is constantly trying to cater to People have less time than ever, so the industry has developed to your caffeine fix, which has revolutionised The coffee capsule. An estimated 56 billion are used These shiny jewel-like pods with only one click, These capsules but the technology behind was actually A Swiss aerodynamics engineer is the father of capsule coffee. In 1975, he was Nestle employee to seek out the best coffee He found what he was looking He learnt the reason why sample a particular cafe's brew. The barista was aerating pulling the lever not just once, but at several short intervals, which brings out all the Inspired, he set about that introduced a maximum before it's forced Back in Switzerland the inventor and developed a prototype a ground-breaking contraption. He then invented similar to the ones today before water is pushed through, filling the cup But these pretty pods their lack of recyclability. Every minute of the day up to in landfill sites worldwide. The bulk of capsules on are plastic with so the capsules need a bespoke Companies claim their products It's true but the problem lies Recycling is complicated. The capsules can't just be put They have to be sent to the company that made them. Because of this, many coffee drinkers don't or simply haven't got time. Research is being done into so the capsules can go and decompose over time. It's not all bad news. The coffee machines used are more environmentally They only flash-heat the small for one cup, unlike the kettle, which uses Whilst we've managed to crack research into the physical has brought conflicting DR, SEWELL: The health benefits have been heavily scrutinized. There is some evidence to but there is also a lot of that it may be harmful to us. Some of the health benefits that it can act as a protection to prevent us from developing as well as also some types Furthermore, coffee has also with reducing the risk of Some of the negative points it may increase our risk Drinking coffee in moderation NARRATOR: Moderation, according to America's is measured as a maximum Any more and you could be But for some, drinking coffee Some people should actively try Namely individuals who because we do know that associated with caffeine and the Other individuals who should too much coffee coffee or indeed include those who might have There is also some evidence coffee might be problematic which have or individuals who have NARRATOR: Scientists researching of caffeine on the body came and extreme outcome, in spiders. In 1995, scientists at NASA to explore the effects of one of which was caffeine. The spiders spun bizarre webs the more toxic the chemical, compared to a normal web. The webs of spiders were characterised by and a lack of the normal proving caffeine really does Meanwhile an American pet owner thinks coffee is the secret in cats. Jake Perry has owned many all living to at least One kitty in particular called for the oldest cat in the world, Jake shared his secret for a breakfast of eggs, bacon Creme Puff's love of dairy in From Latin America's to South India's filter coffee, many recipes call for Nowadays this drink comes in from latte to cappuccino, mocha to americano and flat white to espresso. There is a whole that society has learnt. Coffee has come a long way Dairy and coffee are a They met in Europe when the first coffeehouse in after the battle of Vienna. A Polish military officer by the name of obtained some coffee beans after He then opened his own coffee Here the coffee was They added milk and sugar. It's known as a 'melange', and became a typical It helped milky coffee Now baristas take great delight to express their creativity. It's all in the pouring, Coffee has proved to be versatile product, not just as a drink, but because These days, it turns up in some like the garden. Coffee's actually really good to be used as a So plants need a lot of key and actually coffee can provide nitrogen, potassium, chromium and the coffee can even attract promoting the growth of NARRATOR: The benefits of coffee by the beauty industry. Coffee is deeply aromatic and this makes it appealing for Face and body masks are now to invigorate the skin. It is being used as a which is softer to the hair and even caffeine shampoo It's been found to boost and promote healthy hair growth. How is this coffee obsession The boiling kettle... the aroma from the mug... the first bitter mouthful But do people only drink coffee to get their daily hit ANJULA MUTANDA: I think with coffee is part of their They don't even think about the and have a cup of coffee, they're going to go and have so it's very much embedded in NARRATOR: People across the and even words to From java to battery acid Some need more explanation The nick- name 'Java' It's believed to have been to refer to single-origin coffee As the coffee trade grew, by more and more people 'Cup of Joe' is also shrouded with many different theories One possibility is coffee was once considered so it was given the name Joe Whatever you call it, there's also an international and Finland comes out top. The average Finn drinks four Coffee consumption among Scandinavian neighbours But you can have too much Some people can develop an they feel they can't go through a lot of caffeine in The thing is the side effects feeling jittery and feeling you know, nervy a lot So you know you've had when you get into that state. So for some people they a dependence on caffeine NARRATOR: But unlike other drugs caffeine has a relatively The unpleasant effects can make but it doesn't interfere with in the same way as a more Some people argue that it should but a lot of other people argue and it's more of a dependence but it's on a lower level. NARRATOR: However with with potentially unpleasant Caffeine withdrawal does exist who regularly drink coffee suddenly stop it. Some of the symptoms associated include irritability, fatigue, ANJULA MUTANDA: So there are which can last from twelve to for some people and for other But unlike withdrawing from it's pretty short lived and you not have it if you want to. NARRATOR: The great advantage of however this is arguably its Worldwide studies suggest that up to 50% of the world's suffer from insomnia and coffee could be one of If it is consumed too late this stimulant can make it hard One study found that consuming before bedtime reduced total I'm not addicted to caffeine. I think I'm quite aware of that I can be affected and so that means that I don't because it does affect my sleep So caffeine blocks certain for certain chemicals that and when they're blocked So if you have a double espresso Human beings should be getting a night, and at the moment The less you sleep, Pretty much everything by how well you sleep or not. So the coffee epidemic is deleterious contributing effect NARRATOR: However, our love for coffee shows We're drinking more than ever. So what's next for this Coffee, it's just everywhere, and it seems to be just the Rather than let's go and it's like shall we and you just see so many trademark coffee cup style it's just everywhere, it's The explosion of coffee is not I think it's about a way for human beings to coffee shops, cafes, having it's one of the ways, in the they bring people together. So I think the coffee trend for a much bigger trend requiring social interaction. NARRATOR: But there is one which consumers may be The future of coffee Global warming is deciding A study in 2019 found that 60% are now at risk of extinction, including the variety which produces most of Researchers found that 124 wild coffee species from the loss of forests, and the worsening problem A world without coffee It impacts everyone and one of the important effects Coffee has become for many developing countries. It's the backbone of the providing more than 30% of the If the plant that once helped becomes extinct, it could once again change but not for the better. But all is not lost. In 2012, coffee roasting and from around the world banded 'World Coffee Research'. A global collaborative, climate-smart coffee varieties It's a ray of hope in an for the millions who I think for a lot of people because for many it's become This is the thing that's going and so many people utilise it NARRATOR: Love it or loathe it, this one small bean has made Billions of cups are drunk pop up more and more in shopping South Korea is one of the with 88,000 coffee shops which means 1 for every Coffee has transformed history, shaped our culture and even fertilised our gardens. From an accidental discovery to becoming the world's Coffee truly