This video is sponsored by AnyDesk. You ever happens when you wire a hundred car batteries in exactly what I'll be doing today. By wiring all same as a single battery, which is just a bit over to what I usually show on this channel, but you we're playing with fire today. See that rating can deliver for 30 seconds in freezing temps, in parallel, we're looking at 85 000 amps. going to limit that somewhat, but I'm curious can get here. I mean it's one thing to produce but what does it look like when you make In fact, I'm hoping to achieve the currents The most daunting engineering task for this these massive currents, particularly one thousands of amps are flowing through it. mostly because it can rip apart contacts that weld switch is that you load it like a crossbow. So So I gotta yank this back while feeding it this Okay so now it's loaded and I have to out that pin. Let me just show you. yanks out that pin. So now when I hit this and then if I have some catastrophic failure button here to rip apart those plates, oh and I seems safe enough right? Now I want to bore you give you a sense of the crazy scale that incredible 320 megajoules of energy. That means the energy equivalent of 500 cars screaming down which would probably make a sizable Now I could go on and on about how clinically the video do the talking here. I will say batteries. I mean even one can mess you up if you For the first test I'm going to try a piece should be easy to melt, but the small size What? it looks like the connection broke so nearly anything can break the smacked the threads with a hammer a bit It was slower than I hoped, but I did like the Here I have a 3/8 inch threaded rod. Now this so it should pass quite a bit more current. look at that wow cool I think that one was just as fast if not Now this is the metal alloy that makes up modern when it's ground down. I'm hoping it makes even it just exploded! Maybe a bigger rod Hah I'll take that as a yes. Unfortunately it Gosh it's just so hard to keep contact with more weight. This is a kilogram Ingot of so I'm hoping it will keep enough Well that was messy! It splattered although a lot of it was unmelted. It still made remaining ingot is super colorful. I want to I'm going to measure the current through it by Yes! It took a while for it to secure contact, the oscillogram is noisy, but once it made full there. Now this is across a mere 16 millionths of 000 amps. Not bad. Let's give this saw blade it should pass a substantial amount of current. it certainly burned through quickly, but I was The current there was higher, a peak probably near the limit without making Now if I can do 15 kilo amps for pretty crazy, and it might be possible with You know, for as easy as it is for wires it's been bafflingly difficult to hold a short blowing out of place. I've tried using all but the results are all the same. Everything however its voltage is not, and that's why I can 000 amps, I haven't even hit the current of the some clouds can do better than 100 car batteries? the ocean? Nope not yet. I think using a higher the bank for a series-parallel arrangement. Now all those are wired in parallel. This makes the Let's start the 60 volt experiments with holy heck that exploded! The slo-mo shows so quickly that its zinc coating boiled off faster exploded, it left a cloud of greenish plasma, as Comparing this to what happened at 12 volts, at 60 volts. Sure enough, I clocked a peak of the current of the average lightning strike. see what happens when I try a half inch bolt. I've upgraded to some big boy clamps this I'll take that as a no. Yeah that bolt really does not want to stay in yeah look at that, it just leaves a big wow. Let's see if quad clamping heck. This was easier at 12 volts! What's going introduced a new problem. These blocks are getting the magnetic field. Now what's so gay about attract like you might think. Yeah yeah, when south and vice versa. However, if you look you'll see the reverse happens to them. Opposite this has a lot of interesting consequences in a fine streamer, and it's also the basis of circuit, it causes the aligned cables to bunch the opposite direction, and this is what's ripping issue, I brought in two of the leading experts in scientist. So you can see I've already tried so gigantic and the magnetic field is so huge that yeah I wanna see what this does. yeah yeah you oh yeah it's literally an inch thick. we're gonna God but the thing is these huge clamps they're not oh yeah I want to put this last clamp on. yeah this is it's like it's so bad. all right everyone oh it flew out of there again. did you see that? do really? yes. that was like a like a firework from but the contact broke in like you know fraction yeah sort of. So the bolt is actually still there. it across like yeah. so there's two issues so it opposing and it yanks it apart, so it barely held guys find a way to keep to actually keep things think I could do it. how would you do it? I could don't know. Could you like just drill some holes a piece of wood or something? like a two by six to. I feel like you don't want to keep everything down. I'm scared of what would happen. sure explode. I want to see it explode. yes yeah melt like on the same piece of wood right? That's what oh so yeah the whole mechanism on one piece of just expecting like melting and explosive stuff I do like the block of wood idea. the German that word is. yeah. Before attempting to bolt to stick a couple cans of 1,2-dimethylethane this? I don't usually wear safety goggles. oh my gosh wow oh it's still live. I'm gonna oh that was all wow. we tried sticking would act like a rocket. It turns out wow wow. These fireballs were cool and clearing out some of that annoying I went ahead and mounted everything to a big block Wow it just exploded off of there. Wow that's terrifying. Wow look at the remnants wow. Looks like it took about a quarter and the current peaked at over 40 000 amps. That effects here. There are the cables in back and also there's the broken bolt fragment getting Well if the half inch bolt melts now, maybe It melted through! Wow that is really melted on there. Interesting how it jeez I don't know if that one's coming liquid steel really bonded to the copper there. There it goes. Jeez. It's funny, sparks get launched further and further, even figured these tests would be intense, but This one's gonna be pretty crazy I think. It's I thought its weight would be enough so I've used these spring Holy heck! It made a huge mushroom cloud. There's vaporized all over the place. Wow. I also managed cameras with that run. Oops. At this point in the but even so, this is probably the scariest nearly an entire kilogram of metal, and turn it The droplets being shot out are so hot that of smoke while raining burning molten metal on of metal splattered on the trees, the sides of The impressive pyrotechnic display of the bismuth Titanium is used in fireworks for making bright beautiful sparks when being zapped by a hundred In engineering, there's something called a crowbar from killing the rest of the device. Now it got like if you were to take a crowbar and throw it try the literal interpretation of this circuit. I holy heck! it came all the way back here! cool oscillating effect as the crowbar which made the resulting I threw in the bigger crowbar and this one oh wow the head of that crowbar - oh my burned through my shoe. jeez. Oh yeah that's that crowbar there is just welded onto that. I tossed some magnets in the middle of the wire current starts, and yeah I put my camera way too out to me here is when the crowbar finally fireball. My bet is that inductive kickback couple of wrenches ought to be fun. Where's this big one should be nice and scary. wow that one got real toasty! Look Right here I have the biggest bolt that an inch in diameter and 10 inches long. I think This is going to be crazy. Did that melt all the way through? So it just That's that's crazy. I didn't see that happen from melting all the way through. All right I'm gonna try it without whoa that was so loud! I don't even know what that they melted straight through! Wow that drew well at least before the fuses exploded. That's here because it gives a cross reference for the equation predicts that a bank of 10 6 gauge wires before exploding, and that's pretty much what I upgraded the fuses to 4 gauge but at this so I'm going to do some other experiments You're probably wondering how well this well I am too honestly, and wow. that works even better than I expected! I just have it sitting on that copper Yeah I think that'll do it. Let's try oh geez come on! all right let's try that It's close enough. Well actually on second wow! wow that was wild! A few sparks in my some magnetite there inside that loop of wire Yeah it really sticks to those cables. I've placed the wire loop below a crazy how quickly the magnetite orients the magnetic field here is probably a solid a coil of wire and placing it near the cables, The LEDs are being wirelessly powered I have this big old SCR here which is to try popping it with the batteries. Here we go. As expected, nothing happens yet because the SCR Now let's do a little trolling it's funny because I'm used to silicon dying electronics, however, the SCR was unaffected by popping out of the contacts because t.hey were Wait are you serious? Did it I think it melted the bolt first. Much to my whole setup before there was enough time for 000 amps and snapping one of the mounting bolts in I mounted everything back in the wooden block It turns out the SCR had already failed it immediately blew up when the battery voltage kilo amp fault. We'll see about that. All right Did it trip? Oh let's see here. So it It may have actually worked. It may have I think it's still alive. Let's try it again. yeah it's welded to it now. but it still tripped the circuit. That's magnesium but the results weren't that impressive the contact points and prevented burn through, [Laughter] Let's try the same thing with ferrocerium. Yeah that one explodes a bit softer than I bet yeah. Where's my science machete? Well that's fun. I think titanium should be even more impressive since it has Wow. and that's how to light the All right the titanium flamethrower. yes I got it! oh good I got it! nice. Before light bulbs were lamp that was pretty much just an electric candle. I've connected a couple chonky I'm going to try initiating an okay Wow that is incredibly bright. I smell like I Look how hot that is! I'm gonna apply that way you can hopefully That arc is actually getting huge, it's that's not just from the splatter arc is gigantic. The magnetic I think it's time to revisit the huge bolt that fresh new one inch bolt in there. Hopefully Yes! Oh it melted. Oh look at that, there's so much heat coming off of the radiation coming off of that bolt lit I clocked a peak of just a hair under 50 000 amps lightning strike, and for a much longer duration of three megawatts. You should not be measuring it's pretty cool. Who gave you these batteries? their idea, it's insane. That's right, this this entire video was their idea, which definitely AnyDesk gives you lightning fast connection to all be near this terrifying battery bank when I want Arby's a thousand miles from my lab and remotely I love the future. AnyDesk isn't only useful for shorting 100 manage all your devices with low latency notorious for being laggy at the worst possible If you're cursed by being the most tech well AnyDesk can save you time and frustration from wherever you want to be. AnyDesk is free are custom tailored to your IT and work from home So yeah a big thank you to AnyDesk for sponsoring make this video than I expected. Now part of the 12 volt experiments, but also, I really didn't I mean with most of my videos, I have a pretty like, but with these I just I really didn't know. see what stuck, and this led to a lot of failed interesting. I tried microwaving the output of the but the most I could get was a pop. The voltage I also tried saltwater electrolysis which did but it just wasn't quite exciting enough. but I'd need quite a bit more voltage My most disappointing failure was trying So back in the late 1800s, a lightning rod was and then in 1905, a couple scientists made the the huge currents that passed through 000 amps, along with some melting is what did rigged up some pipe with fuses to prevent the pipe I made the fuse thicker and thicker, which allowed I was achieving currents of over 40 000 amps Unfortunately, there was no pipe crushing, even It turns out it was the alternate explanation analysis determined that the rod was actually 000 amps with no melting at all. Since the square of the current going through it, that means 40 kilo amps. Now if I had a few hundred more pull it off, but for what that would cost I'd As a whole, the engineering for this project was of circuits that operate much more complex and this one takes the cake for that. I mean in an electronics 101 class. It's just a battery, lot more resistances in reality. The cables have contact resistance, even the batteries themselves to measure without just building the whole circuit In the all parallel arrangement I couldn't get by this. Where was the resistance coming from? The not the cables either. I'm using the thickest running 10 of those in parallel. As a side note, the American wire gauge. Anyway, the resistance the bank for 60 volts was able to overcome most is the battery internal resistance, which means into heating the batteries. I scoped the voltage 6 volts! yikes. Now the hardest part about this mean you can't just buy a switch like this that less than you'd pay for all these batteries. My switch using like a huge array of MOSFETs, but I high chance of catastrophic failure, so I nerd hopes that they would come up with a solution. creative ideas ranging from MOSFETs to mechanical Tesla coil master Greg Leyh suggested something splitter. I bought a cheap log splitter and some my friend Josh to weld them up. It was his idea to which significantly helped keep the switch this is the same Josh in my early pyro experiment So yeah, thanks to Josh for building the engineering consult, and thanks to AnyDesk for video idea in the first place. Finally I'd like things are tough as nails, invented way back in technology. They're also the most recycled most sustainable battery technology. To top it for electric eels, fulfilling a critical role