Did you get fired from your job and now idea what to say when they ask you about it? I'm not talking about being made redundant due to restructuring, or No, I'm talking about you having been told company belonging, and being escorted If that's you, then stay tuned to find out Welcome to The Career Upgrade. My name is Petra Pearce and I'm Over the past 20 years, I have worked as a global HR leader in several Fortune 500 companies, like you, to build their career and Today we're talking about the question &quot;Why were you fired?&quot; I'm not gonna sugarcoat it. If this has happened to you, you will for sure face one of the most challenging interview But just because it happened, it doesn't mean that you can't get the job that you want. It is perfectly possible to nail the interview having been fired from your last one. And here's how to do it. The first thing you need to do is to get over the What mean with that is that you want to make any negative emotions from that situation. Losing your job sucks. And you may completely disagree with your employer as to why you lost your job. Regardless, the best thing you can do for yourself is to accept it for what it is and move on. People get fired every day and they go on and find new jobs and you will get another job too. So focus on all the good things you've accomplished in your career so far, and think about all the skills and capabilities that you have, that make you the perfect candidate. What the interviewer wants to know when they ask you this question, besides understanding the circumstance is how you handled the situation. And what you learn from it, and... that the reasons behind the dismissal is no longer a problem. So if you still have deal with it first, so that you can walk a level headed, calm and confident answer. And so that you can talk about it without loosing your temper. Now, let's talk about how you structure your answer. You want to to keep it short and to the point. And make sure you stick to the truth. Talk about what you've learned from the Leave emotions out and as soon as you can, shift the focus towards the job you're interviewing for and how you see this So for example, if you were let go due to misconduct, you could say something like: it was definitely the low point of my but it was also a blessing. Because it made me stop and and my responsibilities in it. And I got a chance to deal with it, once and for all. If you were dismissed due to an then your answer could sound something like this: The job wasn't working out, so my manager and I agreed that it was time for us to part ways. When I took the job, I was desperate for work and although I and that is a mistake I will not make again. That's it. That's all you have to say about the reason. The rest of the answer should show from the experience and be all about why So you may say something like: It gave me an opportunity to really think about what I'm after in a job so that I can in a similar situation. Which brings me to why I'm so interested in your position and your company. I know your company's values are X, Y, and Z, which is exactly aligned with my values. For example... And then you give a relevant example. I've chosen values here but you responsibility that is outlined in the Or a capability. It may then sound like this instead: Which brings me to why I'm so interested in your position and your company. I know you're looking for someone with experience in X capability which is what I've been and that I really like doing. For example... And then you give a relevant example. Answering the question this way doesn't clarify why your employment was terminated. Just so they can be confident that it won't happen again. But it is a way for you to steer the conversation to focus on the future. If they ask you follow-up questions related to what happened that led you to be fired, remember to keep calm and answer truthfully, and factually, and try and avoid getting emotional. Okay. Let's talk about the do's and the don'ts You want to keep your answer short. If you give a long answer you're running the risk of getting up sharing both too much details and Some interviewers are purposely displaying more freely. So always remember that this It is a job interview. You also want to be honest in your what you learned from the situation. And you want to finish your answer with a future focus by tying it into the reason Okay. So let's look at some of the don'ts. Don't use the word &quot;fired&quot;. It has a bad association, so make sure that you use Don't lie. Avoid the temptation to bend the truth or that you resigned. Let's assume that you do well. That you're offered the role. And when the employer does the you haven't been truthful with the termination. What do you think is gonna happen? Not only are you're not gonna get the job. But you will also have an even more challenging conversation where you in the first place. You shouldn't blame others. If you were fired, take ownership of your part of it. If there were other people involved, leave their leave their responsibilities completely out of it, and focus only on the parts that you had control over. If you blame the dismissal on others, even partly, you're running the risk of the interviewer thinking that the history may repeat itself. And then the last piece of advice is to don't sound bitter. Being let go is an emotional event, and employer to terminate the employment, it But the worst thing you can do, is to let that bitterness sip out during your interview. So keep your emotions in check and focus on talking about your learnings and speak about If you've watched any of my other importance of preparing and practicing It's even more critical when it comes answering this question. The more confident and comfortable you are with discussing And the more ownership and responsibility you take for what's happened, the more comfortable the interviewer will be. So make sure that until it no longer feels awkward or And that's how you answer the question &quot;Why were you fired?&quot; The bottom line is that although it's crucial that you prepare what is short, to the point, true and forward focused. And that you don't have any emotions in it. It is also important to remember, that you having been fired doesn't define you as a person. It was an event that took place in your past. And it doesn't have to be a representation So prepare your answer, leave the emotions at home, and you're going to be just fine. I hope this was helpful for you. If you like this video, please give it a thumbs up, subscribe, and let me know in the from what I've just shared with you. Good luck with your interview and thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in