- This is an MRI machine, and that's me going inside to see what it looks like when and believes it. I lie and you lie, we all lie. And more importantly, we all believe lies. And no matter who you are or what you believe, that reality is going to be more important than ever this year. It turns out that lying than you'd think. It feels good to say lies And I wanna understand why, why do we lie? Why do we believe lies? And is there anything we can do about it? - [Speaker] Why does Joe - I will always tell you the truth. Four Pinocchios on that one and there's no evidence to support it. - It turns out that people what is a lie and what is fraud. - [Speaker] You regret at to the American people? - [Trump] All the what? - [Speaker] All the - [Trump] That who has done? (soft music) - I'm on the campus of MIT, I'm about to go into this building where they do research on I'm gonna meet with one of who's gonna talk to me about what happens when lies enter my brain. (soft music) I'm Johnny. - Hi, Tali. Nice to finally meet you, how are you? - The primary role of ferrous detectors is to prevent the catastrophic, the big things flying into the magnet because if you walk in with an oxygen cylinder And it will annihilate - [Speaker] God, look at that. - [Speaker] Yeah, oh my. - [Speaker] It would fly in there. - How do I look? - [Speaker] Better than ever. - Hey, I'm gonna just to thank today's sponsor. Sponsors are what allow us And I'm really grateful for Trainwell for supporting this video and lots of other videos on our channel. Trainwell used to be called Copilot. And what it is, is a platform and work out more frequently and accountability. So here's how it works, You get paired with a personalized trainer that you start communicating with. I did my call with my trainer, Devin, and told him all about what my goals are. For me, I'm really into like mobility. Like I wanna be able to and like just have like general mobility. I also had some like back He took all of that information and designed a totally It's all on the app with that are done through through your workout so you don't have to make any decisions. At the end of your and give feedback to your You can be like, &quot;Hey, that was too easy&quot; or &quot;That was too hard,&quot; or &quot;I Can you find another one?&quot; Or, &quot;I'm not feeling like Your trainer then to reflect that feedback and with time your workout plan I've had moments where I've and started fresh based and my trainer is there with really prompt One of the hardest parts about consistent exercise Usually no one is holding you accountable so you end up just not doing it. What I like about Trainwell is that you have a real that is asking, how did your workout go? Who can see when you do your workout. And that just real world accountability has made a huge difference for me. And apparently a lot of other people. Trainwell found that people to have a consistent routine. I work out four times a week So thank you Trainwell for so there's a link in my description. It is go.trainwell.net/JohnnyHarris. When you click that link, it but it also gets you in on 14 days of free personalized You can try it out for free and just see if this is something that could change your and go from there. And just to clarify again, Trainwell used to be called Copilot. They're now called Trainwell, for sponsoring today's video, With that, let's dive (warm music) So I'm gonna go in there, of a lot of different things and we're gonna see how my brain reacts. We're gonna see what we can learn about how the brain ingests and processes information, for, what it cares about. - [Speaker] How you doing? - [Speaker] Awesome, so from the control room. - [Johnny] Okay. - [Speaker] So this next scan is about five and a half minutes. - [Johnny] Okay. - [Speaker] Here we go. - We can go from the front of the head to the back of the head. Oh my God, this is insane. - Information is processed by the brain, like primary rewards like and also what we call secondary So the same system, reward that is evolved probably to seek food so we can survive is to seek information. (upbeat music) - Okay, so we love information, but I'm also learning that But not all lies are the And we actually have some starting with the goldmine treasure trove from 2004 &quot;Mean Girls&quot;. - Oh my God, she's so annoying. - [Speaker] One time she it was awesome. - So number one, a lot of to not hurt other people's feelings. Like the classic giving when you really don't mean it. - Vintage, so adorable. - Thanks. - That is the ugliest - Or lying to avoid telling someone that you actually don't - I can't go out, (coughs) I'm sick. - But then there are lies that start to become a little bit more lying to get gain or advantage over - Is that the summation? - Yeah, they're the same thing. - [Speaker] Wrong, he was so wrong. - I pretended to be bad at - I mean, this is why telling us that if we drink then we'll suddenly be really beautiful and have a lot of friends. (cap popping) Or that if we drink this we will suddenly be beautiful who will single-handedly between police and protestors. Okay, but even these are fairly innocent, like we know what they're doing. The scarier lies, the ones that I'm worried about to protect our tribe or to hurt our enemy and how easy it is to - There is no doubt that Saddam Hussein now has - These are the dangerous lies, the ones that are to make believable. They're the ones that I want which is why I'm making But to do that, I'm I promise I will tell you after So let's start with a little experiment. (upbeat music) Okay, let's set the stage. Imagine your brain looks like this. (upbeat music) It's a construction site that is constantly To build this tower, from the outside world using our senses. That information is brought into our brain and we use it to build So we're inside my brain right now, and look, it's 6:30 in the morning. And because I'm a fan of I've decided to start my and seeing what the Oh and look, here comes all from my social media session. In my little analogy, this information is coming into my brain in the form of bricks. Bricks that are used to build this tower. (graphic twinkling) This tower is my worldview, The things that I think are true. We all have one of these, but whoa, there's way too into my brain right now. I can't process all of this So that's where my A bunch of brain regions and processes dedicated to and deciding which of these Most bricks don't get much scrutiny because most of the stuff and the brain just assumes it's true. Like imagine walking down the street and wondering if that traffic and sitting there and staring at it or wondering if your friend was lying when they said they'd meet You wouldn't get anything done. All of your brain space would in this room right now. It would be impossible to function in this world if every single thing you saw and felt. So we let bricks through Oh, but look, I just opened Facebook and my uncle is posting Look how this information This is not a boring or It is a big new important brick (bright music) and it's a bigger deal for my inspectors because it contains information or threatens my deep desires, This is the type of information that's higher stakes. We often remember this stuff And in my analogy, these bricks, these important bricks are the foundation of our worldview. Okay, now that we've laid that foundation, let's do our experiment some true, some not, and you pay attention to Are you ready? Let's do this. (upbeat music) Okay okay, bricks, here's - Crime is on the rise everywhere and every place is a - Okay, now a few more. - Crime is rising around the country. - I feel less safe. Crime is on the rise. - And crime is on the rise. - Crime is on the rise. - Okay, what do you How did you react to this information, hearing it once and then First, let me just quickly Some crime in major but has since declined according to this data from the Major Here's another good data point. The police departments from three of America's biggest cities report that homicides are trending down. The big crime report that that 2023 saw a 6% across the country from the year previous. And that cities with over decrease in violent crimes. So this assertion that crime in the US is simply not true. It is not factually accurate. Okay, but my point here has What I'm trying to show you - So the Illusory Truth to believe something that - Okay, let's go back to our The Illusory Truth Effect is like that first clip I showed you, &quot;Crime is on the rise everywhere,&quot; and maybe you're skeptical at first, so your inspectors like reject it. It doesn't make it into your tower, but wait, there's like a that slips through these inspectors and settles onto the tower? Wait, what? Okay, but watch what happens next. I then played more clips and even as my inspectors of the brick kept getting through, smoother and easier every time. And look, the brick is of looks like the rest of the bricks. Okay, so you hear and it starts to code as true. And then, and I hate this part, even after that information is debunked, like I looked up all the stats, and I know that that is even then the ghost of the (graphic twinkling) It's still there, and it Like I know this claim is false, but the idea of crime is now and I'm living with increased stress and anxiety about it, even though I'm at a lower - And it's such a strong effect. You do an experiment Yeah, you show subjects and some of them you only show once and some of them you show twice. And then you ask them, oh, is They're more likely to if they've seen them more than once. And the reason is that for the first time, your brain does a lot of work to process it. So imagine I tell you, a shrimp's So you're processing this information, maybe you're imagining Maybe you're thinking about the last time Now the second time I tell you, a shrimp's gut is in its head. You don't need to do as You've heard it before, so And the way that our brain works is that when there's less We just immediately, unconsciously, automatically assume things are true. - [Johnny] So is a - It is. You can see this in the brain scans. I mean, look at this, the misleading information and competes with the good They're both there when you think about crime. The ghost is still in your brain. So yeah, this unfortunate quirk of the brain is called The more you hear something, and it kind of sticks around even after it's been debunked or corrected. And because of that, people who want us to believe them take advantage and over and over until they start to kind of feel like truth. Like that time when Trump insisted that he had like a massive - We had the biggest of inaugural speeches. I looked out, the field was, it looked like a million, - This was the largest audience period, both in person - Sean Spicer, our Press Secretary, gave alternative facts to that, - And he just sort of said even though there was that no, this was not the but when Trump and his people people start to believe it. And yeah, I just wielded against you in the name of I gave you a fake fact, and that fact is maybe as a ghost in your brain. But let me just repeat once that I told you was a lie, it is not true. The crime rate in the United States is not rising everywhere. Do you understand? Sorry. It's just that one of the studies I read said that if I make it then you'll remember better. (upbeat music) Okay, back to the construction site. I want to try to get a few And this next one is the one we have to be probably most vigilant about. It's the hardest one to Oh look, what a surprise. I'm on my phone again and this time I'm on the internet. I deeply agree with this video. And look at these bricks coming in. They're just breezing past my inspectors. They're getting loaded But wait a minute, hold on. These are high stakes bricks, like the important emotional information, shouldn't they get careful inspection? Wait, what's going on? Why are these bricks getting Why is no one looking at these? Yeah, I'm looking at you. (creatures snoring) Hold on and who's that? Okay, there's a lot going on here. Let me explain. These bricks, we'll call these They're kinda like the who have platinum status and and get priority boarding, but in this case, priority These bricks are bits of with your preexisting beliefs. They fit really nicely I mean, look at how into my worldview, I love this. (upbeat music) So the inspectors see these bricks arrive and they compare it to And if it looks kind of like the bricks that are already there, they No need to waste time thoroughly Wait, what the, who is this? Who let you in here, who are you? - I'm Dorothy. AKA, the dopamine fairy who we've decided to call Dorothy because we make videos on the internet and kind of do whatever we want. Honestly, Dorothy's great. She shows up and makes us feel happy whenever we do something or the survival of our species. So whenever these high stakes through inspection quickly and fortify our already for fortifying our worldview, for making us feel safe in our to use the valuable, limited You're making everyone's job easier. So give everyone a bonus, The result is a good feeling, Okay, but let's go into and see what this looks like. I'm gonna do that thing again I put bricks into your brain. These ones are gonna be a little And like on the real internet, or misleading while others I'll disclose all of that after What I want you to do here as I throw these bricks into to how they feel. Do you agree with them? Do you want to agree with them? Does it feel good to agree with them or does it feel good to reject them? Does it make you feel angry? Does it make you feel excited? Did you just learn something to tell your uncle at that you can once and for all prove that you are right and he is wrong. - Here I am, woo. Janksgiving is on. - It's an amazing feeling. Is Dorothy present for you? Pay attention, here they come. (upbeat music) All right, first one, immigration. Look at this tweet, under illegal border crossings are reaching an all time high. Okay, all time high, How did that hit for you? Watch it again if you need to. Next this Instagram post, it says that Biden has been to fund both the Israeli army This post gives specific that Biden is quote, funding Okay, remember, I'm of these are true and if and all of that at the end. Let's keep going, next, abortion. Here's a tweet that I that apparently shows Trump saying that he thinks he to throw doctors who and that people should how dangerous Trump's authoritarianism is. That same clip with a by the Governor of California. Okay, I didn't watch the Pay attention to how Last one, President Zelenskyy, recently bought two luxury quote, amidst heavy like using money from the West. This was reported in an by a Republican lawmaker, saying that American taxpayers are funding deep corruption in Ukraine. (soft upbeat music) Okay, so illegal border crossings, are they at an all time high? So full disclosure, if you're gonna see a lot of I think it should be a to come to this country. I think we need to fix that. That is like a deeply held belief of mine, given my life experience And I'm also aware that people as a way to sort of rile to politicize it, to So I'm pretty skeptical that claims an all time and Biden is way worse than Trump on this. So my natural inclination to reject it outright and say like, no, this is probably misleading. It turns out I am totally wrong. This data is absolutely solid reported from the border patrol This is an accurate graph. Whether I like it or not, I should let this brick into my tower. It's not gonna change a ton about how I think about immigration and what I hope policymakers - It's the truth, it's actual. - I need to let it in and If you're someone who is very critical of the Biden administration and how they've handled immigration, you may have let this in because it was preferred information, it confirmed your worldview Next up, Biden funding every (upbeat music) Okay, when I read this, I and I sort of was like, I've been quite critical of to give money and weapons They've done that many times. It wouldn't be surprising to So I kind of let it slip in another brick to confirm my worldview that we have a overly But no, once again, I'm wrong. There's some facts in here. But overall, this post is misleading. Yes, the US does give aid to Palestinians, but it's humanitarian of emergency shelter, food, mental health, psychological support. And it does not go to Hamas' military wing like the visual in this post asserts. One thing that is true is of money in weapons to which they're now using But again, this post is It is not giving me a factual picture of what is going on here, but Okay, that's two in a row sort of let a couple bricks in, see if we can do better here. Okay, let's get to the last two here. Did Trump say that he to throw doctors in jail if proof of his authoritarianism? I mean, this would not be Trump has all kinds of and says crazy stuff all the time. So if he said that he to throw a doctor in jail, I would be like, yeah, Okay, but watch what happens when you actually watch the clip. - Questions about abortion. But do you think a who will perform abortions? - I'll let that be to the states. Everything we're doing now And what we wanted to do is because for 53 years it's been a fight and now the states are handling it and some have handled it very well, and the others will end And those are the things to make a determination about. (reporter chattering) So, he didn't say that. He did not say the thing What he said is still problematic to me and deserves scrutiny. But now it's all muddled because there's misinformation involved. Someone has totally that draws the attention into to actually being able to scrutinize how Trump thinks about That's what's so toxic When I see it on things that with, I feel so disappointed that information didn't which would've been so much more powerful. (host yelling) So once again, I fell prey Boy, oh boy, it's a hard world out there. Last one, did President to buy two yachts worth by Marjorie Taylor Greene, Like no, like I immediately rejected this. I was like, you do not speak This feels outlandish. I tagged it as false right This is totally 100% made up. In fact, even on the tweet, that the link she posted comes as a Russian propaganda website. It's a totally made up story, but this factless brick of a bunch of Republican by design were thinking or not we should give more money to them. And in the back room deliberations, while they were talking that they said, &quot;They are corrupt and they're maybe gonna buy It worked, the brick got in, and the funding was delayed, but stuff like this to that discussion. Now the funding did eventually get passed as we're recording this, So anyway, the point is this into the brains of people and by the Russian government, no less. (bright music) So that my friends is confirmation bias. It is the lovely feeling with information that whether it's true or not. If it confirms your worldview, and your group's identity, to accept it without - We're also more likely to go out and seek information, opinions, and data that confirms And on the other hand, we're less likely to believe information that goes against what we already believe and less likely to go and seek it out. - That's what we gotta be careful about. That's the dangerous stuff. - [Narrator] More doctors smoke Camels than any other cigarette. - Let's just switch gears for one second and ask a very important Why does our brain have that makes us so susceptible to lies? And the answer is that for a lot of years, that's what kept us safe. (soft music) Believing in myths and stories was actually for most of our history. It allowed us to organize around leaders who we or to believe that there who would reward us with good weather, which meant healthy crops, which was literally our food source, all if we obeyed the same rules. Anything that conflicted with these stories was a threat to what kept our group which for a long time was our survival. - What is true is not always the thing that will get us a reward and but not always. So we have beliefs that can actually lead to positive outcomes despite the fact that these beliefs are untrue. So for example, believing in God. So in some locations, believing in God can to get a job perhaps in some states or some countries, right? In many situations, believing in God will get So it doesn't, regardless of whether it's an accurate or Believing in God can and help you avoid harm and therefore in increase your survival. - [Johnny] So our brains that promotes safety within our group. Social cooperation, not to us in statistics and nuanced data sets, but eventually we learned and produce shared facts. That allowed us to thrive in new ways. But our brains unfortunately to crave facts and truth. We still have the old to feel safe in our We want visits from the dopamine fairy, whether that comes from truth or lies. And as you all know, that feeling is exactly what we all have now. (eerie music) A few years ago we invented system that custom delivers only the preferred bricks, through, the ones that earn us a visit from our favorite fairy. It's incredible technology, from the comfort of our own home, I can connect with people who have the same preferred bricks as me. We can build our towers and build bridges between them so we can share our preferred giving each other bricks confirm our safety. And God, it feels good, it's You are safe here. And whenever someone else of tower shows up to the neighborhood and tells you in 280 characters that make up the foundation and that you're an idiot that way, you and everyone in to fire arrows at them from afar. Oh look, and here comes the for dunking on this enemy, to further bond with your - If you think about how we evolved, it was mostly experiences, or hearing the experience that are close to us, right? Now of course we can go online and we can get this information, epistemic knowledge in And of course the difference and we can also search for specific things So now we are directing what What do I Google, who do I follow? - None of us are immune It is incredibly human. We crave that feeling our tower is firm, we are safe. And now that message and night with bright It's social, it's new but really, it's a feeling and we've mastered it, good for us. (soft music) Okay, but it's not all doom and gloom. I know that we hear this all of the time and it feels like our brains are broken and social media has hijacked us and there's nothing we can do about it. But I actually believe in human brains. I mean, look what we've done, if there's anything humans can do, it is transcend our natural impulses to find more enlightened and to create real safety and real connection, not So I think we can do this. We're just at a moment in time where it's gonna take some work. So as we all go back into that is now laced with misinformation and lies, let me give you a to navigate this world. (upbeat music) Number one, pay attention to your bricks. Just pay attention like we've how that information hits your brain, how you want to reject it or accept it without what that feels like. I think that's step one for all of us. I know I am sharpening my sense and thought about this more. I'm gonna walk away from and desire to put some friction in that often frictionless experience that confirm my previously So pay attention, number two, remember how we actually change someone's mind. Most of us every day see or post that we deeply disagree with and that we think is based off of lies or misleading information. I will tell you, and there's That one way to not change to yell at them and tell In fact, new studies are to prove somebody wrong, actually has the opposite effect, forcing us to refortify our towers. The more we yell at each and the less we talk to each other, the less people's minds change. (whistles blowing) So if you're someone who or leaves those types of comments that the only person You're not serving anyone else. You are serving that feeling that comment that confirms your identity. You do you, but you're not Number three, and my last of I don't know, which, this is kind of a big one, The more I think about that it's quite silly that we of us are going to have these refined, well-argued opinions about every hot button issue of the day. No one has that, but we because we're afraid or &quot;I don't understand.&quot; And yet some of the smartest who say, &quot;I don't who listen more, and who are curious. Arriving curious is an and it opens you up to And ironically, helps with understand you better. This doesn't mean agreeing or being so open-minded, that You should have your morals, But try to arrive curious. Try to empathize with the that you disagree with and believe it and why they might do that. You might not get the short term buzz that you get when you argue and you yell, but I promise that arriving actually fosters long-term security. So that's it, that's the video. - [Crowd] USA, USA. (audience clamors) As we head into this election, we're gonna hear a lot of lies. People are going to want us to believe things that are not true. I hope we can pay attention and see this information for what it is. (soft upbeat music) And I hope through curiosity and understanding, we where our bricks start to look the same. We can agree on some I don't know if that's or 20 years from now, or 100, but I believe that we humans Even if the incentives of media and social media algorithms I think we can, but it's of what goes into our own - And so this is especially like outrageous lies, if you think about like - Yeah, for these big fraudsters, like Because probably the person they could not imagine doing something to such a large extent, so it's difficult for them to figure out that this is a lie. Well, for the kind of smaller lies, like upping your height or something, people because they're more likely - I see. - Thank you Trainwell for for supporting our journalism. And just to clarify again, Trainwell used to be called Copilot. They're now called Trainwell. (soft upbeat music)