Hi guys so today we're talking about Well, that's you as an adult, but before that and helpless cub. You could be born in a number to be the same is that you're born in a forest. cubs only have a 50% survival rate. Luckily of success. You're currently getting her full water and snack breaks. She licks you to stimulate feces to hide your scent from other predators. eyes and see the beauty of the world for the already spending less time with you and goes out she brings one of these back for you to try for this age your vision is fully developed and you the local area. She then decides to make a new den Most things won't mess with you because your but there are some predators including adult what each other look like and he doesn't care. to get your bearings in life. As you grow one of cub growing the quickest and winning all your in the den without mum for several days at a time, you've gone from a bag of sugar to the size of a with mum. It's now been half a year since you've but you're going to have to learn to get it some early levels in the stealth skill. This is You also start to explore the whole of your mom's go on. Coming up to a year in the forest and like birds and the occasional small deer, still perfect so you spend the coming months practicing At around 22 months old you and your siblings the forest for the lot of you, and it's starting hunting level so you all decide it's time to part about to leave you can't help but think about You are now an independent tiger. You've Ireland to get away from your family and find You preference eating one large meal a week hours a day. After waiting for nightfall a lonesome Sambar Deer. Sneaking through the until an overeager step gets you noticed. You of stealth so you save it for next time. Hh well, It's been another day so so you look for something primate just foraging away and get close. When bite the back of their neck breaking the holding on till they stop moving. That'll see you potential territory you spot a few markings and a good sign. You spot some rustling in the trees if worse comes to worse. You hit crouch, get Right safe again. You might get a lot of that as market. Now back to the roars in the distance. and oh look, there they are. The adult displays so you decide to roll over onto your back and Thinking they're all powerful the adult tiger as you keep your distance. But like some kind of the coming years and take control of the territory reaching maturity at 3 or 4 if female, or 4 or 5 that now's the time. There's not enough prey As you prepare for battle you're knocked off your else had the same idea. Several bites, paw swings and are given the option to end or spare like nearly 100 a year easily. What's one more? good karma and that. You now have your own and go around scratching everything you can, and leaving blobs of feces on various trails. Cool etc... but this time you don't get spotted. You biting the throat and holding on with your the ground. Now you just hold on till the end. and celebrate by expanding your throat to gorge left so you drag it to one side and conceal it very large mammals has left you with a few cuts antiseptic saliva they all heal up nicely. As you predator survival tools, including round pupiled dark than humans, massive teeth, massive paws, own unique pattern. Orange may not seem like the sees this as green. You're now at that age when which could mean a long journey ahead. You can go death, so you want to get some food, quickly. You appeared close to your territory. Here you can or humans. Just as you start to get close it might something looks off. As you get closer and closer right there so... you keep your defense threat Right guess it's the hard way. [Fun Music]. Huh. kids? So many questions You don't ask. Just share their way. You can now get on with trying to mate. territories, and you may have to travel even to try and pick up a scent, only to encounter predators will typically avoid you opting for typically avoid them too, not worth a fuss, but in journey. May seem harsh but you have an important everything's population in check. You keep going wide river using your large webbed paws, till female you will be spending your time frequently smelling urine, and roaring, a lot. Once a male you spend the next five or six days together There's no particular season you mate in just the line you've found a den and you give birth to 4 but could be as many as 6 or 7. Let's see how spend a lot of time with the cubs before leaving prey back for them. You protect them, show them separate after nearly two years together. That sleep, and prepare to do the whole cycle over and have somehow made it to the mid teens. You're most powerful predator in the forest. You're which doesn't taste very sweet, probably then you pick up a scent and quickly turn around. would try and take your territory. You pull the Really... [Music] Oh you should have been there I think I even got 20 or so myself. Best, trip, ever. Don't think anyone's ever going to beat that [Music]