Oh, Gordon. Having to deal with bad food, bad chefs, bad People might even forget that Gordon actually Like we've seen in our two previous videos, It's just pretty rare. That's why we continued to search high and times in Gordon's life. Perfect Sausage Rolls Sausage rolls are a popular British snack. So, when Dustin decided to cook them for Gordon, Worse yet, Dustin got confused with Gordon's This blunder wasn't enough to take the excitement After all, he loves the dish. Dustin was apprehensive when Gordon took the But then, Gordon took another bite. And then another. Getting Gordon Ramsay to enthusiastically Before we move on to more Gordon Gordon goodness, and never miss a new video from us here at Now, back to the show. The Miraculous Vegan Burger Just in case you don't know, Gordon isn't But then came Shayne, who made a vegan burger The fake meat was bound with black beans and With his first bite, Gordon was impressed. The avocado fries looked like a delicious sauce. All in all, you could say that this burger Why? Impressing Gordon on Live TV You gotta wonder what's wrong with the people If Gordon hates your food, you going to have Here, he was going to try dishes from both First, it's the critique of the team "Licensed Now, it's time for the next team, "chop He dipped the quesadilla in the creamy avocado How about that? Gordon ate two dishes in a row, prepared by That may be as rare as Halley's Comet. Just Some Good Fries All different types of chefs, from all corners Ramsay and utterly failed. So imagine their reaction to this clip from The challenge? To cook some good ol' french fries. When it came time to critique Brandi's fries, They look perfectly thick and were all pretty They had very consistent cuts, with the same But, of course, they also tasted delicious. A cheap dessert When Luca got called up he wasn't confident He didn't even believe his cake was properly Chef Joe was the first to evaluate, and lo Next up, it was Gordon's turn to taste it. The cake might have been cooked, but would Getting a "quite nice" from Gordon Ramsay Bananas Foster from a Flamboyant Chef No one was quite like Tommy Walton, who was But Tommy wasn't just entertaining to watch. He was also a good chef. When it came to the critiques, Tommy was called Which, as you can imagine, made him very happy. The inside held even more delicious ingredient For all of you who have a sweet tooth, this Gordon was wowed by it. Gordon summed it up in just one word. A Kid Chef With A Phenomenal Dish Watching Masterchef Junior, you sometimes are even better than the adults. Take Remy's lamb chops, for example. It looked like something straight out of an Gordon was in awe - not surprisingly! The meat was perfectly seared, just the way To sum things up, just let Gordon have the An Impressive Salmon When the judges revealed the main ingredient who seemed sure he would do a good job. Showing confidence in reality shows, usually these scenarios in such a way to set up people But that wasn't the case with Christian. First of all, his plate looked amazing. When Ramsay cut the salmon open, you could It looked incredible. After getting so many compliments from Gordon, The salmon tasted amazing, with the spices An "OMFG" dessert When Jenna was called to show her dessert Gordon was so excited he didn't even wait He just went ahead and tasted it! He tasted it but hid his reaction at first. He even laughed, seeing how the little chef It is Gordon we're talking about, after He then dropped his facade. Gordon even let out an "OMFG". Beef Wellington In the very first season of Masterchef Junior, That almost seemed cruel to those kids. Not only that, they had to make perfect mashed But wouldn't you know, Troy and Alexander But the question about this dish was if it Gordon was stunned. He said it was phenomenal. Beef Wellington, Second Round It wasn't just one Beef Wellington that Another team made a delicious rendition of Not only was it properly cooked, it looked Gordon liked it so much, he was motivated The chef was properly impressed by the 12 We certainly want one now, after looking at A Show-Stopping Filet Mignon Here is Alexander again, cooking another perfect This time, it's a pan-seared filet mignon The steak, once again, looked completely delicious. Gordon only had more good things to say about At 13 years old, Alexander can stand tall You can say that Gordon found a kindred spirit Alexander's Dessert If you thought he cooked a mean steak, wait Gordon was impressed with his choice. The end result? You guessed it. Gordon took one bite and loved it. He even threw manners out the window, picking So, how would he be able to top himself? Tasty Sardines From an ingredient in the mystery box, Sarah At 9 years old, that's very impressive. Not something many kids would like to eat For the critiques, Sarah first had to pass He asked her a bunch of questions. Anyway, Joe loved the sardines. Gordon wasn't any different. He complimented how good the dish looked and The salad was perfectly balanced and the sardines The Perfectly Replicated Sashimi Coming up to the stands, Christine was a bit She had to perfectly recreate the flavor and Which sounds like a very hard thing to do That's why it was even more impressive when Gordon was so impressed, in fact, that he Everything was right about the dish. The position, the drizzle of the passionfruit. Gordon was in disbelief. No, he wasn't. Christine was just that good. See? Gordon does actually like other people's He just has one of the highest standards out But when he does eat something delicious, Don't miss out on your chance to win an All you have to do is hit the subscribe button Then click the description to increase your Good luck!