Before we get started I wanted to let you know, today's episode is brought to Space: The Longest Goodbye. Available now on the PBS App and YouTube. So check out the link below. We are the middle children of history. Born to explore the universe --- to partially quote matched by their anonymity. In the far future like matter-antimatter engines and compact to other stars on timescales shorter than their materialize? Are we imprisoned by the vastness of our origin? Perhaps not. A possible path to a ship which can support human life for several Faster than light travel is almost certainly of relativity--and we rarely win when we bet for the galactic future of humanity given that and there are relatively few stars within what But that doesn't mean we can't reach for the reaching 80, 90, even 99% the speed of light clock of the spacecraft relative to Earth's. interstellar destination up to 100s of light such speeds would require some pretty out-there compact fusion reactors, or even black do build such devices, there are a whole traveling through the cosmos at such high So, what if it turns out we have to travel the humans any faster than a tiny fraction of the really really need to leave Earth ASAP using OK, Here's the scenario: Something is coming. It collapse or the Tri-Solarian fleet. Whatever that we decide to insure the future of our Quite naturally, NASA tasks PBS Space Proxima Centauri B in the Alpha-Centauri system. mere 4.2 light years away. To keep things simple, is already habitable so all we need to do We only have a few decades to make this happen, so We launch whatever we can throw together in around hope to build might reach speeds of 10% that of their 20s and they'll arrive at retirement age. so that no crew that starts the journey will live be 100% reliable within decades--which is pretty in which multiple generations of humans are is made by descendents of the launch crew. It There are lots of decisions to make in how it has to be something we can plausibly to choose a propulsion system, a crew size finally we need to ensure the mental, social and Starting with the propulsion method; this size of the ship, and so the size and number of The fastest vehicle ever built by humans is blasting a propellant--hydrazine in this was really more the gravitational assists that per hour. If we could scale up this tech to at this speed we could get our crew to Proxima-B and roughly the length of recorded human nothing would go wrong in that much time. But we're so we should see if this timescale assumption made by French scientists Frederic studies, and we'll be coming back to their We'll also consider a much faster fusion--smashing light elements together to just like the Sun does. We haven't yet managed let alone the sort of compact reactor we'd technology that we've thoroughly mastered--and various concepts for spacecraft that pulses--aka explosions--rather than sustained from the more advanced internal confinement if scarier proposals where you literally detonate like in Project Orion or the Enzmann starship, Top speeds for some of these have been estimated A little under 10% is more realistic for a with our limited timeline, we're going to assume times faster than our conventional drive, so four or five generations. So, today we're going if fusion pans out and 6300 years if not. We'll these as representing the extreme boundaries of The next decision will influence all of the sending? This determines the size of the ship Perhaps the most important factor determining issue of genetic diversity. There are two aspects healthy multigenerational crew during the journey, A 6300 year journey means 200 generations the starting population isn't sufficient there Beluffi explore this question in a 2018 paper. the minimum number of humans that would be needed also accounting for various forms disaster eliminating a third of the population, "chaotic factor" intrinsic to any human up with the minimum numbers needed to the journey. They conclude that we need to multiply to a population of 500--and that's How big a ship does it take to SpaceX's Starship is supposed the equivalent of 5 of those at least? However systems to support 500 lives long term. For that Missions around the solar system don't millenia long trips to Proxima-B will Living in zero gravity or microgravity with the most well documented being on bone Proxima-B as Wall-E-esque gelatinous We've discussed previously how this could be it's not that complicated. The ship's give 1-g of centrifugal acceleration, gravity. There are lots of designs but the simplest might be a rotating ring habitat. per minute to replicate Earth gravity. That The next step is to feed our crew Another study km^2 for an omnivorous and balanced diet. Our of that. So we either send 500 starships produce food more efficiently. That 0.45 km^2 so burger night is the first thing we'll have down 0.015 km^2 if we grow nutrition-dense crops aeroponic systems. That's just 30 starships worth The crew is also going to need protein. from an efficient veggie source, especially there are plausible meat options. Now lab-grown meat but there's a very well established carnivorous traveler. I'm talking about insects. For example, provide extreme protein richness. One to a few Overall, we're going to need something space for food production. And that's for But maybe there are some gourmet yam and A bigger challenge than food is the water, which and also in order to just live. An adult give or take. 500 humans need 1000 liters metric ton. Our 140 year journey may barely--but forget about it for our 6300 year good water recycling. Just recently, the ISS efficiency. Now if that's as good as we get for our supply of reserve water--perhaps one Starship For our 6-millenia-slog we need 50 times that. So haul enough water. And remember that we haven't Maybe add as much water again for 100 starships in we may need to focus on improving our water which brings the reserve storage requirement There is perhaps one upside to and that's that water can double as radiation surrounding habitats is enough to stop a solution that's being considered for a non-relativistic interstellar trip. By the slowly--relatively minimal shielding is sufficient The last ingredient to add to our ship's biosphere is critical here. The ISS currently uses a system Advanced Closed Loop System, which recycles with around 50% efficiency. That's ship because huge supplies of fresh oxygen would we'd probably need to rely heavily on our natural food. There have been various efforts to build a breathable atmosphere. Maybe the most famous is considered. Yes they had to install artificial project at least demonstrated that a combination a breathable atmosphere for some time. We have chance we can come up with an air recycling So maybe we can keep our crew alive or even millenia. But will they be sense of isolation on such a long voyage maintaining the mental health of the crew. to be part of something grander than their The first generation in particular will want the two-way light travel time between the ship ultimately reaching a lag of NASA has done some tests to mitigate from our home world. One solution could be the solace in digital 3D models of comforting and of generation one, their homes and loved ones. and family and well-wishers could be recorded on On our cramped and sterile spaceship, it certain experiences that we on Earth take interactivity of our VR technology we may be of mountains and sunsets, and auditory and and the olfactory joys of a forest or freshly but we can certainly push VR a lot Of course, the humans on the ship will relationships will experience strain, and heightened due to the isolation and confined teamwork is needed for this mission to succeed. But maybe, when tensions rise and trust wanes, party to give advice, confide in, and to overall and learns from the problems of an AI therapist. NASA has already piloted such Preliminary testing seems promising and it AI of this form will be incredibly important Our plan so far will hopefully get our crew physically, and mentally. But how do we crew is still the mission of the landing and skills needed to complete the mission preserve the wealth of cultural knowledge This is where things get more speculative as there this stuff is going to be very important society is going to need a culture and social That structure needs to enable efficient clear hierarchies in each operational area. happiness--otherwise we have a revolution and stable social structure that somehow also and all the various values that we want this Overall, it seems at least possible to build to launch in the not-to-distant future. There are no doubt many more unknown fail points. And the disaster, so maybe we should really focus on to think that this sort of sci-fi endeavor need or our adventurous spirit compels but perhaps we're ready to grow up. Perhaps of gravity and distance to explore the Hey Everyone. If you enjoyed today's episode feature length documentary "Space: The Longest NASA's goal to send astronauts to Mars would which would be twice as long as the current record between the astronauts who dream of space to keep astronauts mentally stable in outer those who dream of space travel must balance harsh psychological realities of space. check out the link below. After June 4th, it