Rachid: Thank you for coming back I'm your host, Rachid Finge. And today is all about falling. Happens to everyone. I fell off the stairs, actually, and found out I broke my foot. And still, I got to say, I got lucky And, of course, that's not a given. What if you're alone or cannot get up? Wouldn't it be great if you could get Well, the good news thanks to a new feature Pixel Watch can detect It could actually save lives. So let's talk more about fall detection of the &quot;Made by Google&quot; podcast. Our guests know everything about it. I mean, they made it. So with us are Paras Unadkat and Edward Shi from our safety teams. [upbeat music] Paras, Edward, welcome Please tell us a little bit and how you ended up here. Paras, maybe we can start with you. Paras: Yeah, so I'm a product manager And I was a product lead I work on a number of our sensors basically using the sensing along with our amazing to create great features for our users. Rachid: Amazing. Edward: Yeah, I'm also a product manager on the Android and Pixel safety team. And I've been working to help users feel and be safer, in this case, fall detection. And when I heard Paras and I basically thought given the cross section and the safety themes of the feature. Rachid: Today's guests work together using the latest in technology. Paras Unadkat joined Google working on machine learning but then joined Google Earth, where he works on the cross section making sure those sensors If Paras' work is making then it's Edward's work to make useful Edward Shi works on our safety teams. You might have seen the personal That's Edward's team. So often, the whole is greater And the work of Paras and Edward Let's hear from them how and how Edward went above and beyond, I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. Let's bring this I actually fell Now, let's say that would have I was wearing my Pixel Watch, Edward, what happens when I fall Edward: Well, first off, I think you're OK, Rachid: Yeah, pretty much. Edward: When Pixel Watch it'll wait and see Now, if you don't move it will start to display a fall detected to check in and see if you need help. Now, during this time, so you know that Pixel Watch And you can, of course, So in the case that you need help, to be connected immediately or if you're OK, and you don't on your watch face Rachid: All right. Edward: Now, otherwise, if you're Pixel Watch will automatically attempt and play an automated message that a possible fall, you didn't respond, so emergency services During this time, you can also speak to an emergency let them know that you need help or not. Rachid: Amazing, OK, and additional 30 seconds Now, Paras, it's, I guess, that the watch detects the fall So how does it do that? Paras: So the fall detection feature that works based on the motion sensors And it uses machine learning between the motion signatures like you were saying, compared to things that might look like falls, doing burpees, kettlebell swings, There's no way but by collecting a lot of data across all these different data sets our model does a pretty good job between different types Rachid: I find it interesting because, which give me a sort of headache, that gives you a completely where you need to be able So how do you keep the two apart? Paras: So it really just comes down And by collecting a large data set along with a huge data set things like burpees, different types all sorts of things like that-- we've been able to build a model of being able differentiate between those different Rachid: OK, and we'll get back to how But, Edward, we were just discussing and the 60 seconds where, actually, if you're unresponsive after a fall. So how do you decide and then an additional minute Edward: Yeah, and to start, any time when a fall is detected, users can immediately by tapping the &quot;I fell and need help&quot; And that's really important to us. But that being said, we wanted to ensure if they are able to after a fall. For instance, we know they're able to recover themselves, to call emergency services. So we wanted to give them to dismiss that call essentially, if help isn't needed. We also know at the same time, unintentionally calling a really stressful experience and it can be burdensome So with the 30 and the 60 seconds, to indicate that they're OK while algorithmic at the same time, if we detect their significant movement, we can also stop that automated call So this is our approach, to balance getting users help quickly caused by unintentional calls. Rachid: And how does that go like So at some point, you're gonna say, It's gonna be 30. Edward: Yeah, that we were trying to do it's providing being able to detect and when they're just doing burpees, or when they're just getting up So because of that, we kind of built in where we sort make sure that, or do any of that, and say that, we just make sure that they're underneath a particular stillness Rachid: Right. Edward: And the idea is that, and they're actually unable we'll be there but we won't spam them with any alerts Rachid: Right, so let's say I actually mean soccer, and I'm wearing a Pixel Watch, but I stand up immediately Then I will not get any notification OK, it seems to be, Edward: We know you're OK, exactly. We don't want to take you We don't want to cause a bunch of chaos, Rachid: Perfect, now, for the people we have this tradition which is where we test products with the whole Google population, so the product teams get Now, I'm just wondering, Paras, dog food invitation for maybe, volunteering to fall I'm just so curious how you likely without-- Paras: Yeah. No, you definitely didn't miss about us collecting data from Googlers. We wanted to collect-- just make sure we collected all and nobody got hurt. So no Googlers were harmed Rachid: All right, and what was How do you gather that data? Paras: Yeah, So obviously, the problem of gathering You can't exactly ask people Rachid: Sure. Paras: And there are that impact how a fall looks So if you ask somebody to go that doesn't look like a real fall The level of impact The thing that causes harm is the thing which means that it's really difficult So we had a few different ways Initially, early on in the program, of different university labs to really just understand Collected a ton of data that way-- a lot of harness arrested falls, set them up on a bunch to kind of have them lose balance, figure out what that all looked like, what the different components and different types of falls, So we collected a lot We also had other real-world and simulated data. And one of the biggest problems that you is the problem of data set variability, but you can't collect every And there's so many different ways people might fall and might be harmed. So one of the ways that we approached with the Google research team to use that we'd collected of people falling into a simulation space and simulate to really augment our data set So we still had But to make it even bigger and just of different falls to really make sure on all the different varieties we were able to tune things different body types, different weights different surfaces of people falling on, just different ways of falling to really And then one of the more that we were able to validate on real-world data, of stunt doubles for a week. Rachid: Oh, really? Paras: Basically just directing here's, like, different types of falls Rachid: That's amazing. Paras: And it was like-- But I think a combination of all a lot of confidence that our algorithm is gonna be working really well to detect these types of events Rachid: I think we can, that no people were harmed Paras: Yes. Maybe that's a good thing to say. Paras: Done very safely and with all in place, but really as much real-world, in the safest possible way. Rachid: Excellent, now, Edward, on something like crash detection I'm wondering, like, when do you decide that the system is Is there something Edward: Truthfully, and we're always looking And so a lot of the different criteria also applies in similar ways We really look at, OK, that we want to capture. We want to make sure for crashes above a certain speed, And so when we have our data, and we that we're really optimizing for, of course, an actual crash is detected, and then we also, anything that may look like a crash, So it's striking a good balance And when we look at the data, before we actually release Rachid: Amazing, and, of course, for people who own the watch. I'm just wondering, from maybe have you already experienced or have you seen people maybe testing it that they had the feature on the device? Edward: It's funny that you mention it. When Paras said I did take some voluntary falls And I may have had like a bruised elbow, In that sense, I've been fortunate but I'm definitely relieved. And I have that extra peace of mind I trust and believe in our product Rachid: Amazing, so that's absolutely great. Now, we close every episode with a top tip for our listeners. [upbeat music] How can they get the most Paras: I think one big thing is that a lot of times, as a thing that is really built So you kind of imagine, like, like the &quot;I've fallen and can't get up&quot; But really, widespread problem, and falling down a flight of stairs and you're climbing up on a stool and the stool tips over, So there are all sorts of situations that I think a feature We're very focused in mind developing this feature. So it really, I think, and can really add this element no matter who you are. Rachid: Amazing, and indeed, who might have a harder time getting up, And, Edward, to use fall detection, Do I need to enable anything Edward: Yeah, tactically, I'd say, you want to make sure you've granted on your Pixel Watch. We can still operate without that, we want to make sure we can share so they know precisely So that's my top tip for fall detection. And then separately, at the same time, I know we talked Please feel free to check out our other We have a number of them from crash detection to emergency so all to hopefully help everyone Rachid: Excellent, Paras, Edward, I hope you stay safe out there new personal safety features Thank you so much for talking to us. Edward: Thank you. Rachid: A big thank you Check out the personal safety apps And yes, great advice a location permission so that, on your behalf, We have some more great episodes of So if you don't want to miss those, Next time, we're talking Catch you next time. Talk soon. [upbeat music]