Ahahaha , Xu Guangming, Xu Guangming, my husband, he's on a business trip, he hasn't come back, the blood -stained rat has opened it, the umbilical cord can't be opened, and the umbilical cord will go in. It needs immediate surgery . Where 's the child's father, sir, my wife gave birth to a baby and let me in. Thank you, it's not right . Ah sir, oh sir, look at your children. Also, the child may defecate on the first day. It is green when pulled out. Don't be nervous, because the child eats amniotic fluid in the mother's womb. Turn back and pull it twice , and it will be normal after breastfeeding. Oh , and wait a minute, let's do a hearing screening . Hey, that old lady can't be a human trafficker. Hey, you won't be allowed to enter. Who are you looking for? I'm looking for Ding Xue, oh Ding Xue, he has been transferred back to the ward and has given birth. Ah, Xiaoxue , it was born, and the child was taken away. The child was definitely not taken out of the hospital, but it was stuck and did not go out . The old lady said it was the child's grandmother. I know, wait a minute, brother , look , Xiaoxue gave birth. My daughter, my brother , open your eyes to see what the patient is in here. He is at an advanced stage of liver cancer . It's probably only a few days later. Dad, let 's go. We have a granddaughter . The 915 project, which will bring Tingting to the world, has reached a critical period of research and will soon enter the clinical trial stage . Everyone must do their best. Do n't uninstall it. You don't have to send it. Go slowly, goodbye, Mr. Qi, the 915 project can save the life of our company. I want to invite you to Bingcheng for a demonstration meeting tomorrow . After the school district room is settled , please take a look at the agreement . at a woman for what is it, a good thing or a good thing, let me show you a photo, look at the photo, I told you about the Wang Laowu diamond that day, I tell you not to watch it, look it up, watch it again , if you don't watch it, it will be a long time ago. If you want to do it, I won't give it to him. Oh , let's see how you can bring it to you in your early 60s to see people's faces. If you say that you are in your 50s, some people believe that people are legal experts. He is a guest professor at several universities across the country . Dude, you have been gone for 78 years, so you should think about it. It's not too short for you to be gone in 78 years. It's not too short for you to be 20 or 30 years old. Then you are always too lonely by yourself. I have company. Who, ah , is my companion , that child will grow up, I am my grandma's companion, I don't need to find another companion, oh , oh, oh, oh, what my grandma said in my heart, oh, grandma, I'm full, eat well , and go see Cartoons Good cartoons Oops, this kid just doesn't like soup, just like you did when you were a kid, please sit down, we have something to tell you . You can all guess that you are pregnant with a second child, and there is nothing messy about it. Oh , you can say it. I will say it. Dad , I will tell you this . Things are humming, oh , it's too hard to say , yes, it's me and the little one Xue, the two of us are preparing for a divorce. What 's the matter? You are joking about divorce. Do you listen to me explain to you? This is the case. Isn't the Guangming Research Institute cooperating with a pharmaceutical factory? That boss also has a real estate company for development. I bought a house in the school district and it was sold out as soon as it opened, but they kept a few privately for promotion and promised to sell us one at the original price . So, we are going to buy another house. I want to ask you about your house before you bought it. How many years have you lived for a few years ? You want to buy a house . It's in the school district of a key primary school. We're not all doing this for Tingting. For Tingting, don't ask me about divorce. Even if it's the original price, you have to take out a loan for the first home. We have to pay 30% for a second house and 70%, and we can't get 70% of it, so we can only get a grievance and go for a fake divorce . That is to say, the first thing is to get a loan, um, the loan is to buy a house in the school district, so that 's why I need a fake divorce, well, who asked you to do this kind of outrageous thing, I told you not to tell you, Tingting knows, how could I tell Tingting? We have to hurry up on this matter. After this village, there will be no such shop. It's alright . Hey, what time does Missy get up? I'll tell you. Today, Tingting is going to take a graduation photo. Qian Do n't let the child be late Tingting, grandma is here , come out quickly. Here's your help. I took a call in the middle of the night on a business trip and went to the ice city with a door sewing machine early in the morning . Yeah, what people told you, I'll tell you again . I don't agree with what you said yesterday. It's my own business. I'm your mother. I'm not a child, so I can't do stupid things . The Beijing meeting will be fine . You bring Tingting back to the Civil Affairs Bureau, right? Bright is in Bingcheng. I will travel to the Civil Affairs Bureau alone. Hey, alright, don't worry about it. Come to 123 Eggplant. Everyone knows the budget given this time. With such a small amount of money , all aspects must be inspected by the inspectors. As for who can participate in this Beijing meeting , the council committee will announce it after it has been finalized. I didn't make it by then. I hope you can understand my difficulties , Ding Xue this time . Why don't you do me a favor, carry forward your style , and let Gu Xiaoman play it ? Miaozi, if I don't give young people a chance, I won't be able to keep anyone. Besides , Gu Xiaoman has been on the team for so many years , and he has his own difficulties at home. Xiaoman has persisted for so many years. I graduated from the Conservatory of Music and was assigned to the troupe. I have been insisting on insisting that I am older than him. Let me introduce him . This is Mr. Kang Youdekang , a well-known expert and scholar in the legal field of our country. I dare not dare to be an ordinary legal customer. Hahaha , hello , this is his precious granddaughter, Xu Tingting. Calling grandpa, good grandfather, hello, hello, hahaha , Mr. Kang I want to explain first that this Damei is a very enthusiastic person. Today I was dragged by him. Did n't I agree that I should know more friends. I can't let Mr. Kang misunderstand me . Head, please don't comfort me. Anyway , I have to go to Beijing this time. I really don't want to comfort you . That Mr. Xue has been here several times, and we wanted to invite you to go when we were famous. Mr. Xue was the one who performed the night show at Haicheng Castle. Oh , this is his business card, can you contact him? You are talking about this grass-roots team . Don't look at this private performing arts company, which can make millions of dollars a year . Do n't talk about it, say 10,000 and 10,000 yuan. I won't let this performance opportunity. Well, okay, okay, you , let me think about it, don't think about it, just make it like this. Hey Lijuan , take this business card first . What if one day you figure it out, who are you the head of the regiment or I am the head of the regiment, we know it ourselves, it's getting old, people have more problems, you can't understand many things , but you still want to say, but you said it It will make people unhappy, Dad , you see the wrong person tomorrow. Dad is going on a business trip. How could it be Dad? Where is Dad? Well, Guangming is on a business trip . Is it Tingting's father? Grandma Mei , that's my father who just left in the car. Otherwise, I'll make a phone call and ask directly . Who should I call , Xu Guangming? Think about the consequences , if you tell them whether it's true or not, then you Ding Xuelian will have a fiery temper, and you will destroy the two of them, understand? Then you mean that when you see it, you pretend not to see it, yes , you don't see anything. Nothing happened hahahahahaha hahaha hahahaha, hahaha ha ha ha to back , Aunt Mei, my mother, my mother, let me see something and let me watch the sunny day and change the shoes . It's windy, I'm here to find some clothes for him . It's the study room. Tingting 's room is here. I 'm looking for your bedroom. Teacher Xu is here. I am neither your class teacher nor your graduation thesis supervisor. Why does such a good thing fall on my head? Because you are different in my heart. Hey , ah, ah , right in the hotel. Of course , the hotel is the hotel in Ben Thanh. What's wrong? What's the matter? Forget it. Let's talk about it when you come back. Oh, okay, I 'll be back tomorrow. Okay , there aren't any local specialties in Yuncheng, so I didn't bring anything when I came back. But I bought a gift for Tingting. Does Tingting like it? Come and give him a name, um, his name is Mengmeng , he's my sister , so it 's called Mengmeng . Going to work went smoothly They came back, but their bosses kept us there for dinner . Originally, they wanted to invite me today. I said that I would come back early if I had something to do at home. Dad, I watched it yesterday . Seeing a person who looks exactly like you ca n't be right I'm not feeling well, I want to go back to sleep for a while. If I'm not feeling well, then you go upstairs . I said you're a child, you're a fool. You made it clear what happened to me . You 're a fool The problem is inexplicable . I 'm back. Tingting is sleeping. Come on. What's wrong with mom today? I do n't know . The question said, how can things change ? Okay, let's go to the Civil Affairs Bureau in the afternoon. Did you take the marriage certificate? I didn't move it. Where did it go? I saw it two days ago . Could it be Mom took it It's possible, I finally figured out why my mother was angry. He just didn't want us to get a fake divorce. This certificate must have been taken by him. I can't explain it to him . Why is he getting more and more confused? Then what should I do ? Ah, what should I do? Take it back. Oh , I said, Ding Xue, help me dry 2 pieces of clothes, why hasn't it come yet? Oh , you have finished your work, sit down first, don't worry , Tingting, help grandma to order some meat white , dang dang dang Dangdang, hey , that eldest lady of your mother, the work she did was lit up even before it was cleaned up. Oh , your divorce agreement is too simple. The sharing of education expenses and alimony is in principle, there is no specific amount , and prenuptial property We are all adults, we know what we are doing, we know the risks that exist, we still have something to do in a while, please hurry up, Mom and Dad, Tingting , Mom , why are you already in , give me your marriage certificate and exchange it for me , what are you doing? Well, do n't stop. Listen to my explanation. I don't want to listen . Go in and exchange that marriage certificate for me. I thought it was playing house. This marriage certificate will be invalid if you take it back. It 's useless if you take it back. Okay, go in and go through the remarriage immediately. Oh , what are you doing? We just finished the divorce and came out. Now we go in and think we are trying to make trouble. Are you confused ? Mom, what are you doing? Mom, are you crazy? You care, Xiaoxue , mom is going to serve food and have a break. Can you go to a break? Come and listen. Mom is on a break. Let 's walk around. Don't be angry. You drink some water first. Tingting, go to the house and play first. Dad Say something to grandma, hurry up, hurry up and take grandma's bag in. Mom , what's the matter with you? I'm so angry, Xiaoxue and I are fake divorce . Didn't I tell you before? Do you know why you disagree? Except Worrying about us, it's not because of my business trip We only got news on the way that the boss of the other party went to Shanghai and was temporarily ill , so we Just go to the hotel and have a conference call with him. What about the woman ? That woman is the person in charge of their company here. Their company has booked a room in that hotel as their liaison office here. Mom, we really are. It's a simple work relationship. Why don't you tell me when you come back ? Xiaoxue 's temper is better than me When he went to the hotel , he would be more reluctant if he knew it . If that's the case, I would have 100 mouths, and I can't explain it clearly . Bright, I do n't want to hear about the mess at home. Xiaoxue has a bad temper and a strong temper. You've been wronged at home, I know that , but you have to know that he loves you in his heart. Besides, you two have a Tingting, I know, do n't worry, I won't have any problems, you can still sit at home, why don't you Go to me. At that time, doing my mother's work was more important than anything else. You should call me . I called you . Do n't take it to heart I have nothing else to be fooled , anyway, you can't lie to me , okay , don't worry, I won't lie to you . No, no , then you can go. Hey, won't you come with me? I have to have a meeting with my unit today . Today, I happened to meet someone from their company. If I think I can, I will quickly get the house purchase contract back. We have to do this. Hurry up so that you don't have a lot of sleepless nights, then I'm leaving. You remember that the certificate is ready. Thank you , you 're welcome . Oh, where is the bathroom? Go out and go to the right. Thank you. Well , your uncle explained what happened at the hotel that day. Guangming said that the woman was originally a manager at Bingcheng. On that day, he temporarily canceled a business trip plan and stayed here to hold an online meeting. No matter what meeting, it should be in the office or in the hotel. Xu Guangming said. The liaison office is located in the hotel. Mom , yeah , why are you here? What did you tell Aunt Mei just now? I didn't say anything, really didn't say anything, really didn't say anything. Tingting, tell your mom that grandma took you out to play that day. Is it true that you saw your father? Grandma also saw it. Grandma said it wasn't , but I was wrong. Do you think you saw it wrong? I'm not wrong. You have taught me to be honest and not to lie since I was a child, so tell me now whether Tingting is lying or you are lying, you are too childish, listen to my aunt explain to you Ding Xue, I don't want to hear it, even if you are angry, you have to figure out why, figure it out Be angry, your mother won't follow You said it was for your own good. He didn't tell me what he said to you. Didn't I help him analyze it? Then the result of your analysis is nothing. Don't tell me . Treat me as a blind cage and watch me and Xu Guangming go to the Civil Affairs Bureau. Divorce, oh , you teach me how to say it. If Bingxue doesn't know how to say it, then you can stop talking about our family affairs, okay? Bingxue said it well , but when I found the clinic, I saw you frown. I'm afraid we will wait. Ca n't wait, but clinical trials are necessary, but if it takes that long, we can't wait. If we can't wait, we have to wait. This is the country's regulations. This thing can be changed. There is nothing to change. This is medicine. Entering the body of a person is used to cure diseases and save people, but medicine is also a commodity, even if it is a commodity, it is also a special commodity. Look at the contract . Here is the copy of the ID card. You have to write your wife's name . Who is different? But now the two of you are divorced , so whose name is written is really different, the same, oh , okay, okay, okay, thank you, come back later, okay okay okay okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay , hello, miss, yes. What can I help you with? I want to buy a house. Do you still have a house in your school district? I 'm sorry. You also know that our house is a key school district in the city . Real estate? I heard that you have left a few houses for sale . No, all of our houses are open for sale. You can check. Oh , then you can help me check whether Room 403, Unit 2, Building 3, is sold. Okay. I sold it , I paid the deposit, when did it sell, how much did it cost? Last month, the price was 23,400 per square meter, and the total price was 2.43 million . Thank you. You're welcome. Xu Guangming, Xu Guangming, Xu Guangming , are you talking to me? He kept saying that Xu Guangming was honest. He was looking for a mistress outside and cheated me into getting a divorce by buying a house. You said he was an asshole . How did I persuade you not to do a fake divorce? You won't listen . Now I have to ask you. If you don't tell me when you're a junior, you have to say that Tingting read it wrong and helped him bully me, you beat me, you sit down first, child, I beat you because you are too confused . The relationship between the two is like this glass of water, marriage It is this cup, the love is the water here, no matter how good the relationship is, without this cup , this cup of water is spilled. Today, the two little red books in your hands are this cup. With this cup, you are husband and wife, and you can live together in a down -to-earth way. But I'm even more Xu Guangming , I don't even have a cup with water. I just asked at the sales office. The whole building is sold out, and one set is gone. What are you talking about? He just lied to me for a divorce. There is someone outside. I'll do this, right? I let him hide for a while in eavesdropping . Mom won't let me out because I'm afraid we'll quarrel, but I ca n't listen to you. Xu Gaoming, do you have a mistress or something mistress, what nonsense are you talking about Yeah , both your mother and Tingting saw that you were with Xiaosan. I have already explained this to my mother. Now I will say it to you again. That woman, she is the person in charge of our cooperative company here. We went to the hotel that day for a temporary change of schedule . We went to have a conference call with their boss and went back to solve the problem. I was busy until midnight and I couldn't come back at all. There were many people at that time, don't believe you People ask me to be fair and honest . I 'm clean Clear mom, it's not that I don't want to make it clear. I told you before, but you saw it. No matter what I say, she doesn't believe me. That's the key. For example, this time if I tell you that I don't go home , it must be like this . You will ask. Didn't you go on a business trip to Bingcheng ? Why did n't you go again It's so endless and unreasonable. I really have nothing to say to you. Xu Guangming, you have bad intentions. I have bad intentions. I have bad intentions. We are both divorced now. You lied to me for a divorce by buying a house. Do you admit it ? Ding Xue, let me tell you , we have been married for so many years, and I have never lied to you about anything . What do you like? Xu Gongming, you bastard, you are 5 feet 6 yards, you are a big liar, if you do n't want me, just say you don't want me to listen , will I pester you , cheat me by buying a house , what cheap school district housing you It's a big liar. This is the contract. It's just waiting for you to sign it. Look at it. Look at its name. I lied to you. When have I lied to you? I tell you , Ding Xue . I have something else to do. I'll go first, hurry up, why don't I dare to go ? You go, I'll try, I'll try, I don't even have the right to go now, I'll go, I'll go away Xu Guangming , come back, give me back, come back Have you seen the lunatic? Have you seen it? Before the sky turned upside down, I was a liar who only pretended to be a lunatic . What happened to you and me? Are you my mother? Xu Gongming lied to me with a rogue. My mother, I dare to scold you here. When will you change your stinky temper for me ? When something happens , you get angry , hit the table and make a bench for me. Will this solve the problem? Anyway, I 'm sitting here. Guangming is a man and your husband, please give him some face You have eaten shrimp , then you should eat more in the future. Change your shoes and wash your hands. Xu Guangming , when the mortgage is settled, are you still planning to remarry? It depends on you, what it is depends on me Tell you I'm not afraid of you, it 's who you have been afraid of, it's only because others are afraid of you, when will you change? You have to be so strong. I have the backbone. I am a countryman. I climbed on the high branch of you. Even my parents do n't dare to come to see the children . It's easy to be familiar with people unless everyone knows it. I ca n't say anything about you. Anyway , Ding Xue will never force you to terminate the cooperation . After entering the clinic, how can they say that they will withdraw? If they withdraw, there are plane trees at home. They are not afraid that they will not be able to attract the golden phoenix. Does Smit know? One of the top 10 medicine washes in the world. What happened? Will the seller tell you ? They really want to talk to We cooperate and mediate the temptation, there are many netizens, you are not the home, I don't know the price and conditions offered by Chai Migui and Schmidt . This is my project. I don't agree to do this. Sign up , although this project is yours The research and development can be funded. It is Solitin. To be precise , this project should be Soli's Changxianghong 29 votes , Wang Bingshun 15 votes , Qi Shulan 47 votes, congratulations to Qi Shulan, wait , Qi Shulan's home is not eligible for this award, Auntie Chang , you really know Just kidding, I'm not kidding . If this award is only given to Lao Qi, I have no opinion at all, but everyone said that this is the 5th good family award , Lao 7, do you tell yourself that your family deserves this award ? Damei, you don't know what's going on around here, Qi Shulan 's daughter and her son-in-law are divorced, don't stop when you get angry, don't stop , this family is gone , and what 5 good family awards are you getting? Oh , I just laughed out my big teeth haha, my parents There is no divorce at all. Oh , what do you know about your child? If you don't believe it, then your grandma, you are talking nonsense, what is this child doing?