Come to us We've waited so long Every day We'll make a new song Come, come To us We love you so We love you so Here we all work On the Mississippi Here we all work Loading up boats Getting no rest Get yourself a brand-new gal A loving baby Coal-black Rose They all can cook asparagus Here we all work On the Mississippi Here we all work Loading up boats Getting no rest What a pretty bevy Ah, there The fairest To Southern beauty How you love to flatter You rogues Oh, goodness gracious You naughty fellows Little women Don't be timorous Seem to think you please us You will find, acting thus When you tease us so Only makes a man more bold! You're a reckless lot We know These are not The days of old See the showboat That's old Captain Andy's Will you go? Let me take you 'Twill be delightful But to rightfully accept Get permission Here comes Captain Andy Ah, I have got such a wonderful show, and the greatest of dramas Stephen Baker, the handsomest leading man, and beautiful Julie La Verne as well! All: Cotton Blossom Captain Andy's Thrills and laughter Everybody's sure to go Cotton Blossom, Captain Andy's Thrills and laughter Concert after Get your girl and go Who cares if my boat Goes upstream Or if the gale bids me go With the river's flow? I drift along Sometimes My heart is free And other times Where's the mate Hello. Oh, how do you do? Oh, no, but... But I'd give anything if I could be. Why? Well, because you can make believe so many wonderful things that never happen in real life. Well, if you like to uh, why can't we make believe we know each other? The game of Is the sweetest game Our dreams Than the world And if the things Don't happen That's just Though the cold You and I We need not mind If we put our thoughts We can banish Imagining We choose We could make believe I love you We could make believe That you love me Others find peace of mind In pretending Couldn't you? Couldn't I? Couldn't we? Make believe Are blending In a phantom kiss Or two or three? Might as well make believe I love you For to tell the truth I Do Magnolia? Yes, Mother. Goodbye. I hope I see you again. Life upon Ain't ever what Stage door Johnnies With gems and roses When you let a feller Which means an extra beer Everybody whispers, Though you're warned Ruining your reputation When you've played around Around the great Wild old men who give you Only live Life upon the wicked stage Though we've You must pardon us There is no doubt Your awful stage Life upon Ain't ever Stage door Johnnies With gems and roses If some gentleman I would cancel Life upon the wicked stage For a girl Life upon the wicked stage Ain't nothing Oh, listen, sister I love my mister man And I can't There ain't no reason For me to love that man It must be something That the angels done plan Fish gotta swim Birds gotta fly I got to love one man Till I die Can't help Tell me he's lazy Tell me he's slow Tell me I'm crazy Maybe I know Can't help When he goes away That's a rainy day But when he comes back That day is fine The sun will shine He can come home As late as can be Home without him Ain't no home to me Can't help Loving that man Of mine Ol' Man River That Ol' Man River He must know something But don't say nothing He just keeps rolling He keeps on Long, old river Forever keeps rolling He don't plant taters He don't plant cotton And them that plants them Is soon forgotten But Ol' Man River He just keeps You and me Body all aching Tote that barge Get a little drunk And we land in jail I gets weary And sick of trying I'm tired of living And scared of dying But Ol' Man River He just keeps - BRAVO! It'll run over a It's all Jerome. sensational! Congratulations, Jerry! It was great, Jerry. Great. That was a swell show, Oh, thank you, Joe. Where to? Uh, what was that, Joe? That big shindig It's down at the Waldorf, Yes. But first I'd like to stop off at the house of an old friend... Yes, sir. ...uh, just for a moment, Joe. Turn right at the next crossing. It's not very far. I'm looking for an It was the home of Tonight, during the show, I couldn't seem to get him off my mind. Yes, sir, And I'd like to be alone before we go down to the Waldorf Oh, I get you. Like a minute of silence. Yes, Joe. Uh, here. Here at the corner? Uh, in front of that radio shop. Oh, there it is. You... you mean - sandwiched in there? Well, of course, it didn't in the window then, but other than that, This street has changed. Changed quite a bit since I first walked Joe. Uh, do you notice this radio shop? Well, that was a bicycle shop I remember the day very well. It was spring. And I might have coming down that street. I had a song under my arm, my hopes were high, I was ambitious, and I was eager, but I needed a little help. I'd been told that was a man by the name of Hesler. James Hesler. Come in, come in. You're an hour late already. You can start on the upstairs Mrs. Muller, daddy wants I'll be there in a second, And see that you get He's not the moth killer. I'm a... songwriter. A songwriter. You entered under false pretenses. Well, it won't do you Mr. Hesler isn't seeing He's going in for better things. Maybe he should have some roast beef. He's very hungry-looking. Don't mention roast beef Look how skinny his neck is. Oh, so it is. So it is. You feel like you're going to Hey, missus! Let's eat! Well, you can come in for a while. I can't have people Not even songwriters. Come in. Daddy, he's starving to death. Hello, Uh, Mr. Max... I know. I know. Mr. Max Dreyfus You've written a little tune. He thinks it has possibilities I'm to help you arrange it. Look how skinny his neck is, Daddy. Well, he said that, uh... He told you that I was the greatest arranger in America, and I should give you a few lessons. Well, my friend, he's right. There's only one catch: I've given up arranging. I'm through dressing up silly little tunes for girl shows and beer halls. I'm gonna write Oh, here, missus, uh... Um, uh, s-set it down here. The trouble with all you ever think Here, sit down. Oh, uh, no thank you. Go ahead. No, you never think anything worthwhile, Uh, no, uh... No, don't... Don't sit down there, please. That's Mrs. Hesler's place, We always keep it set for her. Oh, I'm sorry. No, all you fellas want to do is write sugary little tunes, and make a lot of money. Did you ever hear Or Mozart's &quot;Jupiter&quot;? Didn't they do something to you? Great heavens. Doesn't genius Daddy's a genius. Yes, daddy's a genius. No, my friend. In three weeks, where I can work and have No mushy little for public consumption. I'm gonna write a symphony. Daddy's gonna write Here, go ahead. Maybe it'll give you some gumption. Well, I'm terribly sorry, I had a big lunch with It was roast beef too. Uh, well, I'd... Oh, what's the matter? Just because you're not hungry, Have some brandy with me. Help me celebrate Uh, missus. Get a couple of liqueur glasses, will you? Sally, will you show The gentleman into the parlor? I'm going upstairs and see if I can't find Have you a song in there? Mm-hm. I'm taking piano lessons. Daddy wants me to be Why don't you write an opera? Well, Sally, I'm afraid I only write Uh, you know, the ones your father doesn't like. Let me see if I can play your song. Do you mind? No, I wish you would. Here. &quot;Ka-la... &quot;&quot;Ka-la... &quot;Ka...&quot; What's the name of the song? &quot;Kalua.&quot; That's a funny name. Sounds like candy. Well, it's the name of in Hawaii, Sally. Uh, no, that's B. Here, let me show you. Now, here's the melody. It should be played with clarinets. No, no, no. Now, wait a minute. No, that's not right. You've got to use clarinets Oh, I was, uh, thinking Brass? And spoil your finish? You've always got to save Oh. Well, Think? I know. Sit down. You've got to start the melody Here, I'll show you. Start that vamp again, Sally. It's perfect for clarinet, see? Now, then the strings enter. Don't you hear how wonderful that is? Now, then, add trombones. That's great. Sally? No, no, no, no. We ought to add flutes there. Light and easy. Now, then, add your brass. Your strings too. There, you see? That's a good song too. That's very good. Th-th-that's yours? Yes. That's ver... That's all right. What's your name, again? Kern. Well, I'm glad to meet you, Kern. Make yourself at home. And I did. My life became a tempos and modulations. We worked hour after hour, It was the beginning of a friendship. It was the beginning of a lot of things. And now, not only I had a best girl: Sally. And what a girl. Oh, those were and I hated to think of them ending, but at last, the time came when Oh. Here, Jim. Oh, it's those... It's those symphonies of yours. They're as heavy Well, at least they're not tinny, like some tunes I've heard. Oh, Sally, honey. All right, here we go. Dum da da dum Bum Got it. Ah, you carry a lot of weight, Sally. It was easy. Come along, Sally. At least we're not Goodbye, Goodbye, missus. Goodbye, Sally. What does that mean? Happy journey. Bye, Uncle Jerry. Be a good boy. Now, this will be the end of it, boys. Don't forget to pack my song, Daddy. No, no. She means Kalua. Well, that is her song, Jim. You know, if it hadn't I wouldn't be here now. Well, she's very fond of you, Jerry. I'm going to miss her. I'm gonna miss all of you. Well... we may not It all depends on... You won't mind living Oh, no. No. Uh, Jim... in case I don't get a I just wanted to tell you that, uh... Oh, forget it. I... now that I'm through with it. Glad to have been some help. No. It's It's been your kindness Look, Jerry... I just want you to Some real music. That's all the thanks I want. Don't... Don't waste your time fussing with those Think big. I will, Jim. I'll try to be as big as I can. Yeah. Good. That's fine. Well, we better be on our way. Oh, good heavens. You know, I'm so tickled Remembered? That's your song, Jerry. She couldn't forget. I stood there watching that boat and I was lonelier than I walked through from office to office, theater to theater, always getting the same The big hits were all and the, uh... ahem local talent just Broadway was From 23rd Street they were all playing And the leader was He's with Keller. Cecil Keller, the English composer. Mr. Frohman's in American songs at the moment. He's leaving for Good day. Uh, how do you do? My name is Kern. Oh, yes. I see you have the deeds with you. Mr. Frohman's Deeds? You're the man from aren't you? Uh, these are some of my songs. Your name isn't Kernan? No, Kern. I'm sorry. Mr. Frohman hasn't I'm afraid I must say good day. Well, now, maybe if he'd I have one that could Good day, sir. Goodbye, Mr. Frohman. Goodbye, I'll see you in London soon. I'll call you when I get there. Thank you. I'll be waiting for your call. I made up my mind that I was going with an English accent. So I sailed for London. I wish I could say with flags flying and my courage high, but the sea and I, and the boat, uh, didn't get along too well together. I was mighty glad to see land again. Uh, excuse me. Uh, could you tell me Kesler? We have a Westly, No, Hesler. Uncle Jerry! Sally. Oh, honey, it's so good to see you. We didn't know you were coming. Well, I didn't know I was myself. Daddy will be so glad to see you. Well, we live right over there. All right. Oh, Sally, you're getting I have a new music teacher. Have you? Well, the tables are turned. American songwriter invades England. That's pretty good, Jerry. Oh, it's daring. You're thinking big, anyway. It's a chance I'm taking, Say, you've gotten Hm? Oh. I haven't been roast beef lately, I guess. Jerry, I... I look at you sitting there, and it's just hard for me to believe you haven't been here all the time. Thanks, Jim. It's, uh, sort of like How is the, uh, symphony Oh, well, uh, yes. I'm... I'm still in the Uh, of course, I always believe It's, uh... It's kind of One day, they start to grow. And then before you know it, lo and behold, your symphony's all written. Uh-huh. Not as difficult as writing Well, no, it's... It's the quiet here that does it, Jerry. The peace in this place is just so... ...thick that you There's a... There's a rustic, pastoral... Wait a minute. Oh, the doorbell. Will you get We've got to do something about... Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, there's a... There's a I'm so sorry that I am late, Who? I can't quite... My little girl, she is waiting for piano lessons, huh? Oh, Mr. Edwardes! Come, Sally. It's time Hello, George. I don't want a lesson. Tomorrow? Be glad to. For dinner. Good. All right. George Edwardes. The producer? Yes. He wants me to come up of a new show. I don't want to take any piano lesson. Uncle Jerry's here. You've got to talk to your daughter. I can't do a thing with This is Uncle Jerry's first day here, and I shouldn't be made to take lessons, should I? Should I, Uncle Jerry? Well, I-I think you should have one day off, maybe, hmm? That's the end of her. There was some hope for her until her Uncle Jerry arrived. Now she's spoiled for good and all. Come. We'll get ourselves You know, Sally, I'm inclined to agree with you. I think Uncle Jerry's arrival does call for a celebration. Now, what'll it be? Oh, the fair, Daddy. Please, the fair! All right. How do you do, milady? How do you do? Come and try your weight... Taffy! Taffy! Oh, it could be wonderful. Could be wonderful. Oh, no. No, Jerry. I don't want Sally to not till she's older. The whole stage full of swings, and a boy and girl in each swing, and all of them singing. Oh. Oh, you... You mean for a production number? Yeah. Yeah. That's not They could swing from the stage and back again. Make a good production number. What, uh...? What song &quot;Spoon With Me&quot; would be perfect. &quot;Spoon With me.&quot; That... Suppose I take that up For the Gaiety? Sure. I'm gonna have dinner Aw, Jim. I don't know why I am so very shy I always was demure I never knew What silly lovers do No flirting I'd endure In all my life, I never winked my eye But now at last So how'd you like to try? How'd you like I'd like to How'd you like Well, rather Sit beneath an oak tree Call me little How'd you like Indeed, I would Dangle me Oh, if I could How'd you like to be How'd you like What a daisy How'd you like To spoon with me? It would be spiffy How'd you like In half a jiffy Sit beneath an oak tree Call me little How'd you like To hug and squeeze? Now that you've Dangle you My answer How'd you like How'd you How'd you like to, How'd you like to How'd you like How'd you like Rather Pardon me for intruding, but you've been pointed out of that delightful number My name is Frohman. Mr. Kern, I want to Frohman. It... It isn't my number. There's Mr. Kern, sir. That gentleman there? Why, he can't be the composer. It's him, sir, sipping sherry. And a very nice gentleman he is, too, sir, for a musician. Mr. Frohman, I have which I know you'd like. It's a beautiful number with parasols. With all sorts of parasols. Thank you. Mr. Kern? Oh, Mr. Frohman, I'm very glad to know you. Mr. Kern, I think your swing number is delightful. It has such beautiful English charm to it. Really delightful. By Jove, Mr. Frohman, That's rather nice of you. It's a pleasure You know, you fellas over here have a style all your own, as English as the scent Would you join me in a glass of sherry? Righto. Miss... I believe I'd give One song at the Gaiety, I think you can afford to take a rest. Oh, if I could finish it, I know I could interest Frohman in it. You ought to know by now that Charles Frohman is only interested in English music and English composers. If I only had a piano, I know I could work this out right now. Flat. Well, it looks like you do That town we passed wasn't No, not very. Well, let me take your bike, and I'll go back and see No. I think I'd better go. I can talk with the, uh, Well, let me do it. That's just what I was afraid of. No. You wait here a little tune till I come back. Uh, make sure you I'll find it! I say, is anyone there? Oh. How do you do? Did Mr. Timkins send you? Well, um, I was and I got a flat tire, and, uh... Oh, then you don't No. No, your piano through the window, so I thought I'd come in and try out a little tune. I see. For a minute, I thought you were No. Well, I'd better go Um, what do you do here? Gardening? Oh. Well, whether anybody's told you, but for a working girl, you're very pretty. Thank you. You're Yes. Yes, I'm Uh, as a matter of fact, that song I was playing Do you like it? Oh, uh, you wrote it yourself? Sure. Oh, I write Uh, maybe, um... Maybe you've heard this one. Why, that's from the Gaieties. Everybody's singing it. Uh-huh. Now, this is the one That I'm gonna try to Of course. Don't you believe I Tell me, when you break into people's houses Oh. All right, Uh, if I place this with the Gaiety, I'll send you tickets, and you can come and see for yourself. Will you? I'll tell you when I get the tickets. Oh, I... I beg your pardon, miss. But, uh, your mother She's in the upstairs sitting room. Thank you, Katy. Ahem. Well, I'm, uh... terribly sorry. But I still wrote those songs. And I'll still be waiting for the tickets. Will you? I-I... I won't forget! And you were the lad who wasn't gonna fall for a long, long time. Well, this girl is different. Sure. I know. Oh, now, don't joke Don't you believe me? Yes, of course I believe you. Now, she really is different. I know, I know. Her hair is like spun gold Well, I don't know about her hair. She had a kerchief on. Her eyes were... Were like I see. Even with her working clothes on, she's the prettiest I'm sure of it. Seriously, Jim, Yes. Yes, sure. It's spring, isn't it? Tomorrow morning, a great big dose of Good night. How beautiful you are They didn't believe me They didn't believe me Your lips, your eyes Your cheeks, your hair Are in a class You're the loveliest girl That one could see And when I tell them And I certainly am Going to tell them That I'm the man whose wife One day you'll be They'll never believe me They'll never believe me That from You've chosen me Jerry, isn't it lovely? Oh, well, I hadn't noticed. Uh, when I look at you, I can't seem to see anything else. Oh, writing songs again. Perhaps we'd better All right. You can move in Isn't it a beautiful day? Beautiful. Now, let's see. You've seen Westminster Abbey And you've seen Buckingham Palace and Hampton Court. Maybe there's something Eva, uh, let's, uh, drop the history course for a while. Do you mind? Not that but, uh, well, there are a few things I'd like to know about you too. Well, all right. What would Oh, just the ordinary things. Things you like, Where you went to school, And... oh, what you want Mmm, that's a tall order. Uh, the things you like. Oh, I... I guess I like I like books, and, uh... And picnics. And dancing. And music. What about musicians? Oh, certainly musicians. And what do you want out of life? Oh, I guess, again, happiness. Have you ever given any thought to, uh, getting married? Why, of course. Are you set on any Mmm, I have been at different times. When I was 16, the star cricket player at Rugby. And now? Now? Oh, uh, now except that he must And he must be kind. And he must be intelligent, And, of course, he... Well, I, uh... I know somebody with at least one of those characteristics. Someday, I'll tell you all about it. Oh, good afternoon, And how have you been this afternoon? Well, I'll tell you how I've been. Oh, that's okay. You feel wonderful. How could you be otherwise Uh, tell me, my friend, how is your knowledge English history? Did you know that the largest city in the world? Yes, I know that. Did you know that there are 14 road bridges Now, there's You don't say? Sounds dull, huh? Well, it's far from dull, my friend, when your history as all the sirens of history put together. Did you know that all belong to the King of England? No. Fancy that. And the male swan Well, what does that get you? And did you know that when you're walking right Oh, my dear friend, to learn about England. Have you ever heard of Frohman. Frohman. Well, now, The face escapes me. How can you talk about Frohman when I'm talking about love? Oh, so that's been the theme of this little dissertation. Yes. Well, I'm glad you informed me. Oh, that's all right. Because the next time I'll tell him that you're Yes, you tell them Did you say, &quot;The next time That's what I said. They've been calling you all day. But why should I bore you with such trivial details? Well, what did they want? No, no, dear friend. Why think of the future Oh, come on now. Mmm, nothing, nothing. Frohman just wants you to write four songs for his new show. If, of course, you can, Well, why didn't you tell me about it? Why didn't I tell you about it? Well, come on. There's no time. We've got On the what? On the ship. We're sailing with We have to start rehearsal Sailing. Aw, Jim, I... I, uh... Yeah? Oh, nothing. Look, Jerry... this is the chance Well, you certainly I thought you'd be up in the clouds. I feel like I've just been Jerry... aren't you Oh, uh... no, no, Jim. Now, look. You've got It isn't the end of the world. It's the beginning. Here you are on your way back home with a Charles Frohman Why, you ought to feel wonderful. Huh. I know it. That's what You'll go back to England. If I just could have Jerry, it was all we could do You couldn't help that. You talked to her on the phone. On the phone? &quot;Hello. It was nice seeing you. Oh, Jim, there were so many things that I wanted to say to her. Now, look, Jerry, you've got to Things are just starting for you. Yeah. You can say that and you know what happens? Nothing. Jim, you know, for the first Here I am on a ship and I might as well all by myself. Did you ever feel this way? Yes, once. What did you do about it? I married the girl. Oh, hello, Mr. Frohman. Hello there. I've been You weren't down to breakfast. Uh, no. The first day out is Well, a good Englishman Come and have lunch with me. Uh, Mr. Frohman, there's I'm not an Englishman. Mr. Kern, there's I never thought that you were. At least not after the first 15 minutes. Matter of fact, I'm very proud to be able to present a new American composer to Broadway. Thank you, I have a lot of faith in you, Jerry. Just received a wireless She's accepted the part Wonderful. Now I've got to have If it's a love song... And when I told them How wonderful you are They didn't believe me They didn't believe me Your lips, your eyes, Are in a class You're the handsomest boy That one could see And when I tell them And I'm certainly That you're the boy Whose wife They'll never believe me They'll never believe me That from You've chosen me Here. I've got the &quot;Clouds&quot; number worked out pretty well now, I think. I never realized that was such a job before. Well, one good all-night session like this does wonders. We could use another week. Hmm. three weeks late already. I hope he likes it, Jim. Frohman? If he hasn't gone out another show while Good morning. Sally, what are you doing up? I'm gonna have my breakfast. Break... It isn't morning already? No, it can't be. Sally, you'll be late for school. I'm coming! Say, Jim, don't you think I'd better call Frohman's secretary and get an appointment? You better call him at home. Good morning. Bryant 2446, please. Uh, do you think it's for him to hear? Oh, yeah, sure. It's in good shape for a first draft. Hello. Uh, this is Kern. Uh, Mr. Frohman to call today about an appoint... He-he's leaving for England? Well, but he promised to my show, Oh, Boy, Sails today? Oh. All right. Well, that's it. He's going over to buy himself another English show. Well, he can't. No? No, he can't. We've worked And I had all my plans made too. After he bought it, I was gonna jump the I'd forgotten about that young lady. Wait a minute. I've got an idea. My passport is still good. Why don't I take the same boat Wonderful! and he can't get away from you. That's right. Then I can Wonderful! Then I can go and see Eva. Sure, sure. Well, yes. Probably That's an idea. Well, I-I'll go and phone Right. I'll go pack. Driver, you think you If we get a break in traffic, and the old engine holds out. Uncle Jerry! Oh, Uncle Jerry! Jerry, come on, now! We've only got a few minutes. Jerry, do you want to miss that boat? Come on, here! Charles Frohman. It's like watching an era The theater's going to miss him. Yeah. You were very lucky Seen Max around? Victor. No. I think he went What a terrible tragedy. Yes, yes. Jerry and I were just talking... Oh, uh, Jerry, you know Victor Herbert, don't you? This is Jerry Kern, Victor. How do you do, Jerry? It's a great honor Charlie Frohman He had great hopes for you. Well, he was very kind. He liked you, he respected you. And it's easy to see why. You've got a song to sing. Thank you, Look down at that city, Jerry. It's made up of millions of people. And music has played a part Lullabies... love songs... hymns... anthems. It must be pretty to realize that people and never will know and all of them asking for more of the Victor Herbert music. It makes me feel grateful, One of these days, you'll find out yourself how it feels. What is it my publishers call me? &quot;The Dean of Hm. Well, I think you're One thing I must admit, you've Oh, thank you. Keep writing, boy. Don't let anything stop you. Good night. Good night, Good night, Victor. Good night, Jim. Good evening, Good evening. It's a deal, gentlemen. Comstock and Elliot Max just sent me What's the matter? Yeah, Ed, we're happy. Turn out those lights again, Well, there it is in lights. How does it feel? Well, it feels pretty good, of some of these How do you feel? Well, I've got a little I suppose you think we're on 39th and Broadway. No. What do you This isn't 39th and Broadway. This is the top of the world. Pretty nice world, isn't it? Yeah, it's great. It's wonderful what a difference seeing your name in lights Come on. We'd better go in, The rain comes A-pitter-patter And I'd like Skies are weeping Trouble heaping It is vain And to wait Helter skelter Till the clouds roll by When the Pitter-patter Pitter-patter And I'd like Pitter-patter Stars are weeping Trouble heaping on our head It is vain And to wait Helter skelter Till the clouds roll by Till the clouds roll by Well, this is it, Jerry. Listen to that applause. Don't wake me up. Don't anybody wake me up. Figured out how you're gonna Well, for one thing, I think I'll buy an interest in Harms. For another... You think, uh... You think you might, uh, Well... Well, good luck. I don't see how she Well, that's what I'm worried about. I'm afraid she is gonna say no, Jim. You know, I can't get She's... Yeah, I know. I've been through this before. She's everything you've ever She's everything I've Oh, Jerry, let's stop here, All right. Jerry. You know, Well, my letters weren't so I tore them up. As a matter of fact, you didn't write very often yourself. A lady doesn't correspond unless it's a reason Oh, well, now, doesn't that No. It... it sounds Oh. A lady doesn't fight. Well, what does a lady do? Oh, you're impossible. Well, you're right. I'd have nothing to do with me. In fact, if I were you, when I ask you to marry me, I'd say no, just on the grounds that a lady never says yes. Now, see here! Are you Might, with a little encouragement. A lady doesn't... In my country, she has to be encouraging. In my country... What in your country? Well, there are proper ways to go about such things Well, then let me put it this way. From the very first moment I saw you, when you walked in from the garden... I knew that out of all I'd finally found the right one. The only one. I wanted to tell you then. I wanted to say, &quot;Hello, funny face. &quot;I don't know your name &quot;but I've loved you all my life. &quot;You were my first schoolteacher, &quot;my first date, &quot;the first girl I ever kissed, and everything You see, You thought all that? That's right. I stood there thinking that, wondering what What would you have done? What would you do now? Will you marry me, Eva? Thank you so much. Hello, Mrs. Kern. Hello, my darling. They're here, Daddy! They're coming up the steps! Welcome home. Jim! Why, you old fox! You really did it this time. Nothing, my boy. Just a little gesture. Jim, uh... This is Eva. Hello, Eva. Hello. Well, you've married the nicest guy in this world... but the craziest. Oh, now, wait a minute. Uh, I was keeping that from her. Isn't she sensational, Jim? Jerry. and let him look at you. Oh, Jerry! Look at that hair and those eyes. Have you ever seen in your life before? Only once. No, I... I hope that both of you have all the happiness in this world. Oh, thank you. I think we have already. Forgetting me and the music! Oh, Sally, yes. I-I'm sorry, Sally. On behalf of my father, Jim Hesler, and myself... On behalf of my father, I wish to congratulate you. I wish to congratulate you on the start of your voyage into the great sea of life. Oh, Sally. Well, on behalf of my wife and myself, I thank you very much. I'll take it. Hello, Mr. Kern. Sally, it's so wonderful to see you. My, you have grown up, haven't you? Sally, this is your Aunt Eva. On behalf of my father... Thank you, Sally. We're going to be real good Yes, I expect we are. Well, uh, what do you say? Let's all go in, have something Aw, Jim, it's so good to be home again. Yes, it was good to be home. I felt I had everything in the world: happiness, success, and the wife I had dreamed about. I wanted to put it all into music. Eva's smile. And what it meant to be with her. And at last, it seemed to me First, there was Leave It To Jane. &quot;LEAVE IT TO JANE&quot; Leave it to Jane Jane, Jane I don't know why You should make me She is the girl I always try to do No problem Gives her a strain She'll tackle gaily If something And I can see that there is Comfort Leave it to me If you have Kindly refrain And just hand over Well, Jane, why don't you Yeah. Come on, Jane. Tell us. Oh, well, it's really very simple. I just study up on You mean like Lucrezia Borgia? Well, no, not exactly. In days of old A famous queen Her clothes were few Her figure slim On every man She pulled And everyone That her work was swift I'd be like If I could have my way Each man she met And she'd dozens I wish that Beside the pyramid For a girl today Don't get the stuff She danced new dances The sort Each time she did them Scores of men They'd stand there And watch her It simply used to When she went like this At dancing, Cleopatterer She gave those poor Something else to watch Marc Antony admitted Was the wibbly, wobbly That Cleopatterer did Leave it to Jane Jane, Jane She is the girl No problem you can wish on her She'll tackle gaily If something Comfort you soon will find If you have started worrying Don't you bother Just leave it Jane, Jane Turn the whole thing Over to Jane Once again, Broadway belonged to the Americans. To George M. Cohan, Vincent Youmans, Buddy De Sylva. I was working in And in one of my own shows, to have the reigning queen of the era, the wistful, lovely, unforgettable Marilyn Miller. Marilyn was really great in there. I got a couple Goodbye. Da-da-da All right, Larry. Hazel, my dress. Oh, we're gonna have to You look beautiful, honey. Really? I was never Did you see me trip? More flowers Oh, how wonderful. Huh. It says, &quot;The first act I wish he'd said the second act. Don't worry about the second act. The second was better Thank you. Hazel, is everything ready Everything's ready All right. There. Thank you. Hazel, have you got everything? Yes. Everything's All right. Good luck, Miss Miller. Thank you. Good luck. You're doing fine, Miss Miller. Back in one. Keep it up, Marilyn. Keep your fingers crossed, Jeremy. You bet. Oh, here you are, Miss Miller. Everything is ready. All right. Here you are, Miss Miller. I got it nice and warm for you. What'll I do with this? Ah. Put it You got everything now? Are you ready? As I wash my dishes Till I see the brightness I am sure this point of view So I'll keep repeating In my mind Look for The silver lining Whene'er a cloud Appears in the blue Remember somewhere The sun is shining And so The right thing to do Is make it shine for you A heart full Of joy and gladness Will always banish Sadness and strife So always look For the silver lining And try to find The sunny side of life La-da, da-da La-da, da-da, dee Da-da, da-dee Da-dee, da-da, da-da Da-dee, da-da, da-da So always Look for The silver lining And try to find The sunny side Of life I never thought I'd ever keep a scrapbook. But it was nice to know that people were singing Night Boat, Good Morning, Dearie, The Ziegfeld Follies. Curtains went up and and I think I got to look Eva grew lovelier with Our life was rich and full And Jim and I? Well... we grew a little more settled, perhaps. He was still working on his symphony... or so he said. But on the whole, the years Oh, but they certainly She was quite a young lady now. She'd been away at school. Well, Sally. Hello. Darling. Well, Sally, I thought you were at school. Well, I... I was. Oh. What happened I just can't stand that school anymore, Uncle Jerry. I've left, and... What does your Well, h-he hasn't He... He doesn't exactly know. You see, I just left there this morning, and I came right out here to talk to you. Oh, Uncle Jerry, I had to leave. I hated it so much, I couldn't eat or sleep or anything. This is the third school you've Yes. Well, now, it seems to me to make a go of one of them. Oh. I just don't seem The kids all seem so... All they're interested in are parties and clothes. They seem to think that's all there is to life. Oh, Uncle Jerry, I... I wish you'd talk to Dad for me. He'll... He'll listen to you. Well, Sally, you know Then I ought to be home, where I can take care of him. You ought to be at school You want to make something Oh, I've had an education, and... And now I want to get down Oh, Uncle Jerry. you'd help me get a start in the theater. Uh-uh-uh. I said I'd help you Your father wants you to complete your schooling first, Sally, Oh, Uncle Jerry, Dad's to be young and feel like this, but you haven't. You haven't forgotten what it's like to stand on Broadway and look up at the lights and think... &quot;Someday I'll see You remember that feeling, Yes, Sally. Well... Well, then, that's more important than school or... Or anything else in the world, isn't it? Isn't it, Uncle Jerry? It's the third time, Jerry. Yes, I know. Maybe we shouldn't have After all, if she hates it so much... Oh, Jerry, you can't keep on running away from It's time Sally found that out. Well... you can't live for them either, Jim. It isn't fair. Sally's grown up now, allowed to do what she wants to do. I want her to finish her education. Didn't get a chance to finish mine. I-I always said that any kid of mine was going to... To get Well, what's right for one person isn't always right for another, Jim. You know that. Jerry, the trouble with that girl is she's just plain stage-struck. She comes by that Remember how we used and knock on doors? Nobody could stop us. Goodness only knows Remember how thrilled we were when we finally So, what right have you or I to interfere with Sally? Yeah. Well, what... I'd give her a part in Sunny. That's all cast. The part of Gwen Gwen? Well, that's, uh... Gwen is going to have a song. The doctor's here, Oh. Oh, fine, miss... Uh, doctor, I'll be with you Good evening, Hello, doctor. You know, when you... you... start Well, I'll, uh... Jerry, I hope that works out all right. Who Stole my heart away? Who Makes me dream Dreams I know Seems as though Who... Hello, How are you? Very well, Miss Miller. Fine. Jerry. This is a charming number. I was just telling Jerry and what a fine Oh, thanks. Um... Jerry, I've just been talking to Mr. Dillingham, and he thinks that &quot;Who&quot; should be a big production number instead of a solo, and that, of course, Dreams I know Can never Well, then, of course, It, uh, puts me in rather a tough position, though, Oscar. After all... I did write it for Sally. I know you did, Jerry, but... we'll give Sally something else. Oh, she's gonna be It's a wonderful song, I hate to take it away from her. Well, it's for the good I think you're right, Oscar. Have you thought, though, how you're gonna tell Sally? It's not gonna be easy. Oh, I thought you Oh. I was afraid Well, after all, it shouldn't be too difficult. Well, it would be a lot easier if I didn't know her so well. W... Would you I'm sure she'll understand. Would you do that, Marilyn? Certainly. in my dressing Thank you, darling. But Uncle Jerry I know. how disappointed you must be too. But, Sally, disappointments and you've got to Well, the very same in my first show. I had to give up I think I felt pretty much as you're feeling right now. Then I think it's for you to pull on someone else! Sally, listen to me a minute. This is your first show. You're just starting. Now there are gonna and a good many shows for you. It may be difficult but one day, you'll realize you've got to give and take, whether you like it or not. I'll never take a song Especially if it's Sally, please don't put this on a personal basis. I don't want to take Then why are you doing it? Mr. Dillingham thinks And what's best for the show is more important than or any personal feelings involved. Don't you see that, Sally? Yes, I see it all right! You're trying to take and you aren't going Uncle Jerry wrote that song for me, and I'm going to sing it. I don't care whether You're not gonna Sally. She can't have my song, Don't let her talk you into it. I don't care what happens! I'm sorry, Jerry. What is it, Sally? Am I still in the show, Uncle Jerry? If you want to be. You won't have a song though. They took my song away from me. The song you wrote for me. Sally, there's a little thing called &quot;for the good Apparently, the show didn't seem very important to you this afternoon. Not important? You didn't care what just so long as you got your way. The theater doesn't Nothing works that way. I learned something today. I suddenly realized that you're not ready Not ready? No. All you is a small talent, in return for which Sally... I've known you and loved you ever since you were a little girl. I couldn't love you any more if you were my own child. But I must say this to you: You're not gonna get anywhere in this life by using people. And until you realize that, you're not gonna have Sally, I... I'm ashamed of you. Here you come A-running back Little playmate In a day gone by Ragged dresses Flying o'er the hill Heaven bless us You've no less a share You funny That describes her She is full of fun He named the lady She is bright and sunny Never comb Leave the breezes Let your stocking For shocking the town Is all that you do Smiling all the while Where'd you get Little sunny girl Sunny Sunny We're for you Who Stole my heart away? Who Makes me dream Dreams I know Seems as though Who Means my happiness? Who Would I answer yes To? Well, you ought No one but you Who's the The one you care for Who can it be? Who can it be? Who can it be? Who can it be? You'll never guess Who has stolen Who makes me Dream all day? Dreaming dreams I Seems as though Oh, who Means my happiness? Who Would I answer yes to? Well, you ought Who? No one but you Who's your honey, Sunny? Who Hello. Yes, Mrs. Muller. Have you sent for the doctor? Is Sally there? Oh... Well, you be sure and I'll be right over. The doctor get here? He's upstairs It's his heart. I wouldn't stay very long. Mr. Hesler could use Well, good evening, Jim. Hello, Jerry. We missed you at the theater tonight. How are you? Sally's gone, Jerry. Yes, I know. I... She didn't come down for dinner, so... I went up to her room. &quot;Dear Daddy, I'm going out on my own. &quot;Don't worry about me. &quot;Someday, you'll be proud of me. &quot;I'll always love you. P.S. Tell Uncle Jerry It's all my fault, Jim. I shouldn't have suggested No, no, no, Jerry. It's time both of us faced that. Yes, I know. Well, she's got spunk, all right. Jerry, she's young. She's... She's way too young Well, now, look, Jim, I'll bring her back. I wish you'd do that. I promise you I'll try my utmost. Yeah, just as soon Good night, Jim. Uh, why don't you and get some rest? Yeah. Yeah. I left no stone Personal ads, private detectives... but the answer was No one had seen her. It was a futile hunt. I tried to keep Jim's I think he knew. And then... one night... Please don't mention I think, you'd better go up right away. He's been asking for you. Jim. I, uh... I was just driving by. I thought I'd drop Yeah, I know. You forget I've Feeling better, aren't you? Yeah. Yeah, I'm fine. Oh, that's good. All you Kind of quiet around here now, isn't it? Yes. Yes, it is. things will be popping again just as soon as Sally comes back. Have you heard from her, Jerry? No. No, not directly. But I've got a couple I've got a hunch that Then I'm going to see You're gonna finish that symphony. I've kept you from Oh, I forgot about that symphony. Forgot about it years ago. Well, what about your notes? I never made any notes. I was just... posing, as usual. You know, I used to... I used to go around hollering about being a genius. You are a genius, Jim. And you, with your... You were writing the real music. The... The folk music of America. Thanks, Jerry, for letting me kind No, wait a minute. Let's get something straight, Jim. I didn't let you hang around. Why, if it hadn't been for you and your faith in me, I would have quit You know that. And... if we're gonna start I just want you to know that I don't know You're a great man, Jerry. It's been a privilege... getting in on that music. And it's been a lot of fun too... Now, let's not talk that way, Jim. A couple of weeks, screaming for more and more brass. Ah, Jerry. This looks like Jerry, i-if, uh... I... I want you to look Jim, you're gonna be all right. So is Sally. In a couple of weeks, why, Better? Is he better? Perhaps if I made some coffee. Don't bother. Oh, no. No, it can't be. Mr. Kern had hardly I was... completely lost. Completely... helpless. Jim was gone and... I had failed him... Was still failing him. I'd lost a world with Jim's passing, and everywhere I walked, reliving lost hours, I couldn't even think I began to feel that I... might never write again. How long has this been going on? For weeks, Oscar. Ever since Jim died. He's a score to write, and he hasn't done one song. That certainly doesn't He seems to have Have you had any word of Sally? No, but... he has every friend he ever had in show Well, don't worry about it. She'll turn up. It's Jerry I'm You know, Oscar, I believe he's He can't write music anymore. It's heartbreaking to watch him. Well, I, uh... I have a book here I'd I've been commissioned to adapt it and write the lyrics. And I think Jerry's the I don't think he'll do it, Oscar. Well, that's hard to believe. There's never been a time, when you couldn't There's never been a time But I'll... But you can try. Hello. How's it going, dear? Oh, fine, I was just tinkering but it's going to be all right. Of course it is. My, it is raining, isn't it? Jerry, Oscar Hammerstein's here. Oscar? Oh, darling, Oscar, come in. Hello, Jerry. My goodness, it's good to see you. Won't you sit down? Sit down. Well, what's, uh... What's new? I'll tell you what I came across a novel that I think's going Now, if you'll do the music, I'd like to do the book. Oscar, I, uh... I'd love to. I really would. I have so many that I don't think it... It wouldn't be fair to you or anyone concerned. Suppose I leave and you glance through it Oh, it's no use, Oscar. Well, I'll leave it anyhow. See you next week. Won't you stay for dinner? I'd certainly like to, Bye, Eva. I'll see you to the door, Oscar. Goodbye. I'll get it. Hello. This is Oh. Just a moment, Jerry, it's Arthur Kelly. Hello, Arthur. Yes. Oh, that's wonderful. Oh. In Memphis? Uh, what was the Club Elite. Yes. Well, Thank you very much, Arthur. Sally is singing at the Club Elite in Memphis all this week. Oh, that's wonderful. Shall I pack a bag for you? Yes, darling, you do that. And I'll call and One more dance In the arms of love With sad eyes of autumn Asking a pretty thing Just one more favor One more glance From that shy white dove One more night One more flight One more thrill One more dance With me Will you dance with me? Oh, no, thank you. Go ahead and dance Dance with her, Charlie. Will you dance with me? I sure will, baby. Watch this. Ha, ha! Sit down. Think of what By constantly To dance with me You'd be the idol And yet And shake Dramatically While I wait here So ecstatically You just look Not this season There's a reason I won't dance Don't ask me I won't dance I won't dance My heart won't let Do things You know what? So what? But, oh, what You do to me I'm like an ocean wave I feel so absolutely When you dance You're charming, Especially when you But this feeling For heaven rest us I'm not asbestos And that's why Why should I? I won't dance I won't dance I know that music So if I hold you I won't dance Come in. Sally. Uncle Jerry! Oh, Uncle Jerry, What are you doing here? Well, I, uh... I was Oh, did you see what Yes. I bet you'd like to shoot me. Not at all. As a matter I wish that some of the people who think my music Oh. I... I'm so excited, You look wonderful, Uncle Jerry. More handsome than ever. How is Aunt Eva? Oh, she's fine. Oh, I... I miss her too. I miss you both. I-is she with you? You haven't told me yet No, uh, your Aunt And I'm here because I could find you here. I've been looking for you Oh, Uncle Jerry, I'm all right. But I promised your father Sally, I want you to I can't, I'd like to, but I can't. When I... When I heard about my father, I... I never realized he was so ill, You know I never I know that, Sally. When I... it was as though... someone had forced me for the first time. I loved him very much, and I knew I had I was spoiled and selfish and... I knew that I... I could never have any respect unless I... did what I said I So you see, I can't I'm making my I'm pretty good at it too. Well, Sally, I... I just don't like the idea of your being here and all alone. Oh, this is just a stepping stone from where I've been to... where I hope I'm going. I'm making $50 a week now because management If I'm worth more, I'll get more. And if not... I'll have to find it out for myself. And Uncle Jerry... I'm not using anyone. Five minutes, Miss Hesler. Thank you, Jimmy. You understand, Well, Sally... I'd give anything in the world But I must say quite so proud of as I am of you at this moment. Good luck, darling. Gradually, I felt the old heartache misting away, and I was at peace. The promise I had made Jim Sally was going to be all right. I, uh, walked along with the river wind in my face, and the taste of it on my lips... and I... stood there... listening. A sudden excitement listening to the sound of a river that makes its way right And the voice of that river and the joys and the of all America's people. Well, Joe, that's my story. It's too bad been there tonight, Oh, he was there, Joe. He'll always be a part Whatever happened to Miss Sally? Well, I don't know exactly. She's on her own now. Maybe I'm just getting but ever since Jim's been gone, I... I feel like everything Maybe my music is ending too, Joe. Ending? He-hey, I gotta get You got some bows to take. No, sir, Mr. Kern. Your music ain't ending for you. In my opinion, She didn't say She didn't say stay She wasn't so sure She wasn't even sure So what did she do? She did just what Now laughing friends deride Tears I cannot hide So I smile and say When a lovely flame dies Smoke Gets in your eyes The last time I saw Paris Her heart was warm and gay I heard the laughter In every street cafe The last time I saw Paris Her trees were dressed And lovers walked And birds found I dodged That I had dodged The chorus of Was music to my ears The last time I saw Paris Her heart was warm and gay No matter I'll remember her That way Do sit down, Uh, you sure we Oh, certainly not. Well, I can't get We certainly don't grow stages Darling, look at the Why, you have everything That's right, We've tried to give you Yeah. Uh, what was the number Well, we found an that you did first in 1917 called &quot;The Land Where Oh-ho-ho. I'd almost We're using it as a frame Uh-huh. Uh, what star Well... Well, Mr. Kern, we're trying out a newcomer. Oh, a newcomer. This girl did a test and it impressed us, She hasn't done much yet, but we have great hopes for her. Quiet! We're ready. All right. Places, please! Okay, Charlie. Hit the lights! Quiet! Okay, roll 'em. Action! It's a land of flowers And April showers With sunshine With roses glowing And rivers flowing 'Mid rushes Where no one hurries... Like her, Mr. Kern? Like her? I'd rather hear her than anyone else in the world. Wouldn't you, Eva? ...And slow It's a land of flowers And I wish someday I could find my way To the land Yesterdays Yesterdays Days I knew as happy Sweet sequestered days Golden days Olden days Days of long ago And far Away Long ago and far away I dreamed a dream And now that dream Just one look And then I knew That all I longed for Long ago Was you A fine romance This is a fine romance With no kisses I might as well play bridge I haven't got a chance This is a fine romance You are The promised kiss That makes Seem long You are The breathless hush That trembles on the brink Of a lovely song You are the angel glow That lights a star The dearest things Are what you are Someday My happy arms And someday I'll know That moment divine When all the things You are Are mine Why was I born? Why am I living? What do I get? What am I giving? Why do I want the things I dare not hope for? What can I hope for? I wish I knew Why do I try To draw you near me? Why do I cry? You'll never hear me I'm a poor fool But what can I do? Why was I born To love you? Ol' Man River That Ol' Man River He must know somepin' But he don't say nothin' He just keeps rollin' He keeps on rollin' along He don't plant taters And he don't plant cotton And them what plants 'em Is soon forgotten But Ol' Man River Just keeps rollin' along You and me Bodies all achin' Tote that barge Ya get a little drunk And you land In jail I gets weary And so sick of tryin' I'm tired of livin' But I'm feared of dyin' And Ol' Man River He just keeps rollin' Along And Ol' Man River He just keeps rolling Along