Hey, there, guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're gonna be looking at some belt calculations. Now this is for a pulley system. As an example here, we've connected via a belt for these two pulleys over as the driving force for Now this is typical. You might find it in maybe You'd also have this and also some conveyor in manufacturing as well. So they're fairly commonplace, so let's do some maths on those. Now the two things we'll be calculating in this video are the belt length, so how long is or does that need to be, and also the distance which we're just gonna to find that. Now these calculations are mainly for existing installations, but you could also put if you want to calculate of the belt if you already between the two are and The second part, the is more if you already know and also you know the but you're not sure should be between them. So that calculation will Now I just wanna point out the figure you get from these, it may vary slightly from but this is the best calculation that you can perform to get So anyway, let's jump So first of all, we'll have What length does this belt need to be? And in this example, we're gonna look at the belt between the induction motor and also a centrifugal fan in a AHU. So we want to know this, the belt length, and that is the length Now we already know either from the manufacturer's data, or we can go out into the building and actually measure this. And remember the pulley the largest pulley you as we go through the calculation shortly. We also have pulley two, of this pulley as well. Again, this is either from And we also know the center distance between these two pulleys. Now, I've used a couple of symbols here. So we've got this symbol widely used for engineering, and this means diameter, so the distance from one side to the And also the center by C-C, meaning center-to-center. So the difference between that center and that center, or the Now, the formula we're going to use to calculate this is and it looks quite long, as it might first seem. I've also color-coded the numbers here, as many as possible just to and I've also split the screen so whichever units of you can follow these through. So first of all, if we and then drop these numbers in, taking the 200 or 7.874, and we drop those numbers So first of all, we'll We're just gonna minus these two here as well as multiplying these two brackets, or the figures within them, and we'll also going to add And for the next part, this top bracket here on the or the numerator. Then we'll just do the and obviously, as these to put inches on these ones, but as these are the same units, they just cancel out and become And we'll just multiply these bring this down to this last line here, and then we just simply add and you can see that is gonna come out with or 65.96 inches. So we just write those down and And that's it, so it's It's actually fairly simple. So for the next part, we're and this is gonna be metric first. You'll see in just a second that it's actually quite long-winded, and I wasn't able to fit both metric and Imperial on this for the Imperial version, through the video slightly. But otherwise, stick with us now, and we'll look at the metric. So in this calculation, we need to know what the distance is We already know what also what pulley two diameter is, and we also now know the belt length, but we do not know what the distance between these should be. So you can see from this formula here that this one's a bit more complex. Don't worry if this scares you, and you're not so hot in your maths. We're gonna go through it so let's jump into it. So the first part is obviously They're all color-coded, so you should be able to just drop these If you're following in from home, then just write these all down as so. First of all, you'll want to so you can see here. We're just gonna take these And we'll also do the same except we'll add these two together and the same for this bracket there. Next, I'm just going of this bracket here to get Then we're gonna multiply it four by 1675, and we're also gonna do 6.28 to get these two figures there. Then still within the brackets, this figure from here to Then we just square that And also multiply the 32 by 10,000 to get 320,000. We then just subtract these numbers there to get this one here. Then when you take the square to get this number there, and you can see I've so I'm gonna bring the So if we add those two numbers together, and we'll get 9598.66 over 16. And if we do the division So the center distance needs to be 600 millimeters. If you are gonna do this, you did it by Excel. It's a lot easier and quicker. But should you need to do it in exam, this is the calculation for that. So there you go. It's not as hard as it looks. Now for this calculation the distance between same as the metric version we just did, but this time we're gonna This is formula we need to use here. It's exactly the same as the metric. And it is a bit of a slightly more complex than the first calculation but don't worry. If this scares you and you're we're gonna walk through First of all, we just wanna So just replace these colored that you got from your example. And you just fill all of these out. Leave the numbers that are in black. They are constants. First of all, you'll want to calculate anything within the brackets. So you can see this one here. We just subtracted the numbers. This one here, we've added them, and this one here, we've to get this bracket and this bracket here. And this bracket here so I've just done that in this one here. And we can go through and We can do four multiplied 6.28 multiplied by 11.81 exactly the same for this set here. And in the next line, we're gonna just subtract these two numbers Then we can subtract these and we can also square this number here to get this one there. I would also multiply these together. So then we'll just from each other to get this one here. Then we take the square to get this one there. As you can see, I've run out of space at the bottom here, so we're So we just add these two numbers together to get 378.03 inches over 16. And if we do the division of the two, then we get 23.6 inches. So the center distance is going to be, in this case, 23.6 inches. Again, as you can see in this figure, how we calculated this, as it might have first looked. And if you want to do this calculation, I would highly recommend or a program like this, rather than by hand. But if you're going into an exam, then you'll want to do it like this. You can obviously speed but I've just put it out in long form so everyone can see how That's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope this has helped, Please don't forget to If you have any questions, in the comments section below. Also, don't forget to TheEngineeringMindset.com, and once again, thanks