I'm sorry, sister. Miss Blame it on your half sister. Venus, are your wings hardened? How many times have I told you Don't fight with your sister. Why don't you listen? I don't Dare to talk back You have lived in luxury in the Qin family for 19 years. Your sister suffered for 22 years out there. Just came back Why can't you let your sister? Dad, please stop hitting my sister. If my sister likes that pair of shoes I'll give it to him. It doesn't matter. I have nothing out there anyway. As long as my sister is willing to accept me I can do anything Okay, okay. No one likes me Uncle You will catch a cold if you get caught in the rain It's so late What are you doing in the cemetery alone? Uncle, what about you? My mother is also looking for I want to drink but this uncle is so fierce I want to drink Thanks Uncle Xie You are so nice very nice I love You stop drinking You all bully me Bully me for not having a mother Uncle, you don't have a mother either. Have you been bullied? If someone bullies you, you should fight back. Instead of crying here They are dads They are my sisters. They are the people closest to me. But why doesn't my father like me? Dare to talk back I think you should stop being Miss Qin. Go to your grandmother's house. grandmother You want to drive me away Get out of here The Qin family doesn't have a daughter as selfish and stingy as you. Get out! My sister bullied me. They don't want me anymore They left me in Kihara I have no home anymore Home You want a home I'll give you Will you give me a home? yes Just think of it as me going out for a drink tonight I promised What you said is true You have to give me a home You can't lie to me Boss, what's going on? Picked up a poor creature Throw me in the cemetery I have no home anymore Family members are just people who stab you in the back. Boss, I have checked what you want. The Second Miss of the Qin Family To Miss Qin's grandfather Xue Wanli is a man who has made great achievements in both business and politics. How could the granddaughter of the Xue family be thrown into the cemetery? Miss Qin's mother Xue Qian married Qin Haozhong Qin Haozhong thought he was hooking up with the Xue family I didn't expect the Xue family to break off relations with Xue Qian. Xue Qian died of dystocia No one from the Xue family came to pay homage. Miss Qin has never been valued by Qin Haozhong Over the years Thanks to Mr. Qin's protection Otherwise, Miss Qin might never grow up. The Qin family doesn't want me. boss How about this Very simple marry Go get Ma Ting's new household registration book tomorrow. yes Don't Leave You let go Don't you remember what you said you would do for me last night? I don't remember what I did to you? Looks like he's really drunk. You wake up crying in the middle of the night and hold me tightly I won't listen to anything you say. It must be stamped And said let me give you a home ah Sorry, I'm fine. Let's pack it up quickly. Let's take pictures Photograph What to take pictures of Of course, two people get married. It's a group photo. He's not that old. Happy 20th birthday to my wife How do you know today is my birthday? It's on his marriage certificate. Thank you uncle There Brother Ming Amin, my eldest lady What are you shouting on the street? You just won the Best Actress award yesterday. The heat is high now If you get caught by paparazzi, you're done. Just take the photo. Anyway, I am Zhao Min's fiancee, so what am I afraid of? Get out of the way Brother Ming Who is this person? Sweetheart, give you a home Can you help me solve a problem? Brother Ming What's your relationship? We have an engagement. Who decided it? Who are you looking for? husband What was he obsessed with? Drive over and follow them. Xixi, you are so smart Who is he? Why do you say it's your fiancee? An insignificant woman. You are my wife now Where did my fiancee come from? Wang Taizhu returns to the company It's already 10 o'clock Why hasn't the boss arrived yet? Is it because we haven't done a good job this month? The boss doesn't think it's necessary to listen to our report What does Wang Tezhu say I don't know. It's okay. Master Wang sent me a text message. The boss is in the elevator Also brought the Golden Wedding Lady True or false Go Go Go Go Wow Who is next to this? Wow Yeah, have you ever seen such a beautiful Why are you hiding? You are the president's wife now. It's really madam. True or false No more meetings Madam needs to study on her own Change the meeting place Wow, it's really ma'am. Really Madam ah lady Your boss will pick you up after the meeting. Thank you for calling me Qinxin. Not Madam Good lady ah Who are you and why are you with Zhuang Ming? Give it back to me You haven't answered why I'm with Zhuang Ming. Give it back to me You haven't answered why I'm with Zhuang Ming. I am his wife Of course I want to be with him It's impossible that I am Zhuang Ming's fiancee The position of the young lady of the banker is mine Haven't you seen them all on the roadside? It's actually true It must be you, a vixen, who seduced her. Zhuang Ming, you bitch Why do you hit people? Dare to snatch from me Zhuang Ming, I'm not only going to beat you I'm gonna kill you. Come to me Let me go Come and let me go Who allowed you to pretend? I can be bullied by anyone Does it hurt? Then I'll call you back. Zhuang Mingge Confidence is the final word in this account Otherwise, forget it. How can this little girl be so soft-hearted? Future cooperation with the dealer You Liu family, don't even think about getting a single point. Zhuang Ming, you do this Grandpa won't agree. I am the one in charge of the banker now. Visitors Liu Sisi Drag me out No more without my permission Don't let her in. Ms. Liu Please You are the one who caused all the trouble Zhuo Ming, did you know that you married her grandfather? I'll see how you explain it later. Letting go Letting go Don't worry, I'm here for you No one dares to bully you Uncle, you are drinking again Drinking alcohol all the time is bad for your health come over I'll go if you promise not to drink Okay, I won't drink today. It's so cold, aren't you cold? Okay, remember to wear shoes next time. Uncle The bag on your robe is loose I helped you put on your shoes just now Now you help me tie my belt I'm not nervous Since we are already husband and wife Then you have to adapt slowly. I'll take my time Okay, I won't bother with you anymore. Let me tell you something serious I'll take you to Xue's house tomorrow. Go to my grandpa's house Don't be afraid, I'm here Mr. Xue asks for your great name They are all family members You're welcome, Mr. Zhuang. Hello uncle, hello brother My sister is so good Come in By the way, you have a brother named Xue Qingxuan You should see him in movies often. The youngest actor He is busy filming today and can't come back Wait until the time comes Ask him to bring you a gift. Xinxin, don't be afraid I told my grandfather about your experience in the Qin family. Grandpa Xinxin actually always cares about you. It was because I severed my relationship with my aunt at that time. Said some unpleasant words Can't put down your face Go and say hello to grandpa. Hello Grandpa Grandpa, please stop answering. The stars should think you hate him. You and your mother look so much alike Xinxinlai Let grandpa take a closer look Xinxin, you have suffered over the years. It's all Grandpa's fault. I should have brought you back sooner. Grandpa, I'm sorry. I'm sorry about your mom and dad too. Xingxing, from now on, the Xue family is your home Your room Uncle has already arranged everything for you. Thank you Mr. Zhuang Send the stars back Uncle, you're welcome. Just live in Xue's house No need for that. Thank you for helping Xinxin But this doesn't mean we recognize you. Uncle brother My uncle and I are married. Xinxin: Actually, grandpa already knew about it. They want to break us up. Okay, your grandpa. This is recognition of you. Let's go to the restaurant to eat. Oh, Dad. You speak so seriously. Xinxin was so scared that she didn't dare to eat. Hey, look. My sister smiled It has to be me. Then I'm leaving. Slow down. Where is this brat Zhuang Ming? People are a little more refined But I'm really good to Xinxin That Qin Haozhong would only make Qian'er pay foolishly. Don't you say This guy is really courageous. He dares to fight for the stars He came to our house alone to negotiate What else can we say as long as we are willing to recognize the stars? Even if it's fake He took the piece of land on Huamao Central Street Send to us The land on Huamao Center Street is worth more than 1 billion yuan What about 1 billion? My bloody granddaughter Can it be measured by money? I don't know who was stubborn and unwilling to accept people's heart. How dare you talk to your grandfather? Notify Three days later, my Xue family will host a banquet I want all the wealthy dojos in Longcheng to I want the stars to return to their roots Uncle, I've washed it. Go wash it now It seems you are very happy today Happy thanks uncle I have a family again good Just be happy Go wash it now Mom, I have a home again. Zhang Ming, I heard from Sisi that you married a woman Um, asshole He dared to marry any woman who was not of good character outside. The crops won't admit it. Get back to me right now I don't need the crops to recognize Uncle, what's wrong with you? Did your family bully you? It's okay. I'm used to it. Uncle, I am your wife I am your family Don't worry I won't let them bully you. Since she's my wife What should you call me then? What? Do you really not understand or are you pretending not to understand? You should call me husband. It is necessary to give a friendly reminder When kissing The nose can breathe Your flies Uncle, this is too much. Madam, it's been more than ten years. You already have a new life in another world Your death anniversary a few days ago The young master stood in front of your tombstone all night The young master has a strong personality I have suffered a lot in these years Fortunately, the young master is finally not alone The young master brought back a very cute girl I believe he will be happy. Uncle was so sad that day He must be missing his mother. What happened to Sissi? I just want to hug you Be good, I'll take you to school first I'll pick you up in the evening. Uncle is so nice Still calling me uncle? husband Thank you, Senior Xue, for coming to give me personal guidance these two days. We finally have the opportunity to see Senior Xue up close Xue Xingqiu, Senior Xue He is the most powerful senior in our senior year of dance. He was selected by the national team before he graduated. Participate in international competitions I won the gold medal for dance. Coming, coming The city-level dance competition will begin in a month The TV station will broadcast the event live To strengthen your training From today on, I will strictly supervise you ah It seems that people don't know me well. I'm not here to play with you. I will be the beginning of your nightmare I look more casual. But there is no room for any sand in my eyes People who don't work hard Don't you understand that I don't even have a chance to go on stage? District Chief Xu heard A very talented student is coming to our dance class. As the center, our previous center has always been Qin Xin. Who is going to transfer? I From now on, this C position will be It's mine, aren't you right, sister? Xinxin, I will be by your side from now on You don't need to be afraid of anyone I won't allow you to be bullied again, understand? Give him everything. I don't want to give up now No, I am the center of the dance group now. If you want to replace me Then you have to beat me. Don't you dare to disobey me? I just want to play fair. Do you not want to go back to the Qin family? Hey, our sister Xiaoli is the well-deserved center Last year's solo dance competition After Qin Xin learned that our sister Xiao Li participated Just admitted defeat and retired Doesn't this prove that our sister Xiaoli dances better than her? If you don't quit I'll go home and tell my dad that you don't let me go at school. Do you think he will scold you harshly? Then kick you out I've given up on Qin Xin. I advise you to give the C position to Sister Xiaoli. This will save you some face. Otherwise, if you lose, you will just smile generously. I used to give in to my sister. Dad still doesn't like me They also drove me to the cemetery Now Wei Zhuangming has a grandfather and a brother. I am no longer alone I will never give up this time I want to fight with you Are you crazy? Want to battle with me Qin Xiaoli, you wouldn't dare, would you? Do you think you can get the center position with just a few words? This is a dance competition. This is not a crosstalk performance Please, the coach has to decide on the C position. We decided it privately. Not counted Xue Xue, I am Xing Xiaoli When I entered the dance class You should have seen my video. Xue Xian is a member of the Xue family The Xue family never recognized him. Xue Xian definitely won't like Qi Xin either. He might help me speak up. I saw it, the dance is not that good. OK, since you want to compete for the C position Then battle with Qin Xin The dance team pays attention to Fairness and Justice Is there anyone who is dissatisfied Anyone can participate in this battle competition The competition for position C is over All Stay in your dancing position Stop thinking about those things. Xinxin, you dance very well. Qin Xiaoli's level Still want to compete with Xinxin for the C position Who gave her the courage? Where is Fish Leong? I didn't expect my Xinxin to be so talented in dancing. Congratulations I declare that Qin Xin will be the center of the dance team from now on Who dares to question Qin Xin's strength again? Quit the dance team Qixian you bitch If it weren't for you My mother and I would not have been raised outside for so many years Robbed me of my wealth and happiness Still want to compete with me for the C position Qi Xian, I will never let you go So handsome and so elegant Looks so rich If I could have a boyfriend like this in my lifetime This life is worth it Uncle Come on, I'll take you home. Let's go Miss Xiaoli I just saw your sister with a guy In a luxury car Luxury car The Xue family doesn't want him The Qin family doesn't want him Who else can he get in a good car with? But I think that car is more expensive than the one you are riding in Is it possible that he is being kept by an old man? If you can't go home, you will degenerate and find an old man to support you. Qinxin, ah Qinxin If Xue knew that he was kept by an old man His C position will definitely be cancelled I want to bring him down. I will never be able to enter the Xue family Thank you, what a coincidence What's the matter? It's not because of Xinxin's matter If you want to talk about the C position That's not necessary. I said who is dissatisfied with Qin Xin's C position You can quit the team Of course not Qin Xin She is my sister How could I argue with her? Because he ran away from home He ran away from home Well, Xinxin had a fight with her dad the other day. I'm so angry that I want to run away from home He also cried and begged his father to move his household registration out. Someone came to my house two days ago. Took away his household registration book School is over today Some classmates also saw him getting into a car with an old man Behavior is very intimate I advised him. But he really didn't listen to me So I have no choice But as a girl, he shouldn't be like this. Xue Xue hums So you mean Xinxin cuts off ties with the Qin family? She was kept by someone. Isn't it? Qin Xiaoli, what are you pretending to be? Xinxin was forced away by you Or she ran away from home on her own Do you think I'm blind? I tell you Xinxin will always be my sister And what are you? I warn you If you dare to say something bad about the stars again I will make it difficult for you to survive in the palace. Didn't your Xue family disown him? The Xue family asks you to talk too much and let you go. Let Xue Xingqiu go I am the eldest daughter of the Qin family How dare you do this to me? The Qin family is just relying on the garbage of my aunt Qin's family. Remember what I said If you dare to say bad things about Xinxin again I'm not asking you to shut up and see her. snort Qi Xin, you bitch What kind of fox girl tricks did she use? Why does Xue Qingqiu protect you? But as long as the Xue family doesn't recognize you You are just a wild girl who has no one to adopt you. It's been a busy day. Haven't eaten yet. Eat something quickly knew Why don't you like the smell of cigarettes? Um Smoking is harmful to your health Can I not smoke? good But what should I do if I want to stay up late to stay awake? Is there no other solution? Yes, I have For example Kiss me and I'll quit smoking Um This is not enough for you Please put me down. I have to rehearse tomorrow. rehearse No matter him husband Remember to pick me up after school today How about tomorrow? Scholars hold banquet To disclose your identity I have some things to arrange. Brother Star called me. He said he would send the dress tonight. Uh, I've prepared a dress for you. Go back and try tonight Wear whichever you like My husband is so nice I'm going to school first. Ahhhh What are you doing? Why is He Ping so careless? Come on, sister, let me wipe it for you Ah, sister You are too careless. How did you fall? Sister Xiaoli, you are the one who values friendship and loyalty Still treat him as a sister He was kicked out of the Qin family. He's not even on the household register anymore. Peaceful words cannot be said like this Even if he was kicked out of the Qin family She's my sister too. Xiaoli is kindhearted. This kind of thing is kept by an old man as a mistress No one wants her anymore. You still recognize her. Who did you say was kept? Don't talk nonsense. Sister, stop making excuses. yesterday All the classmates saw you get into an old man's car That's my family. snort family The Xue family doesn't want you The Qin family doesn't want you Any other family members? I'm looking at you Stop fooling yourself. and Who knows if that old man is any good? I don't allow you to insult uncle like this Let me go, uncle. You are really being kept by an old man. As a sister I'm going to teach you a lesson today. Sisters and sisters are all doing this for your own good. You are the blood of the Qin family. How could I degenerate into marrying an old man? You said if you didn't have this seal He will like you Let me go What are you doing This is the school Sister Xiaoli, this is Professor Qin, the most authoritative professor in the Department of Literature. If Xiaoli is caught by Professor Qin We will definitely be expelled from school. You're lucky snort Are you okay? I'm fine thanks to Mr. Qin's timely help. Thank you. Who were those female classmates just now? you tell me I'll go find them Counselor Dad The school also contributed a lot There's no point telling the counselor. They are all on Qin Xiaoli's side Don't be afraid of this kind of thing. Be bold to speak out Dare to fight back Otherwise they know you are easy to bully. I will continue to bully you. Teacher Qin, you are right. But the thing between me and him The school can't solve it. Hey, this kid Thank you Mr. Qian for your concern I'm leaving first Why does she look so much like Xue Qian? husband Xinxin Being bullied Who bullied you? Qin Xiaoli wants to destroy my appearance He also said that I was kept by an old man My uncle is not an old man. In-laws again It seems like there are too many good days. I can't even take care of my daughter. Don't worry, Sissi I will definitely get back what bullied you. Mr. Zhuang is really good to his wife. I heard about this necklace. Before his death, he was a top foreign designer Designed for his wife. Symbolizes eternal love There is only this one in the world Do I look good, man? You're wearing the suit I bought for you. Yeah, looks good My Xinxin looks good in anything she wears It's time to go Today, the Xue family is hosting a banquet You are the protagonist We have to arrive early. Xiaoli, our Qin family's stocks suddenly plummeted last night I suspect someone is playing tricks on us. You have to behave well today. If you can curry favor with the banker Not only can it solve our Qin family's problems Our status in the circle will also rise. Um Don't worry, Dad. I won't let you down Young Master, please come over. I won't go, the old man said. If you don't go Then he will invite your wife next time. Thanks, I'll go there first. Be back soon Don't run around If you have anything to ask, please contact the Xue family. I see You go quickly Don't keep grandpa waiting. Um Qinxin How did you get in? You didn't know that the Xue family is hosting a banquet today. Did he come here on purpose to recognize his relatives? I'd better stop dreaming. Now I can save some face by going out Don't make me ask security to kick you out. Are you finished? Can you give me my cake back? I'm talking to you, don't you hear me? I told you to get out I am the host of today's banquet. Why should I leave? You should be the one to leave. Master Have you become demented after being with an old man for so long? You are the host of the banquet. They don't even recognize your mother. Will you recognize you? dream Qi Xiaoli, what nonsense are you talking about? What are you arguing about? How come you are here? Why don't you always listen? Always causing me trouble. This is not the place for you Apologize to your sister right now. Then get out right away I didn't do anything wrong Why are you apologizing? He stole my cake. And he spoke rudely to me Dad, why are you always so partial? Don't call me dad. There is no daughter as disobedient as you. dad I think my sister sneaked in and wanted to recognize her as a relative. He misses his family We can understand Don't be angry But he came in so suddenly What if the Xue family is unhappy and it affects our Qin family? Listen to what your sister says. When will you be half as sensible as she is? If you don't want to implicate the Qin family Get out of here right now I won't leave. This is my grandpa's house. You don't recognize me anymore Why are you driving me away? I have raised you for nothing. Not at all worrying Get out, get out Let me go stop It can't be the second lady of the Qin family You are really over-pampered. This was called at night. Uncle Where are you ah ah Ah, Mr. Xue President Qin was at our Xue family's banquet Bullying our little princess of the Xue family Want to go against our Xue family You and Qin Xin, what are you doing? It seems that Mr. Qin is not well-informed. Today we have a banquet at Xue's house It is to announce that our Xue family's little princess Qin Xin Officially returned to the Xue family You think in this public place Drive Qi Qin out Don't you think highly of our Xue family? You recognized him Why do you recognize him? You clearly Shut up Mr. Xue, this is a misunderstanding It's really a misunderstanding I really don't know This planet has destroyed the Xue family Hey Planet Look, this kid is really Why didn't you tell dad earlier? You kicked Xinxin out of the Qin family I want him to tell you something. Don't think I don't know How have you treated Xinxin over the years? Now Xinxin has returned to Xue's house If you dare to bully her again Consider whether the entire Qin family can afford the compensation. Someone, get these two people out! From now on, they are not allowed to attend our Xue family's banquets. Xue Qingxuan, I consider you as the eldest son of the Xue family. Three points for you Don't you forget Since you have recognized each other Then you still have to call me uncle. Why are you chasing me away? Who are you? You are also worthy of being my uncle. We in the Xue family recognize relatives who are blood relatives. Not your kind of trash. Ryan dragged out You don't have to do anything. We go on our own I don't walk Were you scared? Don't be afraid of me in the future The last time you came home, I was on the set and didn't make it back in time. This is a gift for you. Thank you, brother Where's Chongming? Why isn't he with you? He just went out I'll go find him You and Qinqin go to the same school. You didn't know that he has been recognized by the Xue family? You are his father You don't know either Who dares to talk back? You ruined the Qin family's chance to turn things around. You just stay here for me. I don't care what you can do. Must bring fresh back waste Dad's Tanabata Don't think you're great just because you have Xue Jie backing you up. As long as your Bajie becomes crops Don't ever step on me. I want you to divorce Did you hear that? Go and get a divorce from me right now Sese is your fiancee Are you done? After that I I have to go. My wife is waiting for me outside. What wife? Your wife can only be Miss Liu It's not just any random cat or dog found outside. Grandpa, don't be angry. Brother A-Ming was just blinded by that vixen. You talk to him nicely. Don't worry about your health. Who do you say is a fox spirit? Brother Ming I'm worried that you've been deceived. Sisi cares about you What's your attitude? Care about me What is he? Qin Xin is my wife If any of you dare to attack him again Don't blame me for being rude to you. Stop for me If you dare to step out of this door today Don't even think about going back to the banker's house. Since my mother passed away I am no longer a member of the Zhuang family You white-eyed wolf Now the entire banker's place is in my hands I want to be a white-eyed wolf You can still stay here safely now. Be your old man Zhuang? Damn thing me me me ah Happy Happy Happy Why are you here? Are you okay? I'm fine. I just heard it at the door. Don't listen to their nonsense. As long as you don't abandon me I won't hate you This is the woman you kept outside Hello, Grandpa Zhuang Look at what occasion this is. What kind of people of questionable character are brought here? Today is a big day for the whole family You carry the Heart of the Ocean Brother Ming bought this for you. There is only one hum worth hundreds of millions in the world She is indeed a vixen You really want my grandson's money. My wife buys whatever she wants. What does it have to do with you? And he's not some shady guy. If you think so If Liu Sisi were to marry into my family Then you marry her yourself. Why do you have to pull me? Damn thing Anyway, in your heart I've been a jerk for a long time. Aren't you used to it after all these years? Husband, stop talking. Sister, stop being hypocritical. If it wasn't for you Could Brother Zhuang Ming have such a quarrel with Grandpa? Liu Sisi, are you crazy? Didn't you hear what I just said? Brother Ming We grew up together. Are you really going to fall out with me over this woman? Zhuang Ming, you just marry a woman of questionable character. Are you worthy of the banker's years of training you? Are you worthy of your mother? You don't deserve to mention my mother. If you still want to continue in this Zhuang Group Be your old man Zhuang's words Don't mind my business. Hey Zhuang Ming You are now the boss of the bank. He doesn't deserve you at all Who said my granddaughter is not worthy of Zhuang Ming? Grandfather Brother Xue, she is your granddaughter Sister, come to grandpa quickly. Brother, I really didn't know she was your granddaughter Otherwise I wouldn't This only shows that you are an incompetent grandfather. I don't understand your grandson. Even my granddaughter-in-law doesn't recognize me. I told you before If Xinxin is wronged in the slightest From now on, Xinxin will move back to Xue's house with me. Oh, this won't work. I promise This won't happen again today. If he doesn't agree with me marrying Xinxin I will cut off ties with the dealer. Hey, thanks bro. Today's incident It was my fault I apologize to Xinxin Grandpa Zhuang, even Grandpa Zhuang has given in. Is there really no chance for Zhuang Ming and I? Grandpa Zhuang, you don't have to be like this. Forget it. Mr. Zhuang Because you don't know the identity of the gorilla. But you shouldn't take advantage of your age. This used to be of no concern to Zhuang Ping. What's the point of this interfering now? Thank you, you are right. Young people's affairs Love is what it is, let them be what they are Zhuang Ming can marry Xue's granddaughter That's his blessing. Let's go The banquet is about to begin. When everyone announces Qin Xi is me Xue Wanli's only granddaughter Grandpa Zhuang, you are one of the best in the business world. Why are you so afraid of Xue Wanli? Although he is also a well-known figure in the business world But it's not as good as the banker. The Xue family is not only a business Besides, the Xue family has been rooted in Longcheng for many years. Powerful Go against them It will only end up in a lose-lose situation. If the marriage A promising future But Grandpa Zhuang Brother Ming and I have been engaged since childhood Hey Sisi You have known the general situation since childhood. The marriage contract is just a joke for adults. Don't take it seriously. But don't worry. Even if you don't marry Zhuang Ming You are my granddaughter too. Let's go, don't miss this fresh date. Hey, go, go, go This is fucking First of all, thank you all for attending today's banquet I declare that Qin Xin is my only granddaughter, Xue Wanli. Wife, look This is the photo I took of you at the party Does it look good? Really handsome husband Your technique is really good Now you have the material for your circle of friends today. That's my wife. Xinxin herself is very beautiful My Xinxin is the most dazzling existence Husband, I feel like meeting you It's the luckiest thing in my life. Xinxin, I should be the one saying this to you. Ouch Ouch The banker in power I must take it Are you okay? What's going on? Boss, someone is scamming me Solved in 3 minutes Miss I sprained my foot Could you please give me a ride, Mr. Zhuang? I am Qin Xiaoli, the eldest daughter of the Qin family. Miss Qin, do you know How many women want to scam our boss every day? If you're alright, just go by yourself. Don't block our way. How dare you, a worker, talk to me like this? Believe it or not, I asked Mr. Zhuang to fire you. Baby, go down and see I want him to always say that I am kept by an old man I want him to see My husband is not an old man. This is not an old man. What is that Handsome Walk Qi Xin, why are you here? This is my husband's car. I'm not here Where should my husband be? Miss Qin, I heard you slandered me No, Mr. Qin I didn't know it was you Miss Qin, please remember Qin Xin is my wife If I hear you talking nonsense outside again Don't blame me for being rude to you. drive Why should the Xue family support you? Lian Zhuang Ming married you Why do all the good things happen to you? Why don't you just die? Honey, are you being coquettish today? Of course not. But when you hugged me and asked me to kiss you Especially like a big spoiled dog Super cute Cute Ha ha Xinxin Cute is not a word used to describe adult men. It is exclusive to Xinxin My dear, you are so heavy. Get up quickly Don't move Honey, I have something important to tell you. You get up first You close your eyes This is me teaching dance lessons outside I bought this for you with my part-time job money Just think of it as a wedding gift for you Although it's a bit late But this is my intention Who to send to For my husband Thank you I like it very much But the stars are my most precious gift You woke up I'm in the preliminary round today This is the dance costume my eldest brother gave me. Does it look good? nice But aren't you afraid of exposing yourself when dancing in such a short skirt? To do a lot of dance moves If the skirt is too long, it will affect the flexibility of the movement. Don't worry Won't be exposed You see, I'm wearing stockings to prevent exposure. good But I can't bear to let others see you who are so beautiful Zhao Ming takes Xingxing back to Xue's house whenever he is free It's been 5 days since I came back. You guys can take care of your home Take back all the things his mother left behind. Let Xingxing see what his mother looked like before Grandpa, I have a dance competition today. I can't see you anymore I'll come find you after I finish the game. Good good good My dear granddaughter, I'll ask your brother to compete with you. Come on! Oh, by the way, grandpa You said you found something about your mother? Your mother used to keep a diary. These are all her diaries and some photos. Okay, I'll send someone to get it later. Sister Xiaoli, although you are not the center this time But you dance so well The audience will definitely see it You want me to say How can that little bitch Xinxin compare to me? Everyone, be quiet. Now let me introduce today's important guest Our top actor Xue Qingxuan Joker Xue Male God Male God I'm here to watch the game up close. There are two main reasons First? Cheer for your alma mater What about the second one? It's just a selfish organization I want to cheer up my baby cousin Who is it? Who is it? Who is the actor's cousin? Hidden so deep It's your husband Xue Xi Xue Xue Xingqiu It's your brother Why why All the good stuff is yours Hey everyone, have a good game What to do with these I said it all Let him not come Miss Xiaoli You are Xue Yingdi's cousin I'm so envious Can you get his autograph for me? Can I take a photo with you? Oh, stop discussing this. My brother is usually very busy. there is no time The game is about to start Please prepare to enter The actor smiled at you Xiaoli sister movie emperor loves you boss I just got this back from school. All information about this lady and her mother The incident of Xue Qian's love letter I don't agree with Qin Haozhong Wang Taizhu Find a way to help me get Qin Haozhong's hair I want to do a DNA comparison Suspect that he is not Xinxin's biological father Not the lady's biological father I'll go get a paternity test right away. This sister is so beautiful I want this woman to give up in 5 minutes I'm going to a new school Immediately Please invite our judges to give the scores Wow top score Congratulations to our Huajin College Dance Team for the highest score Won the championship of our preliminary competition Congratulations on successfully advancing to the next round of the city-level competition Sister Xiaoli, your brother is coming to give you flowers. My cousin, these flowers are for Xinxin, right? I'll help you give it to him I don't have any hands, do you want my help? besides I'm not your cousin younger sister Congratulations Thank you, brother You are the sister of Mr. Xue. Listen to Qin Xiaoli say that I thought he was the movie star's sister. I just see it He was deliberately pretending to be the movie emperor's sister Hypocritical Qin Xin is Xiaoli's sister Qin Xin's brother Naturally, he is also Xiaoli's brother. Do you understand? I don't know who it is Some time ago, it was said that Qin Xin had left the Qin family. Isolating people in public Now I see that he has a brother who is an actor I want to recognize my relatives again How shameless! I don't want shame Why are you pretending to be a good person here? When I bullied them You are also a bystander Now I'm like I don't care Hanging high I'm disgusting. I think you're disgusting. You say we are disgusting Emperor Xu Qin Xiaoli said she is your sister Is she? So when I walked in You always thought Qin Xiaoli was your brother's sister. I don't know her Don't get involved with me. My only sister is Qin Xin Sister Xiaoli is also Qin Xin's sister Why do you only recognize one sister? Wasn't I kicked out of the Qin family? You all said I will no longer be registered in the Qin family Then I don't have a sister. The Qin family is the Qin family I have nothing to do with them. Qin Xin is my aunt's daughter She is my real blood sister. Did you hear that? Qin Xiaoli and Xue Yongdi said they didn't even know you You love vanity I think you are the real play brother Sister Xiaoli, wait a minute. Sister Xiaoli Oh, ignore him. You are the eldest daughter of the Qin family. What would happen if I didn't have Xue Qinxuan as my brother? If you hadn't talked nonsense Will they target me? I'm speaking for you. Do I want you to mind your own business? Get out of here. I took first place today. Let's go to the celebration banquet together Xinxin, please ask your brother to come along. Yes, yes. Let's go together, Emperor Qianying I may not be able to attend the celebration party Ah why? You are the C position How can you not go? Yes, Xinxin Let's go together. I told you I Do you want to celebrate with Zhuang Ming? Excuse me I'm going to take Xinxin out for a big dinner tonight So I can't accompany you. Okay, I understand. I understand. You are the movie star It would be bad if we were photographed eating out together. Then we'll go first. Bye Bye Thank you, brother Still so polite to my brother Go ahead. It's time for me to go back to the crew. Bye-Bye Um Um Why don't you answer the phone? Hello How do I get to the dance competition venue? Go over there Thanks Is the fairy single? Do you want to debut? Signed with my brother's company My brother made you a top star ah Are you afraid of me? What do I have to be afraid of? I am married Not single, I just want to dance Don't want to be a star And I'm not afraid of you I just think you're sick. ah No, you can make a lot of money in the entertainment industry. You let go It's okay if you don't want to go in now. Please add a contact method Contact me when you want to debut in the future Whose contact do you want? Husband, why are you here? I just called you but couldn't get through I left in such a hurry that I didn't see it. My phone is out of battery This is my sister-in-law. Oh sister-in-law I'm sorry. I was careless just now. I didn't know it was you Otherwise, even if I had ten thousand guts, I wouldn't dare to stop you. I'm not your brother Even though you don't want to admit it But that's the truth We are half brothers You are my buddy Xixi, I'll help you get out. But my mother has always refused to recognize me What should I do? Xinxin, congratulations on winning first place in the competition Thank you, husband I have a small gift for you. You Then help me bring it. Give you some We work hard slowly If you feel sleepy, go back and rest first. Honey, let's go to bed early. Staying up late is bad for your health You go take a bath first I'll look at a file and then go back. The boss's paternity test results are out Madam and Qin Haozhong have no blood relationship Qin Haozhong is not Xinxin's biological father Who is Xinxin's biological father? Qin Haozhong is such a snobbish person How could I help someone else raise their daughter for so many years? I want that year All the information about Xue Qian and Qin Haozhong since they met Yo, isn't this Qin Xiaoli's follower? Why doesn't she want you? So pitiful He thought that the eldest daughter of the Qin family whom he flattered was great. She treats you like a dog. Come when you call and go when you wave? Haha What are you doing? Don't bully others casually Are you okay? Xue Yingdi's sister You can't afford to offend I'm fine, thank you. A little help Thank you for what I did to you before You actually helped me You are such a kind of stupid That is to say When Xue Qian met Qin Haozhong They also have a mutual friend named Qin Qingru Yes This Qin Qingru is currently teaching at Madam School Professor of Literature Department of Literature If it is the Department of Literature Can write these words This is not surprising. Boss, are you still investigating Qin Qiru? Keep checking. elder brother What are you doing here? I want to talk to you about something about my sister-in-law. Come in My brother said it was this Qin Xiaoli She came recently I invested in the crew and auditioned I thought, isn't she my sister-in-law's elder sister? So I didn't know how to arrange it. Just ask This is what you told me about your sister-in-law. Roll, brother, roll You come out with me first So many years My brother still doesn't recognize me Actually, the boss is not targeting you. Mainly the dealer side I know it's my mom who's sorry for him. But we are always a family He is my brother. Actually, Master Ze, you want to please Lao Wan It's not that there is no way Actually, Master Ze, you want to please the boss It's not that there is no way The boss has been paying special attention to his wife lately. That's just the stars in the sky that the lady wants That has to be taken off. If you can get the lady's favor The boss here So today I am just using my sister-in-law's matter as an excuse Are you here to find him? Is this your wife's business? Do you know that Qin Xiaoli has a grudge against the lady? When Madam was at Qin's house I was badly bullied by Qin Xiaoli That is Qin Xiaoli and Qin Haozhong Kicked the wife out of the Qin family The boss just saw the lady. Brought him home Having said that No wonder my brother was so angry just now Yes, asking you to go away is easy. If we look at what's on this table Just smash whatever you want. My brother is usually so fierce. What do you think? You think How did this business world get the title of &quot;The Cold-Faced King of Hell&quot;? So thinking My brother is quite gentle to me. If you say so, then it is Oh, that's right. What's going on with Qin Xiaoli? How dare Qin Xiaoli treat my sister-in-law like this? I was trying to find a good role for her. How can someone with such bad character want to be an actor? Come to our company I will help you realize your dream of becoming an actor Are we going to the company to look for Zhuang Ming? Yes Ma'am The boss has a meeting today. Can't make it to pick you up So send me to pick you up at the company. ha Madam, are you okay? I'm fine, please get off the car and have a look. Master, are you okay? master Are you okay? Big Brother, please help me My brother seems to be frightened Cold sweat all over No response no matter how I called Ouch Do you want me to call the emergency number? Oh, no need I have a trauma from the car accident. Just get off the car and wait for a while. Professor Qin Why is it you, classmate? Stop the small talk. You really don't need to go to the hospital. I can't take responsibility if something goes wrong with you. Hey, I'm fine. You go first Let's deal with the traffic accident. Sorry, Professor Qin. It's all because we didn't pay attention when we turned. That's why you got hurt. You don't have to apologize I overreacted. I broke my leg 20 years ago. So I have a trauma from the car accident. Do you really feel okay now? Well, if you could buy me a cup of coffee, I think it'll be alright soon. Okay, of course. No problem. Let's go. Qiqi Husband, why are you here? The bodyguard just told me that there was a car accident. I came right away Are you okay? I'm fine Then your meeting What meeting? You are not as important as me Hello, what is this gentleman's name? My name is Zhuang Ming Is a businessman It's also his husband. Zhuang Ming The president of a decoration group often mentioned in financial news I am Qin Qingru Professor of the Department of Literature at Qinxin School Why Xixi, I'm a little hungry. Why don't you go buy me some food first? Did you miss your meal because you were busy with work? You're always bad for your stomach. You wait for me to buy it for you. ah Mr. Zhuang, you don't have to be hostile to me. I don't mean anything to your wife. He is just my student. He looks too much like my lover. I just want to invite him for coffee. Learn more Qin Qingshui and Xue Qian Qin Haozhong has a dispute Now he says Xinxin looks like his lover Could he be Xinxin's biological father? Mr. Qin, what I am going to say next My wife is not comfortable listening I just noticed that Mr. Qin's leg was injured. I'd like to ask how you got injured. There was a car accident 20 years ago. Was it 20 or 21 years ago? This was 21 years ago As expected, there is no coincidence in the world Xinxin is 21 years old Plus 10 months in the womb Exactly 21 years have passed Sudden car accident I'm afraid it's not an accident Mr. Zhuang, what can I do for you? Do you know Xue Qian? Professor Qin is very smart You mean Xinxin's mother? Xinxin's biological father is not Qin Haochu If it weren't for him Who do you think it will be? After the car accident I'll calculate carefully. Maybe it's really my daughter. Does this require a paternity test first? This car accident was so coincidental Xue Qian got into a car accident while pregnant We still need to check if it was an accident. Then I'll go get a paternity test now. Don't worry I haven't told Xinxin about this yet. I'll prepare her mentally first. Xixi is back from shopping soon if If Professor Qin cannot control his emotions I suggest you either leave first husband Where is Professor Qin? Oh, he said he had something to do so he left first oh husband Have some fruit and take a break. good Xinxin I want to ask you a question What? If your biological father is not Qin Haozhong What will happen to you? I have no idea He has ignored me since I was a child. My grandfather brought me here. And since Qin Xiaoli returned to the Qin family My father became more and more violent towards me. He kicked me out of the Qin family If I give you a chance to choose again Would you like Qin Haozhong to be your father? I just wish I was grandpa's granddaughter Xinxin, let me show you something What? This is your game day. I'll send someone to get it back for you. These are your mother's relics. Really Um But before you look at I want you to prepare yourself mentally. Your mother Maybe she had no relationship with Qin Haozhong My dad has no relationship with my mom. This means Qin Haozhong is not your biological father. Whose daughter am I? Your father may be someone else. This word looks good. This word is thin gold It is a test of a person's character. Judging from this writing style and ancient style The author of this letter Should be a very gentle and elegant People who like literature My dear, your handwriting is so sharp. Does it mean that you are a very indifferent person? What? Am I indifferent to you? No Dear Qian'er, Xinyue I have seen your face A glimpse under the peach blossom tree at the beginning of school You are like petals falling into my heart You probably saw me too. It's just that I'm introverted and have low self-esteem. I dare not recognize you I can only get to know you and fall in love with you through letters Think carefully This is indeed inappropriate. It's a trick I sincerely apologize to you I also promised to meet you Yours sincerely, Mr. Qin These letters seem to come every seven days. right Judging from the calendars of those years These letters seem to be written every Friday night And these mailing addresses are all sent from schools From this we can conclude The person who wrote this letter should be a resident student And this Qin Haozhong He is not a resident student. And judging from the opening records of that year I spent several Fridays with Chen Lian. Chen Lian Qin Xiaoli's mother right and Judging from the time your mother had sex with him That day happened to be Qin Xiaoli's birthday Qin Haozhong should have been in the hospital all day So it can't be him. If that's the case, Why did my father become Qin Haozhong? You should ask your biological father and Qin Haozhong about this. Just know After that day, your mother started dating Qin Haozhong And she wants to marry Qin Haozhong Breaking up with your grandfather It's so complicated. Who is this Mr. Qin? Hao Xin I'll help you find out. Although it is almost like a mother But before I personally verify the results Still can't tell Thank you, lest the greater the hope, the greater the disappointment My husband, I think these are not important now. As long as you are by my side Besides, so many years have passed. Maybe he already has his family. And the children Wife Anyway, no matter what I will always be your relative Clothes of prayer Mo Tian Professor Qin Good morning Professor Qin It's Xinxin. Come on. Professor Qin, how do you feel today? I'm fine. Thank you for your concern That's good. I'll go to the classroom first. Good Oops, I forgot my period is coming today. Xinxin, what's wrong with you? ah Professor Qin, I'm fine. I might need to go to the bathroom first. Why Xinxin You use my clothes to cover it. good Thank you Professor Qin Hey Peace Why hasn't Qin Xiaoli come these two days? Is it because of the random recognition of relatives in the competition? Got hit I feel so ashamed that I dare not come to school. Don't ask me, I don't know What's the use of asking him? Qin Xiaolu doesn't want his little follower anymore The dog licks until he has nothing left. Then do you know what Qin Xiaoli has been doing these two days? I know I heard that he went to a media company for an interview two days ago. Accepted I should be in the crew filming these two days. Wouldn't it be possible to see many celebrities? The match was over that day I thought Qin Xin would be selected by the media company first. I didn't expect it to be Qin Xiaoli I'm not interested in these Xinxin is so excellent It takes more than a few minutes to enter the entertainment industry Besides, Xinxin's brother is Xue, the movie emperor. What are you arguing about? I don't know if I'm studying now. Together Don't you want to know Why does Qin Xiaoli always target you? No, I said He has nothing to do with me anymore. I have my life and my family How he treats me is his business I don't care about these. He has entered the entertainment industry Aren't you afraid that you are worse than him? So what? I said he has nothing to do with me. Besides, I never think I am worse than him. Who is he? Mr. Zhuang, President of Fengyun Media Group Isn't he Zhuang Haoze? Zhuang Haoze is also a farmer If I could hook up with him I'm still afraid of Zhuang Ming And my resume was approved by Mr. Zhuang. He must be interested in me. Hello Mr. Zhuang I am Qin Xiaoli What role does Qin Xiaoli play? She is new But good talent She was given a dozen scenes. Miss Family Thank you director for your appreciation Other newcomers all started out as extras. I had a role in more than a dozen scenes when I first arrived. In a few years, I will definitely become famous. The young lady from aristocratic family is so ugly I think It would be fine if she played a maid who cleaned the toilet. Mr. Zhang, please stop joking. Don't you remember me? I am Qin Xiaoli, the eldest daughter of the Qin family. Those who have attended the Xue family banquet before They are all upper class people. After Zhuang Haoze knew my identity Probably not anymore. The Qin family is a lowly family. I have never heard of it. And it is even more impossible for me to know You're such an ugly bastard. Do you know how to arrange it? Oh, I know. Xiaoqin, have you ever offended Xiao Zong before? I don't know I didn't do anything He did this to me Mr. Xiaozhuang is always kind to others. Takes good care of the actors. This is the first time I heard him curse. Could it be him? Who is Qin Xin My sister She always bullies me. Always targeting me Recently she seduced Zhuang Ming He is Zhuang Haoze's brother He must have asked him to target me. Stop talking now. How dare you mention Mr. Zhuang's name casually? To be heard by caring people A society ruled by law for life Can he kill people and set fire to things? Who says that to destroy a person you have to kill or burn him? You offended the crops. This road will be difficult to walk on from now on I advise you Leave now Why I got the interview based on my own strength. I won't leave You didn't pass the interview at all It was Xiao Zhuangzi who asked you to come in. We all thought you had some relationship with Xiao Zhuangzi. I only arranged a dozen scenes for you. I didn't expect that Xiao Zhuangzi let you in just to tease you. To be honest, your acting skills are really bad It's for your own good that I let you go My acting skills are not that good I think you have poor eyesight. I'm here. Want to drive me away? It's impossible that she's just playing a maid. I can do you good You don't know what's good for you as you like Now we can be sure that Qin Qingru is the biological father of the lady. Keep checking. Qin Xinru's car accident How was Qin Haozhong replaced? Although Xinxin now seems to be indifferent But to prevent future troubles We need to take all the information It is in our own hands The lady is here Xinxin husband Whose clothes are these? I came here today Got my pants dirty Fortunately, I met Professor Qin He gave me the coat. Does it hurt, slave? I prepared this especially for you. Why are you preparing this? I know you will have your period in the next two days. So specially prepared for you Thank you, husband Card snort I haven't done any hygiene at home. I came here to be a servant. I'm here to film. Not to suffer Blame Qin Xi That damn bitch Wait till I become famous and see how I deal with him Who are you Hello, Liu Sisi, the new rising star I am your fan I didn't expect to meet you here. You are Xinxin's sister. You are Qinxin's sister Qin Xin again Yes, I heard that you and Qin Xin have a bad relationship. Could it be that Liu Sisi is here to help Qin Xin tease me? I also acted in a targeted way If I offend Liu Sisi again How to mix in the future I have a little conflict with her. But broken bones are connected to tendons. I don't want to hear you talk about this. Since I can come to you It must have been investigated. I know what your relationship is with Qin Xin Where's Qin Xin? He stole my fiance If you can help me break them up You can set any price Or you like a guy in the circle I can get it for you. How about this deal? Do you want to do it? He stole your fiance So Liu Sisi and Qin Xin are not in the same group. What expression You are very happy that he stole my fiance Oh, no, no I am glad Finally someone showed me his true colors Both the Zhuang family and the Xu family were deceived by him. Qi Xin is just a lowly woman It's really despicable Wait until Brother Zhuang Ming dumps him I want him to know There is no good outcome if you offend me Um But I can't even reach them both How to break up their relationship? If you think about it If you need my help Call me anytime Can't contact Zhuang Ming I can only start from Qin Xin if Zhuang Ming knew that his wife was hurt by another man I don't know what expression it will be. Xinxin thought about it How does it feel? It doesn't hurt anymore, thank you husband. Now that he's awake Come on, I'll show you something. What? You will know after eating it Um What are you going to give me, husband? arrive husband Is this the dance room you gave me? Um I particularly like Just as you like My husband opened his hands Honey, let me dance for you. Not now You just got your period. No strenuous exercise Wait a few years and then you can show me the dance again. OK Um Xixi If I say I have found your biological father Would you be willing to recognize him? I already told you last time, husband. He may already have his own family I don't want to disturb his life. What if he didn't? If he has always loved your mother And I never knew you existed If he really loves my mother Then why is he with Qin Haozhong? Maybe he was deceived. What's more serious is He might be someone who wants to murder him. That's why he and your mother separated. To murder him Thank you Don't worry. This is just my guess There is no sufficient evidence yet My husband, you are so smart. If you dare to guess Then you must know something Will he look forward to meeting me? Of course. Our Xinxin is the best girl in the world Why don't you try contacting her by email? Husband, look I saw That's not right. How does he know where my school is? I also know the cafe around the corner from the school. Did he already know me? husband You must have contacted him a long time ago. Right? Xinxin, I'm not completely sure. I definitely won't let you do it. I can't bear it Seeing our Xinxin being rejected sad Well, tonight Just have a good sleep I'll take you to the cafe tomorrow. Um Xinxin Do you want me to go with you? It's okay. I can go by myself. He is my biological father. I still want to go see him myself. good If you encounter any problem, remember to call me I'll wait for you outside Um My husband is so nice Then I'm leaving Hey Xinxin Wait a minute Professor Qin's coat Am I going to see my dad? What are you doing with Professor Qin's coat? Next week during class Why don't you just bring it to him? You listen to me Bring it with you for a while and you'll definitely be able to use it Well, I believe what my husband says. Xinxin Can I sit down? Professor Qin, I have an appointment Xinxin, can I sit here? Okay, okay, you can sit down. Professor Qin returns your coat. Oh, this is all my fault. You look so much like your mother. How come I didn't see it? What happened between you and my mother? Your mother and I met through correspondence. Unexpectedly, something unexpected happened during that period. Your mother and I have arranged a meeting time. I didn't expect the school to suddenly send me out. I'm in a hurry I wrote a letter to your mother. Entrust Qin Haozhong to mail it Then reschedule the date I I didn't expect Qian Haozhong never sent the letter to your mother Pretend to be me to see your mother Why is he like this? It's my fault for neglecting it. Xiaoqian is a rich lady How many people rushed to get close to her? Qin Haozhong also used me as a springboard to get close to Xiaoqian I won't say anything because she is nice to Xiaoqian. He already had a girlfriend named Chen Lian Chen Lian is not Qin Xiaoli's biological mother Then what I was young and energetic then. I beat Qin Haozhong violently He felt resentful Before I explain all this to Xiaoqian He asked Xiaoqian out and drugged her Thanks to my timely arrival Rescue Xiao Qian That day was exactly Chen Lian's due date. The hospital called Qin Haozhong So he didn't chase after her. So that night You and my mother How can I know That time I had you So many years have passed. Don't you know I exist? Your mother didn't I can't face it when I wake up in the morning I just ran away Then I left the hotel Another car accident I was in the hospital for three months. Then I heard that your mother married Qian Haozhong Before marrying Qian Haozhong Your mother also cut off contact with the Xue family. It must be Qian Haozhong He took your place. Mom thought The person he had sex with that night was Qin Haozhong I'm too cowardly. Your mother likes Qin Haozhong very much Qin Haozhong also married I'm sorry to bother you again. I heard your mother died during childbirth. I always thought you were Qin Haozhong's daughter. Unexpectedly Actually, you are my daughter. daughter How have you been these years? Xinxin My dear daughter No wonder the first time I saw you I think you are very kind It's all because of blood relationship. In these years in the Qin family Besides my grandfather being good to me My father Qin Haozhou He doesn't care about me at all Beating and scolding me I'm still sad I don't think I'm his biological daughter. It turns out that I am really not Qiao Zhong He also hit you He was the one who kicked me out of the Qin family. Throw me in the cemetery That night I just met Zhuang Ming This bastard I'll go settle the score with him No Since I'm not a biological child There's no need to hate him anymore. Now, as long as we are doing well, Star You are so sensible That's because Inherited the good genes from mom and dad I'll take you there in a minute. Need not husband Mr. Zhuang, thank you for helping me find my daughter. I only do this for Xinxin I know but I don't care why Without you, we wouldn't recognize each other. I'm still very grateful to you husband Don't be so polite. Professor Qin, we are a family from now on Dad, see you at school on Monday. Okay, I'll be there then Bring you something you like to eat, thank you Dad, please drive slowly on your way back. good Okay, I'll go first. It seems like you and your dad are getting along very well. My husband, I'm really happy. It turns out that Qin Haozhong is not nice to me Because I'm not his biological daughter. And my biological father really loves me Of course. We are so cute Who doesn't love this? husband Everything I have now is from you. Thank you Silly girl, we are a family I know you like Qin Xin You posted all these messages, right? Qin Jie What does this mean? I have a way for you to catch him. It depends on whether you dare to do it. Oh, I don't dare. Qin Xin is the cousin of Mr. Xue Everyone in the school knows about the Xue family I can't afford it Since you know he is from a famous family Then you should also know They care most about face and reputation If you can get him Maybe I can enter the Xue family. Don't you want to do something like flying onto a tree and becoming a phoenix? This is not good. There is 500,000 yuan in this card as a deposit I'll give you another 1 million later. Think about it When the time comes, I will have the money There are also people Maybe I can enter the Xue family This should be a win-win for you. good I see what method you are talking about. Grandfather Why My granddaughter is back. Calculate how many days it has been. Grandpa misses you Aren't I going to school? Isn't this coming back to accompany you every weekend? Ha ha Grandpa, sit down Hey Xinxin What do you want to eat? Anything is good As long as I can be with grandpa, I will be happy hahaha Only Xinxin has the ability to make grandpa so happy. You haven't seen it before When my grandfather chased me with a cane That must be because you didn't listen when you were a kid. Just hum If you could be like the stars It makes me feel at ease Why should I beat you? Advertisement Actually, today I came here with Xingxing There is one more thing I want to tell you Grandfather Actually, my biological father is not Qin Haozhong Not Qin Haozhong That's right Some time ago Didn't Zhuang Ming take his mother's belongings back? He found The person my mother dated back then was not Qin Haozhong Someone else That's right It was Qin Haozhong who replaced Xinxin's biological father Let Xinxin's mother mistakenly believe Qin Haozhong is his lover That led to a series of events that happened later. I think That's why When I was in the Qin family The reason why Qin Haozhong has always been mean to me It turns out that I am really not his biological daughter. Hey Xinxin Then who is your biological father? Qin Qingru That is the professor of literature in our university. Qin Qingru Grandpa, do you know him? I read his articles when I was young. Oh, he is a literary talent. Are you sure Qin Qingru is your biological father? Sure We have done a DNA comparison. Yes, it's him. Then why did Qin Haozhong take his place? If my aunt had married Qin Qingru I wouldn't have caused such a scene at home. You mean you found it among Qian'er's belongings? If I care more about his affairs Yes or no Our family wouldn't be like this now. Grandpa, this is not your fault. Blame it on Qin Haozhong Qian'er's belongings have been kept at home for 20 years If I cared a little more about her affairs She wouldn't have suffered so much injustice in the Qin family We weren't careful enough. No evidence was found at home. Qian Haozhong actually kept it a secret for 20 years Okay, don't think about it anymore. Even if you can see it with your own eyes Relics of Xinxin's mother You won't find any reversal. Uh Zhuang Ming He is trying to smooth things over. Grandpa brother Don't think too much. At least we have found it now Rather than being kept in the dark for a lifetime Bala, you two take Qian'er Qin Qingru Tell me more about what happened to Qin Haozhong back then. So you suspect Qin Qingru's car accident was not an accident. Um He did it on purpose. He wants to kill Dad. Hey, thank you Don't worry. This is just my speculation There is no sufficient evidence yet Who else but him? He was the only one who knew that Qin Qingru had had a relationship with her aunt In order to replace Qin Qingru That's why I acted so ruthlessly No wonder my aunt wanted to die. Must marry Qin Haozhong I was deceived. I said Qin Haozhong is not a good person. How could this concubine like him in the first place? I was deceived. snort Qin Haozhong I'll make him pay. Brother, I think we can't rush this matter Gotta take it slow If you have to do it, do it thoroughly We have to start from Qin Haozhong Find out He needs evidence to frame Xinxin's biological father. You have a point. People like Qin Haozhong Once you start, you have to root it out. Wife Don't you want us to take action against Qin Haozhong? Husband, I don't know I hate Qin Haozhong I hate that he can't keep our family together. I hate him for cheating on my mom. You want to kill my dad. But I have been in the Qin family for 20 years The Qin family raised me. Thanks What if Qin Haozhong really did something illegal? Then he should be punished accordingly. Do you agree? Yeah, of course. What if the car accident was really an accident? I guessed wrong before. Qin Haozhong He can only be regarded as a person with a questionable character. Then we can first put all these years You should return the money you spent at the Qin family to the Qin family. Let's vent our anger on Qin Haozhong together What do you think? husband Why are you so nice to me? Thinking about me everywhere You are my wife I'm not good to you, who am I good to? Let's take a break first. Have a cup of milk tea Lei Sheng is so generous today Oh wow thank you Star This cup is for you. Slightly hot, you can drink it How do you know I can't drink cold drinks recently? Maybe I'm more careful. Thank you It's my birthday tonight. I'll treat everyone to dinner. Okay, okay. Star You should also remember to come I will come today I'm going to transfer to another school after my birthday. I really hope you can attend I will send the dinner address to the group You are not allowed to be late for me. Okay No problem. She also said she was going shopping with Zhuang Ming tonight. Never mind. Let's do it another day. Happy birthday Thank you. Thank you. Eat and drink well This one is specially prepared for you You can't drink alcohol these two days. Yo Leisheng, you are so considerate. Take a break. You know your menstrual period. that is Why don't you prepare special drinks for us? Okay, stop teasing me. This is just caring for female classmates Thank you. Why don't you care about us? Come on, can we compare with Qin Xin? Okay, okay. Should we play games first or cut the cake first? Let's cut the cake first We'll play slowly later. I'll go to the bathroom first. You guys play first. ah Come Hello, who? Hello snort Star, are you okay? I feel dizzy and hot. I'll help you to rest first No need. I'll go by myself. You're already like this, and it's still so early We are classmates. Have another drink soon. One more The previous game does not count Let's play again How's this game? Let me shake first Lei Sheng drugged Qin Xin That glass of orange juice If I go in like this Not only can't help Qin Xin It might even startle the thunder and attack me. But let's go together Qin Xin's innocence can no longer be preserved. 1520 Haha You lose again Hello I want to book another private room. The one at 522 But we have more people Can you take me to see the space? You can follow me. This seems to be the car that came to the school to pick up information before. No thanks Oh that Do you know sweetheart? What's wrong I just saw him being drugged and brought into box 522 Such a cold man Xinxin, are you hot now? I'll help you relieve it. Don't touch me, go away Only I can help you now obedient Take off your clothes I don't want Don't blame me for being rude. Let me go Let me go Who are you to hit me? Who I am has nothing to do with you Dare to touch my woman Today I will kill you. I'll destroy his hands. And check the relationship between friends Dare to move your heart I made him have no place to stand in the entire Flower City. Let me go You go I'm calling the police Relax and be honest Heart Don't touch me Xinxin is me husband My husband, I'm so hot. Don't worry, I'm here I'll take you home in a moment. Damn if I was a step later Isn't Xinxin twice as much? Fortunately, when I offended Qin Xin before Not seen by this man How can Qin Xiaoli fight Qin Xin with him around? I'd better find an opportunity to actively show my good will to Qin Xin. The boss has solved it. The notice of investigation has also been sent out. I estimate that the result will be available in 10 minutes. good Where is Xinxin? All are under control in the box Why stop us? Let me out That's right, I don't tell you what happened. Suddenly broke in What do you want to do? Xinxin, what happened to her? Who are you? What did you do to Xinxin? You are Qin Xin's classmates. I am Qin Xin's husband When did he have a husband? Quiet Qin Xin was drugged when he was with you guys Does anyone know about this? Is he okay after being drugged? We don't know Everyone eats one We are fine with this kind of thing. Yeah, we don't know anything. I don't want to say I still don't know If it is the former I guess you don't want to know. This is the consequence of deceiving me Who is it that makes such a big show? We all said we don't know. We just don't know. We are all classmates Why should we harm him? Zhuang Group Zhuang Ming I think you've all heard of it. Did you see it? This is what happens when you drug your wife. Who else is the accomplice? Be honest and take the initiative to stand up Stand up for me Say I say But I'm not an accomplice It was the thunder. He asked me to guard the orange juice. Said no one is allowed to touch Then Qin Xin came in He gave the orange juice to Qin Xin. After leaving, he never came back Yes, yes, yes, Qin Xin drank orange juice Orange juice? I was just here. He Ping Take away all the orange juice He Ping and Qin Xiaoli have been targeting Qin Xi He might have been involved in the drugging this time. What did Heping want to do by taking away the orange juice? Does he want to destroy the evidence? Peace, peace He is gone He must have run away. Boss, when I came in, there were only these students I guarantee that no one escapes. That was before you came in. The person has already run away boss Could it be the female classmate who tipped you off? The boss has a girl who says she is the classmate who reported the news Let her see her Yeah Peace to him Peace is not your collusion with thunder Give Qinxin medicine Want to harm him Don't spit blood on me. I didn't hurt Qin Xin Hello, I'm the one who just came to find you to save Qin Xin You should still remember me I heard that the orange juice for Qinxin is with you. Yeah I just saw Thor drug him. I'm afraid it's been stolen. So I packed it up alone. You can check if there is any medicine in it. If I want to harm Qin Xin I won't come to you to save him. Did you hurt him? I will investigate If this weren't for me Zhuang Ming will definitely pay a lot of money to get blood But if there is Then your fate will be the same as the fate of this thunder. The power behind Qin Xin from Zhuangming Zhuang is really strong Hey Xinxin, don't move I have already asked for leave from your school. No need to go to school today Don't blame me for being rude. Let me go Was I drugged last night? It's all right. It's all over. I will take care of this matter. Was it the thunder that did it? Why on earth would he do this to me? There is someone behind him Who is Qin Xiaoli It's Qin Xiaoli again I have already left the Qin family Why on earth is she doing this to me? Okay, Xinxin Don't think about it. Let me handle this matter, okay? Thank you, husband I am your husband This is what I should do Qin Xiaoli, you are really looking for death Xianxian, come here What's wrong? Xianxian Who is that Zhuang Ming to you? He is my husband. Really? Your husband is so handsome. Last night, I brought a group of bodyguards to hold you Go directly to the box and find the person who drugged you He's just nervous about me. He Ping, thank you for last night Zhuang Ming told me everything. You notified me he It's just a piece of cake Classmates help each other Have you heard? That Leisheng has been expelled from school I don't know I didn't see him coming today. My gossip I guess he won't appear again. The director and the hostess can't come today Don't ask for leave early or late I'm taking a day off today. Everything is ready online The actor didn't come. director I think Qin Xiaoli and the female lead have similar figures. Why don't we let her order today's fight scene? Anyway, take a distant view No one can recognize the back. There's nothing I can do. Let her prepare. Xu Xiaoli, go get ready. Replace the female lead Yeah really Then I'll go get ready. Um I don't know if Lei Sheng succeeded. No news from last night till now Did you have so much fun that you forgot to report to me? Actor preparation action Save people quickly Oh my legs Oh, are you okay? Qin Shaoli, are you okay? Where is the injury? My legs Ahhh I should Go to the ambulance Qin Shaoli's leg is broken boss Qin Xiaoli's right leg is broken Send someone to warn her I will never dare to come up with new ideas again. It's not just a broken leg. yes Xinxin Dad, Dad I heard you were drugged by the beast from Thunder. Are you okay? It's okay, Dad. Fortunately, Zhuang Ming arrived in time yesterday. Hey, look at how Professor Qin is holding Qin Xin. This action looks so intimate. Could Qi Xin be tall and noble? Don't talk nonsense about Qi Xin. Her husband is a big shot. We can't afford to offend Mind your own business Dad is useless I can't protect you all the time Dad knows you won first place in the dance competition We still have to go to the market to compete? This is the document conveyed by the market. I got it from the principal and brought it to you. Dad hopes I can help you Thank you, Dad This way I can prepare in advance. good I'm so glad I could help you. Comminuted fractures require at least 3 months of hospitalization During this period, you should pay attention to diet Can't eat oily or spicy food Or beef or mutton Three months doctor I have a movie to shoot later. And there will be a dance competition in the city in a month. I must attend Dancing, your legs can even walk on the ground I can't do high-intensity exercise. Dancing is impossible Doctor, what do you mean? You said I couldn't dance anymore You bastard You are talking nonsense. I want to cross what's wrong with you What I said is the truth If you don't want a lifetime Shut up I want to cross What are you fussing about? I heard you yelling outside Don't you feel ashamed? Dad, this swimming pool I will never be able to dance again in my life If you can't jump, you can't jump What's the point of making so much noise? Okay, what's the use of being cool? It's not like our Qin family can't afford to raise a daughter like you. Even if you don't work for the rest of your life It's no big deal Then I will never be able to compete with Qin Xin again He robbed me of 20 years of my life Why is it that he should be punished? But why did the Xue family want him? Why did Lian Zhuangming want to marry him? Okay, you've been targeting him for the past two years since you came back. Don't think I don't know It would be fine if he was still in the Qin family. Treat him as you wish. But his status is different now. What you need to think about now is how to please him. Rather than offend him To flatter He is nothing but a man. I can warn you. You'd better put away your little thoughts The company's operation has been very bad recently. I suspect it was Zhuang Ming and his men who did it. If you don't want to go bankrupt Don't mess with him Bankruptcy How could Zhuang Ming do this for him? Who in the business world doesn't know Zhuang Ming is a cold-blooded lunatic There's nothing he can do. but Our Qin family is not so easy to be defeated The Ho Group is my old friend. As long as we continue to cooperate with him The Qin family would not be completely bankrupt explain What did you say Ho Group wants to raise funds Why Mr. He, what's going on? Why the sudden withdrawal of investment? Excuse me Mr. Qin, I have no choice. Xue's side puts pressure on I can only go Mr. He, Mr. He What the hell is going on with Xue's dad? What's going on? It's all your fault. You're a dead star. How many times have I told you not to mess with him? You just don't listen Now it's good The Xue family and the warriors united to suppress our Qin The family may go bankrupt at any time Since you walked in This family is in chaos. I really regret giving birth to you I also regret having an unfaithful father like you. Seven Immortals Why don't you disappear from this world? How was the Thunder incident handled? Miss Qin sounds in good spirits. It seems that the broken leg has no effect on you. You are not thunder Lei had some thoughts that he shouldn't have. My limbs have been broken Thrown out of Dragon City Doctor says Miss Qin is overthinking. You are not worthy to talk to our boss. I am Mr. Zhuang's special owner, Wang Hui Miss Qin, don't be afraid. I'm just reminding you Don't offend people you shouldn't offend Otherwise, it won't just be one leg that's broken next time. Boss, please have coffee How come you are here? Of course I want to give you a surprise. Then wait until I sign this contract first. Then you can get off work. No rush, work is important good Hello Xinxin, is that you? Qin Haozhong Thank you Dad knows he's wrong. Dad shouldn't be partial to you. Sister you Don't let your grandfather and Zhuang Ming In targeting our Qin Group You watch it Qin Haozhong I already know You are not my father Xinxin, what nonsense are you talking about? Even if you are angry with your father You can't deny your father. You don't have to lie to me anymore. I have found my biological father. You should know him too. So he has told you the truth. Do you care what he tells me? Is it because you have done something wrong that you are afraid? Qiqi, what nonsense are you talking about? When did I do something wrong? Even though I'm not your biological father But after all, I have raised you for so many years. You shouldn't attack our Qin Group. My parents can't love each other Isn't this the wrong thing you did? I was the one who replaced Qin Qingru. But I just covet the power of the Xue family. But the Xue family never gave me a penny. I didn't get any benefit. But that's it I have never treated your mother badly. Never treated unfairly Then you keep Chen Lian as your mistress outside? What's the point of raising Qin Xiaoli? Qiqi, why are you so aggressive now? You never dared to talk back to me before My wife dares to twist her lips because I give her the confidence What is your Qin Hao abacus? If you think Qin Xin is suffering in our Qin family I can compensate him. But we, the Qin family, are being annihilated. This is too much. And when my dad was around I have never treated Xue Qian and Qin Xin unfairly. He also gave the housekeeper's rights to Xue Qian. It's his bad luck. Let Qin kill him in his stomach What does it have to do with me? Qin Haozhong I want to let you know what it means to speak out of turn Now I feel I was too harsh Then I'll let you see for yourself What is the real emotional killing? Xu Qi is fine Your mother's death has nothing to do with you. Giving birth is a hardship every woman has to go through. related Your mother is suffering from blood deficiency. Death from cardiac arrest It's not because of you I'm not mad at myself Qin Haozhong did so many things wrong He did so many things to my mother. How could he clear himself so cleanly? Thanks Those who do wrong will be punished accordingly. Now the entire Qin Group is in dire straits. There is always a risk of bankruptcy And the evidence about your mother's death I already have an idea So don't worry. I am here husband Thank you Okay, that's right. Xinxin, we have been together for so long. You haven't taken me to meet your mother yet. We'll go check it out tomorrow I just happen to want to visit your mother. good Thank you for bringing Xinxin into this world. The rest of Xinxin's life I will take good care of her Protect her forever mom This is my wife Mom Don't worry Xinxin is very good I love her too You don't have to worry about me dying alone anymore. husband You haven't told me about your mother yet. My mother is a very gentle and strong person I love her very much He also loves me My mother wanted to repay the kindness of the crops. Just married to Zhuang Zheng That's my dad. But what did he get in return? In exchange It's just a family that doesn't belong to him. After my mother gave birth to me My dad got together with Liu Yuzhen If they did it in private, that would be fine. You have to do it in front of my mother. Is Liu Yuzhen also a member of the Liu family? What is his relationship with Liu Sisi? Liu Yuzhen is Liu Sisi's aunt My verbal marriage with Liu Sisi That is, he customized it. For It is to hold the position and front of the hostess of the dealer I He knew that my mother was the daughter-in-law who was married to him in a formal ceremony. But he just wants to come and seduce me Later, she insisted on having a big belly I ran to my mom to show off. That was the accident. That's why my mom accidentally fell down the stairs and died. How could he do this? This is too much After my mother passed away Zhuangzhuang married her and brought her home She fought hard to give birth to Zhuang Haozi When I was young, I was oppressed in various ways. Just to praise Zhuang Haozi The purpose is to hope that Zhuang Haoze Replace my identity as the boss of the banker It's a pity that Zhuang Haoze is not up to the task Can't support the banker So later he thought of another way. Let me marry Liu Sisi The purpose is to control me He overestimates his own weight What is he to me? Now the whole crop is under my control Want to control me mistake So this is why you don't recognize Zhuang Haoze A man born to control me Why should I recognize him? husband Don't worry Now I have I will be with you forever Thank you I love you Brother and sister-in-law How come you are here? I'm here to pay respect to my aunt. My mother doesn't need you to worship her. sister in law My husband is kind-hearted. Just let him go. It turns out that my sister-in-law's words are still effective. Sister-in-law, I heard that you and Qin Xiaoli have a bad relationship She came to my crew to film a few days ago I arranged for her to clean the toilet I'm letting you out Clean the toilet yes I seem to have heard that she broke her leg two days ago I can't dance anymore. I don't even know about such a big thing. He deserves this. Oh, that's what I said. It turned out to be my brother's handwriting No wonder Can you do something to my company? Who else but my brother? Still my brother Who can control him? Your own company I'm so happy to be caught and do something Well, didn't you say we should worship? Xiaoxiao, go quickly Don't dilly-dally My husband is Zhuang Haoze He seems to be your crazy fan Actually, you don't hate Zhuang Haoze that much, right? If you hate someone You won't say a word to him. But even though you acted cold towards him But there is still a hint of indulgence in it How do you know me so well? Because you are my husband My husband is a man who has a clear distinction between love and hate Liu Yuzhen did all those things back then. What does it have to do with a child who has not been in any accident? You are so cold to Zhuang Haozi It's also because he is Liu Yuzhen's child You don't want to be involved with him. That Zhuang Haoze Every time he sees you, he's like a mouse seeing a cat I'm obviously scared and afraid of you But every time I muster up the courage to approach you Next time, just give him a good look. This child looks so pitiful. How old are you? And call him a child Although I am not as old as him But I am his sister-in-law OK, I know. You are kind-hearted Then I will be gentler to him next time. My husband is the best Why Qin's stock price falls and faces bankruptcy Qin's president's live streaming sales turned the tide Live streaming sales Qin Haozhong still hasn't given up Still thinking about getting the Qin Group back on its feet Anyway, let him do whatever he wants. There are only two words left for him What Jail Come, let's have a good meal first Come cheers How's the investigation into the car accident going? This is a witness. But he refused to testify in court. Why didn't he testify in court? Because that year He probably benefited from Qin Haozhong So I kept silent about it. But There is nothing in this world that money can't do. If so, it means you didn't spend enough money. Honey, can I go with you? Of course. Xinxin, go if you want And I will support my Xinxin in whatever she wants to do. Oh my! I haven't eaten enough. You guys have fed me enough dog food. Nonsense Come eat, grandpa, you are too partial. Every time I say Look, Xinxin, please eat less. There's still one month until the competition. Be careful or your stomach will be like a watermelon I think your belly looks most like a watermelon Hum, I'm his coach, so of course I have to take care of him. Okay, okay, I'll let you go. Hey sister, help me! Hahaha grandpa heels hahaha Straighten your waist for me Shoulder to shoulder Going to the market to buy groceries? Feet, feet, feet straight Rest in place Thank you, I like you. What's going on? You said you would promise him Oh, sorry. I have a girlfriend If it's about money Then I'll give in. I wish you happiness Xinxin, isn't your husband the banker? Don't use me as a shield anymore. good Um He is actually my brother Your brother is not Xue Xue Your surname is Xue You are a family You two are a family. They all look so good Still so awesome Shhh This is our family secret. No passing allowed Don't worry, senior. We guarantee a tight seal Okay, keep training. Qin Xiaoli withdraws from the competition Our formation has changed You have to practice well. Boss Lady This shop is He Chong's business. My husband, the eyewitness named He Chong What benefits did he receive from Qin Haozhong back then? 5,000 5,000 20 years ago That's a huge sum of money. yes He bought a store with 5,000 yuan. And married a wife So according to his words This Qin Haozhong changed his life Otherwise Now he may not even be able to find a wife. There's no electricity anymore. So when Wang Tezhu went to inquire He was very resistant Then let's go find him. Will he cooperate with us? I said this There is no problem in this world that money can't solve Unless the money is not smart enough Boss, this is it Boss He Why is it you again? I told you what happened back then. I have no idea There's no point looking for me. Hello, Boss He My name is Zhuang Ming Boss He, my name is Zhuang Ming I know you often appear on the financial channel What do you big bosses want from me? I just run a small shop. I must come to you You must know my purpose. Stop giving me riddles here. What should I know? I don't know anything You guys go quickly Since Boss He doesn't know Let's talk about what you know. You have a son and a daughter, right? What do you want to do? I don't want to do anything I just want to discuss the terms with Mr. He There's nothing to talk about. Your son is dating someone. The other party needs a gift of 300,000 And asked to buy a house in the city center I think You recently made plans for your son's life It's quite sad. What's this got to do with you? Don't worry, Boss He Hear me out Your daughter was admitted to the first university in the north and south This is a top university. This student graduated from this school These are the future pillars of the country. It's a pity The tuition fee for this school is 100,000 yuan per semester. Plus your son's matter You must be under a lot of pressure. What about parents? Everyone wants their children to be well. I think You definitely don't want to drag them down because of yourself, right? What do you want to say? Since I dare to come to you Then you will have full confidence I already know Qin Haozhong gave you 5,000 yuan. That's why you kept silent about it, right? I have no idea what you're talking about Get out of here right now 2 million 2 million This is just a deposit As long as you are willing to testify in court for me I'll give you another 3 million afterwards. And help your son buy a house in the city center Where is all the tuition for your daughter? I'll take responsibility And she can come to work in my group after graduation What you said is true Of course it's true Actually I already have the surveillance video from that year. It's just that this era is quite old The image quality is a bit blurry That's why I need you to testify. but I have found the most professional top restoration team Repair in progress If the repair is successful I don't need you to testify. Hey, Boss He Qin Haozhong was breaking the law If the video repair is successful You just shut up. But if you're willing to testify Not only can you clear your suspicion You can also get a lot of benefits Why not? Okay, I'll go. The boss is awesome. I've been grinding him for so many days. He just won't let go The opening conditions are not bad. He just didn't agree In fact, he already had the answer in his heart. He just couldn't believe it. Wang Tezhu, are your words true or false? So From the first moment he saw me today He has already decided But he clearly resisted us at the beginning. These are just appearances. If he really resists He won't say a word to us. And during the few days when Wang Te was out investigating He must be behind it. Secretly investigated some things about my decoration group And the status of my village people in the business world And I understand the weight of this statement. So when he saw me for the first time This makes me feel safe and secure. So I agreed And the compensation I gave him was not low This 5 million plus a house in the city center And all his daughter's tuition That's 10 million in total. This is for the 5,000 people who are willing to compromise. Do you think he can refuse? Husband, you are right. Of course the most important thing There is also a word from our Xinxin that helps He wants his children to succeed. That would definitely not leave a criminal record for me. Oh yeah Husband, should we tell Dad about this? It's almost time Everything is ready All that's missing is a lawsuit from Professor Qin Just hand it over. But he always thought that the car accident was an accident. Now suddenly tell him Will he find it hard to accept? Don't worry, he's not as weak as you think. And now he has you He also knows this Qin Haozhong How have all these years treated you? Just based on this He will definitely sue Qin Haozhong to the end Thank you, husband Because of you I finally got my grandpa and brothers back. And a father who loves me so much Okay, as long as it's for your own good I'm willing to do anything The boss is in a good mood I'm almost full of dog food. Meeting today Relax, everyone. Cycad blossoms The atmosphere in the company is relaxed now. Isn't it? Last time I wrote a wrong word in PPT The boss wasn't angry. If it were replaced by the previous I'm going to be scolded. Remember to inform employees in each department My wife will have a dance competition in a month. Everyone go vote then Lady Competition Get a ranking A red packet for each person Sister Sisi You look so useless. You can't even do anything well. And I got myself involved Who knew Zhuang Minghui was waiting for the thunder at the door? I was going to succeed. Okay, okay, I don't want to hear this. I came here today to warn you. You should take full responsibility for this matter between you and Lei Sheng. Don't bring this to me. Do you understand? I never intended to expose you. You are smart. If I'm outside Heard some gossip about me I'll kill you first. By then, your legs Don't even think about recovering. Wait for amputation. Ah, I know. I heard that the Qin family is about to collapse Even though you are so useless But you're working for me. That's why it became like this Don't tell me you know me. Hahaha You are just trash discarded by Zhuang Ming Why do you look down on me? Ha ha Why do you all shut up? Why? Xinxin Dad Dad, why are you here so early? Aren't we meeting at 2 o'clock? Oh, I don't have anything to do today. I'll come here early and wait for you. I just bought you a gift on the way Do you like it? So cute I love so much Thank you, Dad Xinxin, you came to me today What's up? Dad, I want to tell you something. It's about the truth of the car accident 20 years ago The truth about the car accident Wasn't it an accident? Zhuang Ming said that the time of the car accident was too coincidental. He suspected it wasn't an accident. So I investigated. I didn't expect to find out something. What did he find out? The surveillance footage of the street where the car accident happened Damaged by human Although I have found the most professional person to repair it But I can no longer see the license plate or the people in the car. But what is certain is that That car is heading in your direction. Of course, this doesn't prove anything. It means he found the witness of the car accident. He saw who was in the driver's seat. Who is Qin Haozhong Huh, that's what I said. There is such a coincidence Qin Haozhong, this bastard Dad, don't get excited. Now we have solid evidence As long as you point to the complaint Qin Haozhong can only spend his whole life in prison Qin Haozhong, this bastard Bad things He should be punished accordingly. He pretended to be me to meet Xiaoqian After I found out, I actually drugged Xiaoqian If the plan fails, you will kill me. Completely impersonating me You broke your leg in a car accident. Qin Haozhong got what he wanted He will definitely attack you a second time. How can there be such bad people in this world? I will never let anyone go. I'll see Su Zhuang when I get back husband Look, this is a gift from my father. Just as you like Oh yeah How was your conversation with Dad? Dad didn't kill him because Qin Haozhong wanted to Feeling angry More because of his purpose of doing so To deceive my mother. Dad really loves Mom. I love you too Qin Xin, you ungrateful wolf Die a bad death You will die a miserable death. Do all the bad things A life sentence would be too light a punishment. He should be taken out and shot. Qin Haozhong My grandfather has been taking care of me in the Qin family all these years. You have no right to scold me. Besides, the Qin family has paid me alimony for these years. I've already given it back to you I don't owe you fart You paid off your in-laws and bankrupted them all I don't have a penny now. If you don't keep your mouth clean I don't mind Wait till you go to jail I'll find someone else to kiss you. The Qin family has provided Xinxin with child support over the years. I have returned all But I gave it to Grandpa Qin. What's the meaning Qin Xin was raised by Grandpa Qin This requires filial piety Of course, I returned it to him. Over the years Qin Xin's tuition and living expenses add up to 2.81 million I have burned it all. What Crazy, you are a madman. Why would he, a bad guy, want so much money? Crazy people are all crazy, hahahaha Qin Haozhong finally got the punishment he deserved Qin Haozhong was sentenced to life imprisonment The Qin family also went bankrupt The things he took away by all means Now it's back again Oh, that's right. Where is Qin Xiaoli? I remember he was in the hospital because of a leg injury. Does he know about the Qin family's bankruptcy? He should have received the notice by now. Okay, forget it. This just got resolved. Qin Haozhong Do you need to report this to your grandfather? Good Dad Come back with me. OK I just happen to want to meet Xiaoqian's father. Why are you chasing me away? What if I die after leaving the hospital? Miss Qin, your account has been frozen. There is no treatment fee We can't treat you. Please cooperate with our work No way my card can't be frozen I am the eldest daughter of the Qin family If you If you dare to drive me away I just call me dad Enough is enough, I'm going to fire you all You are still the eldest daughter of the Qin family. Didn't you watch the news? Your Qin family has gone bankrupt Your father was also sent to prison. Sentenced to life imprisonment Your Qin family has been prosperous for so many years. All by deceiving women. How dare you say that? What do you mean See for yourself Impossible, the Qin family is not dangerous. My phone Are you crazy? I'm going to find my dad Ahhh My Leg Doctor Save my legs Ms. Qin, face the reality. It's not that our hospital won't admit you. No hospital will take you in your current situation. I want to treat my legs I think you are almost a cure for mental illness Ahhhh Hello, Mr. Xue Haha, okay Sit down Although you were also a victim back then But as a man You are so useless My woman was taken away I dare not ask If you had dared to stand up Go chase Qian'er Things won't be like this now. The old man is right. I was too cowardly back then. You can't blame Dad for what happened back then. Dad thought Qin Haozhong and Mom were truly in love He doesn't want to ruin their marriage. But so many years have passed Dad has always loved Mom He hasn't got a family yet. snort You have been outside these years You really don't have a woman around you. No My heart is small Can only tolerate torment Why That's all In the final analysis This girl has a miserable life. We all say Qin Haozhong is the culprit But we are his relatives around him Aren't we the bystanders who pushed him into the abyss? Forget it. Let's not talk about this person. I'm getting old. I love sentimentality Look, I'm around now. Such a cute granddaughter Why Why should I be sad? alright You Take your father to see your mother Room, I think. He will be interested good Wife, what are you looking at? My husband, I saw a video This person looks like Qin Xiaoli He is Qin Xiaoli After the Qin family went bankrupt He's having a hard time. This is all his own fault. If it weren't for his evil intentions It wouldn't end up like this. Okay, stop thinking about him. By the way, there is a city-level dance competition tomorrow. How are you preparing? Are you nervous? It would be a lie to say I'm not nervous But I've been preparing for so long. I still have this confidence. Well, I will congratulate our little champion in advance. Um Hey, wait for me These are the dancing shoes I prepared especially for you. The material is also top-notch And its size and force point Perfectly fits your feet And the style is what you like I hope you can win the championship tomorrow when you wear it Thank you, husband I particularly like Just as you like Push all the activities for tomorrow to me. I'm going to be a judge in the city-level dance competition Please contact the organizer my darling You can't dance yourself What kind of judge are you going to be? If you can't dance, you can't be a judge Just do it if I ask you to do it. Why so much nonsense? Well, I hope you don't regret it. Qin Xi I'll show you tomorrow. How big is the social status gap between us? Who are you? Dare to snatch Zhuang Ming from me Next Steps We welcome the judges with warm applause. good good The first to enter was our popular young actress Liu Sisi Come to our competition today It's really exciting. The second is Zhuang Zong, who is very popular in the media The largest sponsor of this Welcome Mr. Zhang Mr. Zhang Third Place He is the chairman of our national dance team. Won the gold medal in international dance competitions many times Important Guests Teacher Jin Yue welcomes So Three teachers I also have a lot to say to our audience friends. Very honored I am so happy to be a judge of this dance competition. I hope the contestants do well. Sisi, you are so beautiful, I love you I have nothing to say I'm here to pick people for the company. Ah, so handsome Is it true that the young and wealthy president does not consider making a debut? Did you make as much as I do now? I have nothing to say I just know A member of the National Dance Company was originally here today. Be a judge with me. But I didn't expect that someone would replace me temporarily. Mr. Jin, please don't be like this. Everyone who knows me knows My personality is that I can't tolerate any sand in my eyes Teacher Zhuang paid more money Of course, I am qualified to sit on this jury seat. I don't know that some people are not good at dancing. What is the purpose of being a judge here? Is to evaluate people's makeup Or it plays a styling role Is to evaluate people's makeup Or it plays a styling role Teacher Jin Yue is not pointing at Liu Sisi, right? Teacher Jin Yue is so brave If there is something bad to say, just say it to your face. Never bend people behind their backs I heard that the one who was pushed away But he is the last disciple of Teacher Jin Yue. The future successor of Teacher Jin Yue ah Our teacher Jin is as humorous as ever Let's focus on the players. Judges, please take your seats. Joker Xue Joker Xue Isn't this our preliminary champion Qin Xin? Very popular Mr. Zhuang, aren't you selecting people for the company? Did you see any? Of course there is But the person I like I don't want to join an entertainment company. Mr. Zhuang, which one do you like the most? Of course it's Qin Xin Qin Xin Qin Xin Qin Xin Uh, although Qin Xin is the preliminary champion But I found There are many good players among the contestants. To be fair? Everyone can focus more on Other players Our game is now officially started Qin Xin Qin Xin Qin Xin Please ask the judges to give the scores A good seedling If you enter the national team training There will be great achievements in the future Another point is that I hope you won't be too proud. You still have a lot of room for improvement The first time I met our teacher Jin Yue Give our players such a high score Thank you, Teacher Jin Yue 10 points wow As for Si Sen, I think he can only get 0 points. How can it be 0 points? That's it, Feimo I think He can only score 0 points How can I give 0 points? How is this possible? This is not fair. 0 points What qualifications do you have to give 0 points Sisi, did you make a mistake? I'm not wrong That's 0 points Teacher Liu, I don't know where I dance badly. How could you give me such a low score? Teacher Jin also said this just now I don't have much talent in dancing. But he is still very proficient in styling Look at what you are wearing today. So exposed This is an internationally broadcast event. You thought it was your home. I'm wearing a dance costume. Is Liu Sisi sick? I don't even know the basic dance knowledge. And also came to be a judge It's really embarrassing. I want to turn against her, I am also Don't you think she was targeting Qin Xin on purpose? At the beginning, when Mr. Jin and Mr. Zhuang praised her She was very disdainful You are right. The organizer Ma'am, I'm done with this. How can anyone be qualified to be a judge? Oh, Teacher Jin Are you a professional dancer? Yes, you have your judgment. This doesn't mean my judgment is wrong. I just think Qin Xin is not good enough, so what? Qin Xing is not good If you can do it, go ahead. Hey Liu Sisi You're not doing your job all day long. Why are you targeting Qin Xing with your evil ways? You don't Do the right thing Why use crooked methods to deal with the situation? Zhuang Haoze, how do you talk to me? I'm your cousin. Sister Chao is coming Look What happened to my cousin? Hey, you're my cousin. I can't tell you Yeah Today I want to seek justice for my sister-in-law. You guys are a family now. What kind of sister-in-law is he? Qin Xin is my brother's legal wife Have a marriage certificate Legal and Compliance Why doesn't he deserve it? I am Zhuang Ming's fiancee He is a mistress. Who do you say is the mistress? Is it possible? Ah Zhuang Ming Zhuang Ming He is the super rich man on the financial channel. I have a strong aura. Just now I thought Zhuang Haoze was awesome Now Zhuang Haoze is like a younger brother in front of him Didn't you hear him calling him brother? He is his brother. Is Jia Xin Zhuang Ming's wife or his mistress? I don't know My name is Zhuang Ming My name is Zhuang Ming I am here with my wife to participate in the competition today. I don't think I was made so upset by my ignorant younger brother at home. Affecting everyone's viewing of the game I'm really sorry Brother, it was obviously Liu Sisi who started the trouble first Let me first answer what Miss Liu just said. Qin Xin is indeed my wife She is also the only woman I have ever recognized in my life. Our marriage is legal So I don't know what the mistress that Miss Liu mentioned is. Where did it come from this time? But there is an engagement in our family, right? If this Miss Liu insists on marrying into my family Then I am not the only banker. Why must you do this to a married man like me? It's hard to figure out And bullied my wife because of it People like you who behave badly How to be a public figure Who else is the dealer besides you? he I can't I definitely can't marry Liu Sisi She has a bad temper. Big heart but small eyes I would rather be single than marry her in my life You want to marry me but I don't want to marry you Don't forget we are close relatives. No matter who you want to marry It's not me anyway Today's game was ruined because of a personal matter I'm really sorry All the audience who bought tickets today The decoration will be fully reimbursed Wow good hahaha Please also note that next time Stop hiring these ignorant people. To serve as a judge If you fail to do your job as the organizer Then I wouldn't mind taking over the decoration. So domineering A proper overlord Oh my god Liu Sisi is a cat and a dog Aren't you afraid of being criticized? What are you afraid of? He is a pretend boss. After today's I guess there is no such person as Liu Sisi in the entertainment industry. So cool Wow, so handsome haha The organizer just notified that it has been cancelled. Ladies and gentlemen, our game today Temporary cancellation Event Date Postponed to next Sunday at 9 am Audience members who bought tickets today This ticket allows you to re-enter the venue next week at the same time You can find the decoration group staff at the door Receive fare compensation cut What is this? This happened on the live broadcast today I'm afraid it will be hard for Miss Liu to survive in the entertainment industry in the future. Teacher Jin, don't worry about this. I'm just playing in the entertainment industry After all, our Liu family doesn't rely on this for a living. Teacher Window, he really is Do you understand? Although I don't want to admit it But it is Zhuang Haoze heard it Believe it or not, I'll go back and tell your mother It's up to you. You've been complaining since you were little. roll Teacher Zhuang, you are related to Liu Sisi by blood. Then why didn't Zhuang Ming tell him? Hey, family secrets? Uh, Mr. Jin, I won't ask any more questions. Hey, let's go. Where's the director? This show is not being recorded anymore. How is my notification fee calculated? sorry It's not your fault what happened to your husband today. Why are you apologizing to me? I didn't think it through. Ignore the time bomb Liu Sisi I didn't expect him to run to such an important game With small daisy Today's game is live That scene just now But the whole nation has seen it. I didn't ask anyone to cut off the live broadcast Since Liu Sisi dares to make trouble Then you have to bear the consequences of making trouble When I appeared today It has already set the trend for entertainment So don't worry It won't affect your subsequent games. I'm not worried about him I'm worried about you Liu Sisi has a lot of fans What if his fans attack you? What to do then? My silly wife Have you forgotten what your husband does? The reason why this entertainment industry can work It depends on capital And I, your husband, am the capital Isn't Liu Jia also capital? If the Liu family can compare with the Zhuang family Then why would they go to so much trouble to seek marriage with me? She even wanted to break into the banker's house by being a mistress My husband is right. Aunt What's wrong? Didn't you watch the live broadcast? He scolded me in public And said our marriage doesn't count This marriage was decided by you yourself. He is going to marry someone else without saying a word It's your face that's being hit Their marriage The old man told me This old man agreed. What can I do? But I do this because of you. It was you who said that I must marry Zhuang Ming. If you want to marry Zhuang Ming, you can go and make trouble with his wife. I'm ashamed of you for this low-level trick. I just want to suppress him. She is the daughter of Xue family. Zhuang Ming's wife again What qualifications do you have to suppress others? This kind of petty tricks won't hurt anyone. And trapped myself in it Since we have to do Then do something ruthless Eliminate the root of the problem Aunt Qiao You mean Find out for yourself. Coming, coming Quick Shot Brothers I heard that you are Qi Xin's cousin. Is this rumor true? Really? Will Qingqing make her debut in the future? He became an Internet celebrity on the live dance competition Everyone has high praise for him. I don't know this If you want to know, you can ask him yourself. It would be great if we could interview Qi Qin Mr. Zhuang looks at his wife too closely We can't even get within a hundred meters of Qin Qin yes That's true Mr. Zhuang is a wife slave. Ah, this side This way Looking here Sisi Now the internet is full of your negative information Do you have anything to say? I have nothing to say I don't care what others think of me As long as you have a clear conscience, it's fine. Then you lost millions of fans overnight Don't you have any feelings? It's bound to be sad. But what if there are no fans? I'm planning to quit the entertainment industry Go back to inherit the family property Take a step back What if I quit the entertainment industry? I am still the eldest daughter of the Liu family This will not change Anything else you want to ask? Liu Sisi is so proud People have the capital to be proud of Didn't you hear what people said? If you don't become a star anymore, you can go back and inherit the family property. His fans are so pitiful. Just abandoned like this Qin Xi You stole Zhuang Ming and ruined my career. I can't forgive you This little girl named Qin Xin dances really well If she debuts I absolutely love her really Qin Xiaoli You can't stand on your legs for long. The hand is broken, isn't it? Breaking so many plates I don't want this month's salary. Sorry, store manager. The cost of these plates will be deducted from your salary. Useless waste What are you still standing there for? Hurry up and clean up Liu Sisi Qinxin Why can you live such a bright and beautiful life? son And I can only survive in this stinking ditch You guys ruined my life I won't let you go. Bye Bye lady I don't think I've ever seen you It is like this Mr. Zhuang has something to do today. So let me pick you up That's not right. You guys don't seem to call Zhuang Ming Mr. Zhuang. Cut the crap you Kiki Kiki Kiki Qiqi Zhuang Mingqiqi was arrested Ms. Liu The person has arrived How to deal with it Let him go You leave now I handle my own confidence ah ah Be honest You two finally fell into my hands. Qin Xian Didn't you think this day would come? Do you think the Qin family has fallen? You'll never see me again. But as long as you don't disappear I can't live in peace for a day Qin Xiaolin I don't know why you hate me so much When we were at the Qin family, you were the one who bullied me. I've never done anything to hurt you. You let me go you do not know Why don't you know? I tell you I'm jealous of you I'm jealous even though I'm the older sister But the Qi family doesn't recognize me Don't let me in I'm jealous, I'm jealous even if I kick you out But Song Ren still loves you I'm jealous of your strong background I can only live in your shadow I don't I never thought of competing with you for favor I never thought of letting you live in my shadow No Because you didn't That's why I hate you even more Why All good things are on your head I really tried hard But why is it all in vain in the end? Did you know What I hate most It's your innocent face. This makes me feel like a joke But you have a father who loves you Since you returned to the Qin family Qin Haozhong protects you everywhere My life in the Qin family was not easy Qin Haozhong He is just trash I thought I kicked you out of the house. I can live a good life. But I didn't expect You left the Qin family and became stronger So strong that I can't touch you Qin Haozhong He can't protect me at all Ha ha ha ha But it doesn't matter now. Because the only thing I want to do now I don't want to drag you to hell. If you dare to harm me Chunming will not let you go Chunming Do you think I'm afraid of him? I have nothing now The worst that can happen is death. But before I die I'm going to drag you to hell Qian Xiaoli, your enemy is Qian Xian. Can you let me go? I will cooperate with you in whatever you do. Help me kill him Let you go dream If you hadn't dragged me into this Will I break a leg? I became a rat that everyone wanted to kill. And you are still the high and mighty eldest daughter of the Liu family Why Trash like you I'm in the stinking ditch Crazy you crazy Hahahaha yeah I'm crazy I'm driven crazy by you. Qin Xiaoli, what do you want? I have money. I have plenty of money. I'll give you as much as you want. Let me go, please Do you think I'm stupid? If I let you go today Will I be alive tomorrow? Ahahahahahahahahahahahaha How does it feel to be cut off? Ahahahahahahahahaha My good sister It's your turn next. stop Don't come here, it's dangerous Don't come over If you come again, I will kill him. Zhao Ming, Save Me Qin Xiaolin has something to say Don't be impulsive Don't hurt her Okay, I won't hurt him. But you broke my leg How to calculate this account What do you want to do? Oh, that's it. You break another leg. I'll let him go, okay? Husband, don't shut up. good I promise you Don't touch him. snort I Spare a leg don't want Husband, don't As long as I break my leg You let him go right As long as you break your leg I let him go. I won't let you go Thanks husband Husband, are you okay? rest assured I adjusted the angle Not against the team alright Don't get excited husband It's Liu Sisi He was just Qin Xiaoli who hurt me They are in the same group And today it's Liu Sisi He hired someone to kidnap me. He is not a good person good We all know I have caught the kidnapper who kidnapped you. He has already attacked Liu Sisi it is known alright Mr. Zhuang Thank you Mr. Zhuang for your cooperation They handed it over to us. The law will not tolerate any bad guy. Looking forward to your results mom Does Liu Sisi's matter have anything to do with you? You really have strong wings. How dare you talk to me like that? Liu Sisi What does her own mistakes have to do with me? She came to see you that day Go back and kidnap Qin Xin You said it had nothing to do with you. I didn't ask her to kidnap Qin Xin You are doubting me Because you're my mother I know you too well snort In your eyes, your mother is a vicious woman. You are an unfilial son you say Are you questioning me on behalf of Zhuang Ming? All these years, everything I did was for you. Enough You're not doing this for me You are for yourself I'm just your shield. I can do it for your glory and wealth It can also be for the Liu family But you never do it for me Do you know why? Did I always want to be with my brother? Because I can be myself like him. Instead of being your puppet Oops, ma'am. Your mother's family called just now. The company's stock price plummeted I hope you can beg the young master more Let Zhuang invest 10 billion to fill this gap Otherwise, the Liu family will go bankrupt. You go down good husband The news said that the Liu family went bankrupt Um A lot has happened in these few months. Qin Xiaoli and Liu Sisi are in jail The Liu family also went bankrupt They deserved it. Oh, that's right. Where is Zhuang Haoze? Why haven't I seen him hanging around you recently? After the Liu family went bankrupt He went abroad with his mother. oh Sissi I want to discuss something with you. What? Xinxin I want to give you the best wedding in the world Would you like to I do husband I love you