A Family Ate 1 Year Old Frozen Leftovers For DC is a 45 year old man, presenting vomiting, and diffuse bleeding. He tells the admitting physician that a burning when he got to work that morning, and that very Earlier that day, DC was having adult children had been home for the holiday, day back to work and school, DC's wife, DC and MC were from a town where fermented corn MC had prepared a batch of these During preparation, everything was fine. The so, absolutely everything was no problem. She they were there for a year before she prepped The older son, Ace, really despised these noodles. texture. They were served in a sour soup that off-putting to him, so, during this meal, Sitting across from him, and the complete who loved the noodles. She loved to make wasn't having any of it. Despite being they were still children in their parents' when they were children. To SC, her And it wasn't only HER gain. The youngest, a college student and he intensely enjoyed the was really something special, because they were his share, but his parents kept giving him more that he almost choked on them. The breakfast But, finally, it was over. Holiday had come and DC as head of household left full and satisfied at such a fantastic breakfast. BC, the youngest, left to head back to his college Ace, had to head out back to his but not without making fun And finally SC had to go get ready for work happy that everyone enjoyed celebratory breakfast. And everything was great. While she was putting away the dishes, it was just some abdominal discomfort, but a her body, and she needed to sit down. Getting up, MC tried to wash the she felt her guts quake and shake, everything she had just eaten back up. the couch to try and relax because she Hours after eating his delicious breakfast, time to get back into the groove of things and he had been feeling great on the way back he started studying. But, the air in his When he started coughing, he felt something move Maybe something was stuck in his throat. He but then it felt like his insides and he could see the floor start to spin. On the chair, in a world of hurt, BC was this sudden pain came from. His head felt pulse of pain sent waves through his entire experienced before. It knocked the wind out At the office, sister SC was working. Sometimes, bowel movements. An awkward coworker, who the fridge to get some drinks. This particular especially when he would wear shorts to most of the time. But this time, she felt a It started in her chest, but it became a cough. But the more she became. And then her head started pounding. her legs felt weak. And then suddenly, they SC rocked back and forth to try to stave off At his studio, father DC was also and it was almost time for lunch. When he sensation just below his chest. He wasn't hard to concentrate. DC took a sip of water, a sensation rippled through his nose and radiated through his body as he suddenly felt On the ground, sweating. DC could only As minutes passed, he was able to gather try and empty his stomach in to the toilet, but and he's the first family member brought At examination, the medical team could see that for it, but other than that, they couldn't a blood test finds that DC has hyperglycemia. referring to Sugar, or Glucose. And -Emia meaning DC never got to eat lunch, but his most recent which were made from fermented corn, which are broken down to sugar by the body. the body releases insulin after one eats a meal into the body's cells to be used for energy. This noodles can't be the cause of his hyperglycemia. function. If it's not functioning normally, it presence in blood. Another blood test reveals shut down. Put together, this suggests that his A CT scan showed that small deposits of doctors were still able to speak with DC. He after his breakfast of 1 year old, frozen leftover they were no longer able to speak to And another blood test finds that he now has Proteins that you eat, and proteins from a get metabolized in the liver. In regular function, which is eliminated from the body through the proteins can't be handled normally. Instead of spills into his blood, it gets into his brain. as he becomes unconscious, but In the bed next to DC was another newly admitted doctors about a sudden onset nausea, vomiting, a few hours after eating one year old, frozen liver and kidneys are shutting down. In an intense the hospital. The floor would spin every time what else was happening. The doctors thought patients came in around the same time with the A third patient was admitted and placed who also presented with sweating, palpitations, revealed the same liver dysfunction like the to the doctors that all of this emerged within noodle breakfast with her family. She could say here where one of the doctors really noticed the although it was a very common one. They same time. At this point, none of them could because they were all incapacitated. This rapid couple of hours not only gives the medical team gives them reason to suspect a potential outbreak so that they can alert the public that The fermented, sour soup corn noodles suantangzi (Suan Tang Zi ). Mother MC had following the traditional process. When had also eaten it, and nothing happened. it was defrosted and prepared this Food is frozen because the zero-degree temperature causes spoilage, allowing us eat the food at eliminate these microbes-- if they were they're still there, during the freeze. Food poisoning can cause stomach of the body on the order of minutes But food poisoning isn't sudden kidney and minutes to hours after eating the food. It's very this quickly. This rules out an meaning that a toxin, or a And it's involved with the noodles when they But it's not just their kidneys and because DC, BC and SC all have become unconscious. Just before one of the family members had fallen were going to the hospital. No one else could be In a rush, Ace left work. He only expected the one to the hospital, he got to the department. her suspicions were confirmed-- everyone almost his entire family was here. Given that that morning, it prompted the doctor to give At the local office, investigators immediately they were able to get samples of the exact noodles that these were homemade, it gave them some have been distributed more widely. But that contaminated ingredients used to make In the hospital, Ace was in disbelief. But it year old woman was admitted to the hospital, with before she fell unconscious while receiving do. His entire family was in this room, just hours The liver is one of the largest organs a substantial percentage of the it at any given time. It's one of the body because it chemically processes meaning that it needs a lot of energy. Do you remember DC's hyperammonemia? It proteins into Urea anymore, leaving to perform this conversion, but because then we could say there might be something When DC, BC, SC and MC all presented to But hours after being admitted into the they all have hypoglycemia, low sugar presence cells to make energy, and everyone's blood sugar aren't performing critical functions that require Well, human nutrition is made of Proteins, and Fats. These all get converted that every family member who fell ill is having are also having problems with CT scans of everyone's abdomen at admission, liver. The liver tried to release sugar because the body thought the cells needed to produce more energy. process proteins anymore. Ammonia spilled brains. And when the body tried to use fats to flooding the cells, all of this happening liver. This gives doctors and public health The mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell. energy through a huge series of chemical differences. Because this process is so long and there's high potential for exogenous substances entire process. For example, cyanide shuts down starving cells of energy. Aspirin in very large preventing the final step of energy production. among other ailments known as Valproic Acid, energy in the mitochondria, and causing fats substances were in the fermented corn noodles When the 4 family members presented to their stomachs. At the time, they weren't sure that could possibly mitigate some of the issues examined that fluid and compared it to collected at the house. And what they found, One bacteria that can appear on corn is Burkholderia gladioli. It's found in soil. Investigators didn't find this bacteria because the noodles were cooked. And cooking kills on these noodles at some point after they were Because on the surface, they detected something when it's on fermenting corn. This toxin is doesn't smell, and it doesn't change the color of this toxin shuts down all the organs and then the brain, while causing permanent this toxin was found all over the noodles, and it DC, BC, SC, and MC in an amount 33 times the known At this realization, doctors and public about how these leftover noodles were any answers from her, because she was Bongkrekic Acid doesn't interfere with energy Triphosphate, the molecule that cells use for is so delicate, that there's a different toxin side of the membrane. The buildup of ATP inside and confuses the body, thinking that there's no just can't be released. This disruption of normal manifested as fatty deposits on CT scan, but shutting everything down. Cells can't perform any But why does Burkholderia gladioli make Bongkrekic chemical structure, Bongkrekic Acid looks like a fat. Corn and coconut contain very specific fats. When Bukrholderia it takes these fats, and naturally starts to some anti-fungal properties that eliminates but the side effect of eating this would has been known for hundreds of years. In Indonesia, a popular dish known as Tempe but a variation known as Tempe Bongkrek is during the economic downturn, people started coconuts, rather than buy it prepared from in preparation would manifest as a fatal food that 2 Dutch scientists set out to examine a bacteria named Pseudomonas cocovenenans had made 3 different chemicals, the most When the genes of Pseudomonas cocovenenans were renamed to Burkholderia gladioli pathovar on plants, and in soil, but Soy Bean Tempe, and because none of these have the same fatty acid gladioli and preventing the production have come out showing a possible association and wet rice noodles. Because Burkholderia these mushrooms and certain rice can have some of the same and toxin production, but this is likely very pasta can grow a different bacteria named Bacillus called cereulide, which directly disrupts energy While the Indonesian poisonings DC, MC, BC and SC's corn-based dish case Mozambique, a woman had brewed a corn-based, attendees. Before the funeral was over, 267 of abdominal pain and malaise appeared within and abnormal posturing preceded death in 75 delivered it at 6am before the funeral and at 2am the following morning, she was found casualties. Post-Mortem analysis of patients that parts of their kidneys, stomach and pancreas and their brain had swelled with so much fluid and fatty deposits had formed all throughout their cellular energy release due to a toxin. The Ammonia from the Liver, it appears it was damaged shutdown happened on the order of hours after BC and SC after they consumed their 1 year old, DC, the dad was the first to start his posture because more abnormal, and the medical team wasn't There's no antidote for Bongkrekic Acid Poisoning. the family's symptoms. As best as the medical team consumed was so far above the known lethal dose, In America, despite growing and consuming so much drinks. Nor do we have very many popular fermented are homemade. However, Burkholderia gladioli known to infect humans, often in the setting of patient has a genetic mutation that causes their body. Analysis of Burkholderia gladioli pathovar all continents contain the gene that produces coconut be fermented anywhere on And it still happens today. In Taiwan, in 2024, from a restaurant where 36 people got ill. the presence of Bongkrekic Acid. A with the toxin that resulted in at least 5 processed in a way that where Burkholderia When public health authorities responded they quickly found the Bongkrekic Acid of this particular case instantly reached all production was banned in 1988, but it doesn't still is. They can't stop local people from doing suantangzi production, can still often local dish, and enforcing any possible Whether or not you come in contact please be careful with frozen leftovers. just want to remind you to be safe with the within 3 hours. Don't leave food in days. Frozen foods can still go bad. And when and your hands are clean. Sometimes but rather toxins made by the microbes that And if you do come in contact with fermented corn to make sure they were made by an experienced At autopsy for DC, MC, BC and SC, with Bongkrekic Acid poisoning: and red and congested organs with because the toxin shut down all energy release and ending with this outcome. Because Ace frozen, leftover, sour soup, fermented corn noodles Thanks so much for watching. Take