[phone ringing] -Good boy. My Corgi, Ace, He loves to play He likes to play too much. It's hard to keep him still. He was outside playing with my and she said, And I said, well, She said, I don't know. -Hey. -Hello. How are you doing? -What's up, Ace? -What's going on here? -He's been limping -Oh yeah. How long have we been lame? -A month and a half, maybe. -Okay. Let's get on the table -Okay. -Now did you -He was outside playing ball. -So I figured he -Yeah. -But when it didn't -My hope was sprain, strain. But if it's been a month and something more Can we stand up here Alright. We're going to see what It's called a Trying to see if they And you see that? -Yeah. I see it. -That's not normal there and we -Right. -So we definitely And not the most common but they can tear it. It's actually multiple strands Several strands will break, Once that last one go boom, that's why you get the yelp. And then it's a complete tear. So unfortunately, they -Right. If we don't do the procedure Ace is not going to He's going to hold it up and we definitely don't want that. So we need to do surgery, on all four legs. We got a slot today, if it's -That's great. Yes. -Let's go ahead and do it. -Ace and my granddaughter So we'll have to do what we so he can get back out and -Come on, big boy. -Say, we'll see -Bye! -Bye! -Hey. What up, Bear? [meowing] The worst kept secret in this treats near her station and she feeds Bear, an office cat. And we all know Bear Andrea got you spoiled. -Andrea still -Yes, she is. -Andrea! -Y'all just let -I thought we had a no -He said, come here, Bring it here. -Hey. -It don't even make no sense. -He didn't have And then check this out. -For urinary health? -You know what, Michelle? -Two bags of treats? -Y'all just let him go You know what? -You get up and do tricks, -They better stop messing [meowing] -You think the way Andrea hers instead of -She might as well take care the employees -Bringing your pets to work, I It's definitely a better a scooter or getting free food. -Especially one that you take -Hey. I guess Koi and Ghost Well, I've got to Why don't you ever bring -Few too many treats. -Just a few too many treats. -Okay. I'm sorry. [Narrator] A ball python named -Diesel's a big boy. He's about five and So his name fits, because I think of a big Mack truck. On a good day, he He likes to explore. But we're concerned today. -Hey, what's up? -Hello. How long have -About three months. I'm a first time -Okay. But the last week, he's He's not moving around a lot. He won't sleep in his hide -Uh huh. -His tank normally stays 90 degrees and he has a -Okay. Have you noticed him keeping -A little more than usual. When was the last -Uh, Friday. -Okay. I see some bubbles. Don't like those. He has some fluid in I feel like he has an -Okay. -I just want to make sure pneumonia or anything. -Okay. -Okay. -I definitely want to take a at the lungs. Pneumonia is -And this way. -It can often times be fatal. -Had to get him -Ever seen a snake x-ray? -This stuff here, definitely Cause that's poop. -There you go. -Okay. -Air shows up black, But it's getting a little cloudy We're starting to get -Mmm. -I think I'm going to nebulize show how to give antibiotics. -Okay. We'll come get -Okay. -I want to make sure Hopefully this nebulizer allows it to breathe a him some antibiotics and -Okay, hey. -Alright. What I want you to do is to First third, the middle -Okay. The last third is where you -Okay. -Go into the muscle. -Uh huh. -And then you're going And inject. And you're going to have to do -Thank you. I'm just hoping for Diesel to for my daughter's sake, because it's her snake and Come on now. [barking] [Dr. Qindasi Silva] [Narrator] Dr. Silva assists ACL surgery. [Dr. Qindasi Silva] What's the [Dr. Terrence Ferguson] -ACL jokes. What is the best -They're very funny. -Fun knee. -She is. -Throwing me off. I love that one. Alright, doc, ACL is complete. -Thank you, doc. -Cool. Doc did a fantastic job. She even had good dad jokes Now they're getting Once we wake up from surgery, [Dr Terrence Ferguson] Hey, hey. -How you doing? -Great. We have a bandage on. We have some medication going pain meds and we have some -Okay. -So, once the bandage is off, -Okay. -We're not going to until those staples come out. -Okay. What we're going to do is the bad leg on the inside. And we'll start about five And we'll work up till Hopefully, three months and -I hope so, too. It's going to be Maybe three to six months. But I have no doubt that Ace to go in a few months. Everything good. -Well, alright. -Alright. Thank you. -Thank you. -You, too. Thank you. -Now it's just recovery It's like sticking a Ooh. -Yes. -I'm hoping his healing will months, he'll be able to I'm ready, if you're ready. -Yeah. -I'm just thankful that I get the surgery done. Thank you. -Hold on, buddy. It's okay. [Narrator] Animal rehabber, Critter Fixer with a -Draco is a wild wolf that he is dragging his back legs, You can do it. My hope is that we can give and make sure that Hey, it's alright. Hey. -Hey. -Stay back a minute, so I can -Okay. -Mmm hmm. This is the first time we're taking him into -Okay. I've seen a few wolves, definitely not in the clinic. So, I'm not sure Hopefully this baby is nice we can get done what How long have you had him? -I've had him for -Mmm hmm. But at one point, he was And then people must Humane Society took him in. They were going to put him stand or walk. -No wounds or -Nothing. But I got him I have him in -Mmm hmm. -So he can get up and But when he goes to I mean, he gets -Does he ever yelps? -No. But you know, -He just acts weak. -Alright. So first thing, we I need to see if -Yeah. -Okay. I'll meet -Outside. -Level of concern is pretty Because this baby has to be mobile, to have a normal life. -Come on, Draco. -Oh, he's real weak in He has no problem -No. -He wants to run. -But that back end -He's got the will to live. -Draco is very weak in some assistance. At this point, I'm not neurological going on. We're going to have to -Yeah. -So they can take some x-rays -Okay. -Let's go pull up -Alright. -Hopefully it's not something be good as far as If it's something with hip things that we can -It's okay. -But we just have to figure out Give me like a full spine, all -Okay. -Uh oh. Mmm. -Uh oh. -Wow. -Kind of close to -Yes. That's not good. [Dr. Terrence Ferguson] Pretty [Paul Johnson] -Because the spine's this way. Yeah. He did get shot, It wasn't like a riffle. We can see here where And it is in the area of the possibility that this But I don't really know weakness in the hind end. I would think if that was have other problems. We look at the x-rays here, how well these balls It doesn't fit all the And this one's even less. Now I'm checking the joint down on the hips and I'm fashion, to see if I get And it's clicking The ball is a little So we do have hip dysplasia. Those hips are bad. Whether we can regain function going to determine the We do have hip dysplasia. -Okay. -Have I seen worse? Yeah. But Draco was shot -He was shot? Now the pellet is -Really? -But removing the pellet in Going around a spinal cord, cause more harm than good. It's not definitely We know, because we -Mmm hmm. -It could be so close that swelling, that's -Right. Right. Right. -So if we can help with the -Right. -Comes off the spinal cord, -It's very overwhelming It's not something -The only option that we pain anti-inflammatory Hip-wise, dysplasia-wise, inflammation there, too. It's not going to make but it'll help us -Quality of life, -I don't think he's I just think he's just... -Okay. That's why we're going to put pain medication. And I think we at -Okay. -We're going to give an Okay? -In this case, we have to We know we have hip dysplasia. So we're going to treat that pain medication. But also we're helping the If we can get this then we'll regain function -Am I going to be -Nope. You're going -Okay, cool. -Thanks. -Dr. Ferguson has given us hope The medication hopefully is and some of the -We got you, bud. -You know Cletus? -This is Cletus, He is sweet as pie. Say, hey, Cletus. Dr. Haider, come here. -Oh, no. -Oh, no. What's wrong with Cletus? -Cletus is mine. -Oh, he's the -Yes. He's pretty cute, huh? -He is cute. -He looks like a -I think so. -Cletus is super-fast. -Where'd you pick him up? And they're like, what are We can't sell him. -Nice. -Cletus, you couldn't have -Right. Mmm-hmm. [barking] [meowing] -Good morning. I recently acquired Come on, Wilbur. I did originally think But after spending some turns out she is a girl. -Said you was out -I thought it was bring -And so you brought a pig? Her name is Wilbur, like -Yeah. But it's a girl. -How did you -Well, it came -And let me guess. There's something -Lucky guess. There is She's got some extra friends. -I see. It looks like -Yeah. -Lice can cause a lot of Scratching. You can see the hair loss. -I gave her a bath and -Okay. I'm going to get rid -Alright. One of the big benefits of that I know Dr. Hodges all of my animals. First, you've got to -Oh, we're going Hey, calm down. -Everybody knows that -Hey, hey, hey. -Hey! Wilbur, these hands are -Wilbur is very, very excited lost a finger today. -Alright, Wilbur. [squealing] -All done! -I've still got my finger, take a couple of em. But those lice should be dead -She is upset with you. Come on. -Hey. -I've got a dog that's been in -The fact that it's been -I'm heavily concerned, Bren's first litter and I was No puppies were coming and this is not right. -Alright. Go ahead and get Let me see what I got. -Alright. -I don't want to lose my baby. I know that things I'm concerned about -Alright. Big puppies, too. One in the cervix. I hope that one's okay. We need to get these Any time you see one that you always worry if that So let's get to surgery. -Alright. Yes, it's okay. There you go. We're going to Yes. -What you got, bro? -Yeah, she's got One coming up in the cervix. I'm hoping that -Okay. Well, I'll -Okay. -That'll work. -Y'all ready? [Dr Terrence Ferguson] it's always all hands on deck. -When a puppy's trapped in that this puppy is suffocating But it's also blocking the other -Which is why it's important to possible, so the other babies for too long. -Alright, Dr. Hodges. -How many puppies? -I didn't even count em, but -Alright. -Typically you don't bigger dogs like this. However, this dog has and it's kind of like a train. And then the engine The rest of the train -Got warm towels? -How are we sounding? -Alright. -Yeah. Go right ahead. -Alright. -All of the puppies should be sacs within the uterus, Now I know this is your first please listen to Jordan. -Don't touch his glove. He's going to drop You've just got to catch it. -That is a big puppy. -Alright. Wanting him to make a little noise. -Okay. -Make sure there's no Just kind of dry it Keep drying em up there. -The next will come out. I'm gonna send the -Not this one? -Alright. -This next one is Get that one to Ferguson ASAP. -That one don't look too good. -Oof. Yeah. All this green The sac had already opened up. Meconium staining is actually that the pups pass in utero. If it's aspirated and we don't cleaned out in time, it can which is why we need as quick as we can. This was the one that -Hey T, this runt ain't Coming your way. -Alright. Trying to get these lungs to breathing going on. Come on, dog. We're trying to get some This one right here -Come on. -Here's another one. I ain't hearing a -This is the baby This baby came out Right now I don't heart rate or anything. Hopefully we can -Just make sure they get warm. -Make sure the mouth is no fluid there. -Another one. We're going to need -Andrea. -A lot of babies. -Got another one. -Keep working. Keep working. -I'm working on mine. -Get ready to get another one. -You got one more coming. -Come on, buddy. Oh, I'm getting so It's ridiculous. -Come on. Come on. -Keep trying. -Okay. It gave me a little something. [crying] There you go. -I hear some crying. -Oh, that one made it? -Yeah. -We got that baby pulled and we're doing well. -I like that. -You got any -I got one crying a little bit. -Made a little noise. Everybody going Still working on this one. -The small runt is the one -Yeah. -There's another one. -Oh, thank you. -We need more hands over here. We've got more -Talk to me, T Flea. -We've got everybody, except the We're not getting anything. -We got another one. -I think I have -Michaela, that's it. -Mama hanging in there? -How are we looking out there? -We had ten total, nine going. -Nine going. -We couldn't get -Okay. -We never want to lose any and that really makes me feel new babies in this world. -He moving again. -Oh yeah. Look at. -Aww. -I'm putting my We are good here. -There y'all go. -It's always great when I mean, these kind of Hey, mama. Hey, baby. I know. -They're all kinds of colors. It's emotional The joy and and the beauty. I mean, it's just so amazing. Come on, open your mouth. I did not know them I knew they were in There were so many of them and I am so excited. Oh, yes. Girl, you've got babies. -I'm going to let -Thanks. [puppies squealing] -Tre is very nosy. We got Tre, my pretty spur of the moment. It was at a fair. -Tre is extremely nosy. Whenever you come into the doing, peek his head up and We just need to get -Tre Day. -Hello, Dr. Hodges. -How long have -Seven years. -And we wanted to make -Okay. Hey, bud. -Crickets and. -And like little -Okay. Just wanna see... This is not a This looks like a -Yeah. -Give me one sec, okay. -Okay. -Paulie, can we -Okay. -Tre is presenting with is starting to A lot of times this Sometimes too much nitrate. Sometimes bacteria it just become unhealthy. -Right here on our scoops, shedding going on. We see shedding, but So I'm just going to clean that -Do you have a I just want to see the water. How often do you -The past 20 months, -Uh oh. -I didn't do a -Yeah. Okay. So not. I actually have I get it. But I do think the water The stagnant water -Right. -And all those things get in -Okay. So like change his -I would. If left untreated, this Shell rot in a It can lead to septicemia, bacteria getting within the real serious disease. If you can get like -Okay. -Okay. I'm gonna show you how to put I think you'll be fine. Alright. -Okay. -We honestly didn't He would have scales fall off, and we just thought So we thought he was healthy. -I really want you to get -Okay. You won't hurt him. -It's my son. -I got you. The Silvadene cream gonna get rid of secondary infection. This shell gets back -Also, what about -I noticed they were long. -And they scratch. Yeah. -Alright. -Be careful. He never got his -Yeah. Oh. -Mmm. I ain't never -Oh, I've. -Oh. -That's why I'm putting Oh yeah. So that kind of protects Paul. -Is he okay? It's just like a dog or cat. That's one thing about I didn't know Tre was However, you've got to So I definitely wanted to -Just once a day? -Okay. -I think in a few weeks, -Okay. -I'm glad we're able to find care of Tre and figure out I just want him to live a -See y'all later. -Alright. -Come on. -Who you think heavier? Look at it. -Drea, he looks -Come on, Bear. -Michaela, come tell me -14.7. -What do you think he weighs? -18 pounds. -What does that say? -There's no way that -They're gonna try to -My man. -Tell me about this kitty cat. -Roman. -Alright. -Roaming around. I like it. -Roman's a stray cat that's for about five, six years now. And we've been trying our We've been feeding him looking so great, so we him for the first time He is positive for FIV. We're basically owners So, we wanna get care for him. We are not ready -I see why you fell for him. -Mmm-hm. He's sweet But he's not a well cat. -Yeah. You see how that skin -Yeah. -That tell me he's Roman did have an We got some Your teeth aren't very bad. But the one thing we wanna do AIDS status. -He does have FIV. -If he has AIDS and leukemia, But if he don't we may be able to bring Roman back So, we're going to Feline leukemia and feline diseases found most Unfortunately, They compromise and sometimes can lead to death. I guess the big thing now, clean up his eyes and ears. See what his white And let's make sure we Let's see if we We'll be right back, okay. -Alright. -I'm not hopeful of a clean to be able to see -So, he definitely lost -At least like -Roman, we're fitting to get Roman does look rough and he But instead of being this the under-cat. You want to root So, I'm definitely You got some blood on Roman? Paul's going to see exactly And we'll go from there. [Paul Johnson] -Alright, Roman, a little Oh, he ain't like that, huh. -Who you got here? -This is Roman. -He's a little dehydrated and I want to see what -Alright, well, you got Maybe he'll feel better. -I got some bloodwork -Roman, very rarely do you than the bloodwork. But hey, don't look so sad. Bloodwork ain't I'm really pleased with Roman's It's within normal parameters. Even though he I'm feeling good that eye or ear infection. His bloodwork wasn't bad, man. -That's good. -Feline leukemia I've cleaned his I've cleaned his eye. -Ah, that's much better. He is super-duper dehydrated. Just the keep him on his fluid probably need about 24 hours. -So, you all going to -Yeah. -Let him chill Yeah, hopefully he'll be -Thank you for trying. -You be good, okay. They're gonna try to I'm happy for him. Glad he's getting the And I guess we'll see -Hopefully be feeling -Oh, no you don't. -Get his head, baby. [Narrator] Diesel's owners are not back up to speed. -Hey. -What's going on? -I gave him three doses of genuinely acts like -Kay. -It's my daughter's snake and snake she's -Sound way better. -Okay. -It's all good. Before we had -Okay. -But it don't look bad at all. -Think mommy. -Maybe he's just -Yeah, let's go look just to -Okay. -I just wanna take a x-ray Diesel is totally fine. I don't see any That's what we want. -You can He was moving pretty I'm pretty sure he's fine. -Oh, that looks great. Yeah, that's These lungs. -Okay. You did a good job at home. Are we good to go? So... -Let me take a -I would love that. -I've got it right here. -I'm very excited He's sweet and I love [camera shutter] -Yay. -Tell him, thank you. [barking] -Hm. Bear. Bear just came Hey. Oh, you want to wear glasses. -Say, I'm purdy. -That's so cute. -It looks like she walked in just like... -Lazy. -Nothing. Don't say Little protective I see, huh. -What did they say to my baby? Ariana, what did -Nothing bad, was it. -Oh, he was just being lazy. And I was real...wasn't -He was. -Very distinguished, you -I like it. I like it. -Did he give you some treats? [Narrator] Surgery tech, Paul, brings in his own -Alright, doc. -So these the fish you -Yeah, it's a couple I've had these fish I actually rescued They have tumors. -Ooh, boy. -And one of in particular has It's like doubled in size. -Oh, yeah. -Goldfish are special to me long as I've had em and you've have like little They recognize me They know when And so, it's concerning. I got another one down there but he also has -Ooh, boy. Yeah, these guys are notorious Tumors of the nerve sheaths. It's a fast growing cell and and cause some major problems. -He has one almost in -Oftentimes it's congenital. Which means it's just -I was gonna ask you that I believe, are siblings or these masses on em. -Get em ready for surgery. -When you do surgery on different from doing surgery You can't intubate em So, we put The fish gills gets the kinda goes to sleep. Just like a person. -Guess we'll start We've done quite a Surgery there's always a risk. But it's a whole when it's your own fish. -Alright, fish, look Let's go down a little bit. -Okay. -I'm gonna use my I have a foot pedal. What this does is as I cut, it actually cauterize Paul is taking water, he's keep it breathing. I am starting my It's a big tumor though. -Yeah, I know. -It's attached to This is pretty bad. Just like with a human, And if you can imagine trying on your back. Hopefully we get this thing lose a lot of blood. Alright, one Wake this fish up. -The most nerve-racking part fish recover, because you can monitor But with the fish all you can and pray. -Come on fishy fish. Some good ole Come on fishy fish. Yeah. Paulie, you wanna -This is the one This fish has a And I'm thinking it's starting -I'm gonna try hand Ready for surgery. Come on, bud. Come on, there. Alright, Paulie. -We got it? Now, let's get this -Alright. Uh, we got a -Oh, man. -A fish this small -No. -Don't look too good. -Dr. Cook, got a bleeder! [Dr. Cook] That don't -That don't... -Cauterize it. Dr. Cook is a first here at Critter Fixer. She hasn't seen a So it's important that we Come on now. -Stop the bleeding. Got it. -Okay. -You want, you saw how much -Mmm-hm. -Yep. Thankfully the I was able to We're gonna move this fish start on another one. -Next take a look at this one. But what I'm worried about -Yeah. -Yeah. I found a cat in my backyard he had been swiping in And it was dry outside. So I know he had been -Alrighty. Dr. Cook, did you know I in fisheries biology? -Wow, I did not know that. -He has a open wound, so Go on... And look, good to go. -What do you think, having longer to recover? -As long as that gill is Alright, one last one, Paulie. -Yep. Now this one, I think, -Well, I don't really There's no tumor. -It looks good. -The fish are on I'm very relieved, see this particular You got four We'll get em in recovery an antibiotic injection. -Alright. It's definitely All surgeries are a win for your own pet. -Appreciate you, doc. [barking] [meowing] [meowing] Hey. Let's grab you outta here. Paulie! -Let's check Roman out, buddy. [Narrator] Following an dehydration, Dr. Hodges checks -Hey, Roman, how Your eyeball a Got his eye medicine. -Uh-huh. -But skin turgor still So, we're going to keep -Okay. -Get you good and How bout that, Roman? Can you get me And give Roman a couple treats, When you got animals that look best life in the world, They get to come in and get -He want some treats. -Okay. He like better? Okay, dang Roman. There. -Watch your fingers. Okay. Well, not too much. Alright, that's it, No. That's it. Paulie, you can put Roman up. It look like Roman has caught [meowing] You just do everything You know, you kinda throw hopefully they improve and get good quality of life. And just looking at Roman, just a good feeling to One more treat. [laughing] Roman. [barking] -Okay. My dog, Jyn, she's a puppy. She's just so She will get into stuff. If you leave something on pick it up with her mouth. She started throwing up a throwing up most So we brought her in today. -Hello, hello, hello. -How are ya? What's going on here? -Last week we think she ate a -Okay. My son couldn't get -Uh-huh. -He tried giving her a And then he couldn't find it. -So a good possibility. -Yes and then on Saturday everything she ate. She's still -Okay. You haven't seen anything in like we chewed it or we broke -I don't think so. -Alright. And then we'll go from there. -Yeah. -You're gonna go that way. -Yeah. There we go. Worst case scenario is that intestinal tract area and we have to surgically -Easy. -Best case scenario is but it's already passed it. -Alright. You see this grainy -Yeah, uh-huh. -That's stool and we can see back out like we probably got -Okay. -If something blocking blockage because we're -Getting, still getting. -It doesn't indicate It's still a possibility that in the stomach, so, I think Where we actually give a dye and we watch the dye as it flows -Okay. -So, leave the baby We're going to give this this evening, another in we compare all of them. -Yeah. -And that tells us whether we need to go in. -Okay. I'm concerned that we haven't And that it might be in her, and she'll have to -Make the magic potion now. -Hopefully we don't -If this barium pass through there's not a blockage there. -That's that good stuff. -Fingers crossed the -How you doing? -Come on back. -Let's look at -Okay. some barium that would show -Yes. -Okay, this is a few hours -Oh. -What we want to happen is through the intestinal tract. -Okay. -We took another Now it has moved and we can and heading out the back -Okay. -Okay. -Good. -So my thinking now is if it already went through. -Okay. -Or it didn't get -Good. Really good news that they didn't find So I'm just grateful that I the what ifs. -We got a couple -Okay. -We're gonna send home -Yeah. -A GI antibiotic and I'm with ya that we were feeding for the next few days. -Okay. -Alright, we'll get -Okay. -Alright. Thank you. -I'm so excited for -Come on, sweetie. -We had a great experience we don't have to come [laughing] -Alright. -She's happy to see mommy. -Let me know how If you need us, holler at us. -I will. -Thank you so much. [barking] -Roman, you want Here you go. -Alright, now don't -Oh, no, that's it, bud. [Narrator] Roman is enjoying day of recovery -Come on outta there, buddy. [meowing] Roman is doing really good. In fact Roman is doing comfortable with Sweet kitty, huh. Hey. Aw. It's only been a couple days bittersweet to see Roman go. -Where you treats at? I ain't never -Roman has become quite the Hey, Ari. -What? Hey, I need the whole Right now. -My fault...how? -Not me. -Guess who said, you know I ain't never gave him a [laughing] -You can't keep -Roman's I mean, he has such He even got Paul to come up Maybe me and Paul are the way she gives -Hey, man. -This cat has stolen I'm being honest. His hydration is good. He loves... -He likes you. -I don't know if it's me -Come here, buddy. Hey. There it is. [meowing] We have some eye Definitely make sure you As you can see he is -His energy's definitely up. -Roman is looking great. He's definitely got a completely than he had two days ago. I'm really thankful for that. [meowing] [laughing] -Roman is ready to bust and live a good life. He's definitely I'll always remember Roman. -Buddy. Pleasure. -Alright, thank you. -Alright, man, he He started to steal our Obviously you have to to work here at Critter Fixer. -No, you have to be to work here at Critter Fixer. -From Michaela sneaking in -To Jordan wanting to take home to her family. -And we cannot forget Andrea's -Nobody comes -No kidding, it's no joke how here at Critter Fixer. -Yeah. [laughs]. -Hi. [Narrator] Animal rehabber, rescued wolf, Draco. -Draco is our black He was having some difficulty with hip dysplasia as well as, Draco has a pellet But it's in a area do surgery to remove. We sent him home on pain medication. -It's alright, buddy. -Definitely hoping that Do I expect us to be up But I'm hoping that the a good quality of life. Alright, Draco, what -Doing a good bit better. -Oh, yeah, that's a We're still a little -It's improvement. -I'm amazed. Draco is really moving and I am pleasantly surprised. -He just looks happier to me. -Way happier than initially. -When we were back here last We were really And at that point I was really not going to have a good ending. -Me, too. I, I... Overall I'm feeling fantastic. This went from one of those have to put this baby down, to we maintaining So, my hope for Draco is that even more mobile and just live At this point we're But I only want to -Okay. -He looks happy. -Yeah. Good deal. -I'm really happy because Thank you, Dr. Ferguson. Dr. Ferguson's given me a lot capable of recovering from. I appreciate him He's so cute. That's a good Draco. Captioned by