After a long time, the morning sunlight came out. The forgotten presence of the sun In this humid and hot summer, I plan to change the kitchen layout and reorganize and reorganize the cabinets. This shelf was removed last time when changing the shelf on the living room table ! Now, bring it to the kitchen. Placing shelves in an L-shaped structure makes them both practical and pretty. I'm planning to place this resting shelf for a convenient kitchen . It's perfect. As summer approaches, the use of glass cups for juice has increased. Take out large and long cups. Take out the dishtowel. Clean it thoroughly with lemon disinfectant water. Take out Hyunseo's water cup basket and organize it in the bottom compartment. Large-capacity juice cups are placed in the upper compartment. Green cannot be left out. Ivy hanging from a cream sauce bottle! (*_*) Summer can be tiring, so let's reorganize the kitchen to make it pretty and convenient! Four long cups would be enough for a family of three, right? The cup basket is stored in the shelf! Since I use a lot of olive oil, I buy a large bottle, but I plan to use it little by little in a small glass bottle. In the upper section of the study room storage cabinet, there are resting props and materials for my hobbies. I take out the leftover fabrics I will use today. You can't miss a cup of coffee. I also take out the belt hook. I can't give up the atmosphere either. The sun soon dims, so I turn on the lights. I like this process of preparing before doing something. Adding warm colors to candle holders and favorite ceramic pieces , my journey begins. I'm going to make a clear summer item. I buy this fabric calendar every year. I'm going to overlap the front sides of everything I've used and sew like this. I hold on to the days that have passed, fill them with stitches, and think about them fondly. It will be a vintage style tea coaster. Flip it over to the hole you left and fill the hole as well. When drinking drinks with ice, a fabric tea coaster is good for absorbing moisture. Since this is a fabric whose wrinkles are attractive, don't iron it! Haha, when I put the cup up like this, it's pretty!! (*_*) Looking at the dates in March, it reminds me of things back then. Now, the sound of cutting the blue checkered fabric that will make summer feel like summer is like music. I think the purpose of making something yourself is not the result. For the joy and satisfaction you get from the journey! Despite the sloppy stitching and unsophisticated design, I often cherish it more than I would have bought it easily. ^^ In spite of the unusual weather, I fill the house with cozy time lighting candles and sewing . I made it quickly. Cha~ This fabric is a scrap piece of a curtain. The source is the utility room curtain. I cut off the bottom of the curtain to adjust the length. The sunlight in the kitchen is too hot, so I'm thinking of making curtains on the window. The bottom is finished with lace. An item that will make you feel refreshed even during the humid rainy season! Kitchen paper goes somewhere else! The fabric is perfect for display. I'm going to hang it with clips. I'm going to use a kitchen towel holder. It's convenient, pretty, and I'm satisfied. It's a big deal because I love cute things. Really. Haha, the harmony of blue check cloth and linen (*^^*) I'm also putting a compression rod on the kitchen window. It softens the sunlight. I plan to cover it only when the sunlight is very strong. It looks like a snowflake in midsummer. Wouldn't the kitchen have become brighter while maintaining bright light ? ^^ The wind is getting stronger and the dark clouds are approaching aggressively. I also made kitchen cloth with leftover blue check cloth. I also iron the tea coaster. It looks like it's going to rain at any moment. The living room has also become dark and it feels like it is already evening. It would be a good idea to replace the outlet cover. It has a cool and refreshing summer kitchen atmosphere. Now it's time to organize the lower cabinets that you've been putting off. This is a section where small home appliances are mainly kept because it is very narrow and difficult to take out . The bread machine will be moved next to the oven. It was difficult to find a rail drawer that matched the width. I was thinking about DIY, but I found the perfect size. Because it was adhesive, it seemed heavy, about the size of a bread maker. Finally, glue~ Carefully~ If you want the drawer to come out further, attach it a little further in the front~ Put some cloth on the floor. I put in all the small appliances I use often. Kneader and accessories Green onion peeler Hand blender Chopper One of the reasons I chose this shelf is because of the height that does not collide with the hinge. If it had been a little higher it would have caught on the hinges. Final confirmation! I will also check the pot storage compartment next to the hand blender (blender bottle) in the lower compartment and the green onion peeler, chopper, and kneader in the upper compartment of the mini rice cooker. I used an insert shelf to store it to a level where it wouldn't be difficult to take out. I emptied an unusable pot and created some space. A dehydrator, rice washing bowl, and large mixing bowl are also located in the lower compartment. I will also put a rail shelf in the lower cabinet near the counter. This compartment is the narrowest. This is a product with a different design. I purchased it because the width and width were exactly the right size. The drawer opens and closes more smoothly than before. The existing basket is convenient for the bottom compartment of silicone molds, wood and enamel bowls used for cooking . Bad and tray (for handling ingredients and oven) In the end, the sky is full of holes. Rain is a bit scary these days. This is now the lower section of the home cafe zone. It's not a drawer that closes slowly and automatically, so dishes are always pushed around when opening and closing. Even though I put down a non-slip mat. I don't think it will move if I install a compression bar in the middle. Like this. ^^ Small problems are being solved little by little. Now, in the next compartment, there are all the storage containers and bottles. If this space is full, it means that the refrigerator is empty! ^^; Under the insert shelf are new products, and in the front of the frozen container are containers that are still in use. In the lower section are lids and bottle types. These lids are also placed in the basket. If you organize the refrigerator when it is completely empty, you can create space for each person. You can leave it empty without filling it with something else. This is the horizontal width of the basket that can be used without disruption. The children's drink bottles, etc. were all brought out. This lower space is often almost empty. Try putting it in a basket so it looks organized even when everything is gone . It's the same product that I use as a coffee and tea basket, but I bought a larger size. Clean~ This is also the end of review and improvement. When making your bedroom, do you remember this table? These lights too? I'm moving it to the living room today. It's dark in the living room because there is only one indirect light. I don't use the main light in the living room. Because I feel sad, I put a vase of roses (artificial flowers) that have been dormant for a long time. Roses are pretty flowers, even as artificial flowers. Remove the table runner from this side table and hang it slightly over the light shade that has an opening at the top. The bright light coming out becomes much softer. The love for checks in our house is getting worse. In fact, a lot of children's clothes have check patterns. When you turn on the lights, it turns into a cozy home~ Cool snacks are a must during the humid and hot rainy season! Sugar substitutes and honey can both be used. Prepare a measuring cup~ I'm going to make my style sorbet. ^^; 100ml water (can be added) 150-200g sugar 300ml milk 1T agar Take out all frozen fruits from the freezer. Take out the silicone mold as well. 500ml yogurt with leftover lemon peel after making lemon juice Hyeonseo: Just one strawberry!! Put one in Hyeonseo's mouth. I'm going to put slices on the bottom of the glass container to make a sorbet with chewy fruit. Stack the sliced fruits in order. I think it would have been prettier if it had been green. Take out a tray. Set up the lemon peel and silicone mold. Add milk and 1T spoon of agar. Add sugar and water. Stir well over medium heat to dissolve. When bubbles appear, add yogurt. Oh, it boiled too much. ^^;; Reduce the heat to low and add the yogurt. Mix well, turn off the heat, add all the fruits, mix, and pour well into the glass bowl lined with fruit. I'll put the rest into a lemon mold and a silicone mold. The lemon mold was really good. Cover it with paper foil and put it in the freezer. Wash used dishes and utensils immediately. If there is strawberry water on it, wash it and hang it up. Goodbye Minky the next day ! During the rainy season , an additional fan was turned on in the veranda garden for the plants . Has anyone seen a dog getting some air from a fan!! I didn't plant gentleness on the sofa. Haha. Small changes in the house always make a big difference. The sofa zone has become more cozy. Lace and roses are a great combination. On rainy days, it dried indoors overnight. When I was young, I thought I had a special future. Because we have to become something, there must have been moments when we felt anxious that we might not be able to become anything. Even if nothing happens, existence itself is enough. Now, here! I wash the laundry, cook, and raise my children. The sense of accomplishment gained from one's job in society was quite strong, but now a gentle curve is better than a sharp upward graph . Finally, cutting the cake-like sorbet~ It's an ice cake with fruit in it. you are pretty. Hyeonseo and her husband also take out each piece and cut it up to eat. A sorbet that can be made with any type of fruit. It is safe to store in an airtight container in the freezer. If you leave it out at room temperature 10 minutes before eating, it will become softer. It's light and chewy. (*^^*) I need to try the one in the lemon cup. Wow~ It's refreshing, sweet, and sour. The lemon peel came back to life and became a pretty dessert cup. Ice cream made with fresh cream is delicious, but in the summer, sorbet is bursting with fruit. It's been a while since Hyunseo and her husband haven't appeared in the video. This video is spent quietly organizing the kitchen and organizing the group. While eating delicious food. ^^ If your heart has sunk due to the fierce rain and wind , now is the time to rise again. Enjoy this time and have bright days ahead. We'll meet again. (Thank you for waiting. As always~)