- Once you start accepting or it can stretch, it can you can play any game you want. One very simple thing to play around with is the idea of a wormhole. If you can start to manipulate space, wouldn't you wanna manipulate between here and some far-off point? And then what you can ask is, How would I find matter And the Einstein equations will tell you these are the features of you will need to make that bridge. The problem is that the that are required to build they want to collapse. So I think the argument would be wormholes are mathematically, Physically, they might be impossible because there might never be that are required to build them. Quantum wormholes are This stuff's so hard, man. All of matter really is of a short number of characteristics. To be an electron means that spin, and that charge- and that's all it means. There's no electron There's no electron that's or has a different charge. That is all that they are is that list. And we call that &quot;the information.&quot; There's also information in how and we believe that all of the has to be preserved. It can't be lost. If that electron runs into the singularity and its quantum numbers are gone, that is information falling disappearing. Now, the laws of physics on the idea that that can never happen because if that can happen, then the laws are meaningless. The discovery of black holes did not lead to a big emotional crisis about the loss of information because of this idea behind the event horizon. And that one-way window meant that we would be completely ignorant of the loss of the electron and the loss of the and it floating out of existence. We're protected from that so completely, that people were willing to kind of just shrug their shoulders and call it a conjecture of a protection that we would never run into any problems in the reality of the world, this side of the black hole. I always thought that was a bit glib but that was an attitude at least until Stephen Hawking. He begins to ask about around black holes. In quantum mechanics, we believe that there is, in empty space, still quantum activity- and that's what we think the vacuum is. The vacuum kind of churns and The vacuum doesn't allow There are rules that things and they have to come in pairs so that they don't disturb Think of an analogy with color: Imagine you have a color green, and that is the property. You might be able to create a out of this color green if you have the exact yellow pair, such that in combination and that has all the What Hawking does that's so unusual is he realizes that if I have a pair, the black hole has the capacity which no other thing in the Universe has, which is it can steal one and leave the other completely alone. It can hide one of those droplets Its pair, which is left behind, let's say it's the yellow droplet can't go back into the vacuum 'cause it no longer has It needs its pair to disappear to become green again. It can't, by itself, be green. And so that little particle he realizes this particle can emanate from just outside the black hole. It's not coming from inside. It's coming from the nothingness, the quantum energy of the vacuum. And it can escape. And if I'm very far, I will and I will see it comes from just outside the event And I will deduce that the And the other very subtle is because of the rotation the blue pair that was absorbed actually decreases the So the black hole does even though nothing has originated from inside the black hole and escaped. Over time, Hawking calculates that the black hole will evaporate and eventually it will be gone. And all of this energy that around the black hole, it will look like the black Once you yank up the curtain it's gone. The singularity itself might even be gone. But what happened to all of What happened to all of that that all of our laws say is where did it all go? Now I have a Universe that information has ceased And that became a huge crisis between those that believed that quantum mechanics that you cannot destroy information, and those who believed that Einstein's theory of black holes are exactly as and that there must be something wrong with quantum mechanics- and that led to the great - So where do we go from there? Do we talk about quantum entanglement? Do we talk about firewall? - Yeah, we can talk about, maybe we could talk about holography. - Cool. The idea of holography is that you are encoding in two dimensions three-dimensional information, so that in some two dimensional surface, you shine light on it in a particular way and it renders a three-dimensional volume. This term was invoked by Lenny Susskind; he was invoking it as a way that black holes might and this illusion of a three-dimensional astrophysical object with an interior, maybe an entire universe, it's just a projection. And the reason why this it was saying, &quot;Maybe the information about what fell into the black hole is always somehow retained on the surface and that never falls into the black hole.&quot; And that's why it can be encoded in the radiation that comes out. And so when the event horizon is yanked up and the black hole is gone, there is not a conflict anymore because all that information made it out. It never fell into a singularity, it never fell out of the Universe- it was always somehow One peculiarity of thinking that the information is is that it can lead to When you cross this nothingness what we call &quot;no drama,&quot; there's no drama at the event horizon, instead you encounter and your quantum bits are essentially, you are stuck there. That is a very interesting idea, but it was also, it induced a lot of hysteria because nothing about that there's any reason to to be happening at the event horizon. And so, this led to a lot of new energy and reinvigorated a lot of discussion about how can we retain without invoking this firewall. Well, we don't need a firewall if there's a way for the information outside the event horizon to be entangled with the And that's similar to the idea and being a pair in such a way that they're featureless when combined, but when separate are very distinct. And if two particles are entangled, they have a relationship with each other and they can only be one way One can only spin up if And so by reading the information of the particle that escapes, maybe you can reconstruct that fell in. On the other hand, if the the radiation is entangled with itself. Maybe there are little wormholes that are connecting the quantum wormholes with the such that, in some sense the as the stuff that came out. Okay, lemme try this: I think that a more metaphorical way to look at how wormholes can is to say that when I look at a black hole and I see an event horizon and I believe that to be real, that I might be suffering from an illusion that the black hole is Maybe it's more like embroidery: where a bunch of threads are sewn together and those embroidered threads look like a solid shadow. But what it really is, is a bunch of overlapping threads that have created the of an event horizon. And in this analogy, those overlapping threads They're negotiating the information that falls into the black hole with the spacetime and the And they do this in this quantum way so that it's not that they're it's that they're creating: that the event horizon is emerging from the overlap of all of And that has very, very It will resolve the which has haunted theoretical physics since Hawking first proposed it in 1974. It would not only solve that problem, but it would be a smoking gun- a kind of signal that that we are pursuing is probably not the right path. That gravity in some that things like spacetime, really emerge out of that is actually a hundred