debt repayment Report to me as it should be Stop You still stop scram Please don't touch it Mom? Mom My mom grew up and my dad grew up with him What does this have to do with us? You're his brother anyway Lai can't live without it Parent debt 5 Don't you understand this? Take it away from me let go No no I want let go Stop How much do I owe you? Okay, let's go. Zhang Ziyi, you are the mommy I am looking for I didn't expect it. I will talk to the national god Zheng Shaokai, the heir to the Wutong Group, went to bed However, he cannot be my husband Get out If it weren't for our family being so strong How can you take advantage of this? Didn't you say 5 million? What 2 million You think your dad's bankruptcy hole sounds so good As long as you can give birth to a boy I will naturally give you the money back. Ah! I'll tell you what. Don't think about future blackmail I will make the best hypnotist in the world Make you forget Do you understand? roll Did the boy take my baby? Now this is my baby. This is 300. Let's go My child Ah! Ah! Zhang Ziyi, you are the mommy I am looking for kid I don't know you. From today onwards, I ask you to be my mommy Specifically, we can find a place to talk about the conditions. Sign a contract What the hell is this contract? I don't want to hold you No, come with me. Then go with them Little friend, can you tell me now? Why do you want me to be your mother? Zhang Ziyi, I want to take care of you Pardon me? Zhang Ziyi, the water you drank was flown in instead of air A cup worth $1,000 That's expensive. Let me tell you something. Bear child, even if you treat me to such expensive water I won't promise you either. Hey Didn't your adult tell you how to speak? I was raised by a stepmother since I was a child Without a tutor, I long for a It hurts my mom. I had someone investigate you You are the ideal candidate Don't worry, we only sign for one year. At that time, if you choose not to be my mommy, you can leave. The debts of Miss Zhang's family have been fully paid off No one will harass her anymore What! You have it all arranged You little brat, you've got an idea Okay, for the sake of you helping me pay off my debts I'll return the favor Hey, but we have to make three agreements. I'm just a mommy who takes care of you If you lose your temper with me in a year misbehaving I'll leave immediately All right. Wish us a happy cooperation. 1,000 yuan of mineral water is really sweet OK Why is there such a big throw pillow on my bed? Wow It's so comfortable to hold firmly Hey, hey. Wow What a handsome face That's a beautiful piece of art. It's nice to get such eye-catching benefits Well, it feels good. What are you doing? Can you still talk? You are quite arrogant I'll tell your aunt. I have everything in my dreams I can still be bullied by you Give me a touch Hmm not bad Give you 99 points And a little too proud Ha ha. Ah! Why are you being bullied in your dreams? Ah! You you stinky rascal Why are you in my bed? Stinky rascal What have you done to me? Just leave Do you think you can be my woman after getting into my bed? I'm plotting you Don't you see whose bed this is in? Your bed, open your eyes and show me clearly This is my house. This is my bed Yes, yes, what's the situation? This is not my home. Then why am I in your bed? Stupid woman How much do you want? Please bro I really thought you were running all over the street in RMB Everyone loves it. Right? Don't tell me you don't like money Yeah, I like money. This group member must be looking for Pen for me to sign The check is really well prepared Stinky what I'm also rich, okay? For the sake of you feeling that you have suffered a big loss Here's the money. You, you actually think I, Zheng Shaokai This 10 dollars I'm just implicitly arguing You are like that Stop for me No. It's not about the money. What's the problem then? You insult me Good night mommy kid It's You Zheng Ningning, you made it clear to me What's going on? You're such a bad boy Drug me Send me here, right? You drank too much last night and I brought you back Hey, I drink mineral water How can you be drunk? Stop talking Tell me why you sent me this. He's my daddy. You are my mommy Aren't you supposed to sleep in the same bed? Daddy You come out Daddy, the truth is you You made it clear to me. How come? Daddy, the truth is that you slept with him last night Must be responsible for him Tell me nonsense again. Let me tell you something. You already have a mommy Don't bring any messy women Or mommy. No he is my mommy That Xiao is a bad woman She's not my mommy at all Give me nonsense again Mommy He hit me. What a cold-blooded animal Such a cute child can do it Domestic violence man bad guy It's not that you have the right to control me What are you doing? Do not touch me strange Why does it feel familiar? So like him Do not touch me Don't bully my mommy I'll just let her catch your own mommy When she comes back she has to go Do you hear me? See if you are injured If I see you're okay, I'll go first After all, this place is not suitable for long stay Mommy, don't you want me? Don't leave me here alone Stupid brother is so fierce But you used to have a mother brother Tell you he's not my real mommy Really? He is your stepmother You don't get the motherly love you deserve I just found my mommy You just stay here. We have a contract If you violate it, you will pay me 5 million liquidated damages All 5 million Oh you little devil My family has a big Dealing with breach of contract compensation is the most severe Honey, I was just kidding you. After all, your violent dad said it too I chased him to sleep to his 78 meters Don't drive me away for the time being when you come back. Unless your stepmother comes back Okay, what's the matter? OK It's over, Zheng Nini The design competition I entered was announced today Show the shortlist I got to go. Bye. This stupid woman Treat Zheng Lingling as an ordinary child Sold and helped count the money Tingting, I'm warning you! If you mess around again As soon as the deadline expires I'll drive that woman away Ouch mom, you forgot your bag. Daddy, send it to him I am the president I sent him away his dream So dirty Yo, which cleaner should I be? Isn't this our college flower? Zhang Ziyi Why don't you wipe all our shoes clean? Maybe I could consider giving you a bite to eat Xu Liniang, please let me go It's too big for my neck. I won't move What do you care about me? Damn Zhang Ziyi How dare you mock me for being trash? I'm just telling the truth Apologize to me. Or I'll tear your mouth apart How dare you say that? That's impossible. Mr. Zhang, why did you come to see Xu in person in the preliminary round? Lingling, please let me Excuse me. Mr. Zhou, I'll deal with it. No hurry I'd like to see what else he can do Ding Tong grabbed him Don't let him get away Hey let go How dare you laugh? you Who hit you? Why did you break up? People are wrong What's the noise? Publish now Wutong Group Model Clothing Contest Preliminary Shortlist First place Zhang Ziyi He got it right. I am Zhang Ziyi. Please show your ID and entry card To confirm Oh yeah. I don't have my ID I didn't bring my entry card. Well, I told you What does a cleaner take to enter the competition? No competition at all you Turn this bag into Zhang Ziyi Yes Don't think you can get away with impersonating Just ouch How thick-skinned do you want? Only then will he say that he won the first place in the preliminary selection of the design competition Get him out of here! Don't waste everyone's time Xu Lingling, you clearly know that I am Zhang Ziyi Is that right? I only know a poor guy, Zhang Ziyi. Dad is broke Are you in debt at home? This is your bag. Thank you, you're welcome, Mr. Chen Here's my ID card. And a certificate. Congratulations! Miss Zhang Ziyi Xu Lingling Although I am poor But I have talent. Words can overwhelm you You bitch Look at you Did you win by talent? Bah, you came to power by seducing Mr. Chen You bitch Xu Lingling, what did I say? If it weren't for you and Mr. Chen Why is the bag in someone else's hands? I'm afraid I didn't sleep with someone else last night Forgot the bag? You are talking nonsense, I have no unspoken rules. Go away, little three Go quickly Hurry up I let him go Damage the company's reputation Disqualify them from the competition Why? Cancel just because you say cancel Do you know who I am? I am the daughter of Libang Group The largest sponsor of this competition How much is your sponsorship? I'll pay you 10 times. Don't appear in front of me in the future Otherwise, I won't let your mother's business go on forever Who are you? Thanks just now Don't get me wrong, I'm not interested in you. I just can't stand it when others bully Zheng Ningning's mother Although only temporarily But after all, you signed the contract No. Do you think I care about you? In broad daylight I am afraid that others will misunderstand. Yes, I was thoughtless and I got out of the car sit down What's the matter? I don't even have the right to get off the bus. Take you shopping for clothes I don't have to buy a car. Hey, stop, stop Hey You're in the wrong place. We don't have scrap for sale here. I just dumped the license Only 10 bucks. Now being dumped by someone else Is this the legendary modern newspaper? I'm here to buy clothes. You buy clothes? Are you kidding? Go out and turn left at the flea market. 100 bucks a set. You can't afford our clothes. Don't pretend here Hey, you two look after him? Don't let him touch our clothes with his hands Hey sir What kind of clothes do you want? We provide high-end customized ones. Come in and have a look. Go away out of the way Sir, I'm so sorry. It's this woman who doesn't know what's good or bad I'll kick her out right away Please calm down calm down Take it for water I used a one and a half catty of bream The price is 10 yuan a jin. Clean it up and give it a flower cutter. When the flower knife is cutting, we will You must first learn to slaughter fish Then you can make fish Why don't you just kill a fish? What's so hard about that? Come on, Daddy You can do it. In my eyes, you are omnipotent Hey The fish fell, catch him Come on, can you help? Me neither. The clothes look good Is that too expensive? Not expensive. Not expensive. Our clothes It is the perfect combination of quality and price Yes, yes, yes. Welcome to come again next time. We must New goods are ready for you. Do you need anything else? So much. I haven't tried yet. Go home Hey, did you pay? How much will be repaid to you in monthly installments? No, nothing else. 10 bucks is enough Wait for me. Mommy Looks like I don't have to buy you clothes anymore Daddy bought it for you Yeah. I don't know what kind of kindness your father sent today Buy me so many clothes Do you think he has some conspiracy? Daddy clearly likes you Just can't say it I'm mad at him. Don't talk nonsense, he kicked me out this morning Niuniu Let's go take you out to eat Daddy, don't go out to eat Mommy is about to cook I'm used to eating in five-star hotels Eating this kind of amateur food will give you diarrhea Hey Look down on Miss Ben's cooking skills, right? how You can cook? Dogs don't eat You are so amazing, you do it Daddy, didn't you say you would cook for me? You can do it with mommy today, please Mommy, what's wrong? Nothing. Nothing I just wanted to say that you can't be my son No, Zhang Ziyi, as long as you work hard Daddy will like you His girlfriend Xiao Tianxin What's good? You are tall and have a good figure. Also cook Daddy is really blind Xiao Tianxin is that big star Oh, my God. It's not that your dad is blind Xiao Tianxin is blind Ningning has it Is it so delicious? Certainly much better than a five-star restaurant Daddy, try it I'm not, I'm not hungry. What's so delicious about such an ordinary dish? Hey Don't you eat in anything except five-star hotels? I didn't do your part. Hello This fish has my share too Why can't I eat it? Okay, okay, you are the uncle to eat for you Yo Why do you eat a warm reunion dinner at home without me? Big Star Xiao Tianxin Shao Kai Aren't you filming? Why are you back? I miss you and Ning Ning I didn't even attend the wedding party I'll be back with you Haven't eaten yet Let's sit down together Who is that? he Ah! He is the nanny hired by Ning Ning No, he's the mommy I found Ning Ning, I'm your mommy, okay? No, you're not my mommy You never loved me I'll take a look. It's all my fault No time to accompany Ning Ning I made him recognize another woman as his mommy Don't blame yourself too much. Children Always get angry Shaokai You must get rid of that unknown woman So that I can personally accompany Ning Ning I'm afraid not. I advised Ning Ning She is stubborn Seems to like this woman very much If you drive her away now Ning Ning will be unhappy Let's talk about it later. Well, then I'll listen to you. But Shaokai We haven't seen each other for a long time Can you stay with me tonight? That's unfortunate. The company has a meeting today. You should rest early. Shaokai, I've been with you for six years Why are you still unwilling to give me a name? If I hadn't saved you in the first place How could you be the eldest young master of the Zheng family today? Qianqian, I said I wanted me to marry you I have to get past my mom Too bad my mom doesn't agree Sound Card Hello Miss Xiao Why did you come to my house? Are you trying to take my place here? Not really. No, actually. I'm just a contract signed by Ning Ning You cheated the kid. You can't fool me. You didn't come here just to make money I'm not. I'm just here to work Miss, if you are really worried I can quit my job Don't you really remember me? Really? We met before It seems that Zhang Ziyi has really lost her memory He completely forgot about that deal He didn't know that he was Mingming's biological mother. Then I'll let him stay here Let him see how Zheng Shaokai and I got married Then you stay. I believe this will leave you with an unforgettable memory Are all big stars so weird? Mr. Zheng Is there any result of the message I asked you to check? I found it. According to the findings of multiple private investigators Cross-contrast The conclusion is almost unanimous All the evidence points to The car accident six years ago Not by your business competitors But what? Am I right? Go ahead and say all the evidence shows You were in a car accident Xiao Tianxin saved you in time Is that a farce he directed and acted in? Mr. Zhang, wake up Mr. Zhang Mr. Zhang Mr. Zhang, wake up Mr. Zhou, are you alright? 6 years ago, Xiao Tianxin was an unknown newcomer After he saved me I used all my resources to promote him What a great deal No wonder he took the risk. Mr. Zheng will not make his crimes public Don't worry, check his relationship with Ning Ning first. Ning Ning never kissed him I'm even a little skeptical He is not Ning Ning's biological mother Ok Mr. Zheng That's right. Tomorrow Isn't it the final of the Wutong Group clothing competition? There is a man named Zhang Ziyi Take good care of it Ok Mr. Zheng Go down. The following is the appearance of Zhang Ziyi's clothing works on the 19th Zhang Jinye, you fight with me I can only blame you for being Lingling's mother. Assistant Xiao, the No. 19 player has not played for a long time According to the rules Should we disqualify him? Sweetheart Wait a little longer. Maybe he needs more preparation time. Vision works very well Chinese painting style Yes, I like it very much. unexpected It's so wonderful No matter how beautiful this dress is It doesn't match the style of his leopard work either Besides, there are obviously professional models Why would he travel by himself? It's self-aggrandizing. We must not encourage this ethos Hmm, that makes sense. Good morning, everybody. Hello. I am the host of the Wutong Group Costume Design Competition Li Xian I'm the host Xiaoyao. Let's give it a big hand. Welcome to our big star Miss Xiao Tianjun And Assistant Xiao from Hudong Group International fashion designer Able International fashion designer Mai Professor Arthur International fashion designer Alan International fashion designer Gao Shiming International fashion designer Muruski Zhang Ziyi You want to fly to the branches and become a phoenix Think beautifully The game is about to start No, Ziyi's clothing arrangement was splashed with ink What should I do? I'll be on the field later. What do you do? It's okay, I'll figure it out. Ah, my stomach hurts. When I can't get out Hey Ouch, if you are not a professional model, you will learn to walk Make this mistake So unprofessional Oh oh oh Okay. Stop staring at me A good fee Everybody watch. It's embarrassing to rely on this Congratulations to the three winners Warm congratulations to everyone Did you make a mistake? On the 19th, such an excellent work did not win an award Maybe he has no background What's the use of being talented? Relationships are hard power Ok yes president Okay, congratulations to the three of you. Let me tell you the good news. Our organizer, Mutong Group Just made an updated decision They believe that the work of Channel 10 and 9 can be used by the people Yes. Please invite Miss Zhang Ziyi to be the chief designer of Wugong Group Let's congratulate Miss Zhang Ziyi You are helping me. No. I just want to give my group Find a real designer Could it be that he really has true feelings for Zhang Ziyi? Assistant Xiao, I don't understand. I am a big star Why should you wear clothes from an unknown designer? Sweetheart, you are the spokesperson of our company. Of course, wearing our company's clothes. Zhang Ziyi is the chief designer Please give me a chance. I don't understand. Why was Shao Kai so fascinated by him? Gotta let him come As the chief designer of our group He's just a broken nanny in our house Do you know That is. What's his coffee position? What kind of coffee is my Tiantian sister? Wouldn't it be cheaper to wear clothes he designed? Miss Xia, this is the dress just designed for you. You can try it on. See if it fits. What the hell is this? The design is not fashionable at all Dare to give it to our sister Tianxian to wear I bah Miss Xiao, you are charming Everywhere you go, it's the focus. I design clothes based on fit. It's not to dazzle So as not to steal your thunder What do you mean? Do you mean to say The clothes you design are more gorgeous. Can you cover my light? Could it be that My own charm is not as good as your ragged clothes Impermanence ruined his clothes for me That's what it means. I'll tell you what. Don't think you're some kind of lead designer I will listen to you I am a big star Let you carry my shoes You don't deserve it. Or go home and coax the kids to be babysitters? Why does Su Tianxin hate me so much? Zhang Ziyi, don't you really remember? I thought you just forgot that one thing I didn't expect it. You have forgotten me as an old classmate. Don't you forget Your dad went bankrupt But you kept begging me. Let me lend you money to get through this difficult time You said it You forgot. Hello lest you remember Your dark secrets Sweetheart Make it clear to me What's the secret? Don't think that you are ice-clean and jade-clean Let others think you are some innocent girl You're just a man who loves to seduce other men A slutty woman who has been conceived and pregnant Sister Tianxin Zhang Ziyi is the chief designer hired by Mr. Zheng Please stop fooling around I mess around Then let Zheng Shaokai come and have a look What kind of woman is he? Mr. Zheng, you came just in time You judge Is he qualified to be my chief designer? I think you must have misunderstood. It's not that he's not qualified. You are not qualified From now on You are not the spokesperson of the Sycamore Group You are not eligible either Wear the clothes of our group's chief designer Mr. Sheng, don't offend Miss Xiao for me I can't be the lead designer. I quit. Without my permission You are not allowed to resign Make the most of your position as lead designer Did you all see it? I didn't frame him He just gave birth Fucking with other men at a young age Give birth to wild species Now even your own children don't know where they are Zhang Ze, you are talking nonsense I don't remember what happened before But this scar my mom told me about Said I had appendicitis surgery before A fox is a fox Not only get married How dare you lie to me in public How did you make sure she gave birth to a baby? I just know. My classmate told me Mr. Zhang, you can treat my father But our child is me If you abandon me That is to abandon our children Since you don't like me Then I'll take my son away Mr. Zheng Zheng, before the appraisal results come out Protect Ningning Don't let him be my son again You really don't remember anything Since when? 6 years ago What kind of man did you marry six years ago? Zhou Shaokai, I'm not the kind of person Xiao Tianqin said I'm not a vixen Zhang Ziyi Are you the same person you were the night before yesterday? Yo beautiful woman Alone? Why don't you two drink one hehe Why are you dying? Enough! Pretty hot brother likes you like this Let's go! Let's go. roll You are Zhang Ziyi It's really you? You are You really forgot about me I am Li Jiahao Your ex boyfriend Sorry, I don't think I've ever had a boyfriend. We were in a good relationship 6 years ago We also agreed to work together at my dad's company But you suddenly left without saying goodbye Even the breakup will be left to me I've been looking for you all these years You let go first you Look. Is that so? Six years ago, something happened to me. Amnesia I can't tell either. It is. It is. I can't remember a lot of things Sorry. It's okay to meet you again This is my greatest luck Actually you forgot We can also start over Ziyi doesn't care what happened to you in the past It's all over I promise to give you happiness forever Because I'm a rich man now. CEO of a chain company Let's fall in love again Let go of his hand Let go of his hand Who are you? I'm the father of his child Ziyi has children I am indeed the mother of the child He is indeed the father of the child But we are not a man-woman relationship Zhang Ziyi has not seen you for several years I didn't expect you to be so open-minded Back then, you were still an innocent jade girl I won't even touch your hand You couldn't touch it before Now you can't even touch it. Just go. He didn't go last time. Why did you drive him away? He was my first boyfriend. He can help me retrieve the memories of 6 years ago Do you know I want to retrieve the memories of 6 years ago, I will help You don't let me go like this Hey! Are you in such a hurry? You are the stinky rascal rogue Compared to six years ago when you were in my bed Who is the hooligan I finally found you. It's not me, how could it be me? In debt 6 years ago I work all over the place. We are not from the same world at all I can't be in this city Don't borrow so many people Think again. One's career Or you are closed to yourself Or being controlled Let me take you to meet someone Who is that? The best hypnotist I know Maybe he can help you with the antidote Ah! How is jenny His memory was deliberately hypnotized I have woken him up. But it may be a little painful to accept the reality Go in and comfort yourself Don't come here Don't come here This doom What's wrong? I didn't do anything. Sorry! Don't you touch me! Once my dad went bankrupt To pay off debt Agreed to the request of classmate Xiao Tianxin You go to bed to have your baby I don't blame Xiao Tianxin I can't face it You've always used me as a fertility tool He kept me in the dark. Then I woke up to find him lying next to me In fact, I have always suspected him And then he got pregnant. I just So your phase breath is you But I already took a paternity test I've been wondering She is not Ling Ling's biological mother at all And then I got pregnant. Had a son. Taken away by the little star I don't remember what happened then. Never come to the door to transfer shifts Mom told me That's from my appendicitis surgery It's all little sweet What do you mean? If you say so That's obviously our child Dad? Help my mom This woman wants to bring I'll go, Tingting, don't be afraid. I'll be right there. Tingting, I'm mom. I'm mom. You are making trouble with Zhang Ziyi You think of your father's mother I'll tell you what. Dream on. I want you to see it. How I became a wealthy woman Dear Don't I just want our family to be reunited? Tomorrow? Go to your house and tell your parents to get married I will spare your son You dream I will never let you marry you in my life And if you hurt Niuniu I will never let you go OK Then you will never see your precious son What should I do? Mom this It's the ginseng tea I brought you specially. Drinking too much is good for your health Very helpful Don't Call Me Mom You are not qualified to marry into my Zheng family After all, Tianxin is good to our son. Marrying the Zheng family is also a good thing Yes, Mom. People's hearts are big stars Rejecting him will cause a lot of gossip I don't think he is not qualified to marry into the Zheng family Mom, Shao Kai and I have been in a relationship for 6 years I also gave birth to a lively and lovely grandson for you Besides, I'm still Shao Kai's savior Am I not enough Are you qualified to marry into your Zheng family? Although you saved Shao Kai But he's already made a name for you from a tri-county The security guard has already returned your favor Although Ning Ning is your son But he never called you mom There is no reason in the world for a son not to recognize his mother You should also reflect on yourself Oh, Mom, those are all children who are not sensible. Anyway. This Ningning is a matter of your Zheng family bloodline Can't go wrong Again If I don't marry into your Zheng family again I'm afraid it will damage the fertility of your Zheng family. Then I'm not all for your Zheng family, okay? Did you make Tianxin cry just now? Oh my god What's wrong with the heart? You clearly have a prejudice against him Sure enough, she is the queen The performance is good Fool the audience But you can't fool me and Shao Kai Know Your Life Is it mom How could I lie to you? Later, Shao Kai will come in person. To announce to you that I am married to him Shao Kai Mom and Dad Son heard that you are getting married. You finally figured it out Yes! Mom, I didn't lie to you, did I? So I told you. Shao Kai will definitely marry me Dad? The person I want to marry is not a sweetheart Zhang Shaokai, are you kidding me? You won't marry me? Who are you marrying? His name is Zhang Zimei. I want to marry him Son, you don't want to marry Xiao Tianxin You can't marry an ordinary woman. Yes, you can't go to the doctor indiscriminately if you are sick It won't solve the problem. Your dad is a lesson Shao Kai, my good brother You are the heir to the group How can you marry an unknown woman? Zheng Shaokai, how much do you hate you? Will use this means to get revenge on me Mom and Dad Sister, the reason why I married Zhang Ziyi It's because Ziyi is your biological mother Really? Shaokai, stop talking nonsense here I am Ning Ning's biological mother Sweetheart, stop acting You know what you did to me six years ago What have I done to you? You show evidence Mom Shao Kai was deceived by this woman This woman used to be my classmate I know what kind of person she is best He used to drug Shao Kai Want to take advantage of the opportunity Fortunately, I found it early Stop in time I didn't expect it to still remain unchanged I want to be a mini nanny Mommy Such a woman Do you dare to let her into a wealthy family like our Zheng family? I don't have you and you don't have a son This kind of woman is unworthy Brother, don't you know what a scheming bitch is? Don't believe her. It's all about this woman I came because she was infertile To please my mother Lend father to son Utilization subsense Poor Ziyi was hypnotized by her Loss of memory So Ziyi is Ning Ning's biological mother Zheng Shaokai, stop talking nonsense here I am Ning Ning's biological mother Really? Assistant Xiao Did you all see it? It's clearly written in this appraisal letter clearly Ning Ning and I are mother and son Chen Keyou I clearly remember that you took my child away What about my child? Zhang Ziyi, you scheming You didn't touch the porcelain. Are you messing around here now? I'll tell you what. Get out of Zheng's house immediately It's not for you. Xiao Tianxing, I warn you Don't bully her. She is my woman. She is you Then I'm not your woman anymore I've been with you for six years I gave birth to a son for you You still doubt it? I am not your son's biological mother Now the evidence is solid get to the bottom of it Should your Zheng family give me a name? It's a son, the truth is in front of you You've been protecting this woman It's time to give Tianqing a name Otherwise, our Zheng family will have no face left Dad was right Xiao Tianxin Is the best candidate for our daughter-in-law of the Zheng family I don't agree with that. Mom, your grandson is so old Should you wake up? Give me the position of the mistress of the Zheng family Otherwise, your Zheng family will bully me The big star behaves like this Can only be reduced to a laughing stock With your quality I still want to marry into a wealthy family Ugh! Although I am old But not blind OK, we'll see. The big deal is that we die I'm going to give a press conference now Expose the ugliness of your Zheng family Stop for me Give me back my son Or I'll sue you for kidnapping Joke in the world There's no reason for a mother to kidnap her own son I'm just taking him out to play What can you do to me? I'll tell you what. Zheng Shaokai will never see your son unless he gets married Son, I don't want a woman like this You threaten me? Threat this is not a threat This is to inform you. Good idea. If I'm not mistaken You rigged the report I need to do another check. Is the president Zhou Shaokai, you have to make a mess for me Don't you understand? Zhang Ziyi, what's good about him? I can't compare to him It's all because of you, you bitch Ruin my happy life I'll kill you now. Mom save me What are you doing? You are not hurt Get off and don't touch my son Mingming Bad woman you are not my mommy What do you mean? Walk with me! Walk! Okay. Let's go Don't worry. Walking in the middle of the road Brother, are you alright? Zhang Ziyi, I believe you are Lingling's biological mother. There is no mother in the world who only cares about running for her life Leave your son behind Mommy look get it done Thank you, old classmate Can help you, a big star I begged for mercy. How can you repay me? To be honest You have more taste than that noble Zhang Ziyi. Xiao Tiexin doesn't know that you are such a woman Are you still his fan? It's a shame that I've always regarded you as my best friend You take my money Swipe my card to buy it from the company. Give me all the money back. Miss I didn't expect you to use this method Make sure to bring your close affairs to an end tomorrow No, no. Shao Kai doesn't really love you? I just want to take advantage of that Lu You trust me. Shao Kai, trust me Assistant Zhang Shao Kai Shao Kai You believe me Shao Kai Mom and Dad Do you agree with me marrying Zhang Zi? Why don't I agree? I've been looking forward to this day for a long time This is your real family of three It's really great Son's father sees the wrong person You did the right thing. Grandson didn't expect to be so old Our Zheng family has a queen It was like a dream. I never imagined I would be so happy