Tony Hawk visited a lot of weird places across the first two games. Area 51. Space. Chicago. Today we're finally leaving the polygonal generation. This is Tony Hawk's Pro Skater Foundry is the first stage in the game. the first three games have been industrial areas. and now we're in Foundry. Though I gotta say, like this is the one you should be skating in long decommissioned warehouse or airplane hanger. Workers out and about. The furnaces metal is just in the open and you can And come on, Tony's not even wearing proper Turning around directly when you start leads you into this tall room with a Apparently this is the &quot;Generator It looks ominous in here. This is something I've never seen the power source of a foundry as this. The pulsating lights down below. The And just what is at the top of this shaft anyway? Man, getting kinda dizzy. It just keeps going. Great, awesome. It just stops out of nowhere. Not even a little platform with There wasn't even a goal in this room. grinding down all the way, but that's hardly nothing to make me feel accomplished for riding up I love it. Stretching out above about half of kinda awkward to reach on your board, but Wait a second. How are normal You reach this spot by jumping off a nearby ladder for normal people to get up here. This guy! A man of few words. Maybe they do skateboard up here. Maybe management expects them to know how to Honestly...? Sick. On the other side of the foundry, you that you can't go through. On the left some guards just hanging out. Good for In the other room, you'll notice a guy having some trouble getting his drink from I don't think he's hitting it hard enough, you Beside it is a computer monitor with... something definitely where I'd place an easter egg if I was Wait, I forgot I could just do this. Hmm. Nah, still can't tell what I remember one of the goals is &quot;Soak the foreman&quot;. in this pool of water here. At first it seems him in for a little swim. That'll show him for But then I realized something. That can't be just about it. Like it's probably for cooling, so if But then I noticed. Corrosive. Did Tony Hawk just dump this guy into some mysterious corrosive liquid? I think Birdman just created his own Joker. We should... we should probably get outta here. (Interlude) Next up is Rio. I don't know what it is about this competition level we've come across I mean, the skatepark is nice. There's park that you can endlessly grind on godsend for extending your combo But I think the area outside of the Something about it feels so a city level in the first game from the First there's this 4 lane road. Makes sense for empty space for a skating game. It's practically long, lest you get run over and need to think And on the other side of the street is just... You can't even grind on the curbs. All that little fountain. Like what's even the point And of course, there's also the quote &quot;secret skateable. Not a bad place to rack up some points. first come here during a new run, there's a bunch them to enter, but... I'm sure you're not the enter this spot before you arrived? Maybe they they look too small. It could be a courtesy to it stays hidden from drivers on the street. And real quick, while I was just mulling I accidentally clipped through this planter here. just skated right out. I've tried a bunch of times but alas, I can't get back in. So inside this Though now, the most we can do (Interlude) Let's visit Tokyo real quick. and unfortunately one I don't have a lot Huh. Definitely futuristic. This does feel like a trope I've seen futuristic high-tech place and all. but I know I've seen it before Like I said, I don't really have much to show off. This isn't a very tour friendly stage, there I guess there's all these Uh... Hmm... The time is 4:20. That's funny I guess. There's these cube holograms. They don't just cubes. Though maybe Big Cube paid for them. Oh, if you jump on top of the ledges behind where at the out-of-bounds area. There's a handful of Man those cars are SPEEDING. Hey, shoutout to Studio Gary. I love their work. A lot of Japanese text around here, obviously. please feel free to read through these and something super secret just for the eagle Yeah, that's all I got for this stage. and smooth textures, but I can't talk (Interlude) Los Angeles is the final stage of the video. Ugh, I don't know why I keep covering I know nothing about them! I don't know based on something in real life. This I'm sure this is an iconic skate spot. Hell, life beloved carwash that people will tell you country. Or it's a piece of shit that someone I've seen enough of California Dakota. Or Vermont. Wyoming, I don't care. Though maybe if those states had a Havgas Carwash, they would have already been Regardless, let's take this stage as it is. This is a peculiar building. Are these the but I don't see any other obvious entrance. Down the street is Findley Tower, and when city levels have little interiors And no hints as to what this building not even a front desk. So mysterious. Surely The iconic Havgas Carwash, can't forget about A liquor store and an electronics store. stupidest store name I've ever heard, Random trash fire. I can obviously see the for something else. Like the firefighters firetruck here for that fire, I feel been on their merry way. Instead they're talking about the fire. Though they did put some that. Maybe they ran back to the fire station to Ah, here we go. I love some fake movie as interesting as most. Rear Oh, hey guys. You're uh... pretty close I've noticed THPS levels like to off streets in city levels. Not a bad You can get on top of this building Nothing too crazy up here. Though you reach the front of the building. I you get to gaze out upon the whole stage from up Wait a minute... I'm playing in Free Skate here, so you don't see the destruction wrought If you happen to grind one of four particular Quake Rail&quot; or whatever. That's foreboding. The Using my common sense, which I have plenty of Western, and Southern quake rails. It wasn't you cause an earthquake. Which in turn causing it to crumble down and alter the level. And if that's not enough, there's a goal that you have to grind a ledge near a car destroyed overpass. When it falls, it causes they start firing guns at the officers that were relentlessly. Innocent civilians drive by like Why would Tony do all that? Does he not deliberately choose the wrong choice to Tony must wash away his sins in Keep an eye out for part 2 sometime in the future Thanks to Neversoft for letting And thank you for watching.