- So, this is a pork shoulder - This has been hanging up for two months. That is super special to us. That's like a singular thing and it's an incredible but it allows us to serve (gentle tribal music) - So we get in half pigs, I'll cut the shoulder and the leg off so you just have the Kind of the cool part is normally people cook but we break apart each individual muscle so there's no connective tissue left. So you can just grill it like you would a steak or something. - When we're taking one and seaming out muscle by muscle. Tonight during service, and we'll have to cut a and check for texture, and then that will determine We're totally okay with which sounds a little strange when you talk about consistency, but when I refer to not it doesn't have to look It's gonna taste the same, the way we cut it. - So the rest of this, And because there is the all that meat is still gonna be protected. It's not gonna dry out. - It's just super soft and tender. In the cool room, we have a little bit of So the birds need two We have this constant that we work through depending and cover counts. - So now I'm gonna clean all this fat and connective with really clean, perfect portion. Once it's cooked, we This is incredible, worked and I've never worked It sounds unassuming, people wouldn't expect to get that at a two Michelin star restaurant. But as chef was saying, and everything, makes it really special. Few hours before service, I will season it and then I'll start slowly - [Matthew] Fire six pig. - [Tuna] Yes. (meat sizzling) - Tuna will cook the pig, pass it to me, I carve all the meat at night, and that will determine how Whether it needs a little because fat content, but on the hyper seasoning. This is incredible. Good cooking. - [Tuna] Thank you. - Honestly, it's amazing. I think that a lot of are pretty similar and of luxury ingredients three star level. So I am proud to say that we don't serve imported beef, we don't serve truffles We're trying to show what a serving humble ingredients. (gentle instrumental music) It's 9:30, we're in Point Arena, which is about 25 minutes Everything you see here One of our cooks, who lives and pick up the ingredients for the day. Two days ago, I saw on the which we'll harvest. So we have a course in the menu right now, it's barbecued kohlrabi and - It's a white kohlrabi. I prefer this variety in terms of growing and it's fairly consistent which is something that you want if it's going to be central to a dish. (upbeat pop music) - It's 11:00 AM. So, kohlrabi from this morning. Sam will fabricate these, peel them down, - So you'll take off all and you end up with this and then I'll kind of peel it down so you'll end up with like a puck. Then I'll pass off that trim to chef. He'll do a puree with that. Salt it like fairly heavily, to go all the way through the vegetable. And then we'll kind of above the grill, just kind of sweat out a little bit of that moisture, get the seasoning all the way in. - Since we only do one seating, 5:30, we understand that this will probably walk around 6:45, 6:50, depending on the pace. We have a couple hours to get This probably concentrates - I'll set up the grill Kinda have to keep with butter and refreshing so you can kind of rush it. It'll look right, it won't taste right. And it like needs to It really gets like barbacue-y. You could cook a brisket fast but it won't taste the same and this is a similar kind of thing. - This is like three years It's something that we've been working on, like this cooking technique, and every year it comes back we change something. So this year's version is 'cause we're going in a forward direction. And we're starting to on moisture content. So they'll go from here as he over the next four hours, it's gonna really concentrate and we'll get this barbecue We have show-rabis up here. We're starting to realize that most of our guests don't We do a show-rabi, we put on the tray and we bring it to the table. Being in this area, there's and small farms, but quality's And while I appreciate that style of farming, for the restaurant. After two years of trying to do that, we decided to start a farm. It's just a major quality, to be able to harvest that morning and then put it on the plate. Our abalone course has slowly become a bit of a signature for us. One of the most important and first steps for the abalone is to go down to the cove, grab some of that sea water. So, five gallon buckets of ocean come up and then every day those Seaweed is fresh pulled that day as well. See the staircase behind us? We just came down, just beneath the inn. This cove is actually private to the inn, we have the only access. We're at a negative tide right now, so we're usually under water. This is nori, and we use We harvest about nine from this cove, it's kind Late March till September down here, harvesting everything we need for the rest of the year. So this time of year, it's early mornings and a lot of extra Can you take this bucket, grab some ocean for salt and abalone, then - This is the ocean water and we use it to keep our abalone alive, changing up the water every day. - Abalone is coming from Monterey. This is the furthest away we source. We really do keep it local. Farmed underneath the super sustainable, and they've - Pull them out, kind of because if they're stressed - If these were to come in They're too stressed out from travel. A lot of precision in the and it's gonna result (upbeat dance music) - So, after processing all these abalone, I'm gonna wrap them in - [Matthew] Contents abalone which will get roasted in kelp, offal for the gut sauce, - We get two portions out of each abalone but the packet that they're roasted in ends up being part of the presentation. We serve it on that packet, so we need twice as many And if you cut 'em in half and You need to cook them whole. So we found, down at the to the abalone, so we can and it'll get a little without sacrificing the It's actually part of my prep (Tuna laughs) I have definitely thinking it was a rock, 'cause the rocks cook at a Rocks take like 12 minutes to cook. I'm not kidding, 'cause you have to make But the abalone take like 10 minutes. All right, let's cook some rocks. (Sam laughs) This is rock cookery 101. It's gonna be the tagline (clock beeping) Check it after 10 minutes. 30 minutes is too long. You can overcook rocks. So the whole point of this is just so that it'll kinda set the kombu so that it's not just sitting flat. So to replicate the same if in abalone were roasted. Those are done. - It's hard to say signature dish but it's definitely been and preparation of a abalone and roasted in the kelp super soft texture, through this process. (gentle piano music) We're gonna look for lichen, which is part of the tempura dish. Spending some time in the beginning of COVID, the texture was just god awful. And then we started to think This is some of the I don't think anyone else is It's not something you can buy. You can't buy this. So we blanch it three of the stringency, some of the aroma, then we finish it in dashi that taste and has a texture It goes with the mushroom and it adds another Honestly, it's one of the the meal, and I don't think in their life. (gentle orchestral music) - So we got in some squabs, they're from Devil's Gulch Ranch. So we need to age 'em for about two weeks, and I'm gonna lightly salt the cavity. It's not to season or anything, but just to prevent them And then the next step pin the wings back just to keep everything uniform. - So as it hangs up, we'll go this way or this way. We have a couple fans in the walk-in, constantly circulating air, the resulting bird will So later on, when we go to we're able to get this super crispy and then the flesh itself So it's like totally amplified So we do rotate through so squab, the pig, lamb and So just depending on what's the meats that I believe in, Local, it's raised in and the quality of it is super good. - It's kinda like a rotation going here. So we have the fresher birds over here. These ones up here are ready to serve. They're about two and a half weeks now. So again, you can see Now that it's been properly aged, I'm gonna take the heads off. The wings, we use to make a sauce, the legs we will cure and confit, and the heads, I tried so we might be able to use that And now it's ready for service. - Our cooking technique over cypress and then we and that really puffs the So it's got this texture but something really, really (suspenseful music) - Yeah, so one of my is gonna be breaking down rockfish. This is called a black gill rockfish. Yeah, we have a few that they're really and when they have fish, we have fish, when they don't, we don't. So I have to be ready any kind of fish. Before working here, I never really worked with almost any of this product. I had no idea, anything cabezon, yeah, bocaccio, sea cucumber. Definitely pretty much just This is the trim that we created from making the abalone packets, so we're not wasting anything here. All right. So it's rock fish has been on the kombu. Yeah, so after rinsing on really absorbent tuna paper... (Tuna laughs) It's not my own proprietary brand. (Tuna laughs) So then just letting that dry and then we'll slice it closer to service. - Being here and really trying we started to understand of rockfish in this area. Again, it's just diving into and truly understanding them. Two o'clock now, kind of majority through of the actual prep day. Kind of a bit of a push right now. We start from scratch every day, 18 portions of everything, There's zero getting ahead for the week. It's a bit of a push every day. Every day we'll tape two cards here, and through out service, on little things that I or things that we're doing great. And we continue to expand on, so. All right. Good evening. - [All] Good evening. - 18 tonight, nine by two, no IRDs, a couple small menu changes. We're gonna run back over a couple notes. Obviously, last night we had a couple high maintenance tables. I wanna thank Adrianne for the working that guest experience because that was probably one we've had. Like we discussed last night, it's a learning experience, right? So I look forward to having a good night. Everyone that works here, I've never had an easy day here and I'm sure they'll say the same. An easy day, is the day that and we sit down every night, through every single thing Talk about the positives as &quot;Okay, here's our little bottleneck and this is what we can improve on.&quot; Meeting's wrapped, it's 5:10, before we open doors at 5:30. - We wanna be waiting around for people, instead of like scrambling We wanna be like ready to go. - So right now I'm from Fort Bragg. We're going with a chilled So it's with the custard, so it's gonna be chilled. We'll use the really nice tongues on top and then everything and mixed in with the custard. (uptempo instrumental music) - So everything, all and cut things at the last just to kind of preserve the aroma. So with something like this, all the aroma is gone. So it has to be less second. So like the fish aroma, just like his mushroom broth, the second we need it. Yeah, our service is a lot Whether it's infusions, smoking, frying, steaming, we don't prep during the day to reheat. We prep in the day to be able to get to that last moment where We basically go into service with a bunch of raw vegetables There is no sous vide bath. Our Combi oven is our plate warmer. We use the barbecue, we use We can only do one service because we need quiet If you look around me, we So with 18 guests tonight, Really, we're only doing So Dan is working on pickles, Sam is working on the raw course, and Marlana is working And throughout the night, we don't really have to talk to each other because everyone knows Sat on two. - [All] Yes. - So we've sat our first table. Kitchen Turkey on the gravy, it's right around the corner. It's table one so keep the volume down. - [All] Yes. - Sat on two more. - [Co-Worker 2] Yes. - Yeah, we work with the door open. So anytime we're talking we're just, from now on, volume down. So usually when it's this guests don't really want to come inside and start their experience. So, 5:45 right now, we which is good for us in the kitchen because we can get the night going. If there's a whale in the because the whole restaurant and everything that we're and we try not to have Yeah, go all the way on swim. You come back, will be six - [All] Yes. The majority of our cooking on timing, so you see like the sauce arrives, the So everything has to be instant. So when it's hot, it's or taste that we're going for is present and it hits the table within 10 seconds. You come from a restaurant that's world famous and you move up here and everyone's telling They're like, &quot;What are you doing? You have a great thing going on. You should stay.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;No, I'm moving to Elk.&quot; Everyone is like, &quot;It's never gonna work.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;No, it's going to work.&quot; We opened in May, 2018, We would have two nights where You might do one table. A big night would be six or eight. And that went on for probably Luckily there's a hotel here, so the room rate helped us Slowly over time we would pick up and then you're doing and then, then you're doing 12. We got through that first winter and then gained a little traction, food and wine helped a little bit. We got our first Michelin star and then that kind of put us on a path. You can go on all six kohlrabi. - [Tuna] Yeah. - [Matthew] Good cooking. Tuna, don't let it go to your head. - Never. I know I'm trash at heart. (Matthew laughs) Gotta stay humble. - I think we had a really good service. The only comment I have is the vase in the center of the room. The water could've been changed out today. There was a lot of nights and served the food, and and then woke up the next morning and cooked those people breakfast. And we did that for six months. We don't forget about those days. I don't forget about those days. And it's why we still push on every day.