Hello everyone. In this video we're going to be talking about monitors Now a monitor is the primary output component On a desktop computer it connects cable and it displays images on or several video ports that monitor cables DVI, HDMI, or DisplayPort. And some modern So if you're in the market of getting a new monitor, you need to make sure you get one with the correct Because otherwise you'll end up using adapters or exchanging the monitor. Now an older type of monitor is called CRT which stands for a cathode ray tube, which was the first used in TV sets. These monitors are And they are no longer existent in the marketplace today. An image is produced on a CRT by using 3 color electron guns. Which when you combine them, they can produce any color on the color spectrum. These guns shoot beams of electrons on the and create an image that we see. These beams many times per second. So it's constantly redrawing the image that we see on the screen. And this redrawing of the image is known as the in hertz. then that means that the beams sweep entire face of the monitor, redrawing the Today some higher end LCD monitors, rates as high as 240 Hz. Having a higher refresh I'll also reduce motion blur and it will give you a smoother visual experience. Another type of monitor which has succeeded LCD stands for liquid crystal display. These monitors are lighter, thinner, use less power, and take up less space than CRTs. LCDs are also known as flat panel displays. LCD monitors produce an image on a flat surface by using liquid crystals. A backlight shines through these crystals to produce an image And it uses filters to produce different colors. LCDs in laptop computers. And now it's the primary In order for LCD monitors to show an image and there are a couple of different types The older type of lighting is by using fluorescent lamps. These fluorescent lamps are the circular, fluorescent lamps that we're all used to seeing. created when the mercury vapor inside the Another type of backlighting that LCD monitors multiple light emitting diodes that are arranged images on the screen. Now this is a modern The older fluorescent lamp backlighting. The advantages that LED monitors have over and more accurate colors. Another advantage is that it has a higher to the contrast between black and white. The the better, because it can produce a brighter a monitor has a contrast ratio of 1000:1, that than the blacks. LED monitors also consume thinner form factor. Now both of these monitors are considered LCD monitors but the LCD that uses the LED backlighting, So an LED monitor is just an LCD monitor that uses LED backlighting. Now LCD or LED monitors will have 3 different VA, and IPS and these will vary in performance, So the first one is TN. TN stands for twisted liquid crystals actually twisting the light 3 which makes it the most affordable, but at the same time it's also the best as far as performance because it will have the highest refresh rates and the fastest response time. Which makes it ideal for gaming. The response time is the time in milliseconds one color to another color, for example from would be 1 millisecond, as compared to a slower response time of 10 milliseconds. When a monitor has a fast response time, it Ghosting is when an image on a monitor leaves a trail since TN monitors are the fastest they are to other monitors. However, TN monitors do have some drawbacks which are not as good as the other types. especially when viewing vertically. A newer and more modern type of flat panel IPS was developed because of the limitations by instead of the liquid crystals twisting, in an IPS monitor will stay in place and are And because of this, an IPS monitor will have a better and it will also have a better viewing angle than So if you were to view a TN and an IPS monitor look relatively the same with very little change. But on a TN monitor the image will dramatically change. So as you can see, on a TN monitor, the colors get washed out. But the disadvantages of IPS monitors is that lower refresh rate and they will also have a slower Now a VA or vertical alignment monitor is sort of rate and response time faster than an IPS And it will also have a better color reproduction than a TN monitor, but not as good as an IPS. So a VA monitor is basically a mixture of a TN and an IPS. So which flat panel type is the best? Well that question depends on your specific needs. If your profession is in graphics and photography, Therefore you should go with a high performance monitor with the highest Then in this case you should go with a TN monitor. Or if you want something sort of in the middle then you might consider a VA monitor. And another type of monitor is OLED which stands used on monitors, modern smartphones and high-end LCD is the light source. So as I stated before LCD monitors will either use fluorescent bulbs or LEDs with OLED each pixel will produce its own Electrical current is applied to organic compounds OLED monitors are relatively new in the market great colors including producing the darkest contrast ratio. A standard LED may have a have a contrast ratio of 100000:1 produce colors, OLED produces their own colors even thinner than LED monitors. OLED monitors will also have the best viewing angles. between 2 LED monitors, which was an IPS and But if we compare an IPS with an OLED, So as you an see, there is no loss in the colors when viewing an OLED on a vertical or horizontal viewing angle. The image is identical. Another thing to know about monitors is of pixels that are being used to display an image. in an image. The higher the resolution, the Which means a clearer and sharper image. And So for example, if a monitor has a maximum resolution of 1280 x 720, which is called HD or high definition. Then that means that there are Which means that there are over 921,000 pixels that are being used. If a monitor has a maximum resolution of 1920 This resolution will use over 2 And if a monitor has a maximum resolution of 2560 Then this means that there are over 3.6 million This resolution is also known as 2K. And then there's 4K, which is also known as UHD or ultra high definition. And this will have a resolution of 3840 x 2160 Which means that over 8 million pixels will be used. And then finally there's the aspect ratio. The the width and the height of the monitor. Today the standard aspect ratio is called widescreen. Which has an aspect ratio of 16x9. The 16 refers to the width and the 9 refers to the height, Which means that, for example if a monitor happens to be 16 pixels wide, the height would be 9 pixels. Now before the widescreen ratio of 16x9, there was the standard ratio of 4:3 which was more of a square shape. And this was used by CRT monitors and older LCDs. widescreen, such as the ultrawide which has And even wider than that, there's the superwide So guys if you want to know which monitor that I personally use, I'll put a link below in the description of this video. I bought it 3 years ago and So it's very fast and it has to be because I use it to record and make these videos. So I highly recommend it. And once again I'll So I want to thank everyone for watching this video on monitors. Please subscribe. Follow me on Twitter. And thank you for watching.