You feel like your life is going to last a long time and if I was to talk I would tell that kid that you don't have time and... and you really, you don't know And so get out there and do get out there and get after them now. Don't wait another second, take advantage of it. Get out there and live and strive to be better because the life you've got which I just said was a gift. It is a gift. So live it Yeah, I always wanted to be a commando ever since I was a little kid and... I... heard that the Seals were really tough and that the training was really tough and then you know, once you get in everyone makes a big deal but it's, it's... in the Seal Teams it's no big deal. Everyone goes through it you get cold, you get wet. Whatever You do a bunch of push-ups Anyone that gets to the Seal Teams and has a real career they're not talking about BUDS training, it just doesn't mean anything. I had a guy that was you know, NCAA water polo team captain champion he quit. And I had a guy that was and he quit. Just because someone's a good physical athlete it doesn't mean that they're a good Seal because being a good Seal is a lot more Being a good athlete is like the baseline and it's everything that A good leader, a guy that's tactically a guy that's good under pressure, Ever give up on trying Those are the things See you're always learning and growing and I was always learning Because it's not a Boom it's a constant addition of skill set and repetition of situations where you become competent at your job. The fear of getting shot or killed is not on your mind when you're in the moment. You know, it'll build up You know, there's times when thinking to yourself. Okay There's a lot of bad things and some of them could happen to me. But I think at some point there's nothing you can do about that I mean other than just quit and- and just resign yourself But if you opt to not do that and you step up and say, and if I die, I die&quot; and once you overcome that then... Nothing else to be afraid of. There's no one that wishes for peace more than people that have been to war. Because when the war drums sound it's my friends that are going to fight, that's- that's who's going to fight, it's my friends that are going So... When the, when the war drums sound the people that have been say, &quot;Let's think about this first&quot; Because... like I said before and they say it like, And when you take an 18 year old kid and you're going to where he's going to have to kill people and possibly get wounded that's a traumatic experience. And so before you do that, why you're doing it. And understand if, if... the people have the will to fight and the will to fight the will to fight is the will to kill And those are some pretty big Almost immediately we're going to... memorial services for army guys Marines that are killed which... you know, was a rude awakening. So... that's- that's the welcome to Ramadi. The welcome to Ramadi is you know, you're going to go and pay your respects to and- and there's firefights in the city. So we're- we're just There's firefights in the city all day, we're on the rooftop of our building, you sit there and watch We're shot at from, you know, There's... Yeah, it was it was legit. It was legit combat, bad scenario with How do you lead your men through that when you know they're which definitely take a psychological toll but then even that just I mean, do you have to switch up I got to lead stronger or maybe a little easier in certain Yes, you do have to modulate your- your leadership if you're in the business world, you have to do that You've got to modulate when your guys need when your guys need to be not pushed and given a rest. So you're constantly doing that. Regardless of what kind and in combat like, you know, it's amplified because if you push they're going to break. You know whereas in business, or maybe they do snap, I mean it does happen in where people like can't take it anymore. But... in combat, it'll happen very quickly. And- and so, you know, you do, and... taking measure of And you know, sometimes Sometimes I went Wow, I just saw He's, he needs a rest and I should have And... You know, you make mistakes no doubt. What I had on my side was I had experience and I had paid attention And when I was getting trained and there was no war and I'd hear a guy you know, someone whose name but a guy that if you're in the Seal Teams because they were a legit You hear them say something, and I would collect that That's what prepared me with listening to my elders. The Seal team Doctrine wasn't written down anywhere. It was all word of mouth and and passed down from And... Making sure that you're not being cocky, making sure that that you talked about earlier of you know, we're always We're always going to win and especially if you think then you're not going to prepare the, the way you should. You're not going to to your training to making sure for that moment when it comes. And it might come once on a deployment, it might not come on a deployment and it might come on a daily basis. The sentries that are trying to hold down the fort and protect all this enemy fire in would come a big truck, truck loaded bomb and they would just drive and detonate themselves and they did that on multiple occasions They did it times where they did it So that's how coordinated the enemy was they were, they knew Were you impressed by them? I didn't expect that to happen or did you ever have I absolutely always had respect. I respect the enemy absolutely and the minute you're to the enemy that's a lack humility You know, they, you- you have And whether your mission is or your mission is to produce something or sell something or manufacture something trying to get that team to be unified behind It doesn't matter what the mission is you're still dealing with human beings, you're still dealing with people. Whether you're in the Seal Teams or whether you're in the people that are working they're people and you and expect them to just If the military was like that then military leadership would You know, my guys wouldn't because I outrank them and I kind of get that funny look, I'm here because your employees aren't Can you just fire them? Don't they work for you? because you're in charge But all of a sudden they're not doing It's the same exact reason, and guess what? they want to be in charge they want to take ownership, That's how they want to go through life. They don't want to go through they want to be treated like a human. So... Don't talk to me about, because you had these you know, terminator robots In fact the opposite I had a bunch of hard-headed, you know, the guys that I had a bunch of hard headed, thick skulled guys that you know, I had to get them I had to get them to want to do what I wanted them to do. I had to make them think that That's the goal, that's what leadership is. And the worse your plan is thought out the less response you're going to get. And just like in business world the less input I get from you the less apt you are So when, when it comes to, when you have to go execute something, I'm not going to plan it for you. I want you to plan it. Now I'm going to come and we'll collaborate to because maybe I have or maybe I have some strategic But I want you to plan it that way you own it. And if you own it, you're going to put that That- that's hard to That is real if you come up with a plan, you're going to put more effort and more pride in executing that plan then if I come up with and tell you to execute it. That's just a reality. I don't, I don't, That's a reality. Ordering people to do things does not work. You actually have to lead them and than another buzzword out there is this- is... accountability. You know, you gotta be accountable, you gotta be, you gotta and- and to me accountability is a tool, it's a, it's a, it's a tool of leadership, but it's not... The primary tool of leadership. It's actually a crutch, it's actually a tool to use when So what you want to do you know, I- I- I talk I didn't hold my guys accountable, I didn't... You know, walk down the line No, I didn't have to They wanted to do the right thing they wanted to do what I had to hold them back Never mind make them do it and that's what leadership is. it's not about accountability it's about leading and getting them to lead themselves and getting them That's what, that's that's when you know, when you're just about out of a job, when you're sitting back because your front line troops is making things happen And the only time you have to step in or you see something getting But the ideal is that you can sit back, observe start looking at what the other other problems in other parts of the world But you can just let your people because they want to do it not because you have to breathe down Not the way to lead. And to that same young man you know the guys that What do you tell that- sees this thing and says, Well, first of all, be better than me. Crush me, make me look like a baby. That's what, that's what you do and- and don't... Don't talk about it, don't mull it over, don't plan for it just get after it. You get after it. Make it happen. Use your force of will to make it happen. As a human being, the strongest thing So take that force of will and make that happen.