I ago back in 2017. But anyone who has followed this channel for character arc. Back in 2017, I was but an ignorant fool. But now I'm older, wiser, I've read Judith Twice. All of these things have obviously helped With that being said, I think it's time what new lore we can uncover. When the Grimm Troupe content pack first dropped, Team Cherry was just throwing new characters who were already there. But looking back, the Grimm Troupe does more For example, we now have a new Higher Being The lore of the Grimm Troupe all starts with Seer gives us a very cryptic bit of dialogue And of course, she has to do it in poetry The expanse of dream in past was split, Darkest reaches, beating red, The Nightmare's Heart. Let's take this bit by bit. We know that there is a dream realm in the It's where the Radiance is. It's where the Pale King's corpse is. And even the Lifeblood creature appears to appearance of dream catcher particles in this It's not really clear if these are all different Realm. The Dream Realm where the Dreamers and Radiance which also looks very different from Bretta's If there is a distinction between these areas, However, we do know there is one special, Realm which was completely split off from While regular dreams are made up of Essence, type of burning Essence, which Grimm describes For simplicity's sake, I'll call this different But what exactly caused this split? These kinds of splits are common in creation Like how Zeus, Poseidon and Hades split up Or how the world of Dark Souls went from a by Lords. Even our own scientific understanding of the the fundamental forces of the universe were another. So lazy writing like this is kinda just how But that doesn't really help us answer why the Dream Realm. A pretty common theory is that the Radiance But there really isn't any evidence for Maybe if Grimm actually commented once on But he really doesn't seem to give two shits So whether this split was natural or caused are we'll never know. Anyway it seems like the Nightmare Heart is Nightmare Realm, and its design stands in we see in Hallownest. We've got a moth, a worm, a plant, a slug, of eyes on it. At the very core of it, the Nightmare Heart to how the Radiance is composed of a light And while the Nightmare Heart may seem different does have one thing in common with them. It really likes to mess around with regular In order to survive, the Nightmare Heart needs so that it can feed off the flames of ruined Basically, ancient, abandoned kingdoms like Nightmare Essence, so the main way the Nightmare these kingdoms and harvest the Essence for And this ritual happens over and over as an Of course, finding kingdoms is the first step in the Howling Cliffs. This bug is wearing a makeshift mask that Troupe members wear. Dream nailing this bug brings a device called This lantern seems to act as a sort of anchor causes the Grimm Troupe to arrive in Hallownest. If we dream nail the corpse again, it says apart from kin. It pains me so." God, what a simp. This bug apparently has some kind of job that to Hallownest. So it seems like the Grimm Troupe actually kingdoms. Once they get there... well... I'm not sure. Do they just die once they reach a kingdom? Or did this particular bug die before it could We have to dream nail the lantern out of it. Maybe this is a litmus test for anyone who to have some access to the Dream Realm. Otherwise they probably wouldn't be able first place. Now we don't know if these bugs are just know how to reach these kingdoms. The Godseeker and Quirrel mention that the Which is odd. How the hell is the wind blowing towards one Oddly enough, the Pale King does have some The Monarch Wings and the King's Brand also But Wind Lore in Hollow Knight is a whole later. Anyway, the Godseeker also detected the Pale but I personally don't think the Grimm Troupe appear to have a Godtuner device like the Instead, I'm guessing a large amount of they can find civilizations that could be So the Grimm Troupe emphasizes just how barren The Nightmare King's Dream Nail dialogue lands... Nightmare binds all." This implies that the Grimm Troupe uses the kingdoms, which is what we see when we light I don't think it would be a stretch to say And as it turns out, the Grimm Troupe might outside Hallownest really looks like. Hidden within the Grimm Troupe's tent is some tricky wall jumps. In this room we can see some chests, a pile Now there are a few theories as to what this At the very least, we know it's important One idea is that it is some kind of device and the Nightmare Realm. Or it could somehow be related to Grimm's stuff. But if we look at the ingame art files, the So I think this device is actually supposed Now of course, an art file name is by no means anyway, so let's just have some fun with But bear in mind this is by no means conclusive. So is this thing a chart of the real world Unfortunately, none of that is clear. But these balls are possibly points of interest various locations they have traveled to over Sort of like web addresses that point to specific Like twitter.com/mossbag69, or discord.gg/mossbag And I'm sure you've already noticed that So does that mean there are at least 18 other What other crazy world could be out there? Water World? Moon World? New Jersey? However, if this really is supposed to be it's really weird looking. Why does the world of Hollow Knight vaguely It honestly looks more like some kind of planetary Which might make sense. These kingdoms could all be deep underground. We aren't even sure if Hallownest is on It appears to be, but we can't see any stars Maybe the Land of Storms is on the surface maybe these weather patterns were created once there already. So a three dimensional map like this could It's not like they would have a map on a And it's not that big of a stretch to assume of map to help them navigate around. And if this is actually a chart of the Nightmare like anything to be believable. But at the end of the day, there really isn't answer to what this thing is eludes us. Getting back to the Nightmare Lantern, whoever with the Grimm Troupe, all without so much The Grimm Troupe is summoned to Dirtmouth to be harvested of its Nightmare Essence. The Grimm Troupe of course has a troupe master, Grimm has a unique aesthetic, which has made He looks like a Gen 7 Starter Pokemon. Like can he even be considered a bug of any I've heard some people say that he's supposed Looks absolutely nothing like that to me. Might as well say he's a Caterpillar MD6250 No, Grimm and his troupe appear to be a hodgepodge Regardless of what kind of bug Grimm may be, He's got the long flowing cape, he can explode seems to borrow quite a lot of concepts from And you've got the whole creepy traveling Although, it's not a very good circus. They just set up a tent and then expect the Kinda the opposite of how that's supposed When the Knight first talks to Grimm, he gives Well, he gives a very brief, very vague explanation. He gives the Knight the Grimmchild charm and been collecting Nightmare Essence throughout Using the Grimmchild, the Knight will be able the Essence inside the Grimmchild. Once returned, the Grimmchild then evolves that the Grimmchild might have fed off these But it's not just the flames of Hallownest's off of. According to Grimm, it can also feed off the the Grimm boss fight. There is also one other way the Grimmchild himself. Yes, like most things in Hollow Knight, it The Nightmare King can be fought after collecting all throughout Hallownest. Once this is done, Grimm can be found sleeping Dream nailing Grimm takes the Knight to the There we can find the Nightmare Heart, surrounded We then see the Nightmare Heart suffer from Nightmare King emerges from inside. The Nightmare King is basically just a much but with more flame on his attacks. According to more poetry, the Troupe wants to the Grimmchild. Once this is accomplished, the Grimmchild's the Nightmare Heart. And everyone involved with the Grimm Troupe Well, almost everyone, but we'll get to So basically, we dream nailed into Grimm, King inside it, and then that got fed to Grimm and now the heart has been transferred over From here, we can assume that the Grimmchild own troupe, and move away and never call home Now that's cool and all but it raises some What is the rest of the Grimm Troupe doing Do they just sit around and wait for the grown Also, if this little guy is the new Grimm, of the Black Egg. Will Grimm be trapped with us in there forever? Does he get completely destroyed in the Dream And then of course we have the Embrace the Does Grimm just get completely consumed by The point is, the Knight is probably the last in charm form. Cuz there really aren't any endings that But of course, there is more to the Grimm We also have the Grimmkin, as well as characters We get the best insight into Grimm's entourage Perhaps you suspect that they hide their true You'd be right. They favour projection over truth, shrouding Best be careful. Assisting them might benefit you, but who Digging into this dialogue, we can see two You've got the Grimmkin who appear to be They can teleport around and even show up Then you've got bugs like Brumm, Divine, normal bugs. And I'm using the phrase "normal bugs" The one thing all these characters have in Even the bug outside the kingdom is wearing more like a third rate cosplay than an actual Now I have talked about masks a lot on this My Mask Maker video, my King's Pass Video, of The Mask starring Jim Carrey mentions them. But that's no surprise. Masks are very mysterious and important to But Jiji doesn't actually mention the masks Instead she says that the Grimm Troupe prefers dreamed. This could be referring to how Grimmkin are They come in three forms: Novices, Masters, It seems that as they become more devoted in their appearance. But from what we see in the Grimm Troupe tent, This might imply that the Grimmkin use masks the real world. Perhaps that is even the case with Grimm himself. But that claim is pretty speculative, so don't There are plenty of ghosts that don't have with the real world. But what is clear is that these masks do have pretty clearly with Brumm. During the last phase of harvesting Essence, far away from the eyes of Grimm. Brumm laments the never ending cycle of the in banishing the Troupe from Hallownest forever. If the Knight goes through with this request Cliffs, Grimm's tent disappears from Dirtmouth looking Brumm, under a new name, Nymm. Nymm gives us a very clear look at how the As Brumm, he had no memory of his past life, As Nymm, he is more carefree and has forgotten More surprisingly, however, Nymm has also That's rough, buddy. The mask itself appears to be transformed protection to anyone who wears it. We can see that the mask still radiates with that come off the Knight when it activates. So that sort of ties the masks to having a Confessor Jiji mentioned. Nymm's experience also closely parallels To change a face; to conceal it fully within A powerful protection that is, but one with The original mind is destroyed, though those of that concealed self. Nymm's mask made him bigger and connected and it only came back because he fought back he used to be more than just a vessel. So it seems like these masks basically brainwash Heart. Maybe these bugs were all forced to serve referring to when she mentions those who would This gives us an interesting contrast. Mask Maker says he makes masks for those who But the Nightmare Heart uses it as a way to own goals. Of course, working as a slave under the Heart in the wasteland that covers much of the world, And since I talked about Brumm so much, I Her job within the Grimm Troupe is to... well, She talks about how she can smell something that Leg Eater sells. You can give her these charms which she will and shitting them out. Yeah... I'm not sure why Grimm keeps her around. Divine doesn't even leave with the Grimm finishing her side quest. I mean, from a gameplay perspective it's But lore wise it doesn't make any sense. I guess Grimm just doesn't really care if Also I guess she has more autonomy than Brumm Instead you need to get all the unbreakable seek out Divine. Which well... that doesn't go well for him. However, if you choose to banish the Grimm didn't get the unbreakable charms, then And then we have the Grimmsteeds. These bugs appear to be the same species as Some people have pointed out that Willoh's might have been a part of the Grimm Troupe It's clearly just red because it's covered In conclusion, the Grimm Troupe is a traveling known as the Nightmare Heart. They use the Nightmare Realm to fast travel world, harvesting Nightmare Essence to prolong Masks are perhaps used to keep these bugs But despite that, some bugs are able to fight player to decide what fate should befall these Of course, most likely the player won't that decision is made completely arbitrarily. One final thing to note is that Grimm is known away. And while Jiji finds Grimm unfamiliar, she going on with the Troupe. This helps us realize how learned these characters White Lady, but more so for Jiji. This character has a lot going on that we And so there you have it. I felt bad leaving the Grimm Troupe mostly was a lot to discuss here. As for future Hollow Knight content, I know somehow starved for content. But that couldn't be further from the truth. There are plenty of other lore things I could I could make another Zote video. And there is some more stuff to talk about And I really want to do a deep dive into the whether or not Zote is a liberatarin.