Mr. Mo has a meeting with Mr. Zhou tomorrow. No improper grooming Mr. Mo remembered to pay last night's expenses. Use the extra money to buy a gift that the girl will like good After 5 years, I still can't raise a white-eyed wolf. mo xicheng 5 years I still can't warm your heart Secretary Qiao, you are finally back. Mr. Mo doesn't know what happened today. He was not optimistic about the Chengdong project at first. But I lost my temper because Mr. Zhou didn't come. By the way, I heard that Mr. Mo's fiancee is coming back. It seems that I will return to China with the old lady next month How dare this old guy Zhou Jiande break the appointment? Mr. Mo just got a call from Mr. Zhou's secretary Said Mrs. Zhou was sick let me apologize to you Why are you here? Go out etc. Get me a drink do you want tea or coffee Is the tea iced or hot? Is it iced with sugar or milk? Add milk OK Who said I want tea I'd like coffee according to your request Hot coffee with sugar The president has a dinner party tonight It's with that perverted DW Dorman I heard that he especially likes to play with female employees. Even the CEO's sister dares to harass her Don't worry, he won't let me go I give Mr. Zhou a black tie in your name Don't forget when you get there good By the way, there's a dinner party tonight Join me for a moment Mo oops Mo You have such a beautiful young lady by your side Why didn't I know this before? qiaohua Do you sit here or over there? Of course you sit here with me Come, come, come Come Come sit Why Mr. Dorman, I respect you. good I'll pour it for you again baby You are such a little sweetheart Mo How much can you give me as your secretary? Dorman, she has been with me for 5 years This little money shouldn't be enough to lure her away. Mr. Dorman Mr. Mo said to give in I will follow whoever I follow. OK OK That's great Oops, sorry Mr. Dorman It doesn't matter Just help me change into another one in our lounge. Go, go, go, go Mr. Mo If you soil your clothes, naturally you have to deal with them. let's go baby Let's go Mr. Dorman i am a gentleman For a beautiful woman like you I will definitely be very, very gentle Mr. Mo Your stomach is not good to begin with Why are you drinking so much alcohol? Mr. Mo Is your body really okay? Mo xicheng, if you have had a dog for 5 years, you should have feelings for it, right? You actually gave me to another man like this let's make a deal trade? little sweetheart any transaction Nothing is as important as what we have to do now I'm Mr. Mo's chief secretary Are you sure you won't need me in the future? What you mean is that you will betray him? Didn't he just send me here with his own hands? It seems so too How about this to show your sincerity Not as good as You send Mo Xicheng's sister to my bed How about it Mr. Mo said he wanted to sign a contract knew Don't lie to me Otherwise, I'll kill you huahua, please read the news Mo Xicheng, President of Mo Group He is about to get married to Niyun, the daughter of Beini Technology Mo xicheng, our shameful relationship It's time to end too Qiao Hua boarding I can't afford Mr. Mo's car Mr. Mo is outside Can you go to the lounge with Dorman? But you can't get into my car? Don't you think I'm dirty, Mr. Mo? I stayed with Dorman in the lounge for 20 minutes Enough for a complete set what are you doing go to hospital From now on I resign Don't take me with you wherever you go from now on. Joshua, it's not your turn now, so you can't do it if you don't want to. Give her a good check-up lie down on it Miss qiao Don't waste time Just take off your clothes and I'll take a sample. moxicheng the humiliation you gave me I remember Is the inspection done? Mr. Mo, I am about to resign. There is really no need for you to send me for a full physical examination. Qiao Hua Don't forget The contract will be terminated within 5 years of the contract signed. Liquidated damages 10 million Mr. Mo is really a good calculator. That leaves three months Can you let me go to the branch to learn something new? Do you mean you want to escape? of course not these five years I'm very grateful for your cultivation It's just that your fiancee is coming back You don't want me to stay with you anymore Cultivation? You mean bed cultivation? Then you are really bad at studying. There has been no progress at all in the past five years. Mr. Mo I remember you didn't like things that other people used. The test said you are healthy That's lucky Dorman is not sick Can you please have some face? Have you ever given me face? Just let me lose face Who gave you the confidence? Dare you talk to me like that? Don't forget Is your mother in a nursing home? The cost is not low either Thank you Mr. Mo for taking care of my mother these past few years. I will never forget your kindness Now that you've made your choice Don't regret it No matter what troubles you encounter from now on I won't even bother you Xu Zheng Arrange Qiao Hua under the Mo Group Real Estate Company Let her start with sales But what about the position of chief secretary? empty Qicheng machine chip project has been launched When do you have time, come back with me and take a look? In two days, maybe Qiao Hua Mr. Yin, you are definitely being demoted. I'm just short of a CEO position. Are you interested in joining my company? Was there no one in the company yesterday? Dig people to come to me Of course there is But something as powerful as strengthening I don't want to miss any of them Rather than let your pearls fall into dust after being demoted by you Why don't you go to my place and shine? I'd rather look at you Can it be poached? Sincerity leads to spirituality I sincerely want to poach you later. Thank you Mr. Yin for your kindness But I haven't thought about my career plan yet fine Zerui Group's big plans are always open to you The day after tomorrow I will go to the sales office in the west of the city Let's talk in detail then Okay, thank you Mr. Yin If there's nothing else, I'll leave first Been around for a few years Come on, I don't dare to start. Why I heard that Mr. Mo's chief secretary was sent down. I'm afraid the chief secretary won't be my constant companion. But he looks pretty good-looking What's the use of being pretty? Being in sales is not just about looking good. You are a clever girl Hello Brother Gang has no experience in finding a manager He was also transferred to our group He is deliberately dragging down our group's performance If there's nothing wrong with the manager, I'll go to work first. What to pretend to be They have all been kicked out by the Secretariat. I thought I was the chief secretary Brother Gang, why are you so anxious with him? There's a chance I'll help you wake up the secretary Talk to Mr. Zhou directly Haven't found it yet? Sorry Mr. Mo Not found waste Hello, the number you dialed is currently unavailable. Just stay in there well. lady Anyone lady I can't stand it anymore. I just left and I didn't even answer the phone. Mr. Mo, why are you here suddenly? Call Zhang Gang over here Where are the people? Mr. Momo has changed Let him come out to see me He went to run business run business run business why don't you answer the phone Maybe I didn't pay attention I don't care what you can do Now immediately Let him come out to see me I'll listen right away immediately I'll give it up Where is my rescue? I put him in the toilet What should I do? I have no idea Brother Gang, why don't you help me get it out? If Mr. Mo finds out, I'll be doomed. Wait here go from behind Be careful Go check the monitoring It's the mobile phone and bag I found on Secretary Qiao's Guild But the company's monitoring system is being repaired I wonder if something happened to Secretary Qiao? There's no way he doesn't have his cell phone with him I heard that Moxi City is looking for Qiao Hua. It seems like he got very angry What happened to Xicheng Qiaohua? I also want to know I haven't been able to contact him for a day say talk talk talk talk talk I'm here I'm here speech speech Rush, rush Xiao Hua Xiao Hua Xiao Hua Xiao Hua floret What's wrong with you What's wrong with her Yun Duo I just came here too I do not know how it happened I'm about to take her to the hospital Hey, don't go Don't slow down, don't move Slower woke up The doctor said you have a high fever of 39 degrees. Thank you for taking me to the hospital I'm looking for you when I'm fine But why are you so sick? I'm not that squeamish If you weren't locked in the toilet I'll just go home and take a nap. What happened today I saw a maintenance sign placed at the door of the toilet. And locked the door Did someone do it on purpose? I don't know either Just ask when I get to work tomorrow. You're so sick and you still go to work? In a new job, you have to achieve some results first. Have you thought it through? Come to my place and be the chief administrative officer. Have you thought it through? Come to my place and be the chief administrative officer. I don't plan to change jobs in the past three months That's okay Since you don't come Then I'll make an opening for you There is a problem with the company's cooperation project Mr. Ding, please go and do your work first. I can do it myself Then I'll see you again when I have time okay The first 102 is Hello I want to pay Okay This lady Your fees have already been paid by someone. Miss Mo's medical bills have been paid Inherit me and Yueyue will go back soon The wedding is ready to begin Manager Zhang's order yesterday Sun Meng helped you with a lot of work yesterday He helps you through the process. What does this order mean? Do you think it's appropriate? I didn't say that Xiao Qiao, everyone is a colleague Why are the single and double orders so clearly distinguished? I haven't investigated what happened yesterday yet. I signed that order Why should it be blamed on you? Look Please figure out your own identity Who gave you the courage to speak like this? Didn't do any work I still want a commission You think beautifully Manager Zhang is so majestic. How dare you say that to Mr. Mo's chief executive secretary? Secretary Zhou why are you here If I don't come and take a look how do you know How did Manager Zhang Na embarrass her subordinates? Misunderstand It's all misunderstanding Sister Qiao, you are also true Why did you quit your job and come to a place like this? Change the environment Mr. Mo can't live without you at all Mr. Mo lost his temper in the company today We can't handle it at all for what reason There's another problem with that piece of land in the west of the city. Sister Qiao, please come back to the company with me. Okay, I'll go back with you Well let's go Didn't I say that? Don't bother me, get out I bought your favorite mung bean cake in Chengxi And a cup of freshly ground coffee 70% milk, 70% sugar Do you want to try it? Why is it yours? I heard Mr. Mo was in a bad mood As a former member of the Secretariat Of course I want to come back to see you Still somewhat conscientious Mr. Guo is still in the mood to tease me Didn't the land to the east of the city collapse a long time ago? How could something go wrong? It was already settled But that old guy Zhou Jiande insisted on saying I would rather pay the pseudo-industry soldiers than lose money. Maybe I am Mr. Zhou Is it because Mrs. Zhou doesn't want to sell? How to say It is said that Mrs. Zhou grew up in the city And Mr. Zhou is also a famous wife I think this matter should be started with Mrs. Zhou I haven't forgotten what I taught you. How about Sister Qiao? By the way, let me tell you something first. Things to note about Mr. Mu Um The most important thing He is allergic to peaches A little peach can make him faint Is Xiao Hua free tomorrow? I'll take you to Dongyuan Resort Villa See if I can help you expand your customers Dongyuan Resort Villa Isn't that invested by Mo Group? Okay, I'm free. Thank you. Mom, don't worry I will definitely give you a better life Miss Qiao, how did you hook up with Mr. Yin? Just tell me, right? Can you teach us any skills? We've known each other for a long time Why are you pretending to be noble? He is different We are here to sell I really can't bear to see him like this Qiao Hui I do that project every day Sister Qiao, why did you fall? Mr. Yin, please pay attention to your safety. Don't catch a cold I'm fine. How are you? Since it's okay How long are you going to stay in the arms of my sister's fiance? Isn't it embarrassing? Go change clothes quickly Xicheng, please be more polite. Let's go. I'll take you to change clothes first. Are you okay? It's okay, I just thought my sister-in-law would be happy for everyone I've caused you trouble What's the trouble Mr. Lin, let's keep our distance. Otherwise, Miss Mo should be angry Then you rest first I'm going out first Qiao Han, stop for me what are you How dare you seduce Ze Ye Qiao Han, stop for me what are you How dare you seduce Ze Ye When did I seduce him? Why are you pretending to go to the resort with him? Isn't it just playing with the temptation of losing one's virginity? He doesn't help Help Sorry, Mr. Mu Mu's ghost house is in the lower hall How do you run your company? You don't have to worry about the news company's affairs Take care of your daughter when you have time Why don't you go to the police station and bail your sister out? Go find out what's going on Mr. Mo, I, Dongmai, are waiting for you in the conference room. make them wait Police uncle He was the one who seduced my fiance first. Thanks for your hard work elder brother You finally came Why Go and settle with the police uncle Why I will compensate you Video of Mo Qianqian beating someone in the last days The stock price has been affected What video? Who dares not to take it seriously? idiot Do you know why the old man didn't give you any shares? Just because you and your dad have similar IQs Mu Xicheng, how dare you hit me? If you dare not cooperate I've finished this matter What's waiting for you when you go back is Jia Fa Let's go Finish this matter I'll give you another 10 million Mr. Mo is so generous But compared to money I want a promise more You are negotiating terms with me Then let the public relations department handle it. Do you think the PR department can't solve it? I am the party involved It's most cost-effective if I handle it Qiao Hua, do you know Not handled well You are the one who will end up the worst Don't worry, give me two hours I will handle a press conference cleanly for you This is how you plan to attend the press conference Add at most one more mask After all, in the video, someone was beaten so hard that he was covered in injuries. But the injured press conference will be more convincing two hours Understand immediately The rest of the press conference will be left entirely to Qiao Hua. Go and send Zhang Gang a dismissal document There will be a press conference in two hours Arrange the venue immediately You go call and ask Miss Mo to come over. Everyone, hurry up and break up the meeting What are you watching? Hurry up and get busy Miss, you are the victim in this matter Did you get compensation from Mohs? Miss, when you stand here, you have reconciled with Miss Mo. Is it okay, miss? How much did Mo's give you? Is it true that no one has discovered who I am? I am Qiao Hua, former chief secretary of Mo Group I am Qiao Hua, former chief secretary of Mo Group Why how so It's because you have a conflict with Miss Mo Will he humiliate you in public? In fact, this is just an internal test of the company Ms. Mo is just appearing as a friend. I kiss The pressure is really great This is my first time playing a bad girl You said that video was acting Mohs Group is celebrating its 50th anniversary We receive a lot of anonymous reports Talk about the many sales offices under Mo's There are service and security risks For this reason, we have conducted tests at all major sales offices Test the emergency response capabilities of the person in charge of the sales office It's a pity that it's noon today The person in charge of the Chengxi Sales Office failed the test For this reason we gave him the sanction of expulsion. Such a test is too unreasonable How dare the person in charge disobey Miss Mo? Manager Zhang has worked in the apocalypse for 5 years It's impossible for him not to know the rules of the end of the world Who knows if it is your public relations method? What kind of hatred can there be between Miss Mo and me? I have no position at all in Mo Group I have almost no contact with Secretary Qiao. Originally, the test site had to be cleared But for the sake of real effect We just chose to make it public I didn't expect it would cause such a big misunderstanding. Taking up social resources I'm very sorry It is reported that Miss Qiao You are no longer the chief secretary of Mo Group In what capacity do you speak again today? I am deeply supported by Mr. Mo When I left my job before, it was just a change in my career plan. Don't need me I have no reason not to participate If the video hadn't been spread too widely Everyone may not know My acting skills are so superb, right? Qiaohua Just wait for me I'm not done with you I should say this to you Our accounts will be settled slowly later. Secretary Qiao is so majestic Aren't you afraid that I'll touch your mother? Try moving it Count you You are just a dog that works for my Mo family. Not worthy of threatening me Do you want to know the secret of strengthening? Who are you? You really have his secret. specific situation See you at Deao Hotel 807 You'd better tell the truth Otherwise I'll make you unable to eat and walk around in circles If you are fooled, you can close the net. Mr. Surman I've done it Tomorrow night at 7pm Room 807, Deao Hotel Mo Qianqian, I didn't want to ruin your innocence. But you go too far I hope this lesson can teach you how to behave Hello entertainment daily? Tomorrow at 7pm Room 807, Deo Hotel There is a big bank Where is God? Bah, you dare to be late The little thing really didn't lie to me Who are you? You went to the wrong room, right? I am the one sent by Cupid to love you What do you want to do? what can be done What can a man and a woman alone do? Well, what do you dare to do to me? My brother will never let you go What are you doing? I'm timid and I have a bad heart Don't scare me open I'm going to go fast Big news hurry up do it quickly Help let me go let me go Miss Mu What is your current relationship with Liu? Shut up and get out of here Get out of here There is news about your brother Say you are running out of news Who are you? Who let you in? this is my private room Get out of here Get out of here quickly How much does it cost to go out and join the company as president? Give me control of him Why Mo This is a misunderstanding Misunderstood Mo Don't get me wrong Isn't it Qianqian? Is everything okay? Take him to the police station If I don't go, I'll go find you You don't want to be with me, right? Oh, you still hit me let me go Ms. Qiao, Mr. Mo invites you Can I not go? you should know Sister-in-law Mo Miss Qiao has arrived speech You don't want to live anymore, right? I don't I don't want to hear your nonsense anymore Mo Ganxian was brought back to his old house by the old man Dorman was detained As long as one of them pulls you out Do you know what will happen? He will not and does not have this opportunity From the police station to now I'm afraid Durman has already lost. Of course he has lost But even if he speaks Mr. Mo can't hear it either You won't let those words reach Mr. Mo's ears What makes you think I would do this? Because I'm yours Said I wanted to harm Miss Mo Mr. Mo will believe it And you promised me a condition You are a person who keeps your promises You are not mine anymore You are not mine anymore tell me Who lent you your courage? Do you need to borrow it? I've been cornered So you want Duolman to destroy Mo Qianqian My timing is very accurate If something happens like this That means evil people have their own tricks You did this to her It's because Mo Qianqian has been causing trouble for you recently. And a cup of hot coffee from two years ago i will always remember The feeling of her pampering and arrogant splashing on my face Qiao Huan Why didn't I think you were so vindictive before? If you find out that I am such a vicious person How can I be your personal secretary? Qiao Hua, if you were so funny before You don't have to suffer so much Back to the Secretariat I gave you double the treatment before you refuse Then be lovers for five more years signature Mr. Mo, I have been playing with you for 5 years Do you really want me to waste another 5 years of my youth? Besides, your fiancee wants came back What should I do then good I'll give you three more days It's not up to you whether you sign or not when the time comes. By the way, these three days may not be peaceful. Then you can stay with your friend for a while I've already taken care of the matter Really? Have you forgotten someone? No more fish slipping through the net Don't you go deal with Qiao Hua? Do you want me to do it myself? He has nothing to do with this matter Why should I deal with him? Don't think I'm old You blocked the message again I don't know anything anymore then you should know Now the company is fully under my care And Mo Qianqian is getting more and more excessive. Then it's not my daughter's turn to be taught a lesson by someone else. I think it would be better for her to learn a lesson. If you don't want to She doesn't even have a decent fiance Just don't worry about how I handle it Are you thinking the opposite? I don't I want to tell you that I am in charge of the Mo family now Oh, right You'd better think about how to secure the Yin family's engagement. Ziyi You finally came Tell me clearly what happened today So nothing happened between me and Norman How dare that ugly creature stop thinking about me? I must kill him So how can you say that? Don't want to help me seek justice Do you think the Mo family's legal team is in vain? Of course they would put Dorman on the boat And Qiao Hua? That bitch I hate him for controlling me What evidence do you have that this incident is related to him? no evidence required He must have planned this incident He just wants to harm me Qiuhua, I will never let you go. Sister Ni when are you going back to China Mr. Mo, what do you want from me? You've gained a lot of attention from Xicheng recently without It's just that Qiao Hua left Hou Mo has used it quite often. Why There is no need to say anything modest in front of me. I'll ask you What do you mean to the people in the secretariat? Especially Qiao Hua, does he understand? I understand fairly well What about his mother? Mr. Mo is always talking about Qiao Hua's mother. Do you think Mo Yicheng has a big backer? Or will I have a strong backer? Mr. Mo Of course it's you Hahaha, I just like your understanding of current affairs. It's been two days There's nothing going on outside have no idea Mo Qianqian has no scandal again She probably didn't find out that this matter had anything to do with you. Mr. Mo is the helmsman of the Mo family after all. It's not like he can't even find out this little thing Could it be that Mexico City is protecting you? How can he protect me? He just has some agenda What does he want? He wants me to be young again I've seen shameless people I've never seen him so shameless In another five years It will be difficult to get married by then Auntie will definitely worry about you My mom My mom She hasn't contacted me for a long time The nursing staff at the nursing home didn't call me either. Don't worry first Call your aunt and ask Auntie is far away from here Nothing may happen Feed mom how are you doing recently Why did Huahua call me suddenly? I'm worried about you and ask how you are you do not need to worry It's important that you take care of yourself alone in Beicheng Okay, don't worry I will take care of myself Right mom I'll pick you up after a while Let's go back to our hometown together good Mom is waiting for you who are you Why are you locking me here? Just stay here We won't do anything to you If you dare to run around We can't guarantee it Feed mom Yueyue and I will return to China tomorrow Remember to pick you up at the airport Why did you come back early? You don't welcome us back? no I'll pick it up I heard that Mr. Mo's fiancee is going back to China. What about some people who want to be the president's wife? It's better to save some energy. After all, this is a wealthy family. Do you mean you can get in just by entering? Mo Xicheng is this bastard He's not even a bastard He just carries Teddy's shoes. that is One day I will let him take charge I asked my boss to kneel on the floor and pick up my shoes. If you have such good ambitions, you will torture him severely when the time comes. Then give him a few big mouth slaps with your backhand Give him a few big blows Come and cheers Where are you I'm drinking at Yaoyao's house Oops cheers You won't come back if you don't get drunk. Don't go home until you're drunk Real food Who wants to open the door at night? oops Who is it? put me down The 3-day deadline has expired Why do you always go to other people's places? What's the 3-day deadline for you to get up? Don't you know I like being on top? Laizuizi Were you scolding me just now? What's wrong? What's wrong with scolding you? I tell you One day I want you to call me Mr. Qiao Hey, don't vomit I'll take a shower first You're going to give me a bath later, do you hear me? say Chopper, you are really good. I don't know what I did last night. I can even twist my feet. Even if you speak ill of others behind their back, you won't be afraid of biting your tongue. Hello Ms. Li I have a house here that meets your expectations Could you please see if you have time to view the house recently? Hey, ok, ok Hey, when will you treat me to dinner? This has been dragging on for several days Then tonight How about going to Bikong Pavilion? You can't see it You turned out to be a little rich woman Bikong Pavilion is usually hard to find. Hey, I'm afraid that other people will stare at me and look down on me. Isn't this just a case of heavy bleeding? Well, see you at Bikong Pavilion that evening OK Just order these Please bring me another bottle of red wine. Thank you. The membership card here is Sent from Mexico City I did not mean anything else Just ask Anyway, you are not his secretary now. It doesn't matter at all, right? Then don't use his card I'll give it to you next time I won't come to this kind of place often if I don't need it. Can't afford it Miss Qiao This is the drink you ordered This has been opened, right? This is the homemade wine in our restaurant Oh, thank you This is obviously the last time I came to have dinner with Mo Xicheng. There seemed to be only so much wine left at that time. Does Mo Xicheng know that I am eating here? Mr. Duan, thank you for your help in the past few times. Ouch, Fangfang is so polite to say this. Then let's have dessert OK The ice cream here tastes really good This is the flower you put there I thought about it for a long time I specially prepared this for you Hua Hua promise me Qiaohua Try agreeing to his proposal I didn't strengthen Use my card to treat other men to dinner You are so awesome I used your card to reserve the location. But it's my own money I spent. So you are really powerful let him go Deng Zihao Has it been so long that you forgot your identity? Do you go with him or with me? Do you go with him or with me? Mr. Deng, I'll go out and have a chat with Mr. Mo. The food will come soon You eat first Mr. Mo, please slow down. My feet hurt. If your feet hurt, can you have dinner with Deng Zihao? Xicheng Xicheng, are you coming here to eat too? Um Secretary Qiao, are you here too? Excuse me I didn't notice you just now Are you coming to dinner with Xicheng? No, I came here with my friend I happened to meet Mr. Mo Come out and have a chat This girlfriend this is my friend If nothing else happens, we'll leave first. obedient Qiaohua If nothing happens, Mr. Mo, we will leave first. Let's go Joe get up Isn't this Qiao Painter? Who? I Open the door for me quickly Mr. Mo, it's too late. Go back. Do you want your neighbors to sue you for nuisance? Just open the door for me quickly Who said you and Deng Zihao left? Isn't Mr. Wang getting married? You still have time to care about me Even if I want to get married Should it be mine or mine? Are you going to force me to be a mistress? I did not mean that There is no way I can sign the agreement. Please don't come here again, Mr. Mo. It's not up to you to decide whether to sign or not. Do you know how long it took me to get back? I have no idea I don't want to know either Then I don't want to leave tonight I won't leave no My mother forced me to go there Mr. Mo was joking The huge Moh Group Mr. Mo can control everything Aren't you afraid of your mother? My dad betrayed my dad early on With Meng Qianqian's mother My mother was not only cuckolded And he doesn't know yet My dad has raised relatives outside the home for 10 years There are children My mother couldn't accept it for a while and she wanted to commit suicide. That The rescue was timely My mother fainted But then her mood changed drastically Divorced my dad He also took away half of the family property in the last days. But he didn't take me away The purpose is to make me the heir to the Mo Group Don't let him become a joke in other people's mouths Although he has not been with me these years But every day someone reports to him my whereabouts Every move I make is under his watch. Then don't you feel depressed? If I don't suppress it My mother forced me to commit suicide are you pregnant Hot weather Have a bad appetite? Come to Wanmi Cafe Mrs. Xin sit down Fill in the number yourself Leave Xicheng Fill in the number yourself Leave Xicheng Mrs. Xin thinks highly of me too much I definitely won't accept this check. How has Mr. Mo been doing these past few years? I've given everything that should be given to me So you don't have to give me any extra money Yeah What about you? Still working in a real estate company owned by Mo Group Why were you with Xicheng yesterday? Mrs. Jin had an accident yesterday As for why I am still working in the apocalypse It's because there is a contract between me and Mr. Mo The 5-year period has not yet come if i resign 10 million yuan in liquidated damages I'll pay the liquidated damages for you, Mrs. Xing I think you understand Mr. Mo's character better than I do if he doesn't agree Even if you pay me liquidated damages, it's useless I will solve this matter as long as you leave Miss Qiao Xicheng is getting married soon What happened when he stayed at your house last night? I don't want you to appear again Where is Mr. Mo? Let him come to see me. Mr. Mo is in a meeting Madam, if you have anything to do, just tell us directly. Go and get Qiao Hua's employment contract for us. Mr. Mo may not agree Why don't my words count in the company? If I had known earlier, I wouldn't have paid much money Please wait a moment I'll make a phone call first Mr. Li's wife wants to transfer Can I give him Qiao Hua's employment contract? Of course, what the lady wants will be given. this kind of thing You have to ask me okay, got it Qiao Hua said It's because there is still a contract that cannot be left within 5 years. Do not worry I'm going to destroy this contract tomorrow I won't let him stay here anymore Affect your inherited marriage Thank you, aunt, for thinking about us so much You are my son and daughter-in-law I don't think about you, but who does I think about? Mom, how is my wedding dress folded? dad what are you doing mom you do it again You must make a clean break with that Qiao Hua I don't care how you played before But you are going to marry Yunyun Do you still plan to have an affair in marriage like your father? I'll take care of it No matter how urgent the wedding is I don't have time to deal with it for you Don't Now the contract is gone He leaves you and makes a clean break Don't make me do anything else good Mom, please go out I'm ready for work you are my son do not let me down Just pretend you didn't see it, right? No deliberately avoiding me I heard that Mrs. Xin is going to the company today Tear up my employment contract You are quite well informed. But I tore up a copy of the contract I have one more how Mo always wants to go against the new wife's wishes Let me continue to work in the ink room You just want to leave right And I don't want to pay any penalty I really have a good white-eyed wolf Why do you always force me to become a mistress? what are you talking nonsense When did I let you be my mistress? After you get married to Miss Ni, Naturally I am the mistress This is a fact Besides, I've already received the check from the signer's wife. I hope you won't come to me again in the future Don't force me to move world Qiaohua Good on you There is no harm in who seduces you here You are just a mistress bad woman bad woman vixen bad woman vixen bad woman no no I'm not feed your sister I just saw Qiao Hua in the obstetrics and gynecology department of the hospital. She seems to be pregnant with my brother's child Does he know about Xicheng? Probably don't know Otherwise he wouldn't have gone to the hospital alone I won't let him give birth to the Mo family's child How can that be done? After all, this is also a child from Xicheng That's an illegitimate child too your sister I will definitely deal with this child cleanly I won't let Qiao Hua have a chance to compete with you for position. You'd better seek Qiao Hua's opinion. After all, you can't force this kind of thing Your sister, you are too kind Don't worry about this I'm going to get rid of it now No. 45 Qiao Hua No. 45 Qiao Hua mom I don't want to have an abortion I heard about a girl who is the same age as me Just because of abortion Can't get pregnant anymore I am afraid no That boyfriend of yours is not responsible at all. You must not keep this child The mother of the baby is reluctant to part with it Is it okay for your mother to raise you by herself? Now that everyone is here Then just keep the child Good for everyone Wu Qianqian, why are you here? Nature is doing justice for heaven Eradicate this child from your belly You don't seem to have the right to decide whether my child will stay or go? This is the illegitimate son of the Mo family Why don't I have the right? This is not from the Mo family Do you dare to say that this is not my brother's child? I advise you not to struggle My brother doesn't want you to keep this child either. feed me to wake up Am I Secretary Qiao now? He is taking a nap in Xicheng tell me something Someone called me It's Secretary Qiao calling I saw the phone ringing for a long time I'm afraid that something will happen to you So I picked it up for you first. What does he want from me? He He He is doing clinical surgery in the hospital Answer the phone police police I will go with you It's time for this relationship to end completely Asking for a painting You and Ms. Ni must have something to do when you come to the hospital, right? You talk slowly I'll leave first The condition of Xicheng Qiaohua is not very good Otherwise, come and see him off. what are you doing Aren't you afraid that Miss Ning will be angry? do not move Tell me why you kept my child Do you want our children to die early and have children? Why don't you discuss this with me? I calculated Mao Qianqian, your father hates me Your mother doesn't like me either Plus you have a similar family background You are lucky and you know all these situations It's not that I don't want to embarrass my child you Take a few days off before going to work So obedient I took your mother's money The contract was also torn up What do you mean I want to resign Qiao Hua, don't regret it if you leave. I won't regret it Ha ha Fuck Deng Zihao Do I still have to call you Mr. Deng? No, no, Mr. Meng, you really know how to joke. They all blame me for being too deep into the house before. Didn't realize his identity sit down You stay with him for a few more days Qiao Hua will prepare to resign in a few days. When the time comes, let him go to the company I arranged. I will prepare a general manager position for you But painting Qiao Hua will not accept the job I offer Then you have to find a way to make him accept it. If that doesn't work, take care of him in other ways. Mr. Mo I don't want to lie to him anymore I don't want the remaining 1 million anymore Deng Zihao Just take the money and do it well This doesn't mean you can't do it if you don't do it. When it's time for you to go, I'll let you go. Understand Yo Miss I've only been here for a few days and I'm leaving now. Not as good as you I didn't stay as long as you did But we left on the same day It's also quite fateful. What nonsense are you talking about? How can you leave when you stay so well? See clearly You are fired this is fake My performance is so good How could he leave? Bad character I proposed Why do you Why should I rely on my tenure in this company? I did a reasonable evaluation of my employees, okay? You are responsible for your own actions what are you doing You should be glad that this glass of water is not hot Are you crazy This slap of yours is also returned to you. Yin Zeyi is your fiance What's the problem between you two? You two can resolve it between yourselves. I have left the apocalypse Next time you dare to trouble me again I can't promise you to survive. ah You are all dead, right? Big brother won't help you now Feed mom I resigned Let me take you back to your hometown Hello I'm not Ms. Qiao Where is my mother? Ms. Qiao, she went to the treatment room I'm the nurse here Just help her get through it. There is something I need to inform you Ms. Qiao, her condition has relapsed again So you can't leave the nursing home during this period. How could it be repeated? You don't have to worry Recurrent mental illness Have strong uncertainty So we suggest that he continue to stay here Conservative treatment for one year Then I'll go see him tomorrow No need for you to come over It may affect his mood That would not be good good It seems that it is not easy for me. who are you what do you want to do to me If you want to live a good life, don't ask you. Wait until the day I need you You naturally know Hello, is this Mr. Wu? I am Qiao Hua This is my CV Hmm, sit down I won't sit down If you have any questions, just ask Do you understand what I mean? Do you really think I asked you to come here as an assistant? Do you know that you have been banned? If I didn't see how pretty you are, Can someone like you find a job? ah Thank you for telling me the truth It just so happens that I don't want to either I'm afraid of needle eyes Hey stop Why do you stink so much? Slap you so early stop Oh shit What a coincidence for you You are here too Damn it, why did you hit me? I won't give you another kick think carefully Haha, no, no, no I'm leaving in a hurry You don't have eyesight ha Have you never seen a handsome guy? Hum shameless I said why is my brother's car parked here? It turns out there is a vixen here Forget it, let's go Hey, no, no, no I'll help you teach the vixen a lesson Whatever you want to do, don't be impulsive Why are you so dazed when I talk to you? Came here for an interview alone what do you think I've been forced to the point where I can't think anymore. If it weren't for the fact that I couldn't even find a job I wouldn't come to a place like this during the day What do you mean Miss Qiao, this is the wine Miss Mo gave you. Miss Qiao My brother and my fiance both value you so much. I'll give you a glass of wine Show respect There should be no problem Brother Mo Qianqian Your sister is still here You are so partial to her Since Miss Mo gave me a glass of wine Then I will also give Miss Mo a glass of wine. Get me another drink sit down Here are two glasses of wine Let's have a drink each Let's choose a drink fair and square. What's wrong, Mo Qianqian? Don't dare to drink anymore It's poisoned inside of course not But I have no money now If there's nothing else, I'll leave first Miss Xiao Although you no longer work in the bedroom After all, it has been signed for so many years Wedding in Qing Dynasty next week I still need you to be able to participate. Okay, I will go when I have time. I don't know if you have time in the past two days. Can you come over and help me decorate the wedding venue? No Isn't it enough for so many people to help you arrange your wedding? But after all, they don't understand your preferences. There can't be any other way of setting up the scene, right? My dream is still there have you know Probably sooner or later Can you please come over tomorrow morning? Get the news here OK I'll rush there as soon as possible Thank you so much Xiaohua, you will also be our wedding project from now on meet tomorrow Look at the good things you do ah Qiuhua, this bitch Mo Qianqian You still don't know where you are wrong Master Zuo Master Zuo The Zi Yan incident was obviously Qiao Hua's fault. If he hadn't replaced Joe I won't lose such a big person I thought you were just stupid and vicious I didn't expect that you still don't know how to repent. Mo Xianqian Our Yin family doesn't need a daughter-in-law like you. Grandpa, don't say that to me Ziyi Ziyi, what are you doing? Don't scare me Don't call me that I officially declare Our engagement is broken off We will have no relationship from now on Wu Zeye I love you I really love you we have been together for so long How could you suddenly cancel your engagement? I disagree I disagree do not need you Our Yin family has issued a statement Everyone knows we have nothing to do with each other why do you do this to me Because Qiao Hua, right? Aren't you afraid of offending our Mo family? Nothing to do with him You've done so many wrong things and you still don't know how to repent. Even if I want mercy I wouldn't choose you like this As for the Mohist family I believe that after seeing this video They have no reason to refuse our marriage ending Take care of yourself Sister Ni, are you sure Qiao Hua will come today? I made an agreement with him Hexi came in Miss Qiao, thank you for your hard work. And asked you to help It's okay, I'm free anyway Nothing happens That's good Then go and move the flowerpot in the west corner speech Ah, stop, stop Sun Meng grows taller Is this illegal? We even lost our jobs Still afraid of breaking the law I'm not kind to you why do you do this to me Trying to take advantage of me all the time what do you want to do Of course I'll take nude photos with you It's illegal for you to do this It depends on you being the first to be ruined. Let's break the law first and get out of here I, stop messing around You dare to bite me You just came to shoot boy Ha ha I walked in You dare to hit me I'll fucking beat you and me to death ah You will be punished Even if you suffer retribution, you will suffer retribution first. Brother Gang, come quickly, let me go away Why Haha Huahuahuahua, wake up a little, Huahua hold onto Take them away from me Hahaha, this is the big brother What happened? Mr. Mu recruited those two people. It was Miss Qianqian who supported him they do this not only gave them a sum of money He also promised to give them a job when things were done. It's Guo Qianqian again I've been so used to being lawless. send him abroad He has not been allowed to come back in the past few years, right? Walk Assistant Xu, what are you doing? Miss Mo, Mr. Mo said You've been doing things more and more erratically lately Let us send you abroad to reflect and reflect It's not your decision if I don't go here. what to do You dare to let me go What to look at Not helping yet Be careful I got you away Dad, please help me Mo Qicheng said he would send me abroad Mr. Mo and Miss Meng escaped I don't know where the old man's people moved him to. waste I can't even look at anyone Mr. Mo Please come back to your old home Qikai, the old gentleman said, if you want to touch the young lady, He's going to touch Qiao Hua's mother Why are you crazy? You think everyone is around you Even if you are Mo Xiucheng, you don't care that much. I obviously know that you were kidnapped by Zhang Gang and Su Meng I instigated it They didn't punish me either What did you say I said Moxi City He doesn't care that much at all Mo Qianqian Do you think you told me Mo Xicheng's attitude? Will I be sad? You are Mo's daughter his sister Of course I won't compete with you But you are committing suicide Aren't you afraid that I will retaliate against you? Just because you have something that your mother has but not your mother's It hurts you so much Also bites At worst, we'll die Wow what are you doing Ah, can't you see? Come to Mo's house Don't you want to live? So Mo asked someone to kidnap me today Photographed for me I don't have to be punished, right? You know it all Thanks to Miss Mo Qiao Hua, please be more honest with me You don't have the capital to cause trouble, understand? Walk Mo Qianqian, if dad hadn't helped you You have already boarded a plane to go abroad. You still have the nerve to jump around here? Put him in a sanatorium Be careful, you don't have my orders Not allowed to be released What Moxi City? Don't you dare, your dad won't allow you to do this? Mo Qianqian This is already the biggest concession between me and you. Take it away Go check it out Where is Qiao Hua's mother hidden by the old man? It's Mr. Mo, Mr. Mo Do I need to tell Sister Qiaoqiao about this? Need not Let's wait until we rescue people. sit I ask you Who allowed you to send Qianqian to a nursing home? I promise you not to send her abroad I didn't say send her back to Mo's house He actually tried to argue with me It was you who fell out first Don't blame me for being ruthless and unscrupulous I have to warn you Never do anything you regret you for that woman How dare you talk to me like that I'm not here for I'm here to make you Don't spend your later years in jail mom Hello, may I ask where the patient is who lives in this room? Ms. Qiao She was picked up half a month ago It's impossible that we don't have any other relatives in our family. He won't go with anyone else I don't know that It was Ms. Qiao who went with them on her own We will let him go Do you have any surveillance here? Can you help me find out who took him away? Our surveillance here Clean up once a week Then can you help me think about it? This is very important to me His life may be in danger Don't worry Let me think about it first Oh, right There was a woman in the room at that time Said he was your former colleague oval face She looks pretty with long hair Okay Thank you thank you What are you talking about, my mother? Your mother and I can't get along with each other. Besides, you are not from the Mo Group. People, stop pretending The nurse at the hospital already told me It was a female colleague of mine who took my mother away. You have so many former colleagues How are you sure it's me? Know where my mother is You are the only female colleague in the nursing home Who else knows besides you? Who knows? Would Wang Xicheng reveal these things to others? What are you doing Mo Xicheng, I suspect that Zhao Li took my mother away. Mr. Mo is really not me Aunt Qiao and I have no grievances or grudges why should i do this It must be you That's the bullshit you took my mom away from. Want to let go Mo Xicheng: My mother has been missing for half a month I must ask where my mother is today you say you say you say you say you say where are you I What are you talking about? My mother is missing I'm looking for my mother Do you think I'm fooling around? Ask your mother to go to the police station. Or post a missing person notice yourself Mr. Wang You are so cruel Mr. Mo I escaped Don't worry, no matter what happens from now on I will never come to your territory again Hello Wait until Zihao's mother disappears Hello My mother is missing Don't worry, I'll have someone look for it right away. Haohao, it's not efficient for us to post missing person revelations like this. And according to what you said It's hard to find people if we look for them this way I've asked all my friends to look for it I except those It's me Do not worry Hua Hua I've asked everyone I know to help find it. Auntie is in urgent need of help. I thought it would be fine thank you and go we are all friends Don't say such kind words Let's continue posting Mr. Mo Our tracking photos showed him entering Mo's house Mo Zhai It seems that he has entered the old man's room. I see Ouch, why are you so annoying? Master, have you been there in the past half month? The old man basically keeps flowers and birds at home. Think about it again Oh, it seems I went to a very remote nursing home in the eastern suburbs. Said he was going to visit an old friend okay, I get it Don't tell the old man what I'm asking you today. OK Change it for you Who are you? what do you want to do open let me go Ah who are you Where are you going to lock me up? Let's go quickly Otherwise, they will find out soon. Mr. Meng, you let others make the decision. i was fired Mr. Meng knows about us. He knows it all Xu Zheng said so Walk Where are you going, old man? What are you doing? Who gave you the courage to stop me? Mr. Mo, this is Mr. Mo's arrangement. You can't leave the Mo family all day today Please don't embarrass me Hello, the user you dialed is currently unavailable. Asshole Your mother and I will open the door quickly mom Where have you been during this time? i'm not hurt Ah, what happened to you during this time? When a colleague of yours came to me Say something happened to you As soon as I heard this, I hurriedly followed them. Who knew they would lock me up? Every time I answer your call during this time They all asked me to tell you that you are safe Don't make you suspicious They also said that if I don't do it, They will be bad for you I dare not not listen Mom, I'm fine make you worry Don't just believe what others say anymore. I see I was just too anxious at the time I shouldn't listen to them Huahua is sorry Mom made you worry Mom, what did you say? Whatever I do for you is what I should do I'll go and have a good rest later. I'll take you to dinner tonight Thank you very much today Saying thank you is enough do not move I have something I want to give you something The last flower is you Aren't you afraid that I'll run away? Wherever I go, I am my people I won't chase Okay, you're getting married tomorrow No more knots You still know to come back Do you still have me in your eyes? Don't be angry. It will hurt your health. You can bring people back now in an upright manner, right? If you already have a young wife, do you still have to have a mistress? How could you allow you to talk to me like this? What's wrong with allowing you to do this? No one is allowed to say that Mr. Mo, how could you do this? No matter what you say, Mr. Mo is still your father. You can't disobey him like this Who gave you permission to interrupt? Someone coming Throw him out Mr. Mo you can't do this to me Mr. Mo, I don't want to leave Bay City. Please help me Zhao Li, when you were cooked Do you think my dad is not here? You are just his playmate a chess piece Take Mo Dong out You will be punished Qin Dynasty Are you ruthless enough or are you a good role model as a father? Just for that Xiaohua Do you want to turn against me, my father? Who asked you to touch his relatives? It was you who touched my daughter first If you're to blame, it's Mu Qingtian who was so pampered by you that he became lawless But you didn't give her the ability to be lawless yes Don't forget She is your sister Just half a sister, you say? We are having a wedding tomorrow in Xicheng I have to come out today Want to see me so much I really need to see you Some things must be explained clearly to you face to face What's the matter? Why did we cancel the wedding? bright moon You know best whether we have feelings or not. And the little tricks you do these days I already know it all Do you think we still need to continue? Emotions can be cultivated after marriage We are related because of our families Just together I don't care what I do It's all for the good of our two families The invitations have now been sent out Now you tell me you won't get married It wasn't just my face that was hit And your Mo family's face I do not care If you think there is a problem You can put the blame on me What's the use of pushing it on you? As long as this wedding can't happen You have to explain it to me why don't you get married Is it because of that clever trick? What does it have to do with others whether we get married or not? Don't think it's been so many years I don't know what your relationship is with Qiao Hua. uncle and aunt I won't agree with you two being together. Especially aunt What he least expected I just saw my uncle's little wife outperforming him. your wife's family background Must be comparable to Mo Qianqian's husband You go tell him Mo Qianqian seeks death The marriage of the Yin family is gone I, Mo Xicheng, will not marry any worse than Mo Qianqian. What should aunt do? He doesn't plan to get married in Xicheng Things have come to this point Both sides already know what they think. What should we do? This scoundrel wants to piss me off to death Good boy, don't worry I won't let him act recklessly Just feel at ease and prepare to be your bride I will definitely let this wedding go ahead as usual Mrs. Xing, what are you doing to me again? Don't pretend to be weak in front of me Encourage my son not to get married Every slap I give you will be light. He really doesn't want to get married anymore Don't act stupid in front of me I tell you I will never allow you to enter the door of my Mo family in this life. There is no way you want to marry Xicheng Mrs. Xing, I don't want to marry into a wealthy family. I've seen a lot of women like you The best you can do is not show your intentions on your face It's just a little higher grade than them. Mrs. Xing wants If there is nothing else I'll leave first Where are you going You call Xicheng immediately Tell him you won't be with him Don't make me do anything else Hello Mo Qicheng, I have already agreed to Deng Zihao's proposal. You will hold your wedding with Ni Yun as usual tomorrow From now on, our weddings and funerals will have nothing to do with each other. Qiao Hua, what are you talking about? Where are you now I'm very grateful to you for saving my mother. But we are not suitable in every aspect Let's not delay each other anymore Guo Xicheng, you have no influence But my youth is spent on you Let's stop contacting each other Contempt for throat soreness I'm too lazy to lie to you mine Who is it? Hello Mr. Qiao I'm Qiao Hua's friend How did you find your home? There are some things I want to explain to you Qiaohua He is my traceless and worthless secretary relationship between them I think I need to explain to you Mom, I'm back mom Where have you gone? my good daughter Mom knows that these years have dragged you down Mom has never asked you to be rich and wealthy. Although our family is just an ordinary small family But we have to have our own character Interfering with other people's feelings Mom, I hope you won't do it again Find someone who treats you well in the future live your own life After mother left Take care of yourself alone Sister Wang My mom seems to know about the two of us She showed signs of suicide Don't be anxious first Where are you now Tell me quickly I am Mr. Wang Something happened to my wife Her friend is going to commit suicide Hospital rescue now Now hurry up and go to the hospital with me. Why is this person so reluctant to jump off a building? Want to commit suicide at such an old age It must be because the children in the family are not filial Can you explain it to me? love ambulance I'm going to call 120 Don't worry The ambulance will be here soon I'll give it to you Yuanyuan, don't worry Stop, don't leave me alone as a mother Ahhh ah It will be fine if you ask for auntie Xicheng, you are finally here How is my dad? Fortunately it was discovered in time Auntie was rescued and brought back But the behavior caused great harm Mom, I'm coming If you're awake, open your eyes. I'm still alive why are you doing this If you don't want me to die Let's hold the wedding ceremony with Yunyun as normal tomorrow You forced me to commit suicide What does forcing you mean? It's you who are forcing me If you don't want me to be with your dad Embarrassed in front of his little wife Really? If you don't marry me and your grandson, What you hit is my face Tomorrow all the guests will see are my jokes Do you want me to be laughed at back then? Are you still being laughed at now? But you can't compare it with my marriage. As long as I love to live All my life I have to compete If you don't want me to win Then you are forcing me to die good I rob Okay This should sir sir me Doctor my mother The patient's head was hit plus excessive blood loss It's hard to move on If you still can't wake up after 12 hours Then we can only train her to become a vegetative state. dad It must be your mother, right? How are you sure it's his? Your ex Xiaogang said he wouldn't get married Your mother came to talk to me Then my mother committed suicide It has nothing to do with them that you started this thing. you want to calm down I will get to the bottom of this matter Can't hear my voice calling you bride Will you marry this handsome groom? and love him forever Be loyal to him? I do bridegroom Will you marry this beautiful bride? and love him forever Are you loyal to him? I'll wait Why does Li Yu You hurt my mother Mom committed suicide and became a vegetative state But you can enjoy a happy wedding What are you talking about? What am I talking about? So is the evidence in my hand still fake? I have evidence here Yesterday Miss Ni went to see my mother evidence If you want to see it I also have videos Look, do you know what you are talking about? Moxi Cheng and I have been together 5 years ago He didn't have a fiancee at that time First come, first served It's me in front too Miss Ning is behind Qiao Hua You can't bring harm to your family Why are you telling my mother I got to the top by relying on my lover from Moxi City Now I'm meddling in your feelings Causing her to commit suicide You rose to power by relying on your status as a lover moxi city please tell the truth Qiao Hua did become an assistant on her own back then. If you don't believe it You can see the interview information from that year so Is it true that you two were disconnected back then? Just being a lover Being a mistress Doesn't he have anything he can come at me for? Why should I tell my mother Causing him to commit suicide No I have a video here You can send it to everyone There is a video here I can show it to everyone Just make it up out of thin air. You want to ruin my marriage Enough Ni Yue In the past six months, Ni Yue You bribed the officials to spy on me You also hinted that Mo Xian came to be hostile to Qiao Hua. Threatening my mother Let my mother force me to commit suicide Isn't this pile of stuff enough? I didn't expect him to be such a vicious person. This Miss Ni She looks like a lady on the outside There are a lot of tricks behind the scenes. not like this Doctor, please leave it alone. Today's wedding banquet will be here first Let's all leave first. Please report back if received enough By now Do you have your responsibilities? what is my responsibility All this is for your sake You marry a girl from a similar family background How could it be wrong? Are you really doing it for me? Or for your own face Mom, your own marriage is not good Just look for it in me Then you shouldn't find someone with a similar family background. I should find someone I love Mr. Lu, are you kidding me? How much love and affection does this imperial concubine have? Why not be like us? We will definitely fall in love with each other in the future people like you Even if I marry you It's impossible for me to fall in love Are you right about Xihu Nanqiao? right I'm just coming At least he's not as hypocritical as you You really disappoint me I'm so disappointed Xizhou, are you okay? Mom, I already think I've done a good enough job From the time I took over the company to now Already tripled the company's performance Now more than half of the company is under my control What on earth do you want me to do? Do I have to follow your standards to get a wife and have children? Otherwise, you and Qiao Hua would never be together. Going to find his mother will also benefit me. I also called his mother Want to say it hard I was also part of the force that forced his mother to commit suicide. If you two dare to be together I dare to make you uneasy happy people You really do anything to achieve your goal people like you never deserve happiness I wish your dreams will never come true mom this time I must live for my own happiness Reporter, reporter, reporter, are you coming back? what did the doctor say Auntie's situation Not sure when I will wake up You'd better not come here again. Hua Hua Have you forgotten what your mother said yesterday? It's impossible for us two to be together Let's stop entangled I can only live well now to take care of you Do you really want to sever ties with me? Love that does not bless loved ones Tao is favored Just don't come in again Mr. Qiao You have a dinner with the president of the company at noon today There is a business club party tonight. What are you laughing at? Mr. Deng gave you a bouquet of flowers And Mr. Yin from Zerui Company is here to see you today. good Then you can help me find Deng Chao's new company in the south this afternoon. Send some flower baskets Why are you free to come here today? Why can't you come when everything is fine? Given by Deng Zihao Hey, he's really thick-skinned. Also sent flowers It's good that you remember him If Deng Chao knew you were talking about him behind his back I have to settle the score with you How am I saying bad things about him? I'm praising him for being brave these two years He can blatantly come to the company to find you. But I can only see you once during a meeting Anyway, I've seen it really I can occasionally meet the people I like It's already a very happy thing You can't expect to be happy every day, right? Mr. Yin You're too unfamiliar The friendship over the past few years has faded away. Ze Yi, I really want to thank you for the past two years. without you I found that it really couldn't be so fast Don't thank me After all, I also made money through you This is a successful investment. The person who helps you the most is not me Indeed, if there had been no Mo Xicheng in the past two years, I can't develop so smoothly So you still can't let him go? I haven't thought about it yet ok i got it Qiao Huan you are a good girl you must be happy Hey, stop just talking Can you treat me to a meal? Treat you to a big dinner tonight How important is it to have friends at a party? Walk I have been following you today It seems that I won't give up until I see you. Do you need me to help you send him away? Forget it, ignore him He won't keep it to himself for much longer. Miss Qiao, I have a few words to say to you. Xu Zheng, don't force my people to attack you. Even if I get beaten today I also have to finish what I need to say. Miss Qiao How do you feel about a person who was placed next to you by Mr. Mo? Even Deng Zihao can be grateful Why can't you be more tolerant of Mr. Mo? what does it mean speak clearly We don't have time to spend time with you If you don't understand, we'll leave. Miss Qiao Do you really believe that Deng Zihao is just a stubborn person? Have you heard of the rich second generation? Which well-known company is owned by the Deng family? Although Deng Zihao is your former classmate But his identity and background are all fake He is just a person who was placed by your side by Mr. Mo Just take care of your actor OK I have to go find Mo Xichao myself and find out. Qiaohua you are back again I have a question for you What does Deng Zihao have to do with you? Honestly don't lie to me The most suitable person to be by your side Why haven't you told me before I don't think it's necessary to say anything It's enough that he can protect you if he can protect you What else are you doing here? I don't want anyone to abduct you I've made the problem between the two of us very clear. Qiao Hua Well, you may not have watched the news recently. The Mo Group is all under my control My dad and Mo Qianqian have all immigrated to the United States. As for my mother All his friends have a son and a half daughter So I don't have any worries yet Can't you take a step back for me? sure Find my mother to like You're driving me into a corner Ah ah ah help Why do I like you? Our Ni family has been targeted and defeated Now it has become a A small company where anyone can step in I can no longer be the superior Ni family. Miss What the hell But your parents are healthy Although the company's income from the community is stable Why are you still so cynical? What do you know How does my life now compare with before? You are becoming more and more successful Let's start looking at the formula from a high level. I don't How dare you speak harshly? Believe it or not, I asked you to live but not to die. It's illegal for you to do this You speak quite righteously. I'll see if you can still be tough in a while. Why let me go this stick I want to see if I can give you a good time Police I'm fine police Oh my god oh my god oh my god Oh my god you How long will you continue to be obsessed with not realizing it? It's obvious that I'm the one who should get married But you made me look embarrassed on my wedding day Why do you say that I am stubborn? Which sentence we said on our wedding day was false? People should always pay for the things they did wrong At least you're in peace now Do you want to taste the feeling of losing everything? Not good No one wants to drink it Don't fight Do not fight Don't stop fighting God, please let me go. There is a knife here I promise you You keep your word Isn't anyone here yet? Hurry up! let me go You and I have told you before You should pay for the things you did wrong take away XuchangXuchangXuchangXuchang I save Xuchang Why didn't I realize you were so stupid before? Why didn't I realize you were so cruel before? If you say you can't see me, you won't see me Do you think my life has been easy these past two years? I am also very tired and suffering every day Then let's stop tormenting each other Let's get married right away I wash my hands Can you give me a little more time? good I'm willing to wait for you I am willing to wait for the day when my aunt wakes up Mom, today is Mother's Day This is the carnation we need Would you please wake up soon? I really want to spend the holidays with you mom Mom, are you really awake? You can't sleep Just wait for me to call you a doctor. Doctor Mom said your body is slowly recovering You can have some liquid food My body is out of breath It's just what's wrong with you Mom misunderstood you before It's all mom's fault You have suffered these past two years mom Go over there Start again now But because of your mother's last words I've been single for the past two years Hello aunt My name is Luo Xicheng It's from Qiao It's my boyfriend love words give me a chance let's make amends take care of your children If I don't go, I'll let you know Be a canary? You sign that contract I don't know if something happened. Still going to work? Change your mood Why is there so much negativity? Damn thing can you tell me He totally missed the mark hurry up I'm already very polite to you now, otherwise What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? Who else do I remember? i want to kill him Can you say something thoughtful? Those are all your wild guesses. The old man of the Mo family should not be able to deal with you. What future do you have? I just miss you Everything is fine here So that you can take care of him You owe me this glass of water He should be here soon On such a hot day what are you doing I just can't bear to see a villain like you gaining power. do not you know You send me your mother's photo and information. Have you been to any place? young master you are my mother You should think about what will happen to you Otherwise, it would be impossible for him to agree Make him have to marry Yun Yun She left a letter and left How is my mother doing? They say that I came to power by relying on the Qin people from Moxi City. Yes unless I die Don't you have a party? I just picked him out from among your classmates. Life is comfortable What's the difference between me now and before I lost it? He didn't have time to come Why don't I see it on the promotion report? Grew up in the east part of the country Such an interesting thing again it's normal Working under a handsome person like you I will never let you go I will be embarrassed Everyone is gone