Welcome to the 2020 Mathologer Christmas video. off this crazy year with a really crazy video. love playing dominoes. And we'll finish the arctic circle theorem. Pretty sure you've But whatever it is arctic circle theorem doesn't it? As a warm-up let's start with an It goes like this: remove two opposite corners of this mutilated chess board with dominoes that Well let's go for it and give it a try. okay put that one, that one, that one, get a bit then that one and that one and now we're stuck. be able to complete a tiling of our mutilated We can repeat this as many times as we want from no luck. No luck again. And again. Very annoying attempts have something in common? Again look See it now? What all these failed are always left with two black squares. Well let's have a close look at the eight It's actually very easy to tile this Okay now here's the thing. When we place a domino two squares must be of different colours. They are domino covers one black and one green square, two three dominoes cover three black and three green cover the same number of black and green this? Well the whole chess board can be tiled. and green squares. 32 black and 32 green to be But now when we mutilate the chessboard we are But this means... well what does that mean? green squares is no longer equal. There are and that proves the mutilated chessboard cannot how incredibly powerful don't you think? And think the mutilated board cannot be tiled? Just try all This also explains why in our failed attempts we But of course this nice parity The argument also proves that any mutilated board cannot be tiled. Really easy to see right? There We can be sure just like that no mucking around easy? Okay let's make it trickier. What if we take one green square? For example, let's choose these has the same number of black and green tiles. what do you think? Maybe pause the video yes, can be tiled. In fact no matter what mutilated board can always be tiled. And there's look at this. This is a round trip that visits Now the two squares we are carving out cut Can you guess what I'll say next? Well we can tile the mutilated chessboard by Easy right? And the special thing is this always choose to remove. Why? Well, first cover the even number of squares away. There, zero squares and so on. This means that when you carve out even number of squares between the holes along And of course this works both ways. Easy. I just for you. Don't trust me? No, really, this one's squares two black and two green? Will you always Leave your answers in the comments. Okay Well, there's a lot more. Turns out that Important as the simplest possible model for of a grid as atoms. Now these atoms randomly form and these dominoes tile the grid. What Can we detect any interesting structures in these nature? What does what we find tell us about three plus amazing and important domino tiling discovered and that hardly anybody apart Youtube youtube premieres all One of the most amazing bits of mathematics I of rectangular board. A version of this formula Piet Kasteleyn. What a stare! Kasteleyn clearly Okay are you ready for Kasteleyn's crazy formula? Whoa what does it even mean and what's all the of tilings be a whole number a plain old integer? First to see how the formula works let's use it eight times eight chess board. So we set all the bit of calculation eight divided by two that's the fours because four is an integer. They are your board is an odd number say nine. Then you'd would tell you to round up to five. In short Okay and that's a nine of course. Now the are Greek letters they're capital pi's and So in the expression on the right we have to and k in all possible ways and then we have Okay start at the bottom if j is equal to right. If j is equal to 1 and k is There, four times four that's 16 trig Oh yucky all of these numbers except for the when we multiply these numbers together all 12 million and change a perfect integer, the What an unbelievably crazy formula. And all this any dimensions. Also worth a mention: if both n has an odd number of squares and can therefore case the formula up there will spit out 0 as the That's your second challenge. Amazing, amazing, amazing but it gets even more makes this formula tick is a super nifty way to mutilated chessboard not just rectangular ones. with a checkerboard of any size and draw a loopy that the region on and inside the loop contains Notice that obtaining regions this way This particular region has 11 green squares and domino tilings there are. To do this first number Similarly number the green squares. Now squares are neighbours and we do this in a square then this is recorded as one. So in there put a one. And here are the other ones. okay. Each stacked pair is assigned the letter What does the I stand for? Intersection I hear for our good old friend the complex number I whose and just run with it for the moment. Anyway here Also quite a few, right. What about the other of squares that are not neighbours and are Well 0 of course! Now add some brackets If you've seen matrices before you can probably one magical way to distill all the entries of a determinant of the matrix. And if you calculate minus 88 i. Yep there's minus 88 I ways to tile But it's almost right. Just zap the minus sign the number of ways to tile that region. Now And with what I've just told you you can any weird shaped board you fancy. So just assemble your fancy CAS calculator or Wolfram Alpha to have a minus sign or an I but just zap them if Of course for really small examples like many of you will be able to calculate the to remember and the only thing that's ever used is me here's a third challenge, a very nice one for of tilings of the small two-by-something boards. and so on. Can you spot a simple pattern in the moment is waiting for you, so don't miss it. For the super keen among you at the end of determinant trick works and say a little bit from all this. Tristan one of my super cluey maths glasses. What's special about these glasses is the What's that special number? Leave your answer board has holes so it is not of the type that Having said that while this determinant it does contain it in a very strange way also give calculating this determinant a try. await the keen among you. Again don't miss Okay for our next showstopper let's look at the something you'd expect to come up if the tiling random. Is there anything to say about it? Well example there are lots of these long fault There the tiling even has one fault line that Interesting isn't it? I guess in nature it's What else can we see amidst the randomness. Well from those that are standing up. Here we get these For this tiling you can walk all the way from left nature it could also be significant. Also in a each of blue and orange which is exactly what colours to distinguish the tiles further. So let's there. Okay for standing dominoes there of the domino covers a black square or the I'll colour these two types of I'll colour the two types of lying down dominoes On closer inspection we notice that regions of the tiling. I guess in nature these regions that are particularly stable to layers of the brickwork. Whatever. Now these significant for the tiling of square boards surprising manner when you ponder random tilings Amazing right? But what did we just witness? of the so-called Aztec diamond boards of Here's the smallest Aztec tiling, known as A(1) is the second Aztec diamond board A(2), the third cutting the corners of square boards with even again chop off the corners et voila that's four, the order four Aztec diamond. Now it diamonds like the ones I showed you in the video brickwork tiling in the corners and the roughly regularly tiled regions in the corners are called chaotic region in the middle is called the arctic that if you push all this to infinity this is infinity. A perfect circle inscribed in a perfect And of course right in the middle of the Clause which is why I thought this would make One final amazing feature of Aztec diamonds: as tile rectangular chess boards is a monster. But diamonds is super simple and super super pretty stuff but of course this is Mathologer not Christmas we won't be content until we dug into The Aztec board over there has on the order of 10 of this board? Well there's the Homer Simpson tilings then put them together in a very big hat. one. It's almost certain that your tiling will arctic circle in the middle. Almost certain a few tilings in the hat that don't feature brickwork tiling is one tiling that's also there. that one. It's just that for large Aztec circle is vanishingly small and so by picking one Of course there are a couple of problems with for starters it's a bit tricky to print out all not to mention finding a hat right? No computer in existence can count to substantial that many times. So how did Well the key to finding these random tilings and beautiful formula for the number of tilings and everything is an absolutely magical way from the starter baby diamond. Let me show you. So we start with the smallest Aztec There are two ways to tile this let's start with this one, doesn't with arrows like this. The important thing in opposite directions. Okay let's extend this Move the tiles one step in the direction of We fill these two by twos with pairs of Same for the other two by two. Either the pair of choices over there. Okay extend to A(3) there. Now move all the dominoes Pretty magical :) now three two by twos appear. two choices for filling them with pairs of arrowed right expand to A(4). Now at this stage we cannot pointing towards each other, there. Now slide. More magic and more and repeat. There next diamond. Find the Move. Fill in the resulting two by twos randomly. Magic. And so on as far as you wish. Now this is are indicated will always work. In particular sliding phase and at the end of the sliding phase two by twos, and so on. But even more is true. from the basic diamond like this and by always creating random tilings of the various That movie of the random tilings of those was generated this way. Now again it's not once you know that this is what you're aiming I won't go into details here but I will in the description. Okay I can't resist the fact that the arrows are always pointing A bit mysterious but let's leave it at let's just assume that this magical square dance derive the wonderfully simple formula for the get some intuition for the arctic circle to show is that these are the numbers of tilings two to the power of one plus two. Two to the Of course the fact that the first diamond A(1) Then the idea for the proof is to argue from we'll start with the fact that A(1) has two from tilings of A(1) by the dance we'll check that then since all tilings of A(3) come we'll check that A(3) really has two to the power Now for the details. Clearly for the smallest and our magic shuffle produces these tilings like two by twos and then fill this two by two with so there are two different tilings and of Works. Next, extend to A(2). Okay when we okay there two times three times and four extra squares turn into two orange There. And as usual every one of the orange two both the left and the right diagram turn into two Easy so far right. And so there are a total of two equals two to the power of one plus two different Very very nice don't you think. And i'm Anyway, let's just go for it and figure out the So let's extend. There, we're getting an extra the moving phase these three times four squares like here. Okay as usual there are two ways total of two times two times two is equal to two this diagram. If all this worked out the same for total of 2 to the power of 1 plus 2 times 2 to the 3 tilings, exactly what we want. And we really There. In the remaining two cases we have pairs to throw away these colliding tiles in order to instead of three orange two by twos. But doesn't Well we don't. Can you see why? Have a Can you see it? Of course you can. What made them different was the We can make them different again by filling in one All right and at this point it's three orange two ways we get all two to the power of one plus Fantastic and arguing in the same One of those proofs that made my day when I it? Of course it's also possible to calculate the the determinant trick? But i'm not sure whether full formula just using the determinant Maybe another challenge for the real math among you can you please implement the magic extending filling the two by twos randomly and the moment that brings all this magic to life On we track towards the arctic circle. First we Using our crazy dance it's not difficult to be present in the corners for the vast majority on one of the tips. At any stage of in which these two end squares can be Suppose that "this is the way" :) i've been So that the right tip is covered by one at the next stage and then the next stage and so to the next larger diamond and move, then occupied by the same domino. Okay now what like this. Then after expanding and moving we Filling this two by two randomly with an chance of a domino ending up in the tip, like If the pair ends up being oriented the other with a domino in the tip at the end of the next Another orange thing, and so on. This shows that we'll have a single domino covering the tip. ourselves that as the diamonds grow there will be Notice in particular that any buildup There. Right? This whole collection of dominoes squares opening up on the right. And of course Oh and you probably already figured this i'm using correspond to the four different Anyway given that our dance generates random where those frozen regions in the Of course we're still a long way away from seeing be roughly circular and why it should become nitty gritty technical stuff and I won't go into there are links in the description for those rabbit hole. The wonderfully simple formula was first conjectured by the physicists grenzing, the mathematicians Noam Elkies, Greg Kuperberg, number of proofs of this wonderful formula. dance which they called iterated shuffling and The arctic circle theorem was published in 1995 Truly magical mathematics just right To finish off let me tell you about on another type of board and I'll give you Our new game is played on boards that and the dominoes we're using are made to cover look like this. Boards like this can also be means that as before mutilated boards that can be and black triangles, right? There's also the of tilings for these new boards. This formula is pairing is recorded by a one no complex nonsense a small hexagon-shaped board can be calculated The counterparts of the Aztec diamonds in are shaped like hexagons. The one over there there. Just like for the Aztec diamonds of regular and irregular shaped hexagon There fantastic no nasty trg stuff inside. The in store for us. Take a look. Looks almost 3d There are essentially three different orientations and this orientation. Let's colour the different now it's really 3d. And this 3d is more than just in terms of special stacks of cubes and this conclusions. Now let me show you a randomly chosen another arctic circle is starting to materialize will look like this. Of course I could go on for delicacies but I think it's already been plenty more beautiful puzzle to ponder all right? Ready? the same number of tiles of each colour, right? that there are exactly equal numbers of orange, any regular hexagon board like this. And that's this is literally a case of thinking inside the after acknowledgments for those of you who want for those of you who need to get to a Christmas Thank you all for watching these videos and for thank you, thank you, thank you to marty eddie and to jim Propp for his expert advice on Christmas and I'll see you back in the new year You're still here for the mini master class. another Mathologer seal of approval. I hope or hot chocolate and are ready for a dash As promised I'd like to show you why this I'll start out easy but you really need to know two and three times three matrices to be able to Anyway did you already complete your homework and board? Well okay then let's check your homework. tilings here and there. We already had this couple manageable 2 times 2 which as many of you will Now of course I times I is equal to minus one and But just by looking at this expression mathematical trickery that makes this work stand for pairs of side by side squares, equals one in the determinant formula counts On the other hand the i's in the determinant and the I times I in the formula records the formula per tiling and of course I times I in the formula for the determinant. Great. Also a bit different then the end result of the decorated with a minus sign. This illustrates that bit on the way you label the board. As I already or i. The positive integer, in this case 2, Of course the two times two matrix is special not have any zeros. So let's go the next step Remember one stands for side by side neighbours, neighbours. Now to get a sense for what is going 3 times 3 determinants. So the matrix has nine they are in. There that's the entry in the this formula built? Well there are six terms half in every term three entries of the matrix There first second and third row and one from There one from each column one from each row, there are permutations at work here, namely the That's all six of them and a term gets a plus Those on top are the even ones. A term gets a ones at the bottom. Also remember when odd permutations turn into even permutations odd permutation one three two and you Swap two and one in the even permutation two three Nifty stuff huh. All determinant formulas for particular the n times n formula has n factorial a plus half a minus, odd even and so on. I know the nuts and bolts of determinants are what reassuringly tangible again. Let's have a look at There are two zeros. Remember each that are not neighbours. These zeros wipe Right zero times whatever else is Three terms have survived the attack of the zeros board. There one one, two two and three three one two, two one and three three. Very after the zeros did their wiping. And since we it's also clear that we get all tilings this way individual terms are either 1 or I and I squared 1, minus 1, I or minus i, right? So those are tilings and 3 terms, for the formula to work All three terms equaling one will add to three, and so on. All conveying the same Let's focus on the term that's highlighted at the and one vertical tile gives an I there. And that the associated permutation 2 1 3 is minus 1 times 1 times I so equal to minus i. So Here comes the nifty part. Take this two by horizontal ones the two vertical i's whose product the green permutation two one three the twist of two and the green one. This means we're going and so the sign of the permutation switches. one. So the net effect on the value of the term is means that the value of the term does not change. Okay double check. Yep that's the term and its value is plus I times I times I which the remaining term? Well taking the second the third tiling. Again the net change is minus and that means that all three terms are equal that this going from tiling to tiling to tiling mutilated boards under consideration. What on a checkerboard without self-intersections and same number of green and black squares like be changed into any other tiling with a sequence from tiling to tiling in this way we are proving its non-zero terms are either all one, all minus the determinant formula works for these sorts So to summarize after the non-neighbour zeros have one non-zero term tiling left over. And the fact tiling via these two times two twists implies which then proves that the determinant Now the determinant formula also works for some many others that feature holes. For example as I glasses at least not straightaway. Having said described may seem pretty complete but is which also contains more sophisticated versions of tilings of any mutilated boards including those in this little master class and you definitely If you got lost at some point, maybe go over really worth it. Finally a few words about using the determinant trick. For those of you the determinants of many square matrices and Kasteleyn's formula really is a product of of our matrices but of some close related if you're interested in the details I'll link to Enough for today? I sure think so! After this I really need a long long long holiday. As usual, of this video you liked best. What worked for