- Okay, so if you're a long you probably already know my backstory, but for those that aren't as familiar, let me give you a quick recap. Back in 2010, I graduated bought a brand new car If it's any consolation, So even when I'm reckless, I'm I didn't know much about but as I got more interested I started to learn more about my own money. I eventually built a profitable business, opened my first retirement account and became 100% debt-free. The latter, I consider it one of my greatest accomplishments. And so today, 10 years I wanna talk about how I manage my money, specifically, the accounts that I use, why I use those accounts that I've learned about personal finance over the past decade. Okay, let's start by to see how I manage my money and then we'll break I have a personal checking a Roth IRA, and an Individual 401k. All of my money goes through The one thing you'll notice that's missing from this equation is a savings account. At this point, I haven't because the interest rates are so low that opening an account 200 bucks over the course of the year isn't really worth it for me. I'm not always simply trying to get the greatest return possible. I'm trying to manage my time in a way that makes sense for me and that gives me the best and my finances. So I choose to put more into focusing on working on my videos and growing my business versus running around from bank to bank, trying to find the best So I pay myself through my business, like anyone would get That money goes directly into my Chase, personal checking account. So this personal checking that I share with my wife. We use it to pay for rent, utilities and a few other items that The main reason that we rent an apartment versus buy a home is because It's really, really It costs upwards of $1 million to find a decent home in And so right now, even though we are starting to look into by looking into what what you should be thinking about because once the two and then the market, once they align in a way that makes sense to make that investment, then that's when we'll But when it comes to any major purchase, I think it's really important and not get too starry-eyed and too eager to go into a deal that you might eventually regret. For everything else, I use my Chase Sapphire I use it for small things like coffee, groceries and books, and big I chose the Chase Sapphire because it's really good for which are two things Before moving on, I think it's important to talk about the inherent risks and rewards of having credit. Now when it comes to personal finance, experts are often split on this. There are those that say and you should get the rewards from it and those that say credit is and you should avoid it at all costs. Now I fall somewhere in the middle. I understand the apprehension, the reason that somebody would say, &quot;Do not get a credit card,&quot; because there are so many people, especially in America who suffer from really bad consumer credit. According to bank rate, the average credit card debt Since there's such widespread in the United States and since I personally have a when it comes to money, when I first got a credit card. I will never ever, ever pay when I don't have the Now this is a rule that Most people, when they they use it to buy things that they don't have the money for and this is the absolute because eventually you'll have higher interest rates, you're gonna be paying so much extra money for things when you don't need them. The most simple rule when is save more money than you spend and you can't do that that you don't have. The very first retirement after I paid off my debt The decision to go with in the same way that I make every decision when it comes to personal finances. I do as much research as I listen to the experts that I trust that are already in the industry, and I make the best decision as it relates to my own lifestyle and the risks that I'm And so I learned that Vanguard is a trusted investment company lower fees in the industry average and I decided to go with them. One of the biggest selling versus a traditional on all the money I invest but then when I take it out at retirement, it's absolutely tax-free. Now if any of this is putting it did when I first looked into it, all you need to do is versus Roth IRA, do a little But honestly for me, the Roth Some of the safest are in low-cost mutual funds. If you go with funds that your returns will likely over a 30 plus year period. You may be wondering how has changed with the given over the past month or two and the truth is that nothing has changed. And that's not because I have just like everybody my profits have gone down quite a bit. But for me, it's all about knowing that there is going and big gains in the future. Just sticking it out for and pulling out your money too soon is you trying to time the market and not even the greatest are able to do that consistently. So keep your money in there, and eventually you will that you need to retire with dignity. There is around a $6,000 for your Roth IRA in the United States. Early on when I got started And then as my income started to grow, I wanted to invest beyond that and that's when I opened For this, I opened up a account with my business. My investment diversification is similar to my Roth IRA account, highly invested in stock. How I balance my investments as I near retirement age, most of my stocks into more secure bonds. If you're new to this stuff, it can be both intimidating but just know that if if you invest when you're young, you can see a massive amount over the course of 30 to 40 years. Let's say you're able for the next 35 years. At a 10% return, you'll If you didn't invest your money at all, and simply save $4,000 a year, you would only have $140,000. Invest now and your future So in order to be able to contribute to something like a 401k, you need to be able to make income and one of the ways that I sponsors like Squarespace. My sponsor for this video is Squarespace. I've partnered with them all year because I've gotten a from their platform Whether you're building a personal brand, starting a podcast, or they make it effortless and professionally designed website. And they have so many from blogging to analytics I have benefited so much over the past few years to build a website, I highly recommend that Go to squarespace.com for a free trial and when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of the website or domain. So truthfully, anytime that I make a video about personal finance, I Uneasy when I start working on the video, when I'm shooting it, when I'm editing it, the whole process makes me feel just a little bit uncomfortable because I don't consider myself I consider myself an expert and that's why I feel comfortable talking about my own strategy. But I know with that comes inherent risks, it comes people talking that I'm doing wrong and to the 10th degree and I could from every account that I have. And I understand it and that's okay. But I also think that is why people don't in personal finance to begin with, because there are so many There are so many people the right thing to do, the And really when it comes down to it, there are so many different options that could be right for you. And so being honest with taking a look at your personal finances and figuring out how to get that you currently find yourself in, it's going to give you much more of a return When I got out of debt, that final student loan, I that was removed from my I now had the ability to start a YouTube channel, to maybe slow down my income streams because I wanted to pursue my passions. And this is something that you can do, you have to do with confidence and having a solid financial ground to make those decisions And so no matter what, don't let the fear of doing the wrong thing And so do your best, do your research, but no matter what, just make Investing in your personal finance is an investment in yourself. Thank you guys so much I hope you got something out of it and I can't wait to see you next week.