Hello everyone, and welcome back to Movie psychological analysis of Inside Out--both the watched this animation, you probably noticed some message behind the story. By the end of the first Now, this video is based on some key interviews, You might know him from classics like Up Pete has done numerous interviews where he clearly even the head of creativity at Pixar, so Let's dive right in, and fair warning, The story starts by introducing us to the we actually have six core emotions, with movie. The creators of Inside Out cut it out humans have way more than six emotions, but all how the screen you're watching this video on primary ones. For example, a mix of fear, anger, In total, humans have about 120 with these core emotions at their root. like the emotion of anxiety, which looks At the start of Inside Out, the first the other emotions one by one, but here's and that's a big part of the film's as the one keeping Riley safe from but there's a subtle hint here that no emotion is Fear is designed to look like a nerve--just like dentist. Anger is responsible for justice, Disgust? She's there to protect Riley from getting based on broccoli because Pete Docter's daughter she believes her sole purpose is to make Riley But here's the key: the film is about learning that even emotions like sadness Now, let's talk about the character of teardrop. Joy's big mistake is saying, "I don't the whole journey of the movie comes in--to This makes Inside Out unique as one of the first of the story is Joy's misguided belief that film reflects a certain psychological Sadness reflects depression, Joy is after someone with a "firestarter" In Riley's brain, Joy is in charge and directs our personality is inherited. Though Riley's a big chunk of her character comes from her this because in her mom's brain, Sadness is in Here's another fascinating point: part of our concept, called genetic memory, is seen in animals When a cuckoo hatches in another bird's nest, without being taught how. This is nature's way of However, with humans, even if a it will only manifest in the right environment. So they might never surface if we grow up Riley's core memories--those pivotal moments that If a memory carries a deep emotional meaning, it As Riley moves to San Francisco, her core used to define her--her friends, her hockey team, prevent Sadness from changing any of she ultimately isolates Riley from her how bottling up emotions can cut As the story unfolds, we see the significance key moment, Sadness touches one of Riley's trying to prevent this, but in doing In reality, our emotional system is portrays. In our brain, information is processed, analyzed, and prioritized before it even our prefrontal cortex helps us decide how to way. This part of the brain is crucial to making When Joy and Sadness get lost in Riley's maze-like library), they encounter Bing Bong, tragic realization that Riley is growing up Joy tries to cheer him up with humor, but it's allowing Bing Bong to cry and release his important lessons--sadness isn't something to By the end of the film, Joy finally understands time. She even sheds a tear herself, realizing This is echoed in Riley's own emotional she reconnects with her family and begins The ultimate message of Inside mean being constantly joyful. It's about using them to grow and learn Inside Out is truly one of the most creative and I'm excited to hear what you think of it. we're going to break down and analyze the This sequel has become the 10th and the only animated movie to cross the $1 the focus is on exploring adolescence and the Spoiler Warning for Inside Out First, let's talk about how this so we can better understand its message. In core memories, and in the end, Riley learned suppressed. We saw how overcoming help of sadness, and when that feeling In this new part, we see that Riley has she shows empathy when her friend messes showing us how her character has grown. made Riley more empathetic, and in sadness. So now, Riley is someone We see that clearly in the scene where to different high schools. She doesn't instead allows herself to cry once she's shows that Riley has learned the However, the moment she steps out of the car, it becomes clear that she's about to learn high school. This movie is all about Riley In this sequel, Riley has and she's now suppressing bad memories. just like in the first part, is Joy. In and in this one, she's built a machine to erase part of Riley's identity. But by doing so, she Now, what exactly is identity? Identity is we see our own personality, and this perception identity is a significant part of who we are. visualized through musical strings that constantly The problem with Riley's identity is that it's &quot;I'm the best,&quot; &quot;I'm really good at hockey,&quot; and so on. But now, she's in a new high and she has to make new ones. Worst of all, she and not as skilled as others. Her childhood That's why many families took their according to reports. Adolescence is a time adult world and often feel left behind During puberty, significant changes also real world. For example, in the movie, we see with her friends (or social life) becoming In adolescence, some emotions play a stronger in the last analysis that, according to some though there's debate about that. Pixar chose with all other emotions being combinations instance, anxiety is a mix of fear and serves Each of the core emotions in Inside Out for instance, is based on a shining is modeled after a nerve--like the one in your introduced in adolescence is embarrassment, in the movie, Embarrassment works closely with Embarrassment's job is to prevent us from our reputation. This character's design is red when we're embarrassed. Another emotion which drives us to catch up with society and only character with four fingers Envy is one of the most complex human and even humiliation. There's also a French to make us restless, pushing us to try new Now, let's get into the deeper details. Riley's self-perception is based on childhood beliefs. like it did in the first movie when Joy suppressed emotions that built Riley's flawed identity and We see the visual effect of anxiety on Riley's anxiety. From the locker room to her hockey showing how anxiety has taken over her leaving no room for anything else, a behavior In this movie, obsessive thoughts--or constantly worrying about things she can't This rumination drains her brain's energy without At the same time, in Riley's imagination, take over her creativity. This scene is "1984" Macintosh commercial. Apple, founded used the same Orwellian imagery to symbolize So, what happens when Riley experiences a movie portrayed depression, with this time we see a creative representation of taking over the control panel, but she passes is moving too fast for Joy to catch--it's like This rapid movement represents how a panic attack Although Riley's brain is processing hundreds of The turning point comes when Riley's suppressed the memories she had tried to forget--like the time in hockey--are accepted as part of who she is. Joy memories, and Riley's new identity is formed, The final message is that Riley learns to but she's also jealous, loves hockey, Riley becomes her authentic self and is able own skin. She even finds the courage and the colors and sounds around her become clear In the end, the message of Inside Out 2 is and our flaws. The goal isn't to be version of ourselves by recognizing The final scene with Riley checking her email, storytelling technique that leaves the outcome the ending isn't about the result but Well, that's it for today's video! Rumor has it and we can almost guarantee that love will you enjoyed this video, don't forget to like