- How's it going, guys? Julian Bradley here Today I'm gonna teach of reading music. So, is reading music important? Yes it is, I think every to read music, at least the basics, which I'm gonna show you in this video. For one, I know quite who are great musicians, but they've never learned to read music and I could just see that for them, they lack confidence, and it always comes up in conversation when we're talking about music. So, reading music doesn't In fact, I'd say you could do most of the grasping of it in 10 minutes, which is the goal of this video. Obviously after that, you for a few weeks, maybe two weeks. But really, it's fairly simple, and I'm gonna break down which I think everyone needs (upbeat techno music) So first rule, reading tells you pitch and it tells you rhythm. Now pitch basically means and rhythm means when to play those notes. So, pitch is the important part. As far as I'm concerned, pitch and the good news is pitch Rhythm, however, is It takes a lot longer to learn different note lengths, all these dotted things, And it's not as important. For one, you could just and learn the rhythm just by You can also sort of see the rough idea of how the rhythm should sound just by looking at the music, how the notes are spaced So in my opinion, if in learning the basics of reading music, then don't worry about rhythm. Rhythm is what takes a that's what intimidates most people from learning to read music, and, in my opinion, is not that important. (light techno music) So, there are different types of clef, there are two main types of clef, which are treble clef and bass clef. You could think of treble clef as the right hand on the and bass clef as the left hand on the piano, it's the lower part. Now the way music works with any stave is the lines and the spaces So to move up a note, you to a line to a space. The space means the space So with the treble clef, the bottom line is an E, (piano chord chimes) and then the bottom space is an F, (piano chord chimes) then the second line is a G, (piano chord chimes), the second space is an A, and then it just goes up from there. So, B, C, D, E, and F. Now the easy way to identify notes quickly is to use an acronym to So, the common one I was always taught is, &quot;Every Good Boy Deserves Food,&quot; and, really catchy, I know, but it stuck and that's And if you have your own please post it in the comments below. So, Every for E, Good for G, Boy for B, Deserves for D, and Food for F. And then some people like to and they'll use the word FACE, which is what the spaces spell out. But if you'd like, you to remember the spaces. So for example, you have E, G, B, well, B plus one is gonna be C, or D plus one is going to be E. Now the other thing to mention is that these aren't just any old E, not just any old G, any old B. These are actually specific notes within a specific octave. So with the treble clef, the bottom E is specifically the E above middle C on the piano. (light techno music) Now, it's also possible for these notes to go above and below the stave. So there's just five lines, but obviously these notes and when this happens, we use And these are pretty logical, they're basically just lines so that you can measure and below the bottom E. And it gets a bit tricky sometimes to read these ledger lines 'cause you're not often looking at them. But sometimes you have to every single note, and (uplifting techno music) So next up, we have the bass clef. Now, with the bass clef, unfortunately, we don't although it could very nearly be the same as E, G, B, D, F, it's a bit of a shame. We actually have to learn a new acronym to remember this one. I guess it's not an to remember the lines. So with the bass clef, the lines go G, B, D, F, and A. Some people use Good some people use Grizzly and in fact, I actually prefer the ones that don't have Good Boys Deserve, because you can get confused and the bass clef, since So I woulde use Grizzly because there's less likely that you'll get confused Now it's also important to these five notes are, G, B, D, F, A. So the way to remember the register is that middle C is one ledger line above the top line of the bass clef. So this is actually a good both the treble clef and the bass clef. They're actually sort of because on the treble clef, middle C is one ledger and then with the bass clef, middle C is one ledger So if you take nothing you can just remember where middle C is, then from that, you can and figure out any notes. So it might take you some time, but that's certainly something you can do as a last resort method. (light techno music) Now in music, any of these which means raised up half step, and any of these notes can be flattened, which means they're lowered a half step. Now, the way that we write so you'll see this little sign, it's basically the pound sign on a phone, and it will appear just before the note which is to be sharpened. So see if you can tell me which Well, it's the lowest which means it is, that's right, an F, and there's a sharp sign in front of it, which means it's an F sharp. Now, to flatten a note, we have this sign, and it goes just in front of the note which is to be flattened. So let's see if you can So, it's treble clef, we'll use the rhyme, Every and there's a flat sign in front of it, which means it's a B flat. Now once and sharp or a it doesn't just affect that one note. It also affects any repeats of that note for the rest of that bar. So if there was another F, or another two or three F's well they well all be made F sharps. Or if there's another B after that B flat, well that will also be And then once you get to the next bar, you'll get a bar line, then it resets and then any B's or F's will be B naturals after that. Now there's also a natural and this symbol basically or the flat from earlier in the bar. So say you had the F sharp, but then on the repeat of the F sharp, you actually had this that would mean it's and then if there were in the rest of the bar, it So this natural also gets used, and it's basically a of the sharp or the flat.` (light techno music) And one final point to is that the very beginning of the piece, you might have what's Key signature is basically a So you might have say F sharp and C sharp at the very beginning of the piece before the music even starts. And it basically means throughout the piece. So every time you see and every time you see a C, (light keyboard music) Now at the beginning of the video, I said I wasn't gonna cover rhythm, however there is one thing and that's about time signatures. So, if you look at the just as I said, there's a key signature, you'll also see a couple of and this is what's called Now these two numbers tell you the piece of music's in. So there're various time signatures, could be in 4/4, most common, it could be 3/4, could be all these different time signatures. Now the important number So, it tells you how many So if you see 4/4, that in the bar: one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, If it's 3/4, that means there one, two, three, one, two, which has more of a If it is 6/8, then it has a one, two, three, four, five, six, one, two, three, four, five, six, one, two, three, four, And then bottom note is less important. It tells you what type of beat that is. But it's not too important, whether it's a four or it's an eight, usually it's one of those two. So that can also be useful to understand what those two numbers at the well, it's the time signature. (soft keyboard music) So finally, I'm just gonna go over a few remaining notation markings, which you'll also encounter in music. First up, we have dynamics, Well it means how loud So generally, you have P and you have F. So you'll see these F's and these P's scattered about the music. F stands for fortissimo, and P stands for piano, Now, sometimes composers which means basically Same with the P's, goes it's pretty rare to see You'll also get MF and MP, and that just means mezzo mezzo basically means medium. So you'll have medium So if we just take a look at this diagram, you'll basically see from the far left, you have the quietest going where you have the loudest. And another dynamic is the sort of hairpin notation. So when the hairpin expands to the right, this is called a crescendo, And then when a hairpin that's a diminuendo, and (soft techno music) Now if you're a piano player, you'll also encounter pedal markings. Basically, you'll see a As long as that line is sustained, it means hold down the pedal. And then when there's a break in it, it means clear the pedal, (soft piano jazz) Now finally, you'll want to practice this, it'll probably take a couple of weeks to engrain everything Now there are two ways to The first is to find some sheet music and practice sight-reading. Now, I'll put a link below this video to some of my free sheet music as my 5 Note Extravaganza piece, which is a medley I posted recently, comes with a backing track. (soft piano jazz music)