Pin xiang (Beijing) culture media Co.. LtdShanghai warrior Film Co.. LtdShanghai warrior Film Co.. LtdHua in ing Chang chuan Culture Communication Co. ., Ltd Zhejiang Guang run Film Co., Ltd Shanghai warrior Film Co., Ltd Shanghai warrior Film Co., Ltd 1941 Northeast I am a piece of ice I am a pile of snow I am the gun, the gun is my world Everything no longer exists in my eyes. There is only prey in my eyes. Remember at any time, I only have one chance to shoot. Shoot the mountain. I am afraid of winning the 6 fortune. Ten years ago, ten years ago, 1931, ten years ago, I was the Northeast Army. On the night of September 18, the Japanese Kwantung Army bombarded the Beida Camp in Shenyang and began to occupy Northeast China by force. As the Nationalist Government placed its hope in the League of Nations for mediation, Marshal Zhang Xueliang pursued Chiang Kai-shek's non-resistance policy, resulting in the fall of Changchun, Jilin and other places on November 4. Acting Chairman of Heilongjiang Province Ma Zhanshan led his troops to resist tenaciously and fired the first shot of the armed resistance. My unit fought alone without any reinforcements. With the heart of &quot;death to serve the country and the shame of our nation&quot;, we fought with the Japanese aggressors for several days and nights, almost running out of ammunition and food. In the desperate situation, Huazhi reaches the point of killing the enemy's firepower, which is the first squad leader. How many of you still have five people ? Concentrate your firepower and kill the tank. The first squad did not blow up. You bastard, Zhao Jie , Aso Yokomoto -kun , be careful to avoid the one with the gun in his left hand . Pay attention. Do n't leave him alive. You go and bandage him. Let's go to the front to see 4 Fu. There is gunfire. There is an ambush. Pull out the fire. Escape the house. Go home quickly. Maomao quickly evacuates. Order to disperse. Outflank the enemy and evacuate quickly. Protect the radio station. The breakout is surrounded. Don't let them. If you run away, why don't you get up quickly? The colonel is a left-handed man with a gun. Follow me. There are traps . Be careful. Carry out a carpet search within a radius of ten miles . You must find them for me . Are you chasing them ? Thank you, Dad. 1 Look, look, look, you see. It's great . Oh, I've been shot. Mom and dad, look. Comrade Luo Mei finally got you back. Hey, where are the others? They all sacrificed their lives to cover me and the radio station. Damn , what instructions did the Japanese devils headquarters give? The Kwantung Army headquarters issued it. The one-week encirclement and suppression plan for the entire Northeast Anti-Resistance Alliance is to wipe us out. The headquarters asked me to bring the radio station to keep in touch and accept new orders at any time. The enemy is strong and we are weak. This has always been the situation we face. We have been fighting with the little devils for ten years. Our captain was wiped out in one week. I have something to report. The reason why I came back alive is because a hunter saved me. Hunter 1 n O KX Mr. Kyo, I wish you a happy birthday. Cheers . The cake is here. It's so beautiful. It's been two years since I've been in China. Hey, this is the first time I have eaten a birthday cake. Thanks to Colonel, we can eat such a delicious cake. Colonel, someone has sent you a gift . 9 Colonel, step up your guard. It 's Qin Xie 2. It 's okay . M. Continue, everyone. Some people are going to be unfavorable to Colonel. Step up your guard. B A Where is your father ? No need for King Maomao. Fu Fang T is so happy today. 1 Yi Ge Wen 1 3 An assassin caught him on the tower . His Excellency, Colonel, are you okay? It's okay. The command has issued a seven-day plan to control the anti-alliance forces in each jurisdiction. You all should cheer up for the plan of suppression . Don't be ashamed of the Emperor. You should not be ashamed of Commander Mizujiro. Your trust is Colonel K. Kuniguchi Honguchi # C. The person who attacked you last night was the hunter who rescued the Anti-Japanese Alliance. We killed his wife. Er and the people in the whole village hope to use him to draw out the anti-alliance people. Now everything is as we expected. He is not just a hunter. I fought with him ten years ago. His gun is still my Sichuan Brigade. It is this hunter Huazhi who saved him. Hey, if he goes to the county seat to assassinate Yokomoto Seiji alone , it will definitely be a disaster . Why don't we help him ? As long as we can kill Yokomoto Seiji, this kid will definitely finish our suppression plan. Don't say it's useless. Just kill him. Yokomoto Seiji will have another Yokomoto Seisan to step in. The fundamental problem cannot be solved. Colonel , welcome to the captain. He was killed because he saved Huazhi's wife, children and people. Do we not care about Huazhi's life or death? You don't care about him. I don't care. Luo Mei , don't be impulsive and save. You must save the Montenegrin tiger. You and Luo Mei take a few people down the mountain. Remember to pay attention to safety. GS , go further and you will see dad soon. Madam, you are here. Dad , I miss you so much. You haven't been home for several days. I have n't seen you for a long time. You worked hard. Come home for dinner tonight. You must go back and eat . Colonel. The vehicle to transport the ashes of the fallen soldiers is ready. There are also Sergeant Aso and Captain Domoto. Coming soon - 0174 It 's just the right time to come . Your father was a comrade who fought alongside me, Mr. Aso. I heard that you won second place in the Japanese-German military competition. It would be a shame if you weren't first. It's a bit like your father's style. Little Colonel, these are the Chinese soldiers who killed your father ten years ago . Ten years later, they made me suffer great humiliation. His sniper rifle was originally mine. These imperial soldiers were all sacrificed by his guns. I will avenge the imperial soldiers. The cleanup plan needs your help. This time we must catch all the Anti-League gangsters. -0174 V. Find the enemy quickly . Fu Dazuo . The Anti-League people didn't show up. Don't worry, the bait has been set. Sooner or later the fish will take the bait. Fu, where is your dad? You like a gun. Give you one. Seriously, look at them. They are all asleep. Do you want mom to sleep? I don't want Maomao . Then tell me. Where is your dad ? I don't know. Let him go. I'll listen. I don't know where your dad is. I can't hear where your dad is. I really don't know. Mom , don't touch Huazhi. Brother, please get up. Your injury is okay. Luo Mei has already taken care of it for you. No bones are broken. Let me introduce this. This is our Captain Gao. This is our Political Commissar Li Qiutong. Where is my gun ? I put it away for you and returned it to you . I will return it to you when you are healed . Bring the gun here and there . I haven't finished the game yet. Let's take a look . Is Comrade Huazhi, Comrade Huazhi, and the Colonel so cautious about them ? You don't know that these anti-Japanese rebels are hiding in the deep mountains and old forests. You can't find them using this method. When we arrived at their commander, our people had already tracked and found the anti-alliance secret camp 1 Fu Fu 38 Attack Bi Gu Wo # When we were young, we had to give up and act accordingly. Let 's have a close fight tomorrow Huazhi , I want to have a good fight with you this time I really didn't expect that ten years ago you were in the Northeast Army and fought such a fierce battle with the Japanese. I admire you at that time. Why did the little devil invade Shenyang and burn, kill and rob my wife and children ? They died under the gun of the Japanese. I hated my country and my family, so I joined the Volunteer Army. Then came the bloody war of the Anti-Japanese Alliance. Ten years ago, the young marshal ordered to move to Northeast China. If we don't resist, we will fall. Our whole battalion will be dead in the end . I am the only one left. I am so angry that I quit and go back to my hometown to hunt. Brother , our Anti-Japanese League has a saying that the war of resistance is not in order. I sincerely hope that I will have the opportunity to join my brothers in the future. Fighting the Japanese side by side, it cried. Who cried ? It really cried. Animals are all spiritual. 2 The political commissar's horse was injured in a battle a while ago. 2 Over the years, this horse has been accompanying the political commissar countless times and led the political commissar from the Japanese. Wang Li escaped from death in the encirclement, come on, loach , or you. It also saved my life. It is already dead . To the political commissar, this horse is her relative. Ten years ago, I was teaching in Peking. The three northeastern provinces fell to me. I went back to my hometown in Northeast China with my husband Fu to join the Anti-Japanese Volunteer Army. Unexpectedly, my whole family was implicated and all were killed by the Japanese. When I got home, only this horse was left. Does she have any children? There is a child living outside the mountains. My fellow villager must be seven years old now, right? Captain, this cleanup has only been three days, and already more than a dozen camps of our resistance alliance have been swept away. Our superiors have instructed us to try not to expose our targets , let alone confront the Japanese. Captain, Political Commissar Li , I'm leaving first 282 Brother Huazhi , I still say what I said. We in the Anti-League will never force anyone to join us in fighting the Japanese. The Black Mountain Tiger is in 8. What's going on? Give me your bullets . I'll just take them over. No, brother, Captain Gao agrees to leave. I don't agree. Luo Mei , you will only die when fighting the Japanese alone. You must avenge your own revenge. Look at who among the Anti-Japanese League has no hatred against the Japanese. Comrade Huazhi , your own hatred is nothing compared to the country's hatred. We understand your feelings , but you have a country , a family, and you can't support yourself alone. S A group of talents can go a long way. The Japanese have come up. How many people are there in at least one squadron? It seems that we have been exposed 8. Political Commissar, you bring the sick and wounded from Luomei Radio and the other two teams. Follow you and immediately retreat to the reserve camp, Huzi. You and the remaining comrades will join me in blocking the attack . Captain Gao , I will go with you. You can follow the political commissar to protect the radio station. The radio station is very important to us. This is our only contact with our superiors. Please lead the channels of tigers and leopards. You guys bring your respective teams. Let's disperse and block, fight and move, and lead the Japanese to the black bear ditch. Be careful to save bullets. Huazhi took the retreat and found the enemy in front. Xiaole found that there was no big dragon . Grenade cover, let's take a detour , go quickly , evacuate Xiao Kai Jiaxiang, political commissar P, don't come here, political commissar 1 , protect political commissar Daozhou Fu, is your home safe? The devils shouldn't be here. I don't know, the captain, they have withdrawn. There is no male outside. I'll take you to find them tomorrow . You're injured . I'll bandage it for you :! 1 Cai Ran Cha Niang, please don't go Niang Chenghang Xifang Niang Niang, please don't leave my shop Jingjia Niang Fu Niang 5 Fu, drink it while it's hot , Anxiu's hidden rice last night, when you had a fever, you kept calling Niang A her Killed by the Japanese A Our whole family was killed by the Japanese After eating, put it on. This is the dress Anxiu wore when she got married. Come on in. S 5 Brother Huazhi A Come and read 3 Captain Gao. This is what we call this place. When the last camp anti-union fighter joins the team, everyone must write a suicide note and hide it here . If a comrade died, we will hold a ceremony here to read out his suicide note to say goodbye to his comrades. C. Son, when you see this letter, mother My mother is no longer alive. It is the biggest regret in my life that I cannot accompany you when you grow up. But without a country , there would be no family. Everything my mother has done is for thousands of children to grow up safely . Son, you must remember that we are Chinese and we must have The bloody nature of the Chinese people A. Li Qiutong . People who do not want to be slaves have built our new Great Wall with our flesh and blood. When the Chinese nation is in the most dangerous time, everyone is forced to let out the last roar. We are united and brave the enemy's artillery fire to advance . The enemy's artillery fire, Captain Gong Gao , now I want to formally apply to you to join the Anti-Union team. Welcome, Comrade, why couldn't you wipe out all those anti-Union people in the mountains ? Madam Huohuo Is this considered a soldier? Idiot, listen up. Thoroughly search every corner of the mountain and get those guys out . Do you understand? The most important thing to be a good gunner is your mentality. When you pick up a gun, you must be human. Combining the guns , each shot will be the last one to hit you. The longer you hold on now, the longer you will live on the battlefield . Little steamed buns, come on, how about you okay? I'm okay. I just saw a big steamed bun. Can I? Hold on to my feet . His frostbite is very serious. He needs to be treated quickly. There is no medicine for him . What's wrong with him? The little steamed bun is frostbitten. Carry him over there. There is a haystack over there to cover him. I dug some grass roots for everyone. Let's get some food first, we can't just eat this . We need to get some food. Yes, captain, Shuangshui Village was raided by the Japanese again. The food was taken away. If we take it back, wouldn't we have exposed the current situation again? We have no choice. It 's all food and there are still living Wen Mantou. What's wrong? Mantou , Mantou, don't die. Mantou, ah, Mantou, wake up. Don't die . We have food. Don't die. Mantou, here comes the food . Mantou, these enemies should be hiding somewhere. In this area or in this area , the food we grabbed from Shuangshui Village was robbed by the Anti-Japanese Alliance near Erlong Mountain. From Erlong Mountain , it seems that they must be moving around there. They have already run out of ammunition and food , so they dare to expose themselves at this time to grab food. If you are exposed well, you must catch them all this time. Don't be reckless. Since they dare to be exposed, they must have thought of a response plan . Commander , if I take a squadron to Erlong Mountain now, I will dig three feet into the ground. We also need to find them , Colonel , I will act together . You all set off immediately. This time, we must eliminate all the enemies . Yes, P. We have been searching for a day and a night. There is no sign of the Anti-Japanese Alliance. Everyone must search carefully. When encountering a situation, observe first and do not alert the snake. Got it? Are the Japs coming to hold them back ? The gunfire sounds very far away . Go and see if it's the captain. The Japs are coming to the mountain. Luo Mei is still on the mountain. The damn Wangli headquarters has given us a mission. We must blow up Kanto before dawn tomorrow. The army's temporary arsenal is the original grain depot of the landlord Wang Laohu's family. How can we blow up these guns with just these few people ? If we don't blow up this batch of arms , they will be sent to the battlefield in the pass tomorrow morning , which will be a huge blow to the anti-Japanese troops in the pass. The arsenal must be blown up to cause huge losses. But with our current strength, a frontal attack will definitely not work. We have to find another way . Hey, I just remembered that I used to work in the granary of Wang Laohu's family. Between their granary and the city wall. There is a secret passage leading to the warehouse. We can sneak in from here. Are you sure? I'm sure it's not the case . Our firepower is still not enough. The enemy is right. We can blow it up with enemy ammunition . But it will be difficult to get in and out. Comrade Huazhi said You're right , this is a battle with no retreat. If we want to take over the arsenal , we must go deep into the tiger's den and sacrifice. Comrades who are willing to follow me to blow up the arsenal raise their hands and that's it. Grandma's job is over. I'm just going to hide here and there. When will I be a Why don't I go to Comrade Huazhi? I have no way out for a long time. Seeing that their tracks have actually moved towards the county seat, they are looking for a dead end . This is the entrance to the secret passage. Search the city for enemies. Hurry. Where did the gunshots come from? It seems to be in the direction of the arsenal. I know their purpose. Reinforce the arsenal . The enemy attacked the arsenal. Reinforce the arsenal immediately. How are you ? It's okay. Let's go. Leopard, look at this. There's nothing wrong here. There's no luck here. I haven't found it. Take it from above . Drop it, lie down, don't move, I have no bullets, let's go, Zhufu, Luo Meihuzi, let's go together, little Ffu .