[Upbeat Music] Hey Psych2goers! Welcome back to another video! Have you heard of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator? Well, it's a widely popular self-reported different personality types. Like many, you may have taken the test multiple who you may be compatible with. So in this video, we'll focus specifically For many, ENFPs and INFJs can seem to make are so different. While INFJs are typically reserved and highly life of the party and characterized by their Yet despite their differences, you may be each other. So here are 10 facts about ENFP and INFJ relationship Number One: They are both feelers. What kind of partner do you look for in a Since both INFJ and ENFP are Intuitive types, who seem thoughtful, sensitive, and idealistic. It's through these qualities that help them connection in their relationship. Number Two: Similar goals in a relationship. What do you hope to gain from a relationship? INFJs and ENFPs are compatible in that they Both of these personality types seek relationships the best versions of themselves. In this aspect, they are perfect for each Number Three: Conflicts are rare. Can you empathize with how others feel? Because of their intuitive nature, INFJs and compassion and empathy. Both of these personality types are inclined judging each other. Because of this habit, ENFP and INFJ couples Number Four: Abstract Communication. Have you noticed how you and your partner The INFJ and ENFP personality types tend to compared to most others. They tend to have conversations that revolve and theories and ignore the more mundane yet But because they often have similar ideas what the other is thinking, which can create Number Five: Conversational dynamics Are you the one who vents or listens most Since INFJ holds the introverted trait, they most conversations. This is not because they don't have anything in this role. So when it comes to relationships, ENFPs should and listening at the same level. Perhaps by leading on more slower-paced and can feel heard. Number Six: They share similar values Interestingly enough, since both INFJs and they will share a lot of similar values. But with every relationship, there will be each other a hundred percent. In this case, they may want to try to look After all, sometimes being of similar minds in thought. Number Seven: They have lifestyle differences. While both of these personality types are lifestyles. While ENFPs tend to be more laid back, INFJs things. Because of this contrast, INFJs tend to misinterpret But these two personality types can complement other, such as for INFJs not to take everything with their life. Number Eight: They are intellectually curious. Do you enjoy going to museums to learn about The INFJ and ENFP personality types both are They may find fulfillment in appreciating new ideas. Because of their curiosity, they are bound with each other. Number Nine: They are adventurers. Are you bored easily? Another aspect that INFJs and ENFPs share tend to be wary of the mundane. Instead of following a routine or going to time exploring new ideas. So a great couple's date night may involve traveling to a different country, attending interest class. Number Ten: Planning is an area of conflict. Do you find yourself constantly prioritizing do? As idealists, both INFJ and ENFP tend to spend abstract concepts. Unfortunately, this may mean that chores like get often pushed aside. In this case, the more responsible of the may end up creating a lot of friction in the An INFJ and ENFP may seem like an unlikely What two unlikely pairs would you like us Let us know in the comments below. If you find this video interesting, be sure those who might benefit from it, and don't get notified whenever Psych2Go posts a new The references and studies used in this video Thanks for watching and see you in our next Thanks for watching! Video by Psych2go.