- Today we're gonna talk about decaf because decaffeinated coffee seems to be this weirdly There's a big group of people out there that are really kind of against decaf, the whole Death Before Decaf crew. And if you're one of well then I've got good news and bad news. And the bad news is, I but the good news is, well, decaf you know, often is disappointing and you're kind of right because I would say most in most places are a I wanna get into the because the kind of decaf drinker to me is the top tier coffee drinker. They are the purest of all coffee drinkers because they're just They just like the taste of coffee and they're willing to drink decaf, disappointing decaf, often, to get there and that feels very sad. But the really good news is It can be as good and enjoyable as any other caffeinated Now, you might also be of the mindset of like, &quot;What's the point? The point of coffee is caffeine!&quot; and I would argue a point but that misses a bunch of fun and that's kind of the We think coffee can be in a whole bunch of ways. Not just how it tastes, but its history, the whole process of making it, coffee's great and worth exploring. Now I want to get into why And to do that, we're to the beginning of decaf and then talk through the processes used to decaffeinate coffee. Then I wanna kind of touch because I think it is of this whole conversation. And then, of course, we will cover how to make delicious What's important, what what tends to go wrong, Let's go back to 1905 in the and there was a coffee trader Now his claim is that the when he had a batch of raw coffee soaked in seawater at some point, and then afterwards when they roasted it, he thought it tasted pretty good and it was kind of decaffeinated. He patented a process where they would kind of soak and then get in there with that would bind into the caffeine as a kind of solvent and take it out. And at the end of it, you raw coffee beans that And being an entrepreneur, well, he then built a roasted coffee and that They had another brand called Sanka, which was 'sans caffeine'. And that brand I think It was certainly popular in the US, really pushed decaf into that market. And most of the early marketing for decaf was it was a healthier without the caffeine. Small problem with that, benzene, the compound they were using turned out to be a carcinogen. We don't do that anymore, but that basic process of treat the coffee bean in use a solvent to get at and then get rid of that to roast and drink. That's kind of the process But there's kind of three main that I think are worth sort Before I tell you about I wanna talk about something which is health and fitness. In this short ad for this video CoPilot is a fitness app with an online personal fitness coach. And for me over the last it's been absolutely game changing because in terms of goals, I'm I'm not trying to hit a certain deadlift, I just wanna make exercise enjoyable, sustainable part of my life. And I check my CoPilot Now, it all starts with once you're paired with a trainer, you can go through what your goals are, how you want to exercise, what your schedule looks And from that point on, everything And it's helped me in three big ways. Firstly, most obviously, accountability, having Celina there, checking in on me, making sure I'm doing is really helpful. Two, flexibility. A trainer in the real world turning up and matching their schedule. And my schedule changes all the time and I need the flexibility of having a kind of trainer in my pocket. And third, customization. It's not like just buying If things change, if my needs change, if my fitness goals my program can change. If I can't go to the and I only have a few the program can be built around that. If you want to try CoPilot, if you click the link in you can get a 14 day free trial. And if you sign up before February 1st, 20% off your first month. Thank you to CoPilot for The first is actually very It's gonna be organic solvent used to extract the caffeine The sort of successor to benzene was one called methylene It's the same thing. That compound has a bunch of names. It's a very effective way of doing it. The process is much the same. You might steam the beans or to kind of open them up so Green coffee beans are very dense and if you're trying to get you've gotta do something to to give you access Dichloromethane isn't the most glorious and wonderful chemical in the world. I don't recommend consuming it. I strongly recommend not consuming it. You shouldn't be exposed to But the EPA in the US, the Environmental Protection Agency have a little paper on dichloromethane and they say in a US city, they measured three different cities. Daily exposure to airborne dichloromethane was 30 to about 300 micrograms per day. Per day. If you take a well processed that's used the dichloromethane process that might have, in total, retained in it 200 micrograms of dichloromethane, the limit is 2000 micrograms per kilo, but most of them are, in are below that limit there. So if you drank that entire kilo and you extracted all you'd be kind of at a typical in terms of exposure. It's a bad compound but Dichloromethane became because the name freaks people out and there was a big push against it and there is a successor That also sounds very scary, so you don't tend to see What you tend to see is the Sugarcane is what's used It is a naturally occurring chemical. It occurs in fruits, it occurs in a bunch Yes, if you concentrate it down you can use it as nail varnish remover, but it's present in a bunch of stuff and it's really not that scary. It works much the same way where again, you're gonna steam the add the ethyl acetate, through a number of different extract the caffeine from it 'cause that stuff's actually and then steam the coffee to get rid of any solvent and having them ready That's actually a very common process. It's really kind of interesting how popular it's become recently. There's a few different plants One of them is in Colombia, a lot of Colombian coffee The second kind of grouping, I suppose, is kind of water extraction. The Swiss Water Process involves making a green coffee extract. You are gonna take a very and steep it aggressively in hot water to try and leach out everything you can. That's the caffeine and all of the stuff That raw coffee is no But the green coffee extract really is because you can decaffeinate the liquid using things like sort and then you've got a When you put a fresh batch well the flavors aren't gonna because they're already in but the caffeine isn't. And so the caffeine leeches into the green coffee extract. You do this multiple times and it will fully And again, each time from the green coffee extract, that you can sell to pharmaceuticals or to you know, beverage manufacturers. It ends up in things like A lot of people like because it is ultimately and people aren't freaked out by water. I don't really have an opinion I'm kind of open to any They're all safe. And I'm not gonna come down on in this whole thing. I'm interested in all of them. This leaves us with our third process, which has I think the which is 'supercritical carbon dioxide'. Now carbon dioxide is kind of weird. It's one of those things that sublimates, what a lovely word. It goes from being a solid You'll see it if you when it melts, it doesn't To get carbon dioxide you need to apply a specific And if you get those right, And if you mix it with water, well then you can use that mixture to sort of decaffeinate coffee because the supercritical CO2 does seem to extract This process sounds very interesting. It doesn't tend to freak people out because even though CO2 may not be good in excess for the environment, It's in the air around us. There's nothing terrifying Again, this is not me saying ethyl acetate and methylene chloride are bad, I'm just saying how people react to them. Now I'd love to go to these plants and look in depth at how they work and if that's something you wanna see, let me know down in the comments below. Okay, so you've got your and then you roast it up. You buy a bag of roasted beans, you take them home, you brew a cup. Does that coffee have zero No. If you look at a lot of you'll see that it's often described as being 99.7% caffeine free. Looking at the EU they say that of the dry coffee matter, I presume that means the ground coffee, it can be up to 0.3% caffeine by weight in order to be classed as decaffeinated. Coffee, normal caffeinated coffee, is one to maybe 2% by weight, caffeine. So the reduction is going So yes, once it's below 0.3, it is more than 99.7% caffeine free. But that's not the reduction, it's not reduced by 99.7%. Now viewers of the channel it's a caffeine meter, it's a little device to do a bunch of caffeine testing. And interestingly, it's to measure decaf coffee as brewed coffee because it's below a concentration of 10 milligrams per hundred milliliters. So it's definitely gonna for like an eight ounce cup of coffee or a 225 ml cup of coffee. It will typically be lower than that. One thing we can measure because that's obviously So here we have 36 brewed from 18 grams of In this case it was an That's not particularly What I'm gonna do is give it a good stir and then pull a sample, and then add it to this little machine and it will give me a number about how much caffeine is in here. This has 13.91 milligrams per deciliter per hundred milliliters. And this is about a third of a deciliter but it's four and a little Very little caffeine which is good news. Now I do wanna draw your to this number here, the Now we've never really of the analyzer on the channel before, but chlorogenic acids are polyphenols, they're kind of plant defense chemicals and they're actually present compared to caffeinated coffee, in decaf. Now recently I did a They invited me back to the Zoe podcast. I don't think that's out yet, but when it is, I'll leave a link in the description down below. They were talking more about from coffee for gut health. It's one of the ways I particularly healthy for you, in that it's got loads of so it feeds your gut and that makes you, or helps you have a And that has a bunch of health That makes decaf to me It tastes great when it's done right, it's got loads of polyphenols but there's no caffeine, which if I suffer sensitivities to caffeine, if it delays the onset of my sleep, or it lowers the quality of my sleep, or it exacerbates things So there's reasons not to drink caffeine, but decaf lets you have a load of the potential, theoretical without kind of the downsides. So why is decaf bad so often? It turns out that first is extremely disruptive. The part where you kind changes the kind of structure of the raw coffee irreversibly. It makes it kind of more porous. It looks really weird as Here we've got some Swiss and here we've got some ethyl The green is a very different These are both washed coffees originally. It's kind of interesting to see, they don't look that You can see some The way that these roast to the way that normal Like the way that the in this very different kind means that it's a tricky And as a result, a lot of And this whole thing does funny things to the way that the coffee Decaf often looks a kind than it is inside on the There's a couple of reasons for that. One, I think the heat and two, because it's so porous, when it has been roasted the oils that usually until a pretty dark roast, will come to the surface after So you get these weirdly that aren't that darkly roasted. I'll try and show you this We have a roast color analyzer here and we'll look at two different coffees. One sort of specialty and we'll look at the color of the outside and then the inside once we've ground it. And then we'll do the same When it comes to using the lower the number, So with the decaf you can see, to me, the beans look much but the ground coffee looks And I think that's what we Essentially the outside is not as good an indicator of the coffee bean, of the ground coffee, of the overall roast level. But this is where it for you brewing decaf at home. Because this decaf is more porous. Yes, oils are able to get but the far bigger concern is able to get in to the Decaf coffee stales faster of kind of matching roast levels 'cause the darker you roast the faster it stales. So if you have a very dark roast of decaf that will be stale incredibly if it's not held in a kind you will really taste in quality and flavor. I'd love to tell you think the same way about that they're really paying but often they're not. You'll still see, you know, small coffee shops buying and not going through them that quickly. Decaf is as popular as cafes want it to be in a funny sort of way. Actually side note in researching this, we came across one from the New York Times, which claimed that up to 25% of coffee drunk in America at that time was decaf. That's astonishing numbers. I would say right now, I had a look at Prufrock's and four and a half percent It's one of those things if it's not clearly available. And then lots of cafe owners don't sell because no one's asking for it. It's a kind of chicken and A lot of cafes, frustratingly, time and energy into decaf. Again, their most passionate consumers are not well-catered to. Buying massive bulk bags of decaf is not in the consumer's end interest. You know, you need to It doesn't actually grind to normal caffeinated coffee. We took a bunch of different decafs and run them through the for a fixed grind setting and we didn't see much difference as long as the roast Different roasters do grind differently, but decaf doesn't grind to caffeinated coffee. You still sometimes see of pre-ground decaf that is You see them sort of shaking into the portafilter, spilling everywhere. That's not a cafe you or probably much coffee at all. You know, decaf can be great, but I don't think most coffee for how it should taste. So let's wrap up with the key stuff around great decaf at home. First and foremost is gonna be freshness. Use your freezer, decaf All coffee beans freeze really well. I would recommend a little portion of decaf And freezing them individually, you can kind of draw them down. If you don't go through decaf that much, it will keep really well in the freezer. If you go through loads of Things like, you know, help a little bit, but really to keep coffee that ages quickly. The second thing is the which is you need to buy that cares deeply about their decaf. I had an experience in 2007 where I was visiting a cafe in Portland. It was a Stumptown cafe where they still roasted in the cafe. And the roaster there, I was chatting and they said, &quot;do you want espresso?&quot; And I said, yes. Brought me an espresso. I drank it, it was delicious. And he is like, &quot;By the And that ruined me, like that was like &quot;Oh no, there's no excuse And that stuck in sort of my I don't think that's true in coffee roasting and that kind of stuff. I would say find the passionate to serve you decaf, sell you You wanna find a roaster who is proud and excited about their decaf because then, it genuinely, It's one where I would in online communities who recommend coffee from who's had a good experience, who hasn't had a good experience. Buying great decaf is tricky, but really that's kind of Well-roasted, well-sourced, is a wonderful and very but freshness is key. Dialing it in 'cause it to other coffees. Those are the key things. And beyond that, shockingly, there's no extra tips or tricks. It shouldn't be as hard as it seems to be. But drinking decaf is really lovely. It's become a little About three o'clock we brew 'cause we all like drinking coffee and we all like sleeping well. I don't want any caffeine but I really enjoy a little I just like drinking coffee, which is probably not a great surprise. But now I wanna hear from you Will you tell me, do you recommend decafs that you've really, really enjoyed? Don't use URL, don't put a link in there because that won't work. Just just talk about some decaf you've really enjoyed and why. I'd love to hear from you. Are there other things you want to know about the decaf process? Do you want me to go and visit Would that be interesting I'd love to hear your thoughts Also, thank you again to CoPilot Don't forget about the link and the QR code on screen. But for now I'll say thank and hope you have a great day.