(film reel spinning) - [Voiceover] Oh hey, look, desert. And more desert. The (mumbles), 10 meters up on the right. Here come left. - [Voiceover] Coming left. - [Voiceover] Fuck, there's another one! Come right, come right! (explosion) (country music) (engine roars) (yelling and laughing) - Almost lost one! (speech drowned out by music) - Look, look, look, look, look, look! - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,. (water splashing) Whoo! - Woo! Woo! (laughing) We're ready, we're running We're ready, we're running We're ready, we're running We're ready, get out Whoa We're ready, we're running We're ready I'm talking about Your light, the lightning bolt Inside of my bare hand We're ready, we're running I'm talking about day, Trust me when I say Get back with your dark day (peaceful music) (yelling) - I say they walk the plank. They walk the plank. - Walk the plank to the lake! To the lake! Ah! Ah! (people talking over each other) - Boom, boom! (yelling) Get him in the lake. - Don't worry, I won't do it. - [Voiceover] Get him in there! - Whoa! (water splashes) (yelling) (water splashes) Last day of summer I won't let you go Your like a lightning bolt Inside of my bare hand Ladder, my last hope Seek out the shoot's home Fire out, a warning flare (yelling) We're ready, we're running We're ready, we're running And we're ready, we're running And we're ready, we're running - I win! Boom! Come on, old man! You're sleeping in the cave tonight! Come on (grunting and yelling) We're ready, we're running And we're ready, we're running And we're ready, we're running And we're ready, get out (breathing heavily) - Almost there. Come on. (grunting) (laughing) (body falls) (breathing heavily) - Oh God. - Oh, you crampin' up them muscles? (breathing heavily) - Not a god damn fish! - Clearly. What stroke was that? - It's the black stroke, Huh? Get over here. - Alright, alright, alright. Too much suction, too much suction! (mumbles) Little Jack Johnson, huh? That better? - Yes. - Yeah. - Much better. (breathing heavily) (laughing) - [Voiceover] I just didn't - I mean we've been talking about it for like a couple of months now. Then we'll do the surgeries, and then I'll do his PT. - Sounds fantastic. - Yeah, I mean you know, we'll probably have to start out small, but eventually we want to and police and firefighters, you know? - Well it sounds like a solid plan to me, Mr. 1,500. - Ooh, that's Mr. 1,520, to you. Tim got the 1,500. - I have to measure 1,520 (mumbles). - [Voiceover] Hey. Remember that time you were jealous 'cause your SAT score was lower than mine? - [Voiceover] Fuck you. (laughing) - Hey, I ever show you - No. No, no thanks. - One, two, three! (explosion) (yelling) - Fire! - Now I can roast my marshmallow. (laughing) - Where you go? - Ben! - Tim! - Where you at? (foreboding music) (plane flying) - [Voiceover] I watched it fly right into the World Trade Center. And it was flying really low I could hear the engine. I've never seen anything like this. It just plants this side (door knocks) - Ben, what's up? - Something's wrong, - What's going on? - Turn on the TV. You'll see there's been like - Tim, can you come out - What's up, man? - Where's your dad today? - Um, I don't know. What's today? - Today's Tuesday. - He just flipped it so he So Tuesdays and Thursdays Why? - [Voiceover] Crashed into (gasps) Apparently there is very but we do have Kelly Bolicky on the phone who saw the events unfold. Kelly, can you hear me? - Hey which, which tower is that? - [Voiceover] Shock right - Ben man, which one is that? - [Voiceover] And I heard this explosion. Then people started-- - [Voiceover] No! - [Voiceover] You okay right now-- - [Voiceover] No! (engine starts) (tires squealing) (engine roars) (tires squealing) - Mom! Mom! Mom! Hey! Where are you? (crying) (mumbles) - No, no, no, don't, don't. (beeps) - [Voiceover] Hey, guys. This just isn't supposed There's just so much that I never got to-- when I tried going down the stairs, but there wasn't any stairs. Tim, there's so much that That I never got to show you. Know that I'm proud of you. So proud of you. Son, you'll make a great man, one day. Sweetheart, Annie, I'm so sorry. (crashing) (beeping) (solemn music) (ball bouncing) - I can graduate early, if I want. At least, that's what Ms. Henshaw said. 14-5. I'm up. If I do that, I can enlist by February. - What about basketball? And prom, and college? - None of that shit matters, man. - Let's do it, man. Fuck this place. - Wait, really? - Yeah. - What about your med school? - I'll be a medic. There's always gonna They'll be here when we get back. (laughing) We'll go in for a couple of years! Win the war! - Kick some fucking ass! - Not like we're gonna miss - We're gonna miss the apple festival. (laughing) - Dude, I don't even like apples. Hurt my teeth. (laughing) Hook shot! Come on! - Oh! (laughing) (tranquil music) (laughing) (yelling and laughing) - [Ben] Alrighty, you get it now. Get that now. Huh, you ticklish? Yeah, yeah? - Dinner! (laughing) - Shh, shh, shh. (laughing) You know what, you know what? (grunting) Here we go. (grunting) Dinnertime. - Here you go, sweetie. Got it? Is that enough to start? It's good. Why don't you help yourself to that? - What's for dinner? - It's called whisky fish. I ran out of white wine, so I used whisky. It's good. Try it. It'll be good. Take some rice. What are you thinkin' about, Ben? Benny? What you thinkin' about? - Nothin'. - A-1 today. - No, 7-16. - Well, better than usual. - Yeah. (boiling) - And how long do we have to do that for? - [Mom] Tim, we haven't I'm just asking for - I know, but can't she come here? - Why, what's the problem? - Well, for starters, the whole Mom, they're in her pantry. - It is a little disgusting. - They're in the refrigerator. - They are not. - Yes they are. They roll around inside (laughs) I swear to-- What's wrong? (solemn music) - It's okay, leave it. Leave it. - [Voiceover] Yeah. We both were. - [Voiceover] Infantry? - Yeah, I was hoping to be a medic. - Okay, couple things. We don't have medics. Navy gives us corpsman. Guys, you can do anything you want. You could be NBC specialists, helicopter pilots. - No, the infantry is what we want. - Okay. I'll work with you guys. There's something called a buddy program. You'll both go to boot together, that's all I can guarantee ya. From there, your best Excel. Try out for recon. You want to be the tip of the You will deploy, and - [Voiceover] Nope, absolutely not. No. - [Ben] Why? - Ugh, okay I got the whites in the-- - You have to sign this. - I'm not signing anything. - Josh is asleep, okay? Now what's going on? - Ask your son. - My son? - Yeah, your son. - Ben? - I'm 17, so I need parental - Okay. - Guys, I've been talking about - What brought this on? - We went to the recruiter's office today. - You went to the recruiters today? - Why do you keep asking just over and over again? It's not gonna change my answer. - Don't talk to us like that. - Yes, I went to the - Okay look, you're frustrated. I get that. You made it perfectly clear. Ben, you've gotta see - And what's the problem? You went to war. Look, I just wanna be His dad was killed. He was fucking murdered. - Watch your mouth. - What's the problem? 'Cause I'm willing to risk my life sp Josh doesn't have to grow up with this? Yeah, I'm a real dirtbag. - No, you're our little boy. And I'm not gonna bury you, too. You're 17 years old. 17. What if something happened to you? I'm not doing this right now. - What's the problem? - I'm scared! - You could get hurt. Or worse, you could die. Ben, you're gonna have to kill people. Do you think that's not gonna affect you? Who are you gonna become because of something that you did? I mean we love you, buddy. Right now, you-- But what if somebody else comes home? - I'll be fine. What? I need to do this. I have to be there for him. I gave him my word. - I know. I know. - I'm gonna do it. It's just a matter of (somber music) - What? This country is worth defending. - Oh. That's what he's doing, huh? Do you remember how messed up you were when you came back? Have you forgotten that? You know, you have to tell him, okay? At the very least, you have to tell him. - Alright. (peaceful music) - Dedicated it to you. I ran 2,000 yards. I'm sorry. (crying) I miss you. - (speech drowned out by Got this. Ah, rookie. (laughing) Listen, Ben. I don't like to talk about this, but when I was drafted, they put me in a to shoot anything that I did. (crying) To this day, I don't know You need to make your own decisions. Before you pull the trigger, look yourself in the mirror, and say why you're doin' it. And that you believe in it. (ball bouncing) - It's fucking weird, - Yeah, it's bullshit, - Nah. I understand. I mean, I'm not gonna be here Wrong of me to even try out like that. - Yeah, why didn't you wait 'til after after basketball season? - I don't know. I guess I just didn't think about it. But in the scheme of things, Couple high school - [Ben] You were gettin' - Easy decision, bro. Easy decision. - Your mom still bein' a Man, I'm right behind you. I mean one way or another, - I know, man. It's not your fault. We're gonna kick some fucking ass. Don't you worry about it. Shoot the fucking ball. - [Voiceover] So um, you, you - [Tim] I will. - [Voiceover] Take care - [Tim] I will, I will - Okay. - [Tim] Don't you worry about me. - Okay. - [Tim] Alright. - [Voiceover] Say goodbye, sweetie. - [Tim] I'll see ya, buddy. (laughing) You take care of her. Got it? - [Voiceover] We'll write to you. - [Tim] Perfect. (solemn music) - Come here. You come back. Okay? We got a tradition to - You know I will. - I'm gonna miss you. - Thanks, man. See ya, buddy. - I'm right behind you. - Hey Ben! It's five months, man! Five months 'til you graduate. (ambient music) - Fuck! (dishes clanking) - Benny, are you okay? - I'm fine. - Look, if you want to We understand that you're mad, and you have a right to be. You can be mad. - And what's there to be mad about? 'Cause you won't let me Won't let me serve my country? - Okay, we will. As much as it kills us to or worse, we're prepared when you graduate. - I'll do whatever you want. - You continue to apply to colleges, and you seriously think about the ROTC. - Done. - This hurts us, but we don't want to stand in your way. You know, we just wanna make sure that you really thought this through. (phone ringing) - Hello? - [Tim] Hey, Josh! - Tim! - [Tim] Hey, buddy! - [Josh] You want to - [Tim] Yes, that would be awesome. - Ben, Tim's on the phone. Ben, Tim's on the phone. - Hey, man! - Say Ben, what's up? - Same shit, man. How's boot camp? - Fuckin' sucks! But I crushed it, bro. Thank God it's family day. Feels like I haven't slept in 53 days. - Oh yeah, not that - Oh and dude? The fucking guys down One of 'em asked me who I told him it was the king (laughing) (chopping vegetables) - [Mom] Your picture looks - [Dad] Hey! - Hi! - Oh, hey guys. How are you? - Good. How are you? - I'm good. (sighs) - So, what's for dinner? - Benny! - Oh, what's this? Dear Benjamin, we're pleased to announce you've been accepted to Please see attach-- - Yes! - For important financial worksheets. - Oh! Congratulations. (laughing) - What does that mean? - Benny got into college. - Yay, Benny doesn't have to go away! - [Dad] Oh. - Shh. - Here, let me get that. (ball bouncing) - [Tim] Brick! Say, Ben! - [Ben] Hey. Nice hat. - Alright, fuck you. It's cold up here. - What's up, man? - What's goin' on? (laughing) Your dad said I'd catch you here, man. Yeah, I got a few days of leave, and then I fucking deploy. - Damn, that's quick. - Yeah. Some unit had a group a few months back, so they got no choice but to take me and a few others from SOI. But hey, sure beats sittin' in my barracks listen to the other guy in - Oh, fuck. - It's cool, he never lasts that long. - What? Some ROTC recruiter guy came by the school and a bunch of guys signed - Yeah, a bunch of pussies 'cause they're soft. Tryin' to get something out of it. So what's goin' on since I've been gone? - Teachers, they don't (laughing) Nobody does their homework, and you know. - Homework? That's so weird. - Yeah. Everybody's already gotten - Yeah, where's everyone goin'? - Well your ex got rejected. - Good. She's a fucking whore. - Okay. (laughs) Bobby Lachey's goin' to Harvard. - Smart bastard. - Joe is goin' to Westfield. - Of course he's goin' to Westfield. His grandfather went there, his fucking kids are Shit. - Yeah. I got in. Got a scholarship, too. - Okay. What does that mean? - Nothin'. I mean that was the deal, you know? I apply to college, my Three more months 'til I graduate. - Yeah, I better get going. Mom's making shepherd's pie. I'll see ya. (expectant music) - Dig a little hole. Let's go, form up, (mumbles). Before we die alone Okay, we're approaching our target. Everybody watch your sectors. We're gonna move in a wedge formation to the south side of that mountain. Let's head out. Gonna die alone I will have been (mumbles) (gunfire) - [Voiceover] Take cover! (gunfire and yelling) - [Voiceover] (mumbles) cover me! - Take cover! Go! (gunfire) - In position! Move! - [Voiceover] Oh fuck. Oh shit. (speech drowned out by gunfire) - Coming! Coming! (speech drowned out by gunfire) (yelling) - [Voiceover] I got this. Go! (gunfire) You're gonna be alright, buddy. I'll take care of ya. Are you hit anywhere else? - Ammo discipline! (speech drowned out by gunfire) - He shot-- (speech drowned out by gunfire) - Move out! (gunfire) Get him behind cover! (speech drowned out by gunfire) - Come on! (gunfire) He sees me! Come down! I'm up! Down! (yelling) I'm up! (gunfire) - [Voiceover] In position! Move! (gunfire) - [Voiceover] Don't have a clear shot! Take that fucker out! (gunfire) - [Voiceover] Is target neutralized! - Esty! Go make sure that target is down! (ambient music) Esty! I'm gonna die alone I will have vengeance I'm gonna die alone Let me have vengeance I'm gonna die alone I will have vengeance (mumbles) - [Voiceover] If you were a chick, you'd have a pretty nice ass. - [Voiceover] Hey Esty, how thinkin' about that? - [Esty] Heh, for the last five miles. - [Voiceover] Sounds like four You know what? Go ahead and put that on the list of shit you can't say to me anymore. - [Esty] Aye-aye, sergeant. (ambient music) (moves into somber music) (crying) (mumbles) - Ben, (mumbles). Ben, Ben. (mumbles) I love you. It's alright. - [Voiceover] This is bullshit. - Better down here than up there. - I don't like this. - We've been scoutin' for seven hours. Seven miles out. The Hajis are all up in the mountains. Fucking huge, man! Blister on my big toe so big I think it's got a fucking face. - Esty, let me check my big and see if that blister on Yup, hey it's right there. Right next to your jock itch - Oh whoa, whoa, whoa. It wasn't erectile dysfunction. I have poor circulation. - (laughs) Poor circulation. I'll be sure to tell that to my wife the next time I-- (gunfire) (explosion) (gunfire) (peaceful music) You know it's not that far From the places you've been Do you remember when We were so young, we'd spend You thought you were just wrong I think you were just right Weary My bones Carry Me home Dry Our clothes Carry, you (mumbles) - Hi. Listen. Just keep trying. We don't give up. Now, chop me some ship. Get in there. Oh, after you're done, can you get your father, please? - Yo, Pop! Pop. - [Dad] I refuse to answer to that. - [Ben] Pop! - [Dad] What? - [Ben] Dinner. - [Dad] Stop calling me that. - [Ben] Calling you what? - Pop. God, you're making me feel - Which is exactly why he does it. You're just encouraging him. - Oh, this smells delicious. Oh, hey. You don't know what you got here, kid. This broad's a gem. (laughing) Hey you remember your mom's cooking. - Oh, recipes are merely a suggestion, not a requirement. (laughing) - Yeah, she was certainly creative. - As long as you have - Hah! Barbecue sauce and ranch dressing. They were a whole food group. That's probably why you already got that high blood pressure, huh? - [Ben] Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's because of your shitty genes. - [Dad] Shitty genes, me? - Okay, sit, sit, sit. It's ready. Hey, hey, hey, hey. (laughing) Light on peppers, go. Some peppers. - Hmm, no. That's enough. - At least two. - (scoffs) God damn calorie gestapo. - Did you take your pills? They're on your nightstand. - Okay, okay, okay. (solemn music) (engine roars) (siren blaring) - And the surgeon just starts with what was essentially a chainsaw. I mean no warning whatsoever. There was blood and bone - I was taking bone out of - The last thing I remember that hot spit you get and then just, wham! My head hits the floor. Oh, I mean when I finally I was sitting in a wheelchair Imagine opening your eyes, is this guy wearing his - Ew. - And he just looks at you, and he says, do you know how we got here? (laughing) - Oh no! - Which way is the bathroom? - Oh, I'll go with you. Wasting my time And spends all my money And I'm nickels and dimes (moves into eerie music) - [Ben] Tim? - Yeah. - I didn't know you were home. - No? - We should, we should get together It's been awhile. - You know I got every one There's a reason you never got a response. - That's bullshit, and you know it. I mean you know exactly And you know, I deserve it. I deserve worse. I mean I fucking promised him. I should've just-- - Ben, you didn't believe in it, okay? It wasn't you-- - But I gave him my word. - [Woman] You were 17! - I did believe in it! Was I just scared? - I don't know. You know, maybe you Listen, you hate how the military is used. You say it all the time. - This thing's just so fucked I mean what did I think was gonna happen? I'm so fucking stupid. - Ben, you're not stupid. - No, I'm worse. (helicopter flying) (bomb exploding) - Hmph. (breathing heavily) (lighter lights) (inhales) (exhales) (lighter lights) (casts rod) (fishing weight rattling) (reel spinning) (bell rings) - Catch much, Pop? - Hey, if I wanted any of your lip, I'd unzip my pants. - That is gross. - Remember when you said that Mrs. umm-- - Oh, Mrs. Pinkum. - (laughs) God. Your mother was mortified. - [Ben] Yeah, you really let me go down with the ship on that one. - Well that's (mumbles). Yeah well I had to, pal. She would've crucified me. - You know what, this is good. You've been cooped up in that It's-- - I'm sellin' the cabin, Ben. Ben... That place... It's her. She picked out the doorknobs. I just can't do it. I'm gonna go up there. I'm gonna pack some things. I'm gonna close the house down, I'm gonna put a sign out front. Hey, you're coming with me. - Dad, I got so much stuff goin' on, and with layoffs at Lily's-- - I already talked to her. Yeah, you're coming with me. - Alright. - Just make sure you're there - [Ben] We're goin' to the cabin. He loves it up there. He's gonna be fine. - He hasn't been there - I know. - Just promise me you'll - Lill, he's my dad. Okay? I got this. Gonna be fun. What's wrong? - Nothin', I just wanted - Oh, okay. Well bye. Love you. - I love you, too. - [Lily] You sure old - Oh, I already offered. He does not want to take the car. - Yeah, don't worry. She's got one more trip in her. Hey Susie and I have than a quick trip to Maine. - [Lily] How long a drive is it? - [Ben] 10 hours. - Is there cell service? (laughing) How will I know you got there safe? - That's the fun of it. Now don't worry. We'll be back in three days. - I'll let you know and then again when we're on our way home. - Keep him safe. - I will. (engine starts) (taps car) - [Ben] I didn't know you were coming. - I'm here for your father. - Hey, he's here. We're all here. That's all that matters. (peaceful music) I'm surrounded There was (lyrics drowned out by engine) The guns were blazing The battles raging And I'm wondering am I forsaking Or have I fallen Out of grace Tell me where can I go when I needed you Where did you go when I cried Where did you go when I asked for you And where will you be when I die - Oh! I forgot how long of a drive this was. - It's 574 beautiful miles. - Pull over. I gotta take a piss. - So you gonna tell me what the deal is? - No deal. Just thought I'd ask him to come along. - Yeah, this is gonna be fun. (laughing) (knocks on truck) Ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh let it go Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh let it go I've been wantin' Tryin' to keep my head up high For quite some time - [Dad] Seat belts. (laughing) - Hey! Hey! (laughing) I'm up. Hey, hey, hey knock it off! I didn't live through two tours to die in the middle of butt-fuck Maine! - [Dad] Now we're in business! - [Tim] No, no, no, no! (yelling) Cut this shit out! (laughing) Fucking hilarious. - Oh, stop being a pussy! (laughing) Will you be when I die - How far out are we? - About 100 miles. - Oh, that's fucking great. This truck bed's real fucking-- (laughing) Let it go Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh let it go Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Ooh-ohh let it go - Smell that? There's nothing like that. Now you guys grab the bring the fishing poles. I'm gonna go throw the boat in the lake. - [Tim] Want a hand? - Fuck you. I'm old, I'm not dead. Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh let it go Where did you go when I needed you Where did you go when I cried Where did you go when I asked for you And where will you be when I die - You remember that time you got the hook stuck in your thumb? - Oh man, I got myself pretty good. - We were all bent outta shape after that. - I was bleedin' like a stuck pig! - You remember what you said? - No. - You wrap that shit in duct tape. You said, better than stitches. (laughing) - Well yeah, it turns out it Left me with a pretty good scar. - You use duct tape for all Saved our sorry asses (scoffs) What? - Nothing. - Didn't sound like nothing. - [Dad] Whoa. - [Tim] You got something? - No. You're making this awkward. You both got great, big veiny dicks, okay? Let's just fish. - Big? Jesus. (laughing) - [Dad] Hi. Whoa, that's what I call - [Tim] Yeah. - Oh no, after you, our (hits sink) (water running) Oh, excellent. Well now we're in business. Cutting board. What do we got here? What the fuck? You call this a keeper? (laughing) What? - It's pitch black out there. It felt way bigger than that. - Yeah, that's what she said. - To who? (laughing) (stabbing) - Mm, there's not enough (laughing) Gentlemen! Tonight we dine like kings! (laughing) (fire crackling) - I had no idea. - Her grandfather was a bush pilot. Flew her up to Moosehead Lake She wanted to share that with me. - How did you end up here? - Oh, the directions were 20 years old, and so faded, you could barely read 'em. We drove around for hours. (laughs) God, she got us so lost. And then, then we found No electricity, no water. But she knew that was where we were meant to spend our honeymoon. She knew it. Only cost $14,000. So we broke in that night, and we bought it the next day. Your father and I, we when you and Ben were born. But that first week, that was the happiest time of my life. So simple. (peaceful music) (pots clanging) (coughing) I'm hungry. Who's hungry? (coughs) Oh! (coughs) Oh. (silverware clanking) (sighs) (humming) (humming) (egg frying) (laughing) (slow keyboard music) (fishing line drops) (faucet dripping) (clock ticking) (birds calling) (grunting) (vomiting) (breathing heavily) (eerie music) (grunts) (grunting) (moves into slow keyboard music) (gasps) (children yelling) (peaceful music) (children yelling and laughing) (slow keyboard music) - Pop! (coughs) Morning. - What time is it? - [Ben] Like, 10. - No shit. How long has he been out there? - Oh, I shoulda gotten up. Dad! Dad! Dad! Dad! (water splashing) Dad, dad! - [Tim] Hey slow down, slow down. I'll go to the other side. Go, go, go! (grunting) Alright, Ben! Ben. Ben. Grab my hand. - [Ben] No, no, no, no! - Ben, Ben, grab my hand. (grunting) Over here, over here. Grab his head, grab his head! Pull him back, come on! (grunting) Come on! On his back, on his back. You know CPR? Okay, I'll do three minutes, then you. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30. (breathing heavily) One, two, three, four, come on! Come on, come on not today, old man! Come on! Today's not your day! Come on! (breathing heavily) 28, 29, 30! Go breathe, breathe! Breathe, breathe! Good, good, good, good, good! - Somebody! Somebody help us! (slow keyboard music) (breathing heavily) - [Tim] Breathe, breathe. (breathing heavily) It's been two hours, Ben. Ben! - Six, seven, eight, nine, ten. - Ben, he's gone-- - Don't stop! Keep going! - (breathing heavily) He's gone. - Five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. (solemn music) - Hey! (breathing heavily) (crying) (breathing heavily) - What do you want to do? We need to do something. It's been three hours. Things are gonna start to happen. - I know. - Put him in the truck? Drive to the nearest hospital. (crying) (breathing heavily) (grunting) Want to tie it down? I just don't want it sliding around. - Just get in the truck. (engine failing) (yelling) No! No! Fuck! - Alright, what's your plan here? - I'm gonna walk. - Okay great, now let's - What's wrong with you? He's dead, Tim! My dad just died. - Yeah I know, I was here. - Do you even know what this is like? I mean can you be human for one second? - We need to think this through. That's 175 pounds. We're at least 100 miles We don't have the gear, the to carry him that far. - I'll take care of it. - No, you'll end up dead from Then you become my problem. Ben, your arm's already shaking. You haven't even reached - Don't worry about us! We'll be fine. - No! You won't be fine! What you're trying to do cannot be done! Better men have tried, and failed! - Then help me. - I'm trying to. (breathing heavily) - What is wrong with you? - He was old. I'm sorry. He had a great run. Shit, he went out on top! Heart attack in paradise! I can come up with a lot worse ways to go! Sorry I'm not so broken up about it, but this, this is the world - Oh, you're such an asshole. - Why? 'Cause I'm here for him, and not you? I loved the guy, man. I really did. I wouldn't be here if it weren't for him. Not a chance in hell! Really though, what'd you expect? - My friend! I expected my friend! Where's that guy? - Dead. You left that guy. And he died in some shit hole I'm right behind you! You remember that? That guy held his real best friend's hand while he bled out from a shrapnel wound that tore his body to pieces! He lied to him! Told him he was gonna be (somber music) Try being human after that! You ever felt someone's hopes and dreams leave their body? Held their hand as their skin turned gray? And they shit themselves? Where were you? - You never let me apologize. I've always been sorry. - You fucking should be. (grunting) Get the shovels. Can't leave him inside, It's too far. (slow guitar music) (shovels digging) It's not a bad view. (peaceful music) You up? - (sighs) Yeah. - Let's go. (slow keyboard music) You're not drinking enough. Come on last thing we need Come on. - Enough! I'm fine. - Your body needs water. Simple biology. - I'm not thirsty. - Hey man, just take the water. What the fuck, man! We don't have enough - Then just leave me alone! - If you get dehydrated, I won't be able to get us both outta here! - I don't need you to get me outta here. - Alright, fucking tough guy. - You know, I'm so sick Excuse me! Ladies and gentlemen! But we have a real, genuine, Fucking congratulations. You hear that? That's the sound of - You're a fucking prick. - I'm a prick? - Yeah. You. Where do you get off? What do you have to be so mad about? - Everything. - Blowing this out of proportion - I just buried my father in the dirt! - And where you goin' now, huh? Back home? To your wife? To your perfect home? Your perfect little life? - You chose not to have those things. - What? No, I didn't make that choice! I didn't get to! - Please, are you fucking serious? - Yes, I'm fucking serious. No one chooses to watch their friends die. You think I choose to hear - You enlisted again. You chose it. - Where were you? I distinctly remember you Where were you! Say it! - I couldn't do it, man. I couldn't kill my person for that. - You were afraid. Maybe you do think it was wrong now, but you were afraid then, and That's why you feel so guilty. While you were doing keg stands, and fucking that pretty you know what I was doing? - [Ben] I'm sure you're gonna tell me. - Defending your country. Protecting this place. A place you didn't earn. - Then why are you so broken? - I'm not broken. - I think you can't deal and it fucking kills you. - And what have I done? - You killed people, man. You murdered people for something that you didn't believe in. - You think I murdered people? - What else do you call for something you don't believe in? - Oh, please. All that political bullshit the minute, the fucking second, someone is trying to kill I didn't murder them. I stopped them from killing It was us, versus them! We just, we just wanted There's no time to think - So you save people? You're a hero? - No. Heroes don't come home. - Man, I should've been there with you, and for that, I'm sorry. That is my greatest regret. If I could have that moment back, I would do it so differently. But I don't regret not getting - And you think I do? - You should! - You are fucking something else. - What did you expect? That I was gonna worship you - I never asked for that. - Huh, does that piss you off? That I don't shake your hand, and thank you for - You got the freedom to say - Cut the canned bullshit, man! I know you! - You don't know me. - I know it pisses you off! I can see it in your eyes. I'm an ungrateful fuck. Sorry if I didn't want to get - Why don't you tell my dead friends that? - You volunteered! You signed your name At what point do you become in something that you know is wrong? - By the time I re-upped, I gave a shit about why we were there? I wanted to make sure with a 90 IQ, the guy who joined because he wanted to protect his country got to come back home to his mom and dad. And if I didn't go, somewhat who wasn't as good as me, would've. - That doesn't justify this killing! - Do you realize how fucking Soldiers go where you ask us to go! We are a tool, a concept - I understand it! Do you? Or do you just like refuse to process-- - Awful easy to say coming from the safety of your suburban home, where people aren't killing your friends! - It's not that simple! You put yourself in the situation where you had to kill somebody for something you didn't even believe in! I couldn't do that! Yeah, I would have trouble (yelling) (grunting) (yelling) - You done? (punches) (punching) Enough Ben! I don't want to hurt you! (grunting) (yelling) (punching) (grunting) - Fucker. I'll fucking kill you. (choking) (yelling) (breathing heavily) - You're a scrappy mother - I was fighting for my life. (peaceful music) - When I was over there I kept turning on the news expecting to see people protesting trying to bring us home, you know? You know what I saw? Survivor, fucking Kardashians. Did you once try to bring me home? Man, I can't sleep at night, and I probably never really will. While the rest of the country curls up in their Egyptian cotton sheets, and their cozy, gas-heated homes. And they get to dream The price of our way I know I'm not a hero. No sane person comes back proud of everything they did. All I could do was one thing, and that's keep my guys alive. And I did. - So what now? (slow keyboard music) Oh fuck. - Still feels like it's there. IUD got us in a Hum-V. It was fucking (mumbles). Worst part is, I swear I have But when I looked down, nothing. No foot, no shin! My whole God damn leg is gone! I had the coolest fucking 400 bucks fucking wasted. That shit pissed me off. (laughs) - So, so go to colleges. I mean tell your story. Call out the hypocrites. - Come on, Benson. A room full of teenagers talk about shit they know nothing about? No thanks. These kids were four when 9/11 happened. It's about as meaningful as - [Ben] If you're not gonna - I'm the enemy, man. I'm the machine. They'll never hear me even But you know what I would tell them? That it's criminal. That hero shit. When a life gets snuffed Imagine growing up so poor where your only chance for a better life requires you to gamble with it. And for what? Free college tuition, or Which one is it? That is what's fucking criminal. They don't want to be heroes, man. They just want a chance. They want adventure. Wars destroy lives. It shreds friendships. It's not cool, it's not bad-ass, there's no fast cars, no hot chicks. And all the heroes fucking die. But you know what I wonder the most? Is who I would've been. (crying) You feel good about yourself? You beat up a cripple. (laughing) A God damn amputee! (laughing) - Hey, you remember that time we drove up here with your dad? - In the back of the pick-up? - Dude, those puddles were huge! - Downright dangerous. We could've been killed - Yeah, I'm surprised they did that. - You know, you weren't the only one. We were all very concerned about Whatever came of the left one? - Oh, it's still crooked, and way higher than the other one. - Can you still pull - Hell yeah, man! (laughing) Oh, fuck. - Jesus, what happened to your face? What's wrong with my face? (laughing) No seriously, what's wrong with my face? - It looks better than before. (playful music) Does anybody even pick - Rapists and murderers, I think. - Perfect. (laughing) (tranquil music) (sighs) (laughing) Just in case. (engine slowing) (guitar music) I feel no fear I feel no fear I'm never giving back For though you were Though you were Those words of mine So I hold on tight I hold on tight To other songs of yours within my mind And use them to lie Use them to This road on which I All I've seen, and all I wish to know Ooh, ooh Is wrapped within these embers set aglow Ooh, ooh And if we're here to Hey Then there's no place else I wish to go Hey (slow guitar music) I'll feel no fear Of this lonesome path I can't hear The sound of my soul So I walk tall 'Til I touch the roof that (mumbles) Hey When I fall I know that it won't I'll feel no fear I'll feel no fear