Translator: Leslie Gauthier I want you to look and try to find the most (Laughter) And then I want you to point (Laughter) OK, don't actually do it. (Laughter) But, as an organizational psychologist, I spend a lot of time in workplaces, and I find paranoia everywhere. Paranoia is caused by people Takers are self-serving It's all about what can you do for me. The opposite is a giver. It's somebody who approaches &quot;What can I do for you?&quot; I wanted to give you a chance We all have moments of giving and taking. Your style is how you treat your default. I have a short test you can take to figure out if you're more and you can take it right now. [The Narcissist Test] [Step 1: Take a moment (Laughter) [Step 2: If you made it to Step 2, (Laughter) This is the only thing I will say today but I am convinced the longer it takes the more worried we should be (Laughter) Of course, not all takers are narcissists. Some are just givers who got burned Then there's another kind of taker and that's called a psychopath. (Laughter) I was curious, though, about how and so I surveyed over 30,000 around the world's cultures. And I found that most people between giving and taking. They choose this third style If you're a matcher, you try to keep quid pro quo -- I'll do something And that seems like a safe way But is it the most effective The answer to that question maybe. (Laughter) I studied dozens of organizations, thousands of people. I had engineers measuring (Laughter) I looked at medical students' grades -- even salespeople's revenue. (Laughter) And, unexpectedly, the worst performers in each The engineers who got the least work done were the ones who did more favors They were so busy doing they literally ran out of time and energy In medical school, the lowest grades who agree most strongly &quot;I love helping others,&quot; which suggests the doctor is the one who came to med school (Laughter) And then in sales, too, in the most generous salespeople. I actually reached out who had a very high giver score. And I asked him, &quot;Why do I didn't ask it that way, but -- (Laughter) &quot;What's the cost of generosity in sales?&quot; And he said, &quot;Well, I just care that I would never sell them (Laughter) So just out of curiosity, how many of you self-identify more Raise your hands. OK, it would have been more But actually, it turns out because givers are often but they make their organizations better. We have a huge body of evidence -- many, many studies looking that exists in a team and the more often people are helping and providing mentoring, the better organizations do higher profits, customer satisfaction, even lower operating expenses. So givers spend a lot of time and improve the team, and then, unfortunately, I want to talk about what it takes to build cultures where givers So I wondered, then, if givers who are the best performers? Let me start with the good news: Takers tend to rise quickly And they fall at the hands of matchers. If you're a matcher, you believe And so when you meet a taker, you feel like it's your mission in life to just punish the hell (Laughter) And that way justice gets served. Well, most people are matchers. And that means if you're a taker, it tends to catch up with you eventually; what goes around will come around. And so the logical conclusion is: it must be the matchers But they're not. In every job, in every organization the best results belong Take a look at some data I gathered tracking their revenue. What you can see is that the givers They make up the majority of people but also the highest revenue. The same patterns were true and medical students' grades. Givers are overrepresented of every success metric that I can track. Which raises the question: How do we create a world I want to talk about how to do that, but also in nonprofits, schools -- even governments. Are you ready? (Cheers) I was going to do it anyway, (Laughter) The first thing that's really critical is to recognize that givers but if they're not careful, they burn out. So you have to protect And I learned a great lesson about this It's the guy, not the cat. (Laughter) His name is Adam Rifkin. He's a very successful serial entrepreneur who spends a huge amount And his secret weapon Adam said, &quot;You don't have to be to be a giver. You just have to find small ways to other people's lives.&quot; That could be as simple between two people who could It could be sharing your knowledge Or It might be even something &quot;You know, I'm going to try and figure out if I can recognize somebody And those five-minute favors to helping givers set boundaries The second thing that matters if you want to build a culture is you actually need a culture where people ask a lot. This may hit a little too close [So in all your relationships, (Laughter) What you see with successful givers is they recognize that it's OK If you run an organization, We can make it easier A couple colleagues and I We found that on certain floors, and on other floors, The factor that stood out on the floors where it was the norm, was there was just one nurse to help other nurses on the unit. When that role was available, nurses said, &quot;It's not embarrassing, it's actually encouraged.&quot; Help-seeking isn't important and the well-being of givers. It's also critical to getting because the data say that somewhere between 75 and 90 percent starts with a request. But a lot of people don't ask. They don't want to look incompetent, they don't know where to turn, Yet if nobody ever asks for help, you have a lot of frustrated givers who would love to step up and contribute, if they only knew But I think the most important thing, if you want to build a culture is to be thoughtful about who I figured, you want a culture you should hire a bunch of givers. But I was surprised to discover, actually, that the negative impact is usually double to triple Think about it this way: one bad apple can spoil a barrel, but one good egg I don't know what that means -- (Laughter) But I hope you do. No -- let even one taker into a team, and you will see that the givers They'll say, &quot;I'm surrounded Why should I contribute?&quot; Whereas if you let one giver into a team, you don't get an explosion of generosity. More often, people are like, &quot;Great! That person can do all our work.&quot; So, effective hiring and screening is not about bringing in the givers; it's about weeding out the takers. If you can do that well, you'll be left with givers and matchers. The givers will be generous because they don't have to worry And the beauty of the matchers So how do you catch a taker We're actually pretty bad especially on first impressions. There's a personality trait It's called agreeableness, one the major dimensions Agreeable people are warm and friendly, You find a lot of them in Canada -- (Laughter) Where there was actually to come up with a new Canadian slogan &quot;As Canadian as ...&quot; I thought the winning entry &quot;As Canadian as maple syrup,&quot; But no, Canadians voted I kid you not -- &quot;As Canadian as possible (Laughter) Now for those of you or maybe slightly Canadian, you get this right away. How could I ever say I'm any one thing when I'm constantly adapting Disagreeable people do less of it. They're more critical, and far more likely than their peers (Laughter) That's not a joke, (Laughter) So I always assumed and disagreeable people were takers. But then I gathered the data, and I was stunned to find because it turns out is your outer veneer: How pleasant is it to interact with you? Whereas giving and taking What are your values? If you really want to judge you have to get to the moment every and draw a two-by-two. (Laughter) The agreeable givers are easy to spot: they say yes to everything. The disagreeable takers although you might call them (Laughter) We forget about the other There are disagreeable givers There are people who are gruff but underneath have Or as an engineer put it, &quot;Oh, disagreeable givers -- like somebody with a bad user interface (Laughter) If that helps you. (Laughter) Disagreeable givers are the most because they're the ones that no one wants to hear We need to do a much better job as opposed to writing them off early, and saying, &quot;Eh, kind of prickly, must be a selfish taker.&quot; The other combination we forget about the agreeable taker, This is the person and then will stab you right in the back. (Laughter) And my favorite way to catch is to ask the question, &quot;Can you give me the names of four people whose careers you have The takers will give you four names, and they will all be more because takers are great at kissing up Givers are more likely to name people who don't have as much power, who can do them no good. And let's face it, you all know by watching how someone or their Uber driver. So if we do all this well, if we can weed takers if we can make it safe to ask for help, if we can protect givers from burnout and make it OK for them to be ambitious as well as trying to help other people, we can actually change the way Instead of saying it's all about people will realize success I believe that the most is to help other people succeed. And if we can spread that belief, we can actually turn paranoia upside down. There's a name for that. It's called &quot;pronoia.&quot; Pronoia is the delusional belief that other people (Laughter) That they're going around behind your back and saying exceptionally The great thing about a culture of givers it's reality. I want to live in a world and I hope you will help me Thank you. (Applause)