(upbeat music) - Hi, and welcome to Close Up With The Hollywood I'm your host Lacey Rose, and Sacha Baron Cohen, Henry Jim Carrey and Ted Danson. Dive right into this, okay, - Hi, Lacey. - Thank you for having us. - I'm good! - No, really, how are you? - You look beautiful home. All right, complete this sentence. I act because. I don't know what else to do. (group laughing) 'Cause there is no ceiling to positive or negative, that provides that. - Because I can do nothing else. - Really, nothing else? - You write. - Apart from writing. - Okay, it's very rarely. Apart from writing and directing. (group members laughing) - I act because if you did what we do anywhere other than a place they would arrest you. - I act because I'm and acting gives me a chance into 1,000 different for people to watch and eventually I will be ground down into - [Don] Snorted, is that - Snorted, right. who are watching, there is a for Jim's answers. - This is acting. - Remarkably truthful. - Yeah. - You're all broken, let's face it. - Yeah. Why do you look at me? - Did you? - I was looking through you actually. - What about you, Ted? A little bit broken and literally, I'd be a butler maybe, but other than that I have - I would be a child psychologist. - I'd be a child. - That's right, I think it's (crosstalk drowns out speaker) Beforehand everybody's going, how much should we talk about, Henry's sitting there going. I love actors, I love writers, directors. I love going to work through a studio. I do think we're curing cancer and it's an amazing thing so it's a great profession. I mean, that's the reason is that we hold a mirror - So I wanna talk a little bit about, you guys have had tremendous and the fame that comes with that. What do you guys wish you and success when you - I wish that someone had told us about how much of it has to do with that, navigating the business of it and how much you have to where you get to do the How to manage your time, how and your family and how that you need to do to stay a whole person while you're trying to continue when you're on a set, you and I don't think, I think We look at it and go, I wanna play these different people and these different what's all this other stuff? And it's a lot of other stuff. - I'm sorry man, I went Can you? the next part, when I (group laughing) As soon I'd said I you - What about for the rest of you guys? - I wish how to not worry as much, to navigate to where I of going without eating - What were you worried about? - I was worried about everything, about losing it, about not getting it, about not being good enough. Sam Malone, Cheers, it's - Whatever the comfort level I've gotten either 'cause I'm 71 or or whatever it is, I like at a table like this whereas I would have been too full or full of, I'm now finally enough to be able to sit at a table like this. - I think that's great. - [Lacey] When did that happen? - A couple years ago, almost literally. When people started calling oh, all right. somebody had told you earlier on? - Relax and enjoy it, - He said that he was afraid that people would be and then they will tune (group laughing) Your face, I want an age young camera. - Scared, someone scared him. - But what Ted said is exactly correct that about last Tuesday you and enjoy and you That's a great feeling. - This side probably more than that side. - (laughs) Yeah. - [Sacha] You are the - [Lacey] What about you, Sacha. - Oh, you're gonna go there, huh? All right. I mean, firstly, three so it's slightly intimidating to be at a table with these I was scared of becoming famous, but I managed to get away with it because I was lucky enough be famous in England, so for a few years no one actually knew what I looked like. So basically I was able without any of the, can I call it hassle? - Yeah. the great upside other than you would generally be able to date girls that were better looking than you should have been able to date. - Apart from that, I couldn't of being famous, but I with not being famous for many years. I think that fame thing is a tricky thing. - Tricky. I still struggle with it. - It's a weird thing. - It's a weird thing. - 'Cause it's not, yeah. don't come to Hollywood, I'm serious. - Your camera's there, Jim. - Jim, what about for you? I mean, you had it on such a grand scale. All of a sudden you were in the world and your paychecks And I imagine getting out of a car it was being swarmed with people. - And 90% myth as well, so - What does that feel like, what does it-- - People create your life. - They take elements. - That are true and put it in an article so the article looks legit and yet there's so much of the So that's something to kind you know what, in order to go forward I have to let go of what this creation is. And I ultimately found wasn't real, so. - So that left me in an - The mask was not real. and creating about that Many of the things I do have of creating a winning and then eventually for letting it go, you know? - Is there some-- sitting right here. - You can speak to that, right? - Right, okay, don't look at me. (group laughing) - But whhat you're saying is exactly right, and it's People come to you thinking And you just have to it's like a drug, you You want to believe you can walk on water. And you have to just hold on and realize, you are not any taller, you you are not smarter because people think you are wonderful on - I've seen some parts but you know, mostly at the grocery store to I'm like, oh cool, you know? - I'm not jealous of you yet. You can go ahead of me. - Yep. - The thing that I think that over the last couple years I grew up in a really small town. One of the things I didn't like about that is the fact that everybody and so when I was a kid all I wanted to do was get to a city and get to anonymity. - Ah-hah. doing this and at the that I absolutely love that I with people that admire, part of that is sacrificing anonymity, and - No one understands. - What that is, it's You can wanna walk on but then you get up there and there's no air and-- about that. and it's impossible-- the Moon has no gravity? for a day, what would you do? I am so used to-- - You know, that it'd be like. telling me I'm great? once with my family-- - Yeah. - And almost passed out. Mary accused me of being fake (group laughing) during the Cheers years. - I took all the fame 'cause fame is like being a five-year-old and all focusing on you. You can drive that five-year-old kid to bounce off the walls, hey, Cheers, and go, &quot;Thank you so much. &quot;I'd like to introduce you &quot;to this marine biologist.&quot; - &quot;That I think has a &quot;to say about oceans.&quot; And so voom, I would use that energy. And so I've actually really enjoyed making use of my fame, you know? - I like that. I get to use it, too, and it's very effective. - What would you guys do What's the thing, I mean. like I kinda have it. - I have it when I sleep. - Yeah, yours is a little tricky. - So Jim, what would you do? makes a big deal. - What would you do, Jim? - If you had a day where - I don't think I'd be I operate, I dropped the for somebody a long time walk through the world or I wanna do something kinda tip the boat, you know? I don't have any trouble being myself, and I don't have any trouble I don't feel there is a to please everyone, I'm I love people, I would and &quot;who are you&quot; and - Than selfies. because selfies stop the world. You know, they stop life. You then go like that and to give people a false sense of relevance. I picture Steve Jobs sometimes. Everybody's so gaga about Steve Jobs. I picture him in hell running And that's something I Nothing to do with the because they're programmed to They don't even think - I see it completely differently. When people come up and and you look them in the - Presence. that they are with you, and I'm really now calm they are very happy because I've made them laugh, they they sat with their dad, whatever it is, and - So I'm an asshole, is that - [Henry] So if they - I'm an asshole, is that what you're? (group laughing) That's not I wanna say at all. I think you're very interesting. (group laughing) to the selfie or like-- - Or like, I just don't 'cause I've done that. is presence is good. - No, because I always tell them why. I say, you know what, I'd love to but I cannot take it in this restaurant because when you walk away and I will never finish my meal. So thank you so much for asking. - [Don] I get an eye roll - You do? I look at whatever-- and I will be your front man. - It was my birthday last month. - When they come up with an iPhone I say, &quot;Oh, I have a contract with Samsung. &quot;I would love to.&quot; - I can't. That's good. - Just throw it down and dance on it. - A lot of you have played these really sort of indelible roles I'm looking at you, but at this table, what are of the moving on process? for 10 years. - I committed hubris. I thought not that I was great, but that it was such a big show - It was everywhere. from mountaintop to mountaintop. I was going to beat the system. I looked down and there were grass stains on the knees of my jeans 'cause I slid right into the valley, it was as an actor, and I had no plan B. I was seven years old, I I did it and I did it with an explosion. Now it's over and I had no - Was the show being so on all the time, was - No. I mean, I'm sure you felt blessed by it. - I was blessed by it. it's reminding you-- of reminding me all on their own. (group laughing) - No, thank you so much, - 'Cause it was everywhere. - Everywhere, yeah. Sunday, Monday, Happy Days. Tuesday, Wednesday, Happy Days. Thursday, Friday, Happy Days. Happy days, happy days (Jim and Don vocalizing) - Okay. - What about for you? 'cause my character's job wonderful, extreme characters around me. I was the audience's way So I wasn't playing such That allowed me to move on. I wasn't wacky Sam, not - [Henry] No, I totally - But iconic and I was-- what you're saying I think, for me. to sort of lock people in lanes. They want something, a Most often it's because you've What are the things that that you just say, oh, not this again. - I'm grateful for every opportunity, but I will tell you I have turned down a bunch of offers or are just bad versions of the Like, if there is just too I do somewhat reject it out of hand. - Sure. gangly guy who's gonna say in an office and he's gonna wear a suit. Like okay, well, I'm doing that already. - And a really good version of that. - And also this version so like, I'm sure we all try to like-- - I've done several of - Yeah. - [Lacey] Done well, yes. - You know, I mean there although it does involve saying no to work which I never, ever thought I I have tried to be cognizant of it since the beginning of the - Absolutely. - Yeah. a period of getting multi-character ideas. So there'd be films where, in which you're gonna play 10 characters. (group laughing) - One of them is Eddie Murphy. Okay, this takes a long time. You know, so there was a period where multiple character movies and I think there was no understanding that it takes time, and are gonna work and some aren't. And then we've been I think after Borat, because Borat was the first openly that I suddenly started as if somehow I was the So there was a lot of, this Jewish character or I think somehow Borat being anti-Semitic made me appear that I'd be very - All of a sudden you - I was Mr. Jewish, yes, yeah, yeah. - You killed it man, amazing. And I love that movie - Thank you, and likewise. to uncomfortable people and - Scaring the crap out of us. the people who are supposed and I love it. That's a huge... I mean, in your fantasy, - Probably things I'd like to play I probably wouldn't be but I don't know, I when I was at university, you're not in a box there, I would play in the amateur dramatic that was called tragedy comedy which is something like Cyrano de Bergerac or even like Fiddler on the Roof. You have the character the audience love them, and in and then because the audience love you and are engaged with you more they transition really quickly So my eyesight's not playing Cyrano de what these white, I'd see And I'd go, what are they? And they go, they were tissues. They were starting to cry. But it's a genre that you which obviously existed of funny people who can then, because you've kind of got you can then turn it So I think something like that would be-- - Can I coin a phrase? Calamedy. - That's what I look at it as. That's my show is calamedy. It's about a calamity, and and levity and pretty You know, every trauma, to the stars with the or the things that I've had to endure, but they've all turned into - That's great. I've ever had I went to the art studio and I made a painting, you know, I wish people could be here what happens to an artist They don't try to lash They try to turn it into That's what I wanna do. I wanna turn it into something that-- - And I think that's good, for all of us here that your life and your emotions It's pretty cool. - That's what I meant by we are a mirror because the more you are, I mean, I finally defined cool by And the more authentic we everybody, no matter man, woman, child, they all say, oh my God, I see myself 'cause we are all the same. - And so that really is all of that pain and make it into an art that people then can thrive through. - Yeah, I think I'd say that the show that I just did, Who Is America? A guy called Donald Trump got and that anger and I was expressing it by sort you know, sharing articles, And in the end I felt, I was so angry I felt I actually have some characters. - Aimed at-- - Who could sit with some 'cause I wanted to sit with those people who were his friends. - Right. you know, what you sometimes do through other artistic means I was like, it was strange 'cause of doing a bunch of movies like, I have to go back to that's difficult for me because I'm so upset, you know? - Yeah. it was a like, I actually how the show went down, I mean, SHOWTIME's gonna be upset about this. I said to them, okay, I go, because I just had to get it - Today we're gonna teach you how you can stop these naughty men and have them take a long nap. - That's right, and that's a friend of mine, his Now, Philip, will you show - To feed him, take his lunchbox like this, just remember to right at the middle of the bad man. - I'm curious if you're you've sat with, when did you I mean, I know in the case of Sarah Palin you felt like you didn't have it. What made you realize, What were you looking - You feel it in the room, I mean, the difference of doing stuff on stage and the stuff that we do is 'cause people aren't otherwise they ruin the take. Now obviously, you know, just the cameramen, but if it's funny and also - But is funny the goal or is What's the goal? It has to be, for me, I love being funny so it has to be funny and that interests me, then I'm I wouldn't say happy, but you know, if a politician drops his - It's unbelievable and how you are able to get people to, or maybe it's not unbelievable because these people are just waiting for an opportunity to share their truth. - Right, yeah. But that the amount of the nerve that you're able to I'm just cringing when I watch - Yeah, thank you, truly. - And yet you've said, sitting across from you that he doesn't confess to murder. - I didn't say I was disappointed. I had an absurdly ambitious aim (group laughing) - A Perry Mason ending. right at the end of the some things that I was surprised by, so I never thought that a politician would get his buttocks I was surprised by a lot of-- - The art dealer with the public hair. - Yeah. - Was just too much for me. - I do like the idea that a has anybody just asked OJ if he did it? Has anybody just asked him? could I-- - Could I-- just ask him. because once he gets wrecked then he's violating the - Oh, I see. but I still trained up - Oh, wow. this is reaching too high, because it was hidden camera. I though, would he, if it would be in a hotel he's gonna earn a lot of with supposedly the and eventually he goes, And I go, &quot;It's for O.J.&quot; He goes, &quot;That's gonna And then he sort of trained me up. I didn't manage to get him - He's not in your ear, there's no earwig. You went in and just did it. with people who are to actually get them to-- - To admit to stuff, that I'd memorized to try and - But that you'd gone 'cause it doesn't look like that. That's the only thing, it he's checking off a bunch of boxes. It just looks like you're - Yes. a real skill because these very fastly just move into I would never say, I would never-- - So what's the sequence? is-- Like, come on. A lot of questions, come on. - Just you and me. - That was basically part of the thing. Part of the thing was-- then you say, come on. Come on, it might be that she walked into the body and threw herself off the yacht, you know. And then suppose it is being - Right. there's a kind of incremental where you say, you know, with what you did that night? And then you go, how did you get away with what you did to them that night. And then, it's sort of an incredible art, but he never admitted. - I'm just sorta nervous now - I know, I know. - You're gonna start asking me questions. - Hey Ted and Sacha. - I'm hoping you'll tear me open, man. I can't live with this anymore. (warm instrumental music) - When were the last time you guys were sort of genuinely or maybe it's how the - [Don] Yes. - Yes, and. - Yes, I mean, yeah, if and truthful I think you're-- - Kinda putting yourself out there. - Give me an example of when that was. - [Timothy] Do you mean - No, work-wise. - I've only ever been disappointed when I had reached for in some authenticity, even if it's a wildly animated character. - If it isn't based in then I feel I've raped myself. - Yes, it's difficult for some. But you know, that's when when I'm on a track that isn't authentic. - But it takes a while. - To get to that realization. ever with authenticity. - And I was really frightened when I started kinda sharing and my truth and there that if I actually didn't score, if I didn't hit a funny line they would think I was pompous and they would turn against me and say, who they fuck do you think you are? And I've never had that reaction, ever. - I'd like to ask a which is that your style of performance was completely unique, somebody give, first he's but you'd never seen anybody give as, put as much energy into-- all of it, yeah. I mean, it was like seeing an electricity somehow unleashed-- - So I'm interested, when of performance did your state change? What was the feeling when you're-- - It was a like a fugue state, really, it's like a fugue state, but you know I-- - Like a what, sorry? - Like a fugue state. - Like you wake up afterwards. - You know, and go, what happened? - That's what it looked like. Ace Ventura was a way and that, you know, the and at the same time it's pure love. There's so much love except for the one I'm but even them I just wanna go, you know this is bullshit, right? You know you're full of it. But the performance is And I love actors who employed every bit of their you look at James Dean, this everything with every, you know, he didn't just get It was tearing him apart! You know, and it was everything was in it, and I love that kind of thing, as a kind of painting, you know? And it's an abstract So I know the method, I know Stanislavski and I know Meisner and I know I use it, and at the So don't tell me the eyes can't both be on this side of the head. any other comic performance film history I've never really exuded, I mean, it's hilarious, but I think it's completely unique. - It was so unique for me, it was so unique that when &quot;Oh, no, no, no, no,&quot; turned it off. And then I came back I mean, it literally oh fuck, look at this. - It was so new to my eyes. - It was like, it took me. the most wonderful experience I was in Chicago doing a live gig. My manager sat me down at and they said, &quot;We got kinda bad news. &quot;Siskel and Ebert killed you&quot; And don't know what's next from here. - This was before Ace Ventura. before it came out they And I just looked and it said, Worst actor ever made, this is the end. This is whatever. No one had seen it, so. I've been disappointed so I have an automatic downshift. I go, well, okay, don't but I'm gonna have to break a And what happened to my was that by the time Siskel and Ebert did an and called it Jim And I get emotional thinking about that. It was incredible, like they And I've never seen a critic say that. But of them said, we were wrong. We didn't know what we were seeing. - That's validation. just a wonderful thing. what makes you nervous, I mean, you took on, I to the Me Too movement But I am curious sort of in that, and I believe that started Do you get nervous, do you think about where that line is, - Well, I mean, I think to this show I've never worried involved are so good at and always making sure that the So I never, I think having like is in our writers room is incredible. But as a performer I never about it just because ultimately the joke is never on any of the people he is saying terrible things about. It's always on how - He is. (crowd applauding) - Go ahead, say something. - Yeah, no, you have to, Look at how hot she is! Yeah, I get sprung. so much, my Jonie, he And I know that when he's gonna sweep all the (crowd cheering) to find a broom that's (crowd laughing) - I just want to make it clear that she does do all the housework. - Because it's politics but then world politics under the sun that we And moving forward, I think I - There's no side to it either. Everybody's in the frying pan. - That's terrible. I will miss that level of I am looking forward about every single thing But yeah, I do think like the Not Me joke wants to Nobody would think that was funny. So I do think that from the oh, they found a really I just had a dumb, I I was raking and I had a dumb pitch and I called up our the very beginning of into what it became. - With you I've heard you sort of take storylines or jokes and they take it as far and then you sort of you can say that, I'm. You can say that joke. You wanna come in and do that one? I gotta walk around in the space of that. No, I'm not doing that. some examples of that - And ruin it right now? for that Seth and Evan. on fire, no, they just push because you don't really know until you've stepped that was the line, I But I think that the protection is always that the joke is always on the people that are saying the line, of the people that are the subject of it. It's that these people are so blind to, they have no self awareness because they're trying to process this through their prism of blindness, and that's why they are They are the people who are the joke. Both of the writers are Jewish some anti-Semitic jokes. - And I'm like, I'm not doing that. You can say that one, I'll - Another thing that happens in your show is a tremendous amount and I remember hearing Seth Rogen, one of your producers say is much funnier than cocaine today. - Correct. what are the sort of unexpected challenges of playing high, and I'm at this table who have-- - I'm so blasted right now. - I didn't mean now, I meant. the fuck out. Can we move on? like a talking sponge. - That's why this came up, isn't it? - Yeah, yeah. - No, it's, yeah, I think it's funny then because we are now, because we're here and we can see where that's not gonna work out well for you. I know you think now that but it's not gonna work out. in the '70s. - And it was-- that were when I started, in the show, but they were - Yeah. was where you got your cocaine. - To go, of course. - Absolutely. to be a square, but my God, I feel like I have 1/2 a glass of wine and I worry about call the next morning, like I'm such a loser. of it, it was just like do it. into the addiction to - Yeah, that's true. - You'll get there, - Plenty far along. about it playing on screen? - Yeah, there's hope, you'll get there. - Is that fun, easy, - You know, you're kinda wired already. And the B12 doing it over and over again. And it can kind of get you on. - Approximating the high. - Yeah, it's B, or coke. one of the two. if you're already there, then that you need a little - Powdered elephant tusk. - That line you were talking about. - That's the line. - Oh, I just stepped over and it's a rail, it's not actually a line. (laughing) - Jim was talking a bit about from the people who perhaps didn't have the same I'm curious, you got on You pulled out of your pocket a speech that was one that you How much of that was - I loved winning it. It sits on my dining room table, which is directly opposite the front door. So when the man delivers my (group laughing) But that's it, I never I never thought, oh, it took so long. I thought, okay, in I'll tell you what I was not prepared for. When you're nominated Everybody says, oh my - It's an honor. until your tush hits the But people treat you differently - How so? They literally treat you different. Oh my God, and I'm talking in the industry, when there is something, a that I thought, this is strange. - Do you get a car? - Do you get a car? - Oh. - I had a different, I was before I won. - And when I won people would say, well you have, like People don't know. - Yeah. and my experience was like-- you didn't win before. of you were robbed was (group laughing) And you were robbed was kind of a nice... - No, I don't know, the is a little bit tiresome. - Because you don't enter this - Tell some other boy - Can't use that love anymore. I was just happy that I won when I won. And when I turned around and the pressure of having and the only thing that kids, you can go to bed now, and of course the kids are - They're already in bed. - I was there that night, I was robbed. (group laughing) - In these characters that what are the pieces of that you have sorta infused into them? - The demon that I - Yes, that one. for me just having this for a few times. - Yeah, was the performance. When people ask, &quot;What's your process?&quot; Nowadays I try the words on over and over and over again and slowly if the words are really well-written words, the words start to inform me. It becomes a dance that enough time that you then perform it. I get to play this character Michael, and if I do the words well comes out and I'm so I guess I'm there in the moment, but I can't say that I... in it. this week that underneath that I make myself more I'm a two-story fiery squid, so, you know. - [Don] That's what I would've guessed. - What draws you to that role? What do you see? We signed on to Mike Schur's idea. He literally talked to us There was no script and we went, okay. And I'm really glad I did It's about decency, it's about there are consequences to your actions. And in this kind of day and it's disguised in nine-year-old fart humor and lots of visual about something that matters. - Who are you really? - All right, all right, fine, - One. - Serious question. - Should we kill them? - It might work. We kill them, go back through the door, somehow grab them before and regroup from there, I You know, it would be easy, their bodies are very poorly made. They're mostly goo and juice. You just take the juice - Jim, you said if the Jeff a few years before it ultimately was you wouldn't have been ready for it. Why not, and what made - (sighs) The struggle to maintain that wonder and that divine spark in a world that's seemingly Also, the grief aspect of together when you've been And you know, I have, and I don't believe that any unless that part finds them. You don't find parts, they find you when you're ready to do them and you have those feelings. I want to do a show about - I don't think we want to - No, not passing on, death. I don't want to say my or hula-hooping with a halo. I want to say death. but I don't think you're - I don't think I'm not ready I think we need to heal. - I mean, what about What was it about this guy? - I love him. I've only taught four or five times, and I have thoroughly enjoyed it. It is written so well that (group chuckling) And again, everything is, we are blessed with wonderful writers because it ain't on the stage. I love the people that I work with. They are an incredible And I just thoroughly love - (knocks on door) Cousineau? - Hey, Private Pyle, how you doing? - Oh, let's not call me that. - The story, just an idea. There's an embellishment Actually it's a colostomy that Brian Dennehy used during Deathtrap. When he was shot, he would. (groans) - To piggyback on what everyone has said and that you ape and act (group laughing) That, you know, it's true. You are bringing yourself to these roles. We don't completely shut We're there and you're exercising and you're accessing different different parts of your pain, and trying to find where And sometimes you're reaching for things that are out there beyond you that you're trying to scaffold to and other times you're like, Can we not do that beat right now? But if you're really honest, and I think all of us probably with the writers that - Absolutely. It's not like they just stick say all of that, you know. You're always in a conversation, and when you're in that conversation you're trying to get to the best iteration of what that thing is so to these moments, and I mean, my writers are to improv a scene and they go, &quot;That's good, that was better, move on.&quot; You know, best answer wins. - Mm. - What kinda car you drive, kid? - Oh, 'cause I drive a Honda - I don't drive shit, I get driven. - Mm-hmm. AKA a Lambo limo, AKA a Limbo. - So you get none of the and none of the comfort of the limousine? - Yeah, but it costs This guy is not a car - I don't like your fucking tone. - You don't know shit about cracks. Who are you, Pfaff, who are you? - What were the moments when I don't know? In talking about the too there's other people that it affects. So sometimes I don't talk about it because it's very personal, but I have had more than one instance in where you're like, why is that's also happening in my life that these people didn't - Oh, interesting. that I'm getting to work with these other great that's really something in my personal life. - Yeah, there's a synchronicity. - Yeah. - Yeah, it very often happens to me I've found in my work, and you're going, what am I pulling toward me? You know, it's not just for you to go get, a lot are kind of coalescing wow, did I pull that in so in some way, and it just So I always feel like there's - It what you're doing. (upbeat instrumental music) - And Sacha, I have to ask you, what are the wildest circumstances or perhaps didn't secure In some cases you're as you're trying to get it. In some cases you're trying to - Yeah, to get in the room with the person is already a terrible ordeal. So we managed to secure an but it was at a hotel in D.C. I'd been living undercover because I didn't wanna - Wow, wow. asked for a picture of me. - What does that look like, then? What does living undercover? your face for three weeks. and stuff like that. wigs, is it masks, wigs - I don't want to go but it's mainly staying inside and you're never going to avoid being seen. - Or you can't use your for as long as you're undercover because the first person we interviewed when we got into D.C. was Bernie Sanders. They were concerned, his are great because they and they said, &quot;What's going on?&quot; But the channel didn't know so they actually honestly It's fine, they then said, a terrorist group that are and we might have a congressional hearing. So there was a game of cat and mouse. So I knew I had to kind Then with Ben Carson we and that hotel that we picked, there was a problem because of other politicians and there and a bunch of other and the place was full of Secret Service. So me even getting to the room 'cause there's Secret Service. with your ID. You don't have present your he came with his own Secret Service, so I'm in the other room saying, and there were probably about He comes with two Secret Service, but you know, we'd made a mistake. We'd gone to the worst where all these other to make sure nothing happens. - And by the way, the it sounds like complete paranoia, but some of them disguise And I'm obviously disguised. - Oh my God, balls. and I realize he's got and I get on the phone what happens if they ask to see ID? - Yeah? - Like if they go and see it's me and blast it you know. - I said, &quot;Listen, I've got fake ID. &quot;Can I present my fake ID?&quot; And they go, &quot;No.&quot; At the end of the phone he goes, &quot;No, you're gonna go to jail.&quot; - I go, &quot;What happens if the fake ID &quot;falls on the floor and the - You're not actually presenting it, okay. - Yes, and he goes, &quot;All &quot;out of it, but you might get arrested.&quot; So you're going into a scene knowing that you're trying to work out the percentage of something bad happening. And then we booked another room which was in case we got that I would go to, so his This is the kind of, this is the problem of the stuff that I do which is that you make one mistake - Right. - So it was tragic for me but Ben Carson literally, and the White House Press 'cause I was playing this and I had these kids toys and he said, &quot;Why have you got all those kids toys?&quot; I was like, &quot;You know, we're And he said, &quot;Unboxing, why?&quot; And he suddenly realizes is coming in to unbox and he and pulled it so the Secret but then the rest of the are alerted to the fact And obviously they have to So I then go to the under a different name. - But then we have a and he's like, &quot;They're listening in.&quot; I actually thought that But it turned out that he was right. And then we're playing cat and mouse with the Secret Service. and you're jumping around. who I am because they have to treat it as a security threat. - And then we're trying to - (mimics silenced gun shooting) I like that guy. - And then also you're off even this, then it's, we know that Secret are looking for this guy. - This Finnish guy. They don't know what's happened, but somebody's tried to do something. - So how do you get out? And then we're working out And you know, we've got a back route. We always have escape routes, - Now you're gonna get the interview. - And we find out they're - What are the escape route? so we ended up going the main entrance, and &quot;If anyone comes towards I go, &quot;What does that mean?&quot; And he goes, &quot;I'm gonna stop 'em.&quot; I go, &quot;Is that legal?&quot; He goes, &quot;yes,&quot; and he goes, &quot;from the elevator to that car.&quot; And so a lot of, 80% of and getting out. - Of situations. - I'm absolutely terrified. and more and more. - I don't know, yeah. I don't know what it is, I mean, we did this scene a mega-mosque in this town but you have the other stuff-- - They were really upset, but where you say, okay, we wanna make sure that even when they get upset we know they're probably gonna get upset because they probably coming into their town, we wanna make sure that nobody's going to pull a gun. And so we had a security &quot;Listen, you know, the great thing is &quot;you're all right,&quot; because &quot;I've made you a bulletproof clipboard.&quot; And I go, &quot;What do you mean?&quot; - Because if someone someone snuck in a gun and pull out, use the clipboard and - Yeah, just deflect the bullet. - I go, &quot;It's this big.&quot; I go, &quot;What do I put it over, - Center of mass, they - Groin, groin. he goes, &quot;I don't know, because &quot;that I was told,&quot; so - An actor's choice. - So we had like a scene like that and it got fairly aggressive he said, you know, it got nearly violent because I accused somebody I said, &quot;Excuse me sir, are you a Muslim?&quot; And he'd go, &quot;You say that - Yeah, he said he was - Yeah, yeah. - And then, so, you know, I think, you seem like you're a Muslim, and it became confrontational actually. - And what's going through your head? I'm gonna risk this, I got my clipboard? - I go deep into character at that point. If it feels like it's going to get violent then you can't, the worst and then realize that You don't go, hey, oh, and expose your racism. - Then you're really in trouble and then what I'm doing in my head, not really fully aware of what's going on, but I'm trying to edit the scene so I'm trying to, I know the the joke, the following joke, - How do you get out, yeah. for that. is probably your out. - I wanna get out. It has the end on the end. - That's astounding. - I have fucked up so many scenes where the only threat was Like, that's the only - My biggest problem is overhead lighting. I'm 57, man, it scares the hell out of me. - It's interesting, in a scene okay, let's do the scene again. And we know that it's gotten you know, now I know why 'cause we took their guns off them, weapons off them before they got on a bus that took 'em to the river. Then we knew that the next group that were coming into the room, 'cause we wanted to do the scene again. Do another take, we have to get another. They would have their and we were concerned get upset, get their - Sure. you've gotta act as the producer. And so I had a meeting with everyone. I just said, listen, we're now aware of how angry people are getting. I want you to opt in to the next scene. In other words, I'm assuming unless you say now, I'm gonna stay because we're aware that we're not gonna be stuck in this hole and everyone with their guns outside and not letting us out, you know? So we had, it was a kind of odd-- - Do people, I mean, how - In the end I forced quite - You did? 'Cause everyone said, &quot;No, actually you guys are going.&quot; You know, and obviously you but at the end of the where violence is being threatened. We know that most people and we knew that it was a possibility that we might be on lockdown. We might have to stay in the building. - How do you deal with people, - That I can't get into, but. - That scares you? - 'Cause your faces as he's - No, it's wonderful, but It is dangerous. - It truly is, I mean, at The Comedy Store where I with a broken beer bottle, you know. I mean, it got crazy, insane. - Oh, absolutely. you have-- out because I stayed up I would go at them, it was not, okay, you don't like what I'm doing. there for hours, didn't you? particular night, in fact, because the audience hated me so I just-- - Punish. in self-punishment and - And it's kinda finesse. - I just, anti-authority, And I'd rather get hit than back down. - Wow, I'd drop to the floor. - I'm with you. I stayed up so long through the air, it was There was swizzle sticks and things like that and then I said-- - Where was this, in LA? It was a Saturday night in the main room. 250 people paying top dollar and whatever and it became a war. or was this en route? - Did you feel like you - [Sacha] If you're Jim - Well, I don't know if I-- - Well, I'll tell you how the war ended. So I finally got offstage to huge applause just because I mentioned that I was going to leave the stage. And they were just like. (growls) Like that, and I left the stage. Then I crawled through the popped up behind the piano and started banging on I hate you all, you gave me cancer. And it was an entire improvised song-- - And they loved that. One at a time the tables got up and-- - Did you write it on the spot? - Yeah, it was just blaming that are being formed, and until the entire audience left, literally the entire audience who stood around the piano they said, &quot;This is the greatest thing &quot;we've ever seen in our lives.&quot; - But that's performance art. Now it turns into comedy. and I cried all the way home. - Yeah. - Because I don't wanna I'm here to make people - So you lost. So sometimes that gets out of hand. - What a conundrum. of a left turn, but I wanna ask, why do you guys do comedy? where it literally pushes either at a party or on the sound stage. You literally have timing, You can't read about it in a book. It is in you or it isn't, It is more difficult just straight drama, because it looks so easy. - And much less respect after today. - Hush. a surfer, it's like being a surfer. You're in the water and and it's an opportunity to be funny. And if you have that instinct am I gonna ride this wave? It's a bit dangerous, - I don't know that you make the decision. The image is exactly And I don't think, well, for me anyway, I don't think sometimes I have the choice. I think that wave is coming I'm on that board come hell or - Well, maybe I'm kidding especially if you're saying something that's slightly dangerous, of Acapulco moment. - Where the tide has come in, - Right. it's gone forever. - But you know, most of - You gotta go. - And I also think it's something, that to piggyback on it breaks down walls and it's and when you know when people and even if they don't no, that one got you. - And once you're in and you can make poignant moments and you can make them feel things deeply because they're unguarded. They've let down their and you can move around in there. And it's easy to do-- in both spheres, I mean it's... - I guess, I mean it's just, between it when I was coming up, which is where we all probably, you're still that kid, eight, nine, 10, whatever years old that I can play this character and people laugh and then people are sad. It's still kind of that, it's still the same thing for me, I feel, when you come because people-- I remember just that being-- - So impactful, you know, I mean, that really changes - Yeah, and even in that, at the beginning we The character was telling and messing around and cracking jokes. You get in with him because you're like, oh, I like this person. This person makes me feel And once your guard is down now you can take people everywhere. And that's something - I think comedy is like People like Bill Maher and-- - And Colbert and they're in a comedic way, but I do believe that when it comes down to it there ain't nothing funny about that. And if you give them a It heals in that moment, for the audience and for the enemy. And the enemy goes, is this a joke? I want people to know how serious I am about the threat that faces us, you know? And if I make it a joke, but if I make it a joke - Okay, well I watched at the end of the night because it is like an antidote for the day. - Yes, mm-hmm. underneath those jokes, they are serious. - Yeah, for sure. unless you're on the You know, if it's just frivolous, and that's something we it has to really be about and that's impactful or - So there you go, you When it is frivolous, you are so right, then you're missing the when you walk that edge. - Wow. - It is, but I think there's so they know what you mean. I don't know that I had much Like, I have always been somebody I think from when I was the serious things, I just have only ever been able to deal with and this lens of like, oh, well I need to make myself comfortable in And there is, I don't I had a conversation with recently that sometimes with your family, I don't sometimes throwing bombs, but it just, I don't know when it happened but just ever since I was a kid in whatever situation it well, I'm just gonna put this Like, it is fun. - And I do feel like you can-- is great. but the reward sometimes is, like, this is an impenetrable person - Yeah. - That is a really amazing you can get to it a different but my way into it has - Complete this sentence. I knew I made it in Hollywood when. - I wasn't dead yet. - Interesting, when you weren't dead yet? - Kinda, I mean, really I really feel like they say, well, let me look back okay, I did that, I felt - Careers are something you look back at. - Yeah, I mean, I feel like all of us, there's a bit of impostor syndrome I think that comes up for at some point they're just gonna go, yeah, we've had that flavor, - I feel like everybody that I've met, like outwardly you look oh, well that person's They're sailing, like they're and then you meet 'em - You bet. and it doesn't matter, and I've made it in Hollywood, I don't know that that actually exists. - Okay, but you do have of success and feeling like, - But it's fleeting. Steve Buscemi at a party one time, and I will fucking tell - That was your moment, okay. right there. - I knew that people when I went from my first I got off the plane at 11:30 in '50s clothes and I And the stewardess said, And I went, &quot;Oh, people are watching. - Yeah, wow. have not made it, basically. - We just discovered. it's the people you meet, the You know, I grew up with Dick Van Dyke, and I was a complete - Me, too. to meet Dick Van Dyke and them saying that they love what you do is really meaningful. - I just drew him a of RCA Television from 1969 of the opening credits where he trips over the ottoman. - What a great show. and I did a cartoon of myself in front of the television, and those are the types of things I'm constantly being Oh my gosh, that's wonderful. And the first time I think was a huge thing for me and it was like they planted me, you know, and I had a chance to bloom on that show. So I got a taste of it there. And that time in Chicago hated my movie and then Friday happened and it was a giant hit, where I was staying put with candies in it. - (knocks table) Did it. Never gonna be the same. - I think it's a 'Cause careers, if you celebrate then it feels like you're slowing down. So you're always looking for what's next or what can I do better? Or one of these days, You know, that kind of thinking, you know, as opposed to celebrating, but you also don't wanna be a shmo and - You bet. - [Ted] Thank you, but - You bet. you have to pick up the - Absolutely. whatever that crown is that is like, there's two choices. You reject it, you push it away, you don't think you deserve I'm gonna wear this as well as I can. - And it's usually in Fame is not, you know, you Someone comes up and says you're famous and you are gracious and you meet them at whatever level they're - Was there a pinch me moment for you? - No, but I'm gonna have one, I swear. - It's coming? I'm through acting. - It's coming for you. Dick Van Dyke for a second? - Because I grew up with no - I'm still doing his stuff. By the way, Sonic is coming that I can't wait for him to see. - That's one. So the first thing, I Stanford University freshman, literally ever, I tapped crawled out of the thing, turned it on and it was 11 o'clock in the morning and it was a rerun of Dick Van Dyke, and that was my first with Dick Van Dyke and he played my father and it - Wow. - Yeah. my physical. - There was one time where Paul McCartney in like a Twitter question somebody asked him what and one I think was and then he mentioned our show in this, like, those are my two favorite shows. And I do think there was a It was interesting to know in that moment that you were a part of - Yeah. - Like, that seemed like a gigantic thing. You didn't even get to take but there was a thing, like I grew up, I lived my entire life and a Beatle knew something that I did and that seems in itself insurmountable. Like, that was a moment that was cool. - John Cleese for me. - [Ted] When he knew Cheers - Oh, really. - What's the moment for you? - There were a lot of moments. I mean, connected with this table, I used to do a character called Ali G. I was shooting in LA and who was Jim's manager and he said, &quot;Jim loves your stuff. &quot;He wants you to come over to his house.&quot; At that time in England that no one would ever get to Hollywood. You know, it had been or 25 years since Python, that English comedy will And I remember the next night I was invited, I wasn't just-- I broke in and I-- - And he opened the door. And you know, it was the and obviously brilliantly talented. And he knew what I was doing. And my other hero was who unfortunately passed away. I couldn't believe that I was there. And I was completely Jim and Gary started making jokes. And at one point he made a joke, you won't remember any of this, he did a really funny And I thought, oh my God, at some point they're gonna expect me to make it-- - Get on the board, get on the board. - Get on the board. - But that was an amazing grown up in a suburb of you know, I thought I or something like that. I never thought I could out of being funny, you know? - I had two choices with and I chose admiration. - But I assume that is - Yes, it is. - When a new voice comes along and you go, ooh, there's a You know, have you lost your - Yeah? - But it wasn't that. I've always tried to what's this person doing? that night, yeah. feel uncomfortable and laugh my ass off. And it's admiration, and that's - Two things, this is I whatever you wanna call it. - That you've made it is who you get to meet, you know, who are playing at is really exciting. Do you remember the People - Oh, for sure. and I was always on who's not. - I kept thinking-- - Didn't I have-- - Didn't I have to be hot - (laughs) I never got to be hot, I'm just not, not, not, not. the logic of this People Magazine. - Thank you guys so much. - Thank you. of this conversation.