Fake olive oil has become an epidemic. According olive oil on the market may be fraudulent. Maybe problems with fake or mislabeled olive oil have from Italy to Spain to Portugal. And the vast and beverage sector now involve olive oil. So Soaring temperatures in the Mediterranean region stock of olive oil has dropped and the prices have to sell fakes because you make them cheap and then Now even leaving aside health effects, if you want get... olive oil. So here are seven tips to dodge oil. Number one, single origin. Quality olive oil the same area. Ideally, olives are pressed shortly they're being shipped from different countries the oil will usually be less fresh. Now, don't be very specific information. If the oil was bottled were grown, that's information that legally of course, and that's usually a sign of a lesser &quot;bottled in Italy&quot;, which makes it sound like Here's a real world example. This looks totally blend starts to give it away. And then you look Greece, Spain, Tunisia, Egypt, Turkey, Syria, Nations. And it's packed in Italy. So these oils and bottled in Italy. Not ideal. Another one three or four different countries. The fact that is total marketing. I mean, the air in Italy assemble a Yugo in Rome, it doesn't make it a that's a bit more informative, not necessarily from four different countries before it's blended specifies one country, but also an oil that flavor and the quality of an olive oil is tied to the weather, the type of olive. So quality olive they were grown and bottled. So it might say than just Spanish oil or Italian oil. In general, even have a QR code that you can scan to trace the less likely it's a fake. Number two, harvest date. but if it does, it's a good sign. It suggests oil within two years of its harvest date, ideally have a best buy date. But that's not the same actually harvested. This also means that if you if your bottle lasts you a while, it might not be end up consuming it past that ideal period of right amount for you considering the timing of the container matters. Ideally, you want to shoot out sunlight and preserve the freshness. And glass plastic. Number four, don't fall for empty words smooth, gentle, authentic. This doesn't pure olive oil and light olive oil usually refers Don't confuse extra light with extra virgin. oils coming from three different countries, Spain, the oil to fry something, for example, maybe a quality extra virgin olive oil and don't get organic olive oil doesn't necessarily mean were organic. Another one, cold pressed olive oil extra virgin olive oil is extracted without heat. chemical specs like polyphenol count and free acidity should be low. For an extra virgin olive have this information on the label, but if they have this information on their website. Now, most or extra virgin olive oil, and that's because benefits and the refinement process reduces those just like extra virgin. It's just a little more that you're going to use it in, it might be fine. virgin tastes a little better. Now, is it enough According to a test run by the UC Davis Olive center dedicated to studying olives and olive oil labeled extra virgin, sold in California. to meet the standards for extra virgin status. So virginity is just the beginning of the problems. virgin olive oil, there's a good chance it's it might not even be olive oil. Some fake olive with other vegetable oils that are cheaper, but in stuff like lamp oil and dyes. As reported by the a massive seizure of fake olive oil in Italy this bottled and labeled as Italian extra virgin olive this sting Operation Yellow Gold. Wait, isn't olive oil is such a huge operation that even the Turkey, Northern Africa, and then they sell and Japan. They even have a whole sector of the products called the agromafia. I don't know scariest mobsters. You got your drug lords, your Probably not a lot of street cred, but actually is a multi-billion dollar business. According to oil can be higher than cocaine. And with far less Narcos spin-off where they're smuggling olive in dark rooms. Actually, I would totally watch certification. In Europe, for example, there's the have this red and yellow seal on the bottles they or Italian, this acronym will be inverted. So protected geographical indication, or PGI, or IGP yellow seal. In the U.S., the California Olive Oil gets all the reputation, but actually California a second. Australia has some good ones as well. oil. The North American Olive Oil Association has released lists of the different brands and the include some of those in the description. So this It's not 100% I guess because you could fake been approved by these organizations that have the there's a ranking by consumer reports, and among of certification, some are ranked much higher than olive oils they tested ranked really well, even certification. And here's some good news, quality Consumer Reports ranking, one of the top ranked extra virgin olive oil sold by Aldi, and it does another separate ranking where they looked at that were pretty high quality and were pretty to that ranking in the description as well. All of or four dollars a bottle, that's more likely to really, really hard to produce a high quality I'm not affiliated with any brand or any store. They didn't make me an offer I can't refuse. can't really go by the color of olive oil. That's they'll add pigments like chlorophyll, for a little bit of that green tinge. So the color can fake olive oil will just taste greasy and dull. like waxy. Real olive oil has that characteristic call it peppery. The peppery taste or aftertaste of course, it tastes like olives at the end of it tastes like, it's much harder to fool you. tip number seven is a bonus tip. Once you have do you store it to lock in all that goodness? You keep it somewhere dark and cool to protect it from next to the dishwasher or close to the oven, close of course, that's because you get indirect heat. you cap it tightly to avoid air and oxygen from diet, is it healthy, is it not? Check out information on labels and expiration dates, check