Lewis: People are going to constantly judge We're going to be judged. Either way. If we sit on a couch all day, our parents Go do something with your life.&quot; If we go chase after the most audacious dreams us and try to bring us down. So we might as well go do something with our and move on. Tom: Hey, everybody. [00:00:30] Welcome to Impact Theory. You are here, my friends, because you believe but you know that having potential is now it. Our goal with this show and company is to will help you actually execute on your dreams. All right, today's guest went from being broke, creating one of the top 100 podcasts in the and being recognized by President [00:01:00] under 30 in just a few short years. Having grown up with a learning disability, his older brother go to prison for selling eight ball would be an understatement. But thankfully for any of us who have ever his desire to learn was bigger than his fear learning to use LinkedIn to meet people he He got so good at this that he not only managed on his show, a show which, by the way, now also leveraged it to build his networking business, which he ultimately sold. Leveraging that success, he's now running high performance business coach who advises keynote speaker who has been on stages all His first book, The School of [00:02:00] Greatness, and Details Magazine called him one of the He's been featured on Ellen, the New York major media outlets. At this point, by any metric, he's a teacher principal student. Please, help me in welcoming the former professional athlete whose latest [00:02:30] book, the preconceived notions of what it means to be The dean of the School of Greatness himself, Lewis: What's up, brother? Tom: Welcome. Lewis: King of introductions, as always. Tom: Dude. So, I'm telling you, what you've accomplished the interview scenario is so amazing- Tom: ... that this [00:03:00] interview wrote I mean, literally, all you have to do is quickly that you've managed to rack up. But really, that's impressive, and I know don't do a lot of saying this stuff yourself, It's really impressive. Lewis: Thanks, man. I appreciate it. Thank you. Tom: Well done. Lewis: Thank you. Tom: Yeah, I love it. You start with a vision, and you focus on Lewis: Yeah, I think it's about ... The things I just do them over [00:03:30] and over again, say, &quot;How can I add as much value to your Without asking for anything in return. That's kind of been my mission. When I started out on my sister's couch, she I could help. Eight years later, I'm still doing the same I'm just doing it on a different level. Tom: That's incredible, man. I love that, because it really is the story is such a simple game, but so few people do Lewis: Very few. Tom: So for them to [00:04:00] be able to Being on Ellen was dope. Lewis: Thank you. Tom: That was really neat. Lewis: I feel very grateful, very blessed. It was a dream of mine. I remember having a vision of dancing with sister's couch. Tom: Right. Lewis: And I told her that in the first interview. I was lucky enough to go on twice, and I told just like ... You know. I like to bring things full circle. I like to have a vision or a dream, and then I like to see it come true. Most people, I [00:04:30] feel like if it they're onto something else. Tom: Right. Lewis: I can be as bored out of my mind, doing one thing. I think that's what's helped. Tom: That's awesome, dude. And I'm sure that's what made you great as paying off here. Lewis: Yeah. Tom: And one thing I just want to put a fine you guys are doing behind the scenes, but positioning you as the torch is being passed entrepreneur mentor. I thought that was pretty amazing, so ... Tom: Congratulations for that. Lewis: Things are in the works. It'll be interesting. Tom: That's awesome. Lewis: Yeah, thanks. Tom: Can't wait to see where it goes. Lewis: Yeah. Tom: And then there's the super secret stuff man. Lewis: I know. Yeah, yeah. Tom: Which, when that goes through, and I When that goes through, we will have you back. Lewis: We've do an impact insider. Tom: I like that. Lewis: And we'll talk about it for 20 minutes Tom: I dig that. All right, well, in similar fashion, let's Lewis: Let's do it. Tom: Do [00:05:30] you think people will be Lewis: Absolutely. Everything I do is for a reason, too. You know, I try to constantly do things that and that challenge me. And talking about masculine vulnerability When I was in high school going into college, They all said that I'd be this drunk jock college football. Tom: Whoa. Lewis: [00:06:00] They're like, &quot;You're going And maybe it's part of my ego at the team I didn't have a sip of alcohol all four years Tom: That's amazing. Lewis: Never even felt tempted, because I I was like, &quot;I'm going to be different than I've still never been drunk, because I just Tom: Wow. Lewis: I was in the school musical, I was dance. I try to do different things. Tom: I saw [00:06:30] that. You salsa dance well. Lewis: I've been salsa dancing for almost Tom: Wow. Lewis: Yeah, over a decade. It's a big passion of mine. Tom: That's incredible. Lewis: I just try to learn. Constantly learn things that normally, people never do. Because I feel like there's so much richness I stayed in this athletic jock core group did the same thing and talked the same way, [00:07:00] And I just didn't want to live I wanted to live a life of abundance, of learning, I'm doing things for the greater good or just So this topic was really a self-discovery. Four years ago, I got in a really big fight. I started getting angrier and angrier in my As I was achieving more and more financially, that you mentioned in the beginning. As [00:07:30] those were happening, I would Tom: Wow, that's interesting. Lewis: From simple attacks that people had or in person. In my relationship, I was very triggered, out of shape and hurt in certain situations, at the ... I was playing a lot of pick-up Over a six month period, I was playing a lot [00:08:00] And I was literally, every time Usually it was extreme verbal altercation. Screaming. If anyone ever stepped to me on the pick-up ... Lewis: The means streets of West Hollywood, like an instant alpha reaction of territory, Don't ever try to talk to me in a bad [00:08:30] Let alone, I was doing the same thing to them, Tom: Yeah. Lewis: But for whatever reason, all these I was getting more and more aggressive at then I would take it out on the courts on You know, these kids weren't even that big, Tom: Right. Lewis: And one day, there was a guy who was and we were going at it like two Silverback you know what I mean? And it got down to a really heated moment Tom: Wow. Lewis: ... and it was just like years of built-up strength came up upon me, it was just rage I had zero control. Zero control over my emotions. I allowed my ego, my mask to own me, as opposed the moment. And we got in [00:09:30] a pretty bad fight, up I couldn't believe what I did. The guy's face was mauled, bleeding everywhere, What am I doing? I remember running home in shame and fear. One, because the police station is right across Hollywood, and I was just like, what am I I have everything to lose in this moment. Why am I allowing myself to be so [00:10:00] a simple basketball game, where there is zero No one's watching, there's no money at stake. It's just my ego at stake. And I remember going home, looking in the Lewis? Who are you?&quot; But I was trembling. I was trembling. I was like, &quot;What are you doing and who are And that was the moment where I was like ... I it's time to re-evaluate everything. Every relationship, [00:10:30] the intimate with my family, friends, everything. And the most important relationship, which And I was like, what is my relationship with I wasn't even sure what it was. Was I taking care of myself emotionally? Did I know how to communicate to myself in throughout life's daily challenges or struggles? I didn't have the answers. And for a [00:11:00] guy ... and I know you're seeking for the truth, like in the Matrix. I realized I needed to go find my truth in So it took me down a path of self-discovery, Tom: Wow. Lewis: Going to different therapists and just to take in as much as I could from every expert First, why am I so angry? Reactive? Resentful? [00:11:30] Unforgiving? Passive aggressive? Why? And then how can I move forward so that it And that's when this book research really Tom: Did you already have the notice of they Lewis: No, I thought I was perfect. I thought I had everything figured out. You know, I was making good money, anything I was getting the girls, I [00:12:00] was So for me, everything was like, I know the At that moment. When I think the ego is present, you're unwilling solutions, because you feel like you already So for me, it was really about, okay, first My ego is leading the way. How is this supporting me and how is this Because in some ways, it was benefiting my I was achieving. I was getting recognition. I was [00:12:30] making money. I was in good shape. In other ways, the most important ways, my Was hurting. Was confused. Was depressed, at times. And was always in this conflict. First, for me, it was like, okay, I realize I have a problem. Right? It's that recognition. What can I do next? How can I have the understanding, the tools, that I'm not a slave to my ego, but I am aware with it, and I can let it go? For me it was being aware first, and the second which I didn't think I needed to do. Forgive the things that had happened in my that I went through, all the intimate relationships past pain, [00:13:30] and then again, forgiving for just everything that I did or didn't do letting go of so many things that I'd been And when I held onto these things, and didn't or other people, that's when this energy bottled When men, in general ... When human beings, they can communicate, [00:14:00] internal and outward challenges as well. And that's when I started to realize, wow, life. I've been wearing different types of masks. Some phases of my life, I'm driven to just, girl on the planet. You know, my masculine brain wants to be like, I need to date more girls, or I need to [00:14:30] Right? At one point ... That was my sexual mask. At one point, I was like, &quot;I'm broke, and possible and having all the money in the world, fanciest things.&quot; And I was driven with this material mask, I wore the athlete mask throughout most of I had an aggression mask. I have had a know- [00:15:00] it-all mask, All these different masks that have showed just being able to have a conversation and Because that was my biggest fear, was letting gone through, and the fear of them actually And I think that was my biggest fear, is what flaws? Would they still accept me, would they still be my friend? Because growing up, I didn't have friends. [00:15:30] Like you said, my brother was in And being an eight year old kid in a white many other people that I knew that went to Tom: Right. Lewis: Let alone other siblings of peers that So in the neighborhood, obviously all the older brother that went to prison, and I wasn't Tom: Wow. Lewis: Just by association. So, for years, [00:16:00] I'm essentially Just shooting a basketball, kicking a ball, I can to pass the time. And so, these things just start to I think I'm not talking about just men, but humans When situations occur, it starts to build we want to protect ourselves. And we start to just wear masks. I think that's the challenge. Again- Lewis: Of course, yeah. And also, to [00:16:30] get to the result You know? If we're not happy in a situation, if we're as a 13 year old horny boy- Lewis: ... what am I going to do to get the like I'm worthy as a boy trying to become You know what I mean? We start to fixate on certain things to get I've worn every single mask. I still wear masks, but I'm so much more aware remove ... at least, I try to be quick to So I think that's been key. Tom: One thing that I found really important mentioned it a minute ago, that there are Lewis: Absolutely. Tom: Which is how we end up wearing these Talk to me a little bit about where is that How do we know when to leverage it, how do know when to stop using it, but what awaits Lewis: The first part, when do we know when We know when to use it when it can drive and help create better relationships. If it fuels us into achieving our dreams and much as you want. When should we take it off? When it's hurting yourself and it's hurting If you're wearing it and it's not benefiting you, it's time to take it off. It's time to be aware of a different mask your vulnerable, real self. Again, if you're a young entrepreneur who's going to be very driven to get in the press, certain financial goals, so that you can live do these things. So you're going to be driven pretty much at to get your product out there. Maybe burning some relationships and trying ask for too much promotion from things. If it's hurting relationships and it's hurting If it's not for the betterment of all and time to take it off. But again, I think if you can do it in a way an impact [00:19:00] on people around you, But that usually just means being your authentic Tom: What do you think about masks in terms Because for someone like you, who spends a only did you go see a therapist, like it actually a helpful thing. For a lot of people, it doesn't. They actually don't know what their true self How do they begin to deconstruct and differentiate the athlete [00:19:30] mask for so long in You had a real passion for it. You still do. I mean, you're on the U.S. national handball So it's like there's a point at which it's you're being authentic, and then it spills How do you help people deconstruct that process Lewis: I think it's a lot of self-discovery. It's a lot of ... For me, what worked was When you're wearing a mask, you don't [00:20:00] You want to know that you're right, that your for you. Asking someone, hey, how do I show up for Is there anything I do that just rubs you our relationship? Or do you feel like I'm disconnected in any Tom: How often did you have conversations Lewis: Growing up, not many. But four years ago after this fight, I started life. Tom: Wow. Lewis: Here's [00:20:30] something you start You can either have an open conversation with Ask them to rate you. Whatever works for you. Hey, will you write a list of the things that strengths and my weaknesses? Or, on a scale of one to ten, how open am Am I nine, where I'm pretty open pretty much you ever suggest anything, I push you away? Just start getting feedback from your closest If you have an [00:21:00] audience, you can From your family. Tom: Did you ask your audience? Lewis: I didn't necessarily ask them to grade an open dialogue with my audience. I started sharing and revealing things, I going through, things I was letting go from of having more of a confessional with my audience. This is what's happened to me, this is where I hope you'll stick around. Tom: [00:21:30] Right. Lewis: But I think asking people to write If you can't have an open conversation, if and say, &quot;Hey, I just want to get some feedback. I'm not going to get upset. I want you to speak openly to me, but could really well, five things that you feel like From our relationship, from my relationship Start there. You're going to get so much ... And say, &quot;I Again, it's just one person's opinion. But it's their perception, and perception So I try to get as much feedback as possible I had a one on one conversation with every Tom: Wow. Lewis: I took ownership and apologized for And I revealed all the things that had happened And I started with this question, because to know actually who I was, things that [00:22:30] of, but I started every conversation ... and because I didn't know how to communicate correctly. I said, &quot;Is there anything that I could every So I started every conversation with that. Because I wanted to know that I could be the would still have connection, and that someone Because I think at our core, that's our deepest love from someone. So, for me, I started with my family members. They were all like, &quot;Absolutely not,&quot; especially He was like, &quot;No,&quot; right away. He was like, &quot;Nothing.&quot; You know? It was just such a healing process to say, life and yet, they still don't know certain things about them. When I actually opened up and was vulnerable- Lewis: When I opened up and was vulnerable for 25 years of my life, it was [00:23:30] ever had with my closest relatives, right? And then they opened up in ways that I just So our relationship formed a stronger bond. Our trust and intimacy formed a stronger bond, I was holding onto for years. Tom: Wow. Lewis: Which allowed me to move forward. So I think it's starting with having those If you can't do that, email and ask people you do well, five things that you can do to Some things are going to land, some things that feedback. Tom: What awaits on the other side for the Lewis: Freedom. Tom: From emotions? Lewis: Freedom from anything that's been holding Freedom from judgment of yourself. Forgiveness. Inner peace. The most powerful [00:24:30] feelings in the Now, I'm not saying that you may not slip all these other things. I still have, and work on every month, and But it's a daily practice, to be able to learn Even this morning, I got frustrated with someone, trying to defend myself, and I'm just like, I'm living in this conversation about dropping a mask right now because I'm trying to step I felt like was happening. And when I said, &quot;Okay, I hear you, thank to having to defend myself. People are going to constantly judge us, whether We're going to be judged. Either way. If we sit on a couch all day, our parents Go do something with your life.&quot; If we go chase [00:25:30] after the most audacious to attack us and try to bring us down. So we might as well go do something with our and move on. Some things will land, other things will just to be able to move forward and be discerning group of people that we really trust who can the feedback that is worthy, and then try That's all we can do. Tom: One thing that I really liked about the ... So you go through this is the mask, this have either worn it or avoided wearing it, to achieve. And now, what do we do right ... And, in fact, Lewis: Yeah. Tom: I liked that a lot. [00:26:30] You talked about you have a daily Lewis: Yeah. Tom: What does that look like? And maybe give it just in the context of one frequent for the average person, or more frequent Lewis: Yeah. You know, the structure for me, I was like, simple, that I could read myself and take Otherwise, just writing about theory doesn't Tom: Right. Lewis: So at the end of every chapter, first mask, like a prominent [00:27:00] person. Then I tear myself down of how I've lived So the whole book is essentially putting me vulnerabilities and shortcomings as a man. Then at the end, we break down just practical One of these steps could be getting feedback Emailing five of your closest friends and weaknesses, from their point of view. It doesn't matter if they're right or wrong It's just getting feedback [00:27:30] and I really love journaling. Journaling, for me, is a way to express my would say in general, I think the viewpoint right? And it starts with being able to do it with How did I feel today? When I got mad at this person, what did it How did that person feel after that conversation? Tom: And is that actually [00:28:00] what Those exact words? Lewis: Different things. Different prompts based on different masks. I give different prompts, yeah. But, I mean, for me, it's just a matter of Tom: Total stream of consciousness. Lewis: Yeah. Tom: Not worried about grammar or punctuation, Lewis: Whatever. I mean, I can't spell in the first place. I'm dyslexic. So I'm just scribbling, and I can't even read Tom: And do you prefer that it's handwritten? Do you think there's something more cathartic Lewis: I think writing is powerful. Any way to get it out. Use technology to your advantage. If you want to voice it on a voice memo [00:28:30] Any way to communicate your feelings. No one needs to see this. Start with yourself. I like having these open, honest conversations I was so scared to be vulnerable prior to You know what I mean? I love just being like ... Just asking questions who looks like me, you know what I mean? And just going there. Because why in the heck not? Why be surface [00:29:00] level all the time? Tom: Yeah. Lewis: I think there's a time and a place myself feel as uncomfortable as possible so And the more I do the uncomfortable, it becomes It's journaling, it's asking for feedback, morning, when I meditate, I set my intention. I literally know how powerful my ego is, and a Silverback at any moment. [00:29:30] It's so easy for me to go to that I want to be throughout the day. That's why when I'm meditating, I'm thinking With my girlfriend, what if she gets upset How am I going to respond? If a team meeting doesn't go well, how am If someone misses a deadline, if someone does things. How can I respond? If anything happens, am I going to react to Or am I going to take ownership? I try to get [00:30:00] clear on my intention When I do that, I feel like I'm prepared. I think most people, human in general, aren't therefore they go back into just wearing a When any situation occurs where they feel what feels natural. Tom: That's a really interesting point. I want to dive into that. Why, because I so [00:30:30] intuitively agree comforting? Lewis: It's just what we're used to, and it Tom: Is there structure to the mask? Is there ... The mask tells me I should behave Lewis: I think so. It's a way to protect ourselves, to not reveal And when we reveal who we truly are, we are wrong. Tom: And are the masks, do you think, are notion of what a real man is? Lewis: Yes. Tom: Okay. Lewis: I think through our childhood, growing or father figures, from sports heroes, icons, of the male icons that we've seen growing For me, it was a lot of my coaches. These were the men that taught me through for three hours a day at practice. Also then our peers in the locker room, in Whenever a peer or other boys are telling emotions, don't be ... any type of word we Don't be a little girl, don't be a whatever All you want to do is be accepted in this growing [00:32:00] up. You want to be accepted. And if you stand up to the peers, your group what? I'm going to rise above this and I am going or I am going to not bully the other people I'm not going to laugh at that kid, because But when you get outcast for trying to be year old, 15 year old, from teammates, band to be alone as a kid. [00:32:30] Feeling isolated as a child, from Because that leads to depression, which leads Drugs, alcohol, suicides, prison. I witnessed this first-hand, what it was like I had with myself by feeling alone. Going to the principal's office, and every I would get in trouble, I would say, &quot;I wish I was like, &quot;I have no [00:33:00] friends. Why am I even alive? I wish I were dead.&quot; I remember saying this. Second grade, third grade, fourth grade. So for me, it's like, okay, I need to put I need to be the biggest, fastest, strongest, I need to be able to get a girlfriend, so hang out with me. I need to be able to make money, so that I and dinner. I need to be able to [00:33:30] be driven And I think that's the challenge. It's hard if you're like, I have these morals seven year old boy and screw the world, this I don't care if you don't want to be my friend; We don't think that way growing up. Tom: Sure. Lewis: We want to just feel accepted and loved, And I never felt that way. And so I was driven to be part of my [00:34:00] Now, I grew up very loving and supportive, to try to be even more accepted, because I Tom: Now, you talked about in the book, there school teacher, right? And she did this basically survey, because out and loaded notions of old that don't apply this is. Lewis: It's more [00:34:30] present now than Tom: Walk us through what is ... It was actually I understand exactly what he means, it was Here is the traditional view of what a real Walk us through that. Lewis: Yeah. I think the traditional view is that a real A real man makes a ton of money, because he A real man is able to have any woman he wants. A real man is strong, athletic, physical. And [00:35:00] a real man doesn't back down And there's a number of other in the list, A real man is intelligent, he can take on That's where we get men who are stoic, who Because it was driven into me, day after day, To not show emotion on the football field. Driven into you. Don't show them that they [00:35:30] got to Right? Don't let them see you sweat. Just like the simple things you hear over But when a coach is beating you over the head your face mask, throwing you down, and you're showing emotion, you're not going to do it. Tom: Pretty fast, yeah. Lewis: If you want to play the game and you okay, I'm going to be tough. I just broke my ribs. I'm not going to let anyone know. You just keep playing, you know what I mean? [00:36:00] And so it's just challenging. It's just challenging. Especially with boys in locker rooms of sports know, the locker talk is true. It happens. Unless there's a group of boys that just stand to talk bad about these girls, about these We're not going to bully people. We're going to be supportive.&quot; It's just rare, I feel like. It's just very rare. And you need to have a group of boys who are Who are educated by, [00:36:30] in my opinion, And I was so grateful that I had two older would come back from these dates. My sisters would come back from dates and You know, they would tell me, &quot;This guy was Never do this.&quot; And so I learned early on, oh, you don't treat to be in the world. And so I think I was blessed enough to have with women early on that taught me how to Not women in general, but human beings. Tom: Right. Lewis: All humans. That's what it is. I think it's first, education. And I think women are the most incredible And you know- Lewis: A woman gave me life, you know? I came out of a woman. And for me, it's like I wouldn't be here without Obviously my father was a part of it, too, to give so much love, unconditionally. I feel like women are just more wired that Obviously a lot of men are as well, but I softness, that sweetness. If the world had more of that support, there less conflict, less arguing. Just with that way of being, in general. From [00:38:00] just the love that women bring. I just feel so blessed to have powerful women Tom: That brings me to my next question, which definition of a real man, and is what you Should guys be aspiring to that, where somebody encouragement from men and women? Lewis: I think it's simple. The definition [00:38:30] of masculinity is Being in service to others and to humanity. We've been given so much, just to be on this That's the way I choose to look at life, is Even if I went through so many challenges, I feel like it's my responsibility to leave the world better in any way that I possibly the world. And that's the way I choose to look at it. [00:39:00] A masculine man is someone who Who comes from a place of win-win, of we're who lifts others up around them. Tom: And what do you ... I assume that you important. Lewis: Absolutely. Tom: What should be the basis of self-love? What things? Is it what you were just saying, and it's Lewis: For me, this is just how I work, because I rate [00:39:30] myself at the end of every I rate myself in my health, my relationships, Everything. I just try to give myself a rating from one Tom: Right. Lewis: And I rate myself on my emotional well-being. Where am I at? Am I at a one or a ten today? It's like my health, I rate it. My business, how did we do today in my business? My relationships, with my girlfriend and then My spirituality. Those are the main things that I focus on. Tom: Those are the ones. Lewis: [00:40:00] Yeah. Tom: Okay. Lewis: If I want to rate myself on my creativity ancillary things, but it's usually those four I give myself a scale. Where am I at? Why am I a four? What happened today that made it a four, and I just, again, am aware. I ask myself- two of them are conflicting, like your business can often be a conflict. Lewis: Mm-hmm (affirmative). Tom: [00:40:30] Where do they fall, if you Where would you put them? Lewis: My vision is my main thing in my life, my girlfriend and my friends that my vision But it doesn't mean that everything else is Tom: Sure. Lewis: And that I don't put my friends, my level and give them a ton of time and attention But [00:41:00] for me, I just feel like my And part of that includes my business. Part of that includes my traveling to do work, So it's part of every interaction, as well. I just am constantly evaluating based on those What would make it a 10? What would I need to do?&quot; It's never going to be perfect, but I like Give me feedback. I welcome feedback. How [00:41:30] can I make it better? How can I improve? How can I grow? Because I feel like if we're not getting feedback, We think we're already as smart as we need And I know I'm never the smartest person in feedback. Some things land, some things go right behind But I'm constantly a demand for feedback in You know, in no way am I this expert [00:42:00] I just have broken it down from all the research average day men and women, and transgenders, I interviewed everyone and said, &quot;What does I just wanted to get opinions and feedback, Because my way is not the right way. Tom: Sure. Lewis: And I just want to make it simple and become who they are. How [00:42:30] it's supported them, how it a section at the end of every chapter for in their lives a little bit better, and how get the man to take the mask off without making When a man feels like we're wrong, I'll speak when we feel like we're wrong for who we are, So how can you come from a place of love [00:43:00] challenging to do that, and almost ninja the How do you just come from a place of such I don't need this on anymore. You're not going to leave me. You accept me. You love me. Cool. I don't need it. And that's what it comes down to. Most people don't feel like they're going Tom: Yeah. Actually, really neat, by the way, that you that it was very smart [00:43:30] and telling that weren't going to work like, hey, let going to shut him down. He's going to fucking cling that mask to his Lewis: Yeah. Tom: And I thought that was actually, really, in Silverback grunting mode, that you could that's triggering me and making me want to Lewis: Yeah. I mean, I was writing this book for myself. Because I was like, I need this more than Tom: Right. Lewis: So let me break [00:44:00] it down holding them back from their truest self and And then as I was writing it and researching huh, I bet more women are going to want to in their lives. Their fathers, who have been stoic and showed and mad in any situation. Their boyfriends, their husbands, their sons. I mean, so many moms that I've talked [00:44:30] through to my son.&quot; And it's struggling. They're struggling to just connect- Lewis: ... in a loving way with their son It's like there's so much peer pressure, and up. You didn't either. It's like so much information we're getting how we're supposed to act, or what we want. And so I was like, wow, I really need to make could hopefully understand a little bit [00:45:00] why they act, and the steps on how to get and love as opposed to ego, anger, frustration. So we'll see. I hope people like it. Tom: It makes a lot of sense. Lewis: I hope it's helpful. Tom: And I was going to say, people are going Lewis: Yeah, that's the goal. Tom: The insights are incredible, and the in the book, you directly quote, interview, that Dale Dye and Randy Couture, both who essentially be saying the same thing. Lewis: Yeah. Tom: They're so archetypal of the alpha male, Lewis: Exactly. Tom: That was really interesting. And then obviously you've collected a lot of doing the show, which is one of the fantasies people, and then some subset of them actually doing a podcast- Tom: ... will ever give you. [00:46:00] But all of those people that you've in the way that you write about them, you of their life that we otherwise wouldn't get Guaranteed, people are going to like the book, Incredibly usable, awesome insights. Do you worry that some of the book will be Lewis: I know it will be, 100%. My intention was to be as politically correct, [00:46:30] But, I mean, just putting out articles happening right now, it's just like the amount just blown away of how the anger that men There's a lot of right and wrong happening. And my mission if for people to not come from what causes a lot of conflict. Tom: Sure. Lewis: [00:47:00] That's what causes- What works. Lewis: What works. And if you have an opinion and you just shout and this is the way it should be,&quot; most people speaking to the choir. Yes, you're going to rally the troops who But if you want to make real change, listen The reason why I believe the Democrats didn't to listen. Now, I'm not saying there's one party right It's not even about that. For me, it's just be open to listening to point of view, and see where they're coming I believe the greatest leaders in the world coming from and can connect and communicate person to connect and communicate on the leader's Tom: Very fair. Lewis: And when they can connect to someone when you can create change, in my opinion. That's when you can come together. That's when you can have some meaningful conversation to working apart. And that's where I think as men and human how to be an effective leader in life. A leader with our families, with our communities, And if we don't understand [00:48:30] how the thing that you do extremely well is you Tom: Thank you. Lewis: You listen to your team. You receive feedback. Maybe you don't agree with it all, but you real change, creating impact, getting people where they're coming from as opposed to expecting where you're coming from. Tom: The last time that we were together in which is, &quot;What are your three truths?&quot; Lewis: Yes. Tom: And you said, &quot;Oh, it's always hard for which I love, so I want to ask it again to Because I feel like since I asked you this Lewis: Yeah. Tom: So it'll be really interesting to see. Lewis: Okay. Since I'm not prepared, this is the first Tom: Even better. Lewis: Yeah. The first [00:49:30] thing is ... The first Gosh, I just feel like what's the point of And if we're not in pursuit? I don't care if I ever achieve my dream, but where I learn the most, that's where I have and adventure and travel and connect with my dreams. Number one. Number two would be [00:50:00] to take care We have one body that I'm aware of, with the And it's the only one we get. Make sure we're taking care of it to the highest I'm talking about our mental health, emotional That includes being grateful. All these other things that help you live Because without health, we won't have the And the third thing is to live in service We entered this world for some reason. Most of us will never be able to fully understand Maybe we think we know, but who knows if it's We're here for a reason. [00:51:00] For us to ... It's a big playground, live a life of service to so many thousands to where we're at before us, then I feel like So follow your dreams, master your health, Tom: I dig them. Those are three damn good answers. All right. [00:51:30] Where can these guys find you online? Lewis: Check me out, lewishowes.com. @LewisHowes anywhere on social media, and Tom: Nice. And, last but not least, what impact do you Lewis: I want to make sure that people feel my interactions, or my content in any form them tools to help them pursue their dreams, world. Tom: I love it. Lewis, thank you so much for coming on the Lewis: [inaudible 00:52:12] All right, guys. I think that we should all have a collective the School of Greatness book, which crushed But I'm telling you, as somebody that's read There is a lot of really awesome [00:52:30] reflect on yourself and figure out when you're honest. There are times that it actually does serve Where is the moment where it serves me, where mask and it's no longer how I actually feel, myself to the world, but I'm living up to back. Finding that line is really, in his words, fulfillment, and, most importantly, [00:53:00] the incredible relationship that I know everybody Whether that's with a best friend, whether a spouse. Being able to really show up, display vulnerability, survive the natural ups and downs of the moments be the right move. Really incredible, and just love, love, love on the U.S. national handball team, former the guy that's bringing this to the world and the not needing to be the trap that we infinitely more complicated, whether men or that we believe we're being forced to wear, at any time, which is why I picked this shirt So, get your asses out of the Matrix by reading of some of the things that hold you back. All right, this is a weekly show, so if you And until next time, my friends, be legendary. Take care. Crowd: Yeah! Tom: Lewis. Lewis: Appreciate it, man. Take care. Tom: [inaudible 00:54:13] you haven't already, be sure to subscribe up for our newsletter. All of that stuff helps us get even more amazing to build this community, which at the end So thank you [00:54:30] guys so much for being