- Have you ever wondered - Not really, I usually eat them. - How about gum, or ice cream, or planes, or log cabins, or literally anything? Well, in this video, we're starting with ice cream. - Look at that. It just grabs them and just... Robots are taking everything - I love how everything's automated except for that one hand. - That one process of moving it. - That's ice cream. This is frozen pizzas. - This is like if you want a DiGiorno. This is how it gets to you. - Oh, and then they just - It just rolls across it. - Eh. I mean, I like a lot of and that looks like not that much. - That was a lot of cheese Oh, so they have to manually Okay, that's why they're - And then they just freeze them. Domino's is better. - Pieces of meat leftover from cutting steaks or pork chops. - Oh, this is how hot dogs are made. - Ugh. But you're telling me that's hot dog? - It look like poo-poo. You can't tell me that's not poop. Yo, the glizzies are taking a bath. It just... Just sucks them up. - This factory manufactures 300,000 hot dogs an hour. - 300,000 glizzies an hour. - Wait, that means it can do 720,000 glizzies a day. - That's a lot. Bubble gum! - It all starts with a gum base made of plastics and rubbers. - Gum is made from plastic and rubber? - I've been swallowing for the last ever. I've been swallowing plastic? Is that all gum or is it just this gum? I'm sure the editor will fact-check it. Oh, and then they just dump paint in it. This officially has made me - Now, we're gonna move - Oh, this is how money's made? I thought you just react - No, Chris, that's how we make money. - Yay! Yo, that's crazy. That runs our entire country World's first 3D-printed house. That's so cool. Can I get one of these in my backyard? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let's just make more of these videos. - All right. Also, they're using concrete which is very flammable. Speaking of that, here's a - That's cute. - That's cute. - It is. I bet he's building - Their little home there, little family. - Dude, just listen to this music. It's so just sombering. Here, replace the music with heavy metal. - Yeah, I'm a cabin builder. - Why aren't you this cool? - Yeah, I ask myself that every day. - Now you know how ice here's chocolate bunnies. - I feel like everybody and that's literally it. - I feel like no one buys these. - I feel like that's - It's okay if you buy that one. - Yeah, if you buy the - Like, imagine... Imagine something like Hershey's and then people are like, I want that 'cause it's - I want bunny chocolate. - Making a Tesla truck. - Wait, didn't Elon Musk already do that? - Obviously, this isn't This is someone making a replica. - It looks freaking amazing. - Wow, that's actually really good. - Comment which you'd rather which is real and they're or the makeshift Tesla truck? - Kinda like the makeshift. - I do too. - How Vans makes its iconic sneakers. - Hey. hot dogs are made of. - What if that was true? - The ingredients for - If you didn't know, they just press it together really hard. - Now, have you ever gone and they had a pool? And have you ever wondered in the earth was created? - Yes. - Here you go. they dig the hole and that hits it, and then - I know. I'm also shocked. Dang. - That is a nice pool. - Sinkhole in Japan fixed in seven days. - What? They're gonna fix this in seven days. That's an entire, like, Hey, look at that. Ready to go. - Oh, imagine being the This has to be terrifying. Inside an Amazon warehouse. - Amazon's modern fulfillment centers are largely patrolled by an army of squat Roomba-like robots. - Roomba army. - Can I buy one of those? Tucker likes to ride on our But I guarantee you, one They go three miles per hour. Whoa, slow down there, speedy. - We talk about robot invasions and how that's how we're gonna all die. - Yeah. - But what if the robot invasion's actually the Roomba invasion? What if the Amazon rebel against the humans and - Slowly run us over at - They go under the and then they just drive Inside the Hostess factory. - Hostess has been making since I was a baby boy. - Yeah, I like these. But I'll be honest, if less of the icing on top, - Shut your mouth. More. Double it up. - And if this wasn't cool enough, I don't know how I'm segueing click that Subscribe button right now. - Do it. - We're close again on our on this channel. Seriously, it would mean the world to us if you hit Subscribe, so we could get closer to that milestone. - Do it or else. - How planes are made. You know what's scary? When a plane is first for the first time? - Somebody that has balls of steel. - It just literally, have just been working on a plane for, we'll say like half a year straight, and if, like, one guy just screws up and the entire, like- Randy walks in, he's like, &quot;Guys, I found a bolt in my jacket.&quot; as the plane's taking off. - Then the plane just starts going down. - It's all Randy's fault. Building LEGOs, whoo. Yo, this is me when I and just build an entire LEGO community. - So this morning, I asked Maddy if she wanted to build LEGOs And then I asked if she if they were pink and she said yes. - You can buy just an - Perfect, and then we Sounds like a perfect date. Maddy, text me when you see this. - What do you mean you haven't seen this? - Cruise ship engine. - Whoa, that thing was huge. - Wait, they're building the - It, like, lifts the parts and then lowers 'em where they need to go. And now, they're taking where they keep on building it. They move it in section. Remember that kid who always This is what he's up to. - How chocolate is made. I don't wanna spoil things I might be launching my own chocolate bar. I can't really say So I already know how chocolate's made. It's very obvious because... Anyways. - It's gonna be good. Beans! I wanna lick that spoon. Let me lick that spoon. - Now imagine that but 30 times better. That'll be my chocolate bar I won't be able to So there you go. - Exclusive on the &quot;Reacts&quot; channel. - How Blizzards are made. This could either mean like or like a Blizzard at a restaurant. It is food Blizzard, not Yo, I have a story to tell. Last night at 3:00 AM, it's closed. We pull up to another McDonald's. It's closed. - We pull up to another McDonald's. - Closed. No, it's open. And all I wanted was an Oreo McFlurry and the ice cream machine was broke. - It was not. - It was. - I swear to God it was broke. - The ice cream machine was broke. I drove to three McDonald's and I didn't get my McFlurry. - If MrBeast can get hit with anyone can. - No, I don't even wanna watch McDonald's, screw you. Go order at Beast Burger because our ice cream 'cause we don't sell ice cream. - Yeah, we can't let you down. - Did you just punch the light? - I punched the light. - This is the ship from &quot;Star Wars,&quot; okay? And this man built it in real life. - We should get together - It's hard enough to play a board game at my house. - It looks so real. That's so crazy. - Does it hover? - It was on wheels. Building a tree house. Oh, this is an adult tree house. - Oh. - Why was there a sandwich? of the time-lapse, they're - No, that's actually one of the steps. You have to make a sandwich. - To build a tree house, apparently, you gotta stop and make a sammie. - I love this. It, like, doesn't cut out the - Yeah, but you're putting a - Yo, those trees have been they'll be there for 100 more. - And now... - The piece de resistance. - Gummy bears! - Gummy worms! - Oh. - The gummy mixture never touches a mold. Instead, it goes into this white stuff. - Play it again. - White stuff. - 10 more times. - White stuff. - Couple more, couple more. - White stuff. - Goes into the white stuff, that's good. Oh, my God. I want to eat those straight Okay, what's the best flavor? - Blue's the best, then then red, then orange. - Okay, I'm a blue and and then a pink and yellow. Every now and again, you'll - I can agree for once. And can we also agree that - They should.