Did you hear that the Sahara Desert has That's what we'll review in this so you can improve all areas of your English. You'll improve your vocabulary, Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. Our headline, The Sahara Desert Have you seen these images online? First, let's look at the grammar here. What verb tense is this? The Sahara desert flooded. It's the past. Simple, right? But notice we have for the first time in decades. What does this tell you grammatically To me it sounds that we need Now in headlines they generally omit auxiliary So although you see flooded, it is possible that the writer used the present perfect The Sahara desert has flooded, so As you can see, it's complete, but So has flooded for the first time in decades. How long is in decades? If you had to say a specific number Well, it would be a minimum of 20 years, 1 decade is 10 years. So if we have a plural on this, But we also use this for more, so In a longer full sentence, you might make Don't forget the because it's First, of course, is written as This is the first time. And then you can have whatever action For example, I've studied English and then time reference in hours, minutes, seconds, Now hopefully you don't say this is the but even if you do, at least you're here now. So this is a very common sentence structure in Notice you have an S on all the time Don't worry about taking these notes because You can find the link in the description. Now, maybe it has been a while since you So put let's go, let's go in the comments. If you're excited, you're ready to learn. Put Let's go in the comments Striking images from the Sahara Desert show Let's take a look at striking as This is one that attracts a lot of attention. It could be because it's but either way it attracts a lot of attention. Now let's look at etched into so something, the large links are edged into something So this means carved, engraved or marked deeply. So in this case, it means the water. If the water is etched into the sand dunes, it means the water is there very deeply and Now we use this expression etched into you to say that your initials or your But we also use this for a memory. You could say the striking images of which means they're there permanently. So we use this if something You could use this for a very vivid or positive or negative, that is Let's continue after one of the most So this describes the Sahara Desert, arid and So here again, this in decades. How long is this now? You know it's a minimum of 20 years. Exactly two adjectives Arid, Extremely dry. You would describe it as arid. The desert is arid now. Barren means unable to produce life. Now obviously life is produced but it says one of the most arid, the most barren. So it doesn't mean there is zero life, but it is the least amount of life is possible because of And another thing, notice this verb hit. But remember, this is an irregular verb. All three conjugations are hit. So the base verb hit, the past simple Let's continue. The Sahara does experience rain. What do you notice about this part? Grammatically, the Sahara does experience rain. Well, this is in the present simple verb tense. And as you know, you just need your it with the subject the Sahara is it You don't need the auxiliary So because this isn't required, This is called the emphatic do. You can use it to emphasize the fact and barren place in the world, It sounds stronger than simply saying remember as the normal present simple, you But here, because you're using the in this case ES to do, and then The Sahara does experience rain. It emphasizes the fact, but remember Is just a way to add more The Sahara does experience rain, but usually just So you can say all year per year or every You can say I study English once a week, So those are the three options available. Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where the movies, YouTube, and the news. So you can improve your listening vocabulary with natural expressions, Plus, you'll have me as your personal coach. You can look in the description or you can go to my website and Now let's continue with our So notice we use the preposition over over two days in September So you could say I studied and it sounds like the entirety of I studied English over the weekend. So over two days in September, however, intense rain fell in parts of Now notice here they're using. However, this is to show a contrast. The contrast is the fact that and September could be considered late summer. So they're using this to say, although we just So this, however, is used to show that However, intense rain fell in parts of the desert in southeast Morocco after a low pressure And here instead of saying pushed across, you could simply say moved This is a weather event that can A low pressure system pushed But these alternatives exist because they add they This is a strong term because when you push where and then in this case you have intense So adding these words can really more vivid image to help etch this into your mind. Let's continue preliminary NASA satellite data. OK. Preliminary means that it's the So this is commonly used with research, analysis, debates, ideas, decisions. So it's the first one, but it suggests then the the information or So this is the first piece of data that they have. And this preliminary data showed nearly 8 So because it's preliminary, it means could increase when they do further analysis. One desert city in southeast Morocco most of it across just two days last month. In this case, you could also Remember we talked about over being the You could use a cross to Sometimes they're not interchangeable though. In terms of rain, we often talk about across a country even, and that It doesn't necessarily have to be it just means across a country. So it rained across Morocco So in this case you wouldn't It's the wrong word choice. We use across to mean one side to could use over or across and it would have That's more than four times the normal Notice this grammar here. I see a lot of mistakes with The is required the whole case September because that's the You could also say all of September, front of it for all of September, Both are correct, but the grammar is different and equates to more than half a Now you could absolutely say equates to Instead you could simply say equals. But if you use equals, there's No 2. So notice equals replaces equates and the represents again, no preposition represents more So for this specific 1, you So when you are learning is really important that you Specifically any auxiliary verbs It's been 30 to 50 years In such a short space of time. You can say space of time, a short space of time. It's very common, perhaps more common to use span. I'm sure you've heard lifespan, a short span of time, which A short period of time period. So span, space. All alternatives. I would say span is probably the most common. Now, this made me think of a common unseasonably, which is your adverb. And then you can have whatever adjective you want. So you can say it's been unseasonably wet. This means more than normal for that time of year. This should be just of year for that time of year. So right now, if it is late summer like it is If it's winter, if it's January, if it's summer, spring, whatever time of year it So it's been unseasonably wet. It's been more wet than normal, rainy, snowy, whatever specific expression So that's a great one to have in your vocabulary As the rain flowed over the desert terrain, it created a new watery And scrubby flora amid means in the middle of I didn't know what scrubby flora Scrubby and I love plants, Maybe you'll never use this in your vocabulary, So if this is the ground, maybe it I don't know how high or how low it but let's just say low growing. Growing low to the ground is scrubby. Plant life. That's an interesting adjective. New one for me in desert Four by fours. So notice you say this times You don't say 4 * 4 in math. If this were a mathematics equation, you would represent this as times Can you do mental math? 4 by 4, So 4 * 4 in math. But in this case, this isn't a math equation. Thankfully not a math teacher. So 4x4. This represents by 4 by 4. Do you know what A four by four? Well, this might give you a clue. Motored through? Motored through puddles. Maybe this tells you that it's a vehicle. A4 by 4 is a vehicle that has four wheel Personally, I generally think of SU VS or don't know that much about vehicles and cars, so So 4 by fours motored through the puddles So in awe. Imagine you're in this Jeep and you're motoring splashing everywhere, everywhere, but this is So that would be in awe. That's literally the image that you would have. So an image like that would be Let's continue the bounty of rainfall. Bounty sounds like a large amount And in all three cases, you need this of something large amount of bounty So likely means it's possible but not guaranteed. So maybe 80% will happen, but there's I'll likely go to the party still 20% I'll stay home and watch Netflix. So I'll likely go to the party isn't guaranteed. The bounty of rainfall will likely help refill the large under large groundwater So this is just the the area that So the water from the ground aquifers beneath the desert that are relied upon to The region's damned reservoirs So reservoir would again be an When you add re in front of the So if the reservoir is empty, you need glass is empty and you're at a restaurant, Would you like more water? Because I already filled your glass once, so I'm asking if you want me to fill And they'll ask that for any beverage, Would you like a refill? Our last sentence. However, it's unclear how far September's So alleviating means making the drought If you have a headache, you would take some sort to make them less strong, to reduce And notice again, we're using this word, however, they just talked about getting a large amount of But then they're saying that they're not sure. It's unclear if it will alleviate drought, if So this, however, introduces a contrasting idea. Let's take these two contrasting ideas. I love learning English with the news. Do you, do you love learning English Now hopefully you're thinking So put yes, yes, yes. If you do. I love learning English with the news. I haven't subscribed to Jennifer's channel. So this is a contrast, but right now I don't understand really So to show that connection, And because it's a contrasting idea, we can and then your idea to show the connection. I love learning English with the news, However, Well, change. Just subscribe like this lesson, because then And I post lots of Learn So that's the end of this article. So what I'll do is I'll read the and this time you can focus on my pronunciation. The Sahara Desert flooded for Striking images from the Sahara Desert show after one of the most arid, barren places in the The Sahara Duns experience rain, but usually just Over 2 days in September, however, intense Morocco after a low pressure system Preliminary Nassau satellite data showed nearly 1 desert city in southeast Morocco most of it across just two days last month. That's more than four times the month of September and equates to more It's been 30 to 50 years since we had this As the rain flowed over the desert terrain, palm trees and scrubby flora in desert 4 by fours motored through the puddles The bounty of rainfall will likely aquifers beneath the desert that are relied The region's damned reservoirs reported However, it's unclear how far September's So do you want me to make more lessons If you do, put yes, yes, yes, put And of course, make sure you like this lesson, share it with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And you can keep improving your