If you're a long-term viewer of the channel then which I've attempted to decipher the latest bottom of our planet, all the way down there When I first started talking about climate generally regarded as the rock-solid big brother interesting climatic carnage was taking place. climatologists appear to have been growing in the waters approaching, surrounding and I think I must have seen more research during the last twelve months or so than And the general consensus seems to be So, do we simply keep watching, Nero-like, water starts to give way at a terrifyingly on and start coming up with possible Well, there's an international scientific debate and most experienced researchers move urgently towards option Hello and welcome to Just Have a Think I just mentioned. It's an awful lot of Many of the papers are focussed also known as the Doomsday Glacier. I've talked but nevertheless it never hurts to have Antarctica may look like one big blob of it's actually two quite distinct entities. The bedrock. At some points the ice sheet is almost stable for a very long time indeed - some of By stark contrast West Antarctica is a series That means the ice sheet over here is perched And it's in this part of the continent that we including Thwaites glacier, which is roughly If we go back three years to a video I made we're reminded that those researchers had line of the glacier, which is the bit where its and there was speculation that one day in the may disappear completely. The consequence of that would engulf coastline communities comprising And because Thwaites Glacier and other similar once they go, there's not really anything to starting to gradually slip into the water on a human scale, but it would be lightning fast would be more like five metres of sea level rise. world's richest and most heavily populated cities, and Tokyo, not to mention swamping places like livelihoods of tens of millions of people. wouldn't it? months, we've learnt that global ocean surface scientists described as "off the charts". Those Antarctic region causing all sorts of disruption to be absolutely sure what's causing it. The will undoubtedly have played some role, but it is account for all of the temperature increase. Which And that can't be good, can it? Debate that I mentioned earlier then. the Spring and Summer of twenty-twenty-four that In May, a group of researchers from the University Waterloo deployed high-resolution satellite data from the region. Their published paper water erosion phenomenon that we just looked likely accelerate the destabilization catastrophic loss of ice that would follow. of boffins, this time from Dartmouth College and paper which challenged the so-called Marine The general thrust of the MICI argument is high ice cliffs, which by their very nature then that represents yet another potential the accelerating carnage. But the data that the UK thinning of the Doomsday Glacier might actually So why is that then? explain that they ran computer models of various each version. In one model they focussed on which is that thing we looked at earlier, and exposing one of those ice cliffs. What the model in velocity actually reduced the calving rate, front of the glacier. And it was that reduction in with the conclusion that the whole thing is much model projections should be re-evaluated. lead ordinary folks like you and me to wonder when minds up so we can crack on with addressing current ongoing debate about possible solutions. to force the system in a different direction must you're someone who keeps up with climate science is considered by many to be tantamount to to be firstly that any such intervention that we apparently can't even give an accurate right under our noses, it's entirely likely that interventionist actions will be similarly or objection is that any geoengineering to slow down warming in our atmosphere or slow can only really represent a metaphorical sticking to spread regardless. It might make the patient but in the long term it offers absolutely nothing malaise. Opponents of geoengineering towards those sorts of short-term placatory diverted from addressing the real issue at hand. well past the point where slowing down annual bring atmospheric and oceanic warming back within and that our only available option now is radical damage we've done, because, in their view, they argue, so we've got nothing One of the biggest challenges in is just the sheer scale of our various planetary the size of a planet. How do we, for example moving from north to south towards a landmass One idea is to construct an eighty-kilometre curtain to protect the West Antarctic Now I try very hard not to offer scathing and I am certainly not a qualified oceanographer, spotted it's tendency to flow past things on its relentless journey to a destination. of who builds the thing (assuming it's even and maintain it if it ever did get built. None So, you'll have to forgive me for suggesting Here's another one. onto the surface of the ice and convert it into in ice mass would theoretically stabilize ice Did I mention that Antarctica was almost So, how much infrastructure would be required to produce it and ship it to site. And what I don't know. And to the best of OK, so maybe we send lots of remotely operated floor where they will construct three-hundred material not previously known to humankind, that overcoming the planetary scale forces of nature them in place and solving the problem for good. physics of a continent sized ice sheet versus bollards, because I suspect you can work that did somehow stack up then it's worth one of the harshest environments on Earth, minus sixty degrees Celsius and wind speeds that perpetually dark for 6 months of each year, which means the logistical challenges of simply let alone transporting material and maintaining a our unintended consequences again, don't we? Like Perhaps a quick and easy fix would simply like silica beads all over the ice reduce heat absorption and slow down the melting... This one was first proposed for the Artic but why not give it go down here as well? beads available to us and can find some way successfully, which...you know...but assuming it then that'd mean we have a continent something that NATURE has tried before is it? out, even among geoengineering advocates, there is interviewed John Moore from the Artic Centre at "It will take 15 to 30 years to recommend or rule out any interventions." So, the debate rumbles on, and in the emissions continue to increase year existential peril we're plunging ourselves You'll no doubt have seen the almost latest COP climate summit held recently in normally cover these events, but I whole grotesque circus was an utterly Anyway, I won't go on because I'll start ranting already are. But honestly, unless we properly divert at least a trillion dollars EVERY year energy systems and protect their citizens from then we have only a very slim chance grandkids and their descendants. You'll have your own views of course, and is in the comments section below. But that's folks who make this channel possible via and who allow me to make independent content messages. Don't forget to jump over to Patreon out how you can join them and have a look at including free membership. And if you found this me by hitting the subscribe button on YouTube and a penny to do that and it's just a simple click Most important of all though, thanks very much and remember to just have a think.