Hi, Dr Bernard here. I recently published a video on Chubbyemu lethal dose of caffeine. Link is in the description below. That is a de-identified case from a colleague that accident, was really familiar to me. When the idea of mixing supplements came up, brought me back to an earlier time in my life In fact, some of my close friends immediately When I was in college I used to buy supplements powder. The more you bought the cheaper it was per We're talking like $2 or $3 per pound, back the money I made working minimum wage at target. It used to come in these big plastic bags What you would do is you would mix a blend And then you add in your own flavoring. But then I started getting into things like Or something else called beta alanine. There was a time when waxy maize was really supposedly absorb into your body really quick. I think it was pre or peri workout. To be honest, I dont remember any of those Sometimes what would happen is that I would I didn't label things properly. But when it came to amino acids there was The leucine would float to the top, it kinda knew it was a powder because it was grainy. And all 3 of the aminos together would stick it down with even more water. And then now you feel bloated. Beta alanine also had its own taste. It was kind of like fish, and it would make with Cookie Dough flavored protein powder Except for the times when I would mistake together. And I remember when those times happened because And everything had already been mixed at that for the next couple weeks. That's where the patient in the caffeine video what he did-- mistake amino acids with caffeine, Typically you take 5 grams amino acids. 5 grams of caffeine however, is more than This is all the pretext for my own caffeine I'm gonna say I was pretty surprised that however he wanted to do it. In general, maybe it could pass for a pre-workout, not a great one when it comes to giving you in so many regular drinks, you really shouldn't effect from it, but how exactly do you get Caffeine is a methylxanthine. It's a stimulant natural product derived So when we look at the chemical structure, For our purposes here, adenosine is an inhibitory Some natural chemicals are heavily conserved, it's also used in RNA. The ubiquity of it in humans, and other mammals, similar in shape, it's going to have activity. All of this gives us some context as to what even cause a withdrawal effect in the first confirmation to even exist in the first place. So if we know that caffeine is a stimulant, neurotransmitter, then we can deduce that adenosine. That is, caffeine blocks neuroinhibition, When allowed to work properly, adenosine slows You want that in times when a patient's that it's not contracting in a way that If caffeine is there to block adenosine, meaning the heart, then the result is that the heart Increasing adenosine also increases a person's So blocking adenosine via caffeine would disturb to caffeine consumption, that topic in particular It goes so far as to people saying that our impacted by caffeine, because it causes one Adenosine also helps keep blood vessels at causes vasoconstriction. Keep in mind, all of this is talking about the 400 milligram daily limit. When we come to overdose, like in the Chubbyemu So again, right now we are not talking about So just by this mechanism of how caffeine is that it is a molecule where if the nervous so to say, then we can interpret that a couple If in the case the figurative vehicle that and concentration, aren't really moving allowing the brakes to be engaged, means you There's no indication of speed, you could you dont want to. So while we know caffeine as a stimulant, doses as some other things that are used to just not lawful in the United States. In other words, we can say that caffeine doesnt release in key parts of the brain, rather adenosine. Biological systems tend to adapt to the conditions So if the body needs adenosine for normal caffeine, present that is blocking the function will want to respond by creating more adenosine signal from some adenosine. So in order to get the same effect from that of it, because the brain has created more Sometimes, people will overshoot it, and then the body to then adapt again and create even Now, you have a situation where there are if you dont have some caffeine present every of adenosine. This is what we call dependency, and many a similar mechanism in the body. You've build up to a point where you are If you don't have it, you get symptoms of There's a pain and discomfort associated, some of that substance to not feel that discomfort. And that's how the withdrawal mechanism All of this bringing me to my own experience I've had this a lot of different times in when I experience it, I don't necessarily When 2020 happened, I definitely got myself finally brew it at home for breakfast. Actually, it came out of the 2 gallons coffee I bought the coffee maker as a prop and then I remember I measured it out to be somewhere This wasn't first time into it, there was in my life, energy drinks. I still have the coffee maker, but I dont back then. Here's how it went down. In May 2021, I was brought on by my friend who was advocating for VA policy on those deployed overseas. That's exposure to burning garbage to everyone That video is published as A Soldier Was Exposed Organs on Chubbyemu. What was really cool about that project was agreed to let us borrow cinema lenses for well as do some lens tests. So on the day of, we got to location, Rest passed away almost a year after this shoot. We got there mid morning, like 10am. I hadn't had any coffee or caffeine, but The shoot lasted until around 8pm. And basically, any time I have been consuming containing it after 2pm. So when we finished the shoot, no caffeine And the next day, I could feel it. It started with a hangover like headache the I was tasked with returning the lenses since in the first place. On the drive there, the headache kept getting or the kind of headache I get when I dont Before arriving to DC Camera, I had to stop going to puke. I've seen a lot of time in my videos, about and saliva rushes under their tongue as they before. And that was exactly what was happening to gripping the sides of the sink and I can feel normally do. It felt like there was an earthquake in my struggle to just not empty my stomach into All during this time, there were shoppers at me like, "what the heck is this guy doing." All this time, I had no idea that this was I hadn't had that kind of headache for a and because stay at home was such a thing intake. What I didnt have, was the coffee I normally The symptoms were severe headache that kept ended in nausea. The reason how I know it was caffeine withdrawal of Mountain Dew, chugged them, and within an hour. Chugging them in the first place was pretty "hangover headache" knows when you put you feel like it's going to come right back Given the pretext, we have a decent idea of I did have a caffeine tolerance, from that You suddenly take it away, like not having a video, but other reasons can vary, and now created in response to this inhibition, are in the absence of caffeine because the body Do you remember that point that caffeine causes Well, if caffeine isn't there to do that flows into the brain than what one would be Actually, if there is more adenosine than just simply more blood than normal flowing There could have also been another mechanism there, including adenosine, mediate emesis. That's what would have caused actual vomiting was successful in doing so. But that sour taste and the flood under my conducted there. You don't get that much saliva collecting And with the administration of caffeine, which and quickly absorbed from the gut, the normal kicked in, and I'm guessing there wasn't symptoms alleviated quickly. That's how it happened for me. There's other reports of caffeine withdrawals I didn't have that, but for each person, those symptoms, or maybe something different. Now if you're wondering what you do to not to a point where you're not consuming any And you do that by slowly weaning off it. Like I said, while it builds a dependency addictive like other stimulants, because it's stimulation at normal amounts. So suppose you drink 6 cans of caffeineated Move down to 5 for a couple days, then to By then, you might feel a low grade headache, Then move down to 3, then 2. And then up to you if you wanna keep going. In my life, having some caffeine is fine. Too much, and I can't sleep well, which the day. In my entire life, too much caffeine mostly there's a lot of breaks in speech, a lot say what I want to in regular conversation. And that all results from caffeine causing So it's worth checking out a life with a Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself and be well. Take care of yourself and be well.