Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today I want to show you how you can use Audacity. It's free, it's open source, and it works on all If you want to jump around this video, To help you understand how Audacity works, I'm for the Kevin Cookie Company. I'll record You can follow along if you'd like. you'll have comprehensive knowledge of how you All right, let's jump on the PC and let's To download Audacity, head to I've also included a link in the description you land on the homepage, you'll see a prominent This will drop you on the download page. It'll automatically determine and here it'll kick off a download of the EXE. Once it finishes downloading, click on the Once you finish downloading and installing drop you into a brand-new project and We have a whole bunch of We also have all of these different buttons what you can do with some of these. Before we start recording some audio or before first we need to configure a Down in the bottom left-hand corner, you'll also referred to as the sample rate. When you entire audio wave. Instead, you're So, what do I mean by that? Well, it's the same idea when you have a video Typically, you'll film it, let's say 24 frames you take all of those different frames, they're together, that creates the illusion of motion, We're just taking little samples of the sound. The but we call it sample rate for sound. the more accurate it is, and the same holds the more accurate the sound will be. You took more samples, and it more closely However, as you go higher up, the and also, most people ears can't That's why when you buy, the sample rate will be 44,100, and so And when you go higher than that, you Usually when you select the sample rate for your way up to 96,000, and that'll give you very good as the project rate or my sample rate. Now that up into the top left-hand corner, and This contains all of the different audio You have one that's called MME. This is the oldest This also has the greatest level of compatibility. Direct Sound and then you have the most This one also tends to have For now, I'm just going to leave it to the you can select your microphone that When I click on this, you can choose If you have more microphones on your computer, you have an external microphone. Go through this list To the right of the microphone, you can also select whether you Most microphones are simply mono, so However, with stereo you get both a left have an instrument, or something hooked up You can then record in stereo. For this, I'm just using a standard And to the right of this, we have the last Once we record some audio, what do For example, you might have Here I have a monitor that also has speakers, so I could select what device I I'm going to leave it set to my speakers. Now that next we want to make sure that the If we look right up here near the top, you'll see this recording level and When I click on here, it'll so here I can see my input volume or levels. Now you might be wondering, well, Right now, as I'm speaking, you'll see so this was the highest Now I don't want to go right When that happens, my sound gets clipped off wave. You don't want that to happen, so in general Now if you notice that maybe you're too low on the right and it's going into the red, you can volume, and here if I move it all the way over Now the microphone that I'm using today so that's why it's not spiking However, if you notice it's spiking, either adjust sure you're not hitting all the way over on the I can click on this and I can pull it out, so interface wherever I want, and right now you Here I can click in the bottom right-hand corner, and here I could adjust it so it's in a vertical So, depending on how you want you can adjust and configure this Now I prefer to just leave it in the on the top menu. I'll go down to toolbars So here you'll see that my monitoring Now that my levels are in a good state, I mentioned that when the audio goes too far over it clips the sound that you're recording. And Over here, on the left-hand side, I'm This is now recording me speaking, and It's basically over here. and the vertical here is the loudness of my voice. Now if I turn my microphone look at that. Here you'll see that you notice that the wave is just getting cut So once again, setting your levels at And speaking of good practices, it's also good going to sit down and record an interview, or Maybe it's an hour-long class. Take a sample recording just to make The last thing you want to do is only to realize that you That's the last thing you want. out of the way, I'm ready to start recording Here I'm going to go over and delete I'll click on this X icon, right here. Just like I did in the test, I can go right I'll click on here to start the I'll click on the stop icon right here. Now, as a good practice, don't start speaking Just wait a moment or two and then start speaking. This way you have a little bit of We'll be able to go back, and we could remove practice to get the room noise, especially And later on, I'll show you how we can do that, Mmm, the Kevin Cookie Company makes some of the had before. If you've ever had Mrs. Fields, you haven't experienced a good cookie yet. Find and enjoy the best. I've now finished my recording the volume level was a little bit lower. I In a little bit, I'll show you how we can let's take this scroll bar and let's move to the screen you can see a set of wave forms, and this Time is the horizontal and then loudness here near the end, you see that my voice was a lot softer as I moved away from the microphone And here you notice that it's a lot You can match my speech to these is when I said Mmm and so you see that And as I'm speaking, some letters or some words are a little bit louder. And here you see that the wave spikes a where you can visualize what your speech looks I can go up to the top left-hand corner When I hover over this, you'll see some of the associated shortcut keys. Here for and if I press shift together with the I could click my mouse over here and this So let me press the spacebar and let's play it'll stop playing and the play head So, if I press spacebar again. Now, let's say that I'm playing through and beginning, what if I simply want to pause it and I have a pause button. When I hover over So here let's play again and Mmm and I press P to pause right there, and The Kevin Cookie Company. So those are a few ways As I'm playing and pausing, you'll notice a few this line indicates the start point. So, once and right here you'll see where the play it'll pick up from this specific point. When we hovered over the play icon, you So, if I just pressed shift and spacebar, it would play through the entire commercial, but I could also select some of my waveform Let's say for example I want to play my Mmm on tool. I could also press F1. There you'll see the my waveform. And right here I'll press shift and again and again. I'll only play it twice. You With the selection tool, I have a portion wanted to include more in this selection, and you see this finger icon appear. I could and I could do the same on the other side. I could also click there, and I As an alternative, I could so here I could press shift there, and I could expand my selection. So this is a I just want to play this portion, once again, The Kevin Cookie Company makes some of the most can just play a specific selection of my audio. portion of my clip and when I hover over up on top here and it'll automatically start playing. If another way I can playback a certain portion of a lot of audio, you might want to jump to the You can use the scroll bar on the bottom you can also click on these icons, so here if I I could jump to the end. Once again, when I hover So, I could press the home key and Or I could press the end key So just some neat shortcut keys that Now that we've looked at some of the different let's see what some of these other tools are. And let's start with the zoom tool. I'll click on this, and I can So here I can see more of the simply clicking the left mouse button I can click the right key and that'll zoom me And if you remember in the introduction when we I mentioned that when we record audio, you're So once again, it's like the frame rate of video. So here when I zoom all the way in, So here you see all of these little dots. Each like the frames in a video and together these Here I can zoom out again by pressing the right Now you might remember the first sound I made was Now with the zoom tool selected, I can also go and when I do that, it'll zoom in so I just see I can also use these other buttons. Here so it effectively does the same thing with the zoom tool, I could both zoom in and I could also use these icons up on top. It effectively does the same Now, let's say I want to see my I have this icon over here that When I press this, here I can see the So far, my commercial has the audio but I also want to include some music, just and I can very easily import audio into Audacity. file, open, and here you'll see the shortcut key navigate to where I have the music on my computer As an alternative, I could also go import, and I could import audio I can also simply take some audio that I have and I can drag and drop it into Audacity and that My project is starting to come together. I have my music. I have some voiceover on here. I want to save it, just to ensure Up here in the top left-hand corner, I'll click on file and then there's I'm going to go to save project as. Now When I save the Audacity project, tracks and any of the different audio if I ever want to go back and maybe I want to But later on, let's say I want to distribute the file menu and here I could go to export, and I'm not done doing all my edits yet, so I'm not out what the difference is between saving For now, I'm still working on this, so let's This opens up a save dialog and here you'll see that it saves it as an AUP3 project Phew, I feel a lot better that I saved things now. I'd hate to have to go back and I have my music here and I have my these waveforms for the music are a lot Let me go to the very beginning and let's So, as I was playing that, you probably pretty greatly, and you can't really so I need to adjust the levels down here left-hand side we have the gain. This is a way I I'm going to play it and I'll adjust the gain could hear the speech a lot better. So, I'll Mmm, the Kevin Cookie Company makes some of the most before. So that's sounding a lot better. You could the music, but it's not overpowering anymore. So gain on just the music. Now that I have the level some tweaks to the voice over, but as I'm doing Luckily, I can silence the music so Right over here, I can click on mute and that'll I only hear my voice, so this way it Now as an alternative, I'll click on mute Let's say I had multiple tracks and I I can click on solo and by clicking on solo, and it'll mute out all of OK, now that I have my track set, I want to make some changes, and I was no surprise there, that I probably like Mrs. Fields and the Nabisco. They might We've been driving so many sales, I wouldn't Now I want to cut out that portion of Let's play it back and as soon as I So, let's play it to see where it is. Mmm, the Kevin Cookie Company makes you've probably never had before, so I haven't so I know it's not there, so I'm going Let me bring the play head right here Now one thing you'll notice is, I so that's why there's just There's basically no loudness to so you'll just see this flat waveform. Let's see if it's in this section. If or other so called cookie brands, you And that's the section where I refer to these To delete this, I'm going to I'll select this selection And over here I'll simply highlight this finger tool to expand or contract the size Now I want to remove this right here, so key and that'll remove that portion of my you'll hear that it simply jumps to the next I think that sounds pretty good. I think Now that I've addressed that issue, I want and here you'll notice that the intro waveform is a lot smaller, and those volume levels aren't Ever had before, find the new. There you'll just notice that the and luckily there are a few First, I want to show you how we can When I click on this, you'll notice Here I'll go back to selection, And here you see a dark gray Right here I can click where I want to make then I'll click on the second one. And maybe So, there you see that I can raise up. Here I'll drag it right up near the top. I'll place another one over here and So, this is a quick way where I can use Now, one thing you'll notice though it's not quite enough to get this so I don't know if I'll be able to use the So let me actually get rid of I could simply click on these little I pull it all the way up here, that'll So here brought it right back to I'll go back to the selection tool and let Next, I want to try an effect to see Right up in the effect menu, there's an option for and I'll go up to effect and then amplify. Right or I could enter in the new peak amplitude. How figure out the numbers, we're going to listen to as a reference for setting the amplitude over play this clip. Makes some of the most delicious Here, as we were listening to it, up here, and here it's around negative So, I want this to match the playback over here. So once again I'll highlight this, let here I'll use this slider to go right So that aligns with the other clip right here the waveforms match much more closely, so My commercial is starting to come along it sounds like so far. I'll press the home key that brings me to the beginning. Here I'll One thing I don't like is it and when I'm on a radio station I don't want some dead time there. Here I'll zoom in just a little bit so you could Now I could take the selection tool like we did before. I could highlight However, I want to show you how So, I'm going to deselect that and let's I'll go down to the second track and you see my Here I can click on this track, and So here you could get precise Here I'll place it so it's right near So, if I click on home now and now play, Now one other problem, I want my speech to So, I want to align this portion So here I'll click on the top track and So right now, my speech will start I'll move my play head right to here Mmm, the Kevin Cookie Company. That's sounding pretty good. Now I'm paying for a 30 second radio cuts off right before the 20 second mark, but I want a little bit more of a separation so I basically want to insert a gap. There I'll put my play head right here and I'll go I can generate silence. I'll click on this and hours, minutes and seconds and maybe I'll put So, here now my speech starts right at about so it better fills out my commercial and here I can put my play head right here, I can go to edit split these clips, so you see this line appearing Once again, I can go over here and select the time wherever I want. So here I can move it back a and this will be silence in between these two like this Mmm at the beginning and I would love So just like I could use on you press control C and to paste you use Here I can highlight the Mmm at the beginning As an alternative, you could go up to the and this will refresh you to what all of me go towards the end and maybe right at So right here I'll press control Here now, I'll play the ending and Find the nearest location at All right, that's sounding pretty good. I like but I think I can make it even better. When I'm quieter and then when I'm not speaking, I want again, I want it to be a little bit quieter. Now I different points in here. So let's say maybe over but I'd rather just rely on an I'm going to undo all of these changes To do this, let's go to the top there's something called auto duck. Basically, is going to duck out a little bit and then once Let's actually test this out to see how it works. To be able to do this, I need to the bottom track and it's I'll click over here and press and I can pull the track down Next, I want to duck the music So over here I'll go to the very beginning simply select this entire track and I really Right here I'll go up to effect This opens up a prompt where I can configure different settings where if it detects and then how long should it stay in You could go through and you could test out these and down below you can even preview For now, I'll stick with all of And take a look at that, it automatically and as soon as I stop speaking, the volume Let's go to the beginning to Mmm, the Kevin Cookie Company makes you've probably never had before. So that's pretty nice. This way you can hear me speaking a little the music kicks in a little bit more. That sounds pretty good, and it's a really that your music or maybe the background Now I mentioned that I have so here let me zoom out so Right at the 30 second mark, you see that the So here I can simply click into 30 seconds. Let me highlight this whole area and that'll remove that whole section. I'll go to the very end and let's You'll notice at the end of my and I'd rather have it fade out. Luckily, I can apply a fade. Here, I'll effects. Within effects, I'll click on fade out, and look at that, it now fades it out. So, That sounds a lot better. Next, I want to show you another effect Now you'll notice on my waveform where I'm My room is a pretty quiet environment, however, or maybe an air conditioner. You can very easily let me highlight this area. Once again, it's always a good practice to So, if you need to remove background I'll select this area here, I'll go up to called noise reduction. Right here, I can click on understand what that background noise is. Next, I need to select my entire track now I'll select this whole area. noise reduction, and now it knows the profile I have different settings that I can configure, Now this will reduce it, and this to keep the background noise So, let's click on OK to Mmm, the Kevin Cookie Company. Now to me it sounds mostly the same because but if you had a fan or an air conditioner, Lastly, I want to show you how you can use one more effect called the compressor, Well, when we look at my waveform down here, bit louder where I emphasize a word and so there's a large dynamic range and as I'm So, for example, let's say maybe you might not be able to hear all of those so I'm going to go right up to the effect This opens up the compressor and here you you can configure to make sure that If you want to learn about this, I'd and you can read about what these I simply want to pull my highs down and my lows I'll leave all the defaults where And here now you can see my One thing you're probably starting a massive variety of different effects changes to your audio, chances are there You can go through and experiment There are some really fun ones too. You can change your speed. You could change your pitch. There are all sorts of different things For now, this sounds pretty good. I'm going to go back and play to make sure that it sounds how I want it to be. Mmm, the Kevin Cookie Company makes some you've probably never had before. Find the nearest location at All right, well that sounds pretty good. I'm now ready to distribute my audio file. I want to send it to the radio station I'm going to go up to the file menu and we're going to go down to export and file types. I could export as an MP3. This is so the quality might not be the highest, I could also export as a wav. This is uncompressed, but it's also a much larger 30 seconds, so I'll go with wav. This opens up Here I see the save type and I can Down below I can also indicate and by default it's set to 16 bit, just for slightly higher quality and then me that all of my separate tracks will be mixed That sounds fine, so I'll click on OK. Here I could enter in metadata for my file, so So, if you open this in something like iTunes different values and display them. I'll just My audio file is now successfully created Now that I've saved my audio file, I could distribute it. I could email I could send it to the radio station and finally All right, well that's how you If you enjoyed this video, please give it please consider subscribing. Also, if you want make sure to leave a note down below. All I hope you enjoyed, and as always,