The new life has begun. Do you see, domain? My Ferrari sports car. Lift one batch, there are three more batches . Let's go. The last box. What happened to him? What on earth made him so nervous? I don't know, maybe it's those boy scouts. It's unbelievable. Coordinates 203, 565 Over. Receive coordinates 203, 565. Clear our boats. Let's go. The enemy is taking cover at ten o'clock. We need their boats to lead them into the woods. [ __ ] boy scouts. When, Team B landed and grabbed one of their boats, it's okay to come back. High, take your boat to the open sea. We'll find you there. Get out of here, full speed. No, man, all the machines have stopped . What's wrong with us? Stay here. Watching those ships outside , I know you are listening. Your men are too good friends. They have told me everything. You have indeed eavesdropped on our telecommunications . Surrender. I will wait for you here. If you want to arrest me, I, but you have to pay a price. Everyone heard him say, change the frequency and speak Chinese. After walking around, I found your boat. James, what? James, I feel something is wrong. Why are there no guards? Don't move, the police should be damned. We have a companion . Help him stop the bleeding. Become a sniper as I say. Area C is ready for NO. 1 brigade, Area 1 is on guard for NO. 2, NO. 3 brigade, Area 2 is on alert for all EUs. The patrol cars are also on standby. Team A can be mobilized at any time to advance towards Team B. Attack Team A. Go up and buy some food. Don't forget to buy some beer when you come back. Squat down and catch her. What's wrong with you? I'm fine. If you [ __ ] him, it will explode. Who will shoot? Report quickly. Don't kill me. Go to the dungeon and go to safety. Contact the suspect and find the suspect in area B. Report to team D. We have a member of the rescue team who was shot. Go call rescue team C. They are coming towards us. Go to B and C quickly. Team, chase them to area C. C1 is preparing for an ambush. There is an ambush ahead. Escape over there. Chase the sniper quickly. The enemy is approaching area C. Get ready. The target is patient here . They have snipers B and team C. The thieves go up the mountain and continue the pursuit. Don't go out and take on snipers. How about your side? They not only had one sniper report, but the prisoners went up the back mountain on the C side and gathered all the injured brothers at the gate . Team BC separated fifty yards and searched up the mountain. Team B, Team B on the mountain , Team B on the mountain. Rescue the wounded quickly. Go to the scene. All units immediately support the sniper. There is a sniper covering position C. Get down. Get down. There are mines inside. Everyone, be careful and don't move. Relax and stop the pursuit. All teams report casualties. Officer, there are five in Group B. Have the two sniper teams, two D teams, and three ambulances arrived? Three vehicles have arrived. The chief immediately notified Princess Margaret Hospital. We have more than ten people on the way. We asked the traffic police to clear the way. It's senior sister. The funeral papers are back. The police and customs are working. What are you doing? Sir Achang, let's go, senior sister. You don't have to go up to do it. I'll report to you once it's done. It's just a raid on the drug den. It's not as exciting as you think. Be careful, senior sister, don't play tricks on me. Do n't move. Don't shoot during customs operations . Sit down Ah Chi and pull him away. Yes, sir, don't fire. Gun, calm down, don't be afraid, don't make any noise, stand aside , sit down, shut up and help, come help, move quickly, lift him up, kill you, everyone squat down , sir, there's someone shooting from above, don't be afraid, hurry up, the door is locked, get out of the way. Don't go in with your own people, don't shoot Brother Xiong, what's the situation? Senior sister, I don't know either. Go back quickly. There is a gun, an AK. Is there anyone else inside? Call the main station at 35629... I don't know, it's chaos, don't go in. There 's a gunfight on Guanghua Street, please support. Come on, Zu, what's going on? The scene is on the fourth floor . It is a 600-speaker unit with one living room and one room. PTU (stormtroopers) and PC (military police) have been guarding the corridor, but the customs said that the other party's firepower is very powerful. Customs? What does it have to do with them? They say it's their case but they don't know if anyone is inside. Is the Sniper in position? Team B is ready. It's the blocked back stairs. Team A is following me sniper. Please report that the unit has curtains. We can't. You can clearly see the situation inside, but the main entrance is safe. The snipers are preparing to attack the team. Team A is safe on the back stairs. Why don't you take the elevator? Didn't you hear clearly just now? The lift is broken. What are you doing? Is it heavy? Do you want me to get some for you? Do you think there is anyone inside? One hundred dollars, I bet there was one hundred dollars, I said no, sniper ready, Biao, yes, sir, since you want to know if there is anyone inside, you go in first . What's your plan? No. Rush in. Sniper, shoot. Safety. Safety. Safety. It's safe here. Send someone up. Command center. There's a woman's body upstairs . There's someone there. Don't shoot. It's the flying team. There's no need to be so nervous. What are you doing? what the hell? The Flying Tigers are coming down. Please look here. Thank you. We must have been photographed this time. I will record it when I get home. Wearing a mask, who knew it was you? Are you dissatisfied that my mask has one more hole than yours ? What's not to like? Not satisfied with anything. Chief Wang, Chief Zheng asked you to go back to the scene first. I'll be here later. Okay. Thank you. What did you do? She is the Asian Ice Queen and she slipped away. What else are you trying to do? Sir Liu, Inspector Guan Jiahui is my subordinate. If you are dissatisfied in any way, you can complain to her in the Complaints Department. But please don't speak so loudly. Okay, we are here to solve the problem, not to quarrel . How many pills? Nineteen You solve it, okay. It 's 7. 62 again. Yes, nothing new. But looking at the cluster of bullet holes, it should be an expert . Are there many experts in Hong Kong? That's it, okay? Okay, I haven't finished eating yet, sir. A motorcycle was lost by the Department of Transportation and recovered. When will you meet with the inspection team? Have you read your psychological analysis report on the 20th of next month? I have applied for review. I must ask them to transfer you. I know , but I am still in this position. Can I leave? No, this female inspector must have left the Asian ice queen from here. The news outside is so tense. If she comes back, there must be a big deal. I need to set up a project team to catch her. The other side has strong firepower. Your flight team has to assist. This is originally a customs case. The investigation is left to the head of the Customs and Excise Department . What about us? This is not your case. Our anti-drug sister has better experience and human resources than them. How can the customs cope with it? You say you are strong? Why are you still unaware of the ice queen's return to Hong Kong? The ICAC told me that some of you may have colluded in this case. I don't want it to be made public, so don't force me. Let's just leave it like this. Customs will be in charge of the team's temporary headquarters. Do you have any objections? Senior sister, where to put it? Just find a place to put it down. By the way, has the distilled water been delivered? Coming soon. Thank you. Senior sister, Sang Wencheng escaped in the chaos that day. We still can't find him yet. He won't be silenced by Binghou's gang, right? It's possible, he's just a little guy and told you not to be so rude, it's none of my business. That's great. Now everyone knows we're here to call someone to repair it. Just take a gun and polish it when you're bored. After lighting it up, Chief Zhang will be installed . Are there any other new things? Okay, we can come up with something new. Everyone, please run upstairs and come back in full gear, okay? Sir Zhang, is the total of nineteen floors here too small? No, pretend I haven't said anything. Commander Zhang , clean the gun. The gun is your life. The gun is more important than your wife. The gun is more important than your words. You should clean it diligently. Besides, the environment here is so good. I think this place is simply paradise. What do you think of those senior sisters ? I don't know, maybe there's something going on. Why don't you go in and see what's going on? We found a note on the deceased woman's body with several addresses on it. This matter has been publicized, so there shouldn't be any clues. What do the Flying Tigers think? No problem, we are the attack team. You give the order without analysis, and we will attack. I think we should search Jiahui, Artest and Thomas. I'm sorry, Mrs. Yan. This action seems to be dangerous by a woman. It doesn't seem like a good idea to go and do it. Sir Wang, I didn't ask for your opinion. You female customs officers don't even have guns. This was something that happened in the past. The boss approved it. They can decide whether to carry guns or not. Don't be ridiculous. Please don't do this with me. You want it? Mission? It's been given to you. Do you accept it? Okay, Mrs. Yan, I just hope you know what you're doing . Be smart and don't embarrass us . Target, no movement. Sniper A, ready. B, ready. Target. Action. Repeat. Action. Mobile unit. So what if the CID is ready? We can do it. Come on, what are you going to do? I have not yet given the order to be the 1st and 2nd Squadrons. According to the original plan, the 3rd and 4th Squadrons will block the road and evacuate the crowd. The other squadrons will assist the Flying Tigers in the work command center. The Stormtroopers have prepared the mobile troops and are in position over there , Team B. Stop the white car and get to work. Let's go. Come on, pack up and leave. If you stay outside, do n't go in. If there is no situation, inform your brothers to go back to the lobby to take action. Team A is in action. Team B is in action. Team A is ready. All teams are in place. Shock. The bomb attack team entered the house and one of them died. Two of them died. The suspects were dead. Search the room... There is a suspect crawling out... Sniper, don't fire and notify the brothers on the outside . A suspect climbed out and notify the brothers on the outside to expand the blockade. Take cover, I put the gun down, you have no chance to escape. Damn it. Let's repeat it again, sir. I've said it five times. Bombers, two people are dead. It's worth knowing why they were killed. It's better for them to die for resisting than for us to die. Much better. I think you know this. They are suspects and have not been tried in court. They have not been sentenced to death. I want to reiterate that we are a police force, not soldiers. Our duty is to protect and serve the public. If we reduce casualties and deaths, we will die if we fail in our duties. He is a prisoner and I don't want him to lead a group of perverted killers. He is a pervert. Psychiatrists say this about him. What do you mean? Say it again, I'm sorry, sir. What are you talking about? Sorry, okay, let's take a break. Farewell, no more rest. Everyone, put on your equipment . Yes, sir. Zu, their attitude is really problematic. Of course, you can't ask everyone to be like you. Do they treat it as just a profession? Just treat it as a profession? If they make a mistake, others will lose their lives. But they have made much progress. It is not fast enough. You may not necessarily be transferred. Sir Wang, could you please go there? Are you injured? Do n't you know? If you want to shoot next time, don't shoot behind your teammates. They may not be as lucky as me. And... why don't you and your Mrs. Yan do a good deed? How about handing this case back to the anti-drug team? What we are doing now is not to arrest fellow Taoists . I am afraid that it is beyond your ability. Sir Wang, please take a look at the customs regulations. Combating drugs is our customs' responsibility. If it is serious, it is none of our business. Maybe you think What we do are all small cases, but this case, we will definitely be able to settle it. You don't need to worry about it. What are the American anti-drug teams doing here? Nice to see you. Nice to see you too. How are you? What brings you here? Ice, a lot of ice. I believe you are old acquaintances , right. We were trained in the same camp before . Well, let's talk business. We have verified that the ingredients of the ice we seized are the same as those seized by the Chinese police . The value is determined. It's millions, you know? We thought, this is just a sample. Are you kidding me? According to our tip, someone transported four tons of ice to the black market for sale. Four tons, how much is it worth? About 2.5 billion US dollars. A lot of money. A lot of money? It's a lot of money. Some people say that Bill Keith is the richest man in the United States. No, the richest man in the United States should be a drug criminal. Since the Ice Queen is here, that means that the Ice Queen must be here, so I am here. My colleague Aba can say that this is a big case. Li Cantonese, he will show you the information related to this case. Please understand that we are here to assist, not to direct your work. If you have any dissatisfaction, tell me and we will disappear immediately. I think we do need some help. Jiahui, you and Ah Let's go and take a look at the information. Okay , thank you. Can Angel access the international network? Okay, check this URL. I have the password. Do you like rock music? I like Andy Lau and I also like to be obedient. Sir, get ready. Let's all run up to the 19th floor and come back clearly. Senior sister, we have already searched. Let's search again. Maybe we have missed some clues to search. Didn't you find it normal? No clues, nothing found. Let's search again. The phone has been taken back. Have you checked with the phone company? Wait a minute. What? Lower price? [ __ ] you, this is already the lowest price. You have no place to buy such a large quantity of goods. Nonsense. Just tell me if you want the goods. I will deliver them on time. They said there is another batch of ice on the shelf. Nonsense, the container is detained by the customs. How could it happen? It was said to be a routine inspection, sister. There is the phone number of the container truck company on the phone list. We checked that they have 25 containers detained in our warehouse. The Hong Kong Customs has informed Mrs. Yan of the container cargo group. She should come quickly. Why don't you tell the Flying Tigers to prepare for dispatch ? It's better to be safe. Senior sister, check which district the container is in. Ah Wei, call the police. Senior sister, there is a car in the third district. Youzai , intercept it. Be careful. Are you okay? It's okay, but Youzi has been shot. Call the ambulance. If you find any clues, notify the Flying Tigers as soon as possible. Everyone knows that the thieves have strong firepower. If the customs can act alone, is it necessary to set up a joint team? Don't just hit the wall and use your brain. Please allow me to say something. Your subordinate has done her best. I said she is not suitable for this job, but you should be proud of her. Give me a report tomorrow morning. I will report it to my boss. My explanation is that sometimes you are quite fair and I am often quite fair. You discriminate against women. If you think that protecting women is a form of discrimination , then just treat me as discriminating against women. Anyway, thank you. I don't want to cause any trouble. Please hand over the case. Give it to us. What do you want me to say so that you understand? This is a customs case and it is our responsibility. Or do you think the customs is too weak? Although we have insufficient manpower and handle only trivial cases , we will not shirk our responsibilities. If there is any danger, just hand it over to the Flying Tigers. Aren't you too busy? ? Okay, we can handle it. What if we can't? Who will you give it to? You never give up, right? Yes, so are you. That's great. Mr. Zheng, the formalities have been completed. You and this gentleman can go get your container back. Thank you, Lawyer Peng. Let's call again. Bye bye. Girlfriend? I have a sixth sense. My former girlfriend, senior sister, found out that the container was shipped from the mainland. The customs declaration stated that it was a toy. The owner of the cargo belonged to a trading company. There is no one in the company. How can we get the container back? There are more than 100,000 containers in Hong Kong. How to find them? Artest, Thomas, it's useless for us to act in a hurry. Senior sister, in fact, we were very lucky that no one had an accident last time. There is no need to ask them to take such risks. Can we choose? Is it right that every time before arresting criminals, we ask them, &quot;Do you have any guns?&quot; &quot;If so, let's leave first.&quot; Everyone, take a break. Yes, I heard that the joint team has joined the anti-drug team again. It should have been done long ago. But what about the customs? We won't drive them away. You have to give them some face no matter what, right? Zu, how are you? Bring the toolbox for what? Change the gun Change the gun? For some weird reason they designed the gun to lock after firing. If you want to fire a second time, you have to fully [ __ ] the gun. Don't be unhappy. It's not because you're nervous that you shoot slowly. It's just the design of the gun. But we This problem can be solved. Does anyone want to try it? Senior sister, if your superiors find out, they will definitely scold you to death. Our superiors will not know about preparing tomatoes. Please teach him. Thank you. You are welcome. I just don't want others to be unhappy. There are many good people in your team. You really can't pass the psychiatrist. That's it again. Your sixth sense? I heard people say why? Lost in love? What did they say? The Sixth Sense: Sir Liu, someone is looking for you at the reception desk. How about letting him in ? Is there a situation? Commander Kuang, you came just in time. I asked the gangsters to hand over funeral papers. Do you think we caught him? Zu, look, Chief Liu, all five of them say their name is Sangwen. Are all five of you called Sangwen? Brother Big Brother said there are twenty more coming. What you are holding in your hands is Dadi's territory in Kowloon. I want you to sweep them back from the streets to the end of the street. No matter how big or small you demolish your home, Taoist nuns and fellow Taoists, or bring I'll arrest all those who look bad and ask them to close down for at least a week, do you hear me? Yes, let's go. What are you still doing here? If you don't lead the team, do you want me to lead the team? Yes, sir, I have not been teased like this for a long time. Last night at about 12 o'clock, about 200 mobile unit personnel, together with a large number of Kowloon Regional Anti-drug Team officers, conducted large-scale searches of entertainment venues and some units suspected of hiding drugs in Sham Shui Wat and Mong Kok. During the operation, the CCP seized 18 grams of heroin, a small amount of marijuana and soft drugs. Thirty men and four women were taken away for questioning. The police said that the operation has not yet ended and will continue for several weeks to combat drug trafficking activities in the area. Please wait. Liu Sir, there is a man named Dadi who is looking for you, Sir Liu. There is no need to play tricks on each other like this. You are making us restless and it is not good for you. Are you really going to drive me into a dead end? Brother, you have told me before that you will do all kinds of evil things in your life, but you will never sell drugs. I just raided a few drug dens. How can I have anything to do with you? Commander Liu, I have many men. Can you capture them all? Besides, 97 is coming soon. Don't fool me. There are three empty refugee camps. Can your men fill them? Do you want me to take you to visit? After 1997, although we are no longer the royal family, we are still the police. Don't think that I am a gangster. But then again, if your brother is a good man, how can I hinder you? I just asked you to find an outsider for me. You will definitely be able to do it. Our target is an abandoned factory in Tsing Yi South District. Operation code name: Snowman. How about it? Is it my turn? Lend it to me and I'll help you pass the test. Come on. If you want to play, buy it yourself. Don't be so stingy. 148 Damn it, A Biao, what number are you running? What number is running? 147. I told you to buy 147, but you bought 148. I told you not to bet on horse racing, but I made an appointment with my girlfriend to eat Japanese food tonight. Where can I get the money? Take it easy, Danny, you don't want a girlfriend like this, get rid of her and stop making trouble. Get ready, work sniper, Zone C preparation NO. 1 brigade, Zone 1 alert NO. 2, NO. 3 brigade, 2 All EU patrol cars in the district are on standby. Team A can be mobilized at any time to advance towards Team B. Attack Team A. Go up and buy some food. Don't forget to buy beer when you come back. Okay, squat down and catch her. What's wrong with you? I'm fine. If you [ __ ] him, it will explode. Who will shoot? Report quickly, do n't kill me. Let's go to the dungeon. Safe contact. The suspect is found in area B. Team D reports. We have a member of the rescue team who was shot. Go call the rescue team C. They are coming towards us. Quickly go to teams B and C. , chase them to Area C C1 and prepare for an ambush. There is an ambush in front of you. Escape over there. Chase the snipers quickly. The enemy is approaching Area C and be ready. The target is patient here . They have snipers B and Team C. The thieves go up the mountain and continue to hunt for others. Go out and get a sniper, how about your side? They not only have one sniper report, the prisoners went up the back mountain on the C side, gathered all the injured brothers at the gate, Team BC, separated fifty yards to search the mountain, got on Team B, on the mountain B, rescue the wounded and go to the scene, all The unit immediately supports the sniper. There is a sniper in position C. Don't get down. There are mines in there. Everyone, be careful and don't move. Relax and stop the pursuit. All teams report casualties. Officer, there are five sniper teams and two in Group B. Have the three ambulances from Team D arrived? Three vehicles have arrived, sir. Immediately notify Princess Margaret Hospital. We have more than ten people on the way and ask the traffic police to clear the way. Yes, doctor, what's the matter? The injured person's life is not in danger, but his legs cannot be saved. I'm sorry. Have you notified his family? He has no family. You mean the gangster is a policeman? Not only is the MP5 machine gun a weapon of the disciplined forces, it cannot be owned by private individuals, and it cannot even be bought on the black market. Tomorrow, I want you to give me everyone's bank account, including yours ? I want to know who is in debt because of the MP5 machine gun. Just do what I say. What the hell? [ __ ] you, come here. I have decided to disband the joint team. This case will be handed over to the military department for follow-up. This is a matter for the police department. I don't need you to teach me how to do it. I can't afford to lose more soldiers and generals. Everyone can cancel their vacation anytime next week. Order an internal investigation, it's impossible that it's not your turn. No internal investigation is needed. If you want to investigate, I will investigate for you. If you want me to resign, then I will resign. But don't ask for my useless internal investigation. If I am in the office building If I see you, come and collect the dead body. Damn Dangdang, it's Mei. Meibao asked you not to call her again. She said you would understand. And she said she wouldn't want the money from your joint account . Stop being so down, okay? Cherish, son, it's your mother. Yesterday was your father's birthday, and you forgot it again? I bought a pipe for you and gave it to him. You have to cooperate with the confession and give me a call when you have time. Mr. Wang, this is Asia Jewelry with the surname Kuang. You ordered a diamond ring from our company and have been preparing it for a while. If you still If you don't come to pick it up, we will confiscate your deposit. Claymore's arms expert's report proves that these are soldiers, not the Flying Tigers. They use a type of mine called Claymore, which is a special equipment of the US military. Ask me to check all veterans and employees. Bing, let's see if anyone is in Hong Kong, but there's nothing suspicious. What will happen to us next? In short, just do your job properly. Does n't it mean that you can't continue the investigation without an office? Besides, this case is so big, there must be bad news circulating. The market price of amphetamine in the United States has just dropped by 20%. What does it mean? ? There is only one reason why the price has dropped like this. It is because there is too much supply. I think our goods have just been shipped to the United States. Abba, pack your bags and we will go back to the United States tomorrow morning. Okay. I'll give him the bomber's game console. Can I help? No, thank you. Don't blame yourself too much for this. You are dealing with a group of guys like Lan Bao this time. They are professional warriors. Domain, what do you think we are? A group of Scouts? Dang, I know you and your boss are not at odds with each other. If you need my help, you can always come to me. I can use my connections, which often works. Thank you for your kindness. You're welcome. Dang, you know? You and I don't have to be polite. Tell Commander Pan that the office in the command center will be handed back to him tomorrow. Yes, sir. Are you all ready? Yes What happened to your China Doll? Have you said goodbye to her? Let's go get a drink. What? Let's go back to the embassy. I know about Team Charlie. Are you crazy? What are you talking about? A team of SEALs working for us in Burma were last heard from three weeks ago and disappeared without a trace. You were the commander. They're still in Burma. They're here. When I heard the Claymore mine, I knew it was our team. Why do you do this? You can join. It's drug money, so what? It's 200 million, man. It's [ __ ] dirty money, domain. You think you're a total failure, or yes. You're not the best, but you're not the worst either. Remember Operation Rampage? In 1986, in Grenada, 6,500 U.S. troops, including Navy and Army special forces, fought against 50 Cuban soldiers and 2,000 militiamen. The result was a mess with heavy casualties. A team of SEALs landed in the sea on a C130, and all of them were drowned. The height of the division was too low. Two Cobra helicopters risked flying over the forest to rescue a group of besieged seals, only to be shot down. It was later discovered that the seals were not attacked at all. They were asking for help randomly just to panic. They are the best commando team in the world. We are not supermen. We may have lost once just because we did not estimate the strength of the other party. I guarantee that we will not fail again. I guarantee that Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten issued a statement expressing his response to the incident in which four members of the Flying Tigers were killed and nine members were injured. , was shocked and angry, and asked the Commissioner of Police to submit a report as soon as possible. At the same time, I expressed my deep condolences to the families of the dead and injured... I can only believe that I will be able to survive safely in the future. Since I cannot stay away, it is better to persist in fighting until I defeat this [ __ ]. Stupid idiot, I could have made you big Come on, come on, he's starting to stink Okay, he's great I'm serious, he's really great That's what you said to this [ __ ] Goodbye Okay, they all Are you ready? The new life has begun. Do you see? My Ferrari sports car is hoisting one batch, and there are three batches left. I want to see you, can you come out? Good afternoon, sir. Could you two please come over here? Want a menu? I'd like a cup of coffee. No problem. Thank you. Thank you. What would you like to drink? Frozen Milk Tea Frozen Italian Coffee What happened? Do you remember Aba? What about Ayu's assistant? He's missing. How did you know? We had made an appointment to go to the concert that night, but he didn't come. I went to the U.S. Consulate to ask, and they said he had gone back, but his things were left at my place. I called him many times in the U.S. but couldn't get in touch. I checked at the immigration department and there is no record of his departure. Have you asked Yu Yu? Yu said that he returned to the United States. The information Aba left behind was very strange. He was checking Yu and some shipping companies. I checked the information with Chief Liu. We think there is no reason for the ice to be transported so quickly. Also, take a look. This ship, very suspicious. She's been here for three weeks and still hasn't been loaded. What do you think? I want to search this search ship, but I'm worried that the firepower is not enough. The Claymore's main purpose is not to kill people, but to injure you, [ __ ] you, and become a liability to your partners. Its explosion range is fifty meters directly in front and its height is 2.4 Abin, so you don't need many meters to cover the entire range. The bomber is not here. You can temporarily take over the position of the blast. Read the information familiarly. Let's all put on full equipment and go to sea. Let's double the ammunition for everyone. Let's take action. I'm sorry. ? When I was in the hospital last time, my temper was a bit loud. I should trust everyone. Sometimes I thought you couldn't live without me. I was wrong. The so- called attitude problem may have been transmitted from me. Thank you, Zu, please think clearly. , you have the right not to go, I decided to go with everyone , let's get on the boat, so many of you failed last time, why do you think you are sure about me this time? Sir, we were ambushed last time. If we fail this time, you can get rid of a commander you don't like very much. But if you call in all the Flying Tigers in the military now, you won't have the face to raise your head again. They will lose it. Fighting Spirit It's Our Job Have you ever thought about your future? I think it's already embarrassing anyway, so it doesn't matter if I continue to be blamed. I promised the Secretary of Security that I won't let you get involved in this operation. I won't approve this operation, but you can go to sea and conduct live-fire exercises . Keep a low profile and don't mobilize so many things in case you encounter it. If you have any problems, ask the British army for help immediately . Let's go. Thank you. Don't die. I want someone to carry this black nest. Don't worry. Hong Kong Customs, we have to search the ship. Okay , we didn't find the silly leopard here. Have you found any? Senior sister, I didn't find it. OK, I got it. How big is the volume of four tons of ice? About the size of a shipping container. I assume they're not here? Diving team, please report. Report: No movement. Got it. Of course, the diving team has been beside the ship for more than ten hours without finding anything. Why don't we close the team ? Jiahui, which phone number did you call last time to find Yu? Call his mobile phone. Give me his phone number. I feel he is nearby. Call the headquarters. Please be prepared. If he is in Hong Kong, you can definitely find out which area he is in . Okay, this is Adang Dang. What's going on? You should know that I'm still investigating the ice case . Don't waste your time. That shipment has already been shipped to Mexico. They broke it into pieces and shipped it to the United States. I sent Aba to deal with it. Is this the work of the South American Drug Traffickers Confederation? You should know that they hate those people from the Golden Triangle. It's nice to watch them kill each other. I found it. It's G7. Yes. The location is G7 area. Can you do me a favor? Of course, what? Can you give me all the information you need about the Navy and Army commandos working in Asia ? Are you serious? I think they're the ones we want to catch . Why? The weapons and tactics are similar . I know that these data are too sensitive , so I asked you for help. Okay, I want to think about how to help you. I am a friend. You are my best friend. I know that I will always be a domain. Give me Let me say hello to Aba. Okay, take care of yourself. Why should you die? He knows. What are you talking about? Rongsheng, wake up those people, let's go now? I thought we had three days. Plans changed. Asked Akko to prepare to sail. Did you hear that? Everyone, wake up. What happened? The old man said he was leaving at four o'clock in the morning? Come on, wake everyone up. I'm having a sweet dream. You only have five seconds to get out of your bed. Team B will land on the west side of the island. Let's go. Last box. What happened to him? What on earth made him so nervous? I don't know, maybe it's those boy scouts. It's unbelievable. Coordinates 203, 565 Over. Receive coordinates 203, 565. Clear our boat. Let's go. The enemy is taking cover at ten o'clock. We need their boat to lead them into the woods. [ __ ] boy scouts. When, Team B landed and grabbed one of their boats, it's okay to come back. High, take your boat to the open sea. We'll find you there. Get out of here, full speed. No, man, all the machines have stopped . What's wrong with us? Stay here. Watching those ships outside , I know you are listening. Your men are too good friends. They have told me everything. You have indeed eavesdropped on our telecommunications . Surrender. I will wait for you here. If you want to arrest me, I, but you have to pay a price. Everyone heard him say, change the frequency and speak Chinese. After walking around, I found your boat. James, what? James, I feel something is wrong. Why are there no guards? Don't move, policeman. Damn it. Boy, we're in company. Someone, Hua Hua, stop the bleeding. Do as I say. Where's your boat? I have sunk Bin. Form a defensive line with them. Don't let the enemy attack from behind. Biao, Danny, let's go up. Yes, sir. Are you Bin? Senior sister, please sit aside first. Go over there and help me keep an eye on them. Senior sister, come back. Senior sister is a sniper. Smoke back. His gun has a longer range than ours. It is a single-shot gun. Hurry up and rush. He has one. The machine gun will follow us and cover me. If I put it on, you will be safer. How about you? I don't have to. I told you to stay. Next time you want to talk, just tell me directly. Don't think I can hear you. Follow me. Where is James? He's dead. Rein, please report. How do we get out of here? I'm thinking of a way, don't worry. They're coming. Take cover. Don't let them know there are only four of us. Distract their attention. Don't shoot randomly. Save your firepower. Spread out. Jun, can you hold on? Okay, come on, follow the gunfire. Come on, [ __ ]. I got something for you. Come on, get it. Come on, little Scout, do you need some shooting lessons? Come on, little Scout. Come on. Domain, they're surrounding us. Take cover. What are you doing? This operation is over. The domain is not over yet. It cannot be considered the end. What else can the domain decide? He is crazy. Yes, I am crazy. Biao, what's wrong with you? Are you okay? Go, don't touch me, it's all penetrated, what should I do? Get the gun to help. Get an extra magazine. Hurry. Danny is moving into position B. Someone has a grenade. It hurts. What's wrong? I'm sorry, hold it back, Bin Zai. Don't kill the Claymore you designed first. You have to deal with another prisoner. Hold it back. I have nothing to do. Hurry up and lock up the prison area. Don't move. Put down the gun. You are under arrest. Do you know what to do next? Don't do this. Stop using your old tricks. You told me that, you idiot. I can make you hate a lot of money.