CHRIS BRENNAN: Hey, my name is Chris Brennan, this episode, Nick Dagan Best is joining me, and history. So hey Nick, thanks for joining me. for having me back. to do another blend of some history and some So let me talk a little bit about the genesis year the planet Pluto is moving into the zodiac the next 20 years all the way until 2044. So, many like over the course of the next two decades and So one of the tools that astrologers have studying the past. And when I was preparing for I went back and did some research on what been like, and my goal in this episode is especially because I couldn't fit it all into extremely interesting correlations between echoes and repetitions, and we'll show how a relevant for us again today as we're at the cusp to predict the future - that's really one of the secrets in some sense, but it's one that you in a number of different techniques. it is the way to learn astrology is just planetary cycles and how they line up against the story out from there. This approach than any astrology book can hope to teach me. like symbolic interpretations of what on its astronomical movement or appearance, but of empiricism by sort of going back, looking at what correlations happened with it, and then repetitions. Like, you really get a much indicating and what the placement is indicating. no end to the amount of work you can do, have done and spend a long time over many you come away with a much deeper knowledge of how and just gave readings to people you met. You any kind of facility with astrology in my opinion. good point, because that's one of the issues long orbital period of 248 years, of more than go and like, you know, study people what Pluto in Aquarius indicates of people around since anyone was born with Pluto in Aquarius. people were wearing white powdered CB: I mean, I'm kind of up for bringing NDB: Yeah -- NDB: -- I can see it working for you, pal, but... NDB: Yeah, I wouldn't mind. They look pretty cool. NDB: They'll look like Mozart, you know, whatever. so this is actually one of the areas in which and study history just because you can't study past century or something like that, which which is the more usual access point for many forced to study history. And yeah, so this episode of my research and notes up to this point. but I have found some very interesting threads, nice foundation for future research with some of NDB: Yeah, I gotta say, you did an amazing and I've already learned a lot just reading a lot of history with astrology, but you have than I do. My forte is more, you know, modern I've already learned a lot and your audience is together today, and I'll do my best to add, you this is a great learning experience all around. it takes more than two centuries for Pluto to gonna do is we're gonna go back and review 12 or 11 including the current one, which will be about 700 BCE or 700 BC, however you wanna call shows the periods we're gonna be talking about. when the first ingress of Pluto began, when Pluto and then the year in which Pluto made its final we have here then over the past nearly 3,000 and then the current one in 2022 and 2023 will be end. Once we've finished going through history, kind of anticipate some of the themes NDB: Yeah. Can't wait. last thing I wanted to mention here is in a a highly eccentric or elliptical orbit than it spends much more time in some signs of example in the current cycles, it spends the which is about 30, 31 years, whereas it spends which is about 12 years. So Aquarius is kind of in at 20 years in the current cycles, so that it's shortest of the medium signs, if that makes sense. of just how long each transit of Pluto through in length. Much older transits took about 25 about 21, is that right? Yeah. NDB: Right. gonna talk about, which is like, 674 to 647 BCE, can see due to the eccentricity of its orbit, it 26 years 200 years later, the next one it spent 24 years down to 22, and then eventually in the NDB: Right. I didn't realize it varied like this. but it's really something. This diagram really just realizing how much it has been shaving CB: Yeah. be interesting to study all the, you know, Pluto is moving. Like, what signs are increasing length and where it's all going. That's something I've looked at, so that's really interesting. just shows - it's like, most of the planetary bit more circular and a little bit more regular, elliptical. So that's why you have some of that certain signs and less time in others. though, because it seems to be indicating that which I think is not the case, at least not as sort of a more skewered ecliptical orbit - not the other planets besides Pluto are, you know, CB: Yeah, I think it's just -- at least as far as Pluto goes, that's a pretty the orbit is relative to any of the other planets. people an idea of why that might be happening perfect geometrical circle that's perfectly round of an oval compared to the perfect circles of the of course, if you put the zodiac around that, then through certain signs in a much shorter duration. Mars on a much smaller scale, where it spends much relatively, for much the same reason because its more time. There are more frequent retrogrades CB: Right. For sure. Okay, so elliptical orbit, some great stuff on actually Astro-Seek where there's different graphs and charts that you can shows like, the periods or like, the duration of So that was kind of helpful when I was doing some out. Other than that, so I wanted to transition talk a little bit about the planet Pluto and understand the astrological symbolism. this quote from Richard Tarnas's book Cosmos largely of outer planet alignments where he zodiac but instead he focused on aspects between summary of the basic keywords and principles of "Pluto is associated with the principle with that which compels, empowers, and intensifies and catastrophic extremes; with the primordial and regenerative, volcanic and cathartic, with the biological processes of birth, sex, upheaval, breakdown, decay, and fertilization; purifying fire; situations of life-and-death potent, and massive. Pluto represents the elemental, geological, instinctual, political, demonic. It is the dark, mysterious, taboo, and surface of things, beneath the ego, societal beneath the surface of the Earth, that is and transformative force. Pluto impels, burns, and religious terms, it is associated with and with all deities of destruction So I wanted to read that because I think it's a Pluto generally as a planet in astrology. the - yeah, I mean, Rick always does a great add to that, I think, is I think Pluto is also you know, whoever's subject to its transits, but them to another. If they're used to, you know, then they find themselves in some alleyway or vice classes, sometimes literally geographically, situated in. It transforms all of that. the late astrologer Alan White, used and makes them big or it takes big things really good -- CB: -- keyword and imagery especially here is and to magnify things. And to take something up into a huge thing, and we'll see that as a NDB: Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. You know, just doing things with atoms and also transistors, about taking big things and making them small. then with Aquarius - so Aquarius is an air it's said to be ruled by the planet Saturn, which is opposite to the hot, fiery sign of Leo, So I was trying to figure out how to summarize whole series on the signs of the zodiac last year, Aerin Fogel and Bear Ryver. And what I decided insights of that episode is I used an AI program episode that we did into some main points. So I think it's kind of useful to contextualize what fitting for our time period where this is first astrologers that can do things like this, and helping to accentuate our research. So "Aquarius, the 11th sign of the zodiac, is discuss the key qualities and characteristics of Capricorn. Aquarius is described as a fixed air and concrete focus of Capricorn to a more Aquarius is associated with the element of air, connections. It is ruled by Saturn, which brings a "The hosts delve into the concept of time forward-thinking nature and its ability to sign that pushes boundaries and challenges social to the opposition with Leo). It is associated with to make the world a better place. However, of over-objectivity and detachment that can come experience and a tendency to idealize the future. communication and storytelling, emphasizing on a collective level. Aquarius is seen as a often with a broad scope and a focus on the bigger the fixed and cold qualities of Aquarius, which dehumanization. However, they also highlight desire to fight for the underdog, rooted in It is a sign that inspires us to look beyond towards a brighter future, but also reminds us present and connected to our fellow humans." that's talking about staying -- CB: Yeah. CB: Yeah. He's like, "Hello, fellow NDB: Yeah. Yeah. Well done. NDB: Yeah. It's getting pretty eerie, that AI. person, a very articulate non-person, anyway. you know, like, for our episode and some -- CB: -- of the main themes, and those were some of component, it's like, one of the things we focused Saturn-ruled sign that's feminine and more almost like, conservative or focused on the past masculine air sign ruled by Saturn where the it becomes more forward-looking into the future think that's a core thing for Aquarius that we're themes having to do with like, communication, like, societies in general and things like that. define the two Saturn-ruled signs relative to Saturnian sign that, you know, sees Cancer and light on the Moon, whereas Aquarius is sort of the individual represented by Leo as opposed to and Cancer. So yeah, Aquarius is very much about relationship in its most -- NDB: -- sort of bare bones, yeah. about the opposition between Leo and Aquarius and quo or that which is central or that which is and therefore being that which is like, outside that which is weird, that which looks avant-garde. a dialectic? - between those two, even though it looks weird at first or eventually sometimes it sets a trend that's catches on, until eventually that becomes interlinking interplay between Aquarius and Leo. astrology mentor, Axel Harvey, who kept his close to Aquarians, they usually have some really rooted in logic. He kept his pencils in the I couldn't argue with that. NDB: That's some classic Aquarius right there. NDB: I don't use pencil. downside. I'll put my MacBook, my iPad NDB: There you go. Yeah. Keep it sharp. preliminaries. Let's jump into going through period of Pluto in Aquarius. So we're gonna go all ago. The first period I want to touch on is So I tried to look through history, and this is very well-recorded history, especially slightly I saw or one of the things that immediately a historian of astrology is that at this time this was the high point of Mesopotamian Neo-Assyrian kings Esarhaddon and Ashuerbanipal is now modern-day Iraq. So this is a period when were set up all around Mesopotamia who would watch actually have a bunch of records of their reports a huge chunk of most of what survives of our from this time due to these vast libraries that Mesopotamian astrology was at its high point of the things that brought up for me is the reason endeavor at that time, and it made me think of read a few years ago titled The Art of Divination he has this paragraph, this introduction, I "Knowledge of the future promises not only the present but also enormous advantages The ability to glimpse what is still to come desirable and jealously guarded quantity. It is an to all those who have it at their disposal." like, a book on divination in ancient Mesopotamia, forms of divination being seen as almost like, the future, and so that's why it became this high of like a secret that was used to dictate and important there, like the kernel of something very theme over and over again in future periods, their attempts to control emerging technologies power over the populace or over other countries NDB: Indeed. And speaking of artificial all those old cuneiform tablets, because I 20% of them, of what's, you know, CB: You know -- CB: It's funny that you mention that, because because I didn't think it would work, especially first came out, these large language models, but some passages of Vettius Valens in ancient Greek, and it translated. It actually did really well, shocked at how well it did at translating these NDB: Yeah. So just imagine what it all those texts in cuneiform. What could we learn CB: Yeah, for sure. people were at it for quite a while, even over the that brief 27-year period or whatever it was. could benefit from having translated for us. that started that I also wanted to note about a discrete thing that may have coincided with project that we know today that we refer to as in Mesopotamia at this time, where Mesopotamian out every day and they would observe the sky and major astronomical events that could be seen other things that were happening in the world the river at the time. They would note the prices would note market prices. And they would also note place at that time. And what's crazy about this is which falls exactly in this Pluto in Aquarius research program persisted from that point for latest Astronomical Diary that's securely dated years later. And so the scholars, when they the historians of science, because they say research program that was ever conducted in because it lasted essentially unbroken for over "That someone in the middle of the eighth century obtained support for it is truly astonishing; and that it was faithfully carried out So this is an example and this will be a astrology being at its high point, Mesopotamian the initiating of scientific research programs during Pluto in Aquarius periods as well. imagine like, 700 years ago, you know, imagine starting an ongoing scientific until right now. It kind of boggles the mind. because that was necessary, because you had to - it was from programs like that they eventually were able to develop accurate calculations for long it took for different planets to repeat their or what have you, and then this eventually led about the world, and then this eventually led to cosmos was structured and understanding that so many subsequent scientific discoveries about quantum mechanics, and everything else really to have accurate data of where the planets have where they will be in the future. And once you but they didn't have that up until that time. seriously, you know, we would have no no horoscopic astrology as we know CB: Exactly. And it's funny that you mentioned where we go from the 7th century BCE to the next Pluto in Aquarius period, NDB: It seems like it was just [yesterday]. NDB: Right. NDB: Yeah. that I wanted to mention about this period that's time period in which natal astrology seems to have the very first birth charts that ever existed, a little bit towards the end of it. And the to April 29th, 410 BCE, and it has Pluto at 24 the video version, is a picture of that chart with what's important about this is the context of part to realize that this is like, a new technology, over 2,000 years now, this idea of birth charts may not have existed. And, like in the in the they were just doing mundane astrology where they eclipses or things like that, and then saying that to like, cities and nations or sometimes to of nations, but they weren't like, casting birth and all of a sudden, there's this new technology insight into the nature of the cosmos, which at the moment that a person is born will tell you future and the life that they will eventually come proposition, but at this point, this is like, premise that's just in its very early stages here. in the previous Pluto cycle, they you know. This planet with this planet next a drought or the crops won't do well or the king's that, whereas, like you're saying, one full Pluto we recognize today - horoscopic astrology. an individual person. So yeah, it's quite a leap. the omen astrology, it's like, we can understand because as we saw in our eclipses in history and December, you know, eclipses really do with the rise and fall of different leaders why they originally started paying attention to you know, nearly 300 years later, and they have have the more advanced things that we use today was just the planet in the signs of the zodiac at development that we're familiar with today. CB: So one of the last things about this that's what happened is there was a shift in terms of Mesopotamia, and there may have been a shift where been more of a state-funded activity because the But during this period, the Persian rulers may astrology for imperial purposes and so there of astrology that took place where all of a for individual, for, you know, people - like, the consulting with the king. The astrologers are sort of shift and some sort of democratization it's not just restricted to royalties people that are able to access this technology. in Aquarius theme as we move forward. CB: Yeah. CB: The last thing is that in the fifth to be 12 signs of exactly 30 degrees each, and technological developments were also part of natal astrology being developed. So there was convergence of several different technologies theme that we're gonna see come up as well. with all these memes about, you know, CB: Yeah. CB: No Ophiuchus? CB: Right. I mean, we'll probably find this time period that's like, ranting about have to - we'll see if the AI can translate that. going that far back. I think it was - wasn't CB: I mean, it's a whole -- CB: -- complicated -- CB: -- discussion about -- CB: -- there's a lot of -- CB: -- constellations, and then the zodiac and then eventually division of the seasons an episode about that again because it's coming NDB: Yep. All right. ahead to the next Pluto in Aquarius period, which and we come to the next Pluto in Aquarius period, in the middle of the second century BCE. So like, the Christian era, basically, at this point. to me at this point as a historian of astrology Hellenistic astrology as a system is thought the middle of the second century BCE, especially as well as these other mysterious texts that were So those early compilations, which created the which is the four-fold system of planets, basically comes together at this time drawing creating something new through synthesizing is super important here that we have, the introduction of the notion of the NDB: Right, right. So okay. So this is the gun a bit in terms of gonna - was it or was it just sort of reading birth charts CB: There's the whole like, debate about that you define the term "horoscope" -- CB: -- because the word has two different meanings, as birth chart, then you could say yeah, they were by 410 BCE. But if you define "horoscope" which is "Ascendant," then they weren't using Ascendant like houses until this period around 150 how you define horoscopic astrology. But -- CB: -- I could definitely say that a chart where you just have the planets in the NDB: Right. earlier Mesopotamian approach at 410 BCE, versus have a birth time and you have the planets in the and the significations for the houses and how different areas of life that the planets manifest. it's amazing that it keeps popping CB: Yeah, and -- track them. It's amazing that it keeps tracking. mysterious, but there's definitely, it surrounding the Library of Alexandria, probably some of the things when it comes to that, but emerge which are important in history. One of them of the subsequent Pluto in Aquarius periods, which is that the earliest known extant paper fragment which falls very nicely in this period. So this fragment of paper that survives from China that was developed or had been developed at least really important because paper, as we'll get for a lot of intellectual activities, you for the creation of libraries, but also it can be commerce, because from paper you would get the subsequent periods. And a number of -- were just showing now looked like it might have navigation and what you can do with navigation CB: Yeah. And as well as other technologies that but the important -- CB: -- point here is there were other things that Like, in Egypt, they had developed papyrus that used for centuries and in other instances in like, skins of dead animals to write -- CB: -- which is parchment. But paper was a that came out of China because paper could be greater quantities. So the history of paper is and crucial for a number of different reasons as the origins of it around the time of this Pluto NDB: Okay. period is - because one of the themes that we're reason the Pluto in Aquarius periods often have regularly, super frequently in very important and this is something that just sort of developed of the ones that's important, where it already with the Greek-speaking West is supposed which is just a little bit before this period. and then what's interesting is that the Silk Road So I suspect what happened - and I don't know documentation from what I was able to find but - have been really important in terms of increased East and other empires in the West. I've understood. I've got some, you but I have yet to sort of really dig into them. it seems to go with logic that, you know, once tradition of trade opens up, you know, between CB: Yeah. Well, and one of them that was really and a really advanced and high level form of traded very heavily with the West and especially 30 BCE forward, silk became this highly which was interesting because it is around the opposition point in the cycle, and silk is over and over again in the future, but that's one was exchanged between China and the West was silk. CB: Hence - yes. The name of the road. CB: All right. So let's move on to the next period years to the next period, which was between 60 century, the mid to late first century AD or CD, Pluto in Aquarius period. So I was looking at this happened. One of them is I found a quote when said that, "Around 60 CE the West had become aware was actually spun by silkworms. The Chinese had once it was out, carefully guarded their So this is from the website think that's - I was trying to trace this down, I just very interesting if that's roughly true that grew on trees or something or had a -- CB: -- almost like, mythological understanding it was developed by worms and that the a monopoly on that. So those are things to keep future about two Pluto cycles later. CB: All right. So that's important. Other ones in Aquarius period, but I wanted to mention it which is the Great Fire in Rome took place city was burned and then later ended up being and I wanted to mention it to you, Nick, because earlier before this event happened. And in the Aries and squaring Uranus. And I thought this was conjunction because this fire is famous because time of Rome, Nero, had started the fire so extravagant palaces. And I thought that was really talked about another famous fire where there was in the 20th century the Reichstag fire, which also as we talked about in the eclipses episode. And were suspicions about whether the Nazis started NDB: Yeah. Yeah. And it's especially interesting Rome. Nero, as it happens, was born with a Sagittarius, all squared by Saturn in Virgo, and days before a solar eclipse. So there's already Plutonian connection in the chart, and there's a And four years after the Great Fire of Rome, and when he took his life, there was also a had been when the Great Fire of Rome was started. NDB: Yeah. NDB: Yeah, yeah yeah. There's so many themes, accuse someone of arson, you know, 2,000 years the horoscope condemns him. NDB: Yeah. Hopefully his people -- NDB: -- don't sue me. NDB: Yeah. the statute of limitations on that one. Roman emperors, let's hope so. that event, for the Great Fire of Rome. There's just taken place like, the day earlier, there with Pluto and Jupiter. Anyway, so that was but that was just a little one that I thought was one or the other major one during this period from 66 to 73 CE, which falls exactly within a Jewish revolt against the Roman Empire. And second Jewish temple in 70 CE, which was like, a then led to the Jewish diaspora, which - so what heavy taxes and were interfering in Jewish discontentment or resentment as well as sporadic "In 70 CE, at the height of the First destroyed by the Roman army led by Titus destruction of the Temple was a cataclysmic and the development of Rabbinic Judaism as the primary So this is really - go ahead. a Uranus-Pluto conjunction, wasn't it? Or at CB: Yeah, Uranus and Pluto were both extra umph to it in the way that's similar to NDB: Right. conjunction during all of the like, unrest or the Uranus-Pluto square that happened NDB: Yeah, there's often a connection the conjunction and the square. Titus, the Roman 39 CE. He had a natal square between Uranus born with the square of Uranus square Pluto, those two planets are virtually in a conjunction timeline going from the square to the conjunction looking at those two planets and those two angles. like, the summary about the dispersal after that the Jewish population of Judea faced persecution in different parts of the world. So I think that's you know, then leads into all subsequent but one of the takeaways or the delineations that can indicate cataclysmic events that cause an trends, to the effect that - to the extent development of Rabbinic Judaism as well as just Jewish communities around the world at that point. just sort of totally reconfigures a massive, massive changes. Very common. that connects to some contemporary events, but cataclysmic events that makes me a little nervous, happen if like, a solar flare, you know, came all of our technology or the internet at sometimes that - whether that's something cataclysmic event, but in some instances either that in some instances for example that impacts event that causes dispersement, basically. a spanner in the works if a solar flare just You know, a lot of things would be undone, and CB: Yeah. It just made me think of like, what's could happen now, especially to the extent that and Pluto sometimes with like, the destruction of that. So that's something to keep an eye open for NDB: Yeah. No matter what, Pluto in Aquarius you know. Something sort of taking over, you know, things of that nature, or indeed just a total, powerfully reconfigures the way society operates. CB: Right. Yeah, exactly. All right. So that about 250 years, and we get to the next Pluto in century in the years between 305 and 329 CE. out to me for this Pluto in Aquarius period beginning of this, Constantine became the emperor and he fought a civil war basically after literally just like, a year into this Pluto him emperor. So Pluto was at zero degrees of was just two days before a solar eclipse in Leo as emperor. I think this might have been one of NDB: I believe so, yeah. Yeah. NDB: Yeah. a really good one. So the reason why Constantine would do once he got fully established about a Edict of Milan, which permanently established the Roman Empire in February of 313 CE. So Aquarius period, Constantine basically legalizes against the law and it had been something that for example, actually I hadn't thought of this Nero, for example, is a Roman Empire who had very extremely as like, a religious group. not so much a proclamation as a bunch of letters. with Licinius, a sometime rival, and there's a so they're meeting to discuss matters of state that they send out to provincial governors sort it's - I mean, I'm not a scholar from this era, you know, it's not like, one emperor to his immediate subjects, but this more sort level. Information sort of spread on the ground different territories. So it's really interesting you know, how these things were usually handled. did mention this one in the eclipses episode where after Jupiter had ingressed into Aquarius where basically during the course of this century, the the Roman Empire became a Christian empire. But point as the Roman Emperor who became Christian was one other event that occurred with Constantine which is the First Council of Nicaea occurred Uranus, and Pluto were all in Aquarius. was the Jupiter return, actually, 12 NDB: Right. in Aquarius, and it came back to Aquarius was an ecumenical council. It was the first of through an assembly representing, you know, what groups. So what this did is it established the beliefs were to be rejected or were outside the which was like a subgroup of Christians that wanted to reject. So Constantine himself was the was directly involved in some of the different So this is very important in setting up; it's not but he also had a major impact in terms of what things were part of the religion versus NDB: Right. And I mean, just on top of that, in November of 324, he founds a new will someday be called Constantinople and that it's just before that First Council of Nicaea that but it's decided that that's where it will CB: Nice. Good point. CB: And then also, this ties in with our the things that's really interesting here and also in Aquarius period that lasts for 305 to 329, is as well as the laws against astrology started Christianity during this period. And it started to had been something that was permissible and the mainstream approaches to Christianity that against astrology because of its emphasis on but the issue of fate versus free will especially. this period and shortly after it started going time. So there was like, a sudden intellectual it started being made illegal to practice. saving if they were never responsible if everything was fated, then, you know, no one to do whatever terrible thing they're, you know, Pluto going into Aquarius certainly seems to have its sort of attitude towards astrology. I think we'll, you know, we'll see that sort of that But yeah, they're gonna - if this transit of Pluto they're gonna have to pry it from my cold, dead CB: Yeah. We'll see. Yeah, so, I think do with - so one of the themes we can draw from changing intellectual trends. CB: Like, thinking about like, an entire towards Christianity, and sometimes within because Firmicus Materus was alive during this at one point but then just like, a decade or two attacking divination and attacking the in individual's lives, like, people's attitudes and I think that's one theme that we might take intellectual shifts that completely transform going from paganism to Christianity, that may be NDB: Yeah. the rulers sometimes, you know, changing - being what's not and sometimes even trying to suppress seen as like, not permissible for some reason. quickly those changes happen because if they I mean, it's monumental. It's, you all seems to happen in these past instances. draw from this, that Pluto in Aquarius period. where we're gonna jump forward again 250 years next Pluto in Aquarius period. So the primary found was really fascinating about this period was the Byzantine emperor Justinian, who is like, this point, the head of the - what, you know, interesting point. In the previous cycle, you NDB: Yes. previous period. Well, by this time, 250 years from that city, Byzantium, which had become the NDB: Right. period begins, the emperor Justinian sends spies 552 CE. So the backdrop to this is that, you between the Roman Empire and China through Persia intermediaries, and the issue at this point was was constantly frequently at war with the Persian around this to like, get rid of the middle man and in order to get the price lower, because it was commodities that existed, basically, for hundreds a couple of monks supposedly, according to the him that they, through their contacts, that they and bring them back to Rome. And he apparently or industrial espionage, and they went and did some of the legends they did it in like, their or something like that. I have no idea how they entire journey, which is kind of miraculous, but happened is that once they brought the silkworms a silk industry was set up in Byzantium, and the all silk production. So I thought this was really like, state-level industrial espionage where each other and in some instances were successful they set up their own monopoly and attempt money and the advantage that it gives them. especially the way it connects to, you know, in the previous Pluto in Aquarius transit. about it just because it was the most expensive And you know, obviously we'll get to some of that, like, microchips for example and the most advanced now that's become like, a subject of dispute Or even AI - I was reading a report recently that stolen or taken or been able to reverse engineer program so much so that the OpenAI company banned anymore. And so there's a lot of like, state- and and I think that's gonna be a major theme in you know, that one from the year 552. a Chinese spy balloon fly over the continent not in Aquarius or not in 2023; there was a brief if the spy balloon coincided with that. But yeah, China's known to have, you know, sort of you know, for instance, Russian and American to recreate them. So they're something I think it's all coming to a different level now. earlier cases because we'll get to another one in the older instances we're talking about like paper or, you know, silkworms, or that then either influences and is transmitted by the West. And so it's interesting in some of coming up again. And again, like, yeah, I'm is important and there are some things we can NDB: Great. Yeah. forward to our next period. CB: Here we go. So we jump forward about 250 and 819 CE to our next Pluto in Aquarius period. a few different things. So one of them that's is that paper is actually transmitted to the paper shop - so paper first started being produced Harun al-Rashid. So what happened then is that and then transmitted to the Arabic and Islamic which then allowed for the proliferation Wikipedia - there's a quote it says, "The and illustrated books within Islamic lands increase in the availability of paper." things that occurs is that the House of Wisdom late eighth or early ninth century in Baghdad, cultural wisdom and translations at the height there was a transmission and translation where research institute and a translation project of these different scientific and other texts and Persian and Sanskrit and other things and repositories of information, but then it science and culture and other things around this with this development of paper as well as just fostering of this intellectual climate but also taking something small and then just taking it to of sort of celebrated intellectual activity. you know, how paper can just, you know, and education and other facets of culture. important during this period in another area emperor in Rome by Pope Leo the III on December this Pluto in Aquarius period. So I found a quote. saying that, "Charlemagne succeeded in uniting and he was the first recognized emperor to rule Empire approximately three centuries earlier." was combining both, you know, the political role and the like, combining of these religious as well this time during the Middle Ages. He also united the foundation for future European kingdoms church's influence in Western Europe. Let's see. the alliance between secular and religious Europe trace their lineage back to him or at least think that's really important because it sets the like some of the Roman Empire stuff that we're involving Christianity and its growth and spread, eventually some of the monarchies in Europe. hopped like, from Pluto return to Pluto return, Charlemagne. You know, as if we were just like, rocks that, you know, with every successive Pluto you know, influential and powerful leaders, you stand out amongst all the other, you know, people you know, whose names are not nearly as celebrated that they all sort of seem to enter the world CB: Yeah. And then eventually, where this latest Pluto in Aquarius periods that we'll NDB: Yeah. the end of monarchy in Europe basically. wants to be Charlemagne who eventually although that particular thing will happen once some definite parallels between Charlemagne's CB: Yeah. All right, the last thing about is the first confirmed reference to gunpowder and this is right in the middle of this Pluto in this would become a very important technology subsequent Pluto in Aquarius periods. But as I for sure confirmed reference to gunpowder in a NDB: That's interesting. For some have been older than that, but okay, that's -- one of the issues, especially researching is especially due to like, the language and stuff, about something whether it's actually referring Chinese alchemists that had been working on it. like, referred to as like, fire medicine, and so experimented with for centuries, I think, up to Aquarius periods are probably relevant in that -- CB: -- but this was the one where it was the for sure a reference to gunpowder by here instead of - and didn't include some of NDB: Okay, fair enough. I'm on board. our next period. All right, so we jump forward NDB: At last we're in four-digit numbers! more comfortable with the history now. territory only a thousand years -- CB: -- ago. Yeah. All right. So during this period, begins being produced in Europe at this point mill in the Iberian Peninsula in Spain basically evolution and like, spread of paper, now it starts Muslim Europe in Spain at this time, having been Pluto in Aquarius period. CB: Go ahead. I was just saying "right." Go ahead. we could say about that, but I'll leave at Now the other thing in this period is it's - surviving chemical formula for gunpowder dates the correct levels at this point where there ingredients in terms of making it explosive and way or in a controlled setting. So what I "The imperial court took great interest in the encouraged as well as disseminated military arrows heavily increased in the 11th century as constructing large gunpowder production and tanners for the military And just after this period, yeah, they sent - in arrows to one garrison and 250,000 to another. So but - I found a reference saying that in 1076, China forbade the sale of saltpeter to foreigners, NDB: Can I just ask, did you have a typo sent 100,000 gunpowder arrows," did would be in our window but 1083 isn't. it down to give -- CB: -- the idea of how much things had developed in Aquarius period that like, this had become a major Aquarius period. And that also the rulers of China that it couldn't be like, exported to foreigners was happening during the Pluto in Aquarius NDB: Sure, sure. Makes sense. Since they came the gunpowder, so hide it. Yeah, I get it. that they learned at that time to be like, like this because this is before guns, this is potential of gunpowder was already recognized so things like that to make them more deadly. CB: All right. So that's where we're at with one. All right. Our next period is the years there were innovations and producing paper which improved the process from what the Europeans So this is the point where paper is really getting they can improve it. So it's like, they've taken and then was transmitted to the Arabic speaking Europe, and now the Europeans are starting to of paper as well as like, its composition most important thing that happened during this solid one historically - is that guns seem to have during this Pluto in Aquarius period. And this ingress into Aquarius. So there's debates about 13th century and from the 1280s onwards, guns unequivocal and well-dated gun is the Xanadu gun, after this period started. There's another hand which is just two years after the Pluto that I wrote is that according to the History of hand cannons attacked a rebel prince camp and of 1288. So this is really crucial, because we also have the development of cannons around sure in use by 13 - like, the 1340s. So their is possible, but for sure guns were in use by this NDB: Right. And, you know, this is probably in that the Mongol hordes tearing around Asia wreaking havoc and, you know, people form a substantial defense against them. important, because reading through some of the one of the things then that was written the destructive power that was suddenly unleashed NDB: Right. of what would happen in war with people's like, by these new weapons was something that was like, And it took war - the technology of war - to a strategies that are being used. It starts changing changing like, the composition of like, power and, to use it to their advantage versus who doesn't. around this point? or it's maybe CB: I'm not sure the exact -- CB: -- dates on that. know there's that famous story as the plague is a place in the Crimea, and they - that, you know, and you know, they take some plague-ridden corpses and I think that's sort of right around the same that's happening as well. NDB: I might be accelerating the CB: Yeah -- CB: Yeah, I can't tell the dates on with this one - guns, super important, and Pluto in Aquarius period, gunpowder itself starts one of the earliest mentions of gunpowder and this is just two decades before this Pluto in NDB: 1280. for saltpeter are published in the West. So this you start seeing the publication of these recipes fully aware of at first gunpowder but then which is the ability to use it for weapons. CB: So, the Mongol Empire peaked around 1294 to period, and guns were possibly passed to the although there's a lot of ambiguity surrounding NDB: Yeah, yeah. important things happened during this period. One that Marco Polo traveled the Silk Road from 1271 then the book about his travels to China and to Polo, was published around the year 1300, which in Aquarius period that lasted from 1286 to 1308. as far as Europe is concerned, one of the first most eastern provinces of China to spend some time have a book published about his travels explaining everything that he experienced, which was a pretty NDB: Yeah. I mean, instantly making the world that route to a tangible, you know, place that people and obviously those that, you know, that this is a exchange that's going on, you know, in the wake been going on for a while and is still blowing up. is like, I don't actually know why Aquarius and if there's like, some base like, birth chart a bunch of placements in Aquarius that's not China itself, per se, if it's something just that's why Aquarius keep coming up, or if it has what societies have more advanced technologies China coming up over and over again especially in terms of its relationship something really important there that I wish I be able to find the answer to or research further. on Chinese history, but I mean, it's dense and working on that myself. But with China in mind, it's worth mentioning that the Declaration of the 1949 at 3:15 PM in Beijing had a three degree degree Aquaruis rising, somewhere in that area. you know, Chinese history prior to the PRC, astrologically speaking, has very very strong CB: What was the data on that again? 3:15 PM in Beijing. This is when the People's the victory against the Kuomintang. NDB: Aquarius rising, 3:15 PM. that's accurate, even if just the Moon was there, NDB: It's pretty documented. It's filmed and CB: Okay. CB: Okay. CB: Sure. Well, I was just gonna say, you know, like, the current -- CB: -- entity of China and the then that - usually what happens is there's So there's probably a lot of earlier charts for Chinese empires that also had Aquarius placements seeing this echo of China and Pluto in Aquarius. when it comes to these ancient cultures that have be it China, Persia, you know, the Ethiopians centuries and millennia, then this is just gold to in and helps us really break down thousands and kind of like, discernible astrological study, I can't think of anywhere on planet Earth where as far as theirs does, and therefore, you know, be - I mean, even today's exercise sort of into ancient history and we only have like, a few but it's a very different ballgame, I believe, going that far back. NDB: It's much better documented. interested in it lately, and actually, this will is on comets in astrology, and the Chinese have comets, which is really interesting and helpful records. And yeah, that's gonna come up in that NDB: Fantastic. Yeah. The last thing I wanted to mention about this that around this time, Roger Bacon's work started And this may have been important and relevant would become relevant again in subsequent Pluto of like, science and like, what science is and NDB: Yeah. Yeah. NDB: Very interesting. which is 1532 through 1553 AD. So this -- CB: A mere 500 years ago. We're actually because this is only two Pluto eras before the closer and closer you get to the present, history starts becoming documented much this period forward to do historical studies and like that. So as a result of that, this period and points to talk about. But let's jump into it. spread of the printing press where the printing it was invented and developed just before this the amount of books being printed in Europe during an idea of what I'm talking about, in the year just before this Pluto in Aquarius period, there Europe around 1500 CE, but then all of a sudden and by roughly the end of this Pluto in Aquarius 20 million books were printed in Europe. And then around 115 million books were printed in Europe. of this century, which is centered on this like, there was just this huge upsurge in the printing much that made it easier to print and publish you wanted to get a copy of a book, all books so you literally had to like, hire a scribe who which was a hugely, you know, time intensive and once they had developed this new technology of you know, hundreds of copies of the same book the proliferation of information. So the primary and the increased availability of printed of knowledge and ideas, impacting to scientific tracts and political pamphlets. I mean, that's it, you know. And really of paper that we've been following all this time. I traced that history of paper up to this point we started to see that earlier with like, in that intellectual renaissance with this like, build these huge libraries. But here all of a which is like, the printing press and all of a to just print like, millions of copies of books, have even in their personal libraries just like, a major difference and major turning point. disaster area behind me. NDB: Yes. NDB: Nicely organized. All right. So other things in this period: a major an astrologer - as an astronomer. So -- CB: Yeah, exactly. I gotta keep my terms straight. Heavenly Spheres in the year 1543, which was period started. And in this book, he argued that than the Earth. So this was a major, major moment which triggered the Copernican Revolution terms of the Scientific Revolution in general. the Scientific Revolution, which would then go initially this was met - well, actually, this - you know, his discovery about the Sun a shift, an epoch changing like, shift in like, place in it that can't really be underestimated. then you know, Tycho Brahe, Kepler, Galileo, his shoulders with what they do, so yeah. you're right, it's absolutely epoch changing. and his book was actually forbidden as a result of death partially due to some of these issues, and up very strongly during this Pluto in Aquarius control books. So one of the quotes that I have is six years into this Pluto in Aquarius period was issued by the Senate of Milan." And let's see, "the Papacy and other cities and states across books could not be printed, read, or owned, and punished. Further measures included checking careful issuing of licenses to publishers." censorship, and another quote from the lasting reality of publishing" from the "as rulers and authorities finally began to NDB: "Fake news." because it starts influencing things and it starts the Protestant Reformation combined with the and cultural and religious changes at this time, weakened the authority of the Catholic Church, debate. So all of these things like, same trends and one of the themes that really comes up to control the flow of information and attempting and one of those things was Copernicus's, being the center of the solar system. much of the accepted wisdom that was CB: Right. So Copernicus was added to their list book was added to the list because of vulgarity, to the list for his political cynicism. So also works that were deemed like, inappropriate not appropriate were also suppressed at this time. wanna bog us down, but - you know, Dante wrote in Aquarius, and he was someone else who got into to me to add him to the list. But yeah, he like, 1300, and then, you know, got into trouble with as he wrote about his, you know, entrance in hell, That's, you know, that's someone else who ages whole Pluto return earlier had come under, you for political reasons, so yeah, it would have CB: Yeah, that's actually, NDB: Yeah, yeah. Guido Bonatti, the astrologer who was active work of medieval astrology and it was super shows up in Dante's Inferno where Dante places NDB: Right, right. With his head buried in the head turned around -- NDB: -- head's turned around, right right right. NDB: Yeah. Good times. So the Church is trying to control books; there's was published in the same year as Copernicus, which they were like, for the first time in you know, opening up the human body and finding anatomical theories that had existed all the way of Galen, who was a medical practitioner that and this provided a more accurate depiction scientific advancements in like, biology NDB: That's really interesting. This is something but I know that a whole Pluto return later in approved by Japanese authorities for translation and interaction for a few hundred years by that it - a book on anatomy - to be translated into reason, they are also unable to conduct, you know, seen as like, one of those like, the earliest from the outside world. So it's interesting prior to Japan finding that same information. the thing about all these periods is like, once with Pluto in Aquarius in one period, you can ones and tracing it back, and you'll often see the successive Pluto in Aquarius periods, and that was this, is like almost in many of these cases, I but instead I like, picked up on a thread that had become major developments, and then went back and found that they kept coming up during those NDB: Right, right. research and how that sometimes works. an amazing job at connecting all these here that you've put together. So, well done. pick up the ball and run with it, because and I know there's a lot of other -- CB: -- other technologies and other things, starting point for others to pick up the research these other little ones. So one of the major ones the Spanish conquest of the Incan Empire, where in Inca Empire in Peru through deceit and brutality, Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire leading to destruction. So I wanted to mention this one echo of that earlier like, the destruction of the Aquarius period, where sometimes you see like, or something like that being a relevant theme. There's the Spanish conquest of the Incan Empire, who march north and, you know, take over much sort of brutal fashion, also during Pluto's Jacques Cartier sails to what will be called New and what will be called Montreal, you know, in the 1534 or 1535. Quebec City was called Stadacona; there. So yeah, there's, you know, even in - I as what the Spanish are doing with the Inca or, lot of this sort of initial early exploration, or exploration of the American continent CB: Got it. Okay. CB: And then one other is by this point when accurately timed, like, birth charts that survive, who was born with -- CB: Pluto in Aquarius and Aquarius there as well. CB: And not just his chart but also some that built on the work of Copernicus but technology and like, using and developing to make scientific and astronomical advancement. a really important recorder of information, and for instance Kepler's gonna use for all his in order to do that - or "borrows" them, shall sort of scientific chronicler who bridges Galileo. He had an island given to him, you he's Aquarius rising and he's got three planets in became so good at what he was doing, he was gonna the King of Denmark wanted so much to keep him in create an observatory, which he did. And this is him this island, transiting Mercury was 18 degrees natal Venus and probably Ascendant within a couple that - and then years later when he would meet his Ascendant. So yeah, sometimes it just takes, major planets for big things to happen. NDB: Yeah. for the video viewers where you see his Ascendant his Venus at 18 Aquarius and his Pluto at 20 some of the quotes I have like, he's talked about science and different history of astronomy. In on Wikipedia, it has a quote that says, "The prepared to revise or reject long-held beliefs and Tycho Brahe was the first modern astronomer." specific role in advancing astronomical of ever-more-accurate measurements was scientific culture in which theory and evidence So this is really crucial where there's a shift developing philosophical principles that then and unfortunately like, one of the reflections I recently like, I've seen some like, cultural others who are like Western chauvinists who stuff like Plato and Aristotle and how advanced thought was really interesting about that when I the early scientific revolution with some of Kepler is one of the things that they - why the was important is that earlier philosophers, these conceptualizations or like - actually, let's to be perfectly circular orbits, and he said that about like, perfect circles and things like that be perfect. But in setting down that principle that actually ended up holding back science and that point, and it's not until you get to these people like Kepler, for example, who Kepler's big circular orbits but instead the orbits of the a huge breakthrough because all of a sudden it planets more accurately because you weren't being that you're letting everything else dictate. Aristotle had this philosophical principle it's only down here on Earth where there can be there cannot be like, change. And so as a result you know, there's an issue there, because things that are moving in our solar system that partially due to his philosophical issue with the air that are coming from the earth and like, an atmospheric phenomenon, which is obviously for centuries and centuries. And it wasn't until you have people like Tycho Brahe and Kepler things like that that shows that there's change people discover that comets for example are, you comes around every 70 something years. So I just that sometimes in the West, ironically, some of philosophical principles and philosophers actually though it also contributed in other ways. way, that it's, you know, sort of partly the foot kind of. Yeah. And you know, Kepler first realizes again, like, you know, the astrology work I that same cycle - yeah, that comes from him, finally punching holes in these sort of stale, otherwise brilliant thinkers and therefore CB: Yeah, and with Kepler, Kepler couldn't have discovery about the planets -- CB: -- having elliptical motions if not for the of the technological innovations and the focus in order to track and record as precisely establishing a new scientific standard for the then Kepler was able to build on subsequent to having this emphasis on Aquarius and having Pluto and advances in technology, and his focus on NDB: Yeah. Absolutely. other things I wanted to mention is in 1537 during Tartaglia who was the first to apply mathematics and Wikipedia for example says this is known in 1537, and that his work was later partially studies on falling bodies. So this is important the earlier stuff with gunpowder that led to influencing mathematics and developing things and you're getting a lot of like, the earlier Pluto in Aquarius periods. Sometimes those outcomes that can influence like, science like that in interesting and unexpected ways. just sort of using mathematics. In some ways, wouldn't you say? I mean, it's, you know -- NDB: -- tracing the trajectory of cannonballs, you - yeah, it's very, very early physics in a way. enough about this, so I was - I don't wanna NDB: Sure. but yeah, you wonder, you know, seeing that if like, some of the work that Newton did with like -- CB: -- gravity and things like that. CB: And yeah. So if some of these NDB: Yeah. I mean, again, I'm not a scholar in strikes me, you know, reading what he was doing in some fashion it appears to me he's doing interpreting that wrong, but I don't think so. two things were just that there were two major this period. One, a German work, and another the earlier gunpowder thing, but I don't that's important here. So I think that kind of NDB: I think so! NDB: On to the powdered wigs. period before the present, the one that occurred ago, which is the period between the year 1777 time before the present. All right. So we've got Really quickly, one of the big developments William Herschel discovers the planet Uranus, where all of a sudden it's not just the seven planets plus the Sun and Moon, that had been but all of a sudden, this is the first time that realized that there's more planets out beyond the both obviously in astronomy but also in astrology. crucial point about this is he discovers a planet he makes his own lenses, so he's really an a telescope he builds for himself relative to of his sister Caroline, by the way, who was always discover Uranus using this telescope, and yeah. CB: Nice. Okay. So that's huge. So major astronomy consistent developments have happened during of course have the American Revolution, which is colonies declared independence from Great Britain, America. And one of the things that is interesting Revolutionary War taking place and like, the government that was controlling it up to that birth chart as having Pluto in Capricorn, because you know, July 4th, 1776. But you know, it's not government of the United States was actually set to have different checks and balances and all of Constitution that's created during the early interesting and important that there's something democracy that has the stamp of Pluto in Aquarius. middle of the Revolutionary War - what that involvement in the war, which of course is really you know, everything else is French money, French Pluto - one thing I was gonna say earlier when we reading Tarnas's, you know, breakdown of Pluto of David and Goliath type scenarios. You know, guy somehow triumphing over big powerful guy, to the American Revolutionary War amongst others. the thing is, like, Pluto's transit through a 20 plus year period during which a lot of things if you think about France during this period, spending money on the American colonists, and by 15 years later, the King's getting his head he spent on the American Revolutionary that certainly contributes to it. You know, if Revolution wouldn't have been as severe; maybe did. So it's an interesting thing to me is to sort where - like you said - where we have a lot think of that era of Pluto being an Aquarius the colonists and it ends with basically Napoleon then yeah, it's a really interesting CB: Because the French Revolution is the this period besides the American Revolution? American Revolution, like you said, Pluto Revolutionary War and then the years leading up to constitution and the election and re-election really interesting because Washington's presidency Aquarius, and Washington of course had the Sun in something like that. And so when he dies in 1799, Pisces, making, you know, Washington's passing this twinge of Pluto involved in it, I'd say. you know, he famously like, could have become also could have gone for more terms, but he ended and that set a precedent then in the United States was eventually, like, put into law -- but that's beside the point. that's one of the questions that is gonna some of these things are being revisited and conventions of like, democracy or term limits are Aquarius period if they're gonna be revived, really important that setting up the basis of Americans take for granted about the government or put into place at this time and that includes and balances between the three -- CB: Right. CB: Are there any other - because that's also, think that's the other thing about the American in the French Revolution that's like, starts going back to Charlemagne and stuff, you have that are in charge of the country because they has been ruling other places for like, hundreds Aquarius period, you have the overthrow of that, countries as a result of hereditary monarchies, democratic elections and things like that. Napoleon, you know, who will sort of rise to power really fully when Pluto's in Pisces. But when he's Napoleon opines that, you know, the French people that they wanted him to gain all this power of stability and then hand that power over, and history would have been much, much different it's interesting to sort of contrast, yeah, what Napoleon, and these two different variables depending on the actions of the central figure. need to expand on explain the French NDB: Sure. but it's going back and forth. CB: So, I think the US part of that is good, in other things we could go into, but with the French familiar with that period - like, the overthrow period of radical political and social change what are some of the things that people need NDB: Okay. Well, yeah, the -- NDB: Before Napoleon. I mean, basically, France has an advisor who's, you know, advising him to you know, do this measure, take this measure, and to have any change. And he convenes the council aristocracy, the clergy, and then everyone else. but they come together to sort of decide on the is called the National Assembly - essentially the has people on his side who don't want this to of gather some weapons to contain the crowds, and the citizens of Paris learn that, you know, weapons and maybe turn them on the people, and in this prison, this bastille prison. And Tea Party-esque moment in the French Revolutionary up and take control of things. Things sort of they want the king and queen a sort of being absolute, and at first the king and queen but then the king and queen try to escape France traitors and the whole thing turns very dark. the different sort of German states and Britain and they're very suspicious of it. And they're CB: Right. and Austria are sending the armies in, and so and more paranoid and more and more suspicious the - in politics today, we have the terms "left of the French Revolution in the National Assembly, people - what we today call left-wing people - where they meet in, and then the more conservative have a left wing and right wing; that's why that that creation of those two factions that even this environment. One thing leads to another, and guillotined. Then the Great Terror has sprung up. each other and thousands - tens of thousands, I up losing their lives in the guillotine because enemies of the state. And things come to -- interesting -- CB: -- for the French Revolution and where it and it's kind of like, an interesting symbol for like, a device or a technology for like, ending really popularized during this period. I think symbol to some extent for Pluto in NDB: Yeah, and ironically, you know, King how to improve it. I think he suggested like, actually like, you know, earlier when he was still helpful suggestions to Joseph Guillotin who was, Guillotin family is horrified about, you know, the CB: Yeah, I just found a date. It says, "On the Guillotin proposed to the National Assembly that of decapitation by means of a simple mechanism." think, in January of 1790. Like two months later, This is the thing is that, you know, first of all indeed, according to Guillotin, was supposed method of taking life, of executing someone. It CB: Because it's quick. but I mean, it's also, you know, quite terrifying, you know, hundreds or thousands of people who are I had another point to make, but yeah. Oh -- NDB: -- yes, Maximilien Robespierre - just... of Terror, right? 1793 to 17 - and then going into the Great Terror periods. There's the Terror and then it gets are taken out. The execution of Robespierre ends on the Committee for Public Safety, which is a whole revolutionary effort, and they're largely who get sent to the guillotine, if not outright obvious sort of visible figure on the Committee got involved in politics like four years earlier, the death penalty. He was a real anti-death Pluto in Aquarius opposite Uranus in Leo, and the thousands of people to the guillotine. So that's the thing about the Pluto transit in Aquarius in 1790s, I think from 1793-94, 1792-94, Uranus in and so you get this really tense standoff between Saturn comes in to make a T-square to the two the Terror and Great Terror periods when the off the rails and, you know, leads to a lot of along and kind of helps straighten things out. was like, a populist movement; it has the effect to create something that's not a monarchy for the sort of like, a citizen's almost like, NDB: Yeah. The Declaration of the Rights of Man. think that in turn inspires the Bill of Rights, these, you know, really grand ideas at first. I put forward in August of 1789, yeah, people like will be, you know, calling for blood, there's part of this whole project. It's amazing how the and, you know, yeah. Makes people crazy, frankly. because they were suspected of NDB: Exactly. of the energy surrounding that period. So then -- there were foreign armies at like, just a sort of a phantom fear, you know. but still, it's a hell of a situation. that earlier, but I meant to draw that point that around Europe are like, watching this, and the they just saw the people like, rise up and basically, and overthrow the monarchy. So all the this, whether that could happen to them as well. the whole thing is that the rise of absolute was run - the French Revolution was just trying had done, you know, during their Civil War and you know, the British a century earlier Parliament and monarchy. And France in some the American Revolution was also inspired by that. French Revolution, but then later in that talked about on the year ahead forecast - that Napoleon comes along and basically reinstitutes and is initially successful in kind of undermining to like, reinstill a monarchy, basically. really understand Napoleon, we have to go back nine-year-old Napoleon Bonaparte from Ajaccio, military school. That journey really begins there foreign country to attend, you know, school, and to speak French. And because he has a facility which is kind of exclusive and elite, and French Revolutionary War because of all the war sent to the guillotine on suspicion of treason, And that period I was talking about in 1793, Uranus is conjunct Napoleon's Leo Sun and Pluto at that point that Napoleon and his entire family they've been exiled from Corsica over some re-enlist in the French army basically just to to survive because no one's employable other than so yeah, one military success leads to another and Italy and then Egypt and so on and so forth. But the Pluto ingress into Aquarius coinciding with and then eventually that Pluto over the next and that's when he becomes a frenchman, you know. also transportative. It takes you from one world about like, sort of making big things small from Corsica and making him, you know, the most CB: Right. CB: So, major takeaway with him, though, is like, correctly in order to essentially like, put him that part of the Pluto in Aquarius theme is like, autocratic leaders attempting to establish like holding elections but then controlling how did he get himself like, into power somebody that was a commander and then being in which he finally became like, an autocrat. Napoleon's career as just a military figure to looking at the transit of Pluto through Aqaruius goes into Pisces in 1798, Napoleon goes to the new Alexander the Great and lead the although he does sort of facilitate the invention Stone is discovered by scholars he brought and he comes back from Egypt and immediately overthrowing the directory, which was corrupt revolutionary democracy, if you will, in France. has fairly recently made its ingress into Pisces. sort of goes back on the democratic principles, that's in part because Pluto has now left Aquarius Pluto was in Aquarius, then these, you know, high regard and thought to be worth preserving. theme though is that sometimes there can still and in this instance in the Pluto in Aquarius there can still be steps back or the monarchical systems can still happen, so that it's NDB: Yeah, exactly. Simple as that. It's, you stage anyway, you know. Napoleon says when he and I am the revolution." So. NDB: That's that. Yeah, I mean, eventually and we're onto the next stage. good for that. The other thing that happened took place during Pluto in Aquarius, right? Revolution, and even later on, you know, related one of the major leaders of the Revolution, kidnapped, sent to prison where he dies in really you know, really important there. In some ways, them all because it's a nation of slaves against and only nation - excuse me - it's the first and formed in a slave uprising. And they're acting about the Declaration of the Rights of Man, and so their uprising. And it's - god, I'm really sorry. major Pluto transit as he's becoming the first which is, you know, the island today we call I think I put his data up here. Toussaint night in Haiti. And he becomes the first non-white 1797. Transiting Pluto in Aquarius is square his Saturn at 29 Leo. It's a short-lived governorship, he'll be captured and taken back to France, you know, founded and on its way essentially. important that there's different revolutions Pluto in Aquarius period. There's also a bunch of I noticed. In 1796, Edward Jenner develops preventative medicine. Also in 1796, Alessandro establishing sustained electrical currents. which is an improvement of the steam engine which transforming manufacturing and driving economic where innovations in textile production with power loom significantly increased efficiency Eli Whitney invents the cotton gin. CB: And as a - go ahead. these are all important, obviously. These are South Carolina, and it really changes the face cotton industry in the south a viable thing, now to pick far more cotton because the cotton it intensifies everything, but it intensifies also this new level of industry that's being created. repercussions of like, technological developments. of - I mean, that's a really extreme example because of the Industrial Revolution and how you know, sustain their lives. But yeah, odious for this reason. I mean, you know, you but it was nothing like the, you know, loads of people out in the cotton circumstances. That doesn't happen until slavery in that number and in that severity. themes that I saw that kept coming which was like, either the unintended consequences like scientists inventing things for the sake ethical implications. And this is something that of gunpowder and guns and things like that, and cause, you know, huge amounts of destruction like alchemists like, exploring different forms form of medicine or something like that. So that's up again later. And that's also a theme in one of this period that I'll get to in just a minute. CB: So there was also a period of urbanization led to the growth of cities, population shifts, was going on. And there was the major, major of the most fascinating ones to me, because it just paper but also silk. CB: So the Montgolfier brothers and this was like, a profession that of materials and their properties. And -- been raised in it. So, you know, it wasn't their own; this was something that had been CB: Right. And so at one point they start seeing phenomenon in the 1770s when they noticed that objects. So they start experimenting with watching as they inflated and rose. And one of is that they experimented with different studied the effects of heat and the lifting eventually culminated in 1783 with their NDB: Right. There were a few flights. The first and a chicken in the basket just to be sure. and dogs in space before people go in space. NDB: It's a great punchline, yeah. like, walk into a -- CB: -- hot air balloon. tested it with a person tethered and then a person even Thomas Jefferson witnessed this, because you know, the Peace of Versailles that ends the the end of the American Revolutionary War demonstrations. Definitely Benjamin Franklin wrote as well, but I'm less sort of certain of that. The deciding to use hot air, they had experimented hydrogen or something else. I think hydrogen. They But then there was another scientist named Jacques trying to develop a balloon with using a successful demonstration in 1783 a little Jacques Charles' hydrogen balloon that was used Uranus is the god of the sky. It was a hydrogen military for reconnaissance work in the Battle of is at its peak. The French military win this and a hot air balloon, hydrogen-filled balloon reconnaissance work for the military and it subsequent battles in these wars as well. So yeah, opposition that you get in 1794. NDB: In the middle of it all. Yeah. the Montgolfier brothers - their historic capturing the public imagination and sparking air travel. And in terms of the legacy and impact, technology, and culture, and their hot air allowing scientists to study the atmosphere and So this is huge and it set the foundation industry, and I think that's gonna be a recurring flight and things surrounding flight, where now space flight, basically. But there's something reoccurring phenomenon, and it's just weird thread of paper that had gone back centuries. that was so striking to me. And you're amazing the way that all comes together. that we'll have to pay attention to with this technologies and countries and other things Aquarius periods and then combining those new ways that are appropriate for our own era NDB: Yeah. mention about this Pluto in Aquarius period - and had found that she mentioned on the last year a year ago - where she pointed out that the writer Pluto in Aquarius conjunct the Midheaven in her and some of the metaphors underlying it are super that I think are gonna be very illustrative. So -- CB: -- let me -- the first work of science fiction. the things that's interesting is once you you start having birth times for people, so that's her life is the fact that we have a relatively Cancer rising and the Midheaven at 27 degrees of Pluto in Aquarius directly conjunct the Midheaven, and part of the core theme underlying it is the of creating life itself. However, the result but instead a grotesque and hideous creature that So here's... Ironically, I asked the AI, you know, are coming up now, but I asked the AI to write the primary things that are important. So, fascination with life and death, the scientist and he becomes consumed with the idea of creating the scientist Victor stitches together body parts scientific process. Horrified by its appearance, confused. Forced to fend for itself, the creature emotions through stolen books and observations. monstrous appearance triggers fear and rejection creature seeks vengeance on Victor for abandoning in the deaths of Victor's younger brother William grief-stricken, Victor attempts to atone by hoping to quell his loneliness. However, horrified second creature before it is complete. Enraged, The story culminates in the Arctic, where becomes consumed by his own creation, and both of caution about the dangers of unchecked ambition So this is really interesting, and some of the main themes that are explored in the novel are Frankenstein's story serves as a cautionary tale when pursued without ethical considerations. And theme. Let's see. Two, responsibility and responsibility for his creation forces him to to his ultimate demise. And the finally, the interesting that Mary Shelley was born towards Scientific Revolution, and part of the focus here advancements as well as the potential dangers boundaries of knowledge in the attempt to create there with today and now we're starting to see, the very cusp of like, the emergence of AI think some of those parallels are hard to ignore. That Pluto on her Midheaven. You know, her mother after giving birth to her. Both of Mary's parents in their own right. Her father's William Godwin, writer, and her mother Mary Wollstonecraft is, and writes a really important revolutionary text amazing kind of pedigree. And both her parents are in England, Mary Wollstonecraft on the 27th of in Sagittarius square Uranus in Pisces. And this conjunct Uranus in Virgo on both of their Uranus 1816, you know, she's married to Percy Shelley the poet. And this whole era in 1816 when she writes a game along with the other writers while they're in Sagittarius is squaring Pluto in Pisces, kind natal Pluto-Uranus squares. So there's a really between these, you know, older intellectuals - her circle of very talented poet friends. really important or I thought was really date for when she first came up with was actually around 23 degrees of Aquarius, Aquarius basically had recently stationed near up with this idea, basically. CB: Yeah. So I thought that was pretty cool. creating an artificial life, having it that's good for this period, and that's pretty anything else we had meant to mention? Shelley. Shortly before she had the dream of who died soon after, so I think -- NDB: -- some of that desire to, you know, life or creating life in that way CB: Yeah. No, I mean, she had with that she had an incredibly - and other things, too, but she had a very incredibly difficult and a really recurring theme for her -- CB: So her chart would make for an interesting NDB: Yeah. Right down to the fact that you know. Like, it kind of starts there you know, her husband Percy Shelley die, wandering off to Greece and gets killed CB: Yeah. she knows kind of meets a tragic end. about what she described there, even though there's something eerily prescient about her in that time period that suddenly become some of the underlying themes that came with it. same time that she is writing Frankenstein, Byron with the mother or anything, but a daughter of his a really important mathematician who contributes So I'll just throw - there's all kinds of like, that spill over into contemporary science and art. present and to the future. So we are now Pluto in Aquarius period, and Pluto first first moved into Aquarius in March, and it went retrograded back into Capricorn, and now later again. So I forgot to give the data for this - 2024. We started at what? Like, 2:45 or something? CB: PM in Denver, Colorado. And later this month Aquarius. It's gonna retrograde back out this this year in November of 2024, Pluto's gonna move for the next 20 years all the way until 2044. So so I'd like to spend this last section summarizing from some of the past ones, and then see if we can from history are becoming or will become relevant So things that I wrote down in notes of summaries: in order to have power and control. In addition and information has. So these are all previous examples that I think are clearly NDB: Oh, yeah, no question about it. let's see - so the another one that was important under the control of centralized authorities. How society in different ways. So we saw that with that with things like, how the printing press and things during the Reformation and started causing NDB: Sure. Or inventions like the slavery on a scale the world had not quite seen. is technological transfer from foreign or which has a profound transformative impact on you know, a technology that's already developed spending centuries developing gunpowder before silk and silkworms and how that had been refined eventually transmitted or stolen by the West. of what it means to be foreign or alien in general the emergence of artificial intelligence and which is essentially what - if people, if creating artificial intelligence or artificial is like, creating another sentient species maybe even alien life being found, even in system or perhaps beyond. Even the recognition of give them credit for as new AI technologies how they communicate - there's something about and alien technology and the exposure to of Pluto in Aquarius, and it's something I'm past year that are very suggestive, I think. if AI taught us how to communicate with dolphins CB: Yeah. just, you know, there's all kinds of things are probably on the verge of becoming real. about recently, which is just like, in different collectively, it's like animals have - reflect different ways, but humans don't often often fully think about the implications of of the primary barriers is communication. But one of the things that's happening this year is a probe I think to Europa - one of Jupiter's then they're gonna send a probe beneath the ice and that's supposed to land I think in 2030. is not really simple, but it's not at the scale but if we during the next 20 years discovered of life existed somewhere other than Earth, that our conceptualization of ourselves, of humanity, would be similar to and sort of approaching what his book and showing that we weren't at the form of life would be the modern equivalent of show that human life is not the center but that there's life elsewhere as well and it us away from the center of the universe many that's revolving around something larger. and big things small, you know. Finding microbial revolutionary as what Copernicus unleashed on CB: Sure. in the room also is who knows? I mean, I don't more sort of serious discussion of unidentified and that whole conversation has become - well, it's, you know, it's out there; there's, you know, cameras and everything. So who knows what emerges fit the, you know, the sort of the list that we've transit of Pluto in Aquarius could reflect in, CB: Yeah, for sure. And I don't know about some of that stuff seriously or not or if it's having any other signs of, you know, actual there besides our own would also have like, NDB: Yeah. science and a number of other things - religion. we'll have to see what happens. CB: Other themes - one of the ones that was role of China, and China and technological kept coming up over and over again, and we've it's really notable to me that just in the past a global superpower again. And it's really notable like, right before Pluto goes into Aquarius, so the increasing tensions between like, world whether there'll be conflict and as well as like that going back and forth between the two. Austin that Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin both charts. So when we get to 2025, yeah, you know, and it happens the same time as the Saturn-Neptune you know, when Uranus goes into Pluto good and happening, we'll definitely hit a new chapter in Saturn-Neptune has always been very promising for both leaders, so, you know. And we talked already People's Republic of China and how it was declared in Aquarius. So that Pluto transit could be, you know, the political structure in China. You know. NDB: Right in the middle of the chart, yeah. done that episode previously - one of the podcast about like, Uranus return NDB: Right. that's coincided with - it's only happened three American Revolutionary War, the second time was II. So that's one of the issues, you know, that's Gemini in 2025 and is an additional cycle that's gonna have another major conflict or another major have happened so far in its history when Urnaus and that's gonna be happening at the same time of actually interesting about that is just that NDB: Yes. off and on increasingly close over the course of accelerate a lot of the technological developments and other things like that over the course of just by Pluto in Aquarius. That's gonna be NDB: Yeah, no, absolutely. And that's a feature way, you know, the last few times that Uranus during the Revolutionary War, Uranus was in ingress came a little too late for there to be a before long Uranus zipped through Cancer, zipped So that trine with Pluto from Uranus in Gemini is transits through Gemini and the wars that they've it comes to that transit of Uranus through Gemini major conflicts is in all three instances, they new country in a way, certainly redefining itself War created the country. The Civil War centralized War turned this, you know, reluctant sort of into a global superpower, virtually against There's something about the country's Uranus in Gemini, except this time, like in the while the mood for sort of popular power - for revolt against sort of authority or dictatorial CB: Yeah. And one of the things about that with the Uranus-Pluto trine is that the US has Uranus and that's actually roughly where I think Uranus and Pluto - starts going exact when Uranus gets around to eight degrees of Aquarius. So that that it's gonna be happening at the most intense NDB: Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. other summary points. So new technologies like and a diffusion of new ideas. So I think AI is although there may be additional things involving and consumed in terms of innovations in the form times to whatever the equivalent to that is in our about the form factor and the way that information to this time period. see that happening pretty easily. some new level, and it's gonna have a completely technological innovation, and we can for sure but there's some parts of where that's gonna go aren't like, futurists - aren't even anticipating that's gonna change society soon and on all the NDB: Yeah, exactly. NDB: I've been saying to people - sorry to hundred years from now, people will look back Not unlike that we think of 1919 or 1920 being where it's really like, a very visible demarcation it seems, you know, like it belongs to another CB: That's a good point in a number of different saw recently where somebody said that in terms be this demarcating line in history that starts in every field, is starting to use AI in with things but also in order to generate content as a result of that, there's gonna be like, this there's gonna be a fine line between things that influenced by that innovation versus things that been only produced by humans. CB: It was an interesting thing to think about. will be taken, you know, in some kind wedding photos with, you know, the parents and the in front of - I don't, you know, who knows what - backdrop, I mean, what have you. Yeah. It's culturally, as well as everything else. things - governments trying to control the entities attempting to control or suppress although often failing eventually, although being attempts to control the flow of information, Church's list of prohibited books. So there institutionalized censorship attempts or attempts methods that ultimately fail because the powerful nature of the world. So thinking back to like, center of the solar system and how that was you know, it couldn't be suppressed forever pointed to a property of nature that was real. but I think also of things like astrology and forecast episodes lately about we've been in this popularity of astrology over the past several period of suppression again at some point before you know, it couldn't last forever because of the of nature and that the validation of that is sort any current or future attempts to suppress it. So I mean, that's something I could imagine all the more important for us to do the work that becomes us, because somewhere down the road, it's once the smoke clears, so to speak, and it's of nature and therefore there's truth there. and it can only be suppressed for so long, so. even if someone does, you know, sort of put the CB: Yeah. And what we've seen also is that in previous cycles don't come to full maturation a foundation for certain things that aren't fully next level until the next cycle, but it's at least legacy that lives on and grows and evolves. time unlike the 1700s, we're not gonna have Uranus Pluto opposite Uranus in Pisces-Virgo. So it's experience, and that'll be the culmination, but Pluto in Aquarius has in store for us. themes - government and major entities attempting mentioned, you know, some of the things that like East and West, that are trying to steal AI like that. Another one tied in with that is a monopoly on technology and the power advantage We've seen that with gunpowder, guns, cannons, things like computer chips, micro processors, that, and that will, you know, perhaps be the the next 20 years is that whoever controls and could have just like, an immense amount of power countries around the world at the same time. refined to create new weapons of war - so how other humans and advancements or innovations in thinking about things like drones, robots, warfare, all of which may be taken to new and that happening with many of those, but I'm sure, things in terms of that - those technologies maturation over the course of the next 20 years. already a thing. You know, even just on Twitter, you know, you see drone footage of either they're Russian drones firing on Ukrainian soldiers. this whole new level. I mean, I remember, you Gulf War, it seemed miraculous that we were the overthrow of the Panamanian dictator in not Noriega - he was Nicaragua. I forget taken down on live TV, which was during which is something else that sort of comes into the spreading of information and new ways of in 2025 of all these things coming together, not but this Saturn-Neptune conjunction, which you know, heavy duty moment of clarity seeing things for the way they really are. I would use for a Saturn-Neptune conjunction. all the subterfuge that's going on, but there CB: Okay. CB: Yeah. And you know, with this, the there's gonna be questions like, you know, one once artificial intelligence is developed and autonomous machines should they be given the okay for example, is gonna be like, one of the major course of the next 20 years in terms of how that governments, you know, employ those technologies. that's, you know, that kind of super soldier, kind of thing that seems to be developing. gonna become real, like not science fiction, but are being debated in terms of the ethical next one, which is the experience of scientists but then having their creation used to destroy you know, gunpowder and things like that in the with Frankenstein and some of the things that are ethical implications of scientific advancements as that come with pushing the boundaries of coming up was doing dangerous or risky things in which is kind of an Aquarius thing and kind of a just out of curiosity or out of a love of science about the implications. So I mentioned guns, but riskiness of like, sending a human up into the air but then some of the things that sometimes culminating eventually not too long other successive wars where airplanes become NDB: Yeah, I mean, we were talking about manned flight in September of 1783, and it that the first person was killed in a even before it found its military application. So technologies do, you know, take victims with them. of Pluto in Aquarius was the development of the theme throughout, and I think there's gonna be there were some successive developments in method was and how it should be carried out and I'll be curious if there are some major NDB: Yeah. democracy and autocracy, and a theme that's but also came up in the past was like, autocratic the illusion of democracy, holding elections but issue that's happening like, this year for example democratic votes that are supposed to take place, rulers in charge, those, you know, supposedly to be actually, you know, fair and free elections. that we've seen in the past few years, it's coming into prominence in different countries and being removed entirely. It's a little startling of the Pluto in Aquarius sort of era that we're and if we'll see things that are similar to there was this tension and this dragging back autocracy that at times turned like, violent. I would introduce into this is "class struggle," where it really was just one specific social or that at least that the rebelling was serving. a kind of class war. You remember I was talking the clergy, and the people. Well, that third fairly recently to refer to the developing world idea comes from the idea of the third the masses, the ones who ultimately did rise to the guillotine. So there is an element, I in Aquarius because it really is about the sort of or if you will, the third world. sometimes the masses rising up and at other suppress the masses from rising up. counter-revolution, you know, the Terror, and then Revolution, the Russian Revolution, they had these fought between these two factions or several at different stages of the struggle, if you will. that cause an irreversible shift in intellectual major example was the destruction of the Second little bit in terms of what some modern scenarios we just had covid a few years ago and seeing primordial disaster-type scenarios that we kind that are things of the past, finding out that relevant and can, you know, have this huge impact levels - I think that was a big eye opener that, so it might be a good idea to think about some type situation could look like. covid broke out with the, you know, Saturn, Pluto, and then Mars coming along as you know, those were the transits that the masses. And so with Pluto going into something of that nature. I think if covid taught for anything more serious than covid to hit CB: Yeah, for sure. more serious, it would be devastating. sign could be relevant there, since that was very this like, airborne disease or like, pathogen or So that's relevant. Moving on - flight seemed with the last one with the first human flight period. So during this one, themes like space and having that become more and more increasingly we're already heading in that direction, but becoming more common as well. I saw some things thought were very interesting about like, planes NDB: Drones. There are drones you can fly. sit in and you can fly and you don't need a fly it, you know, to the grocery store or to your CB: Right. fly, and they seem to be coming into the market. that combined with not just Pluto in Aquarius which is also like a transportation-type sign, NDB: Sure. Yeah. coming up recently that may be relevant from with globalization, where being in an increasingly same time we can see countries pulling back from some things back home. Because in the 1990s, there internationally where part of the belief in like, trade was set up with places like China and some that it would open up and make things more democracy wasn't as common. But then it turned especially after covid, some countries saw the on this whole easily flowing like, international the production of certain things back to their own building a - what is it? A processor plant in other countries that are doing similar things, so with Pluto going into Aquarius is maybe some of interconnected world order, even though inevitable that we're moving towards a more, you NDB: Yeah, I mean, even before covid, every United States further and further away from this receding, and you know, I dare say if it weren't it would've receded all the more, but you know, more, you know, a little more involved in foreign yeah, the trend right now seems to be, you least through, you know, sort of weaning off the on both parties. The United States no longer order was being kept in place because of the Cold The United States used its naval fleet to patrol and in return, everyone kind of agreed not to go long while, but the United States is no longer that. And even if they wanted to at this point, So that era is largely over already, you know. is something that gets talked about sometimes, but maybe symbolically there's a way that makes multi-polar world where there's like, other major of the United States that controls or everything Aquarius is a much more social sign where things power. So maybe part of Pluto in Aquarius is that's really the core ultimately symbolically or the American Revolution was a distributing of in the hands of like, a singular individual. you know, that's easily the way that the Pltuo in time, a lot of the other global superpowers, you know, survive the century, really. You demographic structures that, you know, will be tomorrow's global superpowers could easily be, you or Brazil. You know, not necessarily Russia directions by the time this transit is over. last few notes I wrote was we've come as far as and the power of the exchange of information and how that mutual exchange and back and and technological and scientific breakthroughs. and those breakthroughs would not have happened. social air sign, and I think there's something you know, maybe see a contraction of that but what happens when we become even more hyper other means like that. You know, can our progress expand even faster? CB: All right. As well as just being an insight done as well as a species because of our social a symbol. All right. Pluto is gonna oppose the generation were born - like, the Baby Boomers in very much in power in different, you know, parts obviously over the next 20 years between now Pluto in Leo will be almost a century old. So we generation essentially, but also the dying off over various structures and levels of society. So point that I have, which isn't a great conclusion mentioned on the forecast is just that in the that humans had never done before -- CB: -- which caused human chess masters in turn to of the machines. So perhaps part of this era may be an incredibly crucial point, because the civilization - especially one that's smarter than them. So maybe they think about or they perceive and therefore they're able to see things that we an artificial or an alien intelligence if or when do things and it can think about and perceive and some of the way that it perceives the be useful to humans and we may be able to gain NDB: Yeah, yeah. I mean, it CB: Yeah. All right. Well, that was actually my from some of this research. Are there any other take from what we've learned from going through the past that are obviously relevant to anticipate or anything about the future? I think we did a nice job. Anything I had to say, yeah, just to remind everyone that what does long trine to Uranus in Gemini that it's gonna That changes the kind of experience it'll be. and here is a diagram actually from Archetypal kind of shows that. But the Uranus-Pluto start going exact over the next several years period - largely the period that Uranus is NDB: Yeah. Yeah. Although, you know, right from even in 2025, right? I mean. this year in 2024, they're gonna get NDB: Right. Exactly. Yeah. gonna start moving very quickly, like, very fast, but also with the other Pluto in Aquarius themes during the course of this episode. CB: So you know, "may you live in a Chinese proverb? I think actually -- proverb. It is fitting. There's another line that who was one of the Chinese leaders - like, aside French Revolution would be, and he said, "Too soon talking about the recent uprising in Paris four that remark to mean he was talking about like, the "too soon to tell" what the effect of that French sort of mistake in communication that created the French Revolution, the American Revolution the ultimate effect of these social experiments. sort of bring those answers a lot closer to home yeah, definitely may we live in interesting CB: Yeah. I think we're definitely gonna see the as well as the lows of technological process society and culture and religion and politics and Aquarius placements, I am primarily excited about And I sort of marvel sometimes at just the ways interesting to do things that you couldn't that may be, you know, allow you or enable you and I'm excited to see some of that while also But I think it should be a really interesting and excited to study it as an astrologer and time as we see this new era in human history because we can really feel that we're right on think it will be at the very least interesting to NDB: Yeah. Amen. that's it for this episode then, Nick. Thanks for helping me to get some of this research out. thing in presentation primarily just because for the year ahead forecast, couldn't obviously because Austin would have murdered me. And I think bit too much more in than he was comfortable or to get some of this other research out there, and the threads that we found and then follow them to seen, and I'm sure there's much more to be found the current era of history that we're moving into will like, leave comments on the YouTube video for know if you find other discoveries, and I look NDB: Yeah, it'll be interesting. You know, from now when Pluto's going into Pisces this episode and have a laugh or maybe be knows? But yeah. Hopefully we make it. hopefully there's like, an AI representation of went 20 years ago and can appreciate it physical form. But speaking of current physical working on, and what do you have going on? files from my research database, so they can NickDaganBestAstrologer.com, so. Yeah, if you few months ago, there's a lot more. There's there's a whole file of deaths. There's another a bunch of biographical ones up over the next few been working hard on this, and I hope my fellow And besides that, as always, I'm doing astrology booking at NickDaganBestAstrologer.com under looking for an astrologer for all your astrology your general chart readings, your burning look forward to hearing from all your viewers. NDB: NickDaganBestAstrologer.com. in the description below this episode on YouTube for myself, my main things are if you wanna study what my approach to astrology is, I teach a course through my website and through my course site wanna support this work and support this research that support The Astrology Podcast through my page extended excursions where I go through and do all people for free. So if you'd like to support content like early access to new episodes, then support me through Patreon. Otherwise -- Livestream - Patrick Watson and I so YouTube.com/TheAstrologyLivestream. Every organized livestreams than we were doing in 2023. of Napoleon's life. Before that, we did a really lot of really exciting things coming up, so yeah, Livestream on YouTube, and we also have a Patreon Patreon. So yeah - come check that out as well. have a website - TheAstrologyLivestream.com. to join and to watch that curiously titled NDB: It's Watson's fault, man! CB: Okay. No, it's a good name. I think the and I give you permission - you have my blessings. CB: All right. Well, I think that's it. Thanks NDB: Thank you! Thank you as always, Chris. or listening to this episode of The Astrology If you appreciate the work I'm doing here on support it, then consider becoming a patron you'll get access to some great subscriber episodes, the ability to attend the live our monthly Auspicious Elections Podcast, a whole exclusive podcast series called The your name listed in the credits. You can find out A shout out to our sponsor for this the number one astrology app for self-discovery, the Apple App Store or on Google Play, or Special thanks to all the patrons that episode of the podcast through our page on the patrons on our Producers tier, including Angelic Nambo, Issa Sabah, Jake Otero, If you're looking for a reliable astrologer then we have a new list of astrologers on the Most of the astrologers specialize in birth chart rectification, electional astrology, horary at TheAstrologyPodcast.com/Consultations. recommend here on the podcast is called Solar PC at Alabe.com. Use the promo code 'AP15' to a software program called Astro Gold for Mac OS, and it includes both modern and traditional at AstroGold.io, and you can use the promo If you'd like to learn more about my approach my book titled Hellenistic Astrology: The Study philosophy, and techniques of ancient up through intermediate and advanced If you're really looking to expand your studies of Astrology Course, which is an online course on basic concepts up through intermediate and There's over a hundred hours of video lectures, by the time you finish the course, you will have as well as make predictions. You can find out more And finally, thanks to our sponsors, which is a quarterly astrology magazine MountainAstrologer.com. And the Northwest both in person and online May 23-27, 2024. You