Hi I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Now today we are going to be looking at the We're going to be delving into what makes so get ready to find out everything you could Visually, it is a very beautiful and elegant Seemingly very calm and almost tranquil on the surface. From an outsider's perspective, it's clear of Love. Go beneath the cloud layer, and you'll Scorching temperatures, volcanism and a crushing surface. But let's step back a bit and see where Venus is the 2nd planet from the Sun and is Its average orbital radius around the Sun It doesn't vary much at all from this mean the least eccentric orbit, orbiting nearly At Venus' closest approach to us, it is 41 million kms away. Interestingly though, this is not when it's to us, we only see the night side as it's It is still visible though as the sunlight It's actually brightest when it's a thinner it is the brightest object in the night sky As such, Venus is a commonly misreported &quot;unidentified flying object&quot;. U.S. President Jimmy Carter reported having was probably Venus. Countless other people have mistaken Venus brightness. I recently had the pleasure of looking at crescent shape of it was very visible. With Venus orbiting between us and the Sun, it may make you wonder if Venus ever eclipses the Sun from our viewpoint on Earth, and the Transits happen in pairs, the pairs being once every 100 or so years. The last transit we had was in 2012, but if one won't be until 2117. The reason for this rarity is because the same as Earth's. Also, Venus only catches up with Earth every These two things combined ensure that although means we'll probably only ever have the All the planets orbit anticlockwise around But unlike all the other planets it rotates rotation. Not only that, but it has an extremely slow - slower than any other planet. This makes a sidereal day longer than a Venusian A sidereal day, if you remember from the Mercury Because of this retrograde rotation though, is considerably shorter, at 117 Earth days. This means you'd only experience just less To give some perspective as to how slowly rotating at 6.5km/h! This slow rotation makes it the second most the Sun. It is unclear why Venus rotates backwards could be due to a big impact with another with the Sun, or tidal effects on the Venusian Its mass and size are very similar to our as our sister or twin planet. Venus is one of the four inner terrestrial Its diameter is slightly smaller than Earth's is 5.243 g/cm3 compared to our 5.514 g/cm3. This means the gravity on Venus is only a being 8.87 m/s2, or 0.9g. But this is where the similarities end. On the surface of Venus, the atmosphere's That's an equivalent of 1km under Earth's The reason for this is because the density than Earth's. And fit that amount of gas into a space slightly you can understand why it's so densely packed. The atmosphere consists mainly of CO2 gas, you're left with the strongest greenhouse 462c at the surface on average. This makes the surface temperature greater closest planet to the sun and Venus only gets The difference is that Mercury doesn't have Venus certainly does. This means at night time and even at the poles, Venus really is cooking, it absorbs so much and doesn't let much escape. With an axial tilt of only 3 degrees, it also also very minimal. Wind speeds aren't very high on Venus's an hour, but because of the thickness of the on obstructions, moving small rocks and dust On the other hand, wind speed at the cloud These winds at the cloud tops circle the planet makes the planet look like its rotating a The cloud layer itself sits above the thick and sulphuric acid droplets. Sulphuric acid, just as a side note, is highly the hellish nature of Venus, although it does The clouds on Venus are highly reflective, and because they cover the entire planet, from space. These clouds are also capable of producing as common. Recently it has been discovered that Venus like on Saturn. Venus is the image on the left, and Saturn They are shaped quite differently, and Venus every single black dot in the Saturn image in the centre. The vortex on Venus is at an altitude of 59km Which leads on to an interesting point about At about 50km up, the air pressure and temperature Even the gravity would feel very much like The only problem with a person being there But if you were to have an airtight plane like. I want to head back down to the surface of photos of the surface thanks to the pioneering 80s. The probe Venera 7 in 1970 was the first probe data, the previous attempts resulted in the Venera 7 probably fell over on impact though, at the surface of 475 degrees. Venera 8 confirmed that at the surface the range, as the cloud layers end at quite a cameras in future missions. Venera 9 sent back the first ever image of Venera 10, 13 and 14 over the course of 6 colour, as well as a lot of data regarding Since then, there have been a number of probes Using radar, they were able to see through in very high definition. The surface of Venus is dotted with a lot It has 167 volcanos which are over 100km in The only complex this size on Earth is the This doesn't mean Venus is more volcanically fact that Venus has a much older crust than Earth has plate tectonics releasing heat and being 100 million years) but Venus doesn't have any plate tectonics. Instead its crust is estimated to be about event likely occurred. The theory is that the mantel under the crust the crust, covering most of the surface with An incredible 80% of Venus' surface is made hundreds of thousands of volcanos in one form There are 900 impact craters also to be found diameter. This is because anything smaller than 50m it even hit the surface. And finally let's have a look at the magnetosphere. Venus doesn't have its own magnetic field, discovered as Venus' composition is similar But without more data, it's hard to say As a result of this, solar and cosmic radiation of the planet, producing lightning and an Solar wind also strips off the low density that Venus has a tail, similar to a comet. Under certain conditions, this tail can tickle Unfortunately this tail isn't visible with Sadly, we''ve come to the end of the video. But I'd just like to say thank you so much for watching this far. And if you enjoyed it, I have a lot of other videos about our other planets which may be of interest to you as well. So be sure to check those out! And if you find space generally interesting, please subscribe! As this channel is dedicate just to that. Thanks again for watching and see you next time.