At the end of November 2017, it went Islamic State, the terror organization the last cities it controlled in the How did this group succeed, in a matter of months, to control at its peak a territory as big as the United Kingdom? Let's look at a map and trace the history of the global war against the Islamic State. Syria and Iraq are located in the Middle East between two great rivals from ethnic and religious Saudi Arabia and Iran Saudi Arabia is part of the Arab world while Iran is predominantly Persian and Shiite. In Iraq, Saddam Hussein, who was Sunni, ruled the country since 1979. In Syria, Bashar al-Assad, who like 13 percent of the population, is Alawite -- a branch of Shia Islam -- succeeded his father as president in 2000. Finally, both countries have an ethnic Kurdish minority who are part of a population of about 35 million people Looking at resources in the region, Iraq at the time had a third largest known oil reserves in the world. 7 main deposits of which 2 are currently being drilled. Saddam Hussein nationalized Iraqi oil in by national companies. In 2003, the United States, under the and weapons of mass destruction, formed an international coalition and overthrew the Iraqi government in three weeks. They then put in place a provisional authority which was in charge of suppressing everything related to Saddam Hussein. First, they banned the Baath Party which had 1.5 million members and laid off 200,000 public sector employees. Forces and let go of more than 250,000 This policy would destabilize the country and allow the emergence of rebel militias that would organize and quickly grow in power. In 2004, one such Sunni jihadist group pledged allegiance to Osama bin Laden It was later based in Al Anbar province and essentially fought against the US coalition and the Shiites, sparking a Later, the groups merged with five other militias and proclaimed themselves the Islamic State of Iraq. In June 2009, the new Iraqi government At the same time, the US began the withdrawal of its troops from Iraq, marking the end of the civil war 2011 would be marked by the Arab Spring leaders who'd mostly been in power for Syria was not spared but the revolts were violently muted by the creating the Free Syrian Army. They were discreetly by the international Fighting alongside the regular army was the Lebanese Hezbollah and the Guard Corps of the Islamic Revolution, a paramilitary organization based in Iran -- The conflict would make the of a new Sunni jihadist and Salafist Among those was the Al-Nusra In April 2013, the Islamic State in Iraq encompassing Al-Nusra. But al-Qaeda refused to validate the new group, breaking the link between the The Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant decided to intervene alone in Syria. In June, they would seize a good part of Raqqa at the expense of the Free Syrian Army. The city became its political and military capital. Faced with this threat, the Kurds of Syria would federate and create their own They also organized protection units: In Iraq, the second civil war breaks out The Islamic State in Iraq and the During its offensive, the organization seized oil reserves and military equipment abandoned by the fleeing army. In June, they captured Mosul, the second city of Iraq with 2 million inhabitants, which became its religious and intellectual capital. However, they would be stopped in Peshmergas, the armed faction of the The Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant became the Islamic State and proclaimed a Caliphate on its territory. Iran would react by militarily bombings. The US creates a new together 69 countries. This coalition forces against the Islamic state Around the world, jihadist rebel groups begin to pledge allegiance to the Islamic State. In the north of Syria, the Islamic State Turkish border. But a few months later, coalition, the Kurds took over and pushed They then inflict a major defeat on the towns of Tell Abyad, which was for smuggling oil, arms and foreign fighters. At the end of September, Russia intervened in support of Bashar al-Assad: a historical ally. It must also defend its only naval base in the Mediterranean Sea, located in Tartus. It would first attack rebels whose front al-Nusra then controlled 20-25% of the Syrian population. At the same time, the Kurds announced other rebel groups to form the Syrian They tried to gain more ground by proclaiming the federal region of Rojava which made Turkey react. Rather isolated Turks first restored ties with Russia and This seized the last territories of the In Iraq, the Peshmerga who liberated Iraqi army. In February, and aimed to take over Manbij from the prevent it. Turkey then officially conquered land to the rebels of the Free With the Islamic State weakened and losing on all fronts, the Syrian Democratic Force enters Raqqa. A month later, Mosul is The Iraqi army and its allies quickly win back territory However, the Kurds of Iraq would organize a referendum for their independence, reviving ethnic tensions. The Iraqi government then entered the fight and regained control of strategic areas including oil deposits and important Finally, a ceasefire would end this conflict. Raqqa is now fully liberated, quickly followed by the last remaining towns and villages controlled Today the Islamic State has no territory in the Middle East, but its reign isn't without consequence. In Iraq, a fragile peace seems to be holding at the moment. The country must rebuild itself by finding In Syria, the civil war that displaced half its population is still Some areas are still controlled by rebel groups. Bashar al-Assad clings continues to be an important factor. diplomatically reinforced by this While Saudi Arabia is now bogged down in another conflict in Yemen Shiite rebels who are backed by Iran. But we'll discuss this in an upcoming video...