For the past four years I've been using an marketing funnel to convert new This funnel is so simple it has made me millions of dollars and I'm about to share So keep watching. Hey, posse, what's up? It's Alex coming at you this week with a video to help you capture and convert more customers If you're new to the crew, welcome make sure to subscribe below and don't forget to hit that my next tutorial goes live. Now, first things first, let's talk about what a funnel actually is because it is a word you hear So a funnel is simply referring as they interact with from being completely unaware at the top of the funnel moving of the funnel where they and repeat customers. And it's the touchpoints between that make up the structure or And it goes without saying that there are a ton of different Funnels can be simple and they can be complex and downsell pathways and retargeting campaigns But that is not the type of funnel that we're For the first four years of very simple sales funnel, And I was able to generate over a million dollars And I'm literally just out my funnels into And this leads me to the biggest misconception that if you wanna grow, The number of times I've heard people say I need to fix my funnel, or I need a new funnel And yes, at the end of the day while your marketing funnel is behind the marketing that So if your funnel isn't working it's because your So fix that and you can have one very simple funnel that your on because that is exactly what I did. So with that, let me show step funnel that has made So step one, traffic. The number one goal at the very top of your marketing funnel aka more eyeballs on your stuff. We call this impressions or And then converting which is what we call traffic. There are many different about getting traffic to your organic traffic via seo, affiliate marketing, sponsored Now, if you're thinking, oh, great I already can't do this because let me stop you right have to run paid ads in The reality is it's not and businesses out there to run ads when they're just starting out because many don't have for that media right away. So if that's you don't This funnel can still work And in the first year of my business I actually didn't spend a I built my business 100% organically via my social channels and And anytime and every time it made sense I would promote a lead to my site to sign up for my email list. Which leads me to step So once you've got some it's time to turn those Your goal is to get them with you so you can continue with them and move them Now, it's gonna be really from you if they literally So instead of asking you wanna get them to make And the best way to do join your email list. But hey, we all know isn't the most compelling call to action. You gotta offer them something valuable in exchange for their email me to the next component Number three, a high value lead magnet. So your goal with the away something highly valuable for free. That's why I'm drawing this because it has got to be good. You really wanna make sure will move them closer to their solve a problem and offer next to go deeper into the funnel Now, I have an entire tutorial breaking down my lead magnet formula and I will link to that in But just to give you a quick idea your lead magnet could be a cheatsheet, a guide, a webinar a workshop, a masterclass, you name it. And of course, in order they need to input their email address which will then deliver the And voila, you have a new Now it's time for them to of your funnel, which is step So once you've got that you can begin the process of nurturing them through a to as indoctrination Now, the purpose of up more desire and awareness and trust by providing Yes, more value people. We need to give the people value. So instead of hard with these emails is to on who you are and why you're uniquely This is a great time to share who you are what you stand for, and most importantly that you understand them and their unique challenges and obstacles. And again, just like the lead magnet I have a full tutorial dedicated to breaking down my 3-step So if you wanna get more help on that step you can find a link to that Alright, now after you've with some amazing, amazing welcome emails you can move them into the which is step number five, sales emails. Okay, so up until now you haven't really directly But you've been seating the and offering them a ton and tips to help them solve Now it's time to let them know that you have something make solving their pain or better than if they And this is where sales emails come in. So I recommend sending a including one to introduce One to educate on the benefits of how it can help your audience. One to showcase social One to stack the value. And finally, one to convey Now, all of these emails or button that will link of your sales funnel where and buy from you. And that is step number six, a sales page. So this is where you present them with your amazing offer and And then of course, action. Now, yes, this is the and businesses are focused because this is the page that or service AKA where And listen, there are tons and tons of sales page formulas but over my decade of experience I have found this 10 step and time again. Now, this quick checklist that I always look for when boost authority, and ignite sales. And you can grab your free copy of this checklist in just a second. Alright. And there you have it, made meet millions of high value lead magnet, sales emails, and of So if you are ready to from tactical to practical, out my 8-week copywriting coaching program the Copy Posse Launch Files. Inside this program, I teach and every asset that I talked about today including the formulas the guides, and the help you write a million dollar funnel. So you'll find the link in the description box below and you'll find the link in just a second at the end of this video. I hope you enjoyed this. Give me a thumbs up if you like this, and I will see you next time. Until then, I'm Alex. Caio for now. Alright, guys, if you enjoyed that video make sure to check out the and you can click right Your email list is one of the most valuable assets And in order to grow your email list you need to learn how to So in this video, I'm gonna break down the exact 3-step lead magnet formula that I follow to attract and then turn those leads into sales. Keep watching.