You know, I thought by now we'd be done making making another video. But, this time I want to Powerstroke or the 6.4L Powerstroke, both of made videos on them. I want to look at the newer find out everything wrong with that motor. Now, is the current engine used by Ford and it's the starts with the 7.3L Powerstroke, then the 6.0L the 6.7L. So, get buckled in get comfy let's take Real quick<= for those who don't know why rewind the clock a little bit and see where as compared to the 7.3L the 6.0L and 6.4L before Navistar International. The 7.3L, the 6.0L, and Ford themselves. Navistar put these and then Ford simply just paid them for the and that was that. The 6.0L was developed and that's emission standards. The government difficult to pass emission standards by raising innovation on manufacturers to produce cleaner that you and I breathe. As to why they don't put or the maritime transportation industry, or the emissions components at all on any of those pieces video entirely, but regardless, the EPA's focus with the 6.0L they were able to squeeze by the that the 7.3L could not pass. But, the 6.0L costed Ford a ton of money in warranty claims. So, supposed to provide even better emissions output the problems that they had created with the 6.0L. problematic and Ford only used it from 2008 to Ford dropped Navistar and decided to design and which was the 6.7L aka the Scorpion. That was back which is a testament to how superior it is to although it's a much better engine than the problem free. Real quick I want to mention Powerstroke. You got the first gen from 2011 to third gen from 2020 until now. With that out of the number one problem on the 6.7L Powerstroke CP4.2 injection pump. This is the same injection the LML Duramax, some 6.7L Cummins engines, the other applications. It's arguably the most popular on their engines, but it's also known for being it will send metal fragments through the lines the return system. Detecting this failure before it's through you'll need to replace the pump, The problems typically occur when contaminants get choose the CP4 pump over the CP3 pump is lighter thanks to its aluminum construction and or before the hundred thousand mile mark, the truck is maintained. While there isn't really a lot of it revolves around the debris and metal are eventually passed through the whole fuel matter of time until something fails entirely. but there are some aftermarket solutions to help fix for the fuel system and the Bosch CP4 pump Use good fuel, change out your fuel filters when issue. The next problem is one that actually this video and that's the turbocharger. Most of which is the Garrett GT32 SST. That's the turbo get into the problems on the turbo, I want so interesting. And that's the fact that it's one. This works by using two compressor wheels this turbo has really small compressor wheels, to produce the target boost levels needed for the where some of the problems start. In stock form, over a 100,000 RPM and over 150,000 rpm when 2014 Super Duty trucks didn't have exhaust braking alive and exhaust braking would definitely kill it a ton of work for the bearings to do. The GT32 SST bearing center section that Ford used, but they in 2013. Ultimately though, this turbo didn't give 2015 when the gen 2 motor came out, they switched GT37. This new GT37 turbo features a much larger the GT32 SST with its 46mm compressor and 64mm this new turbo flows way more air and doesn't have simply means lower shaft speed and more power. The is not necessarily better, but it's definitely also worth noting that the 2011 to 2012 trucks inlet pipe, but Ford quickly fixed that issue. The a lot of controversy, because it left emergency At least one faulty EGT sensor was identified equipped with the ambulance package. The emissions features several EGT sensors. When one of the driving and fail to restart entirely. Outside are generally known for being problematic on the you can be stranded. To be fair though, the EGT bucks and they're super easy to replace. They so it's really not that major of an issue. Yeah catastrophic problem. Moving on, the next common diesel trucks with modern emissions equipment the EGR cooler issues with the 6.0L and the 6.4L, 6.7L EGR cooler would be much more reliable, problems. Like the 6.4L, the 6.7L uses two EGR a common housing instead of being separated. The for expansion and contraction without rupturing exhaust flow before the EGR coolers, rather than it doesn't rupture nearly as often as the older for getting clogged with soot, especially on diesel engines don't produce that much heat while trucks with a ton of idle time will end up with been burned off if the truck was driven during moved the EGR valve to the hot side, Ford mostly who don't particularly care about having is the easiest way to fix this issue and ensure fine if you get caught on the road with a deleted want to cover are that the nitrogen oxide sensors to 2012 trucks. Those same early model trucks are the factory and on top of that early production which can cause catastrophic failure. I think it's the glow plugs are not that widespread and have the issue. It's not an issue on the later trucks chassis cab models. There's also issues with the front cover on 2013 and later trucks, because of also worth noting that the crankcase pressure pressure to go through the roof, which then of pressure. Outside of the problems that we just with the 6.7L, it's super reliable as compared be. There should not be a lot, like any of these they shouldn't be very long videos. Because it's nice to see that Ford took a lot of the all of them. So, the 6.7L is a lot better and you Powerstroke engine ever. Yes, the 7.3L is arguably massive engine, that barely makes any power, and at it that way, the 6.7L is smaller, it's more You could honestly make an argument that the 6.7L the best Powerstroke engine ever. I'm not going will go absolutely crazy. So, I'll let you guys I also think it's worth mentioning that most of gen 1 truck. So, ,you saw a lot of the issues were Most of those issues were solved by the time the are much more reliable with the 6.7L Powerstroke pretty much all the issues are gone. Gen 3 is whatsoever. If you guys enjoyed this video<= it really helps me out, helps the channel grow. you want to see in the future. While you're down future videos, check out some of the other videos engines engine tech and a whole bunch of other