On tropical slopes, drivers and their trucks, In Brazil, Sandro delivers his goods - Lots of holes in the road? Benjamin drives a Saviem bus For him in the event of a breakdown, it is also up to The 2 men know it well, every time the unpleasant surprises begin. We are in Cameroon. The man who comes At 48 years old, he is an experienced driver A Saviem utility van, In Africa, these vehicles adapted to the track, because they have the reputation of going everywhere. - I went there with Saviem. where I can go with a bus no other car outside Benjamin has 30 years of driving behind him. He started taxi before His tours take him to the 4 he is back in Yaounde after 2 days If he appreciates his job for Benjamin didn't choose it. he had to find - It was not a choice, nor a desire, but in principle, I arrived When I lose my mother who I no longer have any choice and I find myself To find my piece of bread, I had to that I realize that I can start 7000 kilometers from Yaounde, experience road conditions We are exactly under the same close to the Equator. The BR 156 road, It crosses 600 kilometers of forest Despite the extensive work there are still 165 kilometers of track remaining. Twice a week, Sandro does of which he knows every turn - I've been taking it for a long time Every turn, every obstacle, every bridge, I have a great habit, It's like I'm entering my house Even with the lights off, It is no coincidence that Sandro Although he is still young, he has inherited - I'm 37 soon, I started driving I have seen many things, Truck accidents. But I have a gun, the Word of God. I still have it here. day or night, It always helps to drive on this road. Everything good that happens God is always by our side. And for Sandro, unlike Benjamin, - The majority of my colleagues, Because it's not a life, There is a tiring side to staying I had the opportunity to study, but In Cameroon, Benjamin This morning he leaves the village and he didn't fill his bus. He must reach as soon as possible the If he arrives too late, the buses and he will not be able to Although his salary is calculated Benjamin is also submissive It is on this result that his So when the 1ers quagmires Benjamin decides to go in force. Even if the Saviem is a vehicle and on these broken roads, - It's my wheel, it's the one that comes out of there. We have spare wheels. because we are still far from the city. From the start, I have been and I still have over 200 And there, it really came very early. It's never Benjamin who repairs his bus. a baggage handler and an assistant He is the one who manages small breakdowns. Like everyone there are always passengers This type of case is common on the track, This time, Benjamin thinks - Several times it happens to me It is enough that there is perhaps a slope, Sometimes even this same wheel If there were people walking, That's another problem. You just need to be in a village, these are problems. Either it breaks Stories can happen as the repair is completed, a trucker stuck behind - Calm down, it's over, In Brazil, Sandro has more For several years, work Brazilian and asphalted portions - Today to do It depends on the speed, but before 15 years to travel 600 kilometers. This is the track as a whole Before, it had to be smoothed out, which create impassable quagmires. - Before, it was more Today it's more straight. There was always it was difficult to move forward in the mud, when we went up, It was one more difficulty The climbs were long and very steep. It's improved by 60-70%. This is a very relative improvement the road surface can change in a matter of hours. Drivers are often forced in order to avoid numerous holes, So when 2 truckers cross paths, they always keep up to date with the news - You will have to take This is how information travels. mutual aid and communication are Unlike the tracks of Cameroon, everyone knows, - There's a truck stuck behind. He couldn't go up. - He stayed behind. We couldn't get him out of there. Sandro will not have time blocked several dozen Because the truckers stay - Hello my friend, you have - Yes, he got away with it. Sandro will not have to intervene, but the Because the closer his truck approaches Oyapock, In addition to the many holes and ruts, It is recommended to slow down their because with the rains, the structures Waiting for their replacement drivers have no choice but - I'll go down to check He collapsed, When I passed here, everything was fine Unpredictable. However, this bridge which was has just been repaired. - All that is there is old wood. It would be necessary to return the part of To cross this bridge, Sandro did not have support the 18 tons of his truck. Sandro is an experienced driver, but with a sudden downpour, The sleepers, which have become slippery, could A passage that plays out Left Macapa at dawn, to reach the border town of Oyapock. Oyapock was once the place these illegal gold miners Since their departure, activity has declined. The city that produces nothing, who travel from Macapa. Food, building materials, everything 2 times a week, Sandro - I ship, deliver and transport There's a bit of everything, wood, junk, Exhausted by the road, Sandro And we understand why. - If you have no one to I won't be able to drive anymore because of my back, and fatigue is twice as great. Delivery completed, and he only has one worry on his mind, Yet this is what happens This is a serious shortfall Sandro roams the streets looking for We told him about an individual who For Sandro who works for himself, It's an unexpected opportunity and to do a little When he discovers the magnitude - An oven, a pram and a bike? - A 2-seater mattress. - I'll do it to you for 80 Reals. The price is a bit high. - 60? Deal done. Sandro reluctantly accepts the move. It must be said that usually But there, he has no choice. In addition, the customer demands - I will arrive around 4 or 5 a.m., Sandro is not at the end of his troubles. To be there the next day at On the road to Nanga, Benjamin Despite the lack of visibility and In these rural areas, Only half of its He must arrive as soon as possible But you have to take into account the stops To compensate for his shortfall, a little time to do your shopping, - In principle, when we come here, but we have to stock up, For example, these 2 plantain diets, So, that's one of the advantages. Customers are understanding because to go shopping because that's all I am obliged to accept when So they too are obliged We have to do it since we share If you are not flexible, you or with the public, it's no use. Here, everyone is happy and all He's used to seeing everything. The breaks do not exceed Benjamin knows that at the slightest delay, some of its passengers And it is no coincidence that a When Benjamin's bus for Benjamin, it's finally the time Unfortunately, for some of a major mechanical problem. The mechanic of the - I have a brake problem, 30 kilometers from here, I lost it. recently I took a trip, I didn't have any problems today. the car bothers me. After the brake, Only here, the next ones and they don't want to know anything. The minutes pass and Benjamin is starting to get very annoyed. on the other, travelers who are getting impatient. - Every time we have a problem like that, Because the passenger, Those to whom we explain and who understand, who refuse to understand. We are When I say support, that means You try to resist, saying you can't go You accept that we say everything we tell you, The mechanic identified the fault. It could come from a defective part which is itself sold to them as new, Benjamin can't believe his ears. - I ask them to come down, because it's And inevitably, with the heat, Benjamin must react. - People don't think. When you are under pressure, hold back, - What are we going to do ? We go - 4 times I went - You yourself are not reasonable! - I don't work under pressure this when my vehicle is good. Return to Brazil where Sandro is But here things get done A driver even stops, - Hello, is it blocked? - It's one of the hits in - What problem do you have? - The problem is the brake shoe. He's stuck and I have to To repair as quickly as possible, Sandro will in other words, neutralize it. This means that he will not have - Your problem is serious. Are there a lot of holes in the road? - Yes, and collapsed bridges. - Nobody repairs the road, - Are you really late? - It's always like that. - If you need, I am at your disposal. Usually when a guy who knows you If he can help, he does. and then we thank him. Then he continues on his way. If the Whether rich or poor, we are all on the road. That's it. Here, solidarity is a question Sandro will be able to resume He should have arrived at 5 p.m. the day before, but - It's totally impossible to say I will be there at such Even in summer, when there is no mud, This is house 7013. It was late in the morning that In just a few minutes, her lean Sandro only earned 60 reals So he leaves immediately where a cargo awaits It's only 200 - We cross the Villanova bridge. From here to the village of Maraca, There's a place where it climbs and we can't We have the pressure, which must increase, It is from here that This is the most critical part, How to say ? It's very slippery around here. For 40 kilometers, Sandro goes Although he knows every rut, he must concentrate to avoid He must be extra careful he has one less brake. If it slips too much, it's While Sandro fights against the road, What was supposed to be his day off, starting with its rim. It's a day that is not paid, - Work, at some point, annoys me, I arrived yesterday, I'm in the garage. In the morning, you have to take another A little further, the mechanics around vehicles being serviced. Benjamin's truck, which was not spared - Every time I return from a trip, so that we can try to redo, to see again It just takes a little negligence The roads we go to, To be definitively reassured, Benjamin decided to start - The drums on the truck, This one comes from Europe, Sometimes we take in another vehicle By dint of patching up these trucks these talented mechanics are capable 40 years old, and of which - They are tired Saviem, but we can make them work. This one is not ready to roll, We cut up the old cabin, This one, too, is going to roll. It's missing now And it goes into painting. It's almost done. It's because here we care about Saviem, because, - What makes Saviem successful, You can go on the roads, you are not going to have a problem Here is the bridge which plays the role You are making a bad maneuver, you are breaking your bridge. We deplore because we don't have any more coins. Used parts are Most bought back in are considered a real treasure. If they help prolong life The rust that covers them makes so we have to tinker - The welder should come, so that we can loosen it. We are going to weld the bolts onto the screws, which we and there with nuts, At this rate, it will have been necessary Benjamin's Saviem in good condition The next day, it's at the bus station When the first travelers it is accompanied by a procession For his part, Benjamin organizes As usual, he must - Calm down ! Why are you so agitated? The advantage at the start of the capital, to fill the bus. Disadvantage, always takes longer than expected. - We are late ! For Sandro, the most To continue the journey, Halfway through, he boarded As a result, morale is high. His work day presents itself It's 3 p.m. when Sandro Here, you don't choose your break time. It's the road and the weather And when it's time to sit down at the table, He has good reasons, is an opportunity for Brazilian truckers. - Here, in the Mappa and in everything The driver who stops and it is not only done on It's the same in everything Throughout Brazil this system exists. End of break. Sandro left for these 2 On this track, when a in the absence of a warning triangle, truck drivers use For Sandro, it's a duty - You have to maneuver it so that I - He can no longer drive. The truck driver who arrives immediately to - I'll stand there, I'll go down slowly. - You have to maneuver first. But the means of towing the - Do you only have this to tow? Where is your cable? - You are going to wind this cable There is a spot in the bodywork. I revved my engine and I'll go to the next village, As Sandro has no off to a tow Before putting the truck Sandro has to get him off the track He goes back several hundred meters But on arrival, his maneuver is not - Why did you come like that? Turn around, we'll put a stick on you. For further, vehicles could collide, We make do with what we have, a trunk should do the trick. - Will he hold? - It will be easier if The longer it is, the more likely it is to bend. It would be better to shorten it, it will hold. - We put it in the tube, the stick, Normally, it should hold. We will ride slowly, Sandro is not really reassured His truck is his livelihood, and an unfortunate collision could well - What are you afraid of with this stick? - I'm afraid your truck - Yours, it risks nothing, at worst, it's I just want this stick, You have to tie it well It is by driving at walking pace that until the next habitation. At 10 kilometers per hour, it is not No matter the time lost, for Sandro, is an integral part of his profession. In Brazil, solidarity between Benjamin is not so lucky he will be able to realize it. When he almost arrived at his destination, By insisting a little, the Saviem can pass. Progress is difficult. by putting weight on the rear wheel to but that won't be enough. As he reaches his goal, Benjamin only has a few more Difficult to grow them with - I got stuck there. We'll see the encouragement later. - You're helping me, it's not money. It discouraged us. We said to ourselves that you - I think I have 1,000 francs Because if you don't help By paying 1000 CFA francs Benjamin will spend a fifth of - Where are the brothers who helped me there? Really thank you, that's nice. It is often better to give them something I arrive in this village, there are those who had already taken their bath, then wash again. There is a little pain that we have for them In Brazil. Sandro has arrived He came to take delivery that these villagers intend to sell - From here to Macapa it is 200 kilometers. All the villagers here live Here they have Brazil nuts, They have banana plantations, Often, I bring a fridge, Also furniture, equipment wood, bricks, cement. Everything comes from Macapa. It's a real bond that Sandro In Brazil where the train does not exist, the truckers are very especially by the villagers of Sandro doesn't like to hang around on the road, he prefers to leave immediately. If all goes well, On the way back, Sandro finds the colleague who Apparently its breakdown is Sandro turns around and stops, - Is it in the front or in the back? Is it an engine problem? I found all this when the engine revved. I have to wait for a mechanic. - They broke a suspension blade. He broke a piston because - It is either a piston which But I think it's more the piston For sure. -Besides, I have some goods in there. - He can no longer continue his journey. As he has few things, I If one day I need something, It would be nice to put everything in the bottom. Here, villagers and travelers do not Everyone knows the They know what they owe to and create a link with the outside world. - Here in Amapa and everywhere "Without trucks, Brazil stops." I would rather say: if there are no truckers, drivers? The truck doesn't drive alone. If you if he's a good driver, he goes quietly, slowly, but he goes there. No need to have trucks, Sandro knows that he has and will always have He can continue his journey without fear. that he receives recognition. that he recounts his travel misadventures, everyone listens to it, His wife. Aicha knows that without him, who even sacrifices himself for - I entered his Since then, we have not known Sometimes he is even sick, and said that: &quot;The little money I have, It's as if he was going to waste, to see him sick, he - My children, they are proud since they "My father is a driver." This means that they are not embarrassed, since I am used to and then show them that It is thanks to this that I raise you. It is a river which A journey that I have often made in When I'm doing nothing, I take out my photos, They try to imagine what I'm going through On the mud roads, let it be truckers must all expect Benjamin and Sandro are both conscious Because they both know an ear that will listen to them. Whether they are family