So the last couple videos here in Cerro Gordo which is an old mining town and the man who owns this town and he has an amazing channel he has an amazing book called 'Ghost Town Living' which I was actually listening up here it just like totally got me in the moodn. Yeah so I figured that since I've been filming is really bringing history back to that might have been served at one of So thank you to NordVPN for sponsoring this this time on Drinking History. So before we get started chatting I So cocktails were sometimes served in so I'm using a fairly simple cocktail that comes from the 1862 'How to Mix Drinks or &quot;Whiskey cocktail. 3 dashes of gum 1 wine glass of whiskey and a piece of lemon peel. Fill one-third full of fine ice; shake So the whiskies that they had were pretty much bourbon, Scotch, Irish, whiskey, Canadian whiskey but I'm going to be using Jack Daniels I couldn't get Bogart bitters I ordered so I'm going to be using Peychaud's pretty much everything is the same. The with a bit of gum arabic and it leaves Cheers Brent! Great having you up Now do you recognize these glasses? I do from glasses and these were red wine glasses at the so they had some from the period in one of the old Okay, I'm not going to lie. It basically just tastes like whiskey a little Pretty simple and it is like feel compelled to finish the cocktail at this time but what I thought was interesting was Sure. Because here in the ghost town or when it wasn't a ghost town when a lot of the miners were working 12-hour shifts interesting is that these days we come up here but like when the miners were active almost very like hectic 'cus to your point 12-hour shifts most of the establishments running 24 hours a day to service the and so it must have just been insane up that the town had close to 4,000 residents. people up here it feels kind of busy, it's cool, it's exciting you know. It's up. Yeah. Now how many buildings 'cus right yeah, 15 buildings I would say. How many my understanding like hundreds of of tents you know that packed up and left but then the street that we're on these flat spots that you see outside the window would have had buildings at them, right above this called The Cosmopolitan. That was actually one plot over from was a very fancy hotel and saloon. There one of the brothels just above that and so this Now there is a picture in the room, I'm staying of a woman who I believe might Lola Travis probably, yeah. Is that her? lady back in the 1860s. Yeah that's so crazy. that lady from one of your videos that she had a brothel here at Cero Gordo. she had a brothel in another mining town by here called Darwin and one of my I guess in Darwin one of her customers so he was arguing about the bill, they man dead in the street and the town so I think Lola Travis was She was powerful, that's crazy. So you It was early 2020. Yup. And you And why did you do that? Yeah, so I actually bought the town And- but I had not moved here full a variety of things I think. Growing up my you know that old western show and he had dementia so like he would watch the remember as a child just like the allure of the there's like definitely like a romanticism that's the old movies or this and that. I just thought- I wanted to become an I ended up going to architecture school, couldn't cut it. I just couldn't handle the started working in marketing you know kind of doing some online marketing but at the same time I still had of hospitality and so I had a bed Oh cool and that was in a and so I always love this idea of together because I think it's one thing to go to a city but it's another thing to be able you know like you could go to any city and stay in a Marriott and it's going to be same you know stay in a building that's part of the thing in Austin was going very well looking for a bigger project something else to do so he saw this come online and boingboing.net or something was like buy a whole town for under a he sent it to me, and he sent to me in might be up your alley. It's almost as we talked about last night like I so I started reading everything that they could about the town and I was just Gunsmoke, this is the American I remember I called up the real I'd like to buy your town. You're know thinking this and I remember he just kind of laughed Apparently it was very popular already, so I went sent him like my love of history, my understanding the town which is preserve the historic nature it worked out and that and we closed on Friday the 13th which seemed very fitting you know for a ghost town to close on Friday And I love that you are- I mean it's such like what building are we in right now? so the miners would have came in here There's actually- you would love this actually that's an inventory list for this exact and it list every single product of the held here. that might have been in this store Yeah. Just kind of hanging around, but then but then there also a bit you've got electricity, you got running water, you've got- I mean and you wouldn't be able to Which you do have internet. I noticed you And you have an open Wi-Fi which is what I am See even in a ghost town like this when you are on who can try to get your sensitive information always be on NordVPN. NordVPN encrypts all Wi-Fi you can feel safe. Personally I have NordPass which keeps all of your passwords safe so if I want complicated passwords NordPass Also if those passwords ever do find themselves then they will alert you so So visit my link at nordvpn.com/MaxMiller of a 2-year plan plus four extra months. You can try it risk-free with a 30-day money back So I didn't know that you owned a bed and because I was going to say do do you know what I mean there's no playbook for bringing I think that's very much been I would like to think that I understand I enjoy things like that. The hotel has we are at the end of an 8 mile dirt road that you very sparsely populated part of California we're having to meet all modern building codes are difficult to come up here difficult to keep going but what I like a lot and we talked about this a little bit but at this point we've had because of the channel probably thousands of people that have come up and helped volunteer, and I think that each of them have helped with the hotel in some way, whether it's just moving concrete bags from one place to the other or nailing a nail on the wall. What I like about that and I think that that's important to keep towns like this alive. I mean there's not many towns in the American West left. A lot of these towns have just been destroyed or forgotten about in time but I think at this point so many people have such a deep connection to the town in small part because of the channel you know and then they kind of go about it themselves and I think that in a time when often social the idea that YouTube is bringing an abandoned mining town back to life is very like poetic and beautiful to me, and I think it's very interesting snapshot. I wonder in, let's say a hundred years, the idea of YouTube will be interesting probably? I wonder what you know- so the idea that this social media channel helped give this a second wind. It already has to be discussed in the history book of Cerro Gordo moving forward, this moment, and so it'll be very interesting to see where that progresses from here but to answer your question I have a lot of good help, I would say, as far as guiding, bringing the town back to life these days. I've been really fortunate to be able to talk to experts in tons of different fields about different things even about the food now, you know, the history of the food which has been really fun. We found an oyster shell 'cus they were eating oysters up here. Crazy to think about. Yeah I don't want to say we're in the middle of nowhere but we're kind of in the middle of nowhere, and they were eating oysters. The middle of nowhere desert, too. Desert, yeah! I mean so these these oysters were coming in on trains in ice cars refrigerated cars before refrigeration so brought up here on mules probably. And that's so cool too that like you know that piece of history had I seen that shell myself I would just not- I would have ignored it and as I have been it's been sitting on the shelf over there probably for many months, but now somebody can provide the context to it and I think that the context brings the town to life in even more ways now. I'm imagining these miners eating oysters up here which is a crazy thought in my mind well and that's what I love is everything here it's it's just like- I mean driving up that dirt road it is like going back in time like slowly until you can't see anything of the modern world really and everything here has a story, you know whether it's the massive bellows on the you found a coin. Yeah we were trenching in a waterline and a guy was working up here name Trevor like 'Brent come here', and we found a coin on the front and stamped Cerro Gordo store Keeler California on the back it's 12. half cents which was a bit they had their own currency here was never in and so we were like discovering history firsthand and adding to the history books 'cus it also changes the entire color of how I saw the and company towns are very like honorous and like oppressive to workers. They were basically ensuring that you're never going to make money, and that just adds a different tinge to you know the entire way I see the history here and each day like every little item from the coin to now the oyster, and everything else I feel like pieces together the history of Cerro Gordo in a way that I don't think it's ever been pieced together before and again that's helped in part to you know people coming up and helping out and just contributing their own insights into the past year. One thing you mentioned last night that I thought was really interesting and how the YouTube channel has affected this place positively, is you said that there was a guy back in like the 70s who ran the town kind of- or was the caretaker Wally Wilson and if you came up and gave him five bucks you could take away a bucket of whatever so it kind of cleaned out a lot of the history but now that you have the YouTube channel people are sending you those things back. Yeah if people are sending them back and they know that now that I think people understand that the town is in good care and that's be here for a long time and so I've had people send back artifacts but I've also personal family journals of their family members would have been just essentially lost to time. these families have allowed me to share their greater known history so I feel like every day which is exciting. It just feels like a historic scavenger hunt where every day we're putting on another puzzle piece onto the puzzle, and it gets more clear each day that goes by. Yeah. I mean I- that's kind of like what I like to do it's all, online it's all books... you're getting to do it in person. It's like really bringing history back to life in person. I just- I'm a little jealous and a little like oh boy I don't think I could do that 'cus I see how much you work and it's a lot. So talking about a few more things that I found in the- or you showed me in the in the museum. I was looking at a box in there that says dynamite on it and there are sticks of dynamite in that box Brent. The sticks are replications of- Oh thank goodness! But the box is real so the mines here were made from dynamite which fun fact that your viewers might like, Dynamite and then from my understanding at the end of his but the dynamite box also tell a story in themselves because when dynamite came out there was just one company making the dynamite and eventually mining and the use of dynamite got so big in the west that so they made them break up and so they eventually split into Atlas, Hercules and yeah I think that's Hercules in there. Yeah. Exactly and so you can upon what dynamite boxes are in there. Really interesting. And so as I'm going through the dynamite down at Cerro Gordo you can see this is that's one day's haul of dynamite boxes from down in the mine. There's just a ton down there but I like that as I bring them up I can kind of get a sense of when the last time somebody was walking around there was but also side note for people that might want to explore abandoned It bleeds the nitroglycerin and it crystallizes and so that's something that was told early on, I'm very glad I was told early on, because I see a lot of crystallized dynamite down in the mine and I've actually asked the local bomb squad essentially with the police, like what should I do and he said well basically you have two or three options. One is called BLIPing which is blow in place so you blow it up there which I was like well no you know. Cus it's in the mine. Yeah I was like Two, you can- so dynamite needs I think impact to explode. It's not the- It's not a charge. Exactly. Yeah it's at that creates a small then that makes it blow and nothing's going to happen, it's going to burn. Really? so you can actually soak dynamite in diesel and then burn it. That's another option to get rid probably- Again you don't want to do that. And he's like third option is just leave it alone, I was like all right, that seems Yeah. I just leave the dynamite Alone doors that almost look like movie props that say Another really interesting thing in there was all the stuff from Chinatown. Yeah. So Cerro Gordo had a Chinatown. It did. Yeah. Just over the hill here and I think that like the majority of the miners were Chinese but there was still a lot of segregation and so Chinatown was just over the hill here and from my understanding they had kind of their own community over there. Their own restaurants, the cabins are constructed a little bit differently Over there there's a lot of stone cabins and it's lot of these are still just gone and we found even older Chinese coins that from my understanding would be hung up for good luck inside of the cabin to opium bottles, to everything else here, and it's That's crazy and I'm guessing a lot of those people 'cus I was reading- I don't know about here but the Chinatown in the 1850s in San Francisco was like 98% male. Yeah. So I'm guessing it was the same here you know. It was- they had left their families and just crazy. I think probably- so a lot of from my understanding, a lot of the Chinese immigrants came for a variety of reasons but including the gold rush but imagine by the time that people got here, I heard stories that people would hear about the gold rush in Europe, and come here to be here but by the time they got here it had ended by years earlier even and so the silver boom was kind of after that this way to go either to the Comstock load or elsewhere and so I imagine a lot of the Chinese workers that were here might have been part of the early gold rush around San Francisco and then 10 years years later made their way out here where they lived. It's difficult though because there are some census studies from Cerro Gordo They just- didn't even include always it's difficult to pin down that piece of and one thing that we discovered that is evident actually had its own cemetery as well where the different portion of the area too which again just When we often forget about- like you said the majority of miners were- I was reading something about you know there was the Chinese Exclusion Act of course where they couldn't immigrate anymore, but there were also in small towns Chinese exclusionary hours where they weren't allowed in the town outside of certain hours and so they were but then they were kicked out of That's interesting. The building his Cook's house and his cook was Chinese and so outside of that cabin we found a number of Chinese artifacts and we were digging around for water lines over there there too. Interesting. Yeah it was a different era. I think the- incident here that illustrates I think the times related to that the race relation to me was like there was a mining collapse here in 1871 at the 200 level and 30 miners were trapped underneath rock. They basically did what's called over stoping so they took out too much of the ceiling and so much of the ceiling fell on them that they couldn't get them out and they've never gotten them out, they're actually still there and they were all Chinese miners but they didn't even know like essentially who they were. And so they were never able to like relay the information for my understanding, and so yeah it's kind of the the the dark side of again Yeah you know you watch shows like Gunsmoke, much later Tombstone and and Deadwood and everything- I think Deadwood dealt a little bit with it but everybody's white. Yeah. And that's not how I'm guessing there were a lot of Mexicans because it was Mexico until 1848. Yeah and the prospectors who were credited with establishing the town about so I would say like the the demographic majority not white. Yeah. We had a lot a variety of different people and so I think as I think back to the history here. As I always it's written by the people who write stuff down and who is represented isn't necessarily the majority, they were the ones in power. Yeah. So watch Ghost Town living the channel, it's wonderful. You document really your entire time up here but You go into so much personal detail about what inspired you and you know like I said you're bringing history, you're preserving history but you're also for a lack of a better word dead, it was a ghost town and I think that's amazing and I think that my audience would think that's amazing so Ghost Town Living check out the channel check out the book, and thank you so much for letting me film thanks for coming up. And I'll be back Cheers. See ya!