How do I describe you? Britain's leading expert on coffee? I don't-- Or Britain's leading YouTuber on coffee? Coffee expert? Whatever's fine. <i>(laughs)</i> It's like asking me I'm like, &quot;I don't know. Things.&quot; Yeah, I know the feeling. I mean, it's a YouTube-- Yeah. Just so, we can say coffee I don't know, I don't know! I apologise. I'm with James Hoffmann, who has just asked me to call It's probably accurate. His words, not mine. He's going to teach me about coffee, which is something I know... it's not that I don't know It's that I haven't really Okay. Now that was the setup that It's like, find your perfect coffee. Yeah. And then they were <i>(laughs)</i> You don't like coffee, and sort of not a huge fan of caffeine. So I decided when I was that I did not like coffee. Because I tried coffee, I don't think it was instant, but I think it was or something like that. I just said, well, I do not understand I'm not going to do it. And then I kind of never I decided that wasn't for me either. So it was just easier to But like socially, it's a cup of coffee from someone. Yeah. It's a thing that clearly so I want to reevaluate this. I want to be able to say, I want to able to make the decision, is this a thing that adult me, And I think if anyone's something that is not cheap drip coffee... I would hope so. Yes. So I worked on the idea So 90% of what you going to taste today does not have caffeine in it, Yeah, and it will have done. 'Cause I know that's, I looked into the It's a big deal. I'm okay with having, like, if there's a bit of caffeine Like if I drink more than through the course of this We'll see how we go. We'll see what happens. So what we're going to do today. Okay. We're going to do a Because, I'll tell you why afterwards. We're going to start with one round to assess kind of one aspect of coffee to see how you feel about it. So we've got in front of us three coffees. Okay. I'm not going to tell you what they are because it's not important. We're going to do a sort around coffee. Okay. So what I'm going to do is do these as what we would call a cupping, which is the very simple There's ground coffee in each glass. I'm going to pour boiling water on top. Yep. They're going to hang out Okay. Give them a little stir, scoop and then that liquid, we can taste. Right. Before I put water on these, just for your interest, Okay. The smell of coffee to Yes, absolutely. I'd be interested to smells nicer to you than another, and I'm going to go and boil a kettle. Okay, okay. So number one. Okay, so that, I don't but that's, that's not a pleasant, that feels like there's a lot of, kind of, earth, wood I don't have the words but the word that came to Number two. Wood. If number one is Oh, number three is a lot nicer. Number three is... Number three almost has a Earth, wood, slightly sweeter, but I don't know what to call it. This is quite nice That smelt pleasant to you? Yeah. So boiling water into each of them. So these are freshly ground? Freshly ground. There's a whole process there, which I know you go into great detail about on your channel. Everything can be optimised. Hot coffee is actually and it's a mistake many you know, you're drinking coffee hot. You want it for the heat, but you won't get the best out of it. And you'll tend to experience a little bit more intensely when it's hot. That can fade a little as it cools down and things get just more interesting. And you'll experience that. So I'll tell you now what when you first taste them will change. Okay. Right as you go through. Now, when it comes time to taste, what I don't want to do is and experience at you Okay. Because that's just too much. The brain was just like, &quot;I don't know.&quot; And you get into a very much like a, &quot;I like it. I don't. I &quot;I'm just, no.&quot; So what we're going to do when we taste is break down sort of single components and compare them coffee to coffee. Okay. Comparative tasting to learn to taste anything. Right. Right, sitting at home trying to work out, what How do I describe this? Yep. You might be like, And that's kind of where you end. Give yourself two glasses, but you can compare the two, right? Which one is fruitier? Which one is more acidic, which one finishes better, That's what we're going to do here. Okay. To start off with, we're on single aspects of the coffee and compare and contrast those. All right. Okay. I'm just going to So when you think So if we tried to drink this now, Yep. that's just ground Okay, let's not do that. Which is kind of, I mean it's-- It's an experience. It's food safe. It's just not nice. So what you do is you and this actually causes that were floating on the All right. And then we scoop off Ah, okay. Leaving behind, I assume that the stuff, I feel like is a thing Right. Like the, what? How do you Yeah, or is that a different... Bear in mind, complete novice here. Right, okay. I'll give which is foam happens in coffee because when you roast coffee, a bunch of the byproducts from the chemistry of roasting is CO2. It gets trapped inside of the coffee. Oh, okay. About a kilo of coffee will produce in its roasting process about 10 litres of CO2 at a time. Right. A lot of that gets and certain brew methods So espresso is the most famous. 1948, a guy invents Yeah. And everyone's like, &quot;What is the disgusting He calls it &quot;crema&quot;! And he's like, &quot;No, it's &quot;Natural coffee cream&quot;... which is a beautiful piece of transported espresso as a kind What we're going to do, what we used to do was get a spoonful, and slurp very loudly from the spoon, aerate the coffee in the mouth, and sort of turn up the volume. But then what we would do is kind of give it a quick and put that same spoon back in another bowl. Oh, let's not do that. Right, so that's not So that's why you have And what we'll do is throw it in the little cup. Yep. And then slurp All right. <i>(slurps)</i> From the little cup. All I want you to do as is compare the bitterness of the bitterness of two to Right, and ignore everything else? Ignore everything else right now. I just want you to focus on Okay. Don't feel rushed by me or anything. So, spoonful. Into the cup. A little swirl and make it easier. A little swirl, I'll have another little go on this. And then have a sip. Now you don't have a benchmark yet. No, I don't So have a sip, think Hm. Okay. And then-- I mean already compared spitting this out clearly my palette has changed, 'cause-- It's not-- you're not upset? That's not unpleasant. 'cause I haven't gotten That's a thing. All right. Number two. Oh, that's less bitter I No, it's less bitter. Okay. I've worked that out. That's it. There is less <i>(both slurp)</i> No, it's almost, my brain almost briefly thought Well, we'll think about Have a compare, so benchmark Yeah. Number three. Swirl it around. Now I don't know whether my taste buds have just been blown but that barely tastes It is pretty, pretty, Right. And people have an that it is this big, harsh, mean thing, and so most people reach for because they want to And milk is an amazing thing. It's one of the few natural Most coffee needs Most coffee that you I would recommend tempering it because most coffee isn't very good compared to how good coffee can be. Right. Now, you said sweetness, so So let's go three, two, one, Okay. How does the sweetness compare to the sweetness of two. Okay, right. Focus on that. And the spoon does not touch the cup. There is an air gap there. That's it. That's just a little bit for me. Spot the person that used &quot;Air gap&quot;. Right, so we're looking for sweetness. I only know what that means <i>(laughs)</i> Now sweetness is a tricky word, right. Because you will have but do not taste sweetened, right. Yes. that I added a sprinkle of sugar to that and you'd be like, Yeah, that's-- And instead, you're looking for a kind of pleasant characteristic, a kind of natural sweetness, Right. And I feel like there's a but I'm being very 'cause I don't know what to compare it to. All right. Number two. It's hard to taste above Well, so now, take yourself back then to the first thing you tasted Yeah. How does that now stack up now that you've got a benchmark? I feel like there's but I only got it on, like, the last... I'm second guessing myself here. I feel like there was a sweet when it was starting to get cooler. All right. Let's do number one. So this was bitter, or so-- This was the most bitter of the three. So does it also have So I don't think it does. I don't think it does either. Okay. That's-- <i>(laughs)</i> I keep, like I feel like I'm guessing. I feel like an imposter here who is magically guessing because I don't know. If I were to rate them, I'm That one's definitely not I feel like two might Interesting. But I'm not sure about that choice. I think they're pretty I think-- I feel like I'm at the opticians, and someone's going I absentmindedly finished off that one. You know, there was more in That was really pleasant. Well, that's it. We're going to get one at this stage. Which is, I want you to acidity just quickly. Just taste each one, and tell me which one you feel All right. Number one. Number two. Ooh. Definitely more in two than one, 'cause I know what I'm looking for here more than anything, like I what profile I'm trying Three, but only. Two definitely has some, but I feel like three definitely has more of that sort of Do you like it? And so I would say, I would infer then, that this is probably your preference of these three from a sort It's got a hint of sweetness but it's also got that acid bite. Right. So from this... I now have a good benchmark What we're going to do now is refine that through another round of tasting. Okay. Round two is no longer So the first round is bitter, sweet, acidity. How do you feel about those? How do you enjoy those? Here we're going to which is a little bit more challenging because then you're into in the wine tasting and or all that sort of stuff. Don't worry too much about that. We'll we'll pick it apart a but that's what we're going to do. So if you want to have a little smell. All right. Again, just compare and contrast. Number one. See how you feel. Hmm. <i>(laughs)</i> I don't have the words, No, it's okay. I'll give you some words later, and they'll be hopefully satisfying. I don't want to say floral. Floral is the wrong, but plants. Yes. Which is an obvious thing. It's coffee. It's a plant. That's Wood bark. Ooh, oh, what's that? That is... that's a memory from something. I almost want to say berries. Mm-hmm. I don't know what berry, You're saying, &quot;Mm-hmm,&quot; and I can't tell if or thinking that-- I can't skew you too far Ooh, um... spice. Specifically almost you get from kimchi or Interesting. A kind of fermented note? Yes. Yes, that's the word fermented. All right. You are scoring big points. Am I? You're scoring big. You're doing very well. <i>(laughs)</i> I found a skill! <i>(laughs)</i> This is good. So far, doing things where I haven't found skills, and now. Your coffee tasting Okay, right. Flavour. It's hard. And that's okay, all right. So don't beat yourself up So to start initially, do that kind of initial assessment. Okay, how does this feel? How's the bitterness? How's the acidity? Swallow, and then try to filling your head. What kind of flavours? Yes. Okay. All right. That's the sort of easiest time. Number one. Just a quick taste here. Number one, not pleasant for me. Okay. There's some note in that. Yep. Not sure if it's the right word, but I'm going to go with earthy. It doesn't work for me, that. Yeah. But that as a flavour is quite appealing to a number of people in coffee. Oh, okay. Right, so that, that is quite a desirable characteristic. It's a bit of a Marmite flavour. Yeah, not literally, but. Not literally, thankfully. Number two does not have the-- I'm trying to work out if Hang on. That feels like number Okay, interesting. Now I'm not sure there's Number one tasted like coffee to me. Yup. Number two tastes a little bit more like someone has introduced and infused it a bit, and That was almost felt weak to me. Now, it is in part That's true. So this will improve in Oh, there it went. That splattered everywhere. Oh, what's that? Number three has a It's not vinegar. It's It's something. I need, I'm going to try There's something in that It's not citrus. There is. Right, it's a sort of acid dominant, quite sort of fruit acid flavour. Yes, I remember smelling Okay. All right. And number four was the one, I don't want to like preempt what my brain is going to say here, but number four was the one where I was thinking fermented notes. Yes, but that's too hot. Hang on. That's all right. Yes, that is-- That's the same thing. I know it's not kimchi, and it's not going to be But that's the same note. Definitely. I'm not sure... So one I would write off that earthy note is not for me. Of those, I think I prefer number four. If you gave me a choice, I'd go for that, but both three and four are There's no sweetness in or at least quite... Yup. Four replaces that with Yeah, it's a sort of more My brain would really go more and those kinds of ferments, Right, which is not That explains why. Okay. Whereas kimchi, I know must be, you know, kimchi often has a kind of lactic acid. Yes, yes. Quality to it. I think it's a lactic ferment, which is a different sort which is a little bit Like it's still a fruit acid in there, but it's sort of a fermented The water almost tasted Now this is for me wonderful. Because one, you clearly Yes, absolutely. You've accurately You've expressed preference quite easily, which is definitely useful. I was a bit mean. How would this compare to say the one you liked So number three in the do you have a preference between the two? You're going to reveal Yeah, they are. Of course they are. 'Cause that feels weak to me now. That feels like you watered it down. It's context. So the flaw in how we taste in some ways is that we are very much contextual. Right? And so when you very heavy, you compare it. Now, there's a fun little game. Go backwards. So start here, So number four. Right, very strong fermented Oh, wow! Okay, now I can definitely Wow. Okay. That way round, I prefer Interesting. Going that way, prefer the fourth. Going that way, prefer the third. And this, which of course, I now know is the one from earlier, which is going to change But-- Does not feel weak anymore. Right, so you've gone from but high acidity thing but a bit more texture, Now, if you go to here again. Oh, this is going to just, this is going to be very Mm. Yeah, no, that's, whatever that note is that This is one, I don't particularly enjoy Some people really prize that that lack of acid, They really enjoy them. This is the one from the first round. So what we've talked I think it's just a very enjoyable-- Going that way, that's Interesting, but it's the, it's not the most interesting. Yes. That, the number Yeah. Number three is, it's okay. But going either way, I compared to these two, and this is kind of That one's interesting. But I am so aware that a lot of that is based on me now knowing from the first round, and going this way into it. Right, it's-- a lot of it's context, and you can mess with people, and it's quite fun to mess with people. This one here, people get very confused when because they're like, &quot;That's not... &quot;That's not really coffee anymore. Like, what is? That is If it turns out one of these is actually ground tea, I'm None of them are ground tea. It's all coffee, I promise. So what is number two? I'm going to just check, 'cause I feel like this is the one. Which given I wrote it is a really strange thing to say. It's not. It's, I mean, that was one way you were sort of tripped semi-intentionally, because is really interesting to sort of understand what you're tasting. But I think of these... Yep, definitely that one. Would you say you, I think this... I do not dislike the taste, Yep. but my immediate thought tempered with a little or equivalent and a little bit of sugar. It's absent of defects in a way. It doesn't have any harshness. There's no unpleasant flavours there. There's a kind of core, It is the basic person's coffee. I can deal with that, that's fine. Like it is, I think, probably my if I was to be like, I mean, I'd lean towards but I like that a lot, too. It is just very drinkable. It feels nice to drink. What is it then? It's a coffee from Columbia. This is a good example that you would buy in most So, you know, the kind of wave of sort of modern specialty That's a very good example that we've been trying to All that's left for you to do So what we're going to do as an espresso, as an cappuccino, a little milk drink of some sort, Yeah. and as a filter coffee. And you can sort of understand a bit more about how you like to drink. Now you understand now we can do and then you'll end up should you want to go to a <i> (bright acoustic music)</i> So after a break where have made some things. They've made some things. I know that's espresso, That is espresso. 'Cause it's a tiny shot It is. I'm going to guess, flat white? A cappuccino, a little bit more foam. And then I was going to do but I thought, because you seem a little I can take it. Yeah, And that is something in a similar style with caffeine to the list. And it isn't really a Okay. That would be difficult. A chance for you just to kind of assess how you like your coffee made. All right. So I would say, here's your espresso. Yeah, I just take that. Give it a stir first. It's a-- Get a shot of that. There we go. Yeah. You see the foam's dissipated a little. Let's stir the foam back in. It's actually, the bottom of the drink has more dense liquid than at the top. So as you sip it, the drink would change, but if you're going to have All right, so this is decaf espresso with the coffee I chose. And it will be pretty intense. Ooh. Oh, wow! Okay. So-- <i>(laughs)</i> I can see why people like this! And as someone who likes I can suddenly I see why people like this. Yeah, good. It's good. Would happily. I won't. and I'll probably want to but- it's surprising to me. Many people are like, but it's too much,&quot; like that. It's a lot. I'm not, there's specific but I have no objection Decaf espresso is now absolutely on drinks that I will go, &quot;Yes. If you're offering, Have a little taste of this. You can give it a stir, too, I'd quite like, can I just try? Just go! Just go. Try the foam on top first. This is no-- 'Cause I can always So this is, a cappuccino is foamed milk on top of an espresso, is that right. So you're going to use this Right. And then we're going to dilute it back to a more normal strength And this is basically all milk with a shot of espresso in there? Yep. Oh. Ah. Okay, the foam's nice. Huh. I mean, that just tastes like which I don't think I would I think I'd have been so and the coffee notes, It's a great breakfast drink. That-- Yeah, it is. Ah, I like coffee now. You do? I'll take it. Yep. Mmm. That's so nice. Do you see why people-- That is so nice! All right, so, and the Now here, I'll pour One of these is caffeinated. One of these you've tasted before, and one of them is a sort of but caffeinated. So you should in theory. Now I can notice a difference there, and it's going to be I don't know if it's the brew process. I don't know if the The top of this is very smooth. There is no imperfection The top of this one has a little bit of some sort of thing on top. Almost like there's a or something there. So let's see. So this is the one without that oil, that a little bit of oil. Hmm. That doesn't do much for me. It's not unpleasant. It's-- Well, again, you're coming from a-- Yes, it- Yes. Then you went to very rich and sweet, and in contrast, this will suddenly feel Yes. But it has a little juiciness to it. There's a little acidity to it Yeah, that's fair. Different taste, definitely. Don't know what the note is. What's interesting to me that's relatively similar to right, but coffee is extremely diverse. Coffees from the neighbouring the same way that neighbouring chateaus produce different wines, so I can just get the stylistic ballpark. So it's a similarish level of acidity, similar level of texture and sweetness. This one I prefer. I think that is a very enjoyable coffee. I think this enjoyable I can't taste it, but I would presume, intense, but like you can understand the appeal of wanting to stand up and have a little espresso Yeah. 100%. Oh, yeah. If I ever go to somewhere that's what I'd order. Even if it's decaf, because this feels like an experience. It is like, order-- is hot sauce or something like that. It is like ordering something because there is so much Whereas this, I will This is really nice. That's lovely. I just like the idea of taking you from, &quot;I don't like coffee,&quot; to espresso. <i>(laughs)</i> You've taught me to like coffee. <i>(laughs) so I feel like I ticked that box. I'm kind of relieved. I was genuinely nervous &quot;This is all disgusting. I don't like anything,&quot; So was I. To be fair, that would have for the audience. No, this is... Thank you very much. My pleasure. <i>[Formatting: Caption+ by JS*