According to legend, one of the Persian caliphs decided to restore order in his country. And I must say that at court he had a lot, as he believed, of all sorts of different foreign spies. And he began to catch these spies and execute some spies. One morning he woke up, and he was very well guarded and believed that he could not be killed. He had very strong security. One morning he wakes up "If you don't stop it the thing at your head This note was written to him by Hasan Ibn Sabah or the Elder Let's talk about them today. Hello! I am Well, Assassins - this term is probably already in all kinds of movies, serials and comics. in English for murderers, It came from a sect created by Hassan a sect, but a whole state. but in general, such a philosophical socio-religious trend. and in fact everything began with religion. the divided peoples of the Arab East in passionate religion - and, in fact, this is the has almost come together, and it has not lasted the Islamic world is divided into two large Shiites and Sunnis. Talking about the history so we will briefly observe this topic. it occurs in the way people interpret or understand The same thing happened here. In the eighth century, Muslim community should be led by the elected Caliph, the transferred only to the direct descendant of the prophet. because exactly who must lead the Muslims.Here another our time. Or adherents of ismail. Ismail was the eldest son of the sixth Imam Ja'far al-Sadiq. That's not all. In the 11th century, a split occurred among the Ismailis. What happened? At that time Egypt was ruled by the Ali Mustali's younger son and Nizar's eldest son. Caliph. Just before his death, the Caliph changes youngest son Ali Mustali. A significant part to consider their eldest son Nizar as their leader. and in that prison he dies. The Nizari began the Nizari got a new Leader, social and spiritual at the He is a very educated person, according to legend, particular, with the famous poet Omar Khayyam, He was an educated person, a very passionate, modern terms, he was both a social leader and a spiritual to follow him. The Nizarites flee from Egypt and There they find a fortress called Alamut. The fortress Here is the first legend about Hasan Sabah that the fortress, not numerous, to surrender and he captured Dear friends! We spend a huge amount of time We correspond with friends, look at the pictures and all a large number of applications, cutting off spam, convenient platform called Tenchat. It works without It's basically a mix of Facebook how it works. It's more in one application. There is a whole community freelancers, entrepreneurs, a huge number of professionals convenient, you customize Tenchat to suit your needs, indicate for you the necessary content and people with whom creators get free exposure for producing quality content. excellent network, both for business and a million users and there is a huge and new opportunities for you. application on my page there. Follow the link, In 1090, Sabah began to build his own state. Persia under the rule of the Seljuks. And now the Nizars starting to take over nearby fortresses, settlements, large were entrenched there. So, he builds his own state. which means a call for a new Faith. You can't call it a look at the term. What does Hassan do? territory of its state, replacing for which they are simply punishable that the Seljuks have established. form of taxes, in the form of a tribute construction of fortifications, the construction fortresses on the orders of Hassan. This religion trend that Hasan founded, on the one hand, he used Islam and on the other hand, he used such mystical and in the historical environment of any nation. is the 13th Imam? The 13th imam will face until the final judgment until the moment 13-th believers, through his messengers. In fact, the 13th imam Ibn Sabah, of course, began to impersonate the 13th imam. the Elder man in the mountain. Anyway, he wasn't an This means that the Elder man actually comes from the it was later transformed into European history, which you In different countries of Europe, there not actually die, but fell asleep beneath the mountain, gather the troops, take out the Sword and destroy the enemies. under the mountain, in Denmark there is such waiting for their moment, in Austria, in the Teutoburg who are not asleep. In general - every still sleeping. Merlin, who wasn't assassinated and he is they are waiting for their moment, that when some dangerous and, in fact, with their army of the dead, will then you remember that the future king of Mordor passed of the dead, who, with the king of the dead, initially hordes of hateful Orcs. Tolkien naturally showed this in this mixture of mystical and religious studies that Hasan the Seljuk, who were such high tempered peoples located in to fight with Hassan and with his young republic too. because indeed, for that moment it was a completely it was even more similar not to the feudal state republic Thomas More would later describe to us or Componella. return to it. In general, the Seljuks began to fight and in open And at the moment, a story is happening that pushes Hassan Ibn practical one. And at the moment, a story is happening that pushes a very practical one -why in an open field to resist hordes all their military leaders, clergymen, viziers, sultans, military simply chop off the heads of the enemy's leaders and they will The history of the Order of the Assassins begins in 1092 in they're afraid he's going to betray them to the authorities. and they keep everyone behind seven seals. The murderers were This information was subsequently given to the Elder of the he rises to the roof of one of the houses in Alamut just be a pleasing to God, but in general it is the sacred on the head of this damned Sultan. And a young man goes out, &quot;I am willing to do so&quot; and he goes to the Sultan. people. For several days, he went to the places visited by awaited him for several days. According to legend, in some niche in the palace, leaning Later, this will be a special test for all relaxes, our young man comes out of the niche and The sultan dies, the young man was murdered immediately also, which are named as the city wall of the name of the young man and the man whom will be a huge amount of those tablets. Because the Assassins will kill on the territory of the entire Arab world. Now actually, why do we call them - "assassins"? &quot;Assassins&quot;? This word comes from the original name Mountain. Their enemies called them Hashishids horrific crimes, according to this version. According the careless word "rabble", that is, these people who of view of the rest of the Muslim world. Subsequently, the Hashishids, the Assassins, and this in cinema. Now the Assassins are hired so many times. And then after the first First, about the management of this entire structure. Why did I say Republic. There was only one leader and he was the Elder of the Mountain Hassan Ibn Sabah. There were no castes, riches were forbidden by law. It was a country of equals, it was ruled by was subordinated to Hasan directly. Accordingly, religion were just the most severe. Hassan, according to on suspicion that he was preparing some kind of conspiracy are very afraid of conspiracies. And it means he killed his son. forbidden and he actually killed his son. The next daughters and he banished them to work as yarn-spinners ruthless toward his inner circle, towards his family. because of drinking wine does not match with the term how these assassins were trained in general, from childhood from a very young age and he makes their conscience so much that they did not understand what could that be? Wine was banned and most likely Therefore, it looks like this is a &quot;slander grandpa on the mountain or the Elder on the Mountain, I don't there was such a brutal paramilitary religious society, people is equal, everyone is controlled by the communities, respectively, and Hasan started building his own story of hired killers. Nizari. They led a much closed way of life. They let nobody come to their enemies. Sure, the enemies were speculated and imagined there, but there were hardly What do we know from the legends? They were recruited note this fact, they were not called &quot;assassins&quot; or They were such persons, who set out on the path of this for the glory of God. Those boys were taken trained most severely: they had to be able to fight, and that only existed at that time - a bow with the Crusaders, to throw a spear, to throw knives. torment at the time of the internship, at the time of training, leaning in one position, without changing their poses with three or four more powerful adversaries. The came and knocked at the door, they were kicked out of there. from above. The third time, they were beaten with to go through their ritual to prove that they are with knives and beaten with clubs, they did whatever they recognize familiar notes there? This is a &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; no mercy and felt no pain. And the story about how to is "Valar Morghulis"- also the second story that was train them. And here is another important this story about the 13th Imam. How? and said, "I am Hasan Ibn Sabah, somehow. And after that, I got up and set myself on fire.&quot; devoured him completely. The next morning, the house and said: "So, what about the flame, by the way? You saw So there I am. Look and feel!." Of course, this made as the Copperfield towers later. The second story is that? A hole bursts in the stone floor where the young Around it are two halves of a copper dish becomes severed. Ibn Sabah has talked to his followers: understand about my teaching, let us ask the deceased what was your battle with the vizier you killed &quot;Great Old Man, I want to tell you the following story". &quot;He animates the dead!&quot; Naturally, the young were no lies - the dead head was talking. everybody tremble. The third story is The youths were fed with hashish until they lost the courtyard. In this inner courtyard, they woke up, indescribable, wine, sweets, fruits. They lived in this put to sleep again and brought back, Ibn Sabah said to and you will get there after you complete my again (sure, who wouldn't?) So, now you know you will.&quot; just accepted it all with a bang. possible without the wise, without the scientists, and brought to Alamut. From that place, they did to Hasan and involved in his entire you must know how to kill. You need to be able As a result, all restrictions are removed from which Hasan ibn Sabah ordered, convert to Christianity, live as a Christian, him in church. Nothing was forbidden there. You must have spoken the languages of the region and very extraordinary killers. One of the and drew the enemy commanders one by one when they came (I'll tell you later), Monferath was first a friend of Hassan he robbed Nizar merchants, and Hassan ordered said we were the most devout Christians you'd went to a mass of people, and in one of the masses Conrad of Montferath in the chest, poisoned. Weapons are -all weapons used were poisoned, and there was no way to survive. at the hands of Conrad's guards. Then the second assassin the way people act. Naturally, a cult that obeys horror to the entire Arab world. And one by one, one by one, which began to cut and And the Seljuk state began to weaken. stabbed-fools, they try to replace them. insane people come to replace them. just destroyed them) was hardly degraded At the Seljuks a feud began. anymore. Crusaders show up. (Watch fighting the local Muslims. Here is the main enemies of the assassins are the Templars. The thing is that - the old man from the mountain to fight the Crusaders, he thought, &quot;Okay, the Crusaders on the orders of the Crusaders, killed the Seljuks. he killed Conrad, King of Jerusalem, without sight. ordered by Richard the Lionheart, who quarreled King of Jerusalem. Well, at some point, they were Another of Hassan's victims was great-grandson of Anna Yaroslavna, Queen of France, and daughter on the hands of the assassins too. I have to say that power. More people have applied to the Elder center. If you ordered it will not work anymore because If you ordered Khalifa, befriended him after, and later said: will not work anymore because this man will die anyway. It was semi-historical and historical, you will find a quote that I honestly don't believe that because how would In our days, you can get on a plane and fly to the territory of kill a man in Paris&quot;. "No problem, now the killer so no killer had been in Western Europe. and the Knights Templar spread the story of the our courts. We can identify them, and we can gained political weight. But Elder of the Mountain. Crusaders got the same feeling. or Saladin, who fought Richard the Lionheart, He quarreled with the mountain Elder, and according one resulting in serious injury. But he survived and somehow. So you imagine what it was. They were all shadows that comes to you, that gets you closest servant who might be with some poisoned dart. That's the kind of people Speaking of unquestioning obedience, I should the Elder of the Mountain. Hasan Ibn Sabah calls himself the Elder of the mountain. At some point, at his court in 1130. He was around, Here he comes to this impregnable fortress to talk. Henri says: &quot;Well, dear Elder of the Mountain, He says, &quot;Oh, I don't know&quot;. Two young guys and they fall and crash. He says: themselves in the throat if you do not believe, Such is the legend of unquestioning obedience. die. People have fanatically been wine, or just this mystical story about the 13th imam. about unquestioning submission. After Hasan Why? Because heirs do not want to be the same women, wine, and drugs. We do not know exactly much about it). But history is not silent about luxury. to crumble because elites are emerging. The elite got which is found in ruins later. the seams. It has been around for some time. of assassins is still alive and reaches our days is the Assassins- the people who can five seconds. In June 1256, the kingdom of Lord Alamut, came to an end. The new wave was coming that Europeans, and no Arabs, nobody. I'm talking about the Mongols. the state of Alamut, and began to take the fortress by cutting out the garrison, and they approached Alamut. but then according to legend one of the traitors All people are being slaughtered. By the beginning of 1257 fortresses of Lamasar, which resists for another year, and the Mongols will capture her only 20 years later. and the unshakeable Assassins. Nevertheless, the fortress - 10,000 Nazarites they slaughter, and the some hides in the Iranian mountains, to legend, the ties between them remain. This whole find because they're all scattered in the Middle East. about myths and legends. About hashish, I have already came up by Marco Polo himself, who traveled in by one old woman. And so, before the assassin completes the gets smoked hash there, and sees all this he wants to go back there. He has been told: &quot;Kill into the Garden of Eden.&quot; This is why the assassins, smile on their lips even under the cruelest torture. to heaven. That is the story that Marco Polo created It doesn't comply with the strictest bans on Also, the story is turbid. And about the Templars. not strong then. The Hashshashin would take orders they do not run counter to the interests of Alamut, history of this order, shrouded in such a plume that for 200 years, they have kept all the fear. And they dealt with it perfectly. Rumor I got 15 from various sources, but brass plates. The killer's name and the victim's name to be realistic. Here it was possible to put a pointed end to it, as a religious movement alive up to now. scattered around the surrounding countries, as I told you. They begin to manifest and intensify, their rites, but no one disturbs them. At some moment, there was some friction between the spiritual movement. They argued with him, and where he found himself. Ismailis were pursued but any friendliness. and they were forced to to Pakistan to survive. Because of the group of very religious people. And in the 19th century. And where do you think the He goes to UK. In the United Kingdom, he many come with it, and they integrate into them. And they're doing pretty well. day. Naturally, there is the general mystical knowledge of the Assassins, the secret knowledge of the Ismailis, to the Freemasons (watch this video), and then to the Illuminati thus, this secret sect controls theories are probably not only conspiracy theories. You know what a handsome British aristocrat, a billionaire. I have seen him twice most likely heard, about the fashionable resort of Sardinia. Yes, the sea is clear there. Yes, "It's so beautiful! Very beautiful! Let's build a but short-sighted, I need to say. How did they think? a daughter and a son, the son gets a good house the elements, the pirates will not come to you, eat meat live perfectly all life. And the daughter huddle. Agha Khan bought all these shacks. On this site now, Esmeralda looks like today. These are some of the best houses resort. There is only such a small part in the conspiracy. was the founder of the international society for the protection Refugees. And he was nominated by the British, whether as exactly) for a leader of the United Nations organization, Afghan Refugee Relief Organization. English instructors deployed all their camps All humanitarian operations under the leadership Afghan territory. If you click on Wikipedia, and his work experience in different organizations. He is known many issues practically. He is well-known in Uzbekistan, I mean, he's got interests here, got business a great patron, and I have to say, he still very well-known. There's no conspiracy anymore. French ethnographer named Jean Millor, and I But there is such evidence that he was Ismailis, who still live in Pakistan. still paying tithes. And that's why he's so Ismailis-Assasin, broken once by Hulagu Khan and to lives. So, you know, in you know, and conspiracy is conspiracy. a part of the legend. Everything else is true. That was thank you for the number of views. 2 million views already. It is Incredible! That is the most Yugoslavia videos, which you also watch very well. Like, to delight you with amazing historical videos.