This little CRT video monitor from JVC is While it may look like an unassuming, and it's actually quite remarkable. If you know a thing or two about color CRT televisions when you get up close and personal with it. See, you won't find any phosphor dots or Nu-uh. That's because this monitor is actually Let me show you. If I do a little... unauthorized disassembly, staring at you clear as day. If I pump some video into it you'll discover a black and white picture tube. We can see the video scan-lines created as clear as day. And, of course, everything looks either black, But, just by placing this little cover in And a pretty good one, too. This is some freaky stuff man! Color, black and white, color, black and white! I could do this all day... but instead let's This monitor is using a technology which JVC Liquid Crystal Color Shutter. See, this cover isn't just there for style In fact, it creates the color image in conjunction You might be familiar with the active shutter technology These glasses have liquid crystal shutters in each eye which alternately block your left eye and then your right from seeing what's in front of you. If you coordinate that with back and forth in tandem with the glasses, This shutter, though, is a little different. Rather than blocking all light, it can select either red, green, or blue. If it does that fast enough, you won't be And, so long as the color-switching is carefully can create a color image by first drawing then a green one, and then a blue one. So long as the color shutter can match itself it will appear as a full-color image. Now aside from just being... well nifty, this both to a modern technology and a much, much Let's start with the newer tech, first. DLP projectors (and not long ago, televisions) a color image. See, on its own, DLP technology (which stands for Digital Light Processing) can't produce color. DLP works by shining a bright light source known as a Digital Micro-mirror Device, or DMD. Microscopic mirrors on its surface can reflect a voltage applied to them causes them to pivot. In practice these mirrors become pixels, and the mirror so that if reflects light from onto the screen. If you want the pixel to be black, you tilt reflected onto a black surface inside the Although the mirrors have only a binary state, grey by dithering them, or moving them back But, you may have noticed, that there's Very expensive DLP projectors, like those one for each color component of the RGB space, and place a color wheel in between the The color wheel is made of sections of dichroic green, and blue light. Sometimes there's a white section, too, When the projector (or rear-projection television) to color the output from the DLP chip red, And, since the DLP chip is wicked fast, you three monochrome images in sequence, so long as you do it fast enough for persistence of vision to kick in. This is what causes the rainbow effect you screen or certain televisions. When you move your eyes quickly, you'll streak of red green and blue. This is particularly noticeable during credits The only way to prevent this is to use three expensive, you'll see the rainbow effect And, to make the matter even more complex, others, and in fact some people may never It may not surprise you, then, that the rainbow I don't know if I'll be able to replicate What I know I can do is take a slow motion Now, fair warning, this is extremely flickery, for you, please look away until I say "persnickety" I don't *yet* have a high-speed camera which but you can at least tell that the entire screen is being colored red, green, and blue, in rapid succession. Unfortunately, the nature of the camera's combined with the way CRTs are scanned, makes this kind of... suck but I think you get the idea. In fact, keen eyes may notice that the color can follow the path of the electron beam as Persnickety. Now let's talk about that CBS thing I mentioned I've covered this in some earlier videos days of color television, there were two competing CBS wanted to use conventional black and white times in rapid succession, and a spinning Really, it's just a scaled-up version of Their system worked really well, and was a But, while building color television sets easy, this new color television signal would black-and-white signals, and thus existing RCA managed to win this fight by fudging the signal into it using weird math and stuff, These televisions required entirely new picture three cameras in one, but since these new and white televisions, it made the transition So, in a weird way, this monitor is harkening It's using a more modern equivalent of the same principle. Now, you may have realized that in order to processing wizardry. It has to take normal NTSC or PAL analog video signals, then draw them sequentially. It can't just draw them at the same time like all other televisions do. And that probably explains why this technology didn't appear in televisions until the year 2000, when this was released. It was some pretty expensive stuff. Not the actual picture tube or even the color to turn a normal television signal into a In fact this itty-bitty monitor sold Yikes! But, it did have some serious advantages. I've shown you this little television before, The image on the LCCS monitor is night-and-day Small, color CRTs tend to just... not be very a liquid crystal color shutter provided a But the real selling point for this tech was bright conditions. The color shutter improved contrast quite would be on-location shoots for things like Bright light around the screen wouldn't in fact it's claimed it could be seen in direct sunlight. That said, there are some disadvantages, too. The color is just... OK. It seemed fairly washed out to me, and I needed to get what I'd call "normal" colors. I'm guessing this is simply due to the fact produce quite as pure of a red, green, or Colors also shift with differing viewing angles, the LC shutter itself, imparting faint horizontal And perhaps most importantly, scaling this large color shutters, and who knows how practical Now I'm sure some of you have been screaming in fact some of you are probably already writing furious comments about this, so here goes. It was not JVC who developed this technology. It was the oscilloscope manufacturer Tektronix it in 1983. Giving it the name NuColor, their motivation behind it was pretty clear as using a dot-mask CRT would suuuuuuck for oscilloscope applications. Using a phosphor-dot free CRT would fill with said someone at Tektronix probably. So, they came up with the idea of using an coloration AFTER the image had been drawn. Pretty neat thinking. As far as why it took nearly two decades for monitors, well again that's probably due to extract and store the R, G, and B components could be re-displayed sequentially. Interestingly, I can't find any reference itself to any patents at all, let alone those Their patent didn't expire until 2004, so it from Tektronix. Or perhaps the Tektronix patent just didn't apply Or some other thing happened. But in any case, I do think it's pretty a color television monitor at least once. It's not exactly the same as the CBS color of what that world would have looked like. Thanks for watching! I told myself I was going to make a quick Wow! Many thanks are owed to patron Brendan Terrett I had no idea these existed and it's a perfect It's also just... really neat! And of course, thank you to everyone who supports going to the folks scrolling up your screen. If you'd like to support my work with a clicking the link in the description or on Thanks for your consideration, and I'll cleverly smooth jazz Oh, [expletive]! Ha ha! I can't see... (wheezy laughs) I can't see the teleprompter with these on! (clears throat) You might be familiar with the active shutter... Active shutter? You might be familiar with the active shutters used in some 3D glasses... (exasperation sound) Hey there. Not too many bloopers today, huh? That's OK. The music is fun, too. Oh, and that thing the LC color shutter does is trippy and weird. Glad I realized that. Helps make up for the lack of bloopers. Do you know why chicken coops have two doors? Well, if they had four they'd be chicken sedans. This is not what captions are generally used for, but I don't play by the rules! LIQUID CRYSTAL COLOR SHUTTER LIQUID CRYSTAL COLOR SHUTTER LIQUID CRYSTAL COLOR SHUTTER COLOR WITH A WEIRD TRICK SHUTTER POWER!!!