On an autumn evening in 1989, Tom McMahon noticed his Los Angeles neighborhood. As more and more test equipment, and tanks of liquid nitrogen, his a look. He learned that a high voltage underground costing the City tens of thousands of dollars Over the next few months, he got more acquainted and he shared all the fascinating details on his company's mailing list. wildfire across various bulletin boards, I don't remember exactly how old I was when I one of the very first times that I realized how I figure if it had such a big impact on especially because there's a recent update at interested and engaged in their constructed basically my entire goal with these videos). In today's episode, we're discussing the How do you get electricity from where That's the job of high voltage transmission of the voltage and current in a transmission line. you need less current to deliver the same do. Transformers at power plants boost the voltage three separate lines, called phases), reducing from the resistance of conductors. High voltages they create a new set of challenges. High voltage it also tends to arc through the air (which is not objects. The conventional solution is to string high enough to avoid contact with trees and human They keep enough distance between each line so Unfortunately, stringing high voltage lines with the local residents, especially in dense engineers in LA were deciding how to expand from the Scattergood power plant to the they tried something that was relatively they ran the line underground. Three would deliver enormous amounts of electricity over in West Los Angeles, powering hundreds However, putting high voltage lines below the When strung across towers, the conductors or 3 meters of clearance to avoid arcs. The electricity constrained within the conductors. So and cram them into a single, small pipe running than just air. One of the more popular options of cables. This design starts with installation vaults spaced along the way. Copper conductors are Next, a protective layer of wire called to protect the paper from damage and allow for The conductors are pulled through and then spliced together at each vault. it's slowly filled with a non-conductive This oil impregnates the paper insulation around that prevents arcs from forming, even with the another and the surrounding steel pipe. At the away heat generated from losses in the conductors. the paper insulation and fills every nook and plastic insulation around an extension cord, even arcs to form because of the extreme voltages. So, around 14 times normal atmospheric pressure or The rating of a transmission line (in other words, based on temperature. All conductors (with rare electric current, and that creates heat which will if it builds up. The more heat you can remove, That's a major benefit of pipe-type oil-filled heat sink that can be circulated to keep the forming in the lines. At each end of the pumps and tanks to pressurize - and often to This particular transmission line in LA At the end of each cycle, the pumps reverse through the pipe. Some systems are this pumping is a slow process. You're not trying to the other, but rather simply get it to move a temperatures and minimize the possibility However, even at that slow speed, you can't I have a video all about a phenomenon called you want to learn more after this, but I'll and rapidly changing its velocity can create be a problem in residential homes when taps quickly. You might hear a pipe knocking against rupture a line. However, in large pipelines reversing a pump can be the equivalent of To avoid spikes in pressure which could damage end of the Scattergood-Olympic line would spend oil down, providing a smooth transition to flow Circulating the dielectric oil helps to keep along the line, but can't control how that average don't deliver a constant current. Rather the demand which changes on a minute by minute being turned on or off. When demands fluctuate, and so the amount of heat in the line increases many materials expand or contract with changes conductors used in underground transmission lines. they often move and flex in a process If not carefully designed, these bends can become cable, exceeding the allowable stresses within the TMB, the paper insulation around each conductor to a dielectric breakdown (in other words, larger diameter splices into narrower sections That's what happened in 1989 to the the LA Department of Water and Power could Locating a fault in an underground line is interesting types of equipment that can be used. the line, but they couldn't identify the fault. method of transmitting a waveform through the results weren't conclusive. They also used impulses of high voltage into the cable. When electrical arc which can be heard as a thump above with a microphone and digital filters. Going from crews used car batteries and voltmeters to take tap points to precisely identify the location Once found, the challenge of repairing How do you fix an insulated conductor inside liquid nitrogen, of course. Pumping all the oil It couldn't be stored and reused after the contaminants that would reduce the oil's dispose of it and replace it with new oil, a long time to get in such an incredible quantity, Even more importantly, relieving the could allow gas bubbles to form inside the layers and creating new places for faults to form. The using liquid nitrogen, which is usually around end of the section to be repaired. This allowed Losing these plugs would be a catastrophe, creating an eruption of high-pressure into the environment, so the repair crew California as contingency to ensure that the oil Unfortunately, after taking x-rays they realized that many of the cables' splices due to thermomechanical bending. After coming be a quick fix, the Department of Water and and implement preventative measures Aluminum collars were installed at key locations of the cable. This was done in a semi-clean requirements to prevent contaminants from finding and tens of millions of dollars worth of out of Tom's neighborhood, and the underground There's an update to Tom's story to bring line's troubles didn't end with the work in 1989. was continuing to degrade, and outages on reliability of their transmission network Water and Power began developing a replacement with polyethylene instead of high pressure oil. public meetings, design, and construction, The original transmission line is still in place As a part of my research for this story, I spoke his writeup spread across the early internet, it offices of the LA Department of Water and Power, a neatly printed version that may or may not Huge thanks to Tom for taking the time all for large-scale infrastructure, thanks to Jamie and thank you for watching.