- I can't believe this is - [Markus] Welcome to It's the largest collection of endangered tropical Some were even thought to be extinct until just a couple of years ago. - Look at this baby. - To find these so-called lost species, the Ark sends experts into the vast and and they have just discovered new evidence of an animal that has But is it still out there? And can we bring it back from the brink? Cameron from Planet Wild is joining them on an epic journey into misty to search for the lost frogs of Ecuador. If we can find them, we could and help them fight a deadly pandemic that is killing frogs all over the world. We are Planet Wild, welcome to Mission 16. - Where I'm standing is just and this stunning landscape the most endangered animals And we are going on a The mild and moist climate is perfect for frogs, so over hundreds of millions of years they've evolved in an There are now 625 known and they're the beating heart of wild ecosystems all over the world. They're prey to larger animals and predators of smaller invertebrates, so they sit right in the cycling nutrients up and down the chain and providing that essential stability. If we lose them, it would of countless ecosystems. Insect populations could explode unchecked and predators that feed on frogs would be forced into fiercer with all kinds of knock-on effects and local biodiversity collapse. Basically, we need frogs. - But their incredible before our very eyes. Today, two out of five frog species are threatened with extinction and 174 of them have These are the so-called lost species. With no known surviving population, they haven't been seen in decades and are likely to never be seen again. But there's one place to find and bring back - And this is the Jambatu Centre, otherwise known as the Ark of the Frogs. Honestly, it's like and we get to go inside. (bright music) It's the largest frog in South America, located in the heart of Ecuador. I can't believe this is It is the second largest of And this beautiful, monstrous is one of a few that came out of an here in the Jambatu Centre. First, they set out to go deep in the forest. Then they breed them to Finally, they'll release a with just the right conditions. This way, a once-decimated Since I was a child I've kind and so it's a pretty big especially because I'm who is a bit of a hero and definitely more obsessed than I am. This is Jaime. He's a renowned frog and his research has taken him on countless expeditions into the wild to search for survivors - Look at this baby. And his love for these - When I was young, I started to go to the I started to see nature and &quot;Wow, they are absolutely It was an obsession. - We're here to join Jaime because the lab has discovered evidence of the existence of two frog species in two different locations. Both of them were thought to be lost. Now we're going on a quest to find them. First, we're using a new method called environmental DNA, or eDNA. By testing the water of we have revealed genetic traces of a frog that hasn't been seen called Atelopus arthuri. The DNA evidence tells us that living by the Tatahuazo River, deep in the Andes Mountains. (bright music) Now all we need to do is find them. (bright music) This river is fed by which means our search area is The thing about arthuri is and perfectly camouflaged green and brown for this environment, so it's not an easy task. (bright music continues) - It's cold, it's starting to rain, so the weather is bad, Maybe if we are lucky we can find it. (bright music continues) When I am in the field, I feel peace. This is the happy place, my happy place, is to be at the pond. (bright music continues) (bright music ends) - So the team has been and now we only have one night left, so it's getting to be and a bit more desperate, to be honest. - Well, it's the last night. We didn't find it yet, but we never lose the hope. We know that it's here according to the information of the DNA, but we just need to Where are you? (gentle music continues) - So that's it, time's up. We couldn't do it, we couldn't find them. And just a devastating feeling, you know? And like some people might wonder what differences losing But because of how sensitive they are to environmental changes, their decline is like alarm sirens for wild ecosystems all over the world, and it just hits home - This is a reality check for all of us. The biodiversity crisis is here and it's making conservation work more difficult and more urgent. The reason that frogs are is due to two unique features Number one, they have that each require separate habitats. That means they can be in either aquatic or land environments. Number two, their unique make them very sensitive Since most amphibians through their skin, they do not have scales, That means pollution as well as bacteria and fungal infections And the same goes for and moisture levels, which are getting more and more extreme. And it's in that vulnerable situation that a deadly fungus called chytrid has spread like wildfire across the world, leading to a mass extinction of frogs. A truly dire situation, but Jaime and the team are convinced that recovery is possible. - And so we're not giving up hope, that is the last thing we can do. And luckily we have one more chance because the team has received a hot lead for a different frog species all the way up in the So it's a new day, we're back at it looking for And this time we've got some extra help from the local community (Klever speaking in Spanish) (Klever continues speaking in Spanish) (Klever continues speaking in Spanish) - The knowledge of local communities is essential to the Ark's work, and Klever is a devoted protector With his extensive he's guiding us on our search. (gentle music continues) The species we're looking for this time was first rediscovered in 2012 Or at least that's one hypothesis, because there's also a chance that it might be an entirely In any case, this frog is insanely rare, and the Ark desperately build up their numbers before it's too late. (bright music continues) You would think that I'd be getting better at this, but no. (bright music continues) The night has fallen, it's (bright music continues) (bright music continues) (river whooshing) (team member shouts in Spanish) - Klever found one. (bright music continues) (team members shouting and laughing) - Oh my God. What a moment. It feels way bigger than I mean, not to mention the that we've been on this week, but finding this individual I'm just so happy. We're back in the lab that we found in the wild, and it's a healthy male. So the first crucial step is complete. - And the best part, this success was made possible by the Planet Wild community. We are funding missions If you wanna chip in, check And we're not stopping here because to start a breeding programme, we still need to find a female. That's why Planet Wild is funding a total of 50 expedition for a female partner and of course to head to find arthuri. If we're successful, the Ark can once again earn its name and kickstart the process of repopulating the lost frogs of Ecuador. And that's where the lab work will start. And we're stepping up for a full year of So this is a mission with an open ending. And of course, we'll share and here on YouTube. It's that open-endedness, that makes the dedication all the more inspiring. They know that if we're back from the edge, it's not going to be easy. And their work holds a facing the biodiversity crisis today. That we have to keep going. That the only thing worse is not trying at all. So what can you do next? Join Planet Wild with the or the QR code over here, or watch another video over here. (gentle music continues) (gentle music fades out)