Hey you, that's right you sitting there behind your lazy keister! Get up on those feet you bum, because today when you don't get to sit for a whole week! The Infographics office is as fond of reading it comes to sitting or standing it seems scientists So for the sake of our viewers, we decided case to figure out just how bad standing can our staff saw a documentary on flamingos and be like to just stand all day? We're doing real science here, folks, and your favorite lab rat, and our writer with on the job! Day 1: No sitting for a week. I read the words over and over again in my Is this even humanly possible? I guess it's my job to find out. Alright, so I immediately thought about how I went online to find out if there was a world of records set by average joes. Things like- and no I'm not making any of ball on nose while standing', 'longest time and my personal favorite, 'largest group to foot'. Apparently you can just submit your own video can be for literally anything someone else By the way, this site appears to be quite like half the records. Way to go India, you guys are the world record I found another site where world records for an Indian man- no surprise there- once stood and 22 minutes, stopping only due to an insect It must've been one heck of an insect bite. I couldn't find any records for people actually I definitely don't plan on standing still, and trying to be as perfectly still as possible I'll be living my normal life, just no sitting How I'm actually going to do this is another The rules are that I have to remain standing No, I can't cheat going from standing to laying touching the ground the whole time. This is going to be insane, but I figure that Day 2: Alright, yesterday was the most exhausting I can physically accomplish this entire challenge. My day started out normal enough I guess. I got up out of bed and kissed sitting down shower. The girlfriend and I have this game now where unless they're taking me out of the house instead she has to guess what it is based She's smart as a whip that one, and the moment up she guessed that I wasn't allowed to sit. She laughed, then asked me for how long, and She said that she doesn't think that 7 days with her. Then she asked how I would feel because of injuries, and I kind of shrugged it off. Thing is, she's right. Due to some pretty severe bone fractures and have the stamina I used to and my back and I almost got a medical discharge after fracturing of recuperation I showed up at training wearing need to be discharged. It practically killed me, but I managed to Maybe now it's clear why I'm so determined so seriously. I do not make it a habit of quitting. So today I found out how hard-wired we are I went throughout my day and kept having to chair nearby. It was just sort of a reflex, and even when lunch I had to remind myself not to sit at I guess we really don't realize just how much Of course I had to walk to that Panda Express, I'm thinking though that I might buy one of walking around all day long is kind of exhausting. First day was rough, not going to lie. I'm in good shape, but standing all day is Especially when your back and hip is completely Sleeping was interesting. I took inspiration from a documentary I saw On the ISS, astronauts actually crawl inside up so that they don't just float around in I don't know, I think if I was an astronaut, It must feel amazing, though I guess bumping Anyways, so I took a sleeping bag and cut I ran 550 cord- some of you may know it as then wrapped it from the top of the door to Then what I was left with was a sleeping bag door. Sleeping was as easy as sliding inside and times from the bottom of the door to the top keep me up. The girlfriend had a difficult time adjusting She said that I looked like a man-insect in of really freaked her out to see me just hanging Also she was worried that the cord would snap middle of the night, but I reassured her that of being able to hold at least 550 pounds. It was originally used in parachutes after I'm not going to lie, sleeping standing up in zero G. It was not pleasant at all, but luckily I did manage to fall asleep. Lurching forward the entire time was incredibly crick in my neck, so I managed to flip around reclining position instead. That made sleeping easier, but in all seriousness, of all time. It's a new day though, and I'm not looking Day 3: Last night's sleep was likely worse I managed to give the cord keeping my sleeping reclining more while still staying up on my challenge ever. To add insult to injury, the girlfriend got and in her groggy half-asleep state she forgot she came back in and the door barely budged She-Hulked the door backwards and smacked Yeah. Honestly, I'm hating this challenge. My second day of no sitting was worse than I tried to keep myself busy, but my back is work was out of the question. The one person who's ecstatic about this challenge walks today just so I could keep myself away The girlfriend and I had our date night yesterday, ruin it. I had to think about what in the world we sit inside a car, and I got a brilliant idea. I dug up our old rollerblades that we haven't Then we rollerbladed down to the beach, taking We spent the evening going through an art then played our favorite game: we separate far away from the other, then approaches and The object of the game is to try to 'pick outrageous pick-up lines we can think of. We play this game everywhere, and typically pick-up lines. One time we were at a very fancy lounge and her a drink, only to have me come back, look a boxer? Because you're a knockout!" Then she started laughing so hard she almost by the collar of my shirt and kissed me- all By the way, tonight's winning line? It came from her rollerblading up and asking, Cuz you Israeli hot!" I gotta admit, she's not as creative as I Despite this ridiculous challenge, still managed I wasn't allowed to sit in a car and drive It's been a while since we just went out without liked the fact that we didn't have to be doing This morning I woke up with some pretty severe A lot of it I think is my body and old injuries, just standing all the time. Sleep is damn near impossible, and I think sleeping in the most uncomfortable places more than an hour or two. If the military teaches you one thing, it's I'm not looking forward to a third day of Day 4: Alright, I had to throw in the towel I believe that this is officially the first I've failed one other challenge before, but know exactly which one that is by the way. I managed to power through my day, but it The girlfriend could tell how much of a toll very sweetly tried to rub my shoulders and could. She told me that she can already feel knots Normally I have to follow a pretty strict back and legs from aching and hurting, and lay or sit. Honestly, I can deal with the terrible quality jerry rigged, it's the creaking aches and Maybe if I had tried this when I was younger, almost a hundred pounds on my back. I had an interpreter once tell me that Taliban because of the ridiculous amount of gear we I'll also admit that rollerblading for a few as I thought. That exhausted my legs, and while we had a drained my stamina for this stupid challenge. Also do you have any idea how hard it is to can't sit? I had to hang on to the girlfriend the entire I'm not a fan of quitting anything, no matter sometime late last night my legs literally I got a horrible cramp in my left leg and of my sleeping bag cocoon. I got up, determined to keep going anyways had woken up and was really concerned. She told me no, she was pulling the plug on her. I really did want to keep going, I probably like she always says, but it's important to She insisted though, in the very stern way a year, with something she is not willing These things are almost always related to I guess I do have a habit of putting all three The only other time she's done it this year a full-sized Xenomorph from the movie Alien, I mean it was awesomely life-sized too, it up in the middle of the night to go to the likely lead to a heart attack. So I've failed my challenge, and the girlfriend's session with our local Thai massage place. I go from time to time for a deep tissue massage, are absolutely brutal. If the CIA wants 'enhanced interrogation techniques' little ladies go at the bodies of terrorists It works though, and you may leave in a world your muscles are gone. What did I learn from my three days of standing Honestly, not much other than the fact that Maybe if I was younger and 'fresher' I could've how hard-wired we are to want to sit when It's practically an instinct- if you fit, Also, eating your food while standing is just leave bed and had to eat everything lying At least you don't feel like you're choking 0/10, would not repeat. Worst challenge ever. For more challenges and other great videos video instead over here!