Translator: Martina Cavallo Let's begin with an icebreaker. It's called think-pair-share. The instructions are really simple. First, think. Begin with a moment of reflection. Close your eyes, Preferably, one you have never shared Second, pair. Choose a partner. Ideally, someone you do not know And finally, share. Share your very personal secret Sharers, use specific, to really bring the experience to life. And listeners, listen close. Your next step will be to roleplay and replay the scene for catharsis and, (Laughter) Are you ready? Okay, I don't really want you (Laughter) And thank you for not (Laughter) I begin with this icebreaker because I want to show two things the experience of life and the need to communicate I threw you off balance with my terrible, And had I actually proceeded you would have later felt the need whether when a friend asked you, (Laughter) or in an angry e-mail to the organizers I'm a poet and a poetry teacher, so I spend my time that knock us off balance. Both the good: love, birth, joy; and the devastating: loss, death and pain. I explore how we poets give form utilizing poetry's precision, to move, console and inspire. One of the lessons that not only are we all linked by these experiences but we're also linked by the fact that we could all explore and gain from our poetic explorations. The first half of the title of my talk is because the goal of my talk is to show you that you already have everything The experiences of love and loss, To put a twist on one of the world's you're a poet and I'm about to show it. How do I know you're a poet? I know this because I know To express sensory experience, This is what we poets do when we create with imagery, I want to give you so that you can employ them the way a poet does. To stir our senses, move our emotions and see our own in the new way. Since poetry is such a hands-on process, I will introduce you to the tools both my own and yours. In order to do this, This is Blair. This picture was taken where Blair and I performed songs I first met Blair in 1992 We formed a strong and enduring friendship Together we performed in plays we wrote and made movies, and we learned covers This, to give you a sense is a picture of me, in makeup, as the villain of the not-yet-released We wrote, shot and edited We actually hadn't made we just thought it'd be awesome (Laughter) In January of 2009, Beyond the life and art, a struggle with mental illness. A struggle that brought us closer together but also had the power to push us apart. I think about him and miss him every day; which means I write about him, To go along with the eulogy poems I've written a two-line poem I will walk you through my process and, I hope, power of poetry. The power to help us Before doing so though, I want you and take a moment This might be someone or long ago. This might be someone Take a moment to remember. Now, throughout the remainder of my talk, or compose in your mind as we share this process of writing, So, one of the first things I think of The punch of the sudden burst often with a wheezer too, as he had to toss back his grinning face There was a real materiality to it. You could feel his laugh in your body, as you inevitably started laughing too. This description of my friend's laughter and our first step, compose an image Imagery is language and in turn stimulates This is one of the core powers of poetry: to preserve and share There are many types of imagery: and more internal sensations, Let's take a moment with the writing exercise promoted I will ask a few questions to prompt you, and I invite you to write down your lines When you remember the person you lost, What smell do you associate with them? What food or drink What was the feel of their touch? In composing your image, one of the most fertile approaches what about this individual I miss Blair's laughter; the sweetness of the decadent lattes we treated ourselves to the burn of cigars on poker night; and the chords we struck You may also consider giving form The odd sight, weird smell For an example of the unexpected touch, I can return to the day During a fight scene, he hit me so hard that I nearly passed out. And this goose egg was so big Of course, we had to keep so viewers would understand why my character had suddenly grown Alternately, you may write through the absence of sensory experience. I say this because what I am what brings me the most pain, The silence of his phone. The silence of his phone and I didn't call him back. I will take this lack of sound &quot;Your silent phone When I asked you what sight, sound, smell, taste or touch If you haven't already, in a word, phrase or line. Other powers of poetry are the capacity to reveal truth, One of the main ways poets accomplish this whether through a simile, or a metaphor, a more direct comparison In his poem Fork, as &quot;the strange thing a bird's foot hung Langston Hughes in his poem Harlem uses simile to meditate &quot;What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun? Or does it fester like a sore Thylias Moss employs metaphor the transition from youth to adulthood as &quot;the arrival of knowledge For your poem, you can make Your image is or is like blank. And to fill this blank, from nature's animals, to humankind's creations, Though you may wish to focus on material whether occupations, hobbies, The act of actually creating is really this simple. Compare. Connect. For example, the microphone the room lifts like a balloon; the mind is a dam that stills or the mind is a raging river that bursts every dam A good simile or metaphor will possess of trueness and newness. However, the key to beginning is not worrying about the quality Just write and let Let's take a moment Return to the image and expand it I will again ask and I want you to write down without judging what arises. Which animal is your image similar to? Which season is it most like? If your image were a sport or a game, When undertaking this exercise alone, choose a simile or metaphor and expand the comparison Why is this image like this season? For example, I could compare This connection to the cold lack of growth The next step is to tease out I could explore how his silent phone is or I could compare our favorite game to play together, and expand this further by writing, in which the cards are glued to the table Or I could combine winter and poker, return to my original image &quot;Your silent phone Once again - I encourage you to expand your image Your image is or is like blank. Our final power of poetry is its capacity to rouse pleasure The most obvious way poets do this, Here's a prime example &quot;You either build or destroy, The Magnolia projects Hum, it's quite amazing and that you shine The power here arises not only but also from their placement. For example, beginning a line &quot;hum&quot; with what had been the end rhyme or the wonderful internal rhyme &quot;you grew&quot; Even in poetry that doesn't rhyme, poets still often work Two means of accomplishing this Alliteration is characterized as in &quot;termite tract trees&quot; Assonance, by contrast, is characterized as in &quot;the breeze is fleet and brief&quot; Take for example William Wordsworth's Reflections upon Nature In nature, he hears &quot;oftentimes nor harsh nor grading, to chasten and subdue.&quot; Note the musical centering he builds &quot;Oftentimes the still sad music.&quot; And note, too, how he employs assonance via &quot;sad&quot; and &quot;ample,&quot; We can return to our own two lines then and revise them to heighten the music Alternately, you may work if it better suits your desired effect. Here once again is my developing poem. &quot;Your silent phone And here are my lines &quot;Your telephone's silence is poker played Note how I added by changing &quot;silent phone&quot; and heighten the alliteration by cutting the word &quot;game.&quot; I also added assonance and with this addition, more effectively Not only are the cards concealed but they're also impossible to see. This, then, is my two-line poem for Blair. I'll give it a title, Last Call, and I invite you to do the same In sharing my process I hope I've demonstrated, that you already possess The experiences to explore and the tools of imagery, I also hope you see the truth How poetry can save a life. What I mean is that even though I can never in the way I feel I should have, I can at least write a poem and saves me from slipping And importantly, I can keep writing I can build these two lines and in this poem I can transform a blazing thing that calls out, to all those who need it; creating a real icebreaker, And in this icebreaker, I can ask you to close your eyes The ice inside you. Think about that massive block of ice, that unskateable surface made of what is missing or of the voice that destorts And pair up with the maker the one who listens, crafts, And share with your inner maker the work of chipping it away, or navigating the expanse And when you inevitably fall know that as your out-of-balance body your lungs aflame with held breath; that it will be the hands of this maker that break through the ice and pull you back through. (Applause)