- [Narrator] There's a lot (upbeat music) but what's not immediately obvious is that it actually shows an Zoom out, and you can see why. This route connects DC and and goes all the way through the Midwest. To connect from this highway to this one, drivers have to take about a through the center of this town, Breezewood, Pennsylvania. It's one of just a few with traffic lights. The commercial corridor has become a meme on depicting a detour that for roughly 5.5 million at its worst, creating But if you take that traffic - We really need to balance how to retain the economic while mitigating the - [Narrator] So, we asked an - The simplest solution would be to create an where the turnpike meets Interstate 70. - [Narrator] An interchange like a diverging diamond or a cloverleaf. - Diverging diamond interchange is where a freeway meets a major roadway that reduces a lot of the that are going between the two roadways. A cloverleaf, however, is a This has eight ramps and four direct ramps which allow vehicles to go in any direction. - [Narrator] Both of these where the roads intersect. To build a diverging - [Varanesh] What we would need to do is cross over the flows at this point and bring 'em back here at this point. - [Narrator] But this interchange would require traffic signals, which we're trying to avoid, and a lot of land, which So, what about a cloverleaf? - [Varanesh] We would have This would allow movement from any direction, to any direction. - [Narrator] Reducing in each direction by up - Challenge would be how it would interact with this local road and how we could with some of the existing that are in that area. - [Narrator] But there's another solution that's even simpler, and it only needs two ramps. - The first would be a ramp that connects the turnpike and one that connects I-70 It allows movement between with only two ramps, as opposed to an interchange which would require eight that same level of connectivity. - [Narrator] This shortens the by about one to two miles. - This would allow vehicles to move from one road to another without interacting with traffic lights, which would be helpful for all - [Narrator] On average, trucks make up about 12% of traffic on rural interstates across the country. But trucks made up 36% of daily traffic in Breezewood last year. So, fixing the choke point is expected to dramatically reduce their by over 140,000 hours But there's a reason Breezewood doesn't have a direct interchange. Decades ago, the 1956 prevented a direct connection because the turnpike was a toll road. - The federal government would because at the time, an interstate could not - [Narrator] The Pennsylvania is obligated to collect tolls, so it couldn't stop collecting them in order to get the federal funding, and it also didn't fund But Breezewood isn't the meant to send people through a toll booth. - With toll roads, it's advantageous to have all vehicles exiting cross through one unified point, which is the toll plaza. - [Narrator] Having to send resulted in these twisting all over the country. Now, with electronic tolling that can be placed almost anywhere, road design can be streamlined. - A lot of these in a similar manner to the - [Narrator] So, instead state highway officials at to extend I-70 north past the and the traffic began. There were a few attempts to address the congestion in Breezewood, but building a bypass was off the table, largely due to local opposition. Breezewood's economy was built on being a pit stop for travelers. It's the self-proclaimed Town of Motels. So, locals feared that would prevent potential patrons from visiting the businesses, threatening the town's very existence, which has happened before. Towns along Route 66, like Amboy in California, dwindled after Interstate 40 was built, bypassing the historic road. - As a result, less traffic and those businesses declined to a point where they had to close. - [Narrator] But fixing the doesn't have to mean - We still wanna have for drivers to take breaks But we also wanna improve so it's less auto-centric. - [Narrator] Which means - So, what we would like is essentially reconfigure the roadway to make it easier to make left turns and to allow pedestrians to walk between the different establishments - [Narrator] Step one, turn - The benefit of the roundabout is that it allows drivers without having to stop and it signals to drivers a slower, calmer area. - [Narrator] Step two, implement what's known as a road diet on this stretch of Route 30, which involves replacing at least one lane with other features, like sidewalks and bicycle lanes. This is how a road diet was implemented in Charlotte, North Carolina. - They took away one and replaced that with a two-way left turn lane in the middle, a bicycle lane on either side, and then a mid-block crossing to allow folks to cross - [Narrator] So, what would a road diet look like in Breezewood? This portion of Route 30 is six lanes, so when there's congestion, it's hard to make left turns - Also, with six lanes, no sidewalks and no crosswalks, it's nearly impossible for pedestrians to cross from one - [Narrator] But with a bypass in place, traffic on Route 30 would decrease. So, Varanesh would get rid of one lane and replace it with and add a two-way left that's divided by a mid-block crossing. - Essentially to allow pedestrians to go from one end to another. - [Narrator] But the town needs more than just redesigned roads. Many of the businesses that once lined Route 30 have shut down, in part because, even with 5.5 million many aren't stopping. In 2017, the American found that 80% of truck drivers didn't pull over in Breezewood. - By removing a lot of the through traffic with an interchange south of Breezewood and by improving the overall the hope is that this could who wanna go to Breezewood rather than being forced - [Narrator] People have long complained about the congestion here. In 1999, one &quot;Wall Street &quot;There's no breezing through Breezewood.&quot; Now, the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission says it's in conversation about building a connection to I-70. - A lot of cities were designed to be very auto-centric. - [Narrator] That's why looking at this photo of Breezewood is like looking at truck stops So, you don't have to go to Breezewood to know what it feels like to be there, and you don't have to look too far to find ways to make it better. - Over the last few years, we've gained more knowledge make them more human-centric, and make them really support and businesses in the