Boy, oh, boy. I love snow cones! What flavor did you get Tom? [Tom]: Grape! I... do I have to say this? I just love it. [Matt]: Me too. How about you, Amy? [Amy]: Tiger's blood. [Tom]: Oh, you would. [Lee]: Ah, what flavor is that? [Amy]: Strawberry, watermelon and coconut. *Chef's kiss* So good. [Matt]: Oh, that sounds delicious. And what do you get, head editor Dan? [Dan]: *slurp* Blue. [Matt]: But Blue isn't a flavor Dan, what [Dan]: Blue. [Lee]: Do you mean Blue Raspberry? [Dan]: Iz blue. [Matt]: Ahh No, because Blue Raspberries aren't It's not a real flavor. So again, I asked, what flavor did you get [Dan]: Blue. [Matt]: *runs yelling* [Dan]: *whispers* Bluuuuuuuuuue Hello Internet! Welcome to Food Theory, where we always work Theorists, we have got to talk about the unique flavor, Blue. You see, blue is the world's favorite color We tend to associate blue with positive things: But those aren't actually truly blue. They're just the product of light refracting that are actually blue. Scientists believe that blue is the rarest This is because there are relatively few blue and because of that rarity, when they do occur, I mean, just look at this cutie pie. Don't you just want to cuddle him up with Well, don't. Because he carries enough venom to kill 26 There are also some species of indigofera dyes which contain a toxic chemical called Ingesting or inhaling the chemical can cause And of course, there's the blue poison dart I mean, with a name like that I don't really to scare me away. And yet, despite how unnatural blue is and danger, or I suppose I should say a big old When it comes to food, we humans eat it up. When M&amp;M's wanted to revitalize the brand Beating the other two options of pink and million total votes. To celebrate, they lit up the Empire State down in history as one of the company's most More recently in a fan vote for favorite flavors crown despite being released 20 years after own exclusive flavor packaging. And before you say anything, it doesn't stop Blue cocktails have been getting their moment Hannah Godwin of The Bachelor fame started herself with a boozy blue raspberry slushie. It seemed like an innocent thing. Oh, blue cocktails are so in right now, but they continue to dominate. Cool Blue? Yup, that is the highest selling Gatorade of you can actually tell me what cool blue In fact, any of these blue things, what is Yes, you in the back. Sit down. I ask again. Minus this food. What is the flavor of blue? Don't worry. I'll wait. Hmm? What was that? Oh, blue raspberry. Aha, aha, yeah, sure. But what exactly is blue raspberry? You see, even though at this point we've kind when you stop and think for a minute, there concoction. Like, what flavor is it really? Blue raspberries do not exist. If you've seen photos, they've been doctored. If you've seen videos, they've been retouched. If you think you've eaten them, you are wrong. Blue raspberry is not real and has never been So then what is this imaginary flavor that And also, why did they choose raspberry of Raspberries aren't blue. There are perfectly good berries out there They don't even have to taste the same. It's not like grape flavored things taste They did your Blow Pop would taste like a Your snow cone would taste like water that That is the real flavor of grape. So why not blueberry for your blue candy? Why create a completely new fake berry to color of food? We live in a world where pudding now comes Sure! Mermaid! All right, why not? Now we know what licking Ariel would taste I mean, I would have assumed it was something the cloying sweetness of this. But sure, all of this is fiction anyway. It's all made up. None of it is real. And wait, what's that? A blue Sour Patch Kids pudding cup? An energy drink? This stuff is everywhere. So today we're diving into the history of Why is this stuff so popular? Why, for this specific berry? And most puzzling of all, what are you actually Well, friends call me Reverse Morpheus because As I mentioned before, no, blue raspberries It's possible that whoever first had the idea into the same food might have been inspired A.K.A Rubus Leucudermis, which takes on a bright But these real things, yeah, they're not the They're also not typically cultivated at the extract from these things either. So that's not the real flavor here either. Notice, though, that I said "whoever had who first had the idea to pair this so-called far and away the most commonly used specific exact purpose. But it's believed to have first emerged as fountain soda at concession stands and circuses. Eventually, it would be picked up and mass 1970s. Two separate companies both claim to be the of blue raspberry: First, ICEE. Those frozen slurpee drinks that you sometimes Secondly, Otter Pops. The plastic tubes of liquid sugar that you cheaper than normal popsicles. But then no one has the scissors to open them So then you just try to rip them open with and you're like, "gah, now I got a mouthful And sometimes there's like the weird margarita Anyway, both of these claim to have been the their product. ICEE already had themselves a blue element to change any branding. Meanwhile, Otter Pops went so far as to introduce named Louie Blue, a blue French otter who Also, can I just say it at this point? I didn't realize that Otter Pops had personas, They even have themselves a line of Funko And why is the Orange character sad? Oh, it's because she's an orphan. Oh geez. Is their Otter Pop lore that I have to be Do I have to do an Otter Pop lore theory? What even is my life at this point? Okay, so now that we know who did it, why? Why blue? Well, if you read online, most articles will flavor of raspberry with a specific color. Sure, raspberries in nature are usually some But a lot of other popular flavors are also colors. You couldn't use purple, that's for grape. Red, That's usually cherry, which is why strawberry Watermelon is sometimes green unless the product which case it's going to go pink. But pink's already taken up by strawberry So yeah, raspberry had to be blue almost by It was the last pick on the field, the one And while yes, this is the most widely accepted has stuck around as long as it has. There's another, more fundamental reason for tends to overlook. People didn't want to die. Believe it or not, originally most products did try to mimic the appearance of raspberries Raspberry Blow Pops, Raspberry Jolly Ranchers, All of them started as red, but later changed Why? Well, if you're old enough, or you have yourself the stories about red M&amp;M's is not existing were poisonous. Yep, that is a real thing that happened. And it was because of a real public health an industrial food dye named after its resemblance Amaranth was cited as a potential cancer causing in the 1970s, which led to massive bans of This public fear was actually so widespread two like M&amp;M's stopped making red products consumers would fear all red dyes. But since Amaranth is a little closer to reddish using red number two tended to be raspberry So when the FDA banned its use in the U.S. new image. And blue number two was just sitting there And even though now, with more sophisticated nuances available, blue razz got itself nicely flavor profile in pop culture. And in case you were wondering, the FDA considers color related food additives. So now that we know the who and the why, it's What actually is the flavor of this made up Because spoiler alert, it ain't raspberry To understand what it is, we actually have engineer named Melvin de Groote. With his 900 patents, Melvin is often considered behind Thomas Edison, and the ripples of his For instance, the oil that gets pumped all Left alone it would wear away its transport based solutions that made it less corrosive. But his work also crossed into the food world. He's rumored to have helped create magic shell He's also said to have secretly reformulated based ingredients were outlawed during prohibition. My Diet Coke addiction thanks you sir. But it his observations coming from the early As the story goes, Mel went to the circus outsell the natural pale yellow variety. He later proved that most people couldn't was explicitly colored as purple. These were actually some of the first studies flavor, and they showed that you could decouple Heck, you could decouple flavor from itself. Just say what people are tasting and they'll With a little bit of branding, you can make Enter the world of artificial flavors. If a human's sense of taste is really so easy more regularly? In 1869, a German chemist named Constantin taste of saccharin while he was working in This then led to the creation of the first And from there, throughout the rest of the in coloring started to become more widespread. One of the first and most notable developments 1874, which made what was historically an something that anyone could afford and use. Something that we actually covered in a previous World War II also increased demand for artificial natural products. This was a trend that would continue after foods grew. But it was in the 1950s and 60s when food and development of new artificial flavors of the ones that we know today: grape, cherry, So what then is the actual flavor of blue Well, when you look at the breakdown, there The first is ethyl maltol, which has a sweet the food industry to enhance flavors. Next up is methyl anthranilate, which has Then it's isoamyl acetate, which has a fruity off with some malic acid, a natural acid that's to give the candy a tart, acidic taste. And there you have your blue raspberry flavor So yeah, at the end of the day, blue raspberry, a lie this entire time. There's no such berry, the color used to cause And the flavor is only what you think raspberries a mix of grapes, cherries, banana and acid. Disillusioning? Yeah, maybe. Probably should have taken the red pill all As for me, I've always been more of a grape the fact that grape doesn't taste like grape. Probably an episode for another day. But until that day comes, remember, it's all Bon appetit.