(box clunks) (tape tearing) (chilled lo-fi music) (wrap rustling) (upbeat electronic music) - So usually, one crazy thing is enough to get my attention, just something out of But this new Mac mini has three things about it that are insane. So instead of having an event this year, Apple decided to do a bunch for the last week of October to update their whole Mac lineup to M4. And one of them was for this new Mac mini. Now, a lot of us might not give too much thought to the Mac mini, like, yeah, maybe it as the most affordable Mac, but if you're not buying one, you're not really thinking But the number one most insane well, I mean look at it, it's tiny. It is absolutely tiny. Apple's gone through and redesigned basically all of their computers now that have gotten the Mac silicon update. Well, except this one, this is the same design as a while ago, but the Mac mini was kind of technically overdue for a redesign. And the new one, it actually like a shrunken Mac Studio But it's now a five inch and two inches tall. I'll say that again, a five by Now I like small desktops, and yes, you could get a there's plenty of amazing all over the internet that They're sick. But there's levels to this, there's small computers and And this Mac mini is smaller It's smaller than a new roll of duct tape. It's smaller than the and barely bigger than the Apple's seemingly had this obsession with making certain computers even before Apple silicon came along. So this has just kind of to push it even further than ever before. Yeah, there are fans in here, but there are also ports on the back. Gigabit ethernet by default, And then three Thunderbolt and then there's two plus the headphone jack. So still no SD card reader. And there's obviously now no more USB-A. If you tried to build or buy another computer you will either end up building a computer that's just as small but or a computer that's just as capable, but nowhere near as small. It is just a hilariously It's great. I would also like to start I would like to use this video I think that there is someone someone whose sole purpose is to come up with one obnoxious for every new Apple product redesign. Like this is the person that This is the person that at the bottom of the Magic Mouse. And this person's best work is right here on this new Mac mini, putting the power button Like, why? There are so many better like at the front or the side, or literally anywhere on the back, like all the other small Mac desktops. Or at the top. That But no, they chose behind the back corner, which is (sighs) just... I mean, I don't use I don't really turn the Mac on and off with a button almost ever. I might sleep it and wake it back up, and maybe every couple of weeks, I'll have to remember that But yeah, it's just dumb and complained about without Well played, guy. But yeah, you know, the of a computer getting smaller are battery, speakers, and thermals. There's just less room Battery of course doesn't make a huge difference on a desktop, who cares? Speakers, kind of the And thermals have been redesigned in a way that seem to be working just fine. This thing hardly gets over a peep. If you do heavy stuff, and you can hear it, but sitting on the desk, So then the number two insane is that the base model is kind No, like I don't think you understand it. I think it's actually one It's certainly the best out of any of Apple's new product And I mean, I'm kind of but it is a really good deal. So this base M4 Mac mini costs 599, right? So for that, you get the base which has quietly doubled instead of eight from before. So the 10 core CPU and the 10 core GPU. Now we're four generations and the gains are to stack up versus M1. We already know it was a huge difference from the Intel chips, but I more into that in the MacBook Pro review because I've been using for three years since it came out. And the M4 Max is the first one that's actually tempted me to upgrade between generations of Apple silicon. It's really interesting. So get subscribed and when it comes out. But the main thing you need to know is this base M4 chip is great, it's super solid and power efficient at everyday normal and music streaming and And it can handle what medium-grade activities very easily. Not heavy stuff like or a heavy video editing, but pretty much anything short of that. This could be a coding this could be a photo editing machine. Pixelmator runs like a dream. And fun fact, Apple just bought But yeah, just having stuff like that, like just it runs like a dream, it's great. It's as good as you'd expect the world's fastest single So yeah, Mac mini, you know, it has been the most affordable Mac, the sort of entry point for But this year with the it just feels like a Think of it this way, the M4 iMac that also just got refreshed is basically the exact same computer, but just in an upright desktop with a non replaceable display. That starts at $1,299. So you can use that $700 difference to kind of get whatever screen you want. Now, you can obviously also but I don't think you See, Apple is known for building what I've called a price ladder, and they're just trying to get you to climb as high as possible. They do this across all their products, but there's basically always sitting right above the base model. And then when you spend that money, you're kind of right underneath and then they kind of walk you up, trying to get you to spend It's really smart, they do it with iPhones and with iPads and with everything else. This base Mac mini, I'm but it only has 256 gigs of storage. And many people are fine with that and they can live with that, that's great. But if you know you're gonna a lot of video, then you start looking at and that's where you'll to a terabyte costs 400 more dollars. Or if you plan to do bumping it up to 10 gig ethernet costs 100 more dollars on top of that. for the price of just those upgrades, you could almost get an It's crazy. Like basically, across the board, Apple's upgrade pricing is which is why I'm specifically saying the base model is such a good deal. And actually if you're lucky enough to have a .edu email address right now, the student discount drops it But once you know you're to the pre-purchase spec, which you have to know before buying it, 'cause you can't upgrade all the memory, everything is built in, then it becomes more of a normal deal. I do wanna say this though. So the third and final crazy is that the maxed out version has a case for the best portable workstation Mac. Now this doesn't apply to everybody. This is coming from me, someone who used to drag an through the airport to events because it was the fastest editing machine that I could reasonably travel with, and it actually made sense for me. So coming from that perspective, this new Mac mini is sick. So looking at the Mac Studios, those aren't upgraded to M4 yet, they've all got the M2 generation. And it's also not gonna be the Mac Pro, which is also still on the M2 generation and obviously not portable. The iMac is on M4, but there's no Pro chips, so So this Mac mini is the easiest way to pack an M4 Pro chip with you and just throw it in a An equivalent spec'd starts at $2,000, which is actually another as far as performance. But if you don't need a laptop and play into monitors wherever you go, 1399 gets you the M4 Pro Mac mini. And that upgrade also gets being Thunderbolt 5 So it can support three 6K So I've had and been with 48 gigs of memory, and fun fact, if you run through this runs up the highest CPU That includes the Mac Pro and the Mac Studios and all of them. This is by far the most we've ever seen by a lot. And then Multi-Core just barely tops Geekbench's all time Mac list, though as we know, CPU doesn't when you go from base it's way more GPU stuff. And so when you look at GPU benchmarks, the most powerful Mac it was putting up M1 Max numbers, which again, shows how much have been improving and I've been editing videos for three years now on the MacBook Pro. So this Mac mini feels like one of those impossibly small computers Apple's like always even before Apple silicon. Like you probably remember like the &quot;Trashcan&quot; MAC Pro, no doubt, they wanted do something crazy. They wanted to put a cooled by a single fan. We saw how that went with or even some of those that started having overheating issues. But now that Apple silicon and this efficient over time, they're actually able to like the Mac Studio and now like this little Nobody was asking for the except for those people somewhere in California. Well played. Well played. Thanks for watching. Catch you guys in the next one. Peace. (chilled electronic music)