- [Narrator] Every time a whole series of behind the so you can get- (machine beeping) But this system has been - Okay, your total will be 14.85, please. - [Narrator] This $15 lunch around 37 to 46 cents in various fees. It adds up and it's why - We have the cash sign so We save money. We save money on every sale. - [Narrator] Some businesses are even starting to implement surcharges adding around 3% to your bill if you pay by credit card. And now Congress is getting involved. - Swipe fees just aren't They're anti-competitive - [Narrator] Here's how the and what Congress is trying to change. Your credit card involves your bank, which loans you the money, and the card network that handles the transaction Those two companies handle the in the U.S. When you use your credit card, the transaction runs through through the credit card's And there are fees throughout these steps. The processing systems fee around one 10th of a percent There's a large market the which can keep this cost down. Then there's the credit around a quarter of a percent. And the largest fee of the The interchange fee, it's It's set by the card networks but it's paid to your bank - You get rewards for every purchase - Everything? - Essentially, that fee that we all get when - Earn 5% on travel with Chase Freedom Unlimited. - Cashback credit cards or credit cards with someone's paying for that. It can be only a few cents but then, think about when you take into account - [Narrator] Merchants pay banks and other credit card set by Visa and MasterCard, roughly 55 billion just last year. Interchange fees vary by card. Generally a higher rewards card will come with a higher interchange fee and businesses have They can't choose to not because of the fees. If they want to accept any they have to accept all of - In the end, what ends up playing out is that because the merchants build that in that we all see in many cases, So the cash shopper and the credit card shopper but the credit card shopper's - [Narrator] If a credit which they did on many businesses have few choices. It's these rising fees that has Congress wanting to look more like the debit card system. When you use your debit card, It runs through the source processor, through a card network, to your bank. But in 2010, Congress passed the Durbin It lowered and set a cap that card networks and it made banks enable a second network that merchants could use, instead of the card network that's on the front of your card. - So the idea here is merchants of being able to choose between the more So if sending the that's not Visa or MasterCard then why shouldn't it be able to do that? So it was essentially into the debit card for lower costs potentially for merchants. - [Narrator] And that's what a Democrat and Republican senator want Their bill isn't imposing but it would require larger banks that use Visa or MasterCard networks to enable a second network to make it competitive which should lower fees. Banks and credit card companies - There's a potential ripple effect here. If the banks are receiving than they currently are, are funding credit card rewards programs, what would happen to - [Narrator] Banks are concerned that this legislation of rewards they could offer. And the networks also argue like network security and innovation. Merchants, especially small businesses are concerned that the increasing on top of already rising prices. - There are two sides to this argument. Credit cards incentivize people to spend more than they otherwise would. Credit cards result in more sales than merchants would otherwise get. And there are also costs associated with not accepting credit cards. Like if you're a cash-only business, being concerned about cash On the other side, the &quot;Yeah, but our costs continue to rise as credit cards become for consumers to use when they're shopping and fees increase.&quot; - [Narrator] Businesses have few options to offset these rising fees. So more and more places are So if the price to use credit so might your lunch. - Thank you so much. Enjoy your chicken par. - Thank you. (funky techno music)