Hi, I'm Andrew with Prudent Reviews. And in this video, I give you a side-by-side You'll learn how they differ in terms of product price, and more. Let's get started. One of the most significant differences between they offer. All-Clad specializes in stainless steel cookware, D5, Copper Core, and G5. Each collection has unique materials, construction, Although stainless steel cookware is their and copper pans too, and a few small kitchen appliances. Made In keeps it simple and makes your decision Although they offer more types of cookware, copper, and enameled cast iron, there's Made In also makes premium forged kitchen and glasses. Made In stainless steel and non-stick pots Italy. They make their carbon steel, copper, and All-Clad's copper and stainless steel cookware Pennsylvania, factory. However, the lids and handles for these collections the US. The one exception is All-Clad Gourmet. This collection of specialty pieces like steamers, is made in China. All-Clad's hard-anodized aluminum non-stick entirely in China. And they recently came out with an enameled made in Germany. Made In stainless steel pans feature 5-ply They're made with a triple-layer aluminum stainless steel. Made In's thick aluminum core transfers results every meal. All-Clad offers more variety in terms of construction. For example, their best-selling D3 collection between two layers of stainless steel. All-Clad's 5-ply Copper Core collection layers of stainless steel, two internal layers The All-Clad collection that's most similar D5 Brushed. This collection has a thin steel core layer by two exterior layers of steel. The steel core diffuses the heat transfer, but it's a bit more forgiving. So, with All-Clad D5, you're less likely cooking. HA1 is All-Clad's most popular non-stick It's made with a thick hard-anodized aluminum a steel induction plate bonded to the bottom. The Essentials collection has the same construction This cookware costs less, but it's not compatible Made In non-stick pans are made with the same use to make their stainless steel cookware, applied twice to the cooking surface. Both brands made durable non-stick cookware due to the steel exterior, while All-Clad visible on its dark exterior. Made In stainless steel cookware features the options of brushed or polished. The difference between polished and brushed performance. However, fingerprints and smudges won't Both brands have long, double-riveted, stainless on cooktops. But that's where the similarities end. Made In handles are hollow inside, flat on the pan. All-Clad's solid metal handles are straight A lot of people really dislike All-Clad handles. And, I agree, they're not nearly as comfortable job preventing your hand from rotating when Another difference is the angle of the handle. All-Clad handles are positioned at a higher with the top of the pan. The end of Made In's handles are about 3.5 a little over 4 inches. The advantage of Made In's design is that space between racks. The advantage of All-Clad's angle is that Cookware with thick walls is usually more But if the cookware is too thick, it'll Fortunately, both Made In and All-Clad got All-Clad's D3 and D5 collections, and Made All-Clad Copper Core is 2 mm thick. Normally I would say this is a negative, but Copper is heavier than aluminum, and if these be too heavy for most people. Speaking of weight, I measured each brand's they compare. All-Clad D3 weighs 2.8 pounds, D5 weighs 3.2 Core was the heaviest at 3.7 pounds. The Made In 12-inch fry pan weighs 3.4 pounds, than Copper Core. I've been using Made In and All-Clad for it's difficult to tell them apart. Both heat up fast and evenly, and both retain When you put a piece of meat on these pans, Made In performs most similarly to All-Clad are 3 mm thick. Besides the shape and angle of the handle, If you use All-Clad D5 and Copper Core enough, those and Made In. D5 heats up a little bit slower due to its slightly faster thanks to its highly conductive Although the differences are subtle and the One advantage or Made In that's worth calling Made In stainless steel cookware is oven-safe steel tops out at 600. Very few recipes call for temps over 600, leeway with Made In. Overall, you can expect excellent performance One of the major differences between All-Clad In short, All-Clad is significantly more expensive why. Most All-Clad cookware is made in the U.S. take a hefty margin for the prestige of the All-Clad brand Made In keeps prices low by cutting out the Instead of selling through retailers, Made and through its Amazon store. To be clear, Made In is less expensive than But considering that Made In cookware is 5-ply, it's an excellent value. So should you buy Made In or All-Clad? The decision really comes down to options, Go with All-Clad if you want multiple options handles and polished finishes, and don't even though part of that high price is due With Made In, you only have one option within are thoughtfully designed in partnership with The handles are more comfortable and the brushed The best part is that, with Made In, you get much lower price. I'm a big fan of both, but for the money, If you want to learn more about these two each in the description of this video. I'll also link to websites that sell All-Clad Those are affiliate links, so I'll earn no extra cost to you. If this was helpful, check out this video the USA. And don't forget to click the logo to subscribe Thanks for watching, we'll see you in the