&quot;The art of war is to win without bloodshed (Otherwise) the minimum necessary use of violence.&quot; Part I) Self-Directed Warfare In 401 BC Xenophon led Greek mercenaries into When their leader died and they had nothing they had to become a concentrated force fighting The soldiers' spirit was crushed. They had weak morale and started fighting Xenophon united them, thus defeating the inner Focusing on survival, the prospect of getting persevere. You cannot swing a sword without knowing what It's you against the world and it's you against Fight your inner demons. Do not let your mind, your emotions and your Know yourself and external enemies won't be You can stand up against anyone (mental fortitude). 2) Do Not Fight the Last War dangerous Samurais, because he used to switch regularly to keep his opponents guessing and The nervousness and paranoia this inflicted What has worked in the past, may not work Forget the past. Adapt to current times, ever-changing, ever-evolving. George Bernard Shaw said &quot;The only man I know my measurements anew each time he sees me. The rest go on with their old measurements 3) Amidst the Turmoil of Events, Do Not Lose Lord Nelson disobeyed his hysterical commander a calm head in a most hectic situation. By disregarding his commander's authority Lord Nelson defeated the Danish navy. You have to stay alert, when everyone else Do not be intimidated by chaos. Do not panic. You seek out the conflict reacting swiftly, 4) Create a Sense of Urgency and Desperation Facing his execution he made use of his time his last, because they very well could've Once you come face to face with death, you You overcome trivialities we foolishly care Dostoevsky's work is exceptional, because He did not seek comfort. You cannot wait for the right time. You are never fully prepared to start. &quot;Tu fui ego eris.&quot; As you are, I was. As I am, you will be. (A gravestone inscription reminding you that Part II) Organizational (Team) Warfare General George Marshall taught his philosophies put into authoritative positions with high One of these men was Dwight Eisenhower. The General could rely on his subordinates, positions according to his vision. You want a chain of command you can rely on. You are the General, but you cannot have your Put remote systems and loyal leaders into Use them to balance your weaknesses with their up to date. In any case, be careful not to give up too 6) Segment Your Forces by Austrian troops led by Karl Mack, upon them into battle with specific instructions The French units were free to move, flexible The Austrian troops surrendered. This is the opposite of Concentrating Your unite and when to divide your army. Slow, but strong or fast and precise. 7) Transform Your War into a Crusade to demonstrate how far his men would go to were made of. This is a lesson in leadership. Managing men well means 1) leading by example. You use the effects of emotion by emphasizing and that &quot;God is on your side.&quot; It's 3) all about the team, its spirit, the the mission ahead. You 5) punish and reward behavior accordingly. You 6) bond together through each action and your leadership. Part III) Defensive Warfare Winston Churchill said &quot;You will never reach at every dog that barks.&quot; Now the trick is in discerning which dogs You'd be surprised how few of them actually Control your ego and ignore the insignificant Do not let pride worsen your situation. Some battles you cannot win. Never start them in the first place. Know your limits. Some battles you can win, but at too high A Pyrrhic victory will ruin you. Make your battles worth your time and resources. Why would you fight a battle with grim odds, Your energy is limited. Don't waste it. 9) Turn the Tables the Republican party slandered Franklin Roosevelt, his dog. Roosevelt humiliated his opponent by defending move for what it was. Roosevelt was not easily irritated. He let his opponents make the first move, This way he could analyze their strategy and In history defenders are more often victorious, We humans do not like aggressors. We don't like bullies. We have a heart for the victims of such attacks, Stay calm and turn the situation into your 10) Create a Threatening Presence intimidating George McClellan during the American flaws. Build the reputation of being a force of nature, Unpredictability, madness, sudden and bold Plant a seed of doubt in your opponent's mind Make them believe they cannot win and they To scare them means to break them. But be careful. Your opponent may call your bluff, if you're Don't merely bark. 11) Trade Space for Time Mao Tse-tung's communists were forced to retreat. Had the national party fought them at that But the communists took the opportunity and defeating the nationalists in 1949 with a This is similar to the Surrender Tactic. Napoleon Bonaparte said &quot;Space we can recover, You grant your opponent a small win in order and weaken the enemy before battle. Frustrate them by fighting on your terms. This is classic Sun Tzu's Art of War material. The enemy gives you chase you retreat. The enemy retreats you pursue. It's all about the advantage that determines Part IV) Offensive Warfare Alexander the Great planned his campagin far other leaders. One example of his purposeful goals was the ports, effectively leaving the enemy without future equations. It wasn't obvious until it was too late. Even though it has become a cliche; think Determine the bullseye, plan to the end and read your actions, since they don't seem to In other words, make them focus on the trees 13) Know Your Enemy he could find his weak spots. A few years later he had helped arrange Napoleon's pleasant wife. Napoleon's defeat at Waterloo had also been Know thyself and know thy rival. One of the greatest skills in war, as in seduction Master non-verbal communication, hide your tactics based on your insights. 14) Overwhelm Resistance With Speed and Suddenness the one who shall not be named, with The Blitzkrieg He segmented his forces for mobility, lost serious and fast attacks, which the enemy You start by making slow moves to set the the Uberraschungsmoment to win the war quickly. 15) Control the Dynamic fought the British on the North African deserts, and out of the opponent's reach. In order to reduce the gap between events line. You're in control. Be assertive. Zugzwang, navigate your opponent by forcing The only downside to control might be not 16) Hit Them Where it Hurts which was the Carthaginian capital in Spain. Scipio destroyed Hannibal's armies' vital Within 5 years Scipio captured Carthage and Everything has a center of gravity. Take a hold of it and unbalance the remaining and chains of command. 17) Defeat Them in Detail Strategy of Marathon 24 miles near Athens, splitting by sea. The Greeks attacked the remaining Persians, the city. This is the origin of &quot;running a marathon.&quot; Divide large units and they're easier targets. When your enemies are on the defensive, they full force. You do not allow them such strength. 18) Expose and Attack Your Enemy's Soft Flank Alvinczy into charging forward, hence exposing This was the opportunity Napoleon had hoped once more. Disorient your rival, make him drop his guard blow to his exposed and vulnerable side. 19) Envelop The Enemy in Natal pressuring them with surprise attacks by heart. Enclosing the opponent does a number on his Feeling trapped they will retreat, if they 20) Maneuver Them Into Weakness the art of &quot;winning without hands&quot; was challenged Bokuden decided they should have the duel As soon as the swordsman left the boat, the leaving the young warrior stranded. Outsmart the opponent, avoiding an advantageless grant you greater control over the situation 21) Negotiate While Advancing II of Macedonia came to power, Athens refusing He spoke of peace and prosperity as he continued to lead an attack on the Persians. Negotiate, willing to come to a win-win arrangement, progress. You avoid immediate conflict, while furthering Your demands are bold, yet ever-more reasonable, 22) Know How To End Things a Texas Congressional seat with the help of and experienced politicians. Not wasting a second he humbly took to them, collaboration, successfully. Show humility in victory and let fresh wounds It's in your best interest that everyone accepts on. The exit strategy -- Ende gut, alles gut. Part V) Unconventional (Dirty) War In the 2nd World War, the allies made use Adolf Hitler's decision-making before the They sat a Doppelganger of General Montgomery In Engand they set up what looked like an Misinform your opponent, make him see upside Make a weak spot look strong, make a strong Do the opposite of what your opponent is really However, don't fully rely on deception. A skilled opponent might see through the illusion, 24) Take The Line of Least Expectation baiting them through erratic behavior. As the Romans crossed the Trebia, they found Other times the Romans tried to bait Hannibal, Great advantage comes from not meeting your Others have a mental model of you based on By going against this image they've created 25) Occupy the Moral High Ground Pope Leo X that only god can forgive one's by selling privileges. Luther revealed the hypocrisy, justifying of the pope and refuting him based solely You're good, your opponent is evil. You create an us versus them dynamic, demonize one. However, you may lose support seeming righteous 26) Deny Them Targets His French forces of 450'000 men were decimated their retreat. The Russians were playing for time, drawing any resources they could not carry. Guerrilla (Geh-Rrih-Ya) warfare works best the enemy, using nature to your advantage up in the sun. When your rival is ready to fight, frustrate 27) Seem to Work for the Interests of Others In 1467 the Duke of Burgundy allied with England in unison. Louis, however, was informed of the Duke's same breath, crossing his adversary's plans. Make strategic alliances that benefit you. Do not hesitate to do favors for those who As you treat others kindly and generously, Keep in mind, rarely does anyone help you 28) Give Your Rivals Enough Rope To Hang Themselves to protect their language from deteriorating. When the Bishop the Noyons was given the position proved to be a threat to the cause. He was given a speech to perform, with which His blindspots didn't allow him to recognize At last the Bishop left the academy on his Some individuals are inherently self-destructive. You let your adversaries end themselves as As they overreact, hurting their own reputation, &quot;Don't interrupt your enemy when he is making 29) Take Small Bites Winston Churchill to ask for permission for in France. It was a small favor and Churchill didn't De Gaulle spoke to his people who had been the Germans. De Gaulle promised to talk to them again the bargain, but Churchill played along. What harm could it do? De Gaulle became more aggressive, calling support, eventually leading his newly-recruited and becoming all too powerful, step by step. When Churchill, regretting his decisions and with a passive alternative, de Gaulle's supporters In order to avoid confrontation, people will demands. With short attention spans they repeat mistakes, time. 30) Penetrate Their Minds Niccolo Machiavelli from his post. Aiming to regain favor he then wrote a titleless to take over and keep power as a ruler. He didn't receive the thanks he was hoping remaining life and immortalized him as one of governance and modern politics. After his death the letter was published as on Livy.&quot; Words are weapons. Articulate and profound communication, the lift you out of poverty, end wars before they of luck withstand the fall of time. 31) Destroy From Within Ministry. Adolf Hitler himself assigned Canaris in 1933 skill. It would take the German SS a full decade them, successfully. Troy's walls were unbreakable, their archers but it was the Trojan horse that they willingly that crushed them. Do not attack a fortification with full force, 32) Dominate While Seeming to Submit a peaceful protest against an imposed Salt stood idle, permitting it. The march turned out to be a big success, Indians, but in disapproval of the British. The government was too late to sabotage the Peaceful non-aggression can be more effective, Your animosity is subtle. While your opponent feels in control, since covertly fight for your cause. 33) The Chain Reaction Strategy own interests by using assassins who hid in in the streets only to emerge and assassinate and spreading uncertainty in what was once increasing their power by recruiting anyone attempts to squash the rebellion. Unlike some would lead you to believe, throughout of the common folk by building safe roads, further their own selfish cause. However, not only evil can spread far and can be the change you want to see in the world help good may triumph over evil. &quot;When I was a young man, I wanted to change When I found I could not change the world, When I found I could not change the nation, When I found I could not change the town, Now, as an old man, I realize the only thing And suddenly I realize that if long ago I on my family. My family and I could have made an impact Their impact could have changed the nation. And I could indeed have changed the world.&quot; - Unknown Monk 1100AD