Hello, Health Champions! Today, we're going to a fatty liver. This is such an important topic fatty liver today--that's several billion people. The first is called alcoholic fatty liver, and the that alcohol was basically the only reason someone alcoholic fatty liver. Today, however, the vast As I was prepping for this video, I came &quot;Can you have both an alcoholic and the answer was &quot;yes,&quot; but we need to a fatty liver--you can't have two kinds, would be sugar and alcohol. Some people some may have sugar, and some may have both, One of the fastest ways to reverse a fatty liver for a few months, that would probably I would never recommend such a long fast, people who have fasted for that length of time feel that's the optimal way to do it. Instead, When you do intermittent fasting, keep pattern. For example, you could do OMAD to a 42-hour fast occasionally, and perhaps do prefer to base it on OMAD, while others may prefer change it up a bit. This way, you keep your When we talk about fatty liver, we need to of severity. We can talk about fat in the liver, but you could also reach a more severe eventually, some actual tissue damage and reduced In grade one, which is what most people have, in the liver, but there is no inflammation and damaging--it's just there, starting to infiltrate and get liver enzymes such as ALT, AST, and GGT, you probably wouldn't see a change in those In grade two, there is a bit more fatty and possibly some tissue damage. Here is where In grade three of fatty liver, severe inflammation, and probable tissue damage. If fatty liver progresses further, it can turn The "-itis" at the end indicates inflammation, and this is where tissue damage begins it can lead to cirrhosis and even cancer. This It's an incredibly common condition, but it is resistance and type 2 diabetes. In fact, it The next thing you want to do is stop through some reasons that most people probably into fat. When the liver metabolizes alcohol, the metabolizing alcohol--breaking it down and substance than alcohol--the liver uses up certain the more these nutrients are depleted, which these resources to perform its usual functions, more nutrients are used up for the wrong purposes. B2, B3, vitamin C, and glutathione, which is Glutathione keeps the body clean by breaking Alcohol is also a diuretic, affecting the brain antidiuretic hormone (ADH), which helps balance releases ADH, the kidneys reabsorb more fluid the kidneys reabsorb less fluid, resulting the bathroom more often. Anyone who's had a the bathroom a lot more. One of the biggest lose so much fluid and so many electrolytes. on the rim--the salt helps compensate for Alcohol also affects nutrient regulation in the nutrients and increases the excretion of others, and B12, as well as minerals like magnesium, increases the absorption rate of iron, which if they are insulin resistant. Excess iron can iron overload, which can mimic insulin resistance also harsh on the pancreas and liver, which are Lastly, alcohol interferes with choline, function, fat metabolism, Next, you'll want to eliminate sugar. When we sugar, added white sugar, high-fructose which are roughly 50% glucose and 50% fructose. but the principle is the same. The reason to avoid glucose and fructose. Fructose, which makes is almost as damaging to the liver as alcohol. and it imposes a similar level of stress Everything we discussed about alcohol--how it similarly to fructose. The big picture effects are who often consume far too much of this sugar. vodka or fructose--like a sugary cereal and orange toss-up in terms of the harm it can cause. because that means different things to different in moderation,&quot; and yes, I agree, but what does be one to two drinks per day, but not every day, But typically they talk about one drink a day for when it comes to sugar, the recommendations are or 10% of calories, but in reality, most countries day. And it's not just the United States, and the lot of countries eating over 100 grams of sugar a moderation when it comes to sugar is something and that's for someone who is healthy, not someone someone who's trying to maintain and also someone that they fall off the wagon, that if they have But if you're watching this video, chances are disease and/or type 2 diabetes, and again, most coincide most of the time. And in those cases, There's really no reason to add that extra load it the best possible chance. And then we also want sources of carbohydrates, the densest sources, are they are anywhere from 60 to 80% pure glucose. So half fructose, starch doesn't have any fructose, but starch still raises blood sugar because it are strung together in very, very long chains of broken down very, very quickly. We have enzymes in these glucose molecules very, very quickly, and most of these starches, actually have a higher eat a starch, it raises blood sugar faster, blood eat sugar, and anytime blood glucose goes up, this frequently, now we get insulin resistance. have eaten rice and grain and bread and and they don't develop metabolic diseases until the starch and the sugar, now you start creating once you've established the problem and you're remove both of them as much as possible. So if health and you're insulin sensitive, I think be somewhere between 30 and 100 grams per day, and if you're trying to reverse a condition like you need to go down from there and come down maybe I don't think that zero is a great idea all the ketosis some of the time, then you don't have to vegetables because you need that fiber; you your gut health. The next thing you want to do to and this doesn't mean that you go on a fat binge of fats because the things that damage the liver to drop those down, you need to get some other and that's the problem with a lot of people. When high-processed food diet, now they just try to eat something else. Otherwise, you're going to starve. from nuts and seeds; it comes from wild fish, from eggs and chickens. And then you want to cook with butter, and coconut oil. So ideally, if you get meat, now you don't have to go for the low-fat it. But if you can't find those good sources all then instead you want to add in some cooking fat your toxic load, and this is something that a lot and they know that's a little bit better because understand how much of a burden this is for they test them one at a time, and they test them animal dies, and then they reduce the level, and we get chemicals that are generally regarded as together, and in our environment, we have 3,000 in our air, food, and water every day. So even so many of them, and this is why it's something thing that you can do is to eat organic. I don't and I have learned sort of which ones really something like that that are not organic because dirty dozen list changes from time to time, so plants are in your area, and whatever food they either buy organic or you don't eat it; you eat are things like natural cleaning products. All you put on things, they are actually chemicals to break them down, those toxins. Same thing with to do the natural as possible. Also, use glass and in plastic; never heat things in plastic. I think but never heat them, never keep liquid, and of acidity like tomatoes or lemon juice or going to leach plastic into the liquid. Also, when don't use Teflon or aluminum cookware or then it's probably a good idea to get a water going to be there for a while, it's probably because you can't drink the tap water, and you So either you buy things in glass bottles, kind of water filter. And you can put one on the it might be worth getting a house-wide system. possible, it's a good idea to exercise, to increase the aerobic exercise. Aerobic means to the point of muscle burn or heavy huffing and The advantage of aerobic exercise is that you mostly fat, and it is also low-stress on the body. you can do it for a long time, and it uses I would suggest doing this for 30 minutes or Then there's anaerobic exercise. A lot of people, to some sort of organized aerobics, are actually heart rate so high that you get muscle burn and you're not just burning fat but a mixture of fat to want to compensate by eating more carbohydrates more stress on the body, so especially if you're down more with anaerobic exercise. It's not that you enjoy it, do it once or twice a week, but There's also a special category called HIIT, where you do something super intense you're using fat and carbohydrates, but I still because it challenges the body. When get better, and release a lot of growth you just do your high-intensity training for a which increases your metabolism and fat burning not to overdo it. For example, if you're running to 30 seconds, then take a break for 30 seconds but no more. The total intense time might be no and you don't do that more than two to three and start breaking down the body. But if you do it you do a lot of aerobic exercise, some The next step to reverse fatty liver foods. These would be things like leafy greens compounds that are very beneficial and assist fatty liver. Some examples are broccoli, Then you want to add in some omega-3-rich like salmon and sardines, but eggs can also be not the white, as it's the yolk that it's a high-quality, pasture-raised good omega-3 ratios. A mass-produced egg while pasture-raised eggs would be closer to 1:1, like flax, chia, and hemp, which are rich in as depending on your genetics, stress or any of the omega-3s in flax and chia into the Also, include garlic and turmeric; as they contain compounds There are also supplements you can take. It's but if your liver is stressed or you might need some extra help. Vitamin E the clinic is called Cataplex E because it's a such as Super Omega or cod liver oil. You want you're not taking a dozen capsules for minimal support the liver; my favorite is Livaplex a product called choline, a nutrient that but adding a bit extra might be a good idea. There are several things you can do to but the number one fastest way is to combine go crazy with one thing--just do all of them. make a big difference quickly. So, do some increase your exercise the way we discussed, body can tolerate without slowing down fat fats. For every decrease in carbs, increase liver with good food and some supplements. And, There is something called a fatty liver if you have fatty liver. It considers your blood triglyceride levels, and a liver enzyme circumference are the most significant, Most people with large bellies likely have to be overweight and metabolically healthy, but everything we've discussed here is the fastest, weight, in this case, would simply be a side If you enjoyed this video, you're going to master health by understanding how the hit that bell, and turn on all notifications