The true time of kings and The few remaining don't hold much real except here, one of the smallest yet still ruled by a royal family. To put things in perspective, when Queen Elizabeth's fortune this family, keeping its affairs have a fortune of This royal family serves as some of the little remaining of kings, queens, and emperors now long gone. But how did this small smack in the middle of Europe Who is this immensely powerful But most importantly, in one of Europe's least visited Staffan and I head out on an with no contacts, no plan, but with some hefty hoping to dig up some answers. Well, another day, another airport. We're heading to a country - The journey... They don't have an airport, And then we will drive That is confusing. I don't know how you can be and not build an Let's go. It wasn't me. Your name? Staffan. Don't let this guy board. Welcome to kind of an old to meet, at least for me, any royal family. I met before, so no worries, I can show the manner. What royal family have you met? I can show a photo here, actually. And here. Please don't add anything in the edit, just let him snap like that. No, really, it was in Sweden Oh, f*** that's pretty cool! My gamble is that one of is like a huge Yes Theory oh my God, come hang out with us. You can have dinner at the palace. Alternatively, what I'm imagining and we just walk around and nothing happens. I got a nice little middle seat. Double chance for a friend! Sometimes it's like traveling with a kid. Nice to meet you my friend! Thank you. Have you ever been in Liechtenstein? It's very small! Really risking it here, Some people think maybe that we've never known. Let's go to Liechtenstein! I've never just entered the That mountain right there, that's Liechtenstein. This right here, Perkatheda, the world's richest country. This water right here separates, oh, Liechtenstein. Okay, we are officially in Liechtenstein. Someone riding a horse. Seems very peaceful here. Well, there's 39,000 people, That's the whole country. There's a castle up there Imagine if that's the prince place. Yep, that's it. I don't think there can To make sure we interact we've devised essentially Our primary quest is to meet Essentially Mission impossible We then have a series of side quests. First, we want to appear on every Radio, newspaper, and TV. Second, have a local And finally, which is likely throw an entire party for strangers. Since the Royals is our main goal, we will start with that and tackle the others as we go along. Let's get to it. Okay, first impression, it's really beautiful. - Look at that. This is like a, I don't know, - Look at that! That's crazy! - Hello! How are you? Thomas, you failed, you failed. Okay, but the mission is to meet and we're going to apply the So we need to meet someone who knows Until we get to the prince We're trying to just meet So, he's Swiss, he's German You can go up to the castle. there's a guy that lives there, he's Liechtenstein. We're actually trying to meet him. It's a bit difficult. Hi men! What's up, bro? It's nice to meet you guys! If you were us and you wanted where would you start? I work for the government. The office above us is The office for maybe you could try that route, if they can arrange something. So I think we can ask Yeah, of course. These people are, They are literally royalty, so I think we also have to be careful not to land on some Because that's a real thing. These people have secret service ''Not a crazy person'' Well, this is the city center Not so many people are here. Are you from Liechtenstein? No, we are from Zurich. Zurich, okay thank you As we are quickly realizing, this This mountain valley is the sixth home to only 40,000 inhabitants, but another 23,000 from neighboring countries for work, leading to a large portion of the The country had a very interesting birth. As a wealthy aristocratic family, the Liechtenstein held a lot of possessions and influence in what was known at the time But owning no land outright, they couldn't install and get a seat at the top The Liechtensteins, bought this little piece of land Then, using the power attained royal status over it. Strangely enough, this royal family wouldn't actually for over 120 years. But it was enough to be declared Through a combination of luck and Somehow found itself keeping various other kingdoms in the region and Germany during World War II. The country after World War II, But they started a rapid and highly which was really quite successful. They also, controversially, became a tax haven putting them on a blacklist from the US until finally reforming in 2008. Today, according to the CIA, they've become the richest This royal family has opted and their reputation quite But locally, they are often seen even invite the whole country up to And somehow, we now in the center of this struggling to meet but also its locals. Excuse me? Can I ask you a question? I don't like to do TV something. Ok, thank you! Very nice outfit! What do you have for question? First of all, if you are from Liechtenstein? Ok, yes! Yes -Oh, you are from Liechtenstein?! Nice to meet you, Staffan. We travel and make videos about We're trying to meet someone Yeah. It's difficult to go up there and have a meeting. - It's difficult? Is there somebody that Either the government protocol or the Liechtenstein marketing Do you have a minute to take us there? We can walk, and then - What was your name? Walter, Oh! I love the name Walter. - And you were born and raised here? That's incredible. How far back does your family go? My great grandparents are from here. Wow! It's an honor to meet you and we only meet people Do people feel connected Yes. What is significant for a Liechtensteiner? You would say like, We are friendly, Open-minded. Yes we are a little proud because we are small have a special identity and passport and so on. Have you met anyone from the royal family? Yeah, sure. Okay. And you know, every Liechtensteiner is in the castle once in a life. When he's full-aged, 18. Yeah They have an invitation in the castle. You were in the castle, Yes. Wow, hat's so cool! And other times too. - So nice to meet you. - Thank you. See you. Wow, did that just happen? You convinced him, you all right, I'll talk to you. I think he's being humble. I think he's more closely I think he's one step away. Than he alludes, yeah, I think he probably has one You can see from his smile! And a lot of times, too. &quot;Got him&quot; - Hello, hello! Hi, thanks and you? Fantastic, I'm living the dream. &quot;Living the dream?&quot; So, our dream... Yes. Is to meet someone Oh, yeah. Yeah, this is a dream. So without getting any good response Has anyone done this No, not really. Like this, it's not... I don't know. We at least came out with something. Can we get two pins of the flag? That was a really bad sign. - I think we are making progress. So we went to the next This is the government And we have one big dream, and that dream would be to, have an interview with We... The most dreams, it's not possible. '' WORLD'S WORST PEP TALK'' That was another unpromising. But despite the rejection, That's epic. Hello, do you speak English? Yes, I do. Amazing! My name is Thomas Brag. And after a lengthy phone call, we made a very promising step forward. We were given the email of So we decided to go This is Walter's restaurant. To write our legendary email. We are in Liechtenstein to do a story about exploring We are available anytime, - but hopefully as soon as possible. Sent. Come on, come on then. And after dancing around it all day, it felt like we had to go straight I think we need to And maybe it I'm not insinuating that we should at a castle that is a tourist attraction there's got to be that we can say, hey, We want to meet the king. I swear to God, I think she probably Even that woman at the visiter center Yes. -Hey! I know you're ... Billionaire, prince... Just checking in if we This is either the best Or the worst decision. Oh my god! How can we approach it without... No entrance! In every language don't enter Maybe we should knock on that door, yeah. Hello! How are you? Do you think there is any chance Do you believe in us? No! No? Okay! Thank you! So, this was a bad idea. They did not want people here. So far, literally nobody thinks we have Like, I thought when we came here, I thought maybe 40% Now, feeling like 14% chance. If you're seeing this footage, Something worth you Okay, before we go any further, there is a myth that I've wanted which is that cows Apparently, if you play it, they come up to you and So we're going to try to while telling you about the Surfshark and they have a you're not going to want to miss. May the experiment begin. It's working. I think it's working. Okay, so as we wait and Surfshark is a VPN that a protective cloak for It encrypts your internet connection to spy on your online activities Oh, this one is working. We're testing if cows Ah! Okay! And it's working, they come and listen. They like Mozart more than Beethoven. My favorite part about Surfshark is that I know I'm late to the party, but I've become a And it plays on Netflix in France, but not in most other countries. So by using a VPN, you can just select your computer to be set for essentially any location and log on to use the local Netflix. So when I travel, like I just set my location to be in France and I can actually watch The The deal that Surfshark has Using code YESTHEORY at checkout or going to surfshark.deals/YESTHEORY You can get three months But on top of that, you get $50 on anything to This is... I think it's actually They actually like classical My friends, this is a get access to so many and then get yourself an awesome Check out the link in with our lovely partner And I hope that you because this is clearly working. Okay, let's continue the mission So, we have a side quest, And I think that we might be able to use If we can get on the and even if a few I feel like we might increase our I like these guys, they sound fun. You know what I mean? I don't think they're gonna like us. I think they're gonna love us. Are you just calling the radio station? Yeah, let's go for it. Yeah, hello, my friend. Do you speak English? My name is Staffan. We have this goal and our it's to reach a radio station. Let me ask the responsible person, Okay, amazing yeah. We're getting there. And we let our But maybe one of the royals, they like to work and have and then they hear us too, and they're like, I'm going to invite So after failing relentlessly, we went back to the only person We are looking for Walter Walter Hagen? Yeah, Walter Hagen. Yeah. -How are you? Good to see you again. Again, we hope we're We're just happy to see you again. What do you like, iced Ooh, lemonade would be great. It's maybe a big question, but how does your journey start? &quot;Cue: best conversation of our lives&quot; -See you, see you. I freaking love Walter! He's amazing! We had like one hour He's got multiple restaurants. We landed on a powerful man, actually. We did, we did. And I'm 100% sure that he is a lot closer to the And I'm gonna ask you, before you even get to the final part to hit the like button down below. 40% of the people who watch So there is a very high probability Most people don't really go If you can do it, Leave a comment if you're Give us a boost. It will give us boost that right now is a little low. I have like a 30-40% But maybe an ice cream will... Will reboot. For you, the same? -I'll do the same. Thank you, man! Julian, from the government, he tried to call me 10 minutes ago. Guten tag, Julian! Hello, my friend. Hi, hi! I talked to and I don't really have Ah, you don't have good news. I see. They were basically all They were like, yeah No chance they are So the radio station is no The email... We've been ghosted by every person, and the information I feel like we are getting to a point Day two, no leads. Not yet. And I also have a secret plan The radio station, what did They ghosted us. They ghosted us. And I found an address We could just drive And we knock on the door. Okay. Let's go ambush, I mean, On another note, I think we have This is where we parked. It's pretty incredible. Towards the radio station. Once again, uninvited, but I Yes, we'll make it happen. They've been ignoring us. They said,we'll call you back. That was 24 hours ago. Okay, man. Good. We're coming. We're inviting Hi. How are you? Hi, I'm Thomas. Okay, I'm Chris. Hi. Hi, I'm Staffan. Nice to meet you. What are you doing here? We have a channel So we have like a series and one of them was Okay. Yes. So are we in the right place? Yes, you are. Okay, good. You'd like to hear a yes, right? We would love to. Okay Tomorrow in the afternoon? That would be great. Okay. That would be super fun. We just walked in here by chance. We didn't think you were going to First I thought, yeah. Amazing Nice to meet you, and Bye. It's crazy That was great. Super friendly. It feels like we've been and nothing has happened yet. But... It feels like we're After beginning to make we decided to start planning throwing a party for strangers, and we think we knew the And we are back again, not for the first time, it's for the third time, Hello! Hello again! How are you? Is Walter here? You can maybe say it's his We are friends, right? Is anybody else cringing Coming to somebody to now ask him to... Walter, sorry! We have a question and think is a good idea. The dream we have is to arrange a smaller and invite people and we would love Friday, 48 hours, it's plenty of time. I can organize this What do you think? I think so, yes. And not too many people, you know, we can decide how many Maybe 200, 300 people. Maybe I contact you. Yeah, that would be great. I'll come with my son, maybe And have a drink somewhere. That would be great, yeah, Then we speak about Friday. -Alright! We will be back! But now we actually have a... we don't have a venue, We're celebrating I think he's gonna say yes. You can see it in his eyes. He's gonna say yes, he's gonna say yes. And the prince will come I think this will be good. You know, if anybody To where? To where did you say? -Keep this in the edit, keep this. &quot;Wrong country loser!!!&quot; Another side quest was having a local So that sounded like a to go out that night for a drink How's it going? It's a little quiet. Nice to meet you! Hi, I'm Sataffan Cheers! Thank you for inviting You have an amazing dad, so Thank you Did he tell you how we met? Yeah, he told me. Just on the street At first I was sceptical, no,no... -No TV. And after only one drink, Let's go clubbing! Let's go dance. I'm too tired. Hi Michael. nice to meet you Hi, Staffan. We went to the same See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. The journey continues tomorrow. I can't believe we're And after catching up with we were feeling optimistic about But the next day started Nothing is working, so we're Hi, Nicole, this is Thomas. Wanted to follow up and see if you Actually, I have never Oh, I sent it two days ago. I will check your and yes, you will hear from us. -Okay. All right, bye-bye. -Have a nice evening. -Bye Damn it, she had So we've been sitting and Now it's already Thursday. Thursday at 5 p.m. So they have one day to consider It's terrible. We thought we could try by inviting some which also didn't Hey, hi. Can we ask you a quick question? No, I don't want to be on the video. Okay, thank you. -Are you from Liechtenstein? Are you from Liechtenstein? Nice place, yeah. Nice baby. So this evening. This evening, yeah. Unfortunately, we live in Zurich. You're pretty good at You, like, say a half-hello to Hello guys, are you No worries. I'm invisible. Damn,That hurts. He just pointed at his Hello, hello. Can I ask you a question? You look very friendly. I am friendly. I can feel it. My son is very Great. We would love to meet your son. Wait, the castle is calling me. Well, okay, answer. It said reception castle calling. The castle is right up there. Come on. Hello, this is Thomas. I just missed a call. Hello Thomas, I received Thank you very much Unfortunately, I cannot We have tried to organize a brief Their calendar is already so full. Do you think that early next I only see slots on but probably that is I mean, we could be flexible. You are very flexible, Thomas. Yes, we are. Okay, I get back to and see if he's willing and sees an option on either Amazing, that would be incredible. You'll hear from me. Well done, first of all. She is the main secretary. My emotions right now, it just to becoming crushed when and now, like, the door opened again. We're like that friend that you, and they're like, And I'm like, I'm free this weekend. I'm free next week, I can hang out anytime, any day. Next month, I'm free next month. You're very flexible, Thomas. And all of a sudden, it started to I just got an email from the radio. Dear guys from Sweden, I can confirm that you Is this okay for you? Let's go! I got an email from Liechtenstein's and they would love to meet us. And I just got a text we're going to go on Are you serious? We're Three for three. There's nothing left after that. Not only would this count as it would be our ultimate chance to get the attention of and hopefully convince them. Hello! Glad you made it. Okay, it's time. National newspaper. -Hi! We have arrived to 1FL TV, Hello, hello. Nice to meet you. TV, TV! Wow, okay! We are in the national Non stop music hour... Hello! Great, all right let's do it. We're seeking to Through that, we feel that and the place more deeply. Our YouTube channel started with the idea One of our missions, which was to try to meet and shake the -I did. Can we shake your hand? That's the closest we've been. But so far, it's been very difficult. We've been told it's impossible. If someone from the royal We are hosting a local party, and we would love to invite you. It sounds great. If you guys want to come. I'm free. And who's invited? The two of you and ... That's what I wanted to hear. Just in the moment where it we got the call we've Thomas? Yes? I unfortunately don't It's not possible next week. It's just too busy these days and we don't see a A meeting, even if it's just a Sorry, I'm very sorry. Yeah, it's all right, I understand. Thanks for your understanding. -Bye. Damn it! We were doing so good. We gave it all. What's the lesson here? I think that a billionaire Who would have thought? And after we'd now officially we decided to sulk in Or a long while. The sting of failure is brutal. But we realized that to be impossible we still had the most important And there was someone even that we wanted to spend the night with. Three, two, one, to our party tonight. Whoa. We printed four for you. We all know them You knew Walter? Yeah. Thank you. He is the royal we needed. We keep saying, like, oh, And they're like, Royal Walter, our royal. Can I ask you a quick question? Tonight, we are arranging a party. -You know Walter? Here's the invitation as well. So we became friends Yes, I know him. Oh, you know him, Is there anyone who So, thank you. Maybe see you later. Maybe see you later. Nice to meet you, brother. How you doing man? Nice to meet you, man. -You should come by. Yeah, I will. What's up man! Bro, this is so crazy. We're having a -No, for real? For real? You're doing Here's our invitation So cute! We're making progress here. We're making friends. The Liechtensteiners Yes, we know Walter. Okay, you know Walter. Would you like to come tonight? Yes. Are we friends now? Yes. Hi! and right now we're in Lichtenstein I would love for you to join us. Why not? -Have a good one. I mixed up the name of the country That's Nils. What the hell is this? Our car. Hi man! You look great, man. Thank you, thank you. This is your car? I've never seen a car like that. How are you Yeah, really great. Because it is like the first time like Like just so random as well. What do you mean? It's not random at all. Walter! Hey, you look great. Look at this shirt. This is a small gift, Walter, but we see you This is a small, small gift, too. Can I put them here? Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's whispering me Exactly, exactly. There's nobody that we invited, who were like, oh Walter, Yeah Perfect, so we're just Every time we say I hope so. So you're the one Yes. He has the key to Liechtenstein, and He loves giving you compliments I'm very shy, you know I get red Nice to meet you. Amazing, we just wanted to This is a very spontaneous Ultimately, it is at the core of which is to meet new people And so we're very, very grateful to have found the perfect When we first arrived, it A lot of people in suits, and everything looked And we were like, I don't know how And you guys are delivering proof So clap up to all of you. There was one man Welcome up, Mr. Walter Hagen. I come with my present How do you feel now? So... And I say always, no risk no fun. No risk no .... There is a risk to because we actually so this is a little... This is a little... Our first friend her in Liechtenstein. I ll hang it up at a special place. It's actually an other text here So, as strangers on to friends we won't easily forget. You said yes to show us around, and in your great city, You brought a lot of shared stories and even a beer. With your son, we had such fun. Learning from you both, We searched for the royals But there's yet to be found. Thank you, very much. No, that's best to you, there is a little bit more. So thank you, Walter, for making our trip so much more. So, for Walter! -Thank you man, thank you! You spelt Liechtenstein wrong... Hey, it's okay, it's okay man... What a nice beer! It would be great to He's getting adopted. We are giving him up I'm happy I got him. It's all good! Can I see an ID on you sir? ID? Thank you, Walter. I'm very proud, happy that I met you. Same. And inspired. I will find a place for the picture. Maybe we should print you one No, that's cool. I have a amazing days with you Yeah! -Same Same, same. I want a last hug. Yeah okay, Thomas. -Thank you! Thank you Thank you You are welcome See you brother! -I am gonna miss. You've just been here a few days but... Yes, right? To be honest, when we really weren't sure If our failure in meeting our primary to make a whole But this evening and the helped us quickly forget about the If you're a royal watching this, We'd come back for a high five. But really, if you are in Liechtenstein you'll find him in his very own We couldn't be more grateful for And who knows, maybe