I do want to take a moment and say to I don't wear a red hoodie for just anything...fall a very strong end to this year. How many have some catching up to do because it We're going to believe God that every blessing receive this year God would compress into these going to give you supernatural guidance, his that's what I want to preach about blessing God wants to give you. Sometimes so prepare for it. Tell your neighbor I want to share some time chapter 32. Remain standing for the reading of our eFam around the world. Let's thank that they would receive the flow of this Elevation Ballantyne. Put those hands I had a hard time deciding how much of this to at least verse 7, so buckle in. This passage you who are wrestling with something, and you've you are because of what you're wrestling Genesis, chapter 32, verse 7. The Bible says, people who were with him into two groups, and the 'If Esau comes and attacks one group, for everybody who is kind of a You start making all of these plans and backup you start working it out. Jacob is doing that his brother, was coming to attack him. But look at &quot;Then Jacob prayed...&quot; So, watch this. Verse 8: You know, the Devil shouldn't have let you get and you've been thinking about the attack, today and lifted your eyes to him... Come on. &quot;Then Jacob prayed, 'O God of my father Abraham, &quot;Go back to your country and your relatives, and the kindness and faithfulness you have shown your Jordan, but now I have become two camps. Save for I am afraid he will come and attack me, But you have said, &quot;I will surely make you the sand of the sea, which cannot be and from what he had with him he selected to read you the whole list just so &quot;...two hundred female goats and twenty male thirty female camels with their young, forty cows said a few verses ago, &quot;I started with just a female donkeys and ten male donkeys. He put them and said to his servants, 'Go ahead of me, He instructed the one in the lead: 'When &quot;Who do you belong to, and where are you going, and who owns all these animals in front of your servant Jacob. They are a gift sent to He also instructed the second, the third He's covering all of his bases for this &quot;'You are to say the same thing to Esau &quot;Your servant Jacob is coming behind us.&quot;' gifts I am sending on ahead; later, when So Jacob's gifts went on ahead of him, camp. That night Jacob got up and took and his eleven sons...&quot; That would keep the 2 wives...all of it. That would give me a Lunesta strong enough for this situation. is what he's dealing with. He took all of After he had sent them across the stream, he sent and a man wrestled with him till daybreak. When he touched the socket of Jacob's hip so with the man. Then the man said, 'Let me 'I will not let you go unless you today on the subject The Blessing of Father, your Word is eternal. It produces what you intend for it to accomplish. May it be your children, and today, when we'll give you all the praise because On your way to your seat, tell your neighbor, That first time you sounded like you were I sent you to apologize, like your mom made you need to sell something to eat tonight and I mean, even the most basic reading of this have to get into all of the nuances of, You don't even have to get into that to be This one verse is confusing just by itself, the who turns out to be an angel of God or an at the time, because it's not always obvious Sometimes you will give the Devil credit for &quot;The Devil is testing me.&quot; No, God is training it was God with Jacob. But the confusing thing reading that whole list of rams, bulls, goats, He turns around and says to whatever he's what it is yet... He says (verse 26), &quot;I will already blessed? I'm just asking the obvious. them? I wasn't counting them. There were so I mean, in Hebrew culture, the proof of who would later go on to be the tribes but Benjamin completes the roster, the starting traveling with him, and he's blessed. If you &quot;Yes.&quot; He even said to God when he was praying, I'm looking at a life I couldn't imagine, and now I'm living in something I never my past.&quot; It reminded me of a conversation I with me about the pressure he faces on &quot;I just need to be more grateful. God has given We went through a list of some of the end of him talking about how he felt so I asked him a question, and it's a helpful &quot;You keep saying you're not as grateful as you but I wonder if what you're calling a isn't just the load of pressure you feel So, I don't think it's necessarily that you that you know God has given you. I think it's but...'&quot; Look at your neighbor again and say, &quot;Yes, voice like that. Look at them again and say, message &quot;Yes, I'm Blessed, But...&quot; When you came It's amazing to me how Jacob could be so given so many things, but the Bible says he was and in the same prayer that he's telling God, &quot;You out of my life,&quot; he's reminding God he has a So, he looked up one night and saw all but he also saw Esau. Not physically, but about Esau? Esau is the brother who was to rightfully carry the birthright But Jacob tricked his father into giving him blind, so Jacob dressed up like he was Esau. &quot;I've got some of his clothes. I can make and Isaac won't know the difference, instead,&quot; because she kind of liked So they switched it up and bamboozled the background of this story. Jacob is 20 years since he has seen Esau. He has been He lived with Uncle Laban for most of those (you read about that in the text), Rachel and personality. Now he's going back with everything but... He has a thousand reasons to be thankful. has exhibit A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, and K story of how God told his grandfather Abraham, He knows all of that so well he can in perfect prose and remind God of how far God has done for him. He's very blessed, as we bring God our praise for I need all of the blessed people hands and thank God that he blessed you, you probably wouldn't be here. If he led you, shown you, crowned you, clothed here if you weren't so blessed. High-five &quot;I'm blessed. God gave me kids. We struggled kids. I'm blessed. Children are a blessing, but... I about it later. In fact, I don't talk to anybody 'but.' You don't talk about my 'but.' I'm going to I'm going to cover my 'but.' I'm going to post up on Instagram are all of my blessings. Now, the thing about the passage I need the blessing does not mean the absence of the things we feel. Sometimes we get &quot;I'm blessed, and I know I should trust through before. I am blessed. I have seen but I'm waking up lately at 3:00 in the morning, I'm working through scenarios right now that I mean, don't get me wrong, man. I'm not in here go back to the doctor next Wednesday. And he's my of wonder what this doctor is going to say describing scenarios. These aren't my scenarios. A man told me, &quot;I'm so grateful God allowed me to my shoulder right now. I'm coming in, and I'm pray for me, Pastor? Because I trust God, but but this hurts. I'm waking up with this at night. Would you just pray for me? I Don't get this confused. The load I carry does doubt his love for me. I'm blessed, but... &quot;Yes, I'm Yes, I'm blessed, but I still can't understand because there's something driving me back to Yes, I'm blessed, and I'm not complaining, who doesn't even have food to eat. So I'm appreciate what God gave me. I know overeating problem to have anyway, but I still have and I don't know how to control it, because &quot;I'm forgiven of my sin, but I don't feel but it's still going on in my house. I can say songs with you. I'm blessed, but...&quot; You probably but... This is what I feel sometimes when people uses you to help thousands of people through It is a blessing, but... Y'all don't just the Holy Spirit just flows, and I because it's his work, not my work, and but sometimes I want to get up and say what I The amazing thing about this wrestling match... not confusing, but it shows what Jacob is going and he has sent everything has to deal with Esau. He thinks What happens is he has a fight he didn't plan for to have that he thinks he's going to have. This fighting battles that probably aren't even going to do the things you can do, to affect what The Bible says that after Jacob was separated ewes, Rachel, Leah, Simeon, Levi, and all of these all gone, it says in verse 24, &quot;So Jacob was left Now, I have been in a nostalgia hole all week I don't mean the kind where they compete on a Horsemen. I'll be honest. I even went past... I quit even went past when I stopped watching wrestling, That was heartbreaking, because when I was growing my prayers. I had a little Hulk Hogan workout watch Hulk Hogan look at the crowd and say, &quot;Shove our hero. How could you do this to me?&quot; I was through the lens of Jacob. I was trying to figure it right here. You know, they have a lot of I heard one wrestler say something. He was like, &quot;Let me slam you, and then you can see how when the Bible says he was wrestling, and two things. First, no one else got to see how Secondly, he wrestled at night, which was struggling with. Isn't that the nature talking about where the issues show up in of the issue. The source of the issue So, if you live your whole life thinking, &quot;Oh, against them. I need to convince them, if they the source of your struggle. If they are the If they're external, if it's an issue... If it's the strength is also external, because the source the strength you need to defeat that struggle. When I'm fighting with something I can see, I need against something that is visible, I need to fight when the fight is happening at night? What do I that I can't even really tell you about and I'm Because I'm blessed, but... I'm thankful, but... want to preach this message to you, because better on Sunday without the &quot;but.&quot; But when be the pastor, you can bring your &quot;blessed What does that mean? You can come in come in conflicted. What does that mean? You don't have to shout. You don't have to clap. to have a highlighter. You don't have to know quote the Apostles' Creed. You don't have to You can be conflicted and still come. In this come in here with questions and not even leave &quot;I met with God fresh, and the angel told me You're blessed, but you struggle. You're but you're still not completely healed from it but there's a part of me that still can't but I still replay it in my mind. I'm blessed, but I'm blessed, but I still can't make sense out of it. I'm blessed, but I still feel exhausted when but I spend so much time wondering, 'Can I keep keep it up.&quot; Here's the good news: if he started You need to remember that the source determines then it's on you to keep it going, but my life. When I give him praise, it takes praise God at Elevation Church very externally I'm like, &quot;Why is it shocking?&quot; The world if it's crazy externally and verbally, then I need to fight it externally and &quot;Esau is going to kill you,&quot; I need to speak your word on this. I have your assurance on So Jacob... Oh, I love this story. It's so been blessed by grabbing on to what he wanted. out to do something... This is how ambitious Jacob and he came out... All y'all Bible nerds, He came out grabbing the heel of his they saw him doing that, and they were like, &quot;We grabber. What amazing creativity. Secondly, the rest of his life and the way so many of us Let me be honest with you. We live in a time with discipline. To be a good Christian, in I'm going to read the Bible. This is how much Bible and pray a lot and more and more every day. That isn't what makes you a Christian. That That isn't even what makes you a strong how much you read the Bible. That the gospel way. The reason I know that in my thinking the blessing of God was something I For all of the Christian control freaks, which as I'm married by age 23.&quot; &quot;God, I give you my in the right market and I like the climate &quot;God, here are our children. We I believe she would make a great worship leader and she should sing just like that. I know and she can be just like that girl Tiffany. That So, the interesting thing for me in my life Christ without trying to control his will in my with God while staying surrendered to is not as easy as it seems, because really committed to trying to get God to bless life together,&quot; committed to &quot;I really want to want to be an example, make a difference, have Really committed to that, but and you cannot follow Christ and have control. want it to be where Jesus lets you code him, you get to give him the thing, but every time Every time in my life he brings me into something time in my life he sets me free from something I cannot reach toward what he's giving There are a lot of us who are not going to get let go of what we held to in the previous. There on. I'm telling you, sometimes you have &quot;I don't care how many things blow against I don't care how many years pass. There are blessings that only come from you're not leaving until you bless me. I need a fresh blessing. I've got a fresh test; I need going to let you go unless you bless me.&quot; Then God Let go of the way you thought it was supposed standards that have nothing to do with Let go of the expectations of perfection you through the perfect work of Jesus and is There are some blessings you can get by His father blessed him. He got the blessing the naming rights of the children, He got blessed by Isaac, but he didn't So, you say, &quot;Wait a minute. You read to being blessed is holding on.&quot; Sometimes little bit farther in this passage and see this season. I believe God has a blessing for you that your ears haven't heard, that that you will be speaking about There is a blessing that comes from holding through tenacity. &quot;Then the man said, 'Let me 'I will not let you go unless you bless far it seems like Jacob got this blessing right now you're trying to do it like You're trying to face it like you always faced angel said. This is the turning point in this you. &quot;But Jacob replied, 'I will not let you 'What is your name?' 'Jacob,' he answered. Then but Israel, because you have struggled with When he said, &quot;What is your name?&quot; it reminds called his son to bless him. He thought he was &quot;Who are you?&quot; and the voice came back, saying, In two days, there will be enraged about Halloween. Is it right or is it not discuss that in this pulpit today. That is not tell you one thing God is very concerned about. Anytime you start putting on clothes, anytime you start putting on something that anytime you start dressing yourself, the acceptance or the approval, it's always &quot;I don't need you to be Esau to bless you, The real you, the short you, the tall &quot;When I bless you, you won't have to praise me, because I am the source of your So, Jacob was already blessed, but &quot;After all I've done for you, do you still not head and not the tail. You're blessed. You are chosen and loved as the apple of his eye. You are You are the purchased of God. You blessing. Now shout like you know who blessed you know who to go back to when God, it's me. It's your boy. It's your High-five 11 people and say, &quot;Yes, but I'm blessed. I'm not perfect, but I'm but I'm blessed. Let me just be real with you. He places. I've got it in the heavenly realm. The Bible says he blessed him there in the God wants to give you today? A surrender of who you really are. I wonder if anybody I've got to warn you. It's not like changing changing your name on wrestling. It's not is a letting go that feels like death, but today and impart to you in the name of Jesus Not when you're driving home. that's the time to drive the car. I want to say &quot;I won't let go until you bless me, God. the Holy Spirit saying, &quot;I can't bless When God showed me that, it was like, &quot;Oh, I works,&quot; because this goes against my control freak the Bible. I want to achieve this thing. I us the New Testament example of Paul. He said, successes in the spiritual, religious realm A Pharisee of Pharisees, a Hebrew of Hebrews, eighth day. I studied under Gamaliel. What? in order to balance these great revelations a messenger of Satan sent to buffet me.&quot; You'll bigger the blessing, the bigger the buffet to keep As a matter of fact, Paul said, and three times I asked God to take do it.&quot; Have you been asking God and he won't do it? This is your verse right here. Paul, the great apostle, who took the mission seemed too distant, who spoke with eloquence yet that the philosophers were confounded... Paul with all my blessings. I'm blessed. Don't get I preached with such power that people were blessed to be able to do that. Yes, I'm blessed, and he said, 'No. But my grace is sufficient.'&quot; thought it was supposed to be. You That's where the transformation is. That's where &quot;What is your name?&quot; He said, &quot;Jacob. I'm not not striving to be something anymore. I'm not all of you who think you need approval from a If the person gives it, the person can take it, Let them say what they want, think what they take what they want, leave what they want. me. I might look alone, but I'm not alone. The All your life, like Jacob, you have been running to be successful, that you thought you needed to be to be worthy, that you thought you needed that you thought you needed to be Can you imagine the moment of release when your name?&quot; When you say your name, you receive that isn't awfully popular in pulpits where the I came with a little different twist. For some for some of the &quot;Esaus&quot; you're facing, Let go. Quit trying to live out your high Let go. He's good at video games. You can you in the text something you never expected You're up all night thinking about it. You're have lists on lists on lists. &quot;And if it does Then he prayed, and guess what happened he got up the next morning and saw &quot;He's going to kill me now. Oh, don't know. I hope that sermon worked he preached really hard. He preached as hard as he to see this. Will you help me illustrate this? For 20 years, he has been thinking, &quot;If me.&quot; The guilt you carry, the shame you carry, everything you worry about at night... Watch what to meet Jacob and embraced him...&quot; Wow! The thing &quot;...he threw his arms around his neck...&quot; First it to act all this out. Don't worry. But you get times, putting on a big show. All of the things God never told us to do. All of the ways we wear For 20 years, he worried about this moment, yet &quot;What's all this stuff you brought?&quot; Jacob said, your servant. I probably should have stopped Verse 6: &quot;Then the female servants and their Leah and her children came and bowed down. Last bowed down.&quot; Jacob put the pretty wife behind Look at verse 8. This is the point. all these flocks and herds I met?'&quot; &quot;What's peace with me?&quot; &quot;'To find favor in your &quot;But Esau said, 'I already have plenty, my Esau was already blessed. If he would have spent but he said, &quot;You know what? I let Let that thing go. Let it go. God is not you. Let it go. He has not abandoned you. coming forth stronger. You're coming at least three people and say, &quot;Let that This is your moment to let go, and when you let that you will not have room enough to receive. house in the place of the shame that Christ took new opportunities. In the place of your &quot;Let I'm blessed. Yes, I'm chosen. Yes, I'm sealed. God the best &quot;Yes&quot; praise we've given him all day. What are you so afraid of if you have angels? this letting go today for you would take when you lie down to sleep, your sleep will because you have met with him. God is &quot;How do I deal with it? How do I deal with How do I do it?&quot; Okay. God says, &quot;Every time with that you can't get over), pray to pray to your provider. Then when you pray, Every time you feel the hurt, every time you for his forgiveness for you and that person, has for you in the future, you cannot afford to guilt. It's too big for you to be burdened. I expect God everywhere I go, and because I'm So, now, Lord, we come to you, the blesser the blesser when we rise up, the blesser when We declare now that your face is turning some today this will be a good reminder. For Let go. God says, &quot;It's me. I'm Jacob. I'm changing your name. I surrender all, All to thee, my blessed Savior, Let go. He's got it. I surrender all, All to thee, my blessed Savior, With your heads bowed and your eyes closed, I to give your life to Jesus Christ. You will get to him by trying, only through receiving his are probably a lot of you who need to make this to turn from your sin and to realize there is a standing ready and willing to forgive you, So, right now, we're going those online as well. If this is your moment and while you were preaching, I realized I need to receive this gift of salvation through We're going to pray as a church family out loud for the first time or back to God in this God will hear you, and this will be Heavenly Father, I am a and I believe that Jesus Christ is the and today I make Jesus the Lord of my life. and rose again to give me life. I receive On the count of three, shoot your hand up celebrating with you right now. That's amazing. God for everybody who just made that decision Let's thank God one more time for the great all of our campus pastors, you can take I bless you here at Ballantyne? Stick with me because you've been saying, &quot;I don't know &quot;You don't have to. You weren't the I have a Scripture for you. This is a Ballantyne Y'all fight through the parking, you get the you are. Are you ready for this? Oh, great &quot;Praise be to the God and Father of our the heavenly realms with every spiritual before the creation of the world to be holy and for adoption to sonship through Jesus Christ, the praise of his glorious grace, which he In him we have redemption through his blood, the riches of God's grace that he lavished he made known to us the mystery of his which he purposed in Christ, to be put fulfillment--to bring unity to all things In him we were also chosen, having been who works out everything...&quot; Oh, he's working it it out. &quot;...in conformity with the purpose I'm blessed!&quot; You're dismissed. I'll see you hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus