Soak it, salt it, and -- shove a nail through it? If you want the perfect baked Technically, you can use any type of spud a potato is a potato, right? But why not the disappointment of eating bland and types of potatoes are undisputedly the best and flavor that make them the star For perfectly crisp baked potatoes, russets are meaning the cooked insides will fluff up its dry, white skin will crisp up to a Conversely, waxy red potatoes are a poor choice shape and won't cave under high temperatures. Not for consistent results, with medium-sized According to one Reddit user, if you want your make sure you don't skip the a simple soak will transform your The science behind this magic is simple. the potatoes to soak up plenty of moisture. The need to let the potatoes rest in the water for no you'll end up with soggy spuds that will have Once the moisture has seeped in, you can steps to bake it. We think the result resulting in the fluffiest, If you have been using plain water for key ingredient. Adding a dash of salt to cold Since you're bathing them anyway, why not add add flavor, and crisp them up? Apart from that potatoes taste an order of magnitude It's clear that salt does wonders to but that's not the only reason you should be Boss the Kitchen, soaking potatoes in cold called acrylamide from potatoes. This per the National Cancer Institute, and is are cooked under high heat. Improving flavor Of course, now that you've soaked your you should include: drying. That's of a big deal. Skipping this step is a Why? Well, if you don't thoroughly soggy mess that lacks the gorgeous golden You really need to dry the spuds after you can save your potatoes from turning into one Redditor argues that this step Use paper towels, cloth towels, or even napkins really matter what you use, so long as is clean and sanitary. Leave the potatoes out start working on them. You'll see that the world and can help turn average baked Finding out your baked potato is still hard heartbreaking. Sometimes, the oven might be for the heat to penetrate the skin and soften microwave is all you need to ensure your potatoes recommend relying solely on the microwave. While doing so will likely result in Per Boss The Kitchen, you can do a quick pre-cook on both sides to ensure the flesh is nice and your potatoes in the oven to allow the skin Just hit the potato button on the microwave for a few minutes in the microwave so if you're in a hurry, it's a Baking potatoes in aluminum foil is a big fat that have been flavored with disappointment though. You'll find that the internet is before you bake potatoes in the oven, foil simply traps the moisture around your instead of baked potatoes, you'll have steamed According to the Idaho Potato Commission, to cut down on baking time. If you you can try using a bread warmer or place them Preheating your oven can make or break two elements affect the flavor and texture of the into a cold oven sets up your food for a disaster, According to many recipes, you need an hour perfectly. This time includes a preheat, where degrees Fahrenheit for best results. We've our time in the oven, at least if we've take a breath and remember to hit What's more, taking the time to preheat is your oven is working correctly. You can do oven is heating up to the temperature Preheating your baking tray is nothing short of every oven can have uneven heating that leaves Preheating your baking tray helps to ensure hefty potatoes that need just the right time to Furthermore, this step also saves time by Since the oven tray is already hot, your potatoes ready to become delicious and hot. Preheating Simply toss the tray into the oven and let As if that weren't enough, consider texture. One Quora user who works at a the oven to help create a crust on baked goods If you've forgotten to puncture your round thud in the oven: the sound of exploding potatoes. tiny little exits you've created. Otherwise, might make it explode, making you scream While it doesn't happen all the time, it's always that since potatoes are full of water, the as a barrier. To prevent them from bursting, it's you're more likely to have a potato explode when Often we're in a rush and just wish baked potatoes in a second. We're and a bit of science instead. The magic According to the blog for the potato this little-known food accessory can decrease a depending on size and variety of the potato. conduct heat to the middle of the potato, while Chef Cristian Feher explains that these screws heat from the oven to inside the potato to that you won't be biting into any hard your potato has done its time in When making many potato dishes, you've although edible, are undesirable and visually these spots indicate that the potatoes bruised skin. These dark blemishes also been released into the surrounding flesh, Therefore, it's best to cut and throw compromise the flavor of your baked potato. potato has been cooked, you can easily Per Leaf, there's a second kind of working with russet potatoes. This one as a &quot;hollow heart.&quot; Don't worry about the It's basically a deformity. Simply scrape When you're in a hurry, you might be tempted can cook up quicker or you can achieve though, lest you experience some drastic the motive, you need to be mindful of the Taste Essence suggests that the oven temperature should be between 400 to 425 degrees. The Idaho 400 degrees Fahrenheit for an hour in the oven. internal temperature of 210 degrees, as well. If on cooking time, you'll have an uncooked center While overripe spuds may be just about they're a big no-no when it comes to baking. according to PureWow. Dry, shriveled, and kind of texture you'll want to eat. A surefire simply touch them. Potatoes that are slightly fine to eat. However, any softer, and Even if you use mildly soft you're still running a risk. The food blog the potatoes you're hoping to use just aren't soft spuds will often lack the more rich flavor