Story is a five-second moment of change. Wow! from the emotion. The only things people Wait, so hold on here, stop the podcast. So The real great writers I believe Oh, interesting. Dave Chappelle, Hasan Minhaj, those are teach a 30-second masterclass. It's just this. wanted to learn from. I've spent a lot of time listening to good storytellers but Shaan has and you hear people saying all the time, &quot;Oh, really good at it.&quot; But there's not a lot frameworks like he does. So this is a masterclass I said this to you when we first shook hands, but in terms of how much I've admired a guest and and so I just want to compliment you on that, and do really well in your writing that I'm not where I just have a bunch of questions and I'm place I want to start is storytelling. I have Before you do storytelling, can I give Yeah. first of all, very specific, but the second thing you said where you're like, I started going whatever you said, my, whatever. Your score went these two guys, Dylan and Henry. They're young were recording these videos. I was like, &quot;How &quot;Oh, nobody watches these,&quot; and I'm like, &quot;But somebody will watch these?&quot; He's like, &quot;Yeah, And I was like, &quot;What's a Binge Bank?&quot; stack material so that even though each one of it'd be discouraging, not that many people we started thinking about it differently, instead, many views, but I'm creating a bank where if I want to learn more. What is this guy all about?&quot; my reputation would be way higher with you. You you would respect me, and it changed the because I used to be very results driven. it's hard for me to get excited about it. I just thought, oh, I need to create this library he's going to spend an hour or two hours going breadcrumb trail that by the end he's like, Guess where I ended up? Guess what the final all right, I totally bought- probably forgot about is my guess. your main principles. That was like the pool I Who knows? But like that's the, you leave but this idea of create a Binge Bank I think is so It's like, people will come knocking, they will binge your content like it's a Netflix show and man. That's a goal I think people should have. Well, the first thing is you don't get discouraged first part, which is, if you create something you're either going to just willpower your way person and say, results take time. I'm neither of right? I kind of know that's the answer, but and the way to trick yourself is to say, oh yeah, this to be successful. This is for my Binge Bank. I want to have that as an asset that's there for go consume? And I started paying attention One of the things that you are very good at is skills, putting names to them and this is a good that you had this whole day, you're like, and he always comes back to this one core from storytelling and then maybe even The story tell thing is cool because I think pretty dope ability and I look for this mismatch you're not taught, or even better, it sounds lame like, &quot;Oh, this is a good one.&quot; Another example around somebody who's got high-energy, enthusiasm, it's a very likable trait, of course but generally you want to err on the side of have to do projects with, work with, be involved I'm practicing my enthusiasm. I'm practicing So if there's a thing that has value that other it's almost taboo or lame to say you do it. skills to me because you almost differentiate another one of those. Joke telling is another one funnier, they're like, are you trying to be a Yeah. everybody does. Whether it's relationships, work, humor level, if you're more humorous, people will what do you expect just to magically happen? We downstream of practice. So storytelling is one of I met somebody who was a great storyteller, I in the world at this?That's the next question. around was Aaron Sorkin, and he's written Newsroom, The Social Network movie. He's interviews he says this thing, they're like, a three hour masterclass?&quot; He's like, &quot;I could it's intention and obstacle. And he said it of intention and obstacle.&quot; And I was like, I but the way this guy's serious about it tells about? So what does this mean? Intention the hero of the story, whether it's you or a very clear intention. What do they want? How bad do they want it? What happens if they and then obstacle. Who's in the way? So way? Voldemort's trying to kill him. The most him. Intention and obstacle. And basically you should be able to pause at any moment and just want right now? And what's in their way? And if people will lose, their attention will drift away. central premise of any story, and what I realized is the fundamental building block of storytelling. about is, it doesn't have to be life or death. even gave was Harry Potter trying to live and cool. But you can shrink that down and actually and obstacle on a lower stakes moment. So I wanted I need my croissant. You need your croissant, but it and you got to tell it and be like, you got ideally, because you actually did. You don't I'll give you an example. I was at a executive got put on the exec team of this now 2,000 person never worked in a company bigger than 20 people, that's one of my tools in my toolkit. How can supposed to go around the circle and say, what's happened that you want to share with the group? did it in a work context. Oh, we're working on this problem or they quit or whatever. Oh, working got like boring, boring, boring, and I was like, okay, pause, right? Get people curious. I was young, right? So I was like, I just moved I've been living there for a year now, but I've &quot;Why don't you invite me over?&quot; What she over because I don't know how to host. over. I don't know how to do adult things. I had been trying to get her to treat me like an still a little boy. And so I'm telling the story I decided to cook Brussels sprouts, the most adult Brussels sprouts. So I'm doing it, blah, blah, sprouts and kid you not, everybody's entertained, everybody made a point to come up and be like, That was so funny. What was that? And what even And for me it was just another example of using builds likeability and fandom more so than avalanche. That's cool, but it's unrelatable and about it, and I want to write, usually if I want whatever. I'm trying to have fun, but people who like me or are fans of me or or whatever. I try to use likability for that. fancy dinner, it was like multi-billionaire's everyone is like, people had flown in for the across the table who I was a big fan of growing and it's my time to do the introduction. So I'm of my childhood hero's at nine o'clock. And I sort of put myself up and I talk about, I crushed it. Everyone loved this. And we're my buddy goes, &quot;Yo, you did the worst job &quot;What are you talking about?&quot; Every word to the He's like, &quot;No, you were just trying to sound funny story or you make a joke and you lighten Right. Yeah. That's, first of all great friend- ... To say that. Great friend. Can we call that from Hasan Minhaj, the comedian because &quot;Hey dude, you do this for a living. I don't comedy is a low status game. So he goes, you're so your natural tendency is going to be to puff he's like, actually what you want to do is build with people through vulnerability, through He starts his comedy special. I went and wrote last comedy special, he starts out, he's sitting him and his wife been trying to get pregnant to a doctor and he's like, &quot;The worst news basically,&quot; is there a lower status thing as a Also, just the way, that word Exactly. And so he's obviously a master at I'm in business. I don't try to learn how from business people. Why would I do that? their thing is storytelling or writing or the best at this. Aaron Sorkin, comedians, so I think that was one principle that, sounds How is storytelling different for It's not that different. In general, one of talk. Most people have this false thing we do. they're like, read Shakespeare, write these all this stuff, use big vocabulary. All the you learn in school. I think what school be something you're totally not. That's what good true. I think good writing is simple. Good writing read. Good writing has a voice. It's not just like the principles is write like you talk. So if I'm first and then I'll just write down what I said. most people, myself included, if you sit down, thing. It's very hard to even get started. But if the story? Forget the words. What are you trying time with the Brussels sprouts and blah, blah, great. Where did it start? What's the start blah, blah, and what's the end? Well, the end was you got a beginning, middle, end. You know what maybe now start writing. And so write like you thing is there are nuances that are different. parentheses because you can't do that in... you write but when you talk, it would be like me that route. It's like that's a parentheses it's actually much easier to do. But when you're How do you do a dramatic pause in writing? It's dot, dot, dot, whatever. You got to try that. but I would say 80 to 90% of it is the same to me. story? How you drag it out or compress platforms? How do you think about that? shorter the better. Too long is too boring. It just says, you can only be as long as it is be as long as it is interesting. If you can go all way, fantastic, that's the right length. what is your level of credibility or buy-in with a podcast. You could be like, dude, we could talk &quot;Oh, you just had Sam Altman on. Does he about writing for five minutes. Totally fine. you better have an amazing headline and a be right about the, match what the headline was So if you know your audience's level of buy-in very direct and immediate and try to provide value is a platform where you're swiping and if it's not So on TikTok, you see people right away try shoot the shit, and build, there's a chemistry from the podcast in the first 30 seconds, is not got to know your medium and you got to know your How do you think about the hooks for a story? and really studied is how fast they're able to words where some people just go on and on and on bring people into the story is super important. basically, it's the first thing you're going Great. I think actually right now, for the type of have studied a little bit of copywriting oh, this person's blowing up on Twitter, what the first line of their thread is like, here's immigrant took a simple thimble and turned it into sounding hook that you're like, oh, you have actually think that hook's somewhat overrated. frame is, you take an idea, an idea can be this So I can be like, I don't have a good example off talked about that Hasan Minhaj, the comedy thing. opening line. So I could just say, here's what here's what you can learn about public speaking world, Hasan Minhaj. So I could take the starting with a low status thing, but I can comedians. This is actually when you're at a intro and you don't know what the hell to say, You change the frame. And so I think that more you by the throat attention grabber is, think are about the words you're going to write, frames that idea relevant and how you're going to connect real great writers, I believe are great at up with that perfect one line hook thing that's Yeah. Let's get super concrete here. Clubhouse and this was the standard way to Clubhouse existential threat, number one, time like jargon, fancy words, something like that- Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I don't like it. Brainstorm, and you come in, you're like so, dot, dot, the next big thing, but I think it's going Yes. So if you compare the two, and on your YouTube, see it. The other one was written by this guy Clubhouse, went super viral. It was called Secret this. It's called Secret, but super viral. They secondary, bought a Ferrari. It was like the hit it died. So if anyone has the credibility to say the guy. The problem was, he was extremely dry, 12th grade reading level jargon like Clubhouse's Immediately felt like homework. Whereas my and the most important part was here's how I think So here's how it's going to go down is basically, rationale. So that's why I wrote it that way was, thread got like 20 million people to read it was like, I didn't say, here's the five problems of Clubhouse, first of all, fuck yeah. You're app is cool, Kanye's in your DMs, VCs are throwing the setup. That's you right now. And already you business tech Twitter writing goes. Most business intelligence contest, and I was telling a story, had written it with me trying to be the 9,000 So when you see people say that I'm I'm not going to do intelligence contest, I'm said. There's intention and there's obstacle. I'm I'm going to focus on the frame and say that my What do you think is going on there that makes Well, in the same way that comedy is great, but is great and not every piece of content I wrote that one as a story. It did great. That the screenplay, story type of thing. That worked situation. So you got to know the tools and when trying to open a door. Sometimes a key is what just force it in. The second thing is, you this a lot of times. That wasn't the first story going to get better at storytelling, be prepared. get to not cringe. But it's going to take 100. and specifically, 100 intelligent reps. So it's be like, what could I do better? Oh, my hook was on too long or I don't really have a point, maybe have been something else. And so 100 reps where do better than last time? Just one thing. That's do 100 of those, then I bet your stories will you'll learn the skill through those 100 reps. everybody asked me, how do you do YouTube good? make 100 videos and every video, do something doesn't even matter what it is. One thing better me. And he is like, two things happen. First of answer. They had no intention of actually going actually do the work, they never need to talk to They're doing great. They never come back for give someone because it's true and it saves both Yeah. What did you learn from Storyworthy? guy who's like, the 20-time storytelling champion this thing was, but whatever. If you're the of attention. He's got this book and in the I would say, it's probably worth reading the which was stakes. So he's like, every great story and obstacle, but if you don't make it clear get it, then the story's not going to have, not let's say it's the, and it doesn't have to the other thing he says is like, don't tell, don't just tell a story about this great night wants to hear about your vacation, nobody wants to. Just fundamentally, those are bad stories. I was swimming in the ocean and a shark bit me and And again, it's actually almost better if it's have stakes even if it's not a shark biting you emotion. So as long as you believe that that other story has stakes. So for example, if I'm trying to embarrassment is what's on the line, right? I'm take a hit. So as long as you believe that that's I actually tell it, when it's actually delivered. story? Story is a five-second moment of change. in you telling the story comes to this one moment, I use movies because it's easier that, most people but we've all watched the same shows and movies. The guy's a player and he is never going to she's a high-powered lawyer who's doing great in That's always the start of the story. There she thought they would get happily married. ... Love, she thought they would get happily Well, guess what the ending of the rom-com is If she was the high-powered lawyer who never love and she's going to actually quit her job as the movie's going to end. Or if he didn't want to going to be chasing her and he's going to propose So spoiler for all rom-coms ever. And it's you could do the same exercise. Watch the opening the opposite of his current lifestyle or belief he loves Christmas, or whatever. So the heart of the story is the five-second when they switched. And it's usually when they when they hit rock bottom, when they had no cornered. Whatever it is, right? In Batman, and nobody's ever made it out. I don't know if of the Batman movies. And the mentor was like, &quot;How did he do it?&quot; He's like, &quot;He didn't use the So the five-second moment of change takes off the rope. If he doesn't make because of that, makes the leap and actually Everything is based... If you don't know what's character, you don't really have a great story. a company? I'm trying to tell the story of Write &quot;Oh, we started in a garage. We had no money. you have the Obama O's. And then you houses and he is taking photos with his own these founders really believed. So how do we take The origin story of all Silicon Valley companies was the moment of change? The origin story of beginning of the rom-com, &quot;We were broke jokes. we didn't even have an idea. So we were the worst no idea, no respect, no reputation, no nothing, all designers and the narrative was, 'You got Well, the moment of change was basically, I think to pay rent or something like that. So the had a crazy idea to be like, &quot;Hey, what if we design conference in town. What if we create a bed all the hotels are sold out?&quot; &quot;Bed and breakfast. we can just put an air mattress here.&quot; And And then three people came, stayed, paid the &quot;Holy shit, this might be a thing.&quot; And right? There's like, &quot;We ran out of money again. the story about when they were getting knocked they were cloning their company and going to &quot;We faced this life or death moment, and then We went from being scared to being like, all we're going to beat them.&quot; And that's the moment. The way I've learned this is you have what's stories are the four or five stories, that if would know everything there is to know, really, you with Write of Passage, what's the origin because life was good, you already were good at you were like, &quot;I got to do something here.&quot; Yeah, give me what it is right now. this New York advertising agency, and I was super he's just not super welcoming guy. Super talented. my job, and he calls me into his office. And I was trying to be all impressive and stuff like idea that we had was going to be epic. And he was He said something to the effect of, &quot;You're not in And then through writing that sentence, need to improve your writing. You're just I tried learning to write in school. I don't even get good at this.&quot; So that was in November. I'm like, &quot;Oh my goodness, this is going to be seven months out of college, I get laid off. And because I'm not a good writer. Uh oh, I got to But then I'm seeing all these people who are good internet and stuff. So I spend years, two, I start building an audience. And during that you're pretty good at this. Can you start teaching all these things on my own. I had to figure to learn how to write.&quot; Then that led into Write Okay, great. So let's workshop that. All right, so let's go back to the origin. So your start of your rom-com, you're working in a kind of embarrasses you and you end up getting to make that part better. So I think you have to be don't like my job and my job doesn't like The second part is I'm not doing so well and I'm by my boss. Great. Super relatable, super you got specifically embarrassed around the epic and you're like, &quot;Okay, hopelessness. I'm sure you had some feelings about that. to teach people writing and I'm doing a podcast &quot;Dude, you're awesome. I'm a big fan.&quot; Okay, story. How do we actually make it better? focus on the pain enough; the attention and time. So for example, you said, &quot;I wasn't doing &quot;But then I got promoted or a raise.&quot; So I don't promotion or raise out, it doesn't really conflicting messages. Never let the truth get in So why did you not think you were doing well? what do we do with this person? I can't believe his office and he goes, &quot;I need you to stop you explain?&quot; He's like, &quot;Do your job. You are a on the future of media and where that's going.&quot; he and I never really got along that well. go back to the memory bank and you remember any going to feel at the end. At the end you feel overcome. But at the beginning you probably So for example, if you were like, &quot;I remember I was trying to welcome him and train him a little was like, 'I'm doing something wrong.'&quot; Or, a category for pros, and he had three words. And huge.&quot; A little anecdote like that, I think, will if you said, &quot;I wasn't doing so well,&quot; that it Let me just wrap everything we've spoken about got my beginning, I got my end, I want a perfect to build up to those five seconds of change. So is the moment of tension, where something pivots. then what I want to do is intention and outcome. Intention and obstacle. Thank-you. So my intention I want to be valued, I want to be respected. to be a worthy human being. And I'm in my first I have that and I'm like, my job is about being a so now I have my obstacle. So that's Right? Yeah, exactly. You nailed it. Now let's was basically some version of you were like... pretty good. The middle, you were like, &quot;So then about, well, I want to improve my writing.&quot; was a mentor that told you something, or maybe you you had a long talk with yourself on a long walk this.&quot; Right? There's probably a moment when you That's usually a very important part of every to know that, and then you want to explain that I got better and then everything was great.&quot; forwarded the montage too fast. What triggered go do? Not in long specifics, but what's the first what was maybe some resistance you felt that you storytelling? I don't know if you've seen this. The most important one. I don't know what the 22 the hero doesn't have to win. The audience loves really important to me. I was like, &quot;Oh, that's of how hard they try.&quot; And if somebody just tries very good story and you're not very... You don't tried, what resistance you felt, and then how you long thing, but you want to make it feel real. that I think anybody can do in their storytelling, into moments to explain how you felt, with ideally like, &quot;I remember he said this to me, and I'll some sentence. Or, &quot;I remember looking Tony Robbins. I'm a big Tony Robbins fan. He does &quot;I remember sitting in my apartment, I looked in the bathtub because my dishwasher And all he is trying to say is, &quot;I'm a loser. Because I'm Tony Robbins and I figured it out and that he used to be a loser. Otherwise, the whole &quot;How do I convince somebody I'm a loser? or I could say that I used to have Because that paints a picture of a loser. he says. &quot;I would sit in my apartment, and I any money, so I just had this one chair. I didn't on.&quot; And he's like, &quot;It was just a chair.&quot; He's was like...&quot; There's some song where he's like, &quot;It's only me in my chair.&quot; And he's like, &quot;Dude, And he's like, &quot;So I went for a run.&quot; And he's was overweight, I went for a run. And even you may be a loser at all things in life, but tells this story, and it's kind of inspiring when one moment that's visual, that's audio, that's state, so that the after has some impact. first, you can tell a story; a story Absolutely. saying, &quot;This happened, this happened, this It's a transformation. Story is just a change. The world is one way and I was another way. My company was failing and change. You only want to include what happened be. Yeah, it's not just a timeline of events Yeah. my writing course, I used to teach this one thing the emotion.&quot; I learned this from a guy who used him when he was 20 years old, Steve Bartlett. got a big podcast called Diary of a CEO. He's He's on Dragons Den, he's a famous guy now. I met from the UK, he lived in our office, slept in we worked together for, I don't know, nine months awesome in a bunch of ways, but he was obviously But the awesome thing I remember was he told me Jenny in her bedroom going to think when she sees about?&quot; He's like, &quot;Oh, if we're making a piece social media is Jenny in her bed, laying down, this has to make Jenny stop, think something, it's going nowhere. There was no point in writing no reaction from the person. They're just going content, we only stop at things that we have And then I heard the same idea from another Buzzfeed guy goes, &quot;Everything we do at Buzzfeed her bedroom, Debbie at her desk. What's going on world is the bored at work network.&quot; He goes... he was like, &quot;Buzzfeed basically taps into if have a distraction for five minutes, we want to and get them to forward it to a bunch of other the whole network, is the bored at network. Then I heard the idea a third time. This guy, that would make videos go viral. And at the time How do you do a viral video?&quot; I don't know. It's &quot;What's your hit rate on virality? 1 out of of 10.&quot; I go &quot;8 out of 10?&quot; And he's like, &quot;Yeah, &quot;How do you do this?&quot; And he's like, &quot;Well, you have a base of an audience.&quot; But he's like, but how viral it goes is how much they share it.&quot; an emotion.&quot; He goes, &quot;The only things people AWW.&quot; All the acronyms for all the emotions. doesn't do that, nobody will share it. So he goes, we have, then we'll write a script or write a do we think that's going to create this reaction How do we make it more funny? How do we make endearing and heartwarming?&quot; Whatever those are. okay, I get it. I need to create a reaction out their desk, and I need to start with my target the thing that will create that emotion. you're like, okay, I'm publishing this on the get a big audience. And so you think of, you're just writing to Debbie in her bedroom your content alone. And when you're writing, at one moment in time. And you have to remember you're trying to make is different. in a lot of our media environment, especially with you're on the throne, you're on the bus, you're you're like, &quot;Come on, where the heck are you? And you're just sort of browsing, browsing, And if you can really, first, understand your and then write to the person who's in that this person? And you're writing for one person, hey, 119,000 impressions. Those are not 119,000 119,000 individual people at 119,000 individual you communicate very differently. to one person at one moment in time. That's, I that this reminded me of is do you know this Yeah, yeah. she's basically an Excel influencer, for lack Excel tricks. But the reason she got popular, putting an Excel trick on the screen or a I was reading some interview with her and content? What's your process?&quot; And I was like, &quot;It's kind of weird.&quot; She's like, &quot;Most people, if 'Consistency. Wake up at a certain every day. You got to post at a certain She's like, &quot;I don't do any of that.&quot; She goes, She's like, &quot;I'm kind of woo woo woo in that way. mind. I get myself into a certain mood and a I feel charismatic, I feel energetic.&quot; And energetics.&quot; She's like, &quot;I work on my energy and much faster than if I sat down and said, 'What are And so she's like, &quot;I just work myself into that and as soon as it hits,&quot; she's like, &quot;I run She goes, &quot;Because I believe all through the phone. It's my energy shifting if I feel excited about this insight that I have get you excited about that tip too. And the best And I think this is a very underrated they're not performers. All performers know this. up and being hyped up. No stage performer goes But almost every writer starts cold and low And there's even some weird glory from this, I need to be as a writer. I think that's all stupid. other way. I think you should get yourself into and then sit down and write and let it flow and person who reads it is going to feel the same the same excitement you have about this plan or And a lot of times when people write, they they're at the bar with their friends, they're a Thanksgiving dinner. They're like, &quot;Man, the world. That woman was crazy.&quot; And you're so try to write three days later. And the problem Excel is capturing before she does the videos. And their writing ends up being boring and sterile. podcast where it was like, &quot;I look for things don't practice, overlook, or be too embarrassed to of them, of one of those. Nobody wants to work on like, &quot;I'm going to make myself magnetic That's pretty cool. I don't even know what that okay, it is better than whatever the hell I'm a new standard for me. I'm going to do that. in their heart, believe that this is true, did the thing, it'll probably turn out better. it's the arbitrage. It's a less talented Wait, hold on here, stop the podcast. So write? How does this actually work? jumping jacks? What do I actually do? state change is three things. Number one, radical you can do pushups, you can dance, you can do water. Whatever it is. It's the fastest way in your physiology. It's the first thing. I have a friend who's a professional poker &quot;Poker players are notoriously degenerates. You're the worst air pumped-in environment. There's no day. People are smoking, it's bad.&quot; He's like a goes in the parking lot and he does wind sprints. doing it to increase his V02 max. He's doing it he gets back to the table. He knows he makes that's part of his edge. That's why he's been a years. So first thing is a change in your state. what are you even focused on? The way I imagine is this is true, but it's what I've convinced myself, I will crush this. This will be amazing. If I put this podcast didn't stand a chance. And the only And if I'm trying to point it in five different This also works with if you have to write focus is on the deadline, it's the wrong place is for you to do something, if you're focused focus. You need to focus on the thing you want. to crash, it's a focus on where you're turning. what's the story you tell yourself? We all have improve the story, you'll change the state of mind now, and my story is I'm doing a favor to David, hour to come here, and this means I'm not going to wrong story. Obviously I'm not going to perform Whereas if my story was, there's going to be who's listening to this podcast, and they're and they're going to be like, &quot;Wow, I can't unhear to go and do amazing things. So they're going that podcast you did, changed my life.&quot; I'm going words will come out of my mouth if my story about if you want to basically change your state, Nice. One of the moments I had around story worked with a coach and we were talking about my What's a writing slump? What does that mean? and I just wasn't proud of the stuff that I was &quot;Well, what is it that you want?&quot; And I these long form pieces that I was really proud force. I want to be a creative force. That's what 'I want to be a creative force. That's what I'm hold on. Stop the train. You said you used to be What did you do back then that you don't do now?&quot; I'd find an idea that was interesting, I would I'd figure it out for myself and I'd say, 'Well, I'd just do that over and over and over again, and I focused on.&quot; He's like, &quot;Hold on. What you're force, that's your story. That's not working for idea, not judging the interestingness, figuring Judging the interestingness, figuring it out for since that, no more slump. All that was was a change in my story. the other part of what you said there, which sounds very simple. But all great ideas are I think there's a profound benefit of &quot;Am I doing those?&quot; I don't look for new ideas that I haven't fully actualized yet, and that's Great Work. I'm assuming you've read that one. I read it two nights ago. For the first time. He wrote it a year ago, and it too long.&quot; Well, when the student is ready, What do I want to work on right now? How do I in that he has this great line, and he goes, &quot;If it would be curiosity.&quot; And he says another excitement.&quot; And he goes, &quot;And excitement, He goes, &quot;Excitement is the engine and the rudder is motivating. It's a driver to get you to go can point you in the right direction. If you the one that's most exciting. Just keep following Excitement is the engine and the rudder I think drifted away from that like you did, I start with now ambition is the driver.&quot; Or doing or money is the driver. And then all the bad these working?&quot; And it's like, well, because was leading to all these great things because So many people are like, &quot;Oh, I hate writing.&quot; writing with doing things that they don't want it's time to write,&quot; they subconsciously that they're the most curious about or That's not what you get to do, yeah, maybe one or two things, but people just aren't that I need to reconcile with you and try to and we need to figure out how they come together, head, you're dead. Love that line. So good. At things. You find something that you like, and Let me try to break it down. Okay, I'm actually expert, try to figure out what's going on. thinking, being fairly analytical, but at Those things feel like polar opposites to me. this mini book online that was called, I think Ideas. It's some old book. And in it it said you can have sound like opposites if you pair them who is both visionary and detail-oriented.&quot; is famous for being a visionary. He doesn't ask horses. They want a car actually, that's how he But he's insanely detail-oriented, where he's And they're like, &quot;Dude, Steve, nobody's going at this. I will know what's inside the box. It pixel level detail. Same thing for all things. I analytical with data. Sounds like opposites. And if paired together, creates a one plus And they're often presented as false choices. this type of person. Screw that. Be the type of both gears and knowing when to go into which I need to be analytical? When do I need to be hard playful dad? Paint my nails, whatever. I have Similarly, you want to be in your head at the is a valuable tool, it just cannot be the master. maybe it's analysis, maybe it's, oh, I'm feeling &quot;Is this fear even true? And what's the how would I handle it? I guess I would just So usually if the problem is emotion, you can you can solve it with logic. And so I try to use you're dead is basically more of a life philosophy go around life not feeling a whole lot and their head about stuff, they're missing life. And Have you ever seen that advice from Ray Bradbury, seen this? So I've heard that, what you said here, &quot;I have a sign on my typewriter, it that's interesting.&quot; He's like, &quot;I'm trying to way to surprise myself is once I'm in my head I a first draft is like this. You're trying to get that condemns, that says, &quot;No, no, no, it's not And that you're doing it well when where did that come from? Where did that come question is, how do you engineer yourself to can't do it. That for me is where I do for me was voice transcription getting really Talk and walk. blah, blah, blah. Half of Austin definitely thinks But you know what? It's made my writing better. &quot;How do you just bang out first drafts so fast?&quot; everybody else does. I just go for a walk.&quot; you need to figure out a way to engineer that for everybody's got a different version of how to do You're talking about Ray Bradbury, don't think. tool. So when you're stuck, there's many ways like I said, radical change and something tactic. Music is a good way to get unstuck too. unstuck is if you're stuck in the specifics, go of the how something is going to happen, it's not just keep trying to do this, you can just super general, what am I trying to do here? had all the superpowers in the world, well, how &quot;Who's somebody who's done this before?&quot; Or super thing I want to write. What inspires me?&quot; to general. So don't think is hard, because it's hard to redirect the brain. And so redirecting it towards, &quot;Hey, I'm going to go rock climbing, off of it.&quot; It can also be, &quot;I'm stuck in the muck Or if I'm stuck in the general, so for example, want to be in life? And what do I want to do, what's the best idea you heard in the last two what would it be? Or what's the most interesting you're stuck in the general. So it's a very know if you're stuck in the specifics, go go specific. And you'll redirect the brain. You're really good at putting your voice specific that I'm not sure how consciously inside the head of a reader to understand, at the moment? And basically you said it earlier, building trust and connection. And then it having a conversation that, my goodness, that is Have you ever read The Boron Letters? Okay, so this is must read. Copywriting. I'm surprised you don't they're that good. So The Boron letters are Gary Halbert, I think, writing to his son. And and he is writing to his son, Bond, I think is and they're hard to find too, it's really them on my blog now, because I was like, &quot;This is So anyways, he wrote these letters. And he &quot;I'm writing to my son.&quot; But obviously these were marketing, and he's teaching, he's trying to teach wrote it with such a casual, warm relationship, he's writing to his son. And because he's dear Bond, is where things get interesting.&quot; dad, why do you say this? We're going to get just started writing so differently that I was swag to it that is just appealing to me.&quot; So I &quot;Oh, I'm going to write like that. I'm going to one person is my little young grasshopper. It's or it's me when I was younger.&quot; It's blah, blah, but mamma mia, you're wrong.&quot; interesting as if it's written to one person that &quot;I want to be the sensei.&quot; And that's how I teacher relationship. And other times it's the other people are more knowledgeable about this. &quot;So being the idiot that I am, I decided I there was probably a better way to do this. you're probably staring at us right now the answer is blah, blah, blah.&quot; because I'm just trying to make it where I'm at this? What would I think if I was them? And it's very frustrating to me when, imagine if &quot;How did you do it?&quot; And they're like, &quot;I just did that podcast host doesn't ask them like, &quot;Wait, &quot;What do you mean he gave you a million It's the most frustrating experience in the world try to do that too. I try to just call out the skeptical of, or I would be excited about in that One of the things that we talk about all the time is imitate and then innovate. And it's exactly and you said, &quot;Okay, have you ever heard of this And then what you did was you deconstructed found a general principle of his work. So you he's writing to his son. And then the implications And the roadmap that you took to give me that about writing, where you start somewhere, you up in my own world?&quot; And then you try to build up for your toolkit whenever you're typing yourself. thing for anybody to try to do. If you want By the way, I randomly just thought of the best were talking, which is how the brain works. The Have you seen the Dave Chappelle thing called No. remember a while back Dave Chappelle was in a feud Show was put on Netflix and he wasn't getting it's all his life's work. And not only was he not with the creators of the Chappelle Show where was they offered him $50 million. He said no, and That was the rumors. Dave Chappelle's a crackhead &quot;No, I just said no. Why did I have home. What are you talking about?&quot; His objective was he wanted people to boycott the If you want to drive people to take action, you them through the written word. Or in his case, he And what he did was instead of talking about &quot;Go boycott my show, please.&quot; He reframed that I thought was brilliant. He just changed the &quot;I remember I was 14 years old. The first time this comedy club and I tell this joke.&quot; And he's away. Comedy came naturally to me. I'm not one He's like, &quot;Honestly, I was good and I was 14, underage but I was good.&quot; And he's like, &quot;I came for 20 years. And they were like, Hey kid, you did &quot;One guy came to me and was like, Hey man, I like this TV show or something for this other thing, &quot;Even as a kid, I'm 15. This guy's He's like, &quot;I didn't want to do it, because I All I have as a comedian is my jokes.&quot; I felt uncomfortable. He said he just needed it Sure you could use the joke for the audition.&quot; &quot;Several months later I go to the club. I'm tells my joke, and the joke kills you.&quot; He's know what to do.&quot; He's like, &quot;Afterwards, I went basically is framing it as I'm this powerless And he goes, I told him, I was like, &quot;Hey for that thing. I want my joke back.&quot; And I or something like that. And the guy roughed him asking to be nice. You know I could just take what to do, and I let that guy take my joke.&quot; story.&quot; He tells a story about later on he's with this Jamaican girl.&quot; He's like, &quot;She's a fine but I didn't have any money. I'm still a 24,&quot; something like that. He's like, &quot;And I walk three-card, that game.&quot; And I'm watching it, and around. I know it's over here. He guesses the Next thing I go, same thing. Puts down 20 bucks. he loses. I'm like, &quot;God, I could do this.&quot; So &quot;I'm going to double this. I'll take my girl out &quot;That one.&quot; Balls over there. He's like, &quot;What the lost a hundred bucks. I had this date tonight.&quot; and I realized those tourists, they didn't leave. He's like, &quot;Oh, they hustled me. Those guys are where it was, and I was the mark who came up and then somebody else came up and they were &quot;Don't do it. They're all in on it.&quot; he leaves. And he's like, the guy roughs him &quot;I don't care what you think.&quot; He's like, &quot;Never &quot;You just took money out of my pocket. This away a man's livelihood is the equivalent of Then they finally gets to the Netflix story and before. He's like, &quot;They didn't ask me if they basically, they didn't ask for anything. They content. They just took it.&quot; He's like, &quot;And well, you signed the contract, Dave.&quot; hired lawyers to read these contracts. They use this forever in perpetuity in all parts of the don't worry about it. This is standard Hollywood signed it. Later on I realized those guys all go their side, they're all in on it. This is just was the mark. So yeah, I signed it,&quot; but whatever. making this argument, by using these two stories. a written story that I have ever seen. &quot;I will delete Netflix if they don't take the show that video on YouTube, it went super viral because They took it off. And Netflix said, &quot;We don't do this. We were also moved by your story. We're say we can do it. Even though contractually we're going to honor the non-contract here.&quot; not like, &quot;Oh, I'm getting screwed. &quot;You're getting picked on by the man. You're And I thought that was absolutely brilliant. I want to talk about distribution. So one Write of Passage is what I want to figure out people who don't write all the time, don't really really good. Like say that you are an absolute waters from the little town in Italy. Where all that sort of stuff. And you are like, &quot;This going to tell the story of how it begins in a You have this expert, he / she never it's awesome. And I want to help them distribute How should I talk them through that? I don't think that's something you can do from earlier. If you're going to write online, there is create a trusted audience over time, and you have distribution is so valuable, because it's hard to say this thing. He goes, &quot;Oh, I have the 1, 2, He goes, &quot;Tell me one thing that's interesting. Sanpellegrino, I'll say, that's interesting.&quot; be like, &quot;Those were interesting.&quot; That's two things, I'll say, &quot;You're interesting.&quot; And think you should have with writing, is you don't you... And three is a small number, really You might have to tell somebody 20 &quot;This guy's interesting. I can't wait to get his have to consistently be telling somebody something channel between them, where they're now going to to vouch for you and spread you to another person, because you are interesting and you consistently people think you're interesting, it's even more and just says, &quot;Oh, everybody thinks this guy's more Twitter followers you get, the more you're get mad about that, like the rich get richer. mental shortcut. The people who have earned a some exceptions, but it is a useful hack versus I out who I want to follow. That's the slow way, people follow. That is it sounds just like, &quot;Oh, group think or whatever,&quot; but there's a reason it it too, which is it saves you a lot of time So I would say to that person it's cool. That's one interesting thing. Let's your friends and family. Start with some group wheel a little bit. Send it to some people who with a personalized message of why you think they have to do some of that hustle at the beginning have some expectations that just because you said everywhere. This is not really how it works. audience without writing that many things, absolutely cranked. What do you think that you there that other people are missing? worked on Twitter, so basically I remember I was But I was like, I'm going to get to 100. Now I'm 400,000 followers.&quot; I say the generic best your niche is and then talk about stuff in that defy that, but I don't think that's what helped. I think if I had been more consistent and I followers instead of 400,000. So let me put that practices, I don't think the right takeaway is it would've been even bigger had I followed those. everybody's attention was on a certain subject, so much as it is a thinking. I am sure. I but I'm sure one of the most common themes is writing is just clear thinking. Writing helps write better. They are so tightly intertwined that an interesting thought to say, and I said it at to that subject. And then thirdly, I wrote it of it. I wrote some thread about the metaverse because of how I wrote it. I think it's because I remember at the time, Facebook had just podcast. And it was like, &quot;Yeah, I read this blah.&quot; It's like he wasn't saying it because or my hook. He read it because he thought the And I think that's more what to strive for having unique and interesting things to say, being You can't do only one and not the other, or If you just have interesting things to very far. If you have great packaging, very fatigued of it. It doesn't really work. is as a measure when I read their stuff is how with their readers? So some writers, let's take informative. You learn a lot, but you're connection. Same thing with Wikipedia. And then something that you're very intentional about, and there is a real connection that is built. on that because of your goals as a creator. so that it's not going to be just this one and of Shaan. Like, &quot;I like this guy, want to consume his stuff every single day.&quot; mean by that? You mean trust? Do you I think what I mean is an So I did the lamest thing ever once. I hired a I pay this guy five grand. you're not even being serious. going to be serious. It's such a cliche. am aware how lame it was. And it's not my image,&quot; or whatever. But I was like, &quot;Well, am kind of a individual brand.&quot; &quot;Okay, so what...&quot; And this person so I was like, &quot;All right, let's do this.&quot; that is super important that people- that other people either overlook, or Totally. Right, right. we talk. And I'm like, &quot;Okay.&quot; I learned a bunch was he goes, &quot;People will follow you to the ends they can't get anywhere else, more consistently So what does that mean? He basically was like, and your only SKU... You're a merchant.&quot; &quot;Your only SKU is basically how somebody So for example, I used to love TED Talks. They were so good. 2014 they had- Phenomenal. before that. I was in college when they were cool. music of the whoosh out of a TED Talk or the intro training. Like Pavlovian training of like, you're and you're going to walk away feeling inspired, either go do something. Inspired that the world is whatever. And TED is a merchant of inspiration. that's right. I listen to these comedy podcasts. out with my friends, my funny friends, comedians that hang out. But that's why I think consistently give somebody the feeling of without you ever having to actually be funny, you're getting that without the cost. Amazing. Twitch. People watch Twitch. People watch other feeling of playing a video game without having to get good at the game and play the game. You win just by watching. It's kind of amazing. okay. This guy's right. What I got to do is pick to deliver. All I got to focus on is delivering going to give it to them. If I do that, all my the big takeaway. That was the lesson I had there. about it, that's the underlying thing that to deliver? What's that feeling? And then I do that? What's a story I could tell? What's I could give them that would do that for them? seems like your thing is that you're really good seem like somebody who's like an eighth revision, guy with editing. You seem like you're pretty what is the emotion I want to have? I would guess for a few hours, maybe go a walk, come back, together emotion, editing. How do you edit for the Okay, first thing I learned was from Sam Parr as which is the walkaway. So you do the shitty was important and the mistake I used to make is do that. So you first do your research and your to walk away. So you read it. Well, the last thing forget about it. So I then will go do stuff. So I go for a walk and I'm not trying to think about it know it sucks today. I'm going to go, I'm going of that, but I don't consciously think about it. hours, six hours, eight hours, 24 hours later. And &quot;Oh, this is bad, bad, change this. Oh, &quot;I wanted it to have this takeaway. I don't think punch that up?&quot; I wouldn't have wrote this if you that because I was very intentional upfront And the analogy I'll use is like imagine a river's think a lot of people are like, there's nothing you could tell yourself is it's a river. The water going to love this. They want to consume this and rocks in the river that are blocking the flow. the water will flow. It was a more empowering thing for me versus like, good. It's like no. I kind of assume if I got to good in it. I just got to remove the suck out of &quot;All movies we make start with suck, and our only So they do another revision, say what sucks character's not that likable because blah, blah, back again. That's kind of the same mindset. I'll say, is this doing what I want? Do I think And if not, what are the rocks I can remove? part's boring. This intro doesn't really hint at so yeah, that's it. That's the idea. I don't find that area and I'll just try to fix that. learned about writing with humor? Are you That's where I'm looking now. I'm starting to pay what I've learned so far as a white belt in the entree. So some people are writing something to that's not me. Usually it's I'm trying to get along the way, which will make this more enjoyable but it's not the meat. It's not the protein of the oh, does apply a little bit here. part is all humor is just surprise. So every see the punch line coming, it's not very funny. in a way where you don't anticipate this is what thought I was going to say and what I actually have to look for those moments where you set up an Jerry Seinfeld article in the New York Times, to come in clutch and it just came in handy. Manhattan in the hot summer of 1976, there was no dog crap. I signed the rental agreement, stepped I still thought this is the greatest Yeah, exactly. What's going on there? And I think that maybe we how certain words have a much higher propensity to no law around cleaning up your dog's excrement. Exactly. sort of takes you into this other time period my car had been towed. And you're like, oh you said surprise which is why I thought about this is the greatest place I've ever been in my Theo Vaughn is super- He's super popular right now. And he's been great. I followed him since listen to him talk, his brain just does something That was my initial story, but I was like, I bet Because what Theo does, if you've never seen you've seen him, this will make all the sense basically improvise. He has no idea what he's language or he'll make up a story that is totally a deadpan face when he is doing it. You can practicing is obviously the best way to do it. up language. Coming up with words, things how do you go about doing that? It's a One of the things that I did is I like the a piece about how I fell in love with the Bible. in it because it's the Bible. It activates a part Behave. The bible should actually just say, Exactly. So it activates that. I was like, I okay, what is the emotional state that somebody's you think of almost like this fancy library. at a Schlotzky's parking lot in a strip ball juxtaposition. I'm not sure it was that funny, but And I always try to think of if I'm trying to be state that the reader's in for most of this piece? a little bit of Tabasco sauce of the opposite. exercise you can do is, so like a Theo Vaugh let's say it's the Bible. So it's the Bible. does is he'll call the Bible something else that Jesus' binder.&quot; And it's the Bible, but now one. And he's like, &quot;The old Himalayan diary.&quot; And coming up with different ways to say the Bible. book.&quot; And he'll just keep going. And I've never could just take anything and be like, I'm going And it's so hard to do. Just now when I was doing trying to do this live on a podcast? But that's brain in a very different way of thinking than common traits uncommonly together is very, very nor do you need to be the smartest. If you're like the best. So my whole strategy I know I'm not funny enough to be a comedian, but smarter than the average guy. So it's pretty Well, it's funny because I was at church last after the service she was like, &quot;Man, that &quot;Well, what do you like about the pastor?&quot; of talking about very serious sort of weighty he was talking about, he could have said, good moral values and integrity. And bad people righteousness and stuff like that. And you're &quot;At any moment, you can either be a cockroach and you go into the pantry sometimes and there's step on those things, but those things fly start eating your Ritz crackers. I swear those pick up the babies and they'll take them to they run away from the light. And then you have And then he weaves these cockroaches and the moths this chuckle. But then through the chuckle, it's somehow it's in the juxtaposition of those two the humor lowers your defenses on needing to be a okay, we can have some fun here. But then the That's framing. He framed it differently. Same more accessible, more fun, more entertaining, underrated. What's the point of having the good a responsibility if you actually is to take the time and effort to package it in My buddy Trevor, who was my roommate in one thing. He basically reads white papers, which read the abstract, read the whole study, whatever. working on this thing and then they package it because that's like- That's high status for them. It's like it's so their life to this would possibly read this. to the real world until somebody comes in and He would go learn something. He'd read this and been doing this for 50 years and the number is like 35. And then my buddy started writing a he built 100,000 person email list about a really how it applies into the classrooms and stuff of frame. He's like, &quot;Imagine two tigers. One to third-graders, or he'll teach it to the basically. He does the same speech, both of them He's like, &quot;A tiger that grows up in the zoo. Do they fight for their own food or is it cool. Jungle tiger. Jungle, tiger's life hard, for their own food. They know how to survive, you put it in the zoo, what happens?&quot; like if you take a zoo tiger, you put it in It doesn't know how to survive. And he's basically you do that? Well, you have to get out of your and handed to you. And so when you reach those say to yourself, this is my jungle tiger moment. have to put myself out of my comfort zone to do set of principles that were all previously One of the things that I am noticing from you. is my writing process going to change? And one of to learn from writers at all. What I'm going to do to be more deliberate about finding communicators they doing? And then bring that into my writing. fluidity between mediums, that talking, writing, of play together and they're sort of paint the black paint, the blue paint, the green paint. then you can get all these different colors. writing as all these separate lanes. Actually want to learn to make yourself a better writer, that might be in a totally far off field. synthesized it very, very well. I do think choose from adjacent fields because you're going looking in your own lane. It's why everything same things. We all study the same things. he said the same thing. I was like, &quot;What YouTube watch YouTube that much anymore.&quot; I'm like, you're eat and breathe YouTube. He's like, &quot;Yeah, do you learn from?&quot; He's like, well, right now we development. So we study TV shows and movies that And then he's trying to steal from other areas. on YouTube looking at other YouTubers, you'll I think that's a useful tip for people to take on. Milk Road and you had to train another writer learning to write is actually teachable. So what were some of the things that you focused on? to send the email out every morning at 6:00 AM. with consistency anyways. I don't wake up that that I will hate doing by day 30. going to write this, but it's going to be in my who's never written before. And I sat him down and you write this. And I was the editor, I cool, now you're the editor. Now you've got to before in any professional capacity or even But I taught him. One thing that helped as the like 10 different formats. It was one format. write it line by line. Our opening line at Milk Road.&quot; And we would say what we do, and then &quot;We are the number one source for figuring out like a toaster strudel, a fresh, tasty, treat we'd tag the joke again. And we would just be anyways? Kids these days, they're missing out.&quot; we're the Milk Road. We give you exactly in the morning and nothing that you don't need to something like, &quot;Reading this newsletter is the of course is when you're in a car, you roll dolphin thing with your hand.&quot; Some relatable, Awesome. get you to smile? And can we get you to be like, I this that's not based on the Bitcoin price was training him. I was like, this first line, this is 10 examples of doing it good. And then he was The other thing that we did was he was doing he had to be a different guy. Like, &quot;Oh, or I need to do ...&quot; People think when they themselves. The whole point of writing is to try to create this fake thing that you think other And so for example, he would talk about but the subject was boring. So I was like, &quot;I don't know. I felt like it was in the news. &quot;Did you care about this?&quot; &quot;No, not really.&quot; or Slack messaged me or send me a voice note being awesome. Or this is crazy. Did you hear about &quot;No, I would never say that.&quot; I'm like, people about this if you wouldn't tell me?&quot; morning I want you to send a voice memo. Send a write anything. Just be like, &quot;Oh yeah, everybody about this thing that happened. Or the price is up And what that means is that if that happened, it to me. And it was such a good filter because me something that was boring and he would catch It's boring to me and it would be boring to So those are the two big things was showing him &quot;Here's what good looks like. Here's 10 more that one step of like, don't do that imposter you're not even that interested in because guess filter for that was send me a voice memo. If it's not going to be interesting in long text. is so funny? It is hilarious. that's funny. It's just funny that we put, writing this? Everybody says we're the best. We So your immediately like, what's first best? to say an unserious thing. So I'm like, the all know this feeling is great. You know And so we just knew, okay, things like that them in one line. So it's not like you have to It was very efficient as a mechanism there. Yeah, absolutely. Thanks for having me.