CNBC's Jane Wells live in Los Angeles with how the 360's problems This all came together Some faulty Xbox 360s are literally It was a slow rolling thing, like, really It started to really be concerning I had a sick feeling in my stomach. REPORTER: but users say the console's cooling system just can't take the heat of a lot of play. We were just having failure after failure. The problem was huge. Mine just crashed this holiday season. Get one back, No! Again! ALBERT PENELLO: and we're getting two Whether they were friends, whether they were people on the street. It didn't matter. I was mad as [BLEEP]. Then it became the media saying that has been rushed to market, we're seeing unprecedented failure rates. It's broken. Everything that I had worked for REPORTER: There's a new contender ROBBIE BACH: Xbox is going to be.... -The future. -MALE REPORTER: Xbox. J.: Limitless, connected You guys never understood! REPORTER: The company is going GAMER: Sniper. Nooo! N'GAI CROAL: It's a ticking time bomb. It makes me very nervous FEMALE REPORTER: A bold vision for the figure of gaming. It's the Xbooooooox! [DRAMATIC MUSIC] [STATIC AND TYPING] ALBERT PENELLO: of the original Xbox was that it survived. Looking at the history you would have given them so the achievement is that And, internally, it's fun to laugh You'll see Xbox will actually start up. ALBERT PENELLO: Like we can laugh that the Xbox didn't turn on We can bring that video up? But with Xbox 360, honestly, nobody laughs at the red rings. PETER MOORE: you've gotta go back to the beginning and all of the work we did on the Xbox 360 We were absolutely focused We needed to be seen The 360 was five to ten times And so, to achieve we had to push technology and solutions that didn't exist TODD HOLMDAHL: This was an incredibly The circuit board itself is, And we were building these chips We did our own internal design LEO DEL CASTILLO: with software that isn't quite done yet, on new test systems And that had a domino effect The design was coming together We were launching in November of 2005 from the CPU until February of 2005. That's just ridiculous. DREW ANGELOFF: That is an absurdly short timeframe. The normal timeframe And so we're faced and ramping up production lines LAURA FRYER: so everybody had it at the same time. But that's a big challenge to have enough units to restock in retail, so that the countries you do launch in We need to get our yields up. And so, we're cranking up production. At the highest manufacturing output, would come off the line [MACHINERY WORKING] LEO DEL CASTILLO: But, as we're ramping of these issues that were coming up. Lots of inconsistencies. Consoles would fail at test stations. TODD HOLMDAHL: only 50 or 60 of them would work, Like a real robust yield rate LEO DEL CASTILLO: This was the fog of war and that was, is there something wrong with the design of the product, Because we were trying there wasn't much time to think about it One way of dealing was to put them into these nice boxes so that you would get back to them In a way we were kicking the can LEO DEL CASTILLO: We were developing At the height, we created a bone pile that And so it's, it's just like where the chocolates And they're coming off so fast That's exactly what was going on. [LAUGHTER] The thing about building consoles is Christmas doesn't change, and there's just so much pressure NARRATOR: and months of intense troubleshooting, engineers finally managed to solve the As consoles started to pass QC, to chip away at the bone pile, which, at the time HOST: Good evening, everyone! So who here is ready for Xbox 360? [CROWD CHEERING] I'm outside the Best Buy in Midtown. It's raining here in New York They've been out here in the rain and they're not leaving Finally! When the Xbox 360 launched there was The Xbox 360 finally got out Microsoft had their fingers firmly and they clearly had a vision We got in with something A gorgeous design, It really felt like in some ways PETER MOORE: This new world of online. This new world of social engagement. This new world of building communities. Ohayou gozaimasu! We at Microsoft LEO DEL CASTILLO: We were selling every single unit GEOFF KEIGHLEY: I know there are a lot of there's a shortage out there, you know, or can you not produce enough? -What's the real story on that? twenty-four hours a day, LEO DEL CASTILLO: Ultimately, we got And we just needed to be able to catch up. NARRATOR: By hitting the market Xbox 360 had a head start But Sony was still And they had every intention It was the year after we shipped, PETER MOORE: We were paranoid. LARRY HRYB: Sony had such credibility from the PlayStation 1 so they were riding on this tidal wave Coming off the PlayStation 2, The most successful platform and really just needed In contrast to that, you just witnessed Microsoft coming to market a year before you're able so you know you're facing PlayStation 3 is the best-of-breed GEOFF KEIGHLEY: as a premium product from the get-go. This was going to play games, so it was seen more as kind We knew they were going The next generation And they would price their console because they felt ALBERT PENELLO: and a bunch of us were huddled like a 15-inch laptop screen, And then they dropped the price. In North America, the PlayStation 3 will be available at retail Wait a minute. Did... $599? [CRASHING] [YELLING AND EXPLOSION] $599. Nobody was prepared for that. Back then, consoles didn't launch It was like, holy cow, We were high-fiving each other, There were just all these ways that Sony KEVIN PEREIRA: Sony said it would be a to afford their overly-priced console. JACK TRETTON: that's gonna be incredibly And that opened a window for Microsoft to be able to soft of say, that's gonna play We've got better online, for cheaper.&quot; Thank you very much, Becoming CEO right after the launch being made captain of the Titanic, [MONSTER ROARS] [APPLAUSE] After Sony's announcement, we could not Couldn't be more excited to be here because we're delivering right here and right now, with titles We had a lot of PlayStation fans, who were coming to Xbox, we had the best system, We led in every key aspect. With the help of our incredible partners, we're delivering With a high-definition gaming experience more powerful Yeah. We were riding high, I'd say the morale was extremely high. We had so much pride in this product. Everything was great. And then, the storm hit. NARRATOR: Before launch, to fix 360's early technical issues. But, by June 2006, there were reports of an entirely new, Distress calls flooded into Redmond. Something had gone terribly wrong. It was in the forums and I started There was a lot of chatter -GAMER 1: Dude. GAMER 1: Your Xbox. You might want to take a look at it. -GAMER 2: Oh, [BLEEP]! AARON GREENBERG: Over time, we kept We'd go to a launch event for a game then they would all start &quot;Before we can talk about new features, But we had no sense We didn't even know how to deal with it, Microsoft have been in the news but it seems the last big product GAMER: That's the first time I've seen Mother [BLEEP]! KEVIN PEREIRA: where there were four green lights DREW ANGELOFF: Each of those lights and so that's how you knew We also used the ring to tell people It's like LEO DEL CASTILLO: And this is And this was an indicator of, ALBERT PENELLO: The error state was just so the machine was just basically LEO DEL CASTILLO: This would show up as which would come to be known It's the red ring of death. Red ring of death. [SCREAMING] I got red ringed. Uh, everybody got red ringed. What the [BLEEP]? When that mother [BLEEP] red thing come up and then the whole game freeze be like, We can't play. What's going on? It was, it, oh my God. It was terrible. No! Red ring of death! Again! We have no Xbox. I'm calling support. KEVIN PEREIRA: They let you know You wait on hold a little bit longer &quot;Okay, we're going to get you a It doesn't show up for a week. All the enthusiasm's gone, and then here's Wow. GAMER: This is the fourth [BLEEP] Xbox. [BLEEP] Microsoft. Effectively, It just became an epidemic. It was the Red Ring of Death! Console's hotter It was the Red Ring of Death! No fricking way! And I'm so pissed off! Calling Microsoft! I'm on hold! [SCREAMING] It was the Red Ring of Death! SNOOP DOGG: I was mad as [BLEEP]. I'm like, get this [BLEEP] fixed I'm joining the enemy. It was simple as that. It's a faulty piece of manufacturing GAMER: I feel kind of sorry for it. Not really. It deserved it. It's a big deal because, that gamers have for their hobby, from your console BONNIE ROSS: We felt the customer's pain. I had three boxes replaced, And it does make you think, is not a pleasant experience, KEVIN PEREIRA: Microsoft's going to ship and that's what gamers &quot;Did your cardboard coffin arrive?&quot; GAMER: I finally got my coffin. But hopefully I'll get him back. And you'd put your 360 in it DREW ANGELOFF: I remember going out and looking in the back of the UPS truck and seeing wall-to-wall, N'GAI CROAL: The fact that it was and Microsoft was shipping That just combined to this feeling, are you guys really taking this seriously? They're continuing to sell so a consumer could walk buy a 360, take it home, [OMINOUS MUSIC] Is there any speculation out there Um, there is a lot of speculation but, there are 500 million transistors -Mm-hmm. AARON GREENBERG: or new system updates, I would be out, meeting with the top games journalists, and I'm trying to sell them on the future and they're like, &quot;Dude my console's For those who have experienced the flashing red lights, That's kind of part of the problem about the specific causes, they won't say exactly why. We didn't have PETER MOORE: Do we have a heat problem? Is the solder in, is it cracking up and drying out We just couldn't figure it out. TODD HOLMDAHL: It's a long process. You had to test it at the board level, and then you had to test it almost a million of them ALBERT PENELLO: We'd send it back out to the customer. And it turns out that wasn't the problem, And I'm saying, HARJIT SINGH: After the third I remember thinking, When we got to a point where we said we made the call to shut down production. KAREN LEONARD: We wanted to figure out how to solve it before we built any more units It stretched every bit of our imaginations exactly what was going on This went on for months. These were the darkest days of my career. KAREN LEONARD: Are people going to now go Are they going to leave us as a brand? Every day you weren't gaming You trusted us and you'd invested Not gonna work. This was an incredibly, You know, people use phrases like you Having gone through it, I can It's a thing. It isn't just a phrase. Todd had to manage the very complex Until we knew what was going on. 2006, 2007, I dedicated a lot of my life LEO DEL CASTILLO: The breakthrough came that were being broken but they were actually located The problem was, The reason it was breaking was thermal, but it wasn't because It was because when the unit would get hot every time it did that, All these people loved playing video games and so they would turn and when it would turn on and off, LEO DEL CASTILLO: And just like when you, until it finally breaks, Once we figured it out, Peter Moore and the executive team about trying to fix this with all these This was something they needed to do not just something, If we're going to save this brand, consumer-service reaction to this. The credibility of the whole platform There was only one way to do this for every customer at no cost, I think we're off to a good start. TIM STUART: And I remember sitting at a just some simple math on repair rates, times an amount equals a number, And I remember feeling in my stomach, this is gonna be By the time we looked the lost sales that we factored in, Peter had to go to Steve Ballmer I need a billion dollars I'm expecting to be ripped to shreds. Come on! TINA SUMMERFORD: If Steve Ballmer does not give Peter Moore Like, there's probably To the credit of Steve, and I can still He said, &quot;Do it. Just do it. We'll figure it all out. Microsoft to repair serious hardware failures Over 200 million of this overnight shipping around the world. N'GAI CROAL: and putting their money It was one of the times when I've been because, we made a mistake, we owned it, Without that money spent, there's probably no Xbox right now. We bet on our fans Take that hit once, do it right. Don't ever regret it. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] MIKE MIKA: When the 360 died on me, but I wasn't pissed at Microsoft. I just really wanted to get the 360 again and start playing again It was frustrating but they had hooked us. So when you hook somebody, you know, They're gonna work with you That was a good sign that people loved NARRATOR: may not have been enough, A library of celebrated game titles. And support from game developers who loved how easy it was and saw in it the potential to take gaming [SLOW PIANO MUSIC] ROD FERGUSSON: Gears of War, at the time, And it became this poster child [WISTFUL MUSIC PLAYING] Like, this is a game that people and go &quot;Oh my God, I can't believe the 360 compare it to PS3, because this game looks ROD FERGUSSON: It sold like a million units and that really propelled Gears of War may just be the great hope ROD FERGUSSON: for Microsoft, an M-rated game Everyone loved the signature weapon, Gears of War was about appealing The people that play Gears, People get tattoos they have with the franchise and the game, it's unlike any other SOLDIER: That was satisfying. PETER MOORE: And all of a sudden you see this tide turn of every publisher [CAR MOTORS ROARING] AARON GREENBERG: We had secured we published titles like Mass Effect. LARRY HRYB: We had Splinter Cell We really had this incredible portfolio AARON GREENBERG: Call of Duty was a it was a PC franchise, Call of Duty on the console in a big way. PETER MOORE: It was all about frame rate, Forza was built as a direct We're gonna go off and we're gonna build DAN DUNCALF: You had cars that had amazing They had reflections of other things. You had particle effects. You had a lot of things that just made it MIKE MIKA: To this day my son can because he played so much Forza. GUY WELCH: If you look at Xbox 360, that was a moment It was just an incredible run that has ever been topped And then, you know, NARRATOR: It had been 3 years since Halo 2 smashed industry records, for the next chapter I think that we were really surprised by and so as we were leading up to the Halo 3 look at it all up from a marketing team, DAVID HUFFORD: With Halo 3, we want to get video games are not something Video games have come of age. REPORTER: An exciting day REPORTER 2: Master Chief is back in the REPORTER 3: Thousands lined up of the trilogy I got here 6pm yesterday, PHIL SPENCER: Halo 3. What a massive launch event REPORTER: They have one million pre-orders REPORTER 2: Halo is projected to sell REPORTER 3: More than twice as many GAMER: It's only the biggest game ever. PHIL SPENCER: We were no longer some like We were launching one of the biggest Yeah! Halo 3 embodies our vision REPORTER: from clothing, to action figures Halo 3 really started to make gaming REPORTER: Its first-day sales could outdo not only the final Harry Potter book, DAVID HUFFORD: When everything was tallied 170 million dollars in revenue setting a new record for the biggest day LARRY HRYB: It was just an amazing moment. It was one thing after another, everything started clicking We delivered the right content, the right games, the right price, The ship had sailed, and kept sailing full-steam ahead. Only a week ago Peter Moore took the stage in Santa Monica, California A mere 7 days later and the Games for Windows division I left Xbox, because, I felt like KEVIN PEREIRA: Ironically, he'll be the former president of EA, with the face of the Xbox gone, the 360's standing in the console wars? MIKE MIKA: Don Mattrick was a really as a kid he wrote these amazing games AARON GREENBERG: he's a business leader, He really wanted the Xbox to be a product that could reach a broader DON MATTRICK: When I joined Microsoft, to have more than a two-product lifecycle. And to do that, we need to place bets, we need to innovate, both in gaming and in entertainment.&quot; When Don Mattrick came onboard, to a completely different audience So, there was this one meeting and he says, &quot;We're not going we're going for 300 million consoles.&quot; And, the strategy behind that was, AARON GREENBERG: we had Xbox Live built in, very basic blade for marketplace, One of the things was go get us some entertainment content, which was an entirely LARRY HRYB: We were excited when we had one movie and then two movies REPORTER: Microsoft's Xbox will transform Users will be able to navigate For the first time we're and digital-video content [NETFLIX SOUND] And then we had Netflix come on. Xbox 360 was a big part AARON GREENBERG: At the time, Netflix was REPORTER: Nationally, Netflix moves There's 40 of these warehouses -around the country. So that nearly every customer DON MATTRICK: Netflix hadn't done anything we thought, &quot;Why don't we call them up, in distributing their content AARON GREENBERG: We definitely accelerated to tens of millions of devices It's a great opportunity for Xbox members you know, watch movies from Netflix, AARON GREENBERG: And then it's like, Well we brought HBO, we brought Twitter, Today that may not seem but at the time, the idea to be able to do that all in one box DON MATTRICK: Our Xbox Live community, the gamertags, the achievements, we would hear consumers say they loved, TOM RUSSO: Xbox Live really proved I think that created this sort They knew that they probably needed They weren't just going they were gonna give you a console ANNOUNCER: This is Mike. By day, he's Mike the businessman. But, when he picks up the new Wii remote from Nintendo, he's Mike SHANNON LOFTIS: Holiday of 2006, and turned the world upside down. We're confident because for pick-up-and-play games for baseball, for tennis, But with the nunchuck, in a first-person type of game, Nintendo came out of left field based on technology, entertainment experience without being It really resonated with a mass audience, parents are playing video games SHANNON LOFTIS: Suddenly you heard people as something that was good for you. Wii Fit SHANNON LOFTIS: Video gaming as an approachable thing MAN: They went after senior citizens, they went after people [CLASSICAL-TYPE MUSIC PLAYING] JACK TRETTON: and they took gaming [CROWD CHEERING] I remember Bill putting a lot of pressure how did we miss motion gaming, We need to compete, we don't want to do a Wii-mote rip-off. We want to do our own thing. Don also had this vision DON MATTRICK: What would it be like we were recording movement? We were recording state-of-people, GEOFF KEIGHLEY: The controller to more people playing games. Because you had to kind of learn this if people could just like swat at things it's kind of crazy, but it's like that would make more people ALEX KIPMAN: We set out to really make to a whole new generation of people. To a whole new set of people that wouldn't otherwise think about gaming CARL LEDBETTER: We had already where we could map people. Using depth sensing and RGB cameras and microphones and stuff, by your television, you can still get these PHIL SPENCER: The idea that we were gonna projection and reflection, to measure movement, was pretty magical. SHANNON LOFTIS: an inventing step. ALEX KIPMAN: A lot of this work, we had to SHANNON LOFTIS: We found that the whole-body activities And so that's To create something [CROWD CHEERING] We launched Kinect I don't think anybody saw it coming. It was something completely -Wow, that's... -Oh my gosh. -That's crazy. -Okay. -Oh! In your opinion John, how does this JOHN: Oh it completely blows it away, It's crazy, it's Minority Report status, When I saw the Kinect, I thought, we're gonna use for VR eventually, it's going to be amazing MAN: Because it's motion gaming it is a completely different thing, CARL LEDBETTER: The games were really fun. It really unlocked Hiya! Hiya! Hiya! Fireball! REPORTER: We started getting people and you know encouraging the person AARON GREENBERG: The idea that, like, and then afterwards everybody and go play ping pong or go play a Dance Central, a whole 'nother sense of purpose. In the first 60 days, we sold over Kinect was a technological marvel, Kinect didn't work with Halo. But Kinect was an amazing tool and how we think about augmented reality ALEX KIPMAN: It's been fun to watch come not from academia or industry SHANNON LOFTIS: And it turned out that just went on to do incredible things REPORTER: People got into hacking Smartly, Microsoft responded by welcoming SHANNON LOFTIS: People were taking and it was a rich source of creativity What is neat is the technology and how it can be applied REPORTER: REPORTER 2: Microsoft's Kinect REPORTER 1: Being used to aid the Also by people who work ALEX KIPMAN: Kinect today So, gaming has created that today drives the industry forward. DON MATTRICK: With Xbox 360, we had an amazing product The ecosystem was healthy. Consumers were engaged It was the top-selling hardware device. Xbox 360 has been every month for the last six months. It was a pretty great second iteration MIKE MIKA: Against all odds, the Xbox 360 basically won GEOFF KEIGHLEY: By the end of that the pendulum had swung from PlayStation TINA SUMMERFORD: There were more players The brand really was in a terrific place. And there was no chance, that could possibly torpedo the success We're about to change Again. Because we're gonna In more than thirty years of innovation... And use it to change... Television. Television. -TV. -TV. -TV. TV. -TV. -Watch TV. This is it. Xbox One. I can't believe... I cannot believe this press conference! DREW ANGELOFF: We've got that are increasingly loving Xbox, and we're building great experiences and now we're going so we're gonna have the set-top box and it turned out like nobody wanted that. Oh hell no, Microsoft. Hell no.