Hello! Anastasia is with you on the Food for Every Taste channel, today we will cook soft lush cakes with you - this is an excellent substitute for unleavened bread, and by diversifying the filling you can get a completely different taste of pastries (even for tea). I will tell you in detail in the process, do not miss it! First things first, let's get started soon... 220 milliliters of warm water, 5 grams of sugar and 5 grams of dry yeast, stir until all grains are dissolved. If the yeast is fast-acting, then they can be added immediately with flour (usually this is indicated on the package, be careful!). Add 40 grams of sour cream or another fermented milk product - it can be kefir, yogurt, and so on, but always at room temperature. Now we add a little flour and with it 5 grams of salt, we will begin to knead the dough, adding the rest of the flour. I remind you that all the ingredients in spoons and glasses are also indicated under the video next to the grams. At the stage when the dough thickens like this, you can pour in 15 milliliters of vegetable oil. Keep in mind that yeast is different: 5 grams of yeast from a pack, where 11 grams per 1 kilogram of flour, if there are 10 grams per 1 kg of flour in a pack, then 4 grams of yeast will be needed for this recipe! In the meantime, all the flour has already been added, it took exactly 400 grams. Knead the dough until smooth and not sticky structure, if the dough sticks, do not immediately rush to add more flour. Of course, flour can be different, but it's better to knead the dough and it will start to fall behind the table and hands on its own (if it doesn't help, add a little more flour). You can already wash your hands from the remnants of the dough, lightly grease them with vegetable oil and that's it, the dough is already kneaded. Absolutely not sticky, homogeneous, but at the same time soft. We put it in a bowl slightly greased with vegetable oil, leave it to ferment in a warm place for 60 minutes. By the way, if you are not sure about the freshness of the yeast, then I advise you to make a dough first or at least mix the yeast with water, a &quot;cap&quot; foam should appear, this is in case that you do not transfer the products. Time has passed unnoticed for you, the dough is ready for cutting, it has risen perfectly! But, first we knead it well to release the accumulated gas inside, while adding a little flour, as the dough will be slightly sticky. Look how the dough is already bubbling! Cakes (pastry) will definitely be fluffy and airy. We divide the dough into 3 equal parts, a piece comes out about 220 grams each. We turn each part into an even ball, cover for another 10 minutes for elasticity, so that the dough itself does not shrink during rolling and is more pliable, and also rises again, and that's it! You can start making cakes. For a more convenient rolling of the dough, be sure to add flour, but a little, only slightly (as needed, do not hammer the dough). We roll it into a rectangle ... Baking is more like bread, so there is little filling, if you want more filling, then immediately roll out the dough much longer and much thinner so that it does not tear later when you stretch it. Lubricate the surface with creamy soft butter and sprinkle with whatever you like (I use suluguni cheese and green onions). Those who do not like it when cheese stretches - there is no such thing here, because there is not enough cheese and almost all of it will be absorbed into the dough during baking. Now fold the whole dough with the wide side, slightly fixing the edges. The most important thing is not to tighten the dough very much, if there is a lot of filling, then such a dough will definitely tear and the filling will peek out! We blind the seam and with this seam inside we wrap the roll with a &quot;snail&quot;, hide the tail. Press the cakes lightly. Immediately distribute them on a baking sheet at a distance (I use siliconized parchment for baking). So let's make all three cakes, cover them for 10 minutes before baking and preheat the oven to 200 degrees if you have a gas oven and 170 degrees (bottom + convection) if you use an electric oven. By the way, write what kind of oven you have, it's interesting to know! It's been ten minutes. Gently pressing on the cakes will make them thinner, today my cakes are about two centimeters thick, they will be lush, but everything is individual here. If you want thinner, then just roll out the dough initially thin, because when pressed , the filling will tear it, but be sure to stand before you stretch the cakes. Lubricate the surface with egg yolk, mixed with thick sour cream (yogurt), prick on top with a fork so that the rise is uniform and the same, so that the cakes do not swell anywhere and can be baked in a hot oven. Baking time is about 20-25 minutes (it all depends on the thickness of the cakes and on the oven itself, in my case it turned out so beautiful in an electric oven in 23 minutes!) Lubricate the hot cakes with the rest of the butter, let the oil soak in and the cakes cool a little, better on a wire rack . Lush, ruddy, soft! As an alternative to regular bread - just great! If there is more filling and thinner cakes, then it will turn out just as well. Recipe working and proven! Onions and cheese give a light taste, the cheese does not stretch almost, as it has been absorbed into the dough. The dough is delicious, porous ... Successful cooking! Subscribe to the channel, share the video with your friends. Bye...