Narrator: These pits in Sri Lanka hold some of the most valuable And miners risk their lives that could suddenly collapse. Only logs and leaves hold them up. But sand and water are Narrator: Samaranayakege Telakaratna has been mining gems for nearly 50 years. Today he's looking for to ruby, garnet, and topaz. Narrator: Sri Lanka's gemstone industry is nearly 2,500 years old. And artisans use ancient that sell for millions of dollars. But miners sometimes earn next to nothing, making it hard to survive in a country that recently went through its We traveled to the island's to find out how an industry got its start and whether the risk underground miners put themselves through is really worth it. Samaranayakege has lived which translates to the &quot;city of gems.&quot; Narrator: His morning ritual includes preparing betel leaf and tobacco. Workers chew on this stimulant The pit is 40 feet deep. Narrator: The nearby river soil, and water into the tunnels. Some underground mines are even So workers need to constantly But the muddy water is often dumped on the surrounding land and This video was filmed during a particularly heavy rainy season. That's why the tunnels are and that can cause them to collapse. In 2015, four people when a mine caved in. Narrator: To reinforce from local rubber trees. They peel off the bark, and make the wood rot easily. Then they gather a local Narrator: There are around All are privately owned, but need licenses from the And it can take over a year from a single pit. Today there are about 11 The lack of oxygen makes so they use air pumps through these tubes. Gases like methane are also Years of experience have taught them to guess the direction of the deposits. Narrator: Workers pack that can weigh up to 45 pounds. Narrator: They rinse the to remove mud and sand. Narrator: But the majority of the stones are worth nothing. On average, miners like Samaranayakege That's about $3, it's enough to buy But when they find a precious gem, who sell it to middlemen. Narrator: Ratnapura is because of the area's Underground rocks here are of heat and pressure. and physical composition, Heavy rains, landslides, and and carry them downstream. So miners also look for They create a scaffolding and dive to the bottom to dig them up. Or they use blades called mamotyes. That can cause extensive It's why mines like these by the country's gem authority. But experts say underground Miners remove native vegetation when they clear out the land, and some pits aren't filled causing accidents. The industry as a whole employs The stones are sold at wholesale markets like this one in Ratnapura. Chaminda Athuraliyagamage's workshop has been around since 2002. Workers cut the gems with a Narrator: The smaller and polished into individual gems. A one-carat blue sapphire from Sri Lanka can range from $450 to $1,600, depending on the four C's: or weight. The largest star sapphire in the world was found in Ratnapura in 2016. It's called the Star of Adam, While global demand is growing, the gems are still refined At this workshop in Ratnapura, Sunil is using a centuries-old technique to enhance the color of the gems. He places them on coals as hot Then he blows on the which alters the color and clarity. Artisans say this method has been used for more than 1,500 years. But Sri Lanka's gem-mining Jewels adorned thrones of Sri Kings from the island often sent gems to foreign lands to establish Venetian Explorer Marco Polo even mentioned the gems in his journals. But a political and economic crisis has put this historic Hundreds of thousands in widespread protests last year and ousted President Gotabaya Rajapaska. They blamed his government as prices of food and fuel spiked. And that directly affected miners. Narrator: Samaranayakege's says their family had a Narrator: But no matter Piyaseeli says the work Sometimes miners can go weeks without finding a valuable gem. And although Samaranayakege has he wants a different