Oh Mohammed Hijab. You have just embarrassed He's not just controlling my comments. He's controlling everybody's comments. What I'm talking about is him taking separately filmed footage and editing it into the original debate to make it look as though it was said in the original debate. The audience members decided to Google it and lo and behold I was right. And this is what happened. I'm not quite sure I'm but given the amount of times that Mohammed Hijab has with titles such as &quot;Atheist rattled by simple question&quot; and &quot;Muslim gets agreement I think it's somewhat permissible. But anyway, you're here now, regardless. So, hello, hi, my name is Alex O'Connor, I took part in a debate and Abdullah al Andalusi on the motion, &quot;Islam explains reality The debate, frankly, was a disaster, and for a long time I've This is one of my most a debate review of what went wrong. Originally, my intention was just to cover the subject matter of the debate and explain why things got confused and why we kind of were at different points in the debate. But when I went back and try and discover some I realized it is just so much worse than I originally thought. So in this video, I want to which you may have seen me not just the subject matter of the debate, but things like controlling comments. Things like misrepresenting me Things like quoting me during the debate on quotes that simply do not exist, or even better, and you'll quoting me, quoting other people, and pretending as though is my own belief. I'm not kidding, stick around. So what I'm realistically is just watch through and explain what went wrong. Explain how I was on numerous occasions. Explain the kind of while going through this debate and why responded in the ways that I did or didn't at the time, but before I do so, there are a few points about the debate itself the way it was handled, the way it's been and things like this. So let's just run through and you'll see what I'm talking about. So the first thing to note is that Mohammed Hijab's is titled &quot;Islam versus atheism This debate was not hosted as it says in the event description, this was hosted by the Oxford Forum, which is a student run society. I know the organizers of the debate. They put in a lot of effort to try and get this to come to pass. And when they did, they got And I remember when we did the next debate that I did with Subboor Ahmad which was also filmed they told me that they were quite upset by the fact that they So that's the first thing to note is that there's absolutely no referencing to the people who hosted the debate nor is there a link to my And in fact, why don't we just take a look at the description of this video in which the events are described. &quot;The debate was hosted Not true, as I say. &quot;The topic debated was 'Does Islam explain reality &quot;and the arguments made &quot;and intense Al-hamdulillah, &quot;the truth of Islam was demonstrated &quot;to not only be the best &quot;but the only explanation &quot;with what we can observe. &quot;On the other side, the Atheist's denial, notice atheist is &quot;of God meant that they couldn't provide &quot;an ultimate explanation of reality &quot;without falling into self contradictions. So this is a taste of the that we're dealing with Bearing in mind that over the footage, right? This is another thing that I need to note, is that I am not allowed I don't have permission to do so. Originally before the debate was put on, I was under the understanding that I would be able to but this isn't something who was the organization So admittedly like this could be fine. It could just be due Anyway, after the debate happened, I got an email through that said look, we filmed this, we paid for this, but we understand that you So we'll allow you to do so I'm not going to actually show or something. I'm not sure what the but there were four conditions that were mentioned in the email pertaining to how I could use the footage. The first was that I'm only allowed to use a specified 40 I'm only allowed to include That is to say, I can't Again, this is potentially reasonable because they want people to of the video, because they filmed it. So fair enough. That's okay. Then they listed three conditions. First condition, I or edit the footage in any way. Of course, perfectly reasonable. Second. I'm not allowed to control None held for review, none Again, perfectly reasonable. This is a public debate and we don't want to be Condition three. I appropriately reference and cite them as the originators of the footage and give them credit where credit is due. None of these three in return. Okay, let's go through This will probably amaze you. On the first point, about Okay, I'm not just talking from the original debate and Although they did do that. What I'm talking about is them taking separately filmed footage and editing it into the original debate to make it look as though it was said in the original debate, right? I'm not kidding, right? Edited in footage, literally filmed separately to make it look as though it I have never come across in my life. And I couldn't believe it when Let me demonstrate it to you now. Okay, So here we are. It's Mohammed Hijab's closing statement which you can find in the original speech, now for most of the speech, it's one continuous shot If we watch him talk for a minute - In fact, like Abdullah That's what the Quran says. Chapter 39, verse 29. Allah says in the Quran, he says. (speaking Arabic) - Ooh did you spot that? Did you see what happened there? Let's watch that again. - Allah says in the Quran, he says, (speaking Arabic) - Okay, so there appears Now was this just a cut or something like that? Well, let's analyze this cut and see what actually happened here. Okay, so before the cut, these are the things to take Firstly Mohammed Hijab and notice how the tie is Also notice that he's wearing that's clipped on to pick up his voice. Now compare that with the clip As you can see, not only has I mean, I'm surprised I because it's obvious what's happened here but just in case, take a look at the tie, it's no longer tucked in. Now, again, this could be something to do with it being filmed at in the debate and the tie Okay, but look, there's also Okay, the microphone and all of the other debaters and left on until the end, right? The fact that the microphone implies only one thing. This was not filmed during the debate. Now to their credit, they've at least tried to I mean, it might be the same background. I'm pretty sure they left So I'm not sure. I mean, it looks to me as behind Mohammed in the second They're like thinner slabs or something. Than in the original I mean, there's a small chance it was filmed in the same venue, but what's certain is that was not said in the This is editing, right. Not just, as I say, not just taking a clip or something like that, but literally splicing to make it look as though it was said in the original debate. Have you ever seen I certainly haven't. I think it's absolutely scandalous and I've never been more outraged in regards to a debate that I've done. I genuinely was just flabbergasted when I first noticed this. Now the thing that's been edited in here is Mohammed Hijab's something he often does in his debates. So it may be argued that this it's not like he edited in a new argument or something like that. Instead he was just trying to make sure that he got the quote correct. Okay, but this is bad enough. Firstly, you just don't This is just not something that you do. Secondly, if he misquoted the Quran, there seems to be something going on here, which I'd like to point out. And I have to hypothesize this because I can't be sure this is the case, but what if I were to misquote the Quran? What if I made an argument and I misquoted the Quran. Mohammed Hijab would have jumped on me for misquoting the Quran saying, I don't know As you can see him doing to David Wood, in his debate with David Wood, when David Wood doesn't and he tries to employ them. Mohammed Hijab jumps on him right? I'm sure the same thing But if Mohammed Hijab misquotes His organization has a so they can just delete it. Pretend it never happened And they didn't even do a very good job. I mean, at least make sure that and you've put the lapel mic on. I mean, you've gone to the trouble of replicating the background, you could at least I think this is absolutely outrageous. Point number two, about This is a really interesting one. As we'll see where if we there's a point during at which my microphone Now these things sometimes do happen. Sometimes there are genuine It just so happens that it cut out at the moment I was talking which has the injunction Now when I started talking about that, how the Quran permits my microphone cut out, right? Now, that might be a But as I say, I'm willing to grant them So what I did was I decided explaining what I'd said So I just said, listen, at this point in the debate, here's the kind of of what I said when it cut out. You won't find that comment underneath Mohammed Hijab's video. Now why might that be? Okay, maybe he thinks it's unfair for one of the members of the debate to kind of get to have more or something like that. No, no, he's not just He's controlling everybody's comments. So let me prove this to you. Firstly, it's proven itself, the fact that my own comment It proves to me that some You can see on my version of the video, my comment is right here under the video. It's right here. I'll post a screenshot or something if you can't see it on the camera here. But if you go into a public not from my account, the comment simply isn't there. In other words, the comment because it's right there, or not approved or something like that. Now how do I know that this Well, firstly, because many that they've left a under the video but also we can do a simple Take a look at this, just a few days before or I had this debate with Mohammed Hijab and Abdullah al Andalusi. I debated Jonathan McClatchy, on the topic of Christianity, Now that footage was on and I uploaded it. So let's take a look here real quick. The debate that I uploaded has 469,000 views and 18,400 comments. Okay, that's the kind of on a video and especially Okay, so nearly half a million views and 18 and a half thousand comments. Compare that to Mohammed Hijab's debate, which has more views, it's got just over 700,000 views. And how many comments? 661. Something's not adding up here. Now, it's one thing, it's bad enough to just and only leave in the ones and saying that the atheist got destroyed. Okay, that's bad enough in itself. But the goal, the irony of and saying, Hey one of our of this footage is that you Like, who the hell do you think you are to tell me not to manipulate the comments, not to edit the footage when you're doing all of and completely unashamedly. Again, this just bemuses me. I can't believe this kind And finally, on the third I was expected to credit them which of course I would have done. I don't see any credit for the Oxford Forum They don't even get a mention. I myself do get a mention, but no links are provided to which is standard procedure Okay, so those are the three So this ladies and gentlemen Now, before we even get into the debate, you know what we're dealing with here, people who control who misquote, who mysteriously maybe not. We'll talk about that when And then email me saying to do any of these things. This is what we're dealing with. Let's get into the actual debate itself and see what went wrong here. I'm not gonna play the whole debate because that would be and probably wouldn't get very many views because people would just rather go and watch the original debate. So I'm not going to play it all. I'm going to play the relevant parts here but of course the full video because I properly reference my videos. The first thing to note is who was the first speaker for on their side I found to be incredibly He was a perfectly nice man. We talked before, we talked afterwards and I have absolutely no quarrel with him. Mohammed Hijab on the other hand, I remember when I helped to to the venue that one day Of course, I didn't know that at the time. I remember kind of seeing I went up, I shook his hand. I said hello. He just didn't want to talk to me. He kind of sat over on one of the seats with his people and didn't really engage unlike Abdullah. So I just wanted to make the point that I've got no quarrel with Abdullah and I don't think he should Also because the Oxford both Mohammed and Abdullah They wanted to get someone So they got Colin Brewer, and well, let's just not Okay, so let's have a look which was the second I'm going to cut to the middle here and we'll have a listen The verse which I'll quote you, &quot;Men are in charge of women &quot;by right of what Allah has &quot;and what they spend for &quot;So righteous are women &quot;guarding in their husbands absence &quot;what Allah would have them guard, &quot;but those wives from &quot;first advise them. &quot;Then if they persist, (indistinct) Then what? What comes next? Of course we have no way to know because my microphone cut that I said, and finally strike them. Which is the most problematic And the reason I was citing it to use against the case for It's funny that. Now bear in mind, if this was a mistake, if this was just a technical error, every single other It was recording. Or at the very least there You could easily just I mean, you can just in the background, right? All you have to do is and you can hear what I'm saying. You just take one of the other that would have picked up what But no, the microphone just cuts out and absolutely nothing is done about it. Luckily of course we where I can go and tell... Oh no, wait, hold on. I forgot about that. (indistinct muffled speech) Perhaps this isn't the thing about women. Oh good, the microphone just to the point when I finished talking about the striking of wives. That's really great. That's very convenient. Again, probably just a technical error. There could be many, many in this debate, but it's to decide whether or not you believe that. Oh wait, it gets even better because I can show and how it would be possible to allow you to hear what I was saying despite Because at the beginning opening statement you'll notice something Take a listen. (audience applaud) - I want to thank you Thank you very very much for coming, it's first day of Ramadan for us. - Do you hear how the quality But the volume didn't, right? The reason for that is the microphone that's on his lapel, that mysteriously disappears wasn't picking up his Maybe they hadn't activated but notice what they They've taken audio that was and they've boosted it. Perhaps the other microphone was trying to pick up the At any rate, what they've been able to do is take another microphone's picking up of what Mohammed Hijab said, boosts it so that we can hear what it says and then blend it in with When the lapel microphone listen again, you'll see (audience applaud) - I want to thank you Thank you very very much for coming, it's first day of Ramadan for us. - There's a clear shift in quality, indicating that it's gone to the microphone on his The volume has been adjusted accordingly. Now compare that with and came back in again (indistinct muffled speech) perhaps this isn't the thing about women. Notice how the microphone There was kind of no volume. You could just about hear a muffled kind of computery microphone And then boom, it came back on again at a higher volume, right? Compare that to Mohammed not coming on, but other microphones that picked up what he in order to still hear what he was saying. what I'm saying, in other words, is that even if this even if it were that my microphone did actually just cut out. This could have been easily remedied in the way they remedied Mohammed but they chose not to. And I can only wonder why that might be. Anyway, let's take a look at Mohammed Hijab's opening statement and we'll break it down and see where things went a bit wrong. - I want to thank you Thank you very much for coming, it's first day of Ramadan for us. And we're happy to have you. Now I've come here me and Abdullah, actually, we've come here to refute magic. Wait a minute, what did you say? Let me say that one more time. We've come here to refute magic. It's actually a interesting magic trick where there is no bunny. There's no hat. And in fact there's no magician at all. It's the proposition that not only from nothing but from nothing and by nothing. - Now, it's hard to clearly make out, under the thunderous from Mohammed Hijab's brilliant joke. But I think what he's saying is that an atheist in this that something came from nothing, which of course is not the case. I was countering their claim rather than making a claim of my own. But that's something that will - The Quran says (speaking Arabic). Were they created from nothing, or were they themselves Now we've heard Alex today for the second time, He says that the universe from nothing. Minute, 14 to 15 in his video. &quot;Does the universe have a cause&quot; it says &quot;When the universe &quot;it well and truly came Now wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a challenge. That's an active claim. He said, I'm not here to Sorry, that is an active claim. - Ooh, Mohammed Hijab, you have just embarrassed I'm about to demonstrate to you just by showing the that you are either completely I don't know which it is but I cannot believe you You're absolutely going to love this. Well, you might hate it, Let's let's just listen again to the claim that Make sure you understand it before I show what he's gotten wrong here. - Minute 14 to 15 in his video, &quot;Does the universe have a cause&quot; it says &quot;When the universe &quot;it well and truly came - Okay, so in my video, I say that when the it began to exist out of nothing, right? That's a claim. The universe began to That's a claim, an active claim I'm making that I have to defend. Now, Mohammed kind of presses that this is a claim that and defend. Let's take a listen to that too. - Now wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a challenge. That's an active claim. He said I'm not here to Sorry, that is an active claim. Look at the syntax of You are saying the universe from nothing. Don't pretend to be passive. Oh, I don't know. No, you do know. You're making a statement, either you know what Tell me how the universe came and by nothing, ex nihilo. I want to know. Tell me how that's ontologically, cosmologically, Give me the answer, please. - Okay, I'm beginning that Mohammed Hijab wants that the universe began Okay, slight problem with that. I never said that. Mohammed Hijab has quoted me Quoting me quoting a belief and is claiming that I was I'm gonna prove this to you that he provided and demonstrating to you what's happened here. So let's just find the quote - Minute 14 to 15 in his video, &quot;Does the universe have a cause&quot; he says &quot;When the universe &quot;it well and truly came - Okay, here we are. So let me just play this now. Firstly, of course we have the universe. When the universe came into existence, it truly did come into Okay, because for the universe to be born, if there was something before it, then that would be So this there truly begin Ah, interesting. Seems like I said it when it truly came into Wow, Mohammed Hijab has except no, he hasn't. Because let's just go in this very same video, because any follower of my channel will know that I don't make that claim. I don't say that the universe So why did I say it there? Well, let's go back and find out. In this talk that I'm giving. I'm talking about the Kalam which is an argument with two premises. The first premise is that everything which begins to exist has a cause. The second premise is that And the conclusion is that Notice that the second premise there, that the universe began to exist. That's the second premise of the Kalam. That's the claim that and have to defend. So let's take a look about these premises. The premises, most people when they see this and they're trying to debunk it, they jump straight to the second premise. This seems the easiest to debunk. The reason being is you can simply ask well, how do you know? How do you know that the Now, to be sure the big bang happened. Okay, we're pretty certain but the big bang never claimed to be the beginning of everything. Okay, so here's our first indication that something's gone wrong. I'm arguing that actually that premise that the universe began to Even if we agree that You can't say that that was The beginning of the Okay, so maybe I'm not making that claim but why did I say it Why did I say it such that Well, let's continue. What we could do is say, well, you can't prove So the argument's flawed is debunked and we can all go home. But that would be no fun. And so I don't want to We're going to give the atheists the benefit of the doubt here. And instead talk about premise one; Whatever begins to exist has a cause. We're going to give the theist In other words, I think that this premise, that the universe began but I'm willing to grant to talk about the rest of the argument. Okay, just consider that. Make sure we've understood this correctly. Okay, the premise of the is that the universe began to exist. And I've said, I don't believe that but I'm just going to grant it so that I can talk about the argument. Okay. So now consider what I say in a minute. Firstly, of course we have the universe. When the universe came into existence it truly did come into So this should be clear now. What I was doing was saying that, look, I'm going to grant you the premise Mr. Atheist, that the in order to help your argument. But just so you know, for this to be of any it would have to be beginning Okay? So let's grant the premise that even though I don't believe it. But when the universe did begin to exist, it began to exist out of nothing. Notice what's happened here. I've said, I'm going to grant the premise. I then quoted the premise and then Mohammed Hijab has and said that that's what I believe. And that ladies and gentlemen, You say you're not making any claims. No, come on, show me how this is possible. Show me, demonstrate to me how this is possible. Come on, man. This isn't what I said. And I could forgive you for just not having heard that having misunderstood what But that qualification came before the quote that and just before as well, in the opening part of the discussion. So you've either not that you try to quote It's again, up to the audience to decide which has happened here. So now, just to let this sink in, let me just recap what's happened here. I make an argument talking about the Kalam And I say that the universe began to exist is a claim that I don't believe. I don't believe that the but let me just grant it Now, bear in mind that when the in your argument, it began Now look at the quote that and what he says about it. - Minute 14 to 15 in his video, &quot;Does the universe have a cause&quot; he says &quot;When the universe &quot;it well and truly came Now wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a challenge. That's an active claim. He said, I'm not here to Sorry, that is an active claim. - Mate, that's embarrassing. - Look at the syntax of You are saying the universe from nothing. Don't pretend to be passive. Oh, I don't know. No, you do know. You're Either you know what - No, Mohammed Hijab, it seems that you don't You don't understand That's the problem that throughout this entire debate. But here's the first example quoting someone else's belief and saying it's what I believe in and trying to use it against me. Okay, good start. - Tell me how the universe came and by nothing, ex nihilo. I want to know. Tell me how that's ontologically, cosmologically. From first principles. Give me the answer, please. - But don't worry, this that Mohammed Hijab misquotes There are at least two other examples that I can think of off the But again, we'll get round - What is interesting &quot;Something from nothing&quot; where he was debating with a fellow American, or an American man, minute 48, he says this, listen to this - Aha, prepare yourselves. It's another quote. - He agrees with the radio that the universe is Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's going on here, - I think you, the audience, should know by now what's going on here. I've actually only just noticed this but you can actually see me smirking, smiling, as he's saying - That the universe is Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's going on here, - Oh, you can see the face that someone has completely It's kind of a second hand embarrassment that you're seeing on my face there. You can see in my face, that I'm not just doing I'm not just going back This is what I meant. This is what I'm saying. I knew what the time that Mohammed Hijab quoted me with Cameron Bertuzzi on So let's go find the quote. Okay, minute 48. Let's watch this together. - I'm just going to say yeah, the universe can be that. - Do you see how that objection into the very first premise, because if I'm going to deny the existence of contingent objects as then that kind of means that the universe and everything in it is - Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's going on here, What does necessarily existence mean? A necessarily fact is a fact Two plus two equals four. That's eternally going to be the case. So a necessary existence is eternal. It cannot be any other way. So wait a minute, if the universe is eternal, Contradiction. - Okay, we're going to and get a bit philosophical which I suppose it's about time. But notice that there are that we could be talking about here. Mohammed Hijab wants to talk a necessary existence, right? Because he believes this is God, right? Something that exists necessarily, as an example of necessity, he gives two plus two equals four. This is an example of something It's not an example of a And there's a difference here. Two plus two equals four, can because it can't be false. But it would be meaningless therefore exists. That it's a thing that in the universe or outside It's just to say that the Not to say that there is So you can admit that some You can admit, I say admit, you can just accept the without admitting that that exists, right? This should be trivially true. Of course I can say that Like two plus two equals four, without having to also believe that there is a necessary Because these are two different things that need to be pulled apart. - Contradiction. It's a contradiction. You can't have it both ways my friend. And this is where atheism leads you to. Contradictory set of propositions. - So it's a contradiction, apparently. Not so, I'm afraid. What did I mean when I was about necessity? Well, I was talking about the universe and everything in it being necessary. This should be the first indication that I wasn't talking about I said that, or I was of the universe and everything How can everything in if by necessity, I'm existing necessary being. Clearly I'm talking about a I'm talking about causal necessity. I'm talking about the idea of determinism, the idea that there's a It's an idea I'm sure my It's at the basis of my The idea that causes and entirely each other. Okay, so what I was considering was the possibility that was necessary. That all of the effects in because they were just following causes that came before them, That's the kind of necessity Necessarily causation. Mohammed Hijab says, hold on, wait a minute. He's talking about necessity, which must be a which we define as God. - So wait a minute. This is very important, guys. Hold on, hold on. Hold on, hold on. Hold on, hold on. You agree that there a necessarily existence. If you agree with me on that, then you're not an atheist. Because the necessary existence is the Islamic definition of God. - And if you think that a necessary being can be defined as a causal chain that exists inside the universe, In other words, we're using different It's almost like I meant something else when I said necessity exists and you've taken that quoted me on it to make it seem as though I agree with you when I in fact don't. And Mohammed Hijab should know this. I mean, look what he's done here. He said, we're trying to that is God. He's trying to show that I believe in God by saying that I believe But his example of is that two plus two equals four. - What does necessarily existence mean? A necessary fact is a fact Two plus two equals four. That's eternally going to be the case. - Mohammed Hijab has given us an example of the thing I believe in, just the existence of necessity and try to use that to show that I believe in a necessary being. A necessary object, which And this is the most infuriating thing, is that later in this Mohammed Hijab kind of tests me on it. He says, do you think there's And I say, yes. Now this is a clip that Mohammed and uploads separately. I'll leave a link in the description. And the video is titled something like &quot;Muslim gets agreement from What are we agreeing on? We're using different It's like me just defining God and saying, do you believe And you say yes. And I say, ah, well, that's So you agree with me. And uploading that to YouTube and saying, I get an that God exists. Like, no, you haven't. Like, that's not clever. You haven't done a good job there. Actually, you know what? I'm just going to skip forward and show you this actually happening. So this period of the debate is just a lot of kind of bickering and talking over each other, there's only a few kind that could be extracted from it. But I don't want you to think that I'm picking and choosing here. So again, the link is in the description to watch the whole debate. But I'm going to pick out the So first is this point about necessity. Let's have a look at our interaction here. - Do you agree that there could be- - [Alex] No, let me explain that. - Do you accept that there - I would say that, yes. - Then that's God. - But that doesn't have to be God. It does not. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. That's our understanding of God. - Aha. Well, I don't know how I'm ever Just excellent supreme take down. I mean, asking if I believe in necessity and me saying yes and you saying, well, the debate's over because that's how we define God. I mean, I never would have seen it coming. This, by the way, is the That Mohammed Hijab uploaded on a video entitled &quot;Muslim gets agreement from with an exclamation mark to go with it. And it's this, it's this clip. It's him saying do you believe Me saying, I guess so. And him saying, Ah, well that's God. I mean, brilliant, fantastic. Again, I'm just bemused at at debating. It does not have to be God. - For us, a necessarily existence is something which is, this is perfect, couldn't be any other way, That's our definition of God. explain everything else. - Because without it... 'Cause it's necessary, (crosstalk) - [Mohammed] Alex. - So here's also indication that we're not talking about and was going to be demonstrated with the question I asked that we don't actually Now, this could be something, you could put this down to about what necessity means. And that will be legitimate. It would be like, well, We just understood the terms differently. But no, because he's quoting me, he saying I'm making a claim. And so the burden is on him to make sure he's that he knows what I mean. If he's going to say this and this is what it entails, you better be sure that you You can't rely on just saying but I'm using a different Well, if that's the case, or don't quote me and Now, hopefully I explained what I meant when I said as a deterministic causal chain. And you can see me trying to as I begin to realize what in the next part of the clip. - All contingent things depend upon it. Yes? - Give me an example - Anything. This cup. - How is it contingent? - Because it could have - You do know you're Okay, so what I'm trying to imply here is Mohammed Hijab is saying because it could have been another way. And I'm saying no, no, I'm a determinist. So I don't think it could I think it was necessarily to be as it was. That's what I mean by necessity. Right? So that's why I say when he I say, you know you're speaking Implying, you know that I mean causal necessity of his response. You do know you're - [Mohammed] Pardon. - Do you know you're speaking to a determinist? does determinism come from? - Where does determinism come from? Like what? Let me ask you a question, might seem isolated - but it will make sense. - [Mohammed] Go ahead. - Okay. So here's the question that demonstrates that we're not talking about the same thing here. If P entails Q, and P is necessary. Yes. - [Mohammed] No. - [Alex] It's not. - No. - I mean, this appears not just to be us kind of having a different definition but Mohammed Hijab not Okay, let's just think about this question that I just asked. I said, if P entails Q and P is necessary, is Q also necessary? In other words if P necessarily exists, if it has to happen, right? If there's no way that And if P then Q, if if P's existence entails Q's existence, is Q also necessary, right? And Mohammed Hijab says no. He says that somehow you can have a thing that is necessarily true. That has to be true. That makes something else true. And yet the second thing You want to talk about Mohammed Hijab, this is one of To say this something is necessarily true is to say that it is under all interpretations in a truth table logically speaking. To say that it cannot be So consider this question, right? P entails Q and P is necessarily true. That means that you are able to say that it's true that P, and it's true that P entails Q, but that Q is false, Okay, this is literally a That you can prove this logically that this is a contradiction. You can put it into a and you can demonstrate that this simply cannot be the case. In other words, the answer to the question is that if P is necessary and P entails Q then logically Q also has to be true. And if it has to be true, that means it's necessary. Yeah, but Mohammed Hijab says no, right? Hence my response of a just to fully comprehend If P entails Q, and P is necessary. Yes. - [Mohammed] No. - [Alex] It's not? - No. No, no, no, it's not. - It doesn't have to be. Again, I don't know how obvious this is to everybody watching, but it's just the most obvious P has to be true. P entails Q, and yet Q doesn't have to be true. This simply doesn't make sense. - If a necessary- - Sorry- Let me explain why. What we're doing here is we've said that these - [Alex] As you're defining them. - Do you accept that this cup could have otherwise - [Alex] No. - So okay this- - That's what determinism is. Okay, so maybe it's finally for Mohammed Hijab that when I'm talking about causal necessity meaning that things like causally speaking. And that's what it means Maybe finally this is sinking in. So what's Mohammed Hijab's response? To change the point, to try and make another point. Let's just see what he goes on and says. - So okay this- - That's what determinism is. - Well, hold on. Do you believe in determinism? - Yes. - And you said in your &quot;A universe from nothing&quot; you said that determinism comes from the necessary existence. - Now, this is the third has quoted me. And this time I just can't find the quote. I mean, I've looked and I It's possible that I did. And if I did, and one of you But I'm doubtful that I Now usually I would say something like, well, I'm sure I did. I'm sure I just can't find it. But with the amount of has already misquoted me, I'm skeptical. But again, I'm just going to that I did say this and Now, again, Mohammed, I'm granting this for Okay, granting it for I don't believe it. So you're not allowed to quote me on it and say it's what I actually believe. Okay, just to be clear, if you're going to use this or publication. - You said that determinism comes from the necessary existence. - Determinism comes from Now, what could I mean by this? Well, if I did say this, then this is what I would have meant. What I would have meant is that if there is a necessary existence, then determinism follows, okay. Determinism comes from Because I was trying to in the original debate that if there is a which again, granting if that is a necessarily being, my point was that if his then the things that are must be necessarily true. If P is necessary and P entails Q, then Q must be necessary. So if God is necessary and God has a will that are a particular way, then And that would be determinism, right? Because determinism of being necessarily ordained So, okay, what am I saying here? I'm saying that if there then things would be determined. Potentially. Determinism follows from necessary being. - Determinism comes from - What I'm not saying is that determinism can only follow from a necessary being. I'm saying if there's a necessary being, determinism would follow. I'm not saying that determinism always comes from a necessary being. And this is the mistake - You said this. the Contingency debate, is that right? 48 minutes in. You said that one necessarily In other words, determinism Yes or no? - Sorry, say that again. Determinism leads- You said determinism leads - Okay, I think we were with- - I think we were talking Yes. Yes, we were. Now, what does Mohammed Hijab say to me, trying to clarify what my own words meant? Okay, I think we were talking - [Mohammed] No, no, no, you said this and I can show you, 48 - Yes I said that sentence but I meant a different thing - [Alex] by necessary existence. - No, hold on. You said the universe was - I mean, come on. He says, you said this. And I said yes, but I meant a different And he goes, perfect, no, no, hold Like, no, listen to me, right? You're going to go on and but I'm trying to explain to you that you've got my views wrong. That you've misunderstood When I said that determinism I didn't mean what you That not what I said. Now you're going to try and tell me that I'm committed to because of it. Even though that's not Again, I'm going to Just one more time in the debate. Let's see if third time's a charm. Yes, I said that sentence. but I meant a different thing - [Alex] by necessary existence. - No, hold on. You said the universe was - This can't be a semantic - [Mohammed] It's not. by what you're talking about. but you said this, you said- - I meant something different No problem, but you said this. Like, dude, come on. Are we here to have a discussion or are we here to listen to you babble on about things that I never actually said? - You said- - [Alex] Definitions matter. - You said determinism comes - What did I mean by that? What did I mean by that? What I was saying was that if there is In the same way that I if it rains, then my hair will get wet. Okay, this is the analogous situation. Now that would mean I'd be saying that my hair getting wet, Now, imagine I said, my hair is wet. Does that mean that it was raining? Not necessarily, because although yes, my from it raining. It could also follow So when I say my... I could have had a shower, right? If I have a shower, my hair gets wet. So my hair getting wet also My hair getting wet follows So when I say something like it follows from it raining My hair getting wet follows from rain. I then also say that my hair is wet. I'm not committed to the In the same sense, if I say that determinism and that I believe in determinism, I'm not committed to saying because I'm saying that yes necessity would cause determinism to follow from it. But determinism can follow from So this is the confusion, right? Mohammed Hijab says, you said determinism and that you agree with determinism, therefore you must agree with necessity. That's like saying, you said follows from it raining, and that your hair is wet, Simply not the case. Again, you've misunderstood me. Now, listening back to this, I can actually see that I tried to explain this exact interpretation. That what I was saying is that if there's necessary existence, determinism follows, right? Let me try and explain this to and see what happens. Right, I now know what - Do you remember? - The person I was debating with, a guy called Cameron Bertuzzi, - [Mohammed] Yes. He was making the case for - [Mohammed] Right. that there are contingent And therefore he was using that to reason that there's a God. And I said, that if that were the case, - [Mohammed] Yes. - That necessary existence, - [Mohammed] Yes. - the determinism would follow from that. - I was making the case. - I didn't say - that it does exist. - I didn't say that it does exist. - We agree with you on that point. - Interrupts me halfway through explaining what I was talking about, say perfect, I agree with I agree with you. Trying to get agreement in a debate, exclamation mark. Okay, this isn't impressing anyone. Like Mohammed Hijab can't explaining the point before saying perfect, perfect, perfect. Yes, yes No this agrees with my point. And here's why. Like, again, this is just Even if Mohammed Hijab what I was saying and Let alone when he's not. - Your believe in a necessary existence, which explains everything else- - No necessary existence, be careful. Aha, it's almost like I'm trying yet again to tell Mohammed, that when I'm not talking about Be careful, I'm talking about causal necessity Again, I try to warn Mohammed, and again, Mohammed responds like this. - [Mohammed] And as you said, Are you retracting it? - [Alex] I said that the- - Are you retracting? - Am I retracting what? Am I retracting your - [Mohammed] Are you retracting it? - [Alex] I said that the- - Are you retracting? - That there's not one - [Mohammed] No, no, you was a necessary existence. So are you retracting that? No, no, no, no, no, no. Stop explaining what you This is what you meant by it. Now, do you retract it? Come on man. - [Mohammed] So are you retracting that? - The universe follows a There it is. The universe follows a That's what I mean when I - Okay, no, you said, hold on. You said the universe is a necessary- - Looks like Abdullah is maybe catching on to what's happening here and Mohammed, you'd do well to a bit more closely next time. - Okay, no, you said, hold on. You said the universe is And then you said determinism Now I'm saying that you said- if I said that and I meant then yes, I retract it, - [Mohammed] So you retract it? - But I don't think that's what I meant. There we go. I put it as plainly as it gets, look, Mohammed, I've that this is not what I meant, but look, if I did say that and if that is what I meant by it, then yeah, sure I retract it, because that's not what I said. I don't think that's what I meant. And what's Mohammed's response. If I said that and I meant then yes, I retract it. But I don't think- - [Mohammed] So you retract it? - So you retract it? I simply cannot win, right? He said, here's a claim that you made. And I say, that's not what And he said, no, no, you said it. You said it. You said it. And this is what it means. And I say, no, no, If you allow me to explain, Oh, interrupted with him saying no, no, you said this, you said this. So why are you retracting it? I say look, if that's then yeah, I retract it. 'Cause that's not what I meant. And he goes, aha, so you've retracted it. And this is infuriating because it's just not that I'm trying to I'm trying to say, look, Make sure you understand me correctly before you make your argument. So that it's a steel man. And when he refuses to do so, I say well, look, I'm fine to say that it, let me just say that that is what I said then yeah I retract it. And even then, even after all of that, Mohammed Hijab comes back with this. - No, no, it's important guys. Because if you're changing your argument now- Can I have an answer to my question - about who created God? that's the only reason why Thank you. - Yeah. Mohammed, people when the audience applauds what they say but nobody's falling for this. So let's just summarize what's happened in this little section. Mohammed Hijab says he quotes me and says, this is and this commits you to believing in God. I say, that's not what I said. You've misunderstood me. Mohammed Hijab says, no, I understand your word better than you do. I say, no, be careful here. This is not what I said. And he says, yes it is. And I give up and say, okay, well look, let's just say that that Then I retract it. Whatever let's just talk about what I actually believe in now. And he goes, ah, you retract it. You retract it because You know what I think it is Alex. You're retracting it because I've been cornered by your And I hope that this is the audience, who are watching this. I hope it's as obvious to And is to me now watching it back. - Because now you've been cornered, that's the only reason why Thank you. - That's the only reason why What argument have I changed? What argument have I retracted? I challenge you Mohammed Hijab. And I mean that in this if you're going to make because you've been when I've been requesting access of this debate to my channel, respond to this, tell me in this clip, because this is a clip and uploaded as a clip Tell me what argument I changed. Tell me what my argument Tell me exactly what I meant by it and what the argument was. And tell me what I changed Because you said that I've and changed my argument Explain what my argument originally was. Explain how I changed my mind and explain how that happened because you cornered me, right? When you do that, when you do that then maybe, maybe I'll So the next part of the is kind of about morality. Abdullah makes the point that John Locke, who is kind of the founder said that atheists can't Now I tried to make the point that what we're allowed to do as liberals, if we are liberals, is to say that John Locke said and we're able to condemn those things. But except the rest of what he said, the bits that we like, we were able to say that The bits that we don't, we're able to say that they're bad ideas, whereas you can't do the same. You can't say that part You have to say that it's all good. You have to believe that it is of God as recited to Mohammed, right? Muslims believe that it's unedited. So you can't do the same thing. You can't say, well, we'll take but we can do so to and don't worship because we don't take their So this is the point that was being made. Now let's see how the interaction goes. - John Locke said that (indistinct crosstalk) - The difference is that the things which our worldview are based upon, which are the philosophies of these men, we can say that those were wrong. John Locke said some - You're a nihilist how can you say anything - [Alex] The difference The difference is- - No, you can't say that you're wrong. - I actually can and- - [Mohammed] You don't believe in- - The difference is that - [Mohammed] No, you can't do that. - When there is something immoral- - [Mohammed] You don't believe in- - When there is something When there is something immoral who founded the worldview and something else that no longer applies, was wrong. - [Mohammed] Can you prove it was wrong? - We can say that we disagree with what he had to say. it was wrong on your world view? - We can say that we disagree with what he had to say. an active claim. - You can't do the same thing. - You're making an active claim- - When there's immoralities in the Quran, you can't make the same... Look we have just allowed you to speak. And there were many times and asked you similar questions and you're making a tu quoque fallacy and you're smart enough to know it. As I say, I can hardly without being consistently interrupted. But the point that to interject with is saying, well, how can you say about the atheist clause because you believe You believe in moral nihilism. Firstly, he misunderstands what and nihilism as it's that we have. But also he's committing He's committing the tu quoque fallacy which is to say, it's It's kind of someone saying, Oh, well you can't do this either, right? 'Cause my criticism was that, look, there are things and in the Sunnah of the such as the prophet Mohammed's, I mentioned in my opening statement, the prophet Mohammed's marriage to Aisha who was six years old at the time, although Mohammed was in his 40s, and I say look, you can't That this part was wrong. But the rest of it's fine And then Mohammed Hijab interjects by saying, but how can you say it's wrong? It's like look, we're You're saying this objective morality. And you're saying that this So you have to show how those You have to show that And his point was to say, but you can't talk about morality because you don't believe So what? I'm saying that you do and So you have to show This is a point that seems You can't do the same thing. - [Mohammed] No, you can't do that. - When there is something immoral- - [Mohammed] We don't believe in- - When there is something when there is something immoral that comes from somebody that we believe in and that he said that no - [Mohammed] Can you prove it was wrong? - We can say that we disagree with what he had to say. it was wrong on your world view? - We can say that we disagree - You're making an active claim - You can't do the same thing. Mohammed Hijab is acting This is evidence of his as referenced by Patrick, the moderator, a moment ago in the debate. He's used to just kind of talking just interjecting, just This is a debate, not an interview, right? I'm not here to listen to you talk. And when I try and respond, and tell me what I think and then respond to This isn't how debates work, okay. I'm trying to make a point that John Locke can be but Mohammed can't be That's the point I'm making. And what's your response? How can you say anything's wrong? You're a moral nihilist. Besides the point, Mohammed Hijab, listen to what I'm saying Maybe that way you'll stop Stop misrepresenting what I'm saying and stop embarrassing Look, we've just allowed you to speak. And there were many times and ask you similar questions and you're making a tu quoque fallacy and you're smart enough to know it. You can't just turn around and say that- - Just answer the question. - For being a moral nihilist, especially since I'm not one anymore. - [Mohammed] Oh, you've - Yes- - [Mohammed] So you've retracted - Oh, Jesus Christ. Okay, so what's happened here is that when I started I made videos saying that I wasn't sure that morality existed without God. I was a moral nihilist Then I went through a long period of years of kind of discussing moral philosophy with various people on podcasts And my moral philosophy shifted. And you can see that trend happen culminating in a podcast I In other words, like quite I explored moral philosophy So Mohammed Hijab says, I say, I'm not a moral nihilist anymore. You're talking about something And what does he say? - [Mohammed] Oh you've - Yes- - [Mohammed] So you retract - Oh, so you retract that too. So retract it. I changed my mind over And you are holding me to a belief that I held three years ago. And when I say Mohammed you since then. You're saying that I'm retracting it. That would be like if a Muslim and then became a Muslim, And I said, Oh, but you And he goes no, but I've changed my mind about that obviously. And I went, ah, so, so you retract it, you retract your point, ah, debate over. Like, come on. This is honestly ridiculous. And it bemuses me that 700,000 can't see through this. I just really let that sink in, okay? Like I used to believe something years ago and then explored philosophy And when I explained to Mohammed Hijab that I don't believe what He says, ah, so you retracted. What is this etiquette? - [Mohammed] Oh, you've changed your mind? - Yes. - [Mohammed] So you retract - What statement? - The one that you said - What statement indeed? What statement are you talking about? You're not talking about a statement. You're talking about a broad philosophy that I used to believe in, Again, I just feel as - My question is, he's made it very clear that this man does not Why and how can you say this in one breath and then starting passing moral judgments which are based on liberalism. - I can do it because you've You think that I'm a moral nihilist and moral nihilism, by the way, is the belief that moral They don't make sense. They don't have truth value, right? I don't believe that. And you're saying, how in moral nihilism with I don't have to, because I don't believe Even if I used to three years ago and me changing my mind on that, it's not a retraction, right? You can sit there all you like and say, how can you square this? But again, if I was debating with someone who used to be an atheist I could sit there and go, this man has made very that he's an atheist. How can he square this The answer is he changed his mind, right? Don't debate my quote Debate me. I'm right there in front of you. You have the opportunity and engage with it. But instead you're more interested in engaging with worldviews I mean, congratulations. What a great job. - All right, so Mill in chapter four of his book on utilitarianism, he actually gave us an what he called the principle of utility. - Oh, this is fun as well. Here's an example of a that he's mistaken on something and holding on to the very last moment until he genuinely just That he's correct. That I am wrong. Here's an example. - And through that, he and how when you see that for someone, then that is an evidence that is something which ought to be done. - [Alex] Okay- - Now he, excuse, excuse me. - Oh, Mohammed Hijab, I'm really sorry that I I'll try not to do it again. I know that that's a really The title of that chapter, there was a reason why is not the proof of utilitarianism. - [Mohammed] It is. - It is not. The title of that chapter- - [Mohammed] Hold on, - The title of that chapter is &quot;The kinds of proofs to which - [Mohammed] No, no, hold on. The title of the chapter is - It's not. - [Mohammed] Get the book. - You can check it now. It is &quot;The types of proof &quot;that utilitarianism is susceptible to. - John Stuart Mill wrote the book himself. You can get the copy from Waterstones now. Everyone in the audience can Google it. Yes, it's actually the title is &quot;Proof of utilitarian... Chapter four. - Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. The title of that chapter is- - [Mohammed] Hold on, - The title of that chapter is &quot;The kinds of proofs to which - [Mohammed] No, no, hold on. - I think the reason that so fiercely is because he's begun to lecture And so it's obviously and wants to think he understands because he gives lectures And to say that John Stuart To say that John Stuart Mill &quot;Proof of utilitarianism&quot; but to misunderstand his point, right? The whole point of that chapter is to show that you can't You can't prove it in the same way that you can't prove that just because an object is visible that it's therefore there, that because you can see it He just says that there that we just kind of Like that if something's visible, that if we see something and he says that same kind that if we desire pleasure then pleasure is desirable, right? But the point is this can't be proved. You can only talk about to which the principle of That's the name of the chapter. So when Mohammed Hijab gets this wrong, he's misunderstood what not just done something so Because that doesn't matter. Whatever, you misquoted the title. But either way, whether it matters or not, Mohammed Hijab fiercely that I'm wrong about this so we can go to Waterstones right now, buy a copy of the book and find out. Luckily we didn't have to because the audience members And lo and behold I was right. And this is what happened. - Okay, has anyone got utilitarianism, (indistinct crosstalk) I'm not right? - Hold on, did you see that? We'll watch this again. Notice what happened, right? Everyone's kind of talking over each other and Mohammed Hijab, points and kind of goes, Oh, you've got it up. You Googled it. And finds out that he was wrong and says, Oh, you guys, okay, fair enough. Yeah, no, I was wrong about that, except no, of course he doesn't. He just kind of pretends as but because obviously none noticed that happening. 'cause we were too busy And so it kind of goes unnoticed. Mohammed Hijab goes, so you looked it up. Oh, I'm wrong, am I? Okay, and just turns his head away. Watch it again. - Okay, has anyone got &quot;Utilitarianism&quot; (indistinct crosstalk) - [Alex] I know it's important - Abdullah- The reason why- - Either way, either way, look- - Either way, either way... What do you mean either way? You mean, okay, fine. I was wrong about that, but Don't get proved wrong. Like realize that none of us heard that you've got proved wrong and then go, it doesn't matter anyway, it You can only say it doesn't matter anyway, when you're right about this. You can say, look okay, you were wrong. But look, it's besides the point, right? That's when you can use You don't get to get proved wrong and then go ah, either way, It doesn't matter because Luckily, another audience member decides to interrupt us again because obviously they didn't and say that I was right. - Okay, so just to continue what I said- (audience member speaking indistinctly) - Is he right, (mumbling) Okay- - Ah, it seems Mohammed Hijab, the lion, the bastion of fierceful has been reduced to, Okay. Yeah, okay. You've been proved wrong. Now look, imagine ladies and gentlemen that I had misquoted the Quran, right? What would be the reaction? Mohammed Hijab, if I misquoted from what you've seen in this debate, just imagine what the reaction would be. If I just got it wrong and an audience member Alex, look, you're wrong about this. What would he have said? Compare that to what actually - Is he right? (mumbles) Okay, I can see that point of view. If he's right, I can see the point. - I don't care if you're The thing that matters is and the point that he was making is that you can't prove utilitarianism. I don't care about that is the point that he was making, right? I don't care if you've got the wording of the chapter title right. What I'm trying to say is that the fact that you've got the title wrong implies that you've And that's the important thing, right? Like this whole thing is ridiculous. Okay. So look, I don't want I actually have no idea how until I cut it down, because I've kind of been sat from the debate but this should give you an idea of why I'm just totally fed up. Totally fed up of hearing You want to know one of the worst parts? Is that Mohammed Hijab has It's got 700,000 views and they won't let me upload in full. And he's controlling the comments. So I've got half of saying you got owned, you got wrecked. And the worst part is they why isn't the video on your channel? Because you're scared to upload it. It is because brother in the debate. No, they won't let me upload the footage. Believe me, I have asked, I've been on Twitter asking Mohammed Hijab and iERA to grant me permission Now, by the time this video goes out, maybe they will have done. They've been ignoring me so if they haven't granted that permission then I implore you to ask I'll leave a link in the where you can go to the contact page and just ask them. I'm not asking you to spam them. Don't go and do that kind of thing. I just mean if you want to see this debate with the comment section actually open, where people are able to discuss it, then go and ask them as I'm asking them. And hopefully if we petition them enough they'll let me upload the footage. Until that happens, this will have to do. So look, to recap, not properly crediting the which by the way, I so that they could have put in the title instead of which wouldn't have got as many clicks. Maybe, but 700,000 views on a video that's controlling comments I mean, let's not forget that Edited in footage. Remember a second ago, I said, imagine what would happen Well, Mohammed Hijab It surprises me, in fact, that when he misquoted John Stuart Mill he didn't just edit in a bit of him getting it right. Like why not? You did it when you misquoted Editing in footage. Imagine if this were the other way around. Imagine if I filmed the debate and imagine if I uploaded it to my channel and I controlled the comments, didn't credit them properly, edited the video. So I edited in myself saying and did so obviously. Imagine I also misquoted them, saying quotes that simply don't exist. And also misquoted the Quran, was proved by an audience and just kind of brushed it aside. Imagine I did all of these things. And then not only that, when uploading it with all and misrepresentations and manipulations, then had the audacity to say look, I'm not going to let but you can upload this specified bit as long as you don't edit it, as long as you credit me properly, as long as you make sure that and not held for review. Give me a break. Again, I want to press that as far as I can see, with Abdullah, who seemed to me perfectly as I said earlier, as well as Colin Brewer, who I And haven't spoken to since. I don't know who he is, I Nothing to do with them. This is about misrepresentation. This is about controlling comments. This is about editing I still just can't get over that. All I'm asking is that to upload the debate to my channel too, and admits his mistakes. When Mohammed Hijab debated David Wood, which is a fantastic debate by the way, just demonstrating how good of a debater Mohammed Hijab can be when It's fantastic. And at one point he says to David Wood, look, you've misrepresented Islam. You've made fun of Islam. You've mocked Islam. If you apologize today, I've shown you why you're wrong. I've shown you why you're wrong, and if you apologize then I'll forgive you. I'll have no problem with you. I'm offering you the same If you accept the points I'm making, if you accept that you misquoted me. If you explain why you edited the video, if you explain why you were and stop doing so, then I'll But until then I'm afraid to say that I or the work that you're doing. So I think that just about covers it. Ladies and gentlemen, I of either iERA or Mohammed And I'll be interested to these points. As far as I can see, the points that I've They seem to just be truisms. I may be mistaken on some and if I am, I want to know about it. Even if they don't respond, if you think I've made a My comment section is of course open, but yeah, this isn't the I really wanted to make, but I felt it was necessary. So thank you for watching. Thank you for being here. Do go and watch the original debate and see for yourself the kind just seeping its way I want to thank, as always, who've made all of this The microphone I'm using, the the screen I'm using, the lighting that I've got, the camera that I'm recording on. Everything is due to And if you want me to be able to continue to produce honest, open then do consider becoming a supporter. And a special thanks for all of the support over the past sort of few years. But look, that's the debate review, it has been long anticipated. I doubt this video will get to actually compete but hopefully at least you will know better. So thank you for watching as do be sure to follow me on social media and I'll see you in the next one. (swooshing sound)