It is said there was a time when the citizens Greece. After all, they shared a common culture, language, no way of being superior in anything. Herodotus even says Spartans were the worst That is of course, until Sparta came under It was he who supposedly came up with the Agoge, a system of education and training Most Greek cities also had a similar system so revolutionary for the time, that it allowed meet them in the field, and in their prime, one hundred and fifty years... In this video, we will reveal the fascinating system.. Before we begin though, a quick word from They are a premier streaming service offering You might have heard about The Great Courses and have more and better content to feed your Wondrium's documentaries have the answer and more! Their content is always well researched and field. We are currently watching &quot;Understanding Greek the engineering behind many interesting buildings I like this series because it offers a deeper gives a clear understanding of how devices Most screw pumps for example, could not operate had limited uses. Wondrium adds new topics to their platform learn something new! Click the link in the description if you want trial with Wondrium today! As Lycurgus gazed upon the lazy mediocre citizens in need of a different concept of upbringing. At the center of this idea was his belief are integral to a successful and functioning So his system was to be extended to every And though the girls were excluded from the they were still expected to perform the same as it was believed that both parents had to offspring. To our modern eyes, Lycurgus' system represents can't be replicated today - what would happen rest of the world and brought up through constant to struggle, with these being held as a social In theory, this would produce a perfect society to show respect, endure the struggles of life Now let us see how Lycurgus implemented his the intended results he wanted... For the boys, the system was divided into young adults. The first category was very similar in idea Young Spartans would leave their families and sport. Other Greek city states had a similar system, their children. The Spartan system, on the other hand, was to be in charge of the boys as their paidonomos, This highly important role of bringing up to those who were eligible for election to It was the job of the Supervisor to make sure disciplined, and accustomed to extensive physical Most importantly though, as the writer Plutarch Obedience. The supervisor was given power to punish the group of older boys with whips to enforce And to make sure the boys were never left to take on his role when he wasn't around appropriate. And yes, Citizens were also allowed to punish For these reasons, the boys were accustomed spoke when spoken to. Xenophon even writes that the boys would always anyone. This instillment of heavy discipline and respect When the boys of other Greek cities became and personal teachers into the world, and Spartan teenagers however, only entered into Lycurgus recognised that it was in this age boys are the most adventurous and troublesome. In keeping with his system, he enforced even They were to have only one cloak to stay warm their feet. Lycurgus believed that if their feet were and jump higher than anyone in footwear... At this age, they were taught to fight with under the rhythm of music. These silent marches would be used as a psychological the discipline to achieve this, and it would emotionless and confident army face off against Interestingly, collective dancing, known as These war dances were essentially repetitive which would strengthen countless muscles in and cohesion. As you can probably tell by now, Spartan training of any sort. Instead, it was aimed at improving speed, So we could expect the average Spartan body and lean, carrying just enough weight and Complementing this point is the fact that were always hungry to some degree. Xenophon explains it was to encourage them But, if they were caught stealing, they received but for being caught doing it... This was all part of the second stage of their and had a high resistance to hunger and pain. Even their resistance to the cold was constantly of the Eurotas river, under the concrete opinion The recurring theme in Lycurgus' system youths was to make them more self-controlled It made the boys more contempt and indifferent possessions. This was in hopes that when a difficult situation would be more likely to recover and care for who were accustomed to being provided with To further discipline them, they were ordered, their cloak, walk silently, and keep their Xenophon even says you would be more likely its eyes than them, who would reserve their When the boys grew into young men, Lycurgus because he believed they were the city's He especially focussed on bringing out their he believed this was the best way to have abilities. In today's world, this can be seen in professional them for the purpose of war. Xenophon explains how he did this: Out of all the young men, he would assign 100 among themselves to be in their team. The 3 leaders would also have to give a reason Then, these leaders and their chosen groups battles against the very men they rejected. This resulted in a lot of competition, as belonged there, and each rejected one wanted We are told the contests that ensued were to the limit for victory. Such competition even resulted in fist fights to be separated and punished to remind each be above their obedience to the law... We can imagine that their contests would extend the groups stand side by side, each would last to flee... Unlike with the recruitment of the Roman legions, strength, it can be said that each Spartan, they enter adulthood. And anyone who was slightly shorter or slimmer vigor.. Lycurgus' system made sure that EVERY citizen arose.. When the men grew out of their young adulthood, but Lycurgus ensured through social norms of excellence carried on. For example, hunting remained the most popular the military hardships and gave them an urge Marriage was also a motivator, as only when allowed to marry and have children, as Lycurgus offspring. He took it even further by making it frowned as it would affect their competitive spirit. The last social norm, and by far the most Anyone who fled from a battle was subject of life. In any gathering, they would have to give In the streets, they would have to give way they would have to raise the women, and were their own. On top of this, they would have to pay a fee and could be beaten if they ever tried to And so, cowards had to endure the most dishonorable in battle than take their place... Do you think Lycurgus' system achieved his or were his methods a bit excessive and brutal? Let us know in the comments below! And if you think the Spartans were tough, legionaries, who would eventually conquer And let us know which ancient training program Don't forget to subscribe and consider joining that makes these videos possible. I hope to see you all in the next one!