Here, the past is not dead, but very much alive. numbered 10 million souls 3 millennia old. and built their colonial empire These two universes therefore merged nevertheless preserving the cultural heritage Here, the past is not dead, but very much alive. Mayans, Aztecs: these groups left Everywhere you look, the signs urban planning, social model, philosophy, In the 10th millennium BC, by tribes Siberians passing Here, the past is not dead, but very much alive. the Spanish Conquest, local populations agriculture, And if these peoples ignored the wheel, they were masters of mathematics, The first villages founded by way in various places to The arrival of Europeans in the 16th century sounded the seemed to mark the end of a world. ancient civilizations still survive Here, the past is not dead, but very much alive. development in Central America that is to say prior to the arrival of Cortes. Belize, El Salvador and western Honduras. notable civilizations developed there mainly without forgetting the state of Mexico, home to the Teotihuacan and the remains of the Aztec capital A first plane dive over the capital Indeed, apart from the dizziness of landing, of Mexico which, since its founding in 1325, seems to have Today, some 20 million megacity. Which guarantees it a place on It would be easy to see in the contours mimicry of the powerful American neighbor. country which has synthesized the numerous legacies The modernism of the architecture of its capital above all a means for Mexico to As for example with the civilization 40 km from Mexico fascinate with their The organization of this city, dating from the pre-Hispanic ancestors of the Mexicans Indeed, Teotihuacan at its peak had more than inhabitants, making it the The rapid development of mainly due to a major social event. from the peoples who already lived here, however, southeast of the Mexico Basin, many peoples It is therefore basically this exodus which of the capital Teotihuacan. We know an area of more than twenty square kilometers. It is also a rural exodus following during the Second World War which What we call today "greater Mexico" The Teotihuacan plan is characterized The north-south axis is made up of the Alley of the The crossroads it forms with the indicates the center of the city. area of 22 km2 and had around important city on the American continent It was divided into four sectors because major perpendicular axes: an east-west axis As in all Mesoamerican cities, relation to the cardinal points and Teotihuacan The layout of the city can be read as whatever their size, are organized in relation is a deviation of 16deg northeast. All the found at all levels of the city. major perpendicular axes dividing of most American cities. Insurgentes Avenue, 50 km long, which However, the elements visible the two main axes are exclusively There, on the site of the citadel - the Feathered Serpent, Quetzalcoatl, whose facades were linked to fertility, harvests, abundance related to hydraulic and agricultural systems. were once covered with of stucco bound with quartz powder, Some remains of this decoration, where show motifs of mythological scenes. which had their The colors were obtained from surrounding area. They mixed them so that they It is said that the color green symbolizes precious things. As for red, it represents Colors were the main The colors green and red have always had They were the most striking colors feathers had more value than Even if it is an eagle which appears in the these two colors should not be foreign. the silhouettes of the two pyramids The Pyramid of the Moon, the smallest, and the its seventy meters in height. construction which strikes the visitor. the use of talud-tablero. which is found on all the platforms of the embankment giving the This system surely had a However, it is still part The Pyramid of the Sun was built above a of emergence" of great mythological value. which is located below the pyramid of the apparently linked to the cardinal points. This is the pyramid was built. It is considered to be They revere her as they revere the man came. At the end of humanity, everything descends into the The origin and end of the world would therefore be for According to them, existence and time like astral movements. therefore be based not on the line but on a The gods there therefore created space: of space and especially the center of the world. villages in the form of a tree, the Ceiba, and Milky Way and extends in the sky to a This space...so this act of creation is therefore followed by the creation of time _ time by the stars which will rotate around this These cycles could repeat themselves endlessly. not infinity but the cycle. of the sun is at the zenith, for The rest of the solar course end in the underworld, The repetitive cycles of creation and to remind humans of the importance This worldview testifies to the At the head of the Mayan pantheon is human sacrifices - as evidenced by the Popol-Vuh. each period of 52 years brought the The deities and other forces of creation a merciless battle in the mortal universe determining Pre-Hispanic civilizations have fatalism linked to a philosophy based on which exceed them and which they must appease. those of the Mayan civilization Calculations of the concordance between the in the tropics, results almost the margin of error being only 19 minutes. a calendar that could be called 365-day calendar, which was different from the agricultural, etc. calendar of 260 days. So these and for a day number and name _ name and day of the other calendar, corresponded to 52 calendars of 365 days century in certain cultures, for example of the of attached sheaf, which corresponded to a day of the year, we put out all we went into the fields and we waited for could end after a period of 52 years. southern Mexico and the Mayan highlands down the 260 days for acts Mayan priest-astronomers looked for complex movements of the sun, stars and and gnomons measuring the shadows cast. astronomy. It is a simple The length of the shadow cast makes it possible to the direction of the shadow giving its azimuth. Using this device, astronomers made complex movements of Venus and other stars. they made learned calculations and noted them drew up calendars to record the Pre-Hispanic civilizations built they aligned important structures with The type of architecture found like Mayan city of the Yucatan Peninsula, is celestial bodies like the Pleiades and Venus. the sun's rays penetrated through illuminating its interior walls. also found at Chichen Itza. gathered there every year to observe the magic called the Castillo and dedicated to Quetzalcoatl, a god During the winter and autumnal equinoxes, and seems to make it undulate from the top of the The connections between astrology and At Chichen Itza, for example, we have a that is to say where you will find 91 steps you have 364 steps in total on the 4 sides and the is on the last day of the year, the 365 days. there are 13 and 13 panels on each side of The whole corresponds to 52 years of the calendar, in the very building, the Castillo, at Chichen Itza many areas of pre-Hispanic thought. circular system and not to the in the center, not at the top. social stratification was reflected in the type Those called "palaces while the peasants resided scattered habitats built of perishable materials. the workers, peasants and servants who has not changed much. The layout of rings whose constructions diminished in Studies on the structure of the habitat show Mesoamerican civilizations like those of the Maya are Archeology has shown that the districts district of lapidaries, who worked This urban model, which was quite simple, founded on a patrilineal family organization Most economic activity The family remains a fundamental value simple nuclear family - the father, the mother where solidarity between its members is in full play. but his wife in fact holds the essential role In Mexico, the family includes a grandparents, uncles and aunts, that is to say the godfathers of the children This extended family makes it possible to compensate for the If in the urban classes we prioritize working classes children are destined to Within the family unit the father to answer to anyone, spends his money as he wishes Despised by their husbands and often neglected, 20% of families are headed Mexican women will find their balance If average Mesoamerican society was small ruling elite, the high proportion of additional groups: artisans and merchants. at the heart of a trade network Artisans occupied a primordial place quantity of goods that they exported There were an infinite number of artisans manufactured products but also ideas. only portage or navigation in small quantities or over short distances. only concern luxury products, The economic situation was therefore stable, This fragile balance is still artisans is today mainly subject This is the case for obsidian cutters who near archaeological sites. very thick lava flows rich flow having been very rapid, the It is one of only two is considered a semi-precious stone. jewelry and religious objects were also made. in the shape of blades, but also are spectacular and eccentric objects Obsidian work is still alive in Today craftsmen make objects ancestral repertoire which requires a perfect knowledge If the tools are different, the process The Lowlands have raw blocks of obsidian are transformed into almost spherical cores. A skillfully applied pressure with a razor-sharp blades from the core. stone and its hardness allow the But because it is breakable, obsidian is Sand, emery and other substances have been used Polishing gives a distinctly As for jade, highly prized by the ancient Maya, it continues to constitute the Other crafts still retain the imprint of pottery, whose history on the From its birth in the ancient preclassic period, technical and artistic level, without the infancy and It was probably imported from As in the entire continent, The containers were shaped with a coil on Even if today, most are directly inspired by the Mayan technique. fresh clay. It is obtained by rolling a piece Hands apply The coils stacked, welded When the earth is soft, each simply pushing earth towards the previous one. that a pot widens or shrinks. carrying political or religious iconography, Several dozen styles are now workshops; others are of The cultivation and transformation of agave into Cortesian civilizations in Mexico. of this textile which is used in the manufacture The origin of its name comes from the town of Sisal It was from the port of this city that The tough fibers are extracted from the leaves by mechanical means then They are used for rope, furnishings and of course for the During the prosperous period, sisal plants was carried out under the control The chimneys of these large estates Yucatan. it is in this region, at permanence is felt most strongly. to the hostile environment of the Yucatan was The Yucatan is a vast with a line of gentle hills to the northeast. average of 460mm of annual precipitation. concentrates in The flora is not very varied with thorn trees, On these arid lands, the marked minds with its strength of to an environment refusing human settlement. small, due in particular to the However, the pre-Hispanic genius was able to original agricultural techniques. agriculture. It's stone on the surface other years it didn't rain. And we had to sowing a few days before the rains, so to be able to tell people: start planting the grains We had additional ceremonies, for were intended to make it rain. The not die or the crops would not disappear. represented survival for these populations. and it was necessary to know accurately all the be able to know and predict the future. quickly exhausted the fields which could only be cultivated for be left fallow for more than ten years. however, made it possible to maintain even in areas that we would Each city therefore needed it could only feed a small population. Researchers believe that the system the bulk of agricultural practices as This system consists of clearing the The dry plants are burned around We plant using the coa - the digging stick After which the work consists of This system involves large areas therefore low population density. were very different from today. communities and a central structure or the milpas on a more complex, more live in small communities and farm And this is a very important point because it could number of people and resources The Mayan peoples of Yucatan have managed invasions and conquests, and many of they remain the best responses Medium and long distance trade as well as problems of transport was only carried out on the backs of men. weekly markets in the smallest village indicate Indians travel up to 80km per day The Mexican market is a noises and smells where everything is Manufactured products take fruit, vegetable and flower stalls. away and this is where the market The basis of the Mexican diet has hardly squash, pepper, beans, plants domesticated from 4500 BC. what we call the Mesoamerican triad, squash and pepper. This dietary triad The agriculture of the Mexico basin Aztec domination gave the Old World corn, around fifty species of beans, tomatl in maya, potatoes, To this non-exhaustive list, we must add known under the name &quot;cocoa&quot; or &quot;chocolate&quot; . always been linked to corn: it is Many preparations dating from the The tortilla is the most popular. as a plate and even as a place setting. in Mexican society show the attachment all the stronger as the roots saw the unthinkable, the invasion of another world. Mexican society advance at the pace of