Sometimes in science, the story of HOW we learned In the case of gamma-ray bursts, it's kinda But of all the plotlines in astronomy, It begins, quite literally, in the grip of end. What true story ever does? But it does lead occurring in the Universe, events which, paradoxically After World War II, the allies that were the Socialist Republic had gone their separate enemy, but that war was done, and a newer, sworn enemies themselves, each determined Both sides had nuclear weapons, so this downfall was a terrifying likelihood, taken very seriously Both sides were testing nukes at every available explosive yield. At the same time, both factions using satellites to spy on each other. And platforms from which to launch nuclear weapons; instead of needing the better part of an hour Fear of this, as much as anything else, drove in 1963, forbidding the testing or use of were the Soviet Union and the United States. Of course, neither side trusted the other. -- perhaps blowing up nukes on the far side -- the US launched a series of satellites flash of gamma rays, the highest energy form to detect that high-energy pulse. Two scientists, Roy Olsen and Ray Klebesadel, They laboriously combed through the observations, a nuke. Signal after signal turned out to their first hit: a flash of gamma rays seen But there was one problem -- whatever caused blast. The amount of gamma radiation and how a nuclear weapon, and the July 2 event looked a strong, sharp peak of emission lasting less pulse lasting for several more seconds. A activity that day that could generate gamma Over time, more and more of these mysterious techniques got better, it was found that they nor from nearby space; that is, Earth orbit. Whatever these bursts were, they were originating DEEP SPACE. Dun dun dunnn. In 1973 Olsen and Klebasadel went public, were intrigued. What could cause these gamma-ray takes incredibly violent events: Exploding But these bursts weren't obviously associated Making it worse, gamma-ray bursts -- let's lasting mere seconds or minutes, making it It took weeks or months after the event to then the uncertainties were huge. At the time, and couldn't pinpoint directions well at and other objects nearby were candidate progenitors of It's like telling someone you dropped a they ask you where you dropped it, you reply, As more of these objects were found, it was points in the sky, and that itself was a problem. on neutron stars (which was one possible hypothesis) of the Milky Way than above it. Pretty much the plane of the galaxy, where all the massive neutron stars, then that's where we'd That meant GRBs were either VERY nearby - no they were coming from INCREDIBLY far away, affecting the distribution! We didn't see for example, so they'd have to be coming the Universe! Neither explanation made sense, that could generate bursts that were close creating a burst of gamma rays from billions It was the single most enduring mystery in astronomy response time, so that any fading "afterglow" from In 1997, that hope became reality. The Dutch-Italian before, designed in part to look for transient their positions. In '97, it detected a gamma-ray location for it on the sky. Within hours, and for the first time saw the fading afterglow Astronomers were stunned: The burst was clearly galaxy. Another, different GRB was detected When the distance to that galaxy was found, staggering SIX BILLION LIGHT YEARS AWAY. The mystery was over, but it was replaced INCREDIBLY far away. But that meant they must such a catastrophic explosion? When you need raw power, a good place to look cores of massive stars collapse and the stars their distance and brightness, even a supernova Think about THAT for a second: The most violent inadequate to explain the ferocity of a gamma-ray Unless... Astronomers came up with an idea: What if were focused somehow? In a supernova, the energy gets flung out If instead, that energy could be collected and We now understand this to indeed be the case. forming a black hole, the material just outSIDE hot swirling maelstrom called an accretion (and from the black hole) coil around, wound up and down out of the disk and away from entirely clear, but this launches twin beams of The amount of energy in the beams is mind-crushing, event itself! They scream away from the black through the star, blasting away across space. that we can detect them from BILLIONS of light The supernova explosion is no small thing with more energy than a normal supernova. They're Coooooool. And you don't always need fancy equipment a GRB erupted into view, and its distance years from Earth. Despite that ridiculous happened to be looking at that part of the Aaaah! It's thought that in this case, the is why it got so bright. Good thing it was And that explains gamma-ray bursts... well, there are two kinds. When you look at the divide pretty well into two groups: Ones that hypernovae, and ones that are much more rapid. milliseconds: Way too fast to be from core collapse But what else could be as soul-crushingly Turns out, it's two neutron stars crashing Imagine two massive stars born together as as does the other, leaving two neutron stars like this forever if it weren't for a subtle Theory of Relativity: Massive objects revolving energy by radiating away gravitational waves, itself. I know, it's weird -- relativity leak in the orbits, very gradually dropping Over billions of years, the two stars draw around each other. Finally, they merge in is more than 2.8 times that of the Sun they'll What happens next is as bizarre as it is awesome. a black hole orbited by ultra-dense debris neutron-star-stuff. This then mimics what disk, heated to ridiculous temperatures, blasting the material is more compact, the gamma ray In case you're wondering, yes, this is precisely me to this week's Focus On. If GRBs are so explosive we can see them what would happen if one were nearby? Well, not good things. I already talked about dangers from GRBs are about the same. However, from much farther away: A supernova has to hurt us, but a GRB can be over 7000 light But there's an upside to those beams: if the beam is aimed right at us. That significantly As it happens, there ARE two stars that could within that danger zone: Eta Carinae, and edge of that distance limit, so they it doesn't look like either of them is aimed at us. As far as we know, we're safe from hypernova-induced neutron stars, either. It's possible they'd SO rare that it's incredibly unlikely that any are nearby. Over the years, more space observatories have most important observatory is NASA's Swift, from a burst, then swing rapidly into action at the area, precisely locating the burst. so that more telescopes on the ground can detected over 900 GRBs. The rapid response data of the bursts, and since the launch of has grown by leaps and bounds. Now, with our fleet of satellites scanning day. And remember - we only see them when most of them, so the actual rate of GRBs is hundreds happening every day, somewhere in Gamma-ray bursts are truly one of nature's energetic explosions the Universe is capable their discovery to what actually powers them In fact, when you think about it, here's time we see one, we're witnessing a black Gamma-ray bursts are the birth cries of black Today you learned that gamma-ray bursts were the US and USSR were worried about the other Bursts come in two rough varieties: Long and stars exploding, sending out twin beams of neutron stars. Both kinds are so energetic and both are also the birth announcements Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel to catch even more awesome Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, edited Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.