If I was to host a hypothetical the most evil serial killer of all The safe money would be on history's homicidal Jeffery Dahmer. But if you had to bet your entire lot worse than back the man often referred to During a reign of sheer terror in Chicago to have brutally murdered more than 200 Many of his victims met their maker in a house castle. Built to a labyrinthine plan that only was full of secret passages, trap doors, and hundreds of innocent people to this morbid mansion in the most horrific ways imaginable, some were and sold to medical schools as skeletons, and When you take into account the volume and sheer anyone can rival HH Holmes for the title of the ...but there's a catch. You see, almost nothing I've told you about Don't get me wrong, I didn't just make it up. the castle of death, the dissections and record. The staggeringly gory story encyclopaedia entries, and multiple documentaries. Which makes it all the more strange This is the confusing tale of HH Holmes, Holmes was born under the rather less enigmatic May 1861 in the town of Gilmanton, New Hampshire. Some sources claim he had an abusive alcoholic was to torture the local wildlife, but those Mudgett married at the age of just 17 to the though since he never bothered actually divorcing any of them we can add bigamy to Mudgett was never a particularly strong student, degree from the University of Michigan, and it crimes. Despite his reputation as one of Mudgett's first felonious forays didn't In those days, corpses were a sold on the black market to medical schools for happy to dig up the deceased from the local ...Or at least, that's what several sources claim. bodysnatcher, but that probably shouldn't come as but if I was in the business of selling We *do* know that body snatching was and Michigan university was a bit of a hotspot. that after his execution some years later, Holmes up his remains that he asked to be buried in So yeah, there's a fair chance this After graduating in 1884, Mudgett worked gaining a reputation as a bit of Two years later he moved to Chicago, where pseudonym of Dr. Henry Howard Holmes - HH the name change was designed to stop the various I'm guessing he was probably also just a bit sick According to the traditional tale, on arriving where he eventually murdered his boss In truth, Mudgett - well, Holmes - bought being Holmes' victims, the previous a fact that's proven by the dates on their Between the pharmacy and a growing list becoming a wealthy man. So he did what any of an empty plot of land and started work on a This grand building you see before you, known Now, if you happen to be especially observant, 'castle' looks suspiciously like a fairly And it turns out there's a pretty good was. There were shops on the ground floor storey in 1892 which he planned to use In 1893 Chicago played host to a World's Fair 27 million visitors. Probably the most famous is that he built his murder castle to take In the era before people posted 450 social media - their friends and relatives often had little So, according to the story, Holmes built his numbers of hard-to-trace World's Fair visitors That all sounds fairly logical - well, if you're started building his 'castle' several years before Admittedly work on the third floor did roughly but we can be fairly certain he didn't and dismemberment because the hotel Several people were indeed murdered on the whole 'murder castle' concept is total nonsense. don't show any secret passageways, trap doors, or simply wasn't big enough to have enclosed Almost all these wild stories came from the justice a few years later. It might sound the details of the case so incredibly wrong, the heyday of what's now known as yellow newspapers just made everything up to sell But while there's no evidence the building it *was* used as the base of operations for a To put it simply, if HH Holmes believed he was already doing it. During his criminal stolen horses, bought expensive items on credit and defrauded a wide variety of insurance But while he wasn't the mass murdering Holmes was still a killer - and a pretty that he murdered 4 people, and there's a The first is thought to have been Julia Connor, Holmes and Julia started an affair in he quite understandably quit his job Julia and her daughter Pearl went We don't know for sure what happened to them, but and that she'd died when he attempted to assumed he killed Pearl because she knew too death and therefore represented a dangerous but the body of a girl of about Pearl's age 5 months after Julia and Pearl went missing, circumstances - he started a relationship with one suddenly went missing. Once again, Holmes In retrospect that man probably The following year two more women Minnie and Nannie Williams. As with all the thought Holmes scammed them out of some property, go to the police. Much like Julia Connor and There are plenty more stories about people turning and several of them are quite possibly true. on the ground and it's likely we'll never though there's zero chance it was By 1894, he'd swindled (and murdered) so many best to move on. He travelled first to Fort law finally caught up with him. Considering he was almost laughable that Holmes was jailed for the Remarkably it was his first stint in jail, his brief incarceration kicked eventually lead to him being hanged for While in jail, Holmes met a man better known as the Handsome Bandit. Handsome serving 25 years in the slammer for train robbery. soon struck up a friendship, and between them they Holmes was going to fake his own death. If you're wondering how pretending to die I've got two words for you: Life Insurance. Holmes was bailed not long afterwards and don't know exactly how he staged his own death, but we do know the insurance company Holmes was undeterred. He knew he could pull little more convincing. But faking your Elden ring - you can't keep trying over over.... again. And that meant Holmes willing to fake his own death in return That man was his long time business Benjamin Pitezel, and their Step 1: Take out a fat life Step 2: Get hold of a dead body Step 3: Blow said body up in a planned explosion, making sure it gets good and burned in the Step 4: Report the death Step 5: ...Profit The only question was, how to make sure the ruse. Holmes had already discovered just how gave him an idea - what if he didn't As you've probably already guessed, Holmes simply murdered Benjamin Pitezel Pitezel's wife had been in on the scam from file the claim with the insurance firm - but crossed. She went through the entire claims remains of her dearly beloved - all while Of course, there was only so long that Mrs Pitezel and her children were going to But Holmes wasn't worried - by professional arsehole he had plenty Along with Benjamin, to keep his secret safe Two of the girls - Alice and Nellie - were with asphyxiating gas, while one of the boys - The Pitezel family killings are the only Holmes did he confess to the crimes after his of how and where they took place, and he also Thankfully, those were the final murders HH Because his old prison pal the Handsome It turns out Holmes had bragged about up with Handsome Hedgepeth, and the train to buy himself an early release. He Holmes was arrested in Boston on the 17th of a relative lack of evidence meant he was tried But that alone was more than enough to see him HH Holmes was hanged. When the trap was left twitching at the end of the rope for a full As I've already mentioned, we have some highly for many of the more outrageous but it's worth pointing out that Holmes himself Before his death, Holmes admitted to delivered straight from the homicidal solid evidence. But things were never that did Holmes' version of events contain he also claimed to have killed several people and several others who were known to have As for what his motive was for confessing as good as mine. Some people believe flames of his own legend before his death, the prosecution during his trial. Perhaps he Even now, almost 130 years after his death, Along with the widespread misinformation about theory claimed that Holmes didn't really die he pulled off one last trademark scam, someone else to 'take the fall' in his place. his remains were exhumed from their Thankfully, genetic testing proved conclusively Thanks for watching.