Some said Tony Spilotro was a home loving husband - The image of Tony being a polite, caring, family man, benevolent, that's bullshit. Tony Spilotro was, in fact, suspected by the FBI of over 20 murders. - Tony Spilotro was a cold-blooded killer. As Las Vegas Spilotro hit whoever his Anyone, anytime, any place. - I believe Tony was mental. He was animalistic. - He hung a man on a meat hook. - I think he got pleasure For years the but he bought policemen, owned He got away with murder for over 20 years. - To find that Tony Spilotro was going to be released back onto This is the of this notorious Mafia not by his enemies, but by his friends. On the 15th of May, 1962, in Chicago, two men and a woman were Gangsters killing gangsters was common enough in the Windy City. For the police, it was routine. But the Mob was angry. This hit had not been authorized by the boss of the Chicago Mafia. - With organized crime, the violence is organized and controlled. They have very strict The dead and should have been off limits. - A soldier has a beef or he can't take it upon himself to punish that individual without getting Someone had broken the rules. And now they must be hunted down. For this job, the Chicago Mafia bosses turned to a young hoodlum. Although he stood just 5'5&quot;, his reputation for 25-year-old Tony Spilotro. His first task, find out who had done it. He learned that the two dead gangsters had beaten up a young Mob associate, Billy McCarthy, at a bar. Spilotro made inquiries minor mobster Frank Cullotta. Cullotta revealed that he'd supplied the guns for the unauthorized killing. But said he wasn't at the scene. Spilotro only agreed to if he told him who had pulled the trigger. The name Cullotta gave was Billy McCarthy. After Spilotro tracked McCarthy down, he wanted to ask him a question. Did he have an accomplice? McCarthy wouldn't talk. Then Spilotro tortured Still no name. Next, Spilotro put He tightened it. The pressure forced one out of its socket. Only then did Billy McCarthy The bodies of McCarthy and Miraglia were found a week later in But the FBI could find no evidence and no witnesses came forward in what became notorious It seemed Spilotro had got away with it. Little did he think that his would one day bring him down. In 1971 the Chicago for his success in this line of work. They sent their enforcer to Las Vegas. The desert town known as - This little town out in the desert was making tons of money for the Mob. For 25 had poured millions of dollars into building the lavish casino hotels that lined the Las Vegas strip. - Las Vegas was a cash cow for Chicago and for some other cities, The Mob weren't interested in a good floor show. They were in it for one thing. The only thing, money. The Chicago Mafia controlled some of the biggest hotel But gambling profits These shiny desert palaces They contained the Mob's most profitable and top secret racket, the skim. Cash received at a casino should be taken to a secure counting room and the amounts entered into the accounts. But the Mob run casinos in '70s Las Vegas creamed money off the or tax inspector even knew it existed. - It was nice. You sit in Chicago, have and somebody brings you a bag with $50,000 in it every month or so. It was nice. The Chicago with his tough guy reputation, was just what they needed One problem was that counters to palm a few dollars to This temptation will be curbed by Tony Spilotro's talent for violence. - He sort of went at it as though he were running a dive in Chicago. With the blackjacks and the and physical violence. The Mob might blab about what they But Tony Spilotro's murderous reputation guaranteed their silence. - If there was a hit it was Tony's responsibility, at the direction of those The Chicago at home in Las Vegas. And the neon-lit desert paradise was just perfect for a street - Tony Spilotro, when he got to Las Vegas, found out there was no other family in here operating a So he had a wide open city. He could do whatever he wanted. Spilotro to the armies of low paid workers And he played by big city Chicago rules. - Chicago had a reputation, In Chicago you missed one Missed two payments, a bullet. They were known for that everywhere. Spilotro also to pick pockets, mug tourists, Muggings and robberies became But just as his new career as a Las Vegas street the FBI got a chance to In April, 1973, Spilotro under investigation for murder. Instead of a life of luxury Spilotro was facing life in jail. He had to find a way out. So first, Spilotro killed a co-defendant he thought might damage his defense. Someone he'd known for 15 years. - Regarding friendship can only go so far, you know? And one has to follow orders. If one's given orders to kill a friend, friendship would have nothing These aren't nice people. But when the murder trial began, Chuckie Grimaldi gave The prosecuting attorney clearly remembers Spilotro. - Spilotro's demeanor in the courtroom was very businesslike, professional, didn't show emotion, very well dressed. And presented a quiet image, Even when shocked the jurors, Spilotro was unmoved. - When Chuckie testified involved grizzly details, he was shot, he was stabbed, he was kicked and beaten, he was threatened with castration, pieces of his flesh were cut off. There was no sense of ghastliness, at what was being said about a crime that he, Spilotro, No emotion at all. Grimaldi's detailed testimony clearly condemned Spilotro. But then Spilotro turned the tables on the prosecutor and the FBI. He told them something He had, he said, an alibi. Spilotro's brother, John, testified in court that shopping in a furniture store Even though 10 years the furniture store employees said they clearly The defense even produced a dated receipt to show to the jury. It seemed the Chicago Outfit had protected their man in - We could not break the alibi. We couldn't show it was The jury found - I was relatively That kept the image, so to speak, that some of these That was exasperating to a prosecutor. Tony Spilotro was a free man. Free to go back to his life in Las Vegas. By 1976, Tony Spilotro was and opened a new jewelry He made it the center bookmaking, and jewelry To help him expand even more, he later called in his old who had helped with the M&amp;M Cullotta's job was to recruit experienced, skilled thieves from and establish a first class burglary crew. They made a real impact. Known as the Hole in the Wall Gang, they left their signature all over town. - The Hole in the Wall Gang got their name because they would punch holes in residential houses to Spilotro was with little risk of prosecution. His chief ally was fear. When the police or the they found a strange - When someone comes &quot;We know where your children go to school. We know what your children do. Either you'll cooperate with us or something could happen to your kids.&quot; That's the threats that Fear was one Local politicians relied on As some of those were owned many politicians were in effect working to preserve the status quo. - These people realized was keeping these casinos running. And you couldn't blame 'em 'cause it was the lifeline of Las Vegas. Corruption was woven into the very fabric of Sin City. And this made stopping The one organization that the Las Vegas FBI, was To make things harder, the FBI also faced corruption in the Las Vegas Metropolitan - There was always tainted officers that were willing to - And they got perks out on the strip. They got jackets, gold and things like that to look the other way or not look at all. The FBI not to trust the Metro Police. Confidential information was - Anything that we would give to Metro would eventually get back So in 1977, the to take on Spilotro alone they including surveillance, electronic bugs and telephone wiretaps. FBI surveillance expert Emmett Michaels was one of a draft of new As head of the Technical it was his job to target organized crime and find out what they were up to. - They used to use They used to use places like the Stardust to conduct their meetings. To put in a bug where had to go into a room where The hunters Breaking and entering buildings at night, albeit with a court warrant. Not in a quest for cash or - It really requires an FBI agent to become a burglar, a good burglar, to be able to enter a plant a bug or a wiretap, and then be able to monitor that wiretap and obtain evidence of criminal activity. But with casinos a sly after hours operation was often impossible. To put in a bug, the agents had to face - The only way to go in was to go in dressed as maintenance people and put the bug in like they were working in the room. That way it didn't draw any attention. To get electronic the FBI also had to secretly the Gold Rush. This was no easier. - FBI agents had to physically climb up the telephone poles and do the connection. And while they were up there one of them triggered the alarm. And the next thing you know Metro responded to a break-in. Had Metro looked up the pole, they would've seen four which they didn't do, so we lucked on. Eventually, Agent in getting bugs into As they listened, their blood ran cold. They heard Detective Sergeant Joe Blasko and Sergeant Phil Leone of the identify FBI surveillance They gave Spilotro and his crew the names of undercover agents. They even named informants, Although Blasko and Leone were fired and charged for their actions, Metro's reputation was left in tatters. But one man was determined In 1978, a complacent Las when Police Commander John McCarthy was elected sheriff on an - We got an honest sheriff. That set the stage for good law enforcement Sheriff McCarthy c ompletely reorganized the force, promoting a swathe of over the heads of the old guard. At just 33, Kent Clifford was promoted to the rank of commander and put in charge of the Metro Police Intelligence Bureau. - My ultimate goal was to restore the integrity into the police department. It wasn't that they was But the Bureau itself was tainted and the only way I could clean it up was to clear everybody out. So I did. While Metro was preparing to bring the gangster also came under threat from a grand jury investigation In 1979, Las Vegas crook Jerry Lisner confessed to the Feds about his dealings with Cullotta and Spilotro. Lisner's testimony could lead to Spilotro facing trial and jail. Spilotro now applied the Mob rule, rats must be exterminated. He made sure he got the hit on Lisner authorized by Chicago. And told Frank Cullotta Cullotta had no silencer for his gun, and to reduce noise he decided to use half-charge ammunition. The hit did not go smoothly. - Frank Cullotta told The half-charge - They were having a difficult time dispatching Mr. Lisner. Cullotta into Lisner's head. Jerry Lisner's body was This most unprofessional of keeping Spilotro and Cullotta But it was only a reprieve. This night's work would eventually be part of Tony Spilotro's undoing. Meanwhile, Commander Clifford was ready to turn the screw on Tony Spilotro. - We couldn't play by their rules. We couldn't go out and just We had to play by our rules. So we sat down and said, Clifford decided to get under Tony Spilotro's skin, to He made sure his officers were there when Spilotro or any of his - When they got up in When they made a left hand we called a uniformed and had the car towed. They had to bail out. That cost them money. That cost 'em at least $1,500. They had to go get their That cost them another $1,500. And it cost them inconvenience When they was mad, they Spilotro a very big mistake. After police shot dead an associate, Spilotro rashly issued a contract to kill the two Metro When Commander Clifford to Chicago to confront - I knew that the Chicago bosses had never authorized a It was unheard of. They would never do that. - Organized crime has a rule. They do not seek retribution Because if they do, then a great deal more pressure and attention's gonna Clifford that if they broke the rule he would break another rule - If they kill my cops, I'm coming back out to I'm gonna kill everything that moves, walks or crawls around their house. The prospect by a rogue policeman appalled and they ordered Spilotro to Tony Spilotro was now in deep trouble. Not only had he failed to but unforgivably, he put his boss's wives and children in mortal danger. Clifford had severely rattled Spilotro and damaged his position in the Outfit. Spilotro was starting to crack. He demanded it to meet - We got nose-to-nose, He said, &quot;You went to Chicago and told 'em you've got 40 men. Well, I want you to know we got 400.&quot; I looked him in the eye and said, &quot;That makes us even, doesn't it?&quot; He said, &quot;What?&quot; I said, &quot;Yeah, any one of my And he backed up. He said, &quot;Well, you said I said, &quot;I didn't say I said I was gonna put To a the police were now a real threat. And the Las Vegas FBI was The FBI director in Washington was about to send FBI legend Joe Yablonsky to head up the Las Vegas office. - As the director said to me, &quot;I hope you can stimulate some activity.&quot; And I do believe those words were met. - Joe Yablonsky was a famously and successful prosecutor, But in all his years, he'd never seen anything like - It was a place that was My initial remark was, &quot;Is this really part - When he came here, he realized that he had to Until now, the Metro Police and the FBI had not cooperated. But they both now to have a chance of jailing Spilotro, they would have to actively work together. What new FBI chief Yablonsky and Police Commander Clifford They talked to each other. - I called him and said, So we went to lunch. He pledged cooperation, So his men and my men got We had to earn their trust. - It was very important to have the cooperation of the I mean, they lived and grew up here. They had more informants on the street. You needed their assistance. You couldn't operate without it. - There wasn't anything we didn't share, or we didn't try to cooperate with in our goal to rid the - The FBI and the were of the same mind, that it was now time against these people Gradually, - Slowly we were putting Who the players were, how they was doing it, what who their girlfriends were. We knew everything about 'em except the color of their socks. We had a sense that we that we were bringing it in. We knew we had Tony Spilotro. It was just a matter of time. Spilotro did He turned his Gold Rush jewelry store into a secure, fortified HQ. Guns were kept under the counter. He stationed men with binoculars He even had his own and counterintelligence operation. Tony Spilotro thought he was invulnerable. But there was a weakness. The FBI had an informant, and Salvatore Romano was solid gold. He was the Hole in the Romano revealed to the FBI for a million dollar burglary on Bertha's antiques and jewelry store. More than that, he videoed inside the Gold Rush with a The door itself is steel. So that the steel won't If the police and the FBI could catch the gang red handed, The date for the raid the 4th of July, 1981. Spilotro's plan was for the fireworks of the 4th of July celebrations to cover the noise of the through the roof and into the vault. But police officers and FBI - I was with Yablonsky, and all my men had teamed We watched it as it went down. - We were videotaping and they were carrying their and climbing up and getting Once the gang broke in, the agents and officers pounced. - We got the bad guys doing the bad thing and we got all the equipment. We got all the evidence we'd ever need. Among those were crew boss Frank Cullotta and disgraced ex-cop Joe Blasko. - To see him show up there probably gave me some of the - And I let him know how satisfied I was that I The one person they didn't arrest that But under new anti-organized crime laws, if they could connect Spilotro he would face trial with his crew. - We knew that they worked for Tony. So absolutely it was tremendously significant. And it drew him right in to a major crime. - So it didn't matter We were going to get him. We were going to arrest him. Spilotro's He was afraid members of the and reveal not just his but that Jerry Lisner had Spilotro panicked and issued an unauthorized contract on his childhood buddy Frank Cullotta. - We got word that Tony Spilotro because he was suspect which he wasn't. Ironically, until this point, Frank Cullotta had been following the Mafia code of omerta But Tony Spilotro had left him The debriefing and was assigned to FBI Agent Dennis Arnoldy. - Certainly Frank Cullotta was scared of what Tony Spilotro might after the arrest at Bertha's, certainly. And once we told him that it was well founded, the fear. Frank the protection of the FBI and against his associates. Spilotro had sealed his own fate. - Cullotta totally cooperated. There was no holdback. So that was a breakthrough from the standpoint of having someone directly connected to Spilotro. During debriefing, Cullotta reached back He revealed it was Tony Spilotro who had committed the Spilotro was arrested in Las Vegas. Now, he faces and a Cook County grand jury indictment on murder and conspiracy charges whose badly beaten bodies were found in the trunk of a Pontiac - In Chicago, on the Spilotro went on trial of Billy McCarthy and Jimmy Now, the FBI seemed to have But the corrupting power still reached into dark Some judges were rumored and Spilotro certainly seemed to think so. He persuaded his lawyer to agree to a tactic almost unheard He waived his right to trial by jury. Judge Thomas J. Maloney Maloney decided not to accept Cullotta's statements And so he acquitted Spilotro. Judge Maloney was later extortion, and obstruction of justice. He had taken bribes in three other cases. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison. Tony Spilotro may have escaped but it was only a short respite. This time he was not untouchable. Law enforcement was finally He was hit with a triple The FBI had painstakingly uncovered the Mob's multimillion dollar In the autumn of 1983, a total including Spilotro, Using Frank Cullotta's testimony, Spilotro and 17 others were charged with armed robbery and extortion. - Mr. But Cullotta He enabled the Justice to also charge Spilotro in connection with the murder of Jerry Lisner. Cullotta admitted to Agent Arnoldy that he had pulled the trigger and killed Jerry Lisner, - Yes, Frank Cullotta told me he was acting the under to kill Jerry Lisner. Three federal cases were now aimed squarely at Tony Spilotro. - When the indictments you knew that it wouldn't be long before Tony's reign would end. Spilotro faced sentences that could total 85 years in prison. This prospect put him And the Mob knew that people - He was an embarrassment. He was a loose cannon. All doubts have to be It's possible he could say something that would hurt somebody. The Chicago Mafia bosses hated the idea that anyone might squeal, let alone someone who Two days before the Hole in Las Vegas, the Outfit to return to Chicago. He and his brother Michael met up with people they knew and trusted, associates, friends even. The brothers were taken to believing that Michael was to be inducted as a made man into the Outfit. But as soon as Spilotro he realized what was about to happen. He asked if he might say a prayer. Tony Spilotro had beaten and tortured many victims in his career. Now, he was forced to watch was struck again and again. Michael was beaten to and Tony Spilotro knew that he was next. - The bodies were buried The first body was just about The bodies were on a farm in the clad only in underwear. - When Tony Spilotro was killed, I certainly was not saddened by the event. What condition Can you describe that? - They were decomposing. Well, than the government could give him. The forensic recorded blunt trauma to face, neck, and chest by fists or feet. The brothers were unrecognizable. - The identification was made as a result of a comparison with dental charts. Tony Spilotro The last unsolved murder - They kill each other and even though they're among thieves, they don't. They cross each other. They start looking after themselves, and for one reason or And this is a pattern that has existed since time immemorial Tony Spilotro's death marked the end of an era in Sin City. The landmark cooperation changed not just the face, Soon, the Mob's ownership and control of the casinos was ended. - There was a unification state law enforcement, where they got together and basically kicked the Mob out of Las Vegas for good. I can tell you, today, - Our goal was to put Tony's Spilotro and all these thugs in prison for life. That's what we wanted to do. And the end results, because they died, our culture, our society was better off. - Now, later in life, I for the city and for the country, and I think we all should