Hi all this is Chetan. Welcome to this lecture. AWS basic services. If you are not familiar services this lecture is for you. Ok so before few things about AWS. First - AWS global data services typically we will deploy it in some is called AWS region like across the world there in U.S. there are seven regions, in India there is and in all there are 20 regions at the moment till deploy services we can choose which regions we comprised of typically two or more data centers those data centers are called availability zones global data centers there are something called like you can consider it like and caching devices world and your content like your media videos and YouTube they get cached to the nearest location basically improves the performance by lowering 130 plus services if you heard about EC2 or S3 going to learn more about these services in this area here the blue area you see is an AWS region availability zones for high availability of your typically you will keep your machines in different reason you have your machine running in another AZ Okay so we'll talk about more this in EC2 sessions need to know about these things. Ok I hope the now let's move ahead and now I want to talk about of how these services regions and AZ really map AWS account AWS account is a top-level entity that your infrastructure in any of the AWS region. every region then comprises of two or more AZs and different services and they have different scope example say billing service it works at an account one AWS bill which you have to pay. IAM which is account level which means how many users you want would have access to all AWS regions and AZ's and are more services we'll talk about shortly and work at region level that means when you create to create that S3 bucket right similarly DynamoDB EC2 which is a VM, RDS databases, Elastic block AZ level. The scope of this services is AZ level at the same time it would be either in AZ-1 or that machine and same with the databases and the want you to understand that different AWS services AWS account is a top-level entity under which we AWS region. Now let's move to AWS services. There plus AWS services and we can broadly categorize analytic services like this so in compute there Container service likewise for Data analytics Athena so rather than talking about these services so that you can map really how this fits into recall what service is used for what. Similarly and database services then there are some network you have application services and development take care of all AWS services but we have listed services. Okay with this what I want to do next is see how to create the same architecture using understand different AWS services where they fit social media application maybe a mini version of to design the same architecture using different for example our users will access it using this application in your on-premises data centers network like every company has their private to make it secure of course. The next thing you suppose we are a startup then we will probably in some kind of application server or a web server lower than that and it works fine and our users initially so maybe this VM has some public IP and like you want to now extend your application and the login functionality and more. So that's as an application server so that all the front-end business logic - suppose it's a Facebook kind of people so adding that data and everything is taken if you want to extend it you need some kind of you can have Oracle whatever you prefer. Right? well and it's called three-tier architecture and address. Right? so this works well and considering really doing good and there is more traction from an application servers becomes a bottleneck. Maybe on your application. So what's the solution? happen vertical scaling that means you increase horizontal scaling. So typically in three-tier application servers are scaled horizontally that application servers right? like I have shown here. and multiple application servers but as you know multiple IP addresses and now is the time where distribute load to this web servers and that's if you have heard about the load balancers like a user hits the request to the load balancer and it this. And as you know now we have load balancers typically you don't want your application to be to access your application with the domain name need some DNS service where you can map your DNS Right? Okay so far so good this works fine right? well. Now it catches further and you are now friends are growing, number of connections are where your relational database cannot really serve relational databases. For this you need a scalable all it makes sense to rather going for NoSQL NoSQL database like MongoDB or Cassandra, anything stored in relational databases and other is stored your relational databases could be a performance happening on this database and for that typically called database caches. Ok so you bring in some where you can query the frequently accessed data database but all the requests are served from architecture than where we started with. Now millions of pictures uploaded daily and the videos are not really capable of extending on the fly. these media, pictures are never stored typically this, you need some unlimited kind of storage and necessarily a block storage like your disk. It can some external storage like Google Drive if you are storage where you store this information. Okay so capacity problem if you use external storage. is when you upload a videos or photos you need uploading videos and that video has some content having some nudity. So you need some content those pictures, videos should be actually stored more component there. Right? Okay that's fine now it is continuously watching what activities you maybe what kind of products you are liking, what it gives you suggestions and the friend request, clickstream analysis. Every click is getting real time so you need some kind of clickstream example - Twitter. What all tweets are going on Currently all this is done using the clickstream this. Now all this data what this clickstream stored somewhere in the external storage right? this storage for storing this data and further you like you need to run some maybe aggregations, meaning out of that data and that's where you need computing on distributed systems. Right? So you also require over the time one data warehouse. Why does lot of data analytics right ?Maybe at the of users are accessing Facebook more? What are particular feature of Facebook is being used so features. What is trending? All this information kind of data warehouse engine and then doing it. So you need some business intelligence tool then there are reports generated out of which then this is our strategy or we will focus on this can drive based on what analytics results come side which end-user does not really know but we have extended our architecture. Now next what be directly served over the internet because can directly maybe stream your videos and watch might come from the web browser and they may watch they can watch that video here but sometimes your they will watch your videos through mobile phone probably different format that's because mobile and for this typically we will need some kind user upload some videos maybe they should be format. All right? So you need some kind will introduce that as an Video Converter here. served from as I said from the external storage millions of users watch that video. Now every this might become a bottleneck or you may pay Internet and there is a lot of data usage you need to have something called CDN - Content caches these videos and pictures to the nearest your videos. Right? so that all the users in that it is served from here it is not really served and gets better experience. So in the applications they would have lot of content delivery networks far so good! We have extended architecture you mobile notifications right? There is a new now for this we need some kind of notification push notifications so you need that service. Also you can disable that but yeah there is option further you can also chat with your friends and queue - if you heard about like RabbitMQ JMS which enables the kind of first-in first-out and you require some kind of queue service as well. bare minimum kind of social media application. I'm just sticking to this as of now. And finally if it continuously like How my VMs are doing? How How much storage is there? For all this, you need like production dashboard where you can monitor will be your architecture and this probably will want to do the same thing on AWS then how we will see. First thing this private network what VPC virtual private cloud! So it is not exactly services are outside VPC but I cannot accommodate isolated network that AWS gives you and then for web servers and load balancer and a private discussion but the VPC is a network service. these are nothing but EC2 machines right?And the Block Storage and they have limitation of maximum VMs that typically will deploy your applications you can have an auto scaling enabled for EC2 EC2 instances then they can scale horizontally scale down maybe from 2 machines they can go to 10 depending on the load that you can configure for relational databases there is a service a service called DynamoDB. For DB caches there is with a Redis and memcached engines in that. Okay Amazon there is a service called ELB - Elastic incoming traffic to multiple back-end EC2 machines domain name mapping to your load balancer then Ok great ! Now let's talk about the other stuff service of Amazon simple storage service right? on dumping the data and it is accessible over the how much data you can store in your S3 buckets. service called Rekognition which can find out out before you upload it to the say S3 buckets. where your videos from one format get converted format. Now for this, one option is you run some buckets for new videos as the new video comes they another bucket that's one option but there is a lambda is a serverless service of Amazon where you maybe convert a video and you can execute this happening into your S3 so new video comes video and maybe you have put in logic that put there are no servers to manage! Everything is automatically. Okay so we got lambda there. Now for clickstream analysis there is a service called and then you can analyze that data, you can even with whatever data you capture. Right? Now for called EMR and what EMR does like operations like jobs - SPARC jobs, Flink jobs. All this you can need to do ETL transactions from your DynamoDB are their? friend's friend? What activities they on your wall. Now all this is done in real time year maybe you want all this data to be extracted and then further do some data processing using extract transform and load operations - ETL data what you process or what data you have, you is nothing but Redshift in Amazon. So redshift petabyte scale of data and you can perform this analysis and see the results you need some in the market but in Amazon you will use Amazon SQL query interface so you can pull data from all those results can be viewed in a Quicksight. get insides of your data based on that you will from Amazon. Ok so far so good! we introduced lot Now as I said there is a content delivery content and for this in Amazon there is something or caches your data in edge locations. Like I across 100 plus cities across the world and when or wherever you store your data, it gets cached is coming and the data is always served from geography. Ok so that's a CloudFront service. Now to send an messages and mobile push notification notification service for that. And if you want service - simple email service. Now for messaging its own queue service which is called SQS- all this infrastructure - how my EC2 instances are is database is doing? All these can be monitored Even you can set alarms like if an average send an email or alert to the administrator or all this can be done using this CloudWatch alarm what we did on-premises with all AWS services basic AWS services. Okay next we want to see some services. Now as you know it's a Facebook or itself it exposes all their services through API can integrate with these applications and for that all their APIs. So in Amazon, you can have managed throttling, everything so you just write a code be deployed in API gateway. Also as the mobile users you need to manage their identities like sign-up to your application right? And that their accesses and everything and for that you service is called Cognito. Right? so these are Now let's move ahead and talk about the security there is one primary service for managing all what access they have, what services they can wants to upload a data to S3 then EC2 needs and authentication and authorization is managed management. It's one of the most important service Next, what you can also do is you can encrypt various storage locations like EBS is a block can encrypt that data. Data which is stored in S3, Databases, Caches all this data you can encrypt it manages all the encryptions key for you. You you can store your keys and do the encryptions. accessed probably over HTTPS which is SSL enabled some transactions or they don't want to lose that communication and for this you need digital either deploy on load balancers or you may deploy secure. For this Amazon has a service called ACM - we can also have the application firewalls. Now Application Firewall. Now that take care of any SQL injection, even the DDoS attacks which are these attacks and you will typically deploy it your API gateways that we saw in earlier slide to secure VPC - the public and private subnets networking in AWS lectures but here we are talking And if you're going for some kind of compliance going for an HIPAA compliance so your machines from vulnerabilities right? or CVE as you know and What it does? It puts an agent inside your vulnerabilities and then it will give you reports these machines we found these vulnerabilities, about what's there inside our machines. services and there are more but I think we will of now. Next, we want to see some development and it has lot of AWS services and all are connected. maybe manually I would say it will take maybe errors or detecting the errors and fixing it, take two or three days probably but with AWS it that's called infrastructure as a code. So you can It takes kind of a template from you which is in infrastructure from scratch for you and that size you have but typically I have seen in like 30 for you. It's a very powerful service which can Right? And now this CloudFormation template the same time you would have your developers and product and maybe QAs are writing QA test cases, kind of code repository like a GIT code repository can check-in the code. So even this CloudFormation these guys your DevOps guys will write that as a template and create this infrastructure. Now once actually product to be build and for that you need the source code in whichever language you have using some kind of build tool like ant or maven and finally it will produce some artifacts. Now your application executables basically. So the you have to deploy this. That means whatever it in EC2 machines where your application is actually this you have a CodeDeploy service. Alright? So term CI and the CDs so this is your CI pipelines delivery pipeline you can say and if you want are writing the code, checking it in, it and automatically deployed into corresponding have a Codepipeline service. Right? So you can these three services. Now if you want to further tools like maybe a JIRA or some bug tracking tool, management tools, now it is called a Codestar JIRA and other tools so you have complete SDLC the devops services. Okay so I think this is services are used. Okay so if you have come up to now for compute, analytics, storage, security,