Rome was a mess. And I mean that on every level. messy, and in our case, talking about Rome the fun with them - Because there is no single every province, every social class, and every my goal today is to tell a complete history Not just looking at warfare, nor literature, nor certainly not imperial tabloid scandal, but a consciousness that defines the Senatus Populusque letters "SPQR" weren't just a moniker the Romans remained true throughout centuries of evolution feel really special. There's honestly nothing like just what Rome became, but how much slow, careful, preservation. As we'll see in a minute, early as generation after generation dedicated end of. And I just think that's really cool, so: story and weave our way through two millennia of Let's do... some History! Rome was not built in a day, but it was built, civilization as we understand it is the product of weak and powerful - working over millennia to can see that they built and accomplished amazing obvious is what they built on. Not literally, but what cultural foundation sustained so huge an takes us to the very beginnings of their history, led to all of this. However, any records from the as the city was sacked and burned in 390 by a mercy of Roman Legend: completely ahistorical, considerable setback in understanding the with this - because later Romans also didn't know curious to fix that. So, lacking a verifiable and intentionally compiling a narrative foreshadowing of the later Rome they knew. This of storytellers until their codification around cultural intent and ambition for the Rome that was to better understand the underlying Roots of Rome. If we take the Romans at their word, their origins on fire and one lucky prince Aeneas escaped. He won kingship of the plain of Latium, but it's not Longa a short ways south of the Tiber river for deposed by his brother Amulius, who made Numitor's the bloodline ends with her. This was always a sure enough the war god Mars slid in to give her be killed river-style, but they were saved at the them through early childhood before they were count to one dad, two moms, one god, and a wolf. and later set about founding a new settlement as they were plotting out the course of their new distinctly not last Roman-on-Roman violence. That, his kingship secure and the city founded in the so he welcomed bandits, exiles, and other such en-masse to ensure Rome would have heirs. Unlike of war, but the Romans sure learned from his features of Roman society: the tribes, Patrician patron-client system, even the Senate arose as if After him, six more kings ruled over Rome, Tarquinii clan, and the very last was Tarquinius total knob. His incessant assholery enraged the very exciting, ousting Tarquin and establishing the Italian peninsula was destined to one military and kickass civic institutions, and the self-indulgent, but above all else, convenient. apart. First off, Rome's founding date of 753 is a line up with the earliest Greek Olympics. As far of Aeneas the perfect Roman OC Do Not Steal is attested by Greek sources during the Republic. compared to 753; that hefty 4-century gap between Dionysius of Halicarnassus seemingly invented the Antiquities" from the first century BC. The Kings and some can be mapped onto nearby Latium Dionysius decided that hill over there is totally don't google it, I promise, please, please into the twins' backstory that the Alban kings boys' story is overtly mythical, and even Livy less believable than divine parentage is the idea which requires an unbroken string of seven 35-year by only two emperors before the fall of Western the realism line; because each segment of this messy set of chronologies between key events: the the vaguely-understood foundation of the city in Trojan origins of Aeneas back in the Bronze Age. aloud how exactly their history could fit two until the Augustan period to square all that by build the city itself. Other classical states narratives - Athens certainly didn't mind having Theseus, eugh - but in the first century BC, Rome all those disparate threads to play by History's to be what we would call "Factual", it just needed into existence to tidy up the timeline, Aeneas and Rome's legendary origins only needed to make sense before Rome's first sack in 390 BC, that's As pure history, it's bound to leave us wanting their culture, this origin tells us everything the anyone else to know: Their heroes are divine runs back as far as anywhere in Greece, they come is in their blood, they 100% have a wolf kink, and is Livy's filler arcs. Now, for a supposedly ancient story, two of history, and reveal what later Romans thought His first act as king was to welcome Italy's which may seem rather unheroic on the face of its openness to cultures and people. Rome, of and made that known loudly and frequently, but and was willing to let any barbarian become Roman Latin. Romans always started as outsiders, be far off Troy, supposedly. Rome was also remarkably slaves, a quality the Greeks absolutely did not enshrines the idea that regardless of social become a Roman - and that idea is the stuff that alongside Rome's great aspirations, their deepest as their ruinously blood-soaked hobby of civil Rather than being intended as justification this looks like the closest thing to Rome's be doomed to repeat over and over and over and permanent forms seven centuries after the supposed History of Rome and Virgil's Aeneid - and as we illuminate the earliest settlements amid those go on. The image sharpens into historical focus and embark on the slow process of building a domain across central Italy, but the further we and relevant their origin story becomes. The earliest Romans - if they even called themselves even did any of the things their myths take much about the civilization they would become and Crafty Bastards. As the next two thousand years to keep in mind as we start laying down more and Rome did not begin with a grand plan of conquest. suffering their first major incursion of the fortify their territory by pacifying threats at and never finished. Individuals had their but at scale, this doctrine of Expanding Defense 53-and-a-half step plan for Mediterranean priorities which successive generations inherited military philosophy carved through Etruria, Gaul, Syria, Egypt, Germania, and Parthia - there getting ahead of ourselves; Rome handled history was simply a spearited back and forth the Samnites to the south, and later on the further south. And by &quot;spearited&quot; I do literally While all of this neighborly murder-y business up both physically and institutionally, with and buildings, a governmental system reminiscent reminiscent of the Greek pantheon. Man that kicked out Tarquin and swore never to have a king already in place, like the Senate, the Patrician to a Republic was really more of a reorganization anything like that. Broadly speaking, the whole the power so the people could participate, &quot;Res Publica&quot; which just means &quot;public thing&quot;. two annually elected Consuls, the Praetors ran the roman name ever, managed state finances. The city, so they handled food, games, infrastructure, technically legislate anything, published opinions place by their respective officers down the chain. Almost all of these magistrates and Senators nobility. If you happened to be one of Rome's little left out of this supposed Res Publica. and social rights and they were determined campaigning against Rome's bothersome neighbors, army, simply went on strike. They'd just go sit the right to marry Patricians or to have their or to elect their own members of that special 287 BC the Plebeians and the Patricians were of the Roman Republic simultaneously had elements This mixed constitution and its flexibility Polybius - was one of Rome's greatest strengths, were its backbone for over two thousand years and entire civilization. Okay, enough of the politicky early Roman Republican history is a notoriously over two centuries, and conquering the Italian intent on being careful, taking small steps, and the Macedonian conquests happening just a short tend to fracture. Rome spent most of the fourth neighbors and working its way down to only the bay long a time - Call it careful, call it as fast as either way it worked. Key to Rome's military &quot;Expanding Defense&quot;. Essentially Rome would never Good heavens no! Rome had the good manners to their gods would only grant them victory if their suspected that someone was going to attack them, of course! A pre-emptive retaliatory strike, if entire world, defensively. By 280 Rome had successfully yoinked all of Magna Graecia in southern Italy. Magna Graecia, wishing to keep their land thank you very much, in the big guns. Specifically they imported the two battles against the Romans, and even though he that he bailed on the campaign. After a detour and went home for good. Pyrrhus's abilities to through a third of his army in the process is what on Pyrrhus for eternally tethering his name to the all-nighters to cram for a test. Yeah it's a much no one left to protect Magna Graecia, Rome place. And unlike those who employ the &quot;Torch it a political motive to be kind-ish toward conquered rocking the boat too badly. Exceeeeeept for this History, The Punic Wars against Carthage. The first war can be roughly attributed to a While Carthage and Rome may have been destined they ultimately came to blows on account of both the city of Syracuse and some rowdy pirates. Rome war, and spent most of the 23-year long war was Carthage had been a long-standing naval navy to speak of. So Rome really needed a navy, of Rome adapting to situations scarily well. Say they were immensely clever, and had a great habit techniques from other cultures and using them a few beached and sunk Carthaginian Triremes and entire fleet of ships. You know, just casually, as that fruitful but at battles like Cape Ecnomus, in history, Rome pulled out wins. Ultimately Rome won the war, claiming Sicily Carthage. They also decided to take Corsica these are mine now.&quot; In the decades following, the colonized the seaside coast of Hispania or silver to pay their Roman reparations. Little and the other Carthaginians in Spain, were furious been casually scheming to completely destroy Hannibal sacked the Roman allied Seguntum in Spain to rather famously Leroy Jenkins his way across elephants. ELEPHANTS! And while Elephants aren't Roman who's never seen an elephant before, that snake coming out of its face! Bottom line, they're Granted most of Hannibal's elephants died while but it doesn't take a lot of elephants to have genuinely can't convey how viscerally terrifying been to a Roman. After arriving in Italy, by immediately winning two battles in northern Hannibal and his armies would proceed to stay in no means of supply or reinforcement, for 16 years. setting fire to farms left and right hoping Hannibal said "Alright screw this I'm gonna to make plans for his next battle, at the roman battle the Carthaginians advanced in a U-shape 10,000 cavalry on the wings. The Romans however pretty good about their chances. The armies met Carthaginian line fell back, and the Romans pushed Except at that moment when they all rushed in, the cavalry advanced on the flanks and effectively a bloodbath - estimates are all over the place Roman army was killed outright, and the rest were Rome ever suffered in its history. And Hannibal lost 16 legions and the entire south of Italy, simply, "See ya next year". And it spent the the following summer. For the next several years, the Roman army and shadowed Hannibal around the Italian and they obviously didn't want him there, but so good enough for now. But jumping back, quintessential Roman badassery it takes to hear turn around and tell the guy who killed them to that takes some serious coleones, serious and in 211 the young Publius Cornelius Scipio took up widely considered to be a dead-man's quest. To the five years successfully de-Carthagifying Spain. plan to take the fight back to Carthage. But the told him he could do it, but they wouldn't finance in Italy and Sicily and hopped over to north general, in that he did impossibly crazy stuff 16 years, and wiping out an entire roman army - Roman ability to adopt and adapt. The Romans and they almost never made the same mistake had to do to defeat Carthage. Since the Numidian Scipio played into a Numidian civil war to get he had massively weakened Carthage on their own when OH SNAP HANNIBAL'S BACK. And on that day, history nerds from all around because this was gonna be good! The night before actually, supposedly, had a meeting. It's detailed and 31. Just read it okay, for me, read it it's other. Then Hannibal waxes philosophical and asks for peace. Scipio respondes &quot;Well I was here, I can't just leave now. Look Hannibal I no choice here man. I've just gotta kick your I have to kick your ass.&quot; And on the following day, some asses were Scipio's Numidian cavalry put the Carthaginian infantry lines was actually very close until Carthaginian line to ultimately win the day. but with that, the second Punic War was won. Half ending all of his senate speeches with &quot;Carthago the ground. Later accounts would embellish this Carthage would never rise again. In literal terms, its own Carthage on the site of the original, the Carthaginian state. Further, that fable is an a core trait of their character: There's regular and then there's Rome hates you so much they wipe bitter. Moral of the story is Rome does not screw that much is true. With Spain and north Africa now happily Romanized, up the squabbling and stagnating Hellenistic Shortsighted's campaigns. The Macedonians so Rome considered that sufficient grounds is a word that I made up for the act of getting the Seleucid Greeks helped the Macedonians, Not wanting to go too far too fast (and also army yet) Rome stopped at Greece for the better the armies of the eastern Mediterranean towards conquest. It was super important that because that was Italy. But all of these new under Rome. Even though Rome was still a it absolutely possessed an empire by this point. of the kingdom of Pergamum through a will of all Mediterranean. But there was one thing Expanding adept at exporting violence. In 146, it capped the to the ground, meanwhile that very same year, murdered, and/or enslaved every Man, Woman, Child, their conquest of Greece. This was a banger year of painting a beautiful shade of Red all across at best for the new subjects, not citizens, who Roman statecraft abroad, and with such a thin line we shouldn't be surprised when someone applies preamble out of the way, let's meet the Gracchi these boyos were the sons of a Consul and of the great general Scipio Africanus himself. Tiberius set about reforming land rights to be own more than half a square mile of the Public a lot of Public Land was recently acquired by the that out in small lots for the poorer citizens, so all the citizens had a farm and a livelihood to law had already been in place since 367 BC, but gobbled up loads of public land during the recent ignored was the same reason Tiberius would have so old-money-est citizens tended to be Senators, considerable source of their family wealth. But Tiberius was not a Senator himself, rather, in past, this was the only office available to reforms and good old fashioned bullying eroded between Patricians and Plebeians. And as a the authority to veto many government actions and veto to save Scipio Africanus from a sham bribery why Scipio's daughter was swiftly betrothed into remain unexplored, but the relevant point is how act in the interest of the Plebeians. Except this the Plebeian Assembly, the Senators pressured and despite Tiberius' requests, neither the So Tiberius took a similarly unprecedented step and then finally passing the reforms, with him to landless citizens. Now with all that done... that last bit was a little shifty. A frivolous passing a law with blatant conflicts of interest Rome's Proto-Socialist fave became problematic. are a fascinating showcase of how Romans began to outright Breaking the Republic. But, let's so here is the fun part. Fearing prosecution once he left office, Tiberius consecutive second term as Tribune, which his grab on top of his existential threat to their was popular, and Tiberius' enemies in the Senate So the Pontifex Maximus and several senators went ruckus and stop the vote counting. But the ensuing they grabbed what was available, and subsequently we will see later, stabbing Caesar with knives full-body workout - that takes intent and a good Roman instinct for violence had turned inward that blood-red line so spectacularly crossed, the senators were already in too deep to just go 300 of Gracchus' supporters, thus introducing the prejudice against the expediency of assassination. Now with that point made, I mentioned Tiberius had well, let's see for ourselves. Gaius was unfazed even more aggressive reforms when he became redoing the provincial tax system so income went that new revenue to offer low-price wheat for the in the courts and stopped the senate from playing was to prevent Senatorial corruption by elevating oversight roles in the Republic. Far more daring slate of reforms touched nearly every level of and courts to consuls - so it could only be passed offering them new authority and prestige in and make the Republic run smoother. That all sounds good and noble, but let's remember so the man justifiably held a grudge. To that end, the Assembly's consent, and forbade anyone deposed paper, that's a power-grab for the Assembly, but all the reasons Senate hated him, he remained a second consecutive term as Tribune in 122. But it's here that Gaius played himself by Rome was Rome, and proper Romans were citizens, weren't citizens, and the other Italians in Latins. Gaius sensed widespread discontent he could win them over by giving Latin Rights to citizens. One could imagine how such a grateful everything forever. But while this solution was every class of citizen in Rome, so the measure the board despite his astounding reforms, and this is just realpolitik. Ugh, Dammiiiit. - Wait, SO, one of Gaius' pet policies was setting up new so that proper Romans had a place to live in people to get. But the new Tribune proposed to protests against it, and in the ensuing scuffles, horrified at the uproar, feared a classic Gracchi Consultum Ultimum, an ultimate decree branding granting themselves the authority to strategically it's 133 BC - Gaius and his gang fortified Consul raised a mob and brought soldiers within differ on the details, as is tradition, but Gaius Senate found him. So technically, technically, However, 3,000 of his supporters were absolutely and that handy purge left a template for targeted too eager to follow. In the years after, nearly all of Gaius' not escape him throughout its last century. His and the political violence of his term became the issue of citizenship erupted into the Social full citizenship, but nearly toppling the the Equestrian class benefitted immensely from none of the checks or customs that kept the Senate didn't collapse overnight, and the worst of its but the reforms, political battles, and violent to be Bad - and that was a temptation the Romans kick Rome's ass like Rome. Okay, Rome buddy hold up you had no political thing going, please don't screw this up... Oh WOW Jeez, yikes where do we start? Well, crises like the Gracchi derived in part wealthy and well-connected Roman provided for his This worked fine on a small scale but things got public support in large quantities. On top in Sicily and Italy. Then there's the social war which all Italians were granted full citizenship. to overthrow the consulship of Cicero! All of that's a lot of civil warring to happen in the worst of the lot were the factional civil aristocratic Optimates. Otherwise known as the two a seven-time Consul and general who conquered headed the Populares. While the Optimates were The Optimates, for context, were the ones who clearly remained satisfied with their handiwork, in Anatolia, he marched his army into Rome, massacre his rival Populares, Twice. He did all of not a single Roman being killed over politics prescribed hit lists of political enemies. Things Rome started as one tiny irrelevant city and means. First conquering Italy, then the islands, Anatolia. What astounds me is that a typical Roman Whether intentionally or not, the Romans were and strategic restraint let them build towards it appeared to be creating a world far greater and Greek kid on a horse, but as we'll see, that only and that was not a given. Ah the roman republic, perhaps the ancient world's rough go in its later years, but with the right for centuries to come - like this guy right here, his power to preserve the Republic. We've seen factional and Roman territory got increasingly civil war-y, as in they'd barely be able to go a into some variety of a civil war. It's honestly itself in half before we even got to Caesar, so as about our old buddy Julius I want to consider the as a whole but specifically the republican or whether it had any chance of survival. Because we look at people like Caesar and Augustus and they went too far, but since I'm impatient I'm the republic had almost no chance of surviving first century, you know what kind of mess Rome was misaligned from the good of the state. I love the of government ever, But that poor thing was so on its last legs, let's meet the guy who took I'll spin you a yarn about some Cilician pirates. himself captured by a band of pirates who wanted There's no agreed-upon conversion between talents that one talent is about a million bucks. So when them and demanded that they ask for a much more charmed by Caesar's overwhelming diva-ness all too happy to keep him around for the sheer told stories, and even wrote poems and speeches speeches were bad, and Caesar would respond by crucify every last one of them, which the pirates pirates did get their 50 talents so they let Caesar came back with a bunch of ships and 50 talents back. He brought the pirates to the seem to care all that much, Caesar took matters keeping his promise and crucified all of them... about his image, he's amazingly charismatic, he's he needs to, and he does not screw around. On to more historically significant matters, our from a prestigious family that traced its ancestry However, Caesar had a chip on his shoulder Roman culture, the concept of Nobilitas was rooted but you have to confirm it by doing excellent ages and the renaissance and the enlightenment period you couldn't just coast by on familial something for it in ancient Rome. Caesar's dad goal in life was to confirm his Nobilitas by just other prominent Romans: Crassus the richest man in and they created an informal alliance. In other were all good friends, Pompey married Caesar's consulship in 59 BC, Caesar passed all the laws and land redistribution legislation, Caesar maybe did things that were straight up illegal, but Mario star of roman politics, which meant that he was in office. Regularly overriding the veto said so&quot; and filling the city with legionaries to no-no's in the eyes of the Roman elite, but but once that consulship and his Imperium so he needed to find a way to keep his Imperium years later. Conveniently, Governors and Generals secure himself a governorship of a province go around campaigning with all the Imperium in the senators, fearing that Caesar would do literally governor of a province for essentially governor again, had enough power to overturn that. Coins how fragile the republic really was at this point: effectively cripple the normal flow of government own benefit. Speaking of, Caesar got himself four along with a metric butt-load of military Imperium Gaul for the next 10 years. It's astounding how and it's because Caesar himself wrote extensive as he could justify his continued campaign in and how great of a job he was doing, while also showing how cool he was and how great of a job so win-win-win. Caesar's work happens to be but meh, quibbles. Alright, so in enough detail that I can enough form that we wont be here for hours, In 58 BC Caesar attacked the Helvetii tribe on the because remember, Rome would never be so crass as campaigning season, Caesar left his armies in The next year Caesar went north, won a battle and the Veneti tribe had, quote, &quot;revolted from Rome&quot; so... he conquered it. Safe to say at this point as already his, uh I mean Rome's. The next year thing. He considered Britain and Germany as Rome So in the same year he bridged the Rhine the English channel. The invasion of Britain was back with a huge fleet because the man can't leave Thames. After his floundering humiliating scramble had to prove that Rome was no pushover -- to his Oh uh, also he lost an entire legion to an ambush went back to Germany and afterwards left half of make me come back there&quot; kind of warning. The following year was probably the biggest year unified the remaining Gallic tribes against Vercingetorix camped out on the fortified hill and wall off the city to starve it out, but there got attacked while investing the city. So Cesar a 10 mile long wall on the inside, and a 14 mile that Caesar threw down because he was determined know a ton of Gauls come down to attack Caesar. So sends out a cavalry detachment to attack them, Roman Reinforcement force, so they panic and Caesar to take the city, and just like that, that's how you do a campaign. The next two years were spent cleaning up the Caesar still had a few years before he's allowed complicate things Crassus died while on a campaign senate to rescind Caesar's governorship of Gaul. immune to the vices of factionalism, fell victim not a good sign. So Caesar got Pompey's note, and own was nearly a death sentence, Caesar - feeling &quot;Alea Iacta Est&quot; and brought the 13th legion over of the Senate proceeded to nope right the hell support of the people, was proclaimed temporary restoring peace, even though he technically shhh, details. -- Against all odds, he proceeded at the battle of Pharsalus. Then he chased poor case was Egypt. Pompey sought refuge with the boy very displeased to find himself beheaded horrified to see Pompey's head because, first of citizen, and Caesar was planning on pardoning him in how healthy communication saves lives. But pretty much his thing (except for you know the small pardons during the Gallic campaign, Caesar of his supporters who fled to Greece with him. aspects of Caesar's character. He was certainly a but it's important that we weigh the Nice with He broke a ton of laws and sold his soul just to benefited the people. He killed a terrible sum consulship, but he granted clemency more than he basically fashioned himself a king after he was his people and he used his power to stabilize lasting good for Rome's people, but that good suspiciously power-hungry motivations. He's a and even his nobler accomplishments are drenched perspective, so you can get a feel for some of when they were making plans to assassinate &quot;ahead&quot; of myself... awkward. While Caesar was in Egypt deciding what to do with with and on the queen Cleopatra, supporting her in proved beneficial for both of them, as Cleopatra than annexing Egypt, and Caesar could count on which helped supply Caesar's generous public food Cleopatra was utterly captivating to talk to, his position as dictator was extended to Caesar managed to instate even more reforms that and general stability. For one, he limited governors, mostly to stop other people from senate. He reformed the monstrosity that was the version of it today. He also conducted a census, the roman provinces more closely with italy, Did he pull a lot of super mega illegal stunts But did he make substantially beneficial system, Caesar's first and final true mistake was the republic. In march of 44 BC Caesar was named really antsy, because at this point he was didn't like kings. So on the Ides of March, surrounded and killed Caesar in the theater rather disputed, but my take on it is that when after Pharsalus, was a part of the conspiracy, covering his face with his toga. I don't think words when there were 23 knives simultaneously fancied themselves liberators and restorers of that the Romans really liked Caesar because, oh leader? While I disapprove of Caesar's motives them clemency and they killed him! Dante puts for betraying their protector, and I'm with Dante and left bleeding out on the floor of the curia. the room well enough to tell they weren't wanted, Greece to build up an army. In my mind, Caesar killed the republic long before the system was. I mean, let's count it: he bribed through the Senate, intimidated his political consequences for his actions on a technicality, and enrichment, marched an entire legion into own political gain. The entirety of Caesar's unrepublican in character or explicitly illegal. senate name Caesar as dictator for the FIRST time. functionally had become a king, he had long since For most of the republic's history, its success downfall came primarily from the selfishness of fragile and gameable the institutions of the the entire Mediterranean. So basically one either civil wars continued on and eventually government changed to make it less susceptible Barring a full overhaul of the republic's deepest this point because nothing else could stop the line was far from a guarantee, Rome's transition it was to survive. It's a little paradoxical but unstable and unworkable republic. He abused the he showed how effective a strong and stable basis of Rome's accomplishments for the centuries next time, Augustus starts an empire. Alright, Caesar's dead, so uh... where do we go out! If you were one of the handful of senators your first move would be to get the Pluto out were about to restore Rome to the full glory of massive popularity among the Roman people. welcome and round of applause they were hoping Pompey and high-tailed to Greece to build an army. Back in Rome, Caesar's corpse was still sitting part of the senate was gone, and most of what was a power vacuum on our hands. The current consul attempted to brand himself as Caesar's avenger people to his side and fill that power vacuum. so that the assassins would be granted a general place. The problem for him, like Caesar, was that and Cicero in particular, very much did not. So be governor of Cisalpine Gaul. With Rome divided between dumpster fire let's leave all manners of fire behind us and named the rather-less-august Gaius Octavianus, to the pre-imperial Augustus as Octavian instead. and they were decently close. At the time of in Epirus, and after learning that Caesar had Italy he read Caesar's will, and promptly acquired possibly have given him: his name. From that as Gaius Julius Caesar, the officially adopted Octavian and Mark "I'll bang anything that moves the race to become Caesar's avenger against them because that role would entail not only glory Octavian was successful in this because he was a cultural symbolism, and he even convinced of political movements are honestly needlessly wanted to be on the winning side, regardless of constantly shifting. Octavian was probably the speeches against Antony, and then after Antony the governorship from another one of Caesar's sided with the current governor and against The Senate wanted to send a legion or two to Octavian, however, had promised Caesar's veterans him. So Octavian, interestingly, buddied up with makes no sense, because, you know, the whole Octavian was very pragmatic, and if helping Antony seemed politically expedient for him, you and the two consuls that year marched up to Mutina but both consuls were killed in the battle. When he said "hahahhh, eh, that's a good one, NO" eight legions and politely request that the Senate the Senate's begrudging compliance, Mark Antony political ally Marcus Lepidus. Meanwhile, anybody remember Pompey? Y'know, first decapitated on an Egyptian beach? Yeah, that guy. of the Republic's entire navy and Sicily to happily serving as governors of Macedonia and having fun, building up their armies, all that that amnesty agreement. Following the misunderstanding up at Mutina, friend Lepidus to form the Triumviri Rei Publicae Reconstitution of the Republic, and in smaller a civil war again"-team. Unlike the first alliance between Pompey Crassus and Caesar, was a legally-recognized entity that gave so everything they said or did was law. Now, what up for debate, but as far as the Triumvirate taking care of Brutus and Cassius in the east, and been quite expensive. The senate would likely have formation of the Triumvirate was nothing more than Caesarinos playing dictator. So the Triumvirate the assassins, but also with local hostility they split the difference and killed all of them. and drafted up a hit list of Rome's enemies, anti-Caesarian senators and some two-thousand funds were confiscated when they were killed, so amounts of money in the process of killing off started with that initial 2000-some-odd people, over a third of the senate. This was... *whooof* jeez. They killed Cicero and hanged his head up out of this not looking like Murder Tyrants. Civil on the docket for the Triumvirs was using their the assassins. Antony and Octavian led their at Philippi. Antony defeated Cassius, who killed but conveniently Octavian didn't die because After that, Antony came back to Octavian's camp So the Triumvirs win, but Antony did all of the bailed from the battle altogether. Forget Philippi was the biggest disgrace in Octavian's it by representing himself through calculated slightly reconstituted, and in the wake of a were the biggest players in the Roman world. So Octavian taking Italy, Spain, Gaul, and Illyria, and Syria, and poor old Lepidus getting Carthage sense that Lepidus didn't matter, it's ok because but late republican Rome being late republican two people, each controlling a third, half, to follow Caesar's example of unilaterally ruling be just, totally perfectly fine. No stress! Roman politics got even weirder than which, given the persistence and pervasiveness the military success of the Triumvirate, the hard that it wouldn't immediately explode into Republic had been living on borrowed time for we're looking at four maybe five minutes tops after the defeat of the assassins and the gutting notorious Proscriptions was an uneasy one to say fought, Italian fields burned and drenched were swirling in everybody's minds, so a lot of at a long-term solution. In poetry, this period is anxious about civil wars, Fearful you would say! Rome's greatest poets of the time, Horace and felt by the populace. And, as it happens, the poets were pretty much the east, Antony has been consolidating his power a bid to accumulate money and military power for importantly, he pulled a Caesar and sauntered over Octavian had a lot of problems. His land but proceeded to alienate the rest of Italy pretty you confiscate people's land and give it to your revolt against Octavian and very briefly captured quashed the rebellion, after which he sacrificed even executed -- Sacrificed. Octavian performed of the deified Julius Caesar. The ancient but when it came to people, Romans did not do to "Mass Murder of Wealthy Romans" on the list of is that anyone named Pompey is guaranteed to be a and that's definitely the case here. Sextus tooling around in the Mediterranean for the better blockading ports and regularly cutting off Rome's this, but couldn't really do anything since entire navy. Even though the Triumvirate was able a land battle, they were practically powerless Technically Egypt had a pretty great navy too, not Roman and also Cleopatra was solidly in Mark after a treaty broke down and Pompey inflicted a all around badass right-hand-man Marcus Agrippa building up a navy of his own from scratch. The Agrippa's forces couldn't train how to sail in murderized. So the madman DIGS A LAKE in the naval base to train up a fleet, which proceeded military GOD. My headcannon is that Agrippa, and a mission, dug the whole lake himself in a my hypothesis. Yet. After Agrippa's solo-carry against Pompey, but Octavian said "woah woah woah who let you the Triumvirate, confining him to the priesthood. were two! Moving on. Now, on paper, they were Octavia after his first wife Fulvia casually her and officially married Cleopatra, confirming for the better part of a decade. Observant viewers the same step in the process when hostilities get ready. It's around here that things start going was shaping up to end in a violent showdown the super scrawny strategist Octavian. 32 BC delivering what was apparently a devastating Octavian showed up in the senate with armed violation of traditional rap-battle protocol, up with Antony in the east. Hmm, you'll have to massive echo in the history. Unfortunately half of the Republic was kind of suckish, so a few Octavian sneakily got a hold of Antony's will, little fact that Antony wanted to be buried in Roman provinces to his children with her. Not only it was kingly behavior in service to a foreign pounced on this like a cat on an expensive-looking Antony, branding him as having been bewitched how to be properly Roman. Octavian, by contrast, his family heritage traced back to the epic hero know, insofar as anyone could trace anything when just as soon as Antony's will was exposed, mausoleum right on the banks of the Tiber river that Octavian pushed was that Antony had become "Antony was corrupted by this evil foreign queen avoided the touchy subject of civil war. Control over the narrative was key, and Octavian 32, all of Rome was convinced that the prime that Octavian was making a power play to seize worry about the complex political implications of here, Octavian's controversial land redistribution that he was able to take the loyalty of several ma boy, comes in clutch. First he prevented Antony which would have been a very bad time for Octavian away. After that, Antony and Cleopatra's armies with his supply chain running down to the because Awesome is his middle name, proceeded Corinth and then blockaded him in at if not hundreds of poems have been written to been a bigger anticlimax in all of Roman history. did in Gaul? *mwah* Tactical Brilliance! Actium? it's shockingly uninteresting. All the actual laid on the moves to force the fight, and then leaving and losing was better than likely losing because honestly, fair, so they broke the blockade home -- Octavian went back to Rome to tidy up the Cleopatra went back to Egypt, navy-less but alive. The next year, Octavian came to a defenseless general gist is Antony killed himself, to Rome to be a set-piece in Octavian's triple Rome the finger through a dramatic suicide, which by extension, Rome's side of the story, Cleopatra woefully inaccurate characterization. Historians now that our boy Octavian cleaned up at Actium, he what with the bodies of Antonius and Cleopatra, so Rome was finally at peace. Yay! Given the straight just gone through, it should be no surprise that that followed, Octavian consolidated power under most people knew and honestly didn't care because were among the two thirds of the senate that new position, he changed his name to Augustus, changed it to Romulus, presumably just to mess of the Triumvirate and the final war of the Roman was a very dangerous adversary who could have won his wife's ... erm, let's say eyes, Octavian had the was Octavian a superior strategist, but he had an the day in bad-ass extraordinaire Marcus Agrippa, friend Maecenas, Rome's biggest patron of poetry as some of his tactics were, Octavian's victory demonstrated that perhaps the only way to keep and after coming this far there was no way At barely 35 years old, Octavian Caesar, the was the most powerful man in Rome. In the span man," as Cicero called him, cleverly swayed the legacy of his"father" Julius Caesar, and struck Antonius to secure his revenge against the big C's consolidating his power in the Western Republic, turncoat slave to his mistress Cleopatra, because Mediterranean and c'mon it wasn't going to conquer both of them, Egypt got annexed and the Roman now known by the name Augustus. But there and if things were going to change, what needed be restored if there's one man clearly more even though the road to the Roman Empire wasn't son of a god, pulled it off. First things first, when he returned to Rome subject of whether or not he was going to make Instead he pulled a Bane and insisted that he was the people. Indeed, I'm Bane. erm, anyway. And Triumvirs, he ditched the now awkward title he did stay on as Consul, and remained Gaul, Syria, and Illyria, so he had insane legions in his pocket. And that would make but instead it's just lots of humans, land, and generally ceremonial role of Princeps Senatus, favor over the past few years, it effectively basically his trick -- he never changed any core different key positions of extreme power all at into Rome like "waddup I'm dictator for life" and wasn't as strong as he thought, Augustus was much himself up as a peace-bringer above everything and especially not the means to start another rule over the not-quite empire, the Senate gave republic-restoring, Pax Romana-securing ways, and everywhere and coins bearing his face and a shield full of justice and piety he is. ... Ok nuts, point a good king in practice but not in name as vastly civil war will do that to you. The closest brush with rebellion happened a few named Cornelius Gallus won a small campaign and visibly shaken by the wave of flashbacks to stern reprimand and then also a dagger for which than pride and Governing-While-Alexandrian, Rome collectively kept its mouth shut, and Augustus expanded Rome's borders to more or less secured a peace deal with the Parthians, who Rome's side for almost a century, as I'm sure poured down his throat. On the domestic side, and generals to keep everything running smoothly. working in high-gear to crank out some of Rome's a low bar to clear, but this new stuff was pretty most famous Augustan-era work is Virgil's Aeneid, Trojan history. And while Virgil slides in a Aeneid was still a key component of the so-called and architecture: the celebration of just how dang for making Rome its best self. - and nowhere Of all the things Augustus did, his most widely as a city of bricks and leaving it as a city of quote in the first emperor's mouth, nothing else itself so thoroughly into the popular historical assassination, not winning Rome's last*-ish civil Cleopatra, and it also wasn't transforming the royal dynasty (despite their massive long-term to remember him for &quot;Restoring the Republic&quot; and very big deal about those two - but those may well tangible achievement of giving Rome its identity. district character to them already - the previous devoted, opulent, fiercely pragmatic, more narcissistic - but these traits were understood demonstrating virtue in the face of peril. These real physical form. While Rome had its temples an opportunity to make the city itself into a word for this, and that word is &quot;Propaganda&quot;, freaking good at it, and his building program was without a doubt, the centerpiece crowning his was a strikingly-humble building called the Ara have - namely: a canvas for imperial propaganda, the first century BC. The city was situated among it was protected by the pre-republican-era Servian by a boundary called the Pomerium, supposedly the his city. Everything inside the Pomerium was the was just stuff that belonged to Rome. But with Rome's belongings were rather more impressive was fully lacking in the big-ticket megaworks no Pantheon, no palaces, no massive baths, dictatorial winnings on a major Forum and upgrades open racetrack with wooden bleachers. Pompey had theater and meeting house for the senate, and Which IS cool, but when Alexandria had temples and the most magnificent library in the ancient first things first: libraries. Augustus built a temple to Apollo on the Palatine hill, and another outside the Pomerium. At the same time, he built an ornate mausoleum for him and his family that die there. It's a grand tholos-shaped tomb covered to his rival Marcus Antonius, who allegedly Rome. Scandale! Now one bit of land between the hills and the both geography and complex ancient legalese. See, forbidden to cross it and enter the city. History frequency, but the point is they weren't supposed needed an easily-accessible place to train and by the river to their god of war and made it into generals over the centuries had built a handful of but by the time of Augustus it was still pretty commemorate his victories - not just because it Mars was the father of the twins Romulus and Remus meanwhile, traced his ancestry up to who was notably a consort of Mars. So this pairing by the match of their descendants, Rome and but the practical outcome was our favorite very concept of Rome. That meant restoring buildings like the Saepta Julia, a vote-counting even while he made a big show of restoring the of government was associated with the patronage cosmic in scope, as Augustus put an Egyptian sundial meridian, casting a shadow on a marble to Caesar's Julian Calendar. This Solarium of Egypt by flaunting an obelisk, but it was conveying the message that the Julio-Augustan that's not the only time he pulled this Augustus spent over a decade on a whole new forum, in celebration of his victory against Caesar's where public business was conducted under the galleries on either side: one of famous men from of the Julian family back up to Aeneas, both of also built a new Theater to honor his dead nephew Pompey's theater. There's a whole dynastic angle which, granted, is less obnoxious than to take all the credit, and was happy to let his well. Most famously, he made the first draft of he also built the first major public baths in the Virgo - one of two aqueducts overseen by Agrippa the third of which was used to fill the Naumachia, naval battles. The Romans are among the rare few something so immensely hardcore. So with all that built, we come to 13 BC, when and the Senate voted to build an Altar finished and consecrated a few years later in this wasn't a temple, it's a sacrificial altar. in and walls on all 4 sides, but there's no and many sacrifices were done outdoors. But it was another vehicle for, of course, Propaganda! the Ara Pacis was thick with symbolism, much of with bountiful fruit garlands and ox skulls in the walls have ornate floral patterns of Acanthus animals. And as with all classical sculpture-work, vine, &amp; figure were brightly-colored and gilded to new Golden Age that Augustus had created for Rome. Looking upwards now toward the business portion depicting mythological scenes. The figures are quite thoroughly trashed, but we can make some is the scene of baby Romulus and Remus with their While on the right side is a scene of sacrifices Pompilius, who has strong associations with peace so ehhhh? The back right panel has the goddess her own weapons or ones she confiscated. unclear. anyone from Pax to Roma again to Mother Earth to likely symbolize the people of Rome, surrounded sea on the other. Exact figures notwithstanding, show "here's what we came from" &amp; the back panels altar have paired processional friezes, possibly here depicting a religious procession from around shows politicians and the senatorial elite, while as a representation of The Senate and People of rendered so specifically that we can actually wife Livia, Agrippa and Julia, and even some royal pulling on Agrippa's toga so that he can see by the standards of, again, vigorous propaganda. celebrations of a plentiful Golden Age, and the political power and pushing this concept of the And by putting all this on the Field of Mars, the Pax Romana, and natural prosperity, of which The design of the Ara Pacis is so elegant, and in no small part because of powerful iconography monarchs again, because the results spoke for the symbolism is too powerful, as the Ara Pacis moment of Classical reception in the 1900s: by the Divine Son of the Deified Julius Caesar, subtlety was fully lacking in Il Duce Mussolini, of Augustan Rome was flipped on Turbo and used y'know, atrocities. So it's rather important that blindly glorify any civilization. We should because neither exists in a vacuum. Augustus weaselly rascal and I f***ing hate Augustan Rome is magnificent, the empire's new So as we might imagine, it wasn't all smiles be absolutely certain you are aware. The short on marriage, so our boy Ovid decided to write a or woman in Rome. As it happens, the How often quite follow but Rome was a different place every monument Augustus built. Unsurprisingly, thought of those wild youths using his carefully casual hookups, and Ovid got exiled to the Black Augustus also exiled his own daughter not have gone together, but it would have been Augustus died in 14 AD at the age of 75. By the the Old Republic was like, either because they was one of Rome's longest-serving emperors, he killed him every other year. Yeah, throughout this with Brutus, Cassius, and Antony trying to kill so lucky. See, being emperor and all, Augustus nephew Marcellus to become emperor, but then he you. So then he started preparing his stepson how about his two grandkids Gaius and Lucius options A-through-D exhausted, succession went benefit of hindsight, a terrible choice, up and down the timeline, he made their jobs a but a pretty thorough resume. Upon his death, basically "The Awesome Stuff I Did". Some of it but it shows what he thinks mattered most brought to Rome. At the end of the day, that's senator murdering and the human sacrificing it's and the moderate amount of deception underpinning but the Romans weren't about to argue carefully strategized political maneuvering, Augustus laid the groundwork for and that's a feat. His ascent to but this 19-year-old kid outplayed all of Rome, was a 75-year old man who is also dead. So... with Aah, the Roman Empire. Established by the this innovation in governance placed one which in turn ruled over the whole Mediterranean history of the Republic has shown, Rome is a dense Roman history is that the great Senatus Populusque Rome stretched from Iberia to Africa, the more provinces in the following centuries, but the victorious quiet of the Pax Romana. era had codified a new imperial identity for the standard for Roman culture. With so much Imperial Rome in these first 200 years AD was at make the most lavishly glorious civilization they of affairs gives us an opportunity to look at world, before, of course, everything starts to go how Mediterranean society reached its peak under we have... [Tiberius and Caligula crash into some shenanigans first. Because what the empire it makes up for in an absolute carousel of royal of Caesar or the cleverness of Augustus, and got up to in their abundant time away from their but the trainwreck fascination runs thin by rails and crashes into the nearest chaos-orgy. from historians and senators with axes to grind, that it's just best not to dwell on them: which I treat the emperors as glorified timestamps. So, heirs led to Tiberius' landing on the throne, island of Capri to enjoy the aforementioned whose nickname means "Little Boots", is remembered to insult the Senate and sending an army to he started a few notable trends: more building power on himself, and critically, being but it doesn't bode great for future emperors, so At the moment, the Augustan reforms ensured that or the personal whims of their generals, but the this setup lessened the threat of civil wars and point, the Roman military had reached peak form, were permanently stationed at the frontiers of On paper, there's quite a contrast between this of the royal palace, but by concentrating all of could function without obstructions or conflict. world transformed from &quot;Italy's Pile of Provinces" on the sea they called Mare Nostrum, the low cost goods, resources, and plenty of food to flow metals from Iberia, wines from Gaul, and scholars the empire, and even far beyond. As was often as new provinces made for new and exciting sources robust network of roads that was built to the single most beautiful sights I've ever laid the marblework doesn't stop there, because lest Concrete, domes, arches, water-highways that ferry HEATED FLOORS, the Romans literally had no chill a distinction between the quiet vibrance where they never built a thing for the sake of glory. The true Roman artists were the engineers bridges, aqueducts and baths. It's a practical, accomplishment and its usefulness to the empire, flourish. A really big one. To illustrate a few converging themes, let's extravagance: the Colosseum. This neighborhood swiftly to be replaced with a palace for the replaced again by the new emperor Vespasian - the after Nero's death. Vespasian's plan to legitimize the Roman people with a grand public project and it was done. This herculean accomplishment and technologies like concrete, but on an imperial projects possible. State-owned stone quarries materials which could be used for whatever the Slavery was just as vital to Rome's growth, buildings like the Colosseum relied in part on brickyards, then in working alongside freedmen and and once the Colosseum was finished, slaves fought Somewhere around a quarter of the empire's from the fields to the cities, the institution of between Rome's accomplishments and the cruelty of to the Roman people, as the Colosseum itself theater for the sole purpose of watching matches were the most notorious of festivities, and, when they were feeling bold, entire naval choreographed to represent famous stories from the Romans loved a violent spectacle. Zooming back out, let's jump northwest to onto the isle was later consolidated by Agricola, England during the reign of Vespasian. Britannia imperial era, and while its capital of Londinium it does show us how fast Rome could plop down of what seems like thin air. And while the city their later additions are planned so well it's its beautiful! And Roman Britain is surprisingly the historian Tacitus. His account of Britannia peoples: not treating them with any particular smoothly. A common strategy was to designate within the broader aegis of Rome's authority. This before direct Roman administration, or instead of diplomacy rather than throwing legions at it. their new subjects involved the "Barbaric" "Civilized", but the diversity of cultures what it meant to be Roman - as Rome was in turn most crucially, religion. Having more or less trouble seeing opportunities for crossover between how Rome treated Judaism. For one, Judaism was help that Rome and the province of Judea had bloody conquest by Pompey, a string of oppressive revolt broke out in 66 AD, whereupon Vespasian emperor) Titus. Jerusalem was ultimately sacked shows legionaries carting off a giant menorah, and of the second temple. There are faint echoes of monotheistic religion considered subversive to persecution of Christians was only a sporadic and Jerusalem or just bad luck, Titus got hit as emperor. In addition to another fire in Rome, Mount Vesuvius went kaplooie on the entire Bay of continuing some trends and resuming others after the fire, more power stripped away from the Praetorian Guard further bullied the new his heir. And for all the inherent corruption that really getting shiny. Trajan was a military master and built a triumphal column to commemorate how this newly-subjugated province paid for yet more forum in Rome, complete with two libraries. And anyone can spend money on their own palaces, was impressively-flashy but completely untenable, outward expansion, instead focusing on fortifying money on monuments across the empire. Rome hadn't as even the Philosopher-Emperor Marcus Aurelius against the increasingly-pesky Germans, but reality finally set in: all the rich or easy so the strategy of conquer everything that and this is where Rome topped out. That's far from "Good Emperors" presided over a Rome at the and there's plenty to respect in several decades wise rulers and a steady empire - But... and it won't be long until the Romans' legendary because the great SPQR always maintained the But for now, there wasn't a better time to inhabit to prosper from expansive trade, and to live but it was Roman Civilization at its best. And When discussing the history of Rome, it's points at which things seem to go very wrong. another general marches his army on Rome -- and But these are all fairly momentary crises; a bad catastrophe. Yet there is one truly abysmal A quintuple-barrel calamity for the ages -- and I'm not looking to cry today -- I'm talking by every reasonable prediction, should have in a classic twist of Roman irony, the causes of become the strategies used by Roman emperors for centuries to come. So let's take a look iffy state. The golden age of the last century was of truly garbage emperors, starting with Commodus But beyond the scandalous hedonism of emperors dangerous habits, like how emperor Alexander armies by ballooning their pay. To afford this, he with plebby dork metals, which tanked their this dynamic just gave the army leverage. In the of the emperor, but now, the emperor was just get strangled to death in a bath by his wrestling just replacing an emperor was, like, 5 praetorian one of the generals of course! And this was the but it saved the legwork of marching an army the first guy got axed, over 20 such "Barracks guys weren't the most legitimate since they heirs of the previous emperor, but heyyyy, you're provinces over is taking notes on how you got to it took was some general beating up some goths for the emperor!" and then they get ideas and suddenly squabbling left the door wide open for Rome's All of them. In the good old days, Germania was was subject to incursions, from the Rhine all the Franks, Marcomanni, Goths, and plenty others. looking for new lands to settle, while others they also sailed down the Atlantic coast and in 267. The Roman army was good, but it wasn't another was left wide open, but when the emperor general scheming for that big promotion. Meanwhile, the Eastern frontier was also spot for Rome since moneybags Crassus was Gold back in 53 BC. But Parthia rarely went on so all of Rome's failed campaigns were essentially Persian Empire which took their place in the 220s outward threat. In the 250s, King Shapur I pushed the Levant. The Sassanid menace would become a it came out of the gate real fast in the mid 200s. wherafter the King used him as a footstool. As limit our sample-size, it was miserable to be any debased throughout the century to bribe the and entire regions being destroyed by invasions 250s killed thousands a day in Rome and whittled drastically reduced the labor force available to soldier shortages. As if the actual wars weren't rampant, so cities and provinces spent what little forts along major roads. All of this made clear long gone, as it required the stability of strong were fully absent here in the 200s. Functions of who were only accountable to their very stab-ably so if those political and military foundations things could be alright. Now, believe it or not, the first three decades (and even a bit tame) compared to what went down Rome to his son and Co-Emperor Gallienus. Faced the time, he was happy to delegate the Rhineland Roman Germania. Naturally, it took all of five but not for all of Rome, just the western anything about this, so Postumus had free West that stretched from Britannia through Gaul parallel Roman institutions like the Senate trouble with the rest of Rome, he just wanted his out on the other end of the empire, where prince Shapur and began acting independently of the new defense of the east and granted him governorship Arabia. With only the Eastern front to worry his assassination in 267, when his widow Zenobia of all those provinces. Like in the west, this state allied to Rome rather than provinces within until 270, when Zenobia took advantage of a Galatia and proclaim her son as Imperator Caesar open revolt. Even then, the new emperor only cared And it's painfully telling that he could see part think "ehh, I'll double back to that one later, I was in favor of their annexation. It seems weird, the Gallic Empire were smaller, more nimble, more barracks emperors. It just felt good to know that rather than halfway across the sea and probably in Zenobia show that they did work in the interest of and with the power of an emperor. Both states paid looks on a map, were far less of a problem for the arguably, a help, as they each removed an entire wildly, set the stage for their later reconquest, first few years of his reign squarely on fighting and, uh oh, in Italy. In 271 he drove the Alemanni walls around Rome. He also organized a retreat Dacia, making the much-more-defensible Danube northern front temporarily settled, he turned Palmyrene territories by the end of 273, and then the Gallic state. To the empire's collective the singular authority of the emperor in just a Orbis, no small praise! With the World Restored, we're not out of the woods yet, because Aurelian following, things were definitely better but still a nonfunctioning economy, and more Frankish a new opportunity, and Rome essentially employed and farmland in exchange for letting them stay. centuries. So in the 250s and '60s the empire spiraled but the 280s and '90s are where Roman authority reforms of Diocletian. After his acclamation as firmly separated military and civil leadership to the Western seat of government up to Mediolanum residence in the Eastern city of Nicomedia. his most capable officers and made his general a new idea, but by placing Maximian in charge this arrangement looked awful similar to this time it was intentional, and formalized by line of legitimate succession. In 293 he expanded as Caesars to support the two senior Augusti. This each emperor had regional autonomy. By recognizing lines, Diocletian's Diet-Federalism turned a also snuffed the threat of civil wars by cutting governors had a clearer responsibility and less He also also grouped these new small provinces strata onto government. So in an insanely trolly empires were a trial-run of what Diocletian would one emperor, so, take it in parts. It was no Pax but it was enough! Diocletian's reforms and brought Rome out of the crisis on a much more two decades earlier. I think people get excited about Rome for Oh they conquered that!" those are all whatever -- into the pale face of death and tells him to wait own demise quite like Rome, and there's no greater to suffer five chaotic decades, but then learn out on top. Rome would die, but not yet. The beautiful city of Rome is great to visit winter, spring, summer, fall--ohno *beep, "The Fall of Rome". Going from one of the not existing at all is quite a long ways when, and even if are hotly debated, and the of Clue - It was the Vandals with the sack the Christianity in 312! Mmmm, clearly it was instead of trying to pinpoint specific answers to late imperial history to understand The Fall death of Rome's favorite philosopher-emperor, the shattered and the fall looked like it was coming damage - but in came Diocletian to Flex-Tape the at the turn of the 300s things were looking solid! retired from being emperor, taking a well-earned the Republican hero Cincinnatus, who'd saved Rome go home and farm. In the face of all the chaos was a monumental gesture, not only declaring that Virtues had likewise survived. One thing Diocletian really didn't count on was would immediately start fighting civil wars "When in Rome... sack it". In this somewhat enemy is just itself, a Western Augustus by the tetrarchs. In the fight for control of Italy and telling him to paint the symbol of Christ onto his the fate of the empire, you're not in the business the Battle at the Milvian bridge in 312. It's but whatever the case, he was convinced enough empire in 313 with the Edict of Milan, ending its from incorporation, as Christians had their One the pagan pantheon, but as far as the state was big hoist was to paint Christianity as compatible divine favor if it's good and pious. So whereas it could now be a team player. But the Eastern the mistake of not being Constantine, so our boy empire in 324 and founding an eastern capital Constantine was more successful at economic on foreign mercenaries for much of Rome's defense, consequences over the next century. Through the 300s, Rome held on. Administration sometimes there was one emperor, other times the re-outlaw Christianity, big mess - but in the wake little uneasy. So as long as nobody comes to rock a lot we could unpack about the false dichotomy is that the term "Barbarian" was coopted from past they were often allied with Rome to defend the Huns to the northeast. When these aggressors residents, Ostrogoths, Visigoths, lots of goths, option was usually into allied Roman territory, emperors often negotiated these relocations. So more of an awkward and bloody but managed domino and why these people became increasingly framework of Rome as vassal Foederati. Even in the their own entire kingdoms out of the provinces, in a remarkably-similar arrangement to the Gallic have all these barbarians at the edge of and even talk about ahem, Sacks Baby [Careless whisper as some Goths out east wanted to run away from so per the terms of their treaty, they asked and the Danube into the Balkans. They were joined but crossed anyway, and the provincial generals meeting the Eastern Roman army outside Adrianople more battles and negotiations, the result of all because what choice did Rome have? Once again, the state, but instead of the legions &amp; Roman generals to the Foederati and their kings. And what do state? They march on Rome! See, Roman traditions their request for more land and better treatment sacking it. The damage was honestly minimal, but striking distance was a real Oh Sh*t moment. Elsewhere in the early 400s, more western of Goths, Franks, and Vandals flowed in past the their own kingdoms. By far the scariest of these empire around the turn of the century and landed Pope Leo I, who rode out to meet their leader the well-timed apparition of a couple angels not destroy our empire thank you very much. convinced, and withdrew from his campaign to get city's respite from invasion was brief, as soon sacking, like, Vandalized. Pope Leo had less the Vandals not to kill people or destroy stuff on anyone they wanted. Still pretty bad! With all the Foederati getting out of hand in the east? Well, back in the 390s, Emperor Theodosius first was mandating Nicene Christianity as Rome's in practice was one step in a long and steady urban power-centers and spreading out to the other move was having his two sons each inherit before, and even since the Tetrarchy the but this division would prove to be permanent. The rough for the west, but this alone didn't doom that started to stack up: the west was poorer and and was almost fully reliant on Foederati for prioritize the defense of Italy, Britannia and and North Africa along with them, leading to Aurelian terrified. Gang, I don't think this a century the Roman empire had gone from this of king Odoacer conquered Italy and deposed sending word to the Eastern Roman emperor Zeno on your behalf", to which Constantinople said "I which Odoacer responded "You're welcome!" And with into a series of Frankish and Gothic kingdoms, and in 700 years. Unfortunately for our ability to 476 is less solid of an endpoint than we might had collapsed like the Republic before it, and peninsula did indeed go poof, but the concept of centuries, and Romans across the Mediterranean without a Roman State - even so, that culture Christian. Meanwhile, the Foederati had thoroughly and were often more than happy to preserve Roman kings of Italy retaining and even empowering world would remain fundamentally Roman in 600s. So just as Rome had created an empire long the death of the Roman Empire lands both earlier antiquity is absolutely fascinating, but and a few whys for the fall of Rome, but it's that it survived this long at all. It should have it should have fractured in the Late Republic and it should have collapsed during the And while on one level any civilization founded difficulty when that expansion stops, we should the unified empire was similarly no longer and adapted. While the empire died, parts of Rome the East, the Christian Church and the Pope in like literature, the culture of laws, and the Rome fell fascinates and even haunts us. It's this civilization, totally thrashed by a confluence of themselves in the Fall of Rome. Now, permit me sad ending to an otherwise-pristine civilization, Romulus gave his city a name. And their frequent successes, as they overcame unrelenting crises weaknesses, thinking practically, and adapting: fall was always there, but so was Rome. When the western Roman empire fell in 476 AD, noticing. The Roman senate still convened, the new and he ruled over Italy with the full approval of sacking Rome suffered 21 years earlier at the "Barbarian" though he may be, was painless. Any start of the century could say what monuments but even they had only known Rome since it became their battered city was the singular master of the its culture, and its state were already alone the glory days of Hadrian or Marcus Aurelius it was to depose the last Roman emperor in 476, Yet, as we will learn, there was a long way still the next half-millennium also saw Rome renew vital role in the new Medieval world as the seat ruins became a city of cathedrals. In answering what's essentially the question of we should start with Demographics, because it's groups began making themselves at home. For your boy Odoacer, who came to Rome with a Germanic Germanic agriculturalist families on the other. kingdoms whose people resettled in the empire with Latin didn't stop them from fitting in with played ball with the Roman aristocracy. Sure emperor Zeno had given Odoacer tacit approval to king Theodoric explicit approval to take it from killed the man during their truce dinner, and three decades as viceroy of the Byzantine emperor, paid to host games, restored temples, imperial the Senate a boost with coins inscribed "Senatus was more effective and arguably more Roman than as Theodoric pulled some crafty diplomacy Kingdom in Iberia, and also leveraged and Vandal Kingdoms into his vassal states. was once again a singular kingdom, lacking the the empire thrive, but it fared better than most cultural incentives and financial means to indulge and likewise the population decline of Late people increasingly opted for the countryside; but 535, when Theodoric's daughter Queen Amalasuintha Byzantine empire was conquering its way up into ensuing conflict between the new Gothic kings and but the undeniable loser was Rome. To simplify an embarrassingly-convoluted recaptured Naples through an aqueduct and soon ancient capital for the emperor in Constantinople because the new-new Gothic king came down to but Belisarius was recalled to defend the East and the peninsula fell right back under Gothic plundered everything left in Rome that wasn't city and turn it into a pasture, but relented on the basis that Rome stood as a monument to generations. Profound words, and broadly the state of the city in the mid 500s. Even with only tens of thousands of residents living dwindling catalogue of intact monuments. Aqueducts residents occupied the ruins of ancient became apparent when buildings large and or a particularly stuff breeze. And frequent of silt, burying old ruins and turning piles of destruction wasn't the work of sack-bois alone, consistently, over centuries, beyond what even the day in 546 when the Goths had the city forcibly because the hollow city flipped between Goths Byzantines finally held it for good in 552 and astoundingly-prompt incursion by the new Germanic in the 500s. But consider: Rome cannot die. It is trivial as death to claim it for long. Because so too could it be rebuilt, and that began with Normal for a few centuries, but it was here, that the institution of the Papacy had free authority in European Christianity to also its corner of Byzantine Italy. With the regional Rome paid lip service to the emperor through and capable leaders, leveraging their position as governors of the province. This evolved gradually themselves in controversy about religious artwork and killed the Exarch in 751, but in 756 the to the Popes for them to govern directly. developed under Pepin's son Charlemagne, who was later crowned by Pope Leo III as Emperor Rome had grown its religious power over Europe, and now had an entire empire in their pocket. This coming centuries, the status quo of European Charlemagne's ascension also set the role of Latin had regional variations, and spoken Latin was but without an empire there to enforce linguistic into the Romance Languages, sooner than you were softening consonants and merging vowel sounds "Latin", but it had diverged from the classical and Spanish. So Charlemagne's big swerve was fit a standard, classic-style pronunciation. But from everyday speech, Europeans began writing distinguish the sounds from Latin. So it's here while allowing these early vernaculars to itself over these centuries, so too was the actual Rome's first purpose-built Churches: like Saint St Peter's, all classically-styled but forgoing emulate the roomier Basilica structure used in standard design for European churches. Basilicas but the next few centuries were a little thin on the sacks therein causing the most concentrated despite the Popes' growing power and influence, splendor, as even this first batch of churches this constraint provided an opportunity, as reconsecrating the old Roman Pantheon as Saint for preservation! The city's ruins proved to be as old buildings could be retrofitted into and reused in churches, bronze statues could be could be broken down into lime for mortar. It's about it too hard or I'll cry about it, but it like the Aurelian walls were still perfectly fit move back into Rome after the Lombard conquests. asset was ancient prestige, because when the the Christian pilgrimage circuit, that left Rome and that meant business. For the average pilgrim arriving in Rome at the to encounter not one city, but seemingly three. uninhabited, as the population clustered by the Papal government operated in the Lateran to the by St Peters, which was enclosed by a newly-added Rome was still the largest city in Christian of income from tolls, taxes, pilgrim lodgings, and the occasional bribe all paid for shiny new renovate some aqueducts and infrastructure, for the city's poor. Pilgrimage was such big as the church confiscated the possessions of longer collect its payout by imperial right, they the Papacy, as there were still a dozen big noble ruins of the city, but that's a far cry from the and this political climate left zero room for tried to save it by lowering the property and headcount steadily eroded over the decades it was still sending embassies to the East, and but by 628 Pope Honorius had them disbanded, and more striking than deposing the child emperor institution of the Roman state had died with the ancient aristocratic tradition of causing powerful families vied for influence over the chaotic and extraordinarily debauched results - Constantinople was cemented by a religious schism, eastern Orthodox church. And three decades later, after all these centuries, the Gauls return to have we just witnessed transpire? Frankly, a lot of Roman society endured; the city shrank, but Byzantines, but became more independent; and religious diplomacy created an entire empire, became immortal, and, once again, a millennium of Belisarius couldn't have realized just how right of Rome - as these five transformative centuries capital, but as The Eternal City. You ever lie awake at night thinking wistfully thing? Sigh, this is so sad, Alexa, play Roman this is my jam. See, the big plot twist of the was off transforming into medieval Europe, for another thousand years. First question, what traits stuck to the classical roots, and period? To see how we got from point R(ome) with a barely-standing Roman empire now split easing the govern--ohhh no they're already fighting Flash forward 2 decades, Constantine reconquers and decides that the empire really needs a Byzantium at the northeast corner of the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean, and was closer to the so it would be the perfect spot for a new imperial Constantine consecrated the city in 330 as New you know, the first Rome. But reunifying an empire and introducing an and Constantine soon found Christians fiercely Academic discussion about church doctrine started rioting about it, so Constantine exerted under control. Instead of the vivid but he held the church-wide Council of Nicaea, binding orthodoxy of the empire. Now, this being can stop these people from finding an excuse to Council of Nicaea did the trick by establishing a Roman Christianity. In doing so, they coopted an power structures. Slick move. These two changes marked the start of the East's Old empire, but things really accelerated 3 sons got into a civil war with each other, dragged kicking and screaming into being the trying and failing to reconvert the empire to on a poorly-organized campaign in Persia. Then a absolutely nothing to solve the serious problems weak administration, and a wimpier army than Rome hard-carry to give the empire another century of wildcard idea (not actually all that wildcard) to Eastern and Western half. Other Emperors cut it always came back together one way or another; that the Byzantine empire officially gets going, Empire wasn't widely called "Byzantine" until as early as the 500s, but in specific cases and whole runtime, as far as its inhabitants were No ambiguity. Still Rome! Back to the western pretty poorly for them, but it put the East in a So if Theodosius indirectly sentenced Western Rome by responding to the perilous threat of Goths Classy. Meanwhile the Western emperors were too over into Rome getting sacked... twice. But the making everything Italy's problem. At the turn of fortifications and began building the Theodosian defended the city for the next thousand years. But even the strongest walls couldn't save the Romans loved their chariot races, and aligned Ah yes, I see no way in which this rabid tribalism control as the blues and greens evolved into politics and religion and started throwing hands the worst riots broke out during the reign of uncle and adoptive-father Justin came from humble rule the empire in one of history's rare-few was the power behind his father's throne. Justinian was falling in love with the famed the ultimate power-couple of the 6th century. But the influence of the Blues and Greens in politics, badly that they teamed up in open revolt. These poured out of the chariot stadium to light mode of political demonstration. The races Constantinople would regularly see their emperor, was an effective and ultimately common way of that the emperor step down. Just as Roman armies the centralization of power in Constantinople in a monarchy, the citizens held considerable dead. That's bad news for Justinian, who was ready but Empress Theodora told him to face his fate "May I never see the day when those who meet me do my lord, there is no difficulty. We are rich; Yet reflect for a moment whether, when you have not gladly exchange such safety for death. As for the noblest shroud." YES Basilissa, SLAYYYY. That badass this side of Cleopatra. Ahem, it's good, I'm good, we're good. The Nika massacre in the stadium, and Justinian was left having earned the brutal honor of being the only and succeed. So he made up for it by giving the Constantinople even shinier than before, and that In an evolution from your standard Roman Temples, move, the dome is ringed with windows, which cast and the halo-effect makes the dome look like it's the completed church, he exclaimed "Solomon, I still have this masterpiece of a church around design all throughout the eastern Mediterranean Dome. Meanwhile, Justinian was also hard at work one standard law book. The Corpus Juris Civilis this day. Justinian liked big ideas: one law, one church, point, because the Roman Empire had been you likely wouldn't have seen the Italians were decidedly much better at their and Italy still saw itself as Romans living in a Gothic Kings still consulted with the Senate! who simply wanted to paint the map purple, so he retake he did, because Belisarius, is a boss. the north-African coast from the Vandals of all a year. To celebrate his spectacular victory, an honor exclusively reserved for Emperors ever Belisarius launched his reconquest of Italy. This up the peninsula and inventive tactics like all the way into Rome and made Hannibal look like only to Roman generals, thank you very much. and surrounded the city of Rome for nearly a year, and the political capital of Ravenna. But the problem with investing manpower into much-more-consequential East lay severely exposed. of this, as he even joked with Justinian that as Belisarius, because he had the good manners Justinian obligingly paid Khosrau a share of course with that scamp Khosrau, because 6 years and then built a city he literally named Khosrau's no mere joke, but after an entire millennium of deeply familiar they couldn't help but respect genuine friendships even in the middle of great Persia were the Two Eyes of the world, chosen by fought, business is business, but as such, they to invade Mesopotamia in 540. So now Justinian found himself split between carving out pockets of resistance in Italy. And appearance of the Black Death, which ravaged have surely collapsed if not for the herculean while Justinian was actively in a plague-coma. In Ostrogoths sacked and destroyed Rome, leaving the to re-reconquer Italy from the boot to the alps. Ravenna, which soon became home to some splendid and architecture. As early as the 500s, Byzantines talent for mosaics to near perfection. Over the course of his four decades in rebuilt Constantinople, codified the laws, plague, and reconquered the west, or at least what Justinian's reign was a massive step in the his (arguably-misguided) efforts to reclaim empire no longer needed it. And it's just as the Lombards came across the alps, and by the end things were going somewhere between eh and oof. of the completely incompetent Phocas, so the and was personally indebted to him for his help war, and pushed all the way into Anatolia, before This is really bad, and would have probably been a of Heraclius, the son of North Africa's governor. and assumed control of the Empire. By combining was flexible and better able to repel the Persian a problem until it went away, knowing they could and that was it. Byzantine armies from here out use of force. So after a long and hard-fought Heraclius impressively pushed into the heart of to pre-war status, and both empires stood this would become all-too clear all-too soon, as out of Arabia, and neither Persia nor Byzantium Rashidun caliphate conquered the entire levant, well. Constantinople itself was threatened by an trick called Basically Napalm. This was a colossal had held for a millennium, to the point where the the Caliphate. But by the end of the century, entire southern Mediterranean for good. Meanwhile, What other front, you ask? Well, Slavic forces had in half and leaving the empire looking like a the time-honored Roman tradition of spectacular take solace in at least that. It's no coincidence that this chapter in the so-called "Dark Ages", hereafter exclusively got over 700 years left on the clock, so as we'll them. Amid all the land getting yoinked, it's easy what continuity is still there. The empire in and spread out over the whole Mediterranean. form of government that Rome's had for several this newly-Christianized empire was becoming far and they were, but we can associate them with closely reflected the classical Greek world, strongest literary legacy was in its preservation of all the ancient Greek texts we have today came Alexandria, it's the Library of Constantinople this Greekness and newfangled Christianity lets empire isn't really the authentic Roman empire that fundamentally Roman capacity to adapt and literally and figuratively, the Byzantine golden much gold mosaic, it's honestly kind of insane. delicate balance of simultaneously doing fantastic would be a contradiction, but the Byzantines brand. As we'll see over the next 500 years, the while the Golden Age endured some catastrophic the Byzantines kept on keeping on despite the longest-lasting empires in history. SO, let's see gained their golden reputation. When last we left our purple-robed friends, been swiftly yoinked by the shiny new Muslim neighbors had landed on Constantinople's doorstep by the very fires of Hell itself. See, the a secret substance that could be shot from a from the mast down to the surface of the water. from the Fall of Rome -- In addition to their they maintained hundreds of underground cisterns was better defended than Constantinople, but the as the Muslim armies were having their run of only in 740 that Emperor Leo III finally held the the other troublesome frontier by pushing back it took a century and a half, but solid reason that some historians have described this and they loved to have images of Jesus, Mary and in the eyes of people like Emperor Leo, this where images are worshipped more piously than smash every last image he could get his hands on. destroyed every mosaic, fresco, statue, and doubled down, and began persecuting the clergy for the Adriatic, the Pope in Rome was justifiably took the occasion to declare independence, which survive this mess. After Constantine died, his but Emperor Leo V reinstated it, and then it for good in 843. The final rules were that so the Byzantines got back to work with gorgeous snub visual realism in favor of stylized figures and that style governs eastern orthodox art to how pathetically few pieces of original art dreaded double-whammy -- I can take comfort knowing of continuity. For all the well-meaning damage the Iconoclasts the Byzantine military and government by, as back in the classical days, Roman Provinces had Legions to show up from Jupiter-Knows-Where. so the Byzantines reconfigured their armies the provinces were gradually redrawn as Themata, Strategos, overseeing both the civic and military imperial legions, Byzantine Themata each had their and funded by land grants within that Thema, wellbeing of the state. Though the empire the extremely perilous eastern front went fortress -- the Byzantines were stronger and were also hard at work protecting the empire, as military manuals. Books like the Strategikon laid generals in the field. The empire was well past it out in big decisive battles and raise a fresh frontier waiting to pounce at the first sign of So campaigns were won by carefully calculated was all a game of restraint and flexibility, so adopting outside ideas. Those are the big picture swerves, but the tactics upgrade, trading raw manpower for peak efficiency. stayed in fashion by remodeling the old Roman they ditched the Scutum for the hotness that name Skutatoi literally means "Shield Boys". the Toxotai archers, but the biggest and baddest They were basically hoplites on horses, with in scale armor. Their name technically means as "Full-Metal Cavalry". Kataphrakts traced their but came to prominence here as a counter to the around the poor Skutatoi, but eventually the and a byword for Byzantine power. Infantry and Kataphraktoi would hammer through the weak points saying it in English - Karaphracts - it's cool you get Kataphraktos, and then you really just me? Ah fine whatever. So as an empire that's about 75% coast, the in the Aegean, along the Mediterranean, and on navy. In the world's best case of "If It isn't version of the Trireme, some 2,000 years later, known, had been upgraded with a Lateen sail and and of course, Greek fire siphons. Plus, instead ancient Athenian doof, the Dromoi were equipped them, for ease of boarding and/or burning. Slick to stop repeated Muslim incursions into Crete, the mainland coasts, the islands of the Aegean, Constantinople via the Bosphorus river. With Iconoclasm over and the empire no longer the Byzantines entered two centuries of prosperity who I can't help but picture as a leaf, a line of through its Golden Age, the peak of imperial With the Muslim armies to the east &amp; south at their attention to the Bulgarians, and used them via conversion to Christianity. They did the which set Eastern Europe with their quasi-Greek brand of Orthodox Christianity. In return, Varangian guard, a legendary band of Scandinavian guard for centuries. Now this was no Pax Romana - and the Bulgarians even swiped northern Greece in II a century later - but compared to the way By the year 1,000 it held half-a-million people, magnificent city in the world. Hagia Sophia new decorations after iconoclasm. Times clearly window into the classical world, with Roman-style marble and porphyry as far as the eye could see. it was the keystone city of the Mediterranean, a trade, work, and live - Just as there were city, so too was there a Mosque for the city's Romans never missed an opportunity to commemorate empire, Byzantine architects were hard at work monasteries. But funnily enough, our best looks at empire, but from its rivals. To the west, Venice oddest frenemies, because as much as they used prosperity for themselves, they were the most Seriously, between Saint Mark's Basilica and the golden-age art. Then to the north is Saint Sophia Ukraine's Byzantine Orthodox legacy. Culturally, things had never been better, but were starting to show. The Byzantines had been of Anatolia, but the empire was more comfortable and the carefully-constructed Themata system began ignored their civic duties to play Monopoly-Men and gold-covered domes, cushy bureaucrats in their books. So each camp blamed the other for the fix it. The emperor didn't help matters by on the Tagma, a standing army meant primarily extremely precarious position, spread too thin and to stab your enemies with a limp spaghetti. To to conquer the last Byzantine pockets, and to the hard that Anatolia just disappeared. And they Byzantine army deserted en-route to the battle of of miscalculations on their way to an entirely that doomed them, after Manzikert, the Byzantines 1075, the empire had never been smaller or weaker. about Hubris, but apparently not! And unfortunately for our Grekbois here, the between the churches in Constantinople and and One Empire went kaput as soon as the southern in Rome remained nominal at best. When the Papal formality. Communication between east and west was Latin and how few Italians spoke Greek. And tiffs whether the Pope had supreme spiritual authority own business. These views were... fundamentally a head when a Roman delegate excommunicated the Sophia in the middle of service, daaaaaaamn (but excommunications of their own, and just like that realized the implications, this marked the final and the Eastern Orthodox church. But one Byzantine emperor saw this as a rare of civil war to assume the throne in 1081, and his Byzantine fortunes throughout the 1100s. He made new trade agreements with the Venetians, and to Pope Urban with the offer to recognize Papal to help with the Byzantine reconquest. But Urban's up sending along several armies'-worth of European this right: Retake The Holy Land? That wasn't our life now, so now Alexios had to wrangle this Jerusalem so they didn't Deus Vult all over were much more excited to conquer their own new and subsequent crusades would only entangle the European politics, earning nothing but antagonism Normans were constantly poking and prodding into a monopoly on Byzantine trade. But despite all than they first got it, having reclaimed coastal supervision, and continued to make churchloads of Anna Komnene composed an epic poem about the reign first woman historian and absolute literary the Byzantine motto at this point -- definitely of Byzantine history, the empire was in a really smashing all of their art -- but it's no accident revitalize their culture. The Byzantines survived, being clever and never giving up -- The Thema and it bought the Byzantines an entire as time went on they got a little careless, but turned things around, again! I don't just like I love Byzantine history because they're a it doesn't matter how you get knocked down, or how or Anatolia too, wow they've really been through is that you keep on trying no matter what, because track of just how long-running the Byzantines getting Goth-smacked into oblivion in 476 AD, the Constantinople, was, by comparison, doing pretty and the Byzantine Empire evolved into a gorgeous medieval Christian culture. But unfortunately domes couldn't prevent the infinite abyss of to come. Between Persians, Goths, Arabs, Turks, it's safe to say the Byzantines could not catch this distinctly Promethean trend, where they Eagle without ever actually dying from it. As we Golden Disaster Empire managed to keep on thriving most Garbage of circumstances. So, let's see how and even then, kinda slipped past the deadline. with the fall of the Empire - about two we're making great time. Because long before the were struggling to coexist with the Italian on. Venetian and Genoese traders tussled in the were street gangs in Shakespearean Verona, but on the problem by arresting and then murdering Bad look. This Giant Yikes was compounded by the whose constant infighting left the empire woefully powers of Europe launched Crusade Numero 4 on the To the ensuing surprise of precisely nobody, it army getting excommunicated by the Pope before at the end of the Crusaders' tunnel was prince military support in exchange for reinstating his ignoring the key rules from Alexios Komnenos' Under Any Circumstances, Do Not Ask Crusaders it is not worth it. Rule #2: If the Crusaders your empire as fast as humanly possible. Do your Crusaders are inside your empire, never for violent, and prone to fits of disproportionate spectacularly on every point - And, spying the Crusaders simply sacked Constantinople. but by this point the Byzantines Really approximation of Literal Hell On Earth for the the Crusaders desolated the art and architecture the priceless relics of Constantinople mindlessly burning and/or murdering everything Constantinople still ended up ruined, and the Venice, the crafty little devils, chose to Franks installed a Latin emperor on the Byzantine the Byzantine Empire breaks right here: the which so long preserved the Greco-Roman world shake that damn Hellenic persistence, as Byzantine in the wake of the Crusade, in Trebizond, Nicaea, their new Frankish overlords in Mainland Greece, post-crusade money-pot. But the Franks quickly got soon became weaker than the assorted Byzantines surprised? The three Hellenic states started out on the strategy and good old-fashioned luck gave Nicaea a an old-fashioned Big Ideas guy, and he retooled and aggressive, allowing him to campaign on Anatolian coast and gain a foothold in Thrace Constantinople kind of by accident. While a small defenses, they learned that the Frankish army was small break in the wall, opened a gate, and then the Byzantines, it's only fair that the RNG Just Emperor Mikey-mike Pabbity-labbity soon found his cleaned since the crusade half a century earlier, Byzantines from cutting quite as Imperial a than the alternative. As we've seen, it was hard enough to defend the but with the emperor now presiding over a shells of their former selves, the more impressive but in keeping it. Tricky, but not impossible, the needs of the moment, and a weakened empire inconsistent resources. So they got clever: their the Pronoia by applying it to the military - them local taxation rights rather than paying and charge of all the contracts and could revoke this functions like a militarized version way back in the Republic! And according to manpower seems to have just... shown up whenever retained the iconic heavy cavalry, paid for by and all supported by a throwback to Polis-era sure, and the implied desperation is apparent, illustration for how old Greek and Roman ideas diplomacy was the sharpest weapon in the Byzantine and Genoa made this difficult, as their schoolyard down in Constantinople. And of course, there were hired a band of Catalan mercenaries who went rogue of Athens for the next 7 decades. But even this Byzantines would endure. As, in 1343, the royal so the former-empress Anna pawned what she Despite selling Constantinople's royal honor I should say, was a civil war, against the kind of fuster-clucks the Byzantines regularly last emperor Andronikos left a beeby 9 year Anna sought to rule as regent, but Andronikos' be co-emperors until the kiddo was old enough. class lines and featured its very own religious wife Irene were officially coronated in 1347, like every other Byzantine artifact, so glass - augh God that's so sad it Hurts; forget Johnny P turned 20 a few years later and threw so this whole tragedy was a giant waste. Yet, somehow, despite all of that, hardly the fun surprise: Plague. Man, it does not let up. not dally here, friends, we all know the drill, the Ottomans over in Anatolia. See, back while our several tiny principalities sprung up in the east not the drink, that's the Arabic and Turkish each individual Beylik was eager to carve out most adept and dynamic of the bunch. From their their own military skill, a diplomatic talent other, and the convenient apparition of Plague a century. Of course, the Ottomans were not Roman Sunni Muslim state with unique institutions many societies who found themselves in the Roman the center. This wasn't a rivalry between the and this wasn't a surprise arrival of a brand-new in the grand scheme of Roman history, the last Roman world was a lush and expansive grove, enjoying that fruit. The Ottomans' rise would clear they were the next big Muslim power, at of Constantinople, there were four fundamental health: The Ottomans were gaining strength and into their personal battlefield, and the complete dependent on those two for trade, then, to cap it and succession crises -- let's not kid ourselves, here. With worries like that, fully rebuilding picking their battles and biding their time, which the Ottomans. But, ever defiant in the face of Empire was shrinking down to Just Constantinople, side of the Aegean. Back when Michael Palaiologos was tripping he also had the good fortune of capturing the him back in exchange for a few castles down in were well-fortified among the mountains, much like the next two centuries, this distant Byzantine the Hellenic world, as Greeks from the Morea and and pick up where the empire left off. So in the culture and scholarship. And, I mean, look, I'm corner of the Greek world is on par with the but I will come to bat for the Morea as a paragon trying even after everything seemed lost. No I'm in my eye, shut up. *Ahem. Anyway, like with required a gentle diplomatic touch, but the game and mountains on the 4th. And with Constantinople Ottomans, it became clear that the Morea could By the early 1400s they expanded outside Lakonia had authority over Attica. The Byzantine Morea emperors-in-waiting got their political training where the last emperor Constantine XI was actually Uh oh, did I say last? Yeah, about that. The thing with the Ottomans is they didn't... and the too-little-too-late help of European it was clear the show was wrapping up. By 1453, city of Constantinople, and by means I mean the Bosphorus and cutting off the city's line of walls and poured in. Emperor Constantine is said before charging into where the fighting was battle, the Sultan toured the city and was he preserved it and converted it into a mosque, as was more often the move. But even after this (he said, moving the goalpost the Byzantines. For one, the Ottomans continued and ethnic Rhomaioi would play a meaningful administrators, artisans, sailors, Kostantiniyye remained the keystone city of the it had been in centuries. It's disingenuous breached the Theodosian walls in 1453, that but when the man declares himself Kaysar-I Rum, new Caesar, he is both conqueror and builder - he took it, yes, but he did not destroy it. It's world, where Hellenic culture persevered and of Other People's Empires. There's an old saying Rome" describing how Hellenic culture always and that has never stopped being true, be it Republic's outlying territories in the Aegean and they played an outsized role in bringing classical Greece contributed mightily to the budding for art and scholarship that mixed traditional despite the earth-shattering treachery of ironic end-result is that Venice played a vital culture -- Man that is uncomfortable to say out of Greeks in Constantinople ruling their ancient of the Byzantine Empire is essentially "Why didn't always on fire?" Because, on one level, yeah, the the map getting smaller, but that time-lapse would not forget they had over 1,000 years. By some that far because at no point in Byzantine history because they believed that they had something and their identity that was worth dying for mini-golden-age was a distant memory, that them going in even the most dire circumstances look back at the empire to ask why the Byzantines reason as when Constantinople fell in 1204, but And here we are - that's it. That's the history the Tiber to the fall of the Basileia Rhomaion and that's not quite the entire story, as I easily or followed the progression of Roman literature never the goal here - This was, as concise as I of Roman civilization across more than 2000 but certainly not a definitive one. Notably, my history of Roman statehood ends where classical art and scholarship would and continue to influence Western culture up Germany sat at the helm of a Roman-inspired Empire the Roman legacy left a massive impact original Roman state was gone. Because by the year 1000 Rome remained the cultural language, art &amp; architecture, literature, the civilization cultivated by the Byzantines reign of the Sultan. Even when those states died, them home carried on regardless. Rome always true outside their Mediterranean heartland as it afield in the Medieval period than any legion had empires made classical Greco-Roman scholarship they created. Then far away in a once-unknown to the ancient Republic as a model for their new is their language of Latin, which lives on through hybrid cousins like English. If you can understand odds are pretty damn good that you live in a it's not the first layer of European or Christian not even the most obvious layer sometimes, but it with the world, how we understand our societies, but it earned its place as our mess too. so so much, for watching. This is the culmination channel, and it's so fulfilling to bring all those comprehensive documentary's-worth of storytelling. our lovely patrons for making a project this take the absolute thickest nap imaginable, and