(gentle chimes) - [Falcon] Usually games, to stop you from using it the wrong way or making it collapsing on itself, but I like it when games let you do that. So let's talk about some. Hi folks, it's Falcon 10 games that actually Starting off at number 10, it's &quot;Noita.&quot; Yes, I say it like it's a D, Don't talk to me about But anyway, &quot;The Binding of Isaac,&quot; &quot;Slay take pretty much any major Roguelike, you got a game that's just with the most overpowered builds possible. It's a big part of the you know, getting that perfect God run where everything clicks. These games can get pretty damn nuts with the right lucky build, But out of all these where you can really break Now the thing that makes it's a highly systematic game. The world follows certain smoke spreads realistically, different kinds of rock break And you got these crazy spells They can alter the world in all sorts of crazy and unexpected ways. Throw spell mods in there and some absolutely broken but in this game's case, you'll need them because &quot;Noita&quot; is a &quot;Noita&quot; is absolutely a you type situation. (bombs exploding) I will say the devs have gone some of the most absurdly but most of what you can do is fair game. Like you can use spell that make your magic projectiles You know, it should make them weaker but it actually gets way stronger, or just blow black holes that summon more black holes around. The possibilities make and they are virtually endless. It is up to you to find the necessary wand spells and but you can do that. I believe in you. One of the most satisfying comes through the Luminous drill spell combined with the Ping-pong path modifier on a wind with a ton of mana, you'll be able to delete just anything that stands in your way with deadly lasers that and I'm scratching the surface. I'm a &quot;Noita&quot; neophyte, I don't pretend to be I hadn't really played it until Steam started blasting it in my face every time I started the program up and I, all right, I'll try it. As it turns out, it's fantastic, but it's not just a good game. It's also fascinating to even if you don't know (water bubbling) And number nine is &quot;Baldur's Gate 3.&quot; At first, &quot;Baldur's Gate 3&quot; And if you wanna play it normally that's pretty much what it ends up being, but if you dig a little deeper, you find that it is actually a sandbox where there's a million in one ways to utterly decimate the game with all kinds of unintuitive tricks. Many of these things just combine the right equipment and suddenly you can and get a sneak attack for every before an enemy can act. It is, it's simple exploits like separating party member and always starting a so the enemy group always or, you know, throwing because of how overpowered they can be. There's a classic box trick where you fill a box with an then it becomes insanely heavy and it kills them instantly. Or do something completely absurd like a using an improvised dragging them back into a dark alley for your gang of miscreants to (ominous music) - [Narrator] Picked a fight. (epic music) - [Falcon] It's kind of crazy how many ways you can but most of the time it's not - Gaerdal Ironhand, hear Wait, what in the hells? - [Falcon] And number One of the more interesting phenomenons in the Metroidvania genre is when developers and sequence breaks purely to facilitate speed running. Old games like &quot;Super Metroid&quot; were full of game breaking but they were unintentional, albeit they created a bit of a tradition of spending weeks and years you know, stuff that breaks So, like I said, it evolved into actually just devs intentionally leaving room for some game breaking on purpose to amuse the hardcore audience. Metroid Dread is one such game where they could have easily cut you off from getting certain equipment but they didn't. It's tricky to pull off, but with some careful jumping, it's possible to get the and you could use that stuff The trick here is to bomb a It opens up a launcher that where you can use bombs It's an exploit, but one that because none of this would be possible without getting the bombs first. (epic music) &quot;Metroid Dread&quot; isn't where you can break it, they actively encourage At number seven is &quot;Skyrim.&quot; Half the fun of Bethesda games The developers know and intentionally leave in 'cause everyone loves them. It's also possible they to be fair. And it's not as though of it is the best one, all but &quot;Skyrim&quot; is probably the The absurd enchantment It's a little tricky but it's such a perfect example of why Bethesda games still especially older ones. The basic trick here is to improve your alchemy then with the alchemy that makes your enchantment skill better. While under the effects of the potion, you make a new piece of equipment which will then be more effective because of the alchemy boost. And then you make some new and just keep doing that over and over until your enchantment skill is far beyond what it should normally be. And that's when you or magic enhancements and you delete anything just, it's just gone. (character growls) Stuff like this is built It's not something you're but it's just that you're doing something in an unconventional way that the developers haven't anticipated or I mean at this point they because they've left it in in other games. Although I will again argue in later games. Like I think &quot;Fallout 4&quot; where all of this was I think it's all to a lesser degree now and feels more intentional and that, to me, makes it feel less charming. I don't know, it's just really I'll say. (guard groans) - [Lod] What the... (guard groans) - [Lod] Murder. - [Falcon] At number six You can't really break like other games on the list. It's a puzzle game, but is the way the game that would normally not be If you're just going the puzzle rooms are but each world tends to have secrets that can only be discovered by doing things like sneaking using them in an unexpected place. (somber music) Shooting lasers out of which can then be sent some distant part of the map. It goes hard actually. Sometimes it just involves you using boxes and jumping to places you don't think you're which is like my favorite If you show me a place that but I'm not supposed to, I will get there. The thing is, in &quot;Talos Principle,&quot; it's all meant to be in the game still it feels like breaking the game, especially the trickiest ones. Now that's outside the usual to complete many of the They're usually trickier to set up, but sometimes the wrong solution is the one that's easiest for The best puzzle games are the ones that you don't have to even if in hindsight it It's just so much more satisfying when a game lets you blunder into completely unexpected (somber music) At number five is &quot;Legend of &quot;Breath of the Wild&quot; may have but Tears is the game You could do some pretty but nothing compared of Ultrahand and Fuse. The game lets you build all that fall apart in seconds, but with the right combos you can do some absolutely absurd shit. Make an infinity flying a hover car, a spinning automated death machine that can kill anything in seconds. Just strap a bunch of give it a tread and have at it. (thunder buzzing) Building a spinning death that shoots fire at the same time and also electrifies I'm sorry, I'm kind of but you can do all of these things. I mean I kind of wasn't I felt like I was making it (playful music) There are things that you have I mean I may not have but you have to get some and this engine and you have to exploit Like there are parts that you have to fuse them to a weapon and take the weapon to Tarrey to use that part outside of a shrine. And then you just make a blueprint and now you have an infinite supply of something you're not supposed to have. It's a good trick. I like This stuff is all purposefully but then smuggling weapon parts I guess. I don't know. To some extent this point is because essentially that (playful music) At number four is &quot;Castlevania: We're going way back to the PS one, at least according to the game's directory it wasn't meant to be, but they kind of went overboard with that. When you play the game, you you feel like you're breaking the game like it feels like you're 'cause you, I mean it gets crazy. There's a ton of ways to trivialize the difficulty One of the easiest ways is to kill this enemy called the Schmoo in the Forbidden Library. They're a chump and normally but they have a rare chance of dropping the most absurdly specifically a sword that It does devastating damage and you don't even have it just attacks on its own while you're just marching forward. (techno music) Yeah, it's basically vampire Wouldn't be shocked if that's for that game given the, you know, thing. But I mean that's powerful, but it barely feels like an exploit because you just find it. The shield rod is a lot more It's pretty easy to find, that I don't think is actually explained anywhere in the game. If you press the attack and with the shield rod and it performs a secret skill. The most powerful combo, to put it mildly, is the Alucard shield makes it so if you're holding the shield, you do crazy amounts of damage per second, restore health with every hit and are essentially It takes a while to actually but once you have it, the including the game super hard (epic music) And this is all apparently on developer's part. Those are only the two most There's so many other ways that it would be basically impossible to list all of them here. I mean, I'm still learning new ones and we're getting perilously close to this game's 30th frigging anniversary. There's just so many little in &quot;Symphony of the Night&quot; that the game breaking (epic music) - [Alucard] Go back to the Abyss! Trouble the soul of my mother no more. - [Dracula] How? How could I have lost? - [Falcon] And number This Roguelike isn't all that different from other deck building Except one major exception. The gimmick of this game is that you're playing with underlings who do your bidding. They have their own health bars, but once they're down enemies sort of like &quot;Yu-Gi-Oh&quot; a little bit. I think that's how that works. I'm not gonna lie, I don't spend a lot of time Your hit points are but they let you do a lot more This stuff is it basically That's where the real power and it's built right in the game. By spending Essence you can do all kinds of game breaking things like lowering enemy health, steal status buffs from enemies, even improve your odds in random events. It's basically an &quot;I win&quot; button, right? You can press it when you really need it and it swings everything in your favor. But at the cost of a precious resource that can't always be replenished. In that way it's actually not but the way that cheating is built in the game's play systems and actually innovative Some of its other systems are but Devil Mode is a brilliant idea. - [Devil] It's high time I interfered. (eerie music) Limit to my power is my imagination. Crawl, mortals! from now - At number two is the &quot;Outer It's another game where exploiting, I mean, it's part of the game. Spoilers ahead 'cause if this is gonna totally So in &quot;Echoes of the Eye,&quot; you find this mysterious space station that's seemingly abandoned that when used in certain locations seems to transport you to That surprise, surprise turns the game into one of the most terrifying (eerie music) At least, until you learn the secret. The way to truly advance in this place is to understand the 'Cause the dark world is actually a simulation. And that lamp you got is You might spend hours cowering in fearing and trying to avoid getting But once you begin to understand all the stuff that seemed really scary suddenly seems totally pointless. There's a lot of ways for your own benefit. Like if you drop the lamp somewhere and then walk away in the light, you're suddenly finding outside the simulated environment. You're essentially no And in this state you can and they can't do a damn thing to you. They've been neutralized to but entirely intentional trick. And figuring this out is just one of the many but it's the one that really as though it's open, so to speak. (eerie music) And finally, at number Double Fine &quot;Legend of Zelda&quot; but it's not quite that 'cause instead of a sword, you use a USB. And instead of hacking enemies to pieces, you literally hack them That's the primary gimmick of the game. And I mean, you actually and tinker with it to do things or make them join your side or just take away their There's a point in the game where you can give yourself by forcing the game to where you got a 10 HP health boost and this is just part of the game, it's something they expect you to do. It's essentially a kid friendly way to learn about game programming. And while you can just like altering values and there are endless ways and like really monkey around with it. (eerie music) It's not just possible, but highly likely you can break the game entirely or teleport yourself to somewhere you're Or in some way screw yourself and hopelessly mess up some It's just 'cause you and you can do whatever with it. It's a game that is designed to be broken in every possible way. It's not just about giving the illusion you're breaking the game, but you're on the rails The game files are open to you and you're free to do as as possible. As an introduction to game programming, it's one of the best games out there. It really lets you just in a way that no other game really does. And I mean that's really cool, especially if you're making a list where you're looking for ways I mean, that's kind of the ultimate one. It's at the number one, you know? Anyway, that's all I've got for you. Leave us a comment, let Don't forget to press like. We upload brand new videos and best way to see them is, of course, the subscribe button. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much I'm Falcon, you can follow me We'll see you next time