That's the best one yet. Science guys! Hi, I'm Josh. And today we're gonna ask the question, In the UK fries are called chips, confusingly If you go into a pub, and you just order a plate of chips. They'll often say, do you want normal chips, So I was thinking. The more cooked the fancier it gets! But what about quadruple cooked chips, quintupled, decoupled? The way you do it, is you boil, fry, cool We don't have time for that! Gonna take all day! So I went online and I bought 20 kilos of dry ice. Oh my gosh! In between frying, we don't have time to wait half an hour. Instacool! We've got a deep fat fryer, we've got a deep fat freezer! This is insane! Look at that, so that is dry ice, which if I'm not mistaken is frozen CO2 right? It literally says on the back, do not play that this is not a party game. Let's get frying! This is a double-cooked chip, boiled and fried once. Alright, here we go. First try. That's a chip. It tastes like a normal chip. How would you rate that out of a hundred, 50? 60. We now need to cool them. All of the guys started like this. They're in a lab coat, they've got no They changed the world through science. And this is what we're about to do. I think it's ready to go back in the fryer. Oh my gosh! Totally fine, cool. What's coming up next, is a triple-cooked chip. That looks like a triple cooked chip if I ever saw one! Look at that! That's pretty good, that's pretty good. That a proper triple cooked chip! Kids remember that science always works. That's good. Significantly crunchier on the outside, but still I would say with this though, I want it to be crispier. I'm ready for quadrupled cooked chips. Cool those chips! Yes, look at that! Science! That I would say is at least an 85, that was a very good chip. Wow! There's a reason that people stopped at I'm dubious that we can get any better than that. Alright, let's do this I'm putting this back in Josh. Now, we are officially in uncharted territory. No one has ever done this before. I don't think that's true. No one has ever done this before! Quadrupled cooked chips guys. We could put a layer of dry ice on here. So it straight away becomes cool. Not too much, not too much, that's enough. What's that sound, what's that sound? Put it back down, it's like the ice was crying out for mercy. Oh my gosh, what is that sound it sounds alive. It sounds like someone screaming. I think it's the souls of the potatoes escaping. Wait leave it. Some of them are more browned than others I've noticed. This guy, oh yeah, see that, crunchy looking. Holy crap, that's incredible! That is good! It's better than triple cooked, it's the perfect chip. That's a 90! I think that's a hundred. A hundred! You cant jump up to a hundred, 99. Gotta leave some space, 95 how about that? You do it and I'll blow the science. I think we are actually making discoveries here. Genuinely. How has no one done this before? Quintuple cooked chips. Wowzers! Why is it making that sound? Can somebody in the comments please tell us It's still really really soft on the inside. But it's really crispy on the outside. It's like a crisp, as in a chip, for the This is a chip in both worlds, American chip Do you think this improves on the last one? Yeah! I'm beginning to question. I knew you would start to naysay. I don't know if want a crisp on the outside of the chip. Pouring scorn all over it. Listen to this. It feels like a crisp on the outside, but I would rate that the same as a quadruple-cooked chip. One better. Ok, 96, yeah your right. Let's cool it. Science! Science. So we just did quintuple, whats next. Sextuple. I must say I'm intrigued with every round now. Do you think it's just gonna keep getting I think the outside is gonna get crispier, And it's gonna slowly get to the core of the chip. Until they're basically chip-sized crisps. Sextuple cooked chips! They're looking a little overcooked now, I'm not gonna lie. They're beginning to look less appetizing. No, I disagree I think they look amazing! Question is, is the inside still soft? It's still soft in the middle! It's still soft and potatoey in the middle. This is the magic of dry ice cooling in between cooking. Sextuple cooked chips, sexy by name sexy by nature. Easily the best so far. You think that's the best? What you talking about how is that not the best? Yeah no fair enough. I think 99. Ok, give it 99. Alright, let's do it, go again. Science. It does work! Of course, it works! It feels like we're nearing the limit. It feels like we're in a fighter jet and We're Icarus and we're getting slowly closer to the sun. We can make it! Septuple cooked chips, let's do this! That was definitely the saddest sound yet! That was hard to get through. Yeah, this is solid! I'm still optimistic though. Have we just found a new cooking method. That's the best one yet! Josh, we shouldn't release this video, we've made a discovery. That tastes similar to a really well-cooked and crispy on the outside but soft and fluffy on the middle. If you don't believe how soft this is on I mean we should be real, there are some chips that haven't made it this far. I mean look at this poor sucker this guy's had a bad day! Science! We've rated the last one 99, this is better. 101 percent. 101 out of a hundred. Put them in. Wow, we're blasting through lucky number 7. I can't believe this is working, I genuinely can't believe has worked so well. That last chip was incredible, it genuinely was! We just rated a chip 101 out of a hundred! That is extremely cooked! That is solid! Lets give it a try. It's a hell of a lot crispier! I dunno about yours mate, but mine is still soft on the inside! Look at that! Can you see how soft that is on the inside? Science! You idiot. Controversial opinion, I think we've peaked. That was good, I was more amazed that it was still soft. That's it, it's one level too cooked. Whereas the previous one, it was the perfect amount! It was perfect. I'd say it's a 95. Your gonna drop all the way down to 95? Actually no, maybe 99. Yeah, I'd go back to 99. I think we're progressing back down the ladder at a similar rate. The thing about the visual that makes that a chip that colour you immediately presume They just look like florida retirees that have spent too long by the pool. 9, what is it nontuple cooked chips. We're scraping the bottom of the deep fryer. Of the oil, of the deep fat fryer. That is hard. Just listen. Do you think it's gonna be soft inside? The thing is, my fork, I had to jam it through I think there's gonna be some softness inside. Ready? There's a bit of softness in there. Does it still look soft? It is! it is! That is crunchy! There is technically some soft potato in there. But it's covered by such a strong layer of crisp. This is honestly Darth Vader, there is good in him but not much left. These are borderline inedible. Nontuple cooked chips, 40? I'd give at 65, it's better than a soggy I'll compromise, 59. Get it back in the fryer. I can't get out of my head how good that We should make them again at some point. Lets promise to do that again otherwise I'm No one asked for that, it got on my leg! Why did you spit on your hand? How about this? Wowzers! Decuple cooked chips. Like a pickaxe. You could hit a nail with that. Literally, that is solid! Is there anything soft in that? It actually tastes burnt. If I squish that, is it even gonna be squishable? I can't squish it! Ok, it's not really squishable. There's a little bit in there Josh. You can tell look, look at that! I reckon Sir Richard Attenborough could extract Science! What do we rate that? 10? That was bad. Yeah, maybe a 9. The question is, we're already down to 9 It almost feels like they've stopped cooking, there's nothing left to cook. Undecuple cooked chips. I think we've taken it a step too far. We have. Look at that! Very very crispy looking. I feel like trying to review how that tastes So bad! That's minus bloody a hundred! Minus a hundred. So the optimum is 7. Yes, that's the answer to the question. Science! Science guys! Yeah! Can you submit yourself for the Nobel prize? It's the best thick-cut chip I've ever had! You said it, it is amazing! Well, we'll see you JOLLY soon. See you later guys, bye.