Okay, as we all know, the square root but have we ever thought Oh well. As you know, and when you put the do we still end up Most likely, it isn't? So the way to deal we're just going to set up this and we can write it down as-- the standard form of And you know a and b are the real numbers and the i is the imaginary unit, right? If we can find out what's the value of a and b, then we are done, right? Okay, so we'll just do meaning we can just go ahead so that you see that the square and square root will cancel and on the right hand side, we're just Okay, so for the first term, and then for the second term, we are going to have plus and then for the third term, And let me put on the plus first and let's see... Take bi, and we square that, And what is i2? We know i2 is equal to -1, So this is not plus, it should be minus and And now we'll clean On the left hand side, but on the right hand side, let's put So first, we'll have a2-b2. They don't have the i, And then I will put this down next, And, as you can see, on the left hand side And now, you can just because 0 is the real number part, right? And, this right here, On the right-hand side, So in other words, And this is how we can come with the So now, let's So first, notice that a2-b2 equals to 0, so let's a2-b2 equals to 0, and next, we have 2ab So that's the system of equations Ok, so from here, we're just going On the second equation from here, we can so you can see that b=1/(2a), and then just do the typical algebra. You can plug in this into this b right here. So we see that we have and then you square that, And now, we have a2 minus 12, which is 1, 22, which is and this is equal to 0. And to solve this equation, I will prefer you guys to do it this way--let's so multiply the top and bottom by 4a2, So you see, this is 4a4-1 which is 4a2, and this is equal to 0. How can we have The only chance is that So all we have to do is And of course, the typical thing is to add 1 divide by 4 on both sides, a4=1/4, and then, yeah, it's going to be taking Take the 4th root on both sides. It's like square root, then square root, But this is the fourth root. This and that will cancel. However, when you take the you should technically put a plus-or-minus (+-), So a is equal to--you have plus or minus-- this is the 4th root of 1/4, right? Okay, (1), this is 1, no problem, over-- Let's look at this right 4th root of 4--just in the denominator. This right here--let's do it this way: this 4 is the same as saying 22 and the 4th root is And when you're looking you know that the base is the same So this is 2*(1/4) and 2*(1/4)-- so this is 2 to the 1/2 power, so 1/2 power is the same as (2), right? so this is how you do Okay, so with that being said, we have nothing but just (2); And in fact, you have two possibilities Yeah, in fact we have two forms Anyway, Keep this in mind because I'm going to So, let me just write When a is equal to +1/(2), and the other in both cases, right here, you know b So let me just write this down real quick again. b=1/(2a), In this case the a is 1/(2) so we have this a is that, so I will just And we can simplify this real quick. Just look at the denominator. You have 2/(2), which is still (2), so this right here is (2) on the bottom And likewise, in this case, you still have b=1/(2a), So 1/2 is this 2 and this a is now that, Same idea, but this time, it's just a Okay. So first answer is: a is this, b is that. Second answer: a is this, b is that. So in other words, ladies and gentlemen, First answer: a is this, b is that, so we will have 1/(2)+(1/(2))i. That's the first answer. Second answer--when a is this and b is that, so I will put down the words better--or, the second answer is that a is -1/(2), And we add with the -b. Well, b is negative so what? -(1/(2))i. Two answers: this or that. And we are done. Cool, huh?