This amateur footage was filmed in the midst of the battles of June 1940. A German column is advancing when suddenly, a young Frenchwoman There's also this unsettling sequence, filmed at a barracks showing German at the height of the occupation. Or the images and apparently having fun together. Watching these scenes one would think the occupation These private films, are owned by collectors and individuals What new do they tell us What is their significance? Seemingly innocuous, To try and understand them, I wasn't in awe of the Germans I could come and go anywhere Nowhere did I leave a bad impression. The new images take us Jews wearing the yellow star in Paris tell us of an amazing journey. A German who ends up I was, of course, One as a brave soldier and the other Behind their uniforms, What did the French How did they react to them? Seventy years later, we revisit the painful period from the perspective Her name is Jeanne Neel, filmed in the winter of 1939, a wonderful age. How could she have imagined she would find herself on the road and in fear of the traditional enemy, the Boche. We only knew them during the previous war. Horror stories Atrocious, that's why we were fleeing. We were terrified but at the same time, You must imagine that the Great War hardly left a single family For me, all my uncles had one arm missing I grew up with that feeling about war and in my head Here they are, the barbarians. Among them, I have to say, we look to our front We were wary Sometimes you'd say: &quot;A pity.&quot; &quot;It was a beautiful church That was war. Proud and pumped with propaganda, We've been very proud of it. It's true, but not exuberant. We gave it our all because we felt it was a matter of survival, once France and Britain Hans-Georg Schultz &quot;It's really horrible &quot;Why did the French want war?&quot; &quot;The Fuhrer tried everything to avoid it.&quot; &quot;Now they'll have a funny surprise.&quot; &quot;They've already seen our superiority.&quot; In perfect order, as here in Coulanges, in eastern France. This amateur film was shot in secret an act punishable by death. The cameraman, a French customs officer. He was familiar with Nazi ideology. He had worked in the Tsar in 1935, and had brought back photos It was a harrowing time. This is Hitler's In the early days of the occupation, he was one of the few to realize For his neighbor, Suzanne Mallegue, the first Germans The officers were very arrogant. I had met one officer. I shouldn't say too much, but the soldiers themselves Almost all knew a few French words, Being polite, We'd speak to them. We were expecting barbarians, We were worried I thought: &quot;What will he do to me?&quot; They didn't do anything. It's the story of a misunderstanding. Reassured by the behavior the French do not see or do not want On the surface, even respectful, as shown in this amateur film The general, a member of the German is shown here with his son at Verdun, a site where he had fought the French Are these Germans and the graves of soldiers Among the soldiers there are many who admit The humiliation, because we were there to fight. To be stripped of our weapons and watch the success, who then also captures you I was there to fight, not to run away. When I saw them and how organized I told myself: &quot;We just don't measure up.&quot; We were emerging from a difficult period, What had we done during the Phoney War, We'd played a lot of cards. We had all been psyched up politically Not the French, though, They fought, they said: However, they didn't believe in it. [German spoken audio] General von Rothkirch's film which is a foretaste of Nazi racism. He films black prisoners who are hungry The caption says It's as if to demonstrate Everyone's filming them and in between shots, &quot;The great nation the caption reads. Are these the fighters as the soldiers Among the amateur photographers I went to France and for the first time, In Germany, there were none. In Berlin, there was a single soldier from the colonial troops He lived in Zehlendorf. He was the only colored man. I asked the prisoners, &quot;Why are you here?&quot; [German spoken audio] They were surprised They were trying to gesture why they had to fight against us. This is a special announcement Paris has been declared an open city. [German spoken audio] They marched and sang, I'll tell you something. I wouldn't say we admired them, but we'd watch them. We had seen our own troops. Of course, they would parade and march, It's a bit like in the movies, to see these people all immaculate, and marching along like that. Faced with an overwhelming German victory, France goes through the most serious witnessed by the movies here, in Orleans, Barely 12 months earlier, the French army paraded here It was more than a defeat. It was a collapse, with incalculable consequences. In northern France, films the disaster. Troubled and like so many French people, They seemed to have and that impressed many people, the fact they gradually They have the quality of organization, that we did not possess. There was some grudging admiration. We disapproved, but at the same time, we didn't think the French Handsome, tanned, and at their ease. In their private films, the conquerors seemed disarmingly youthful and relaxed. For them, the war seems over. They triumphed in just six weeks, It's as tourists Hans Heisel was just 18 when he was posted on the Place de la Concorde. It was wonderful. At this time in my life, I was in Paris, and I discovered this wonderful city. You see, I was from Leverkusen, The largest city I'd never been further away than that and I could only dream of Paris. It was a wonderful feeling Visiting Paris on 28th June, 1940, Hitler issued the order that France, which he admired its heritage would not play any future political role. It was to be just a cultural showcase German soldiers are encouraged to explore and which they believe A seemingly empty capital. Beautiful fantasy. At least to judge shot in the first weeks of occupation. The French woman was somehow a sex symbol. French men had nothing to do with it. France, Paris was about women. One day, I wanted to go to the opera. There I was, standing outside, That was the only real opera by Charles Gounod. They must have noticed because a French couple arrived and I watched Faust from the second row. Despite the clandestine opposition notably the Gaullists, the first months of occupation Most make the best out of life Like this young woman, Renee Penin, filmed at the Buttes Chaumont in Paris. It always seemed to me They had orders to be correct of the countries they occupied. I thought, well, we were beaten, we're occupied There they were, they were victorious Too bad for us. There's no point complicating things so it was up to us There is plenty of evidence which can be difficult to interpret today. Including these beautiful photos Here's my father in, As far as they were concerned, He would send the pictures home to Germany His son, Rudolf Bolts, remembers it well. It was very nice. My father could drive around Time with the local people, This is another one taken in a restaurant Me too, nowadays, if I was on vacation I would take pictures like that Here, we see stores For us in Germany, There, you could buy everything. My father was very proud of everything he bought in those stores. You can see it wasn't always as bad There, everything is peaceful and this is how None of them seem unhappy. It looks so peaceful. At ten years old, kids don't think more deeply than that. It's an idealized vision that almost makes you forget Listen to what most French people when they couldn't begin to imagine what the Nazi regime You only put up with them Then, if you have one that lives with you. At first across the room, That's what they did. Then, we invited them to coffee. He was almost part of the family, If he spoke a little French, he'd explain and that he would like to see them again. They showed us pictures of their children. They were very nice to us. There was one who was an artist, and another who was a musician. The one who was an artist or a forest to paint. They got on with their hobbies. They never bothered us, never. We didn't expect to be loved I never had any problems Maybe I was lucky, I behaved normally, [German spoken audio] In the German army, there were Germans It's the same everywhere. They were ordinary men like us. I'm sure they weren't Until 1942, the SS are a rare sight. France is occupied by the regular army, We tried to apologize, telling the French We were following orders, and they understood perfectly or fathers were in Germany. The first farmer had a son who was a prisoner and who once wrote: &quot;I'm fine.&quot; Therefore, the relationship with our host at least decent, and later even pleasant. An unreal atmosphere and certainly not what we believe Looking at the photographs, Young Heinz Heidt lived in Leaz He formed a friendship The only thing It was great, of course, to hold It was just friendship. It was a great way to pass the time. That's all, and I would say it was just perfect. Between the girl and the soldier, She survived the war, when Vivian married, It was surprising, The Germans seem to have strongly affected as shown in this film, which shows French intellectuals, socializing with the occupiers. What's wrong with drinking He seems to be saying. The Germans even seemed Listen to what these little girls Well, my memory of the Germans, They had horses, they had lovely black boots, I was in awe of the Germans. They had these amazing uniforms, Then they rode on their horses. To us, it was just beautiful. They played with us a little. However, in the family, We were told we shouldn't play with them The villa we were staying at and it was good weather. In the afternoon I'd stripped to sunbathe. Two or three days later, and one of them said: I asked: &quot;How was it?&quot; &quot;We looked at you I said: &quot;You've had your fun then.&quot; We were pretty, we didn't have much, we chatted, we girls: &quot;Better look out.&quot; We used curtains to make dresses because at that time It was 45, 46 kilos, so we made clothes and with petticoats, of course. There were girls, they were naughty but they seemed to say: &quot;Look, look, I didn't do that because I was too scared. One last clip showing the charm It was filmed Otto Messerschmidt. It's not clear when he arrived in France. What's known before he came to Paris, and that the woman he calls Ismelda This caption reads: &quot;You forever.&quot; This one: &quot;An intimate moment.&quot; A timeless theme such as lovers if the war did not exist. Let's go to bed. Clearly, a love story. Deniably, there were thousands more. Were these home movies while authentic, nonetheless misleading? Imagine you were these French merchants. How could you not smile at soldiers The French, the Germans' behavior. Other films shed light Here, in a small town south of Paris, the Germans are removing a statue Here in Belgium, and all these bicycles Petty objects possibly, but look at this, it shows a country being pillaged. Since the armistice of June 1940. France is paying 400 million francs An extremely heavy tribute. The demarcation line. As the film, shot by customs official, France is divided into two, the occupied zone in the north, The boundary separates families, prevents trade, and ruins the country. The Germans might behave correctly, perhaps as a way to lull the French to make them forget and the 1,500,000 prisoners In the city of Troyes, Robert Marot, is not fooled by the German tactics. It was German propaganda soldiers will help you, and so on. There were posters. A German soldier Next, he might even be bottle-feeding him The German soldier is good and polite. He pays for what he buys, the soldier. Yes, but with our money. It's difficult today, 70 years later, to imagine the choices To keep their jobs many accepted dealing with the occupier. At Troyes, the Maroons We had to live. We needed to have the manpower and since we produced dyes, we worked. A grey-green dye for the German Army. We worked for the Germans. Not only for the Germans, but the Germans gave us work We had the largest plant but there were small plants, that weren't working. They weren't allowed to. That tells you If we were working, it was because We could work but for them, If you don't want to work for us, fine. No coal, no this, no that, finished. There's much worse. In 1940, Hitler annexed Alsace-Lorraine in complete violation of the armistice. This amateur film clearly shows relating to France was erased. The Nazis enlist teenagers who'll soon be sent to the Russian front. The repression begins to affect the entire occupied area. Arrests, raids, executions of hostages. By 1941, any challenge is paid for in blood. We left the cinema one day and a German staff car and they make us line up and put our hands on our heads. My father understood and he told me: &quot;We'll be shot.&quot; We stayed like that for a good half hour. Another car with soldiers An officer says: We were released. There'd been an attack, and a German officer They took 20 hostages to be shot. My parents' apartment Every morning at five o'clock, They shot the people Every morning, I asked my father: He'd say: &quot;It's five o'clock.&quot; &quot;That's still some of the people Overall, the Germans were well-behaved, This rare footage perfectly illustrates They chose the Blois family, a French Jewish family hiding in Paris, In this apartment, a baby girl is born. Her name is Martine. She and her family Her parents, who were able to smuggle decided to film her birth. They simply pretended They put on costumes and make-believe having the baby Her birth is then announced There's a party at which the uncles and aunts, It's all to ward off bad luck. Hoping to survive the Nazis. For Hitler, France must be purged From the spring of 1941, the Germans arrest, The first targets are foreigners, who had arrived from Poland in the 1930s. Here's Leon, ten years old at the time, wearing the yellow Star of David. This is my aunt and me. We're outside the house. We are in a haven of peace and solitude. It's very well protected. In this alley in the east of Paris, a couple, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob, They are Protestants who, begin to realize I'm a miraculous survivor who, unfortunately, are no longer there. Jacob did what his heart told him to do, his duty, because, for me, He had to save the people and he did. Everyone knew we were Jewish Even at Villa Godin, people came to warn us To me, the people I was with, the French, were wonderful. It's still hard to imagine could have been led to slaughter. Remember the Germans were among in terms of education, They were educated, It's still one of their boasts today, and yet the humane being changed brutally because they'd been promised Did the German soldiers What burden of responsibility It's a hard question to answer. Most focused on their military duties, claims this artilleryman, Ruprecht Kreuzberger. We were trying to save our own skin We thought of nothing else. We had no rights, we soldiers, it was our duty to follow our leaders. It was an obligation you couldn't refuse. It would have been considered desertion. Deserters were lined up I'm not a soldier by nature, but you had to do it, Prussian approach to soldiering. You don't question orders, The rule is that no officer than what is necessary not challenge an order. Why are we doing this? It was simply We had neither the time It was all banged into our heads At first, I was too young, and later I didn't care The key was to get home in one piece, to get out of where You had to get back home. The big political issue was: This is what we thought about. Very young soldiers, highly trained. Some confident in German military success, Very few, even in retrospect, Hans Heisel of the German Navy Poor soldiers from the highest-ranked &quot;We must carry out our orders, They said: That's what we did but they refused to admit to any crimes. It shows the fanatical of the German soldiers. It's really sad. It was so uncritical. They preferred to die. I thought: &quot;If I die in this War, The occupation continues After the first shock, that behind the veneer the Germans are capable and however it might upset the Germans, the war with France is far from over, as we shall see in part two Spring 1943, the German occupation In a river North of Paris, teenagers go swimming and they bring their cameras. Guy Trinquet was 17 years old at the time. We wanted to do something to be active, to try in spite of everything, That's it. Nobody knows about it, Guy Trinquet is a member against the occupier. The only feeling we had as fast as possible, and that we had to do everything Forgotten by now was the German victory, With the domination and the invasion plus the persecutions, I knew that I had to be careful. I was taking the tube a lot, and I wasn't standing Someone could open the doors With the home movies and pictures found the story of the years as the French A show for German soldiers in Paris. Since the German offensive in the summer of 1941, France has become a rear base a quiet zone When we returned from Russia, They wanted The new soldiers said, I told them I would have liked to end the war here. They continued filming France As the occupation drags on, In any case, there were too many of them, I always saw them everywhere, There were Germans everywhere, One day I crossed a convoy, It bothered them If they greeted us, we didn't answer. It was as if we didn't see them. You're here, fine, stay there. Do whatever you want, We do our own little thing, As soon as they arrived somewhere, They were coming to the store but with an air of, how do you say it? Stump, but not in a nice way, They could have been softer They didn't like us much anyway, French behavior is full When we were in the metro he'd say sorry, At home, no one did that. As for me, personally, I have sometimes thought Their standard of living The conquerors in relation to the Reichsmarks. Everywhere, they helped themselves first. There's still a lot to eat in Brittany, in the local restaurants Once we sang The Internationale, People, eat more bananas [German spoken audio] Jokes that no longer made one laugh. As shown in a film shot in secret an increasing number Looting by the Germans There was nothing in the store, They received very little stuff. There was nothing nowhere, There was nothing to eat, no clothes, There was nothing, and we were starving. Only half a pig It was the Germans who took everything. They left very little, One day I was leaving work, and as I was always very hungry I saw two Germans in front of me on the sidewalk I followed them Eating was an obsession. One of the soldiers threw the biscuit What do you think I did? I picked it up, and I was ashamed. Oh, if you only knew I still think about it If they see me do that. I remove the part with the teeth marks You really have to be hungry The Germans filmed such scenes like Captain Gurkha In France, tens of thousands For many, it's a means of survival. They were in distress. There weren't many men The young men had gone to the war. There were many prisoners, a lot of them. In our family, I don't know how many seven or eight, at least, All our men were prisoners. The terrace of the Hotel Meurice, the German high command headquarters This is where Haynes Lawrence The officer in charge for the soldiers His standard of living was enviable. He was filmed with French mistresses. Easy indeed, to play the role Women who had children to feed The husband was a prisoner, money was needed. For a pass, why not? A pass, a little attention. Some assistance, It's not prostitution necessarily, but one can make the most For most French, and so believes this young woman, filmed in 1943, I thought they were whores. There's no other word for it. Then anyway to get closer those people must not have loved They were traitors and were somehow taking advantage There was no new clothes but these ladies wore new clothes. [French spoken audio] I knew someone who lived and she saw people with packages People began hanging around because they lacked everything. Can we really throw stones When you're in such a situation, once the guy is naked in bed, There's no mark There's no swastika. These are rare images or Flag 17A filmed at the same time. They were taken with a hidden camera It shows the defeated French troops in a continuous and depressing cycle and entertainment for prisoners. Uniquely, the amateur film Preparations for an escape unfold To end their humiliation, a hundred officers are digging a tunnel Among them is Jean Cuene-Grandidier. We were wasting the best years It's because the politicians and had not been able There was, after all, That was an incentive We didn't escape just to go for a walk. I want to emphasize it. We all made a commitment It wasn't about going for a stroll It was about resuming the fight They're only a small minority, On November 11th, 1943, an event takes place in the history of the German occupation. At Oyonnax, dozens of resistance fighters, turn up out of the blue and marched towards the war memorial One inhabitant, Raymond Rouleau, and his son Pierre films the symbol What made the most impact were the order, discipline We felt it was the beginning They were led by soldiers Everything worked so well, that the resistance wasn't a random group but that it was a real secret organization It was in reaction to the propaganda to discredit the Maquis, who were presented as terrorists, who only enjoyed stealing money To the Germans, France had, given up on any military action. Those who take up the fight, as shown don't respect the laws of war. To the Germans, they are terrorists. Partisans didn't wear a uniform. It was the same in Russia, It gave them an advantage. They could come and go easily, The word maquis We weren't scared of the Americans but we did fear the maquis. I couldn't accept The war they waged wasn't recognized In my opinion they weren't soldiers When you shoot, you shoot. In other words, they will be annihilated. Nevertheless, some Germans disobey. Like Hans Haisel, who was now 23 years old and is still Thanks to meetings, including Hans becomes aware It was a social democrat and whose brothers had been arrested He told me what the Nazis had done They had tortured one of his brothers, and another was sent It was all very new to me, I had no idea. As I learned about it, What role do I objectively play After several months of reflection, Hans Haisel secretly joins all the while remaining at his post. He also agrees to supply weapons, which will likely be used to fight As for me, I was completely opposed to the idea I was completely opposed to it. It was the communists who did this. As far as I'm concerned, It was useless, it was very cowardly. Once a German was shot, It served no point at all. Real resistance was to do everything As far as the maquis, By that time, It was a proper war. I thought we had to free the German people That was the reason. I felt that if I hadn't done anything and knowing they were criminals I couldn't have looked myself They didn't represent my country. On the contrary, they were criminals who had sullied the name of Germany How should one deal with Nazi Germany? As these films from 1943 showed, one resisting, the other collaborating to imitate Germany, The head of the militia is Joseph Darnand, and a future member of the Waffen-SS. Some followers lost their way who filmed the ceremony in the Savoie, He writes in his diary, The faces The matters of National Socialism Their doctrine will defeat the Jews, the communists, Stuck in between torn apart Such as the Ferret family, also in the Savoie the man who made the choice the one who puts his police force in the service of Jewish persecution To many French people, 15 at the time, was the only one able It was a little like Joan of Arc, Anyway, as a little girl, and all those He would probably save us, Oh, there was no doubt They were the hereditary enemies. They were those who had killed my uncle, Oh, yes, they were our enemies. It wasn't the Germans No, it would be national revival, Either indifferent or misled the French seemed not to realize In Pithiviers, South of Paris, without worrying too much who are imprisoned Flashback to 1940 by the French military. In this, the same site, thousands of Jewish people including women and children, during the infamous before being deported to Auschwitz. We had no idea what was happening We lived in town so did we have a sheltered life? I don't know but we didn't realize The Jews came to Pithiviers Station and were taken They weren't mistreated. They were taken in a procession We can find them there. At first, they were taken, They were taken For the inhabitants to see people in town it then seemed all right. Therefore, Once I asked my mother I think she was embarrassed The only thing she told me when they came to run their errands, they were throwing some of them with addresses written on it. My parents were sending That's all. I think they were fooled. They were deceived That's for sure. I felt very guilty to have lived a life. I would say and then there's this huge injustice. It's horrible. When I learned little by little the Jews being arrested at the time, The fact that such a destructive system I had a certain idea but this was beyond anything. How should the French be judged Collaborators? Resistance fighters? What do the enigmatic smiles reveal? Robert Brochot lives in La Rochelle, His shop was requisitioned by the Germans to develop pictures taken This is a good example. We did collaborate. Let's tell it the way it was, We all did. The baker collaborated, We accepted them, but as clients. They were seen as customers, period. Later we talked. When we knew a little more German, We asked them where they came from. One of his clients was called Friedrich. We were exactly the same age, 21. He was from Frankfurt am Main, We closed the front door For the three months he was there, The French speak to the French on the BBC, He had his own ideas about Germany, a simple German citizen as they are today. In secret in his laboratory, to duplicate all the photos Seven hundred altogether to be used as evidence later. He was running a huge risk. What were the atrocities He could have faced the death penalty. What if this is what the French were like They accommodated the Germans and at the same time resisted them too It became a kind of double thinking, Another episode from The Juror, Victor Barbe, the customs officer of the Germans in 1940, He's a kind of intermediary With his wife, he spends time with them. Especially with the soldier Bauer, This doesn't prevent him from filming People had thrown nails on the road The locals are requisitioned. Things turned to farce as the nails are not swept away, It ends with a parody when a fake German is greeted Warning! This is a statement from the first We are informed over the region We will keep you informed. The war will soon be four years old, the allure of France I'm asking you if you want total war. From Brittany, Klaus Kandler writes I'm starting to get tired, My best years are slipping away. I'm tired of France, except Paris. The most terrible thing In four days, I will be 22, Last year I was in Russia. Now I'm in France. Next year, where will I be? I was getting older It was obvious There'd been Stalingrad and we thought to ourselves Those who still believed the war in a fantasy world. I received a huge bouquet When I got out of work, then I saw I could hear the sound of his boots. The noise of his boots is terrible, Anyway, this German followed me telling me he wanted He was leaving for the Russian front, since I was very cross with the Germans. I said there was nothing to eat, My brother was arrested Then he opened his wallet and I left him there like that, It haunts my memory. As I said, because he was so afraid of dying. Maybe he was very kind. The proof is that he wanted That's not malicious, is it? In 1944, The allies bombed the country ferociously. In Normandy, who filmed the queues in front of shops, An unbelievable fear. That's what bombing is, it's awful. After we'd say the Americans because they had destroyed There'd been a big bombardment. Two hundred and twenty dead. They had no choice, In that period, It had to end, it couldn't last anymore, There weren't many other solutions No, for sure this kind Allied bombing causes 60,000 deaths more The Germans tried to take advantage and by being compassionate, Yet their propaganda fails to make people forget the atrocities The SS were now part and they fiercely repress without sparing civilians. The last German Of course, the question he asked me was They didn't call them resistance, Can you imagine asking Anyway, With the defeat approaching, There is no footage who continue to be deported to the East. Very few photos such as this one committed a few days before the D-Day landings. Most films from the summer to show how the Germans At Dortan in the Jura, Raymond Roulleau is filming a common grave, and the village that has been destroyed. The Germans came by road and burn villages. The villagers had fled into the forest, and the Germans organized a sweep and they considered all the people to be with the resistance. Therefore, It was very bloody. By this point, we were terrified of them. We said this couldn't be real. We couldn't understand. We'd seen men and then now They felt they were going to lose the war, but they were so vicious. At the time, we changed our opinion It was no longer a splendid It had turned and we were dismayed to see but at the same time reassured the army wouldn't survive long. From June 6th, 1944, the date of the Allied landings the struggle is reversed as the Germans, under the eyes of the French, When the front collapsed in Normandy, The main units were beaten. There was a terrible retreat, but we wore the uniform and to desert meant Who wanted that? We'd been given weapons, vehicles, of our artillery. Before leaving, to say goodbye to his French friend, She was at the window, She didn't come out, We just exchanged a few sentences. She said, &quot;Denke an mich,&quot; This meant in German, These are the only German words Nothing was spectacular, really. On one hand we were scared. On the other hand, a beautiful friendship We tried to act as normal as possible. From her window, Huguette Le Bihan films I remember the Germans were looking even bicycles to get away because they were afraid They left on whatever they could find, I even saw one German on a horse It was pathetic, It was their exodus. For months, I had diarrhea, All these whistles in the air. The total superiority We just said to ourselves, We were almost pitying them Look at them now. It was a hell of a difference. We were saying, What we said didn't hurt them, of course. Just their sense of pride Then we saw the GIs. The GIs was a completely different story. In Normandy, with their cameras to the first Americans. I asked them where they were going. They told me they were going towards Eastern France The story now is of a population In Paris without waiting for the allies, Among them is the German Hans Heisel. We get up in the morning or we go out French people, Parisians, It was perhaps a bit In the streets, there were men, who built barricades No more German soldiers but there were tanks everywhere. I saw one go down one street. The residents threw Molotov cocktails and onto the roof of the tank The story of a humiliation It wasn't possible It was our zero hour. I felt like a loser. Yes, I had lost the war. I personally had lost the war I saw German prisoners with their hands on their heads. It was the Free French and everyone was spitting on them. They were covered in spit, It shocked me terribly. Despite the fact I don't think I would have done that. Did they understand what was happening Not always. One of those Germans who has just been arrested For months, he has been taking pictures as the Germans fantasized it. Apolitical and sensual. His last photos are from July 1944, taken at the swimming pool He wrote in his journal, We're being pushed around A wave of insults rains down on us. On the route of Reveille, on the chin and falls. A French guy takes a bike They take it out on us, In Paris, Now as far as I'm concerned, Those who fight Of course, they have to be taken away. They should be treated as criminals. They're responsible for all of this. I might be sorry for them but they still have the chance Yes, it was very humiliating. Besides, it was understandable Even though it wasn't fair, which was not true for most of us. To see the Germans being defeated, I can assure you was really comforting Oh, yes, revenge. As far as we're concerned, It may have been part of the victors because she had decided but the war in France, So went the war, and with it a secular hostility To the joy of all those such as young Sedlecky or the Bois family, those Alsatian Jews who are coming out with their little girls born There's bitterness as well for the French of having to be liberated and for failing to win the war, they sometimes lose their soul. Less than five years Nazism itself was defeated, and lasting peace would be established Who would have imagined would finally be forgotten 70 years later?