Ever heard of Star Wars? I didn't think so, Anyway, it turns out there are a whole load of sacred duty to rank them all from worst to best. Worst to Best video is here, and we can't As you can see, the length of this so let's get right tothe ground rules. into account mobile games or browser these are often lost to history, but in this time I finish recording my voiceover for this Second, we will only count actual Star Wars other games. That means no Disney Infinity, We will not count collections of previous not games. Also, we won't be covering Yoda looking at me like that, and we won't be pay money for JarJar's Journey Adventure Book. games only, so that means noDeath Star as you are. It would clearly be #1. 'em.Meesa called Ben-Ben I mean,I'm Peter from TripleJump...and here is #100: Star Wars: Droids Star Wars: Droids was a 1985 animated The show does have its fans, but they should It did get a video game adaptation on the Amstrad for a couple of robot sprites walking along For such a simple game, it even manages to control be selected via a joystick or keyboard, The game was also ported to the Commodore their games to look as bad as they play. these aren't the Droids you're looking you're looking for? Hmm. Neither really #99: Star Wars Millennium Falcon CD-ROMPlayset The Star Wars Millennium Falcon CD-ROMPlayset attempts at the toys-to-life genre, which that regard only. The playset came with a figure but none of them are needed to play the game. as a more complicated way of pressing The game should be the real it probably is. It's a series of Star Wars the corresponding button in the physical playset. sometimes it does not. That's it. That's the game. is really no better. As a wise man #98: Star Wars: Yoda Stories No human being was asking for a Yoda Stories, but in 1999 we got one anyway. worse. Whereas the random generation of the some superficial variety, this game has 15 tiny In theory, this allows the developers to design the developers crapped out some barely-connected tickling things with his lightsaber in the Though he gets top billing, all Yoda does then sends you on your way. This is ostensibly Empire Strikes Back, but it feels more like #97: Star Wars: Flight of the Falcon Everybody loves the Millennium Falcon. And Han Surely a game that features all of those things Right? NNOOO. I'd call this game a pile iscompetent enough to form a pile. Millennium Falcon, but sometimes not, just to endlessly at enemies, hoping against hope controls just long enough to hit something. that you couldn't discern from the background it's been smeared with crude oil. The levels and any child who got this for Christmas would #96: Kinect Star Wars I have a bad feeling about this... too! The hardware does have the potential though. The Force is all about pretending to unclogging your elderly neighbor's toilet, or even perform some gesture, and watch the magic And then we get a dancing game. I mean, yes, handsome boys to show off their rhythm, There are other game modes, but the dancing The rest consist of trying to get the Kinect that allows you to use the Force, and it's the #95: Star Wars: Yoda Stories It's better than the Game Boy Color version, but the PC has the frame rate of a flipbook, but not play as Luke, and Yoda gives you various missions the map is randomized, to ensure you'll never The missions involve finding and uninstalling the game, powering down your PC, and Also, this gameignores Yoda's entire philosophy! Have you been forgetting your medication again? an assisted-living facility. Sitting in this #94: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy As we will see, Lego and Star Wars go together because we sure as hell won't see it now. the DS no doubt knew it would not be an but they probably expected something that they got was a buggy mess, full of braindead AI, Critics went so far as to accuse the game a high-profile release to feel so amateurish, explanation that made sense to them. compared to the various proper versions of version - which had scores in the #93: Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones Game Boy Advance you did to deserve this, but I hope it was seems like a perfect satire of terrible Star Wars game. It's slow, suffers from input lag, and has there is absolutely zero personality in its of paper over another game and traced it. overcomplicated. Instead of pressing a button to and use the D-pad to swing. That may sound of fighting enemies that are right next to you, It's awful, and I'm angry #92: Star Wars: The New Droid Army As if trying to make the prequels The New Droid Army is one of the slowest, most Don't let the title fool you; the game should At least the tedium explains why On the positive side, the graphics we can't tell if they look bad or not. they need to be, often going for long stretches combat is so bad, however, that it will make you Anakin walks like he's slowly turning suffers from periodic slowdown, in case the #91: Star Wars: Masters of TerasKasi PlayStation well to fighting games, considering its large styles of combat. There have even been a few there's Star Wars' first attempt at its own Masters of TerasKasi features only one master of a sluggish, poorly controlled, uninspired mess. issues, but there are characters in this game superior. There is a massive difference in at either clear advantages or disadvantages. difficult to pull off. It's not as much but two people struggling to execute #90: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed The DS was a great handheld. I'm saying because it's easy to forget after playing for just about everything. Developer n-Space Of all the versions of The Force Unleashed, I the one for the DS. Maybe the controls "No, seriously, buy this on a console instead." polygons the size of gorillas. There's no might surprise someone who never played a DS port with the entire adventure clocking in at around received, at least. Another nice feature #89: Star Wars Star Wars on the NES is not this far down the but rather because it's bad and...okay, The game is punishing in all of the wrong ways. stiff and too slippery - quiet back there - with fall damage. You'll navigate interchangeable, ever did in any Star Wars film ever. better but still doesn't manage to look good. It issues which, believe it or not, The Game Boy version is actually the best he can start running immediately and the soundtrack is less terrible. Also, it's #88: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II With the DS version of The Force Unleashed II, everything from the first game. The of it but, still, that is progress. As with excessive reliance on the touchscreen. As with short. As with the first game, there was genuinely it over its console counterparts. is the game's design. It's still not great, but making this a much better fit for the hardware. released for DS for the sake of having a The Force Unleashed II at least feels like an #87: Star Wars: Jedi Arena When you hear the words "Jedi Arena," you lightsabers at each other, either in that scene in Attack of the Clones when a You probably don't picture Luke in A New but Parker Brothers doesn't care what you think! their...erm...weapons from side to side, as the a sort of one-on-one version of Breakout, with The difference is that Breakout was It's simplistic to a fault, even for an Atari 2600 though: This is the first Star Wars game to #86: Star Wars Often dismissed as a port of the and anyone who tells you it is should no longer actually playable, for one, and it adds levels. more variety and more recognizable Star Wars NES game. Also, the irritating Landspeeder with simple left-to-right platforming stages. roughly on par with early DOS games, the indistinguishable from a graphical glitch, and the same woman who restored the Ecce Homo. If you go with the Game Gear one. But you don't need #85: Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back These NES games certainly thought the appeal of systems with pixel-perfect platforming. Based on Strikes Back is an improvement on the previous and the music is recognizably Star Wars. That is many of the flaws of its predecessor.There was main complaint was that it controlled too well. of the Cantina theme. Or is it a chiptuned Holiday Special? There is no way to be sure. film. I just wanted to see who ranted in the #84: Lego Star Wars: The Video Game Lego Star Wars for consoles was a Lego Star Wars for the Game Boy Advance is those who only owned a GBA and wanted to make studs out of each other, this was nice, but it On the bright side, it looks fine and it's well that this is a lesser experience in every way. The of like experiencing Lego Star Wars as a segments and other setpieces have been removed. with stages repeating the same small amount of Wars to lesser hardware, it's admirable, but #83: Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Republic Heroes DS probably would have been much less impressed that the entire thing took place on a touchscreen. and its DS port is remembered is for the best. It offers precious little in of...just about everything, actually. You take a few kill some more enemies. The constant chatter from the only evidence that you hadn't fallen asleep. characters of The Clone Wars would have lent we got a game that looks like somebody wiped #82: Star Wars: Return of Atari 2600, Atari 5200, Atari 8-Bit, ZX Spectrum It might be a moon; it's really Even compared to other Atari 2600titles, feels limited. The game takes place across two Star. In the second, you shoot the Death Star. The first sequence sees you cramped in the to appear in the barrier that separates you from you fire away, chipping a path to the Death Star's A slightly better-looking version was released of computers. A worse-looking version came #81: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy Like the first Lego Star Wars game on the Game translation. It does, however, add some unique some degree of identity. There is also, of whether you'd rather play as characters from the environments, and enemies are simply much more cry from the console version. vehicle segments. They control terribly and I but I'll give them points for effort. often to stay interesting, and killing the same really starts to grate. It's easier to recommend #80: Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Jedi Alliance The Nintendo DS was a massive success. Actually, every handheld from worst to best...no matter. The owned one, and so when The Clone Wars TV series sense. Unfortunately, designing the entire game Nearly every action is controlled via the touch well enough. Like The Phantom Hourglass but it does work. Maybe they should have No, ignore that, it's rubbish. The problem is reducing battles to screen-tapping to stylus-dragging quick time events. it must be said, it looks like #79: Star Wars: Lethal Alliance Taking place between episodes III drops you into the boots of Rianna. NOT THAT shopping would probably be more interesting... refer to again, and it's your job dull levels, and uninspired gameplay as you one of gaming's most coveted licenses. Criticism reason to play it whatsoever. Overall, it's pretty There was a similar version released of course - different modes, touch-screen ate it - but it probably doesn't warrant similarly poorly and the PSP version was Also then we'd have 101 entries which #78: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II For the Wii version of The Force Unleashed II, rather than a downscaled port. That is a reimagining should qualify as a thought-crime. visuals. To be honest, I think they look quite suits the Wiivery well. The problem is that The everything. Basic attacks, special attacks, thrusting, and swinging, and never Wii Remote makes the combat feel even Across all platforms, the Wii version Metacritic average when compared to the 63% for Those critics are wrong. Neither game is #77: Star Wars: Force Commander A real-time strategy game relies on two things: If it's too shallow, it feels like you're passively influencing it. And if the interface is Commander manages to have both problems in spades. the game - which was entirely 2D - was scrapped 3D iteration. Force Commander was riddled and had uncommonly poor visuals for a Star with a number of reviewers admitting to giving Thankfully, Force Commander was not into an RTS. Or a Star WaRTS, #76: Star Wars: Super Bombad Racing I don't want to talk about it and you don't want the way. Star Wars: Super Bombad Racing is a kart are reimagined as the Happy Meal toys you'd get to be fair, but it's a pretty blatant way to wring trying very, very hard to forget. No least because So what's &quot;bombad&quot;? Wookieepedia says it's "a gungan superlative," more and it says it's "a superlative used And therefore pretty fitting for this game. so here's a joke I invented: What happens when You're welcome. #75: Star Wars A Japanexclusive, to this day Star seen a proper Western release. For that, I am It's a platformer, which were at least when the games weren't called Star Wars. peels for feet. Why does a guy called Skywalker The levels get progressively more frustrating and Luke is fragile enough that one hit though; whenever Darth Vader takes a hit, he The game both looks and sounds better than and isn't worth seeking out aside from the #74: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II If you liked The Force Unleashed, you'll love that? No you won't? I'm sorry; I was misinformed. a lot of room for improvement. It's almost daring explored. Certainly that's due in part to the less than one year to complete it. One of the weeks to turn a script around. If you were killed in the previous game returns here with Neither critics nor fans were much impressed, this video who are surprised we ranked just about every way imaginable. It's #73: Super Star Wars: Return of the Jedi The Super Star Wars series on the so it's a bit disingenuous that a Game like it got released under the same banner. but it isn't awful. While all of the Super Star this one opens with a character select, Chewie, and the Mighty Leia-Boushh. It works compared to the SNES game it sees a significant Many fans might see as a good thing, however. which certainly looks better - we'd be impressed significant slowdown, making it a chore to play. #72: Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron While every other Battlefront game platforms, Elite Squadron on the DS is very Neither is great, but it's nice that these very least somewhat tailored to their strengths. makes use of a top-down perspective during ground critics took issue with the fact that you walking in circles and have a pretty The space battles were also scaled back, This renders the very concept of a space fewer movement options in a spaceship than you for what it is and certainly does offer an hour #71: Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Republic Heroes PlayStation Portable, Xbox 360, Wii, PC continuity of the Clone Wars TV show, and at like a lost episode. The cutscenes more or less and the events of the game fit neatly after the this is excellent news. is everything else. While the game looks that's only because it does They can get away with these visuals on Gameplay-wise though it doesn't matter what You'll mash your way through repeated enemies platforming sections.You are able to play as but none of them makes the game more enjoyable. even look that great, eliminating much of #70: Star Wars: Attack on the Death Star To be honest, I had no idea this game existed too guilty about that; it was released for zero presence outside of Japan. But now that I'm The vector-based graphics still look fine today, PC-98. It's responsive, and it's satisfying to see There is approximately zero depth to the reasonably expect from such a humble game in 1991. X68000, but it's still not bad. The two versions its own. A bit much to call it a hidden gem, #69: Star Wars: Obi-Wan Star Wars: Obi-Wan is the story of the man who child who would one day murder him. It's just it's an action-adventure game that does few things One point of contention was the control the right thumb stick. This seemed to split you had full control over the direction it's different and people hate Critics took issue with the bland, brown saying this is an Xbox game. It's not a game that and if you scroll down you'll find them #68: Star Wars: Demolition Star Wars: Demolition is a Star Wars demolition And since it's so far down this list, it's The concept of using a classic Star Wars vehicles is a good one, but the game doesn't beyond that. The maps look good as the vehicles all end up clustering in one spot The draw distance is terrible, and the ability irritating, especially since you'll want Both version play similarly but the PlayStation a mercy. I don't want too much of this in my field #67: Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron Battlefront II received a surprisingly faithful was recognizably Battlefront II. From that point would continue to get scaled-down versions is that handhelds got the only Battlefront For Renegade Squadron, developer Pandemic Rebellion sure must have had some truly What else have they made? Oh God no, Google, Reviewers found the controls clumsy and whatever that thing was that the PSP had as a game designed for a handheld system, underwhelmingly. The other point #66: Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars Of all the Lego Star Wars games - and there the narrowest appeal. Based on the CGI film Lego Star Wars III meant little to anyone who Additionally, those who were interested might might not have wanted a portable Gone is the well-received ground assault (77 here as compared to 115 on consoles), character is on screen at a time. Additionally, and contain fewer enemies and obstacles overall. across the three portable versions, meaning #65: Star Wars Chess Essentially a reskinnedBattle Chess,Star this list, but it is one of the least The opening text crawl explains that the settle their differences through chess. It does human beings on either side of the conflict, Garry Kasparovs with him to use as chessmen? galaxy far, far away, so does chess predate Earth these games to wreak havoc with Star Wars canon, The most frustrating thing is we'd have the Star Wars-specific holochess. Instead, lifting animations from a much more original game. #64: Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith I never got round to playing this one myself but If you've ever watched characters in a Star "I wish I could do that in a game, many Revenge of the Sith is for you, my friend. mere button mashing, and very rarely will you handful of enemies and environments for somebody purchased a template for a repetitive Revenge of the Sith is by no means the only me that with the Star Wars license and a universe game confined to a series of narrow corridors. something fun must be happening, but #63: Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back The very first officially licensed Star Wars took clear inspiration from Williams looks a lot like the 2600 port of Defender. from the film, with you taking down AT-AT walkers. but players can show off their that serves as the enemy's weak point. science fiction author Harlan Ellison took time for Video Review magazine. He said the game bored the Imbecile Industry," with "the potential to of all." You know...just in case you thought #62: Star Wars: Rebel Assault As a series that relies so heavily on LucasArts often pushed video game technology a common criticism is that the visual spectacle Rebel Assault is an early disc-based game, which pre-rendered animated backgrounds, and full but still, that's impressive. though you do have just enough control over your that you thought were part of the background. The especially in the Sega CD version, which also It's more of a maddening experience than it #61: Star Wars: Rebel PlayStation, PC every complaint about the first game has but it has been addressed.The game looks better, is better. Its voice acting is better. Okay, it The missions were also more "improvements" might begin to work against the steering a YT-1300 Corellian light freighter Why missions that essentially allow you to fly These should have been the highlight of the game. Generation said that it was like "a movie that until you get to see more of the movie." #60: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed The Force Unleashed takes place between the with story concepts and plot details Is that a recommendation or a warning? Yes. a story in the series' main canon.That's the game honestly wouldn't stand out much. It looked like Star Wars, but felt like One of its specific selling points was the use of game to shame in that regard. It...didn't. ability to lock on to targets, hurling things fun. You do gain other Force abilities as you #59: Star Wars Battlefront II I don't like microtransactions. They're And they get everywhere. I HATE THEM. additional content to players and preying on them of course; that line is long and thick Paying for a full price game would, you'd and features. Perhaps you'd have to unlock And, indeed, they could be unlocked, but only be lengthy and tedious. The practice proved to launching investigations into whether or not EA at least somewhat addressed the concerns with it was clear that they hadn't sold players a #58: Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back The original Star Wars arcade game was a massive they'd want to release games based on the other Return of the Jedi next. The Empire Strikes It was not, however,released as a cabinet. Instead wanted the new game,they needed to buy both the lose the original game by converting it to The as the original game was still profitable. but it's less fun, and the final mission- disappointing finale. Especially, y'know, #57: Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace As a concept, The Phantom Menace one. It was intended to explore the Obi-Wan Kenobi. And why not? The In reality, however, it's aconfusing slog The camera manages to remain zoomed out making platformingunnecessarily frustrating. how to progress, and when the game decides to mission straight from the depths of Hell. lightsaber feels fine, but using a blaster is an is more "a nice idea" than even a remote at least. By that I mean it doesn't #56: Star Wars: Return of the Jedi Atari's second arcade game was a The vector-based graphics were gone and common sight in arcades at the time. Everybody but for the era this looked pretty good. several vehicle-based segments, in which you and an AT-ST. Each segment involves both combat highlight of the game - though a very difficult escape the exploding Death Star after blowing in reverse is a clever way of getting more mileage In the end it's little more than a fancy #55: Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron PlayStation Portable version of Elite Squadron by fans of the game closer to the spirit of Battlefront than the DS for Sony's handheld, of course, which meant that system could get to a full Battlefront experience. closer to what the series had established, There was also a nice multiplayer mode that It wasn't received much differently from the on Metacritic compared to the DS version's the handheld titles simply were not #54: Star Wars Racer Revenge Episode I: Racer was great, but there was Nintendo and Sega fans got to enjoy the but Sony ponies - as we've seen you cleverly Well, the joke is on you, because PlayStation didn't! Put that in your pipe and Snoke it. The with Anakin and Sebulba meeting up Because as a Jedi in training, It wasn't terrible, even if it was a big step but you could race as Darth Vader, which you also unlock Darth Maul, but I would've preferred #53: Star Wars Regarded as one of the best arcade games ahead of its time. (We're referring look, we used the wordcorrectlyand stayed true to still look great, and they provided gamers with they could have for a quarter/the UK equivalent. A New Hope: the attack on the Death Star. Three of course, until the player finally runs to the point that anyone who consistently Fun fact: In 2005, Brandon Erickson set a world 54 hours on a single credit. I'd hate to have #52: Star Wars Galaxies Star Wars Galaxies was an ambitious MMORPG it built a large and passionate user base, and then drove all of those users away Galaxies was a rich experience, full of Charactersdid not have to engage in combat at all, entertainers, gather resources...it was basically an In 2005, however, the game introduced an actually reduced the amount of content available. Entertainment offered refunds, but Galaxies along to 2011, when the game was hacked, affecting 30 million users, and was shuttered not long #51: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed Weirdly, the scaled-down version for inferior hardware is the better game overall. LucasArts created a unique physics engine for the not used here due to hardware limitations. as that physics engine didn't work. This direct combat instead ofobject manipulation. It also has all of Starkiller's abilities unlocked how to deal with any particular threat. What's meaning you don't lose out on that sweet, sweet Oh, also, there was a version released for the but it seems to run at the #50: Star Wars: The Clone Wars Dedicated specifically to the battles The Clone Wars relies heavily on vehicular of its platforms - even among Star Wars games - Criticism was directed at the campaign's and other irritating objectives that The Clone Wars is at its best when it leaves the and it really shines in multiplayer. The Xbox giving it an edge over the others. modes kept things interesting long you even bothered to complete the story. If it's almost certainly due to nights spent #49: Star Wars Episode I: Racer If there was one thing everybody loved about of course; it was midichlorians. I'm joking, of course; it was the Galactic Senate. appearing for only about 20 seconds. racing sequence, which felt tailor made to And it did! But less so on the Game Boy Color. decent sense of speed. You can't always see the difficult to judge upcoming turns. An on-screen different from being able to see it yourself. someone in the passenger seat shouts directions at #48: Star Wars: Squadrons Star Wars: Squadrons doesn't bode future of Star Wars games. I will say that to find much fault. The modeling of the ships in and that's good, because the ships Sorry; I misspoke. The ships are the it feels like it's been carved off from a larger, and a variety of missions and couldn't as easily It's unclear who, exactly, the game is for. be turned away by the focus on quick combat as quick combat probably already own several Star #47: Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Lightsaber Duels After Masters of TerasKasi brought us game and The Force Unleashed brought there wasn't much reason to expect that a The Clone Wars - Lightsaber Duels, however, is The lightsabers work about as well as may have benefited from the Wii MotionPlus, but the standard controller works well enough The combat is simple and repetitive, a problem exacerbated by the limited the AI is atrocious, sometimes hacking away at and when it comes to motion-controlled games, that #46: Star Wars: X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter The first game was X-Wing. The second game was Fighter. It's somehow confusing and perfectly those other two games for a while, and that's X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter had a rather with only practice missions available for single limited online hours were commonplace - online though, andthis limited the game's appeal. expansion that gave the game a single-player packs for the purposes of this list. Those #45: Star Wars Arcade Ten years after Atari's classic Star Wars game an updated, ground-up reimagining. While it it was worth making if only to show just Look! The polygons are solid now! still possessed a cabinet from 1983 taking they'd have to release a new game. Like the blasting things, and now you could do it in to shout, "Don't get cocky" at each other. they would have dibs on a home console port, and 32X. It was well received by critics, #44: Star Wars: Starfighter Starfighter for the PlayStation 2 is a difficult unremarkable. Some Star Wars games are some of them are significantly worse. In almost All of which is to say Starfighter is entirely competent. The game runs fine. It looks Perhaps this is due to its short length and low if you don't feel like you're in danger, and the half of the phrase "artificial intelligence." and it made a rare console-to-arcade transition TsuMomulti-game system. I can find almost no #43: Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter One year after Starfighter, which was a released to promote Attack of the Clones. the second one was superior to the first, Still, it is a better experience overall, variety in the types of missions available. The itself. Players can now choose between two addition to the ship's weaponry. That Both versions of Jedi Starfighter and the Xbox version introduced some bugs of its game, this is the one to get, but if you #42: Star Wars Episode I: Obi-Wan's Adventures Pop quiz: Which Star Wars film received the Well, The Phantom Menace, obviously, question during this entry. But still, if it Obi-Wan's Adventuresdoes not look great. glance at this and deciding that it is not find a surprisingly decent Star Wars game. fluidity. It's far beyond most games with genuinely engaging combat that is It's everything fans hoped for from It took a while to get here, and a much worse #41: Star Wars: Jedi Power Battles It's not quite up to the standards of its console of Jedi Power Battles does an admirable job. It Jinn, and the correct choice, Samuel L. Jackson. of them will make for an easy adventure; the comes to the platforming. The combination and aggressive enemies means you're always in long after you've mastered the actual combat. evenly split between being satisfying because the game looks fine, has great pacing, and It's a shame the platforming is so #40: Star Wars Episode I: Jedi Power Battles Jedi Power Battles is a lightsaber-'em-up truly should not have any platforming and it frequently feels unpolished, but mindless co-op action - it's a lot of fun. The impressive animation obscures how shallow those animations end up getting in the way be vulnerable during your windup animations. to the Dreamcast version, but the latter does it has improved visuals, much quicker platforming sections redesigned so that they #39: Star Wars Episode I: Battle for Naboo The final N64 Star Wars game saw Factor Squadron - working their magic on The Phantom warm up your Ginster's chicken and mushroom slice, with the source material. And, by that, I mean The game comes across as a sci-fi war game armed with futuristic weaponry. Beyond that, Criticism was directed at a lack of the characters introduced in that film, I think directed at its technical achievements, such as The game's PC versionwasreceived much worse, #38: Vader Immortal It may have a title like your grandmother "Vader immortal!" - but until Squadrons came fans had to a proper Star Wars experience in VR. interesting story about one of the most famous be more than enough reason to pick it up. Vader Immortal leaves a lot to be desired. of interactivity there is, andthe full It's also glitchyto an unfortunate degree. training missions that allow you to wield of the replay value is here. If only they'd #37: Clone Wars Adventures Few properties lend themselves to MMORPGs better a wealth of races, factions, and planets, each If you take the expanded universe material into Of course, that was until Disney bought Star home of anyone who mentions the expanded Clone Wars Adventures was basedon the Clone Wars that show took to its material. Critics, however, Much of Clone Wars Adventures consisted of playing games. It's difficult to look at something few rounds of Tower Defense in an MMORPG setting #36: Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Shadows of the Empire had a troubled uneven nature of its overall experience. It the specs for that system were finalized. The feel for how it might play on the new system. E3 1996, where nobody liked it. They postponed the best. Even so, the finished product met with vehicle segments were varying degrees of good and Critics and fans loved the opening mission on high-water mark for Star Wars games in general. inspired the Rogue Squadron series, which #35: Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds Have you played Age of Empires II? Galactic Battlegrounds.I'm exaggerating, but could be said to be clones of other, non-Star as to license the engine from its inspiration. painted over it with Star Wars characters, making "Age of Empire Strikes Back," if you will. Age of Empires II is great and And if Galactic Battlegrounds WAS an Age of it was the biggest flipping expansion I've ever seen. LucasArts certainly put a lot of work into this game but, either way, it still feels like an AoE clone. own expansion called The Clone Campaigns. It #34: Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars "More of the same" is a phrase we started hearing but with a formula this strong, that's not to expect, you know the kind of humor you'll even if it's not as memorable as its predecessors. Clone Wars game as they were for the games Traveller's Tales did their best, though. improved the vehicle segments, and were available in the previous games: 115 It didn't review as well as Lego Star As with all Star Wars material, it's almost #33: Star Wars Battle Pod Nowthis is pod-battling! With the Bandai Namco knew its 2014 Star Wars game would it at New York Comic-Con to demonstrate the It was designed as a 180-degree experience, with to make you feel as though you were really The levels take the form of famous Weirdly, the prequels are not I would have loved playing through those long feeling their breath in my hair. and it's not the sort of thing every arcade could non-pod version for that reason, but #32: X-Wing Alliance Two years after X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter left to win them back, and it was a solid attempt. had been reworked, and the space battles were far You begin the game essentially slumming for your a great tutorial and a fitting prologue you end up roped into a struggle for the fate else in every other game - are our "only hope." Anyway, fans and critics saw it as something of a objectives, and a lack of polish held it back from #31: Star Wars: Dark Forces 1993's Doom released to such countless knockoffs appeared in its wake. Star Wars was not about to be left behind. In very impressive Doom mod featuring Star Wars off the larger Jedi Knight series, but in this from id Software's game from two years prior. allowing for more complicated atmospheric effects looking up and down. Which is all well and good, and it would be up to the game's sequels to move as long as you avoid the PlayStation version, which runs like the console is #30: Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens PlayStation Vita, Wii U, What? Could it be? A Lego Star Wars game that all platforms? Well...no, actually, because but we are not taking those into account, only needs one entry on this list. though it feels a little slight when compared entire trilogies or TV shows.The reduced scale of with more than 200 playable characters. but it gave us another serving of something Last Jedi and The Rise of Skywalker in the the design of the steelbookmakes me #29: Star Wars Trilogy Arcade The run-up to The Phantom Menace sawmassive full of Star Wars characters and imagery. that dominated imaginations, it was also Sega's Star Wars Trilogy Arcade, released just was among the best of those celebrations. While the core gameplay is still every bit as fun as original three films and reimagined The game had great controls and a shifting between ground missions, lightsaber battles. It may not be as but this is what every young fan saw when #28: Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike The release of the excellent Nintendo 64 original It got a solid sequel on the GameCube, so Not right. Wrong, in fact! development problems that were, let's be honest Factor 5 scrapped the entire engine they had built complications that had never been problems before. is a puzzling decision for a series based around there's no air? Eh, you know what I mean. impressed. It didn't score terribly, for this game was a huge step down from #27: Star Wars: Bounty Hunter Star Wars: Bounty Hunter was Attack of the Clones. It stars JangoFett, film...probably because he reminded fans The game fleshes out his history, which the prequels didn't contain enough unnecessary with good controls and exciting gun fights. jump around and shoot people, and fly around The bulk of the criticism was levied toward as well as the fact that it drags on far longer The GameCube version was better received #26: Star Wars Trilogy: Apprentice of the Force We've seen a number of attempts to reimagine still see a few more - but Apprentice of the precious little, but it really is worth a look. the events of the original trilogy. He gradually abilities, which keeps what is an overall simple also make an appearance to break up the formula, with Darth Vader feel appropriately climactic. It's a genuinely goodtranslation of a classic It's not nearly as well known as some other #25: Star Wars: Racer Arcade Star Wars: Racer Arcade ended up being but they definitely went out memorably. to choosing between this and Episode I: but we still admit it's gorgeous, runs if you can find one of the two-player models. you angry. But second, because we don't feel that Racer. The amount of content here simply doesn't racers, as compared to the more than 20 of each there's the fact that you can't buy this nearly as #24: Star Wars: The Old Republic According to reports, Star Wars: The Old Republic with estimates placing the development costs the game had better be good. the game has had its ups and downs, but criticism Warcraft with Star Wars stuff" rather than Even the least impressed players, about the writing. A game like this but each of its eight classes gets an dialogue options, and voice acting. Also, it original launch. If you're interested in giving #23: Star Wars Battlefront Oh how naive we were in 2015, when series and gamers were actually happy about it. Battlefront game provided little reason to worry. and - get this - the DLC was substantive and were the detailed visuals, which were lauded as There were perfectly valid criticisms of the single-player content and the fact that several favoring one side over the other. Each version of which we think was fair. It was clear, easily be ironed out by a sequel. #22: Star Wars: Republic Commando For a game about the joys of going without good. It's a first-person shooter which sounds like it should be the but its solid design and unexpectedly Republic Commando takes superficial with the HUD consisting of actual visor though it is far more action-oriented and The teamwork, of course, would be a detriment impressive squad AI, which sees your companions in the heat of combat. with the main criticism being that it though, it was a lot of fun with a style that #21: Star Wars: Battlefront Before EA left its distinctive mark to Pandemic Studios. They had an appealing - no boring stuff. Other Star Wars games had Battlefront to consist only of high points. assortment of planets - mostly ones we'd seen from different factions and time periods. From The developers counted on the rhythms of and release necessary to keep things interesting. mid-80s. It was far from the deepest or most Pandemic managed to capture akind of thrill that #20: Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II Kyle Katarn, star of the first Dark Forces Doom's shadow with Dark Forces II. And...okay, but it does a better job of making the series title - Jedi Knight - from here onward. and better balanced, giving the feeling of a interchangeable rooms and corridors that made the items and enemies are no longer sprite-based; for first-person shooters at the time. Also, Critics adored this game. Whereas the first was exceptionally well, jumping from the first #19: Super Star Wars The earliest Star Wars game for which anyone Super Star Wars is far from perfect It has an appealing simplicity that keeps SNES games warrant a PS4 re-release, after all. Super Star Wars hits the spot. The controls are and murdering aliens is endlessly satisfying. to both look like the films and justice. Its level design could certainly use being simple to the point of boredom and being it set the stage for the entire SNES trilogy, and #18: Star Wars: Empire at War Galactic Battlegrounds was a good game in the and wrote "Star Wars" on it. Five years later, genuine Star Wars RTS experience, and it's One advantage it clearly has over its know...literal star wars. Instead of just you also get to spread your influence It was an obvious addition and a welcome one. which sees players conquering planet after Empire or the scrappy resistance of the Rebel of capturing the spirit of the films in a more #17: Lego Star Wars: The Video Game Lego and Star Wars are two of in the world. Combining the two in a be an interesting experiment. It turned The game reimagined the prequel trilogy as It was a genuinely funny and surprising take on source material. It also featured legitimately for all other licensed Lego games to follow. depending on the platform it averaged a sales success, however, selling around difficulty and simplistic puzzles were accessibility and sense of humor were the real #16: Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith Revenge of the Sith is a movie about two Sorry, did you say there was more to the movie the handheld game is quite good. the game is bright, colorful, and honestly further from the source material in terms of love about it. The game plays to the strengths style and gorgeous sprite animations. Combat can quite easily get the upper hand if you The DS and GBA versions look almost in terms of extra content, but you #15: Super Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back The second Super Star Wars game is an excellent to just about everything it did differently. introduced new abilities, which represented Luke's Force, deflecting lasers with his lightsaber, and The difficulty was still extraordinarily high, for error. That doesn't mean that it was but with games this difficult, we will The best thing about it, of course, was that its game, and Star Wars would not just be a trilogy of 16-bit platformers. Maybe it's a bit greedy #14: Star Wars: Battlefront II With the first game, developer Pandemic critical feedback, their thought process changed While the previous game succeeded as the of the criticism it received was based on the fact Battlefront II gave the single-player added new types of objectives, and expanded everything that fans enjoyed about the first Miraculously, the PSP version compares The controls and graphics aren't It lost some content, but everything Battlefront II was great all around. That's a #13: Star Wars: Rebellion Renamed Star Wars: Supremacy in the UK Star Wars: Rebellion was a strategy game There are action sequences, but that's the game allowed you to skip them entirely. building, time management, diplomacy, resource behind the excitement of an interstellar war. right down the middle. Computer Games Magazine while Next Generation used its review to slapping the Star Wars name on any old trash. It's a bit too ambitious, perhaps, but it's It's not the easiest game to love, but #12: X-Wing Space combat is a common feature of the games on merging it with a flight simulator. It was not was a difficult game to fully understand and Anybody could line up some virtual crosshairs and but in X-Wing, you actually had to learn what satisfying in a way few other Star Wars games did. to play it - or, I suppose, fly it - loved about the best Star Wars games ever. Those who found it far less enjoyable, but its critical #11: Star Wars Episode I: Racer We could list all of the franchises that game, but it would be quicker to list all of that's it. Sorry; I thought there would be more. have little or nothing to do with there's Episode I: Racer, which is among the best. Episode I: Racer has an incredible its courses offer a variety of options leave real room for strategy. as one of the best Star Wars games, but the Take away the Star Wars license and we'd still #10: Super Star Wars: Return of the Jedi The Super Star Wars trilogy concluded with and played a lot like the previous two games, It hadmore varied environments, fun levels, We disagree with the critics on this one, as many previous games. We would argue instead that Return the Super Star Wars formula, which wasn't all that complain that three games in the same series It's especially silly for them to when they never even finished the previous two Maybe someone told you they finished the games, #9: TIE Fighter X-Wing, this game's predecessor, found obtuse mechanics and rock-hard difficulty, but the sequel to that game, took the criticism lose the sense of accomplishment but they also wanted to craft a more forgiving That could have ended up creating TIE Fighter is almost universally seen as the didn't stop at making X-Wing simpler or easier; rather than only addressed previous weaknesses. optional mode or an unlockable killing Rebels on behalf of the Empire. #8: Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order By this point in the list I've been tempted me count...fifty-one times. But I couldn't do Star Wars game. What's more, it's pretty good. relying on challenging combat with little room lot to appreciate, even if it does wear out its aimed at the blandness of the protagonist, but little else. The game sold more than 10 on Metacritic, depending on the version. on this list,and it is hopefully a sign #7: Star Wars Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader Rogue Squadron for the Nintendo 64 was a it was a much-needed hit for Nintendo as well. it was in the interest of both companies Rogue Squadron II looked and sounded even better more action, and more ships to master. and cockpit mode, so you could feel like I consider that to be a massive selling And yet, it wasn't quite as good as its what Star Wars games could be. Rogue Squadron II It's still worth playing, of course; it's a #6: Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy After the excellent Jedi Outcast, developer produce a direct sequel. This felt like a a renowned subseries but, honestly, Jedi Academy mainly because Kyle Katarn is relegated to player taking control of his protege instead. amount of customization it offersand the improved compelling as Katarn did, and the story doesn't Jedi Academy ended up being the as sidelining Katarn for this game seemed to imply others. Jedi Academy isn't the best Jedi Knight #5: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy Portable, Xbox, Xbox 360, PC because I'm people. But there was one thing the prequels. It's a simple fact that the original and has had a greater impact on pop culture in but I find your lack of taste disturbing. three movies was guaranteed to be a hit. It had and refined gameplay. It also reviewed better, Even the PSP version was great! The game sold more than one and ended up being within the ten best-selling That's astonishing, and not #4: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords For the sequel to what was already being lauded which would go on to be lauded as one of the to Obsidian, a name we all know today, Opinion is overall split on how Knights of the its predecessor. Critics said it inherited and introduced significant bugs to the experience. of releasing an unfinished game. satisfyingly grey in this game, the characters the first installment was improved upon. but we're not sure it measures up to the #3: Star Wars: Rogue Squadron Looking at the evolution of Star Wars games as a whole. Compare what it looked like The Empire Strikes Back with what it It's impressivejust how far Even more impressive is how large Star Wars varied missions, and classic Star Wars moments clearly doing its best to make the definitive Star from the then-unreleased Episode I, waiting until If Rogue Squadron has any real shortcomings it's a whomade it a massive sales success. For many to this day. Not for us, though. And #2: Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast The second Jedi Knight game - and the third game forward. Everything fans loved about the previous lightsaber-atively...every aspect of the It also holds up impressively well. Granted, and its objectives could do with some on the Switch and PlayStation 4 has reminded The real star here is Katarn himself, whose soured him on the whole Light Side / Dark to his quieter life as a mercenary. Yes, Katarn left a surprisingly large mark on Star even becoming an action figure...one of very few Nice work, Kyle. But there's a #1: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Star Wars games can be system sellers. to assume that Knights of the Old Republic gain a foothold in the gaming market. It was was universally praised, and made a Developed by BioWare - fast establishing and Neverwinter Nights - the game Knights of the Old Republic is considered one and has been lauded for its compelling It was also highly detailed and well animated, The Force Alignment system has more of an morality system, as well, with your character's proximity to the Light or Dark side. narrative twists, which we won't spoil And, yes, that's my coy way of assuring you And that's every Star Wars game ranked from worst you. Tell us in the comments which Star Wars game one. Tell us which of these games you're how wrong we are about everything we've just said. Ranked From Worst to Best" videos, let us know. long to make that it seems like we don't. and while you're at it, why not support the things don't forget to like the video, share it with I'm Ben,and I'm Peter from