I polled my audience, and 92% of you said you good enough. This is so crushing. Believing to depression and anxiety. So we're going you feel like a failure for feeling like a that we can work through this. But first, let me relevant. Okay. So last year, Ryan and I bought So previous to that we've always bought couches chances. But I guess now that we're like 40 we couch. So we picked out a couch from Costco, and we had to figure out how to get it into our house. And it was in this huge box, like 4 feet by like 7 feet. we could like barely lift it. So we tried to get in too narrow. So then we tried to get it through the then our hallway turns 90deg, and we couldn't get it it did not feel like a sitcom in the moment. We're - are like heaving this enormous box all over the it. And okay, I promise this has something to do So then we try flipping it like vertical to try just keep it in this huge box because it has these the box we won't have anything firm to grip, just give up. I was exhausted. Ryan was frustrated. We may taking the dumb thing back to Costco. So finally box.&quot; So we open up the box and lo and behold, the click together, and they're like 20 pounds each, I don't we unpacked it, it was pretty easy to manage. So It's so scary. And no one taught us what to do with them out of the box because maybe we won't be able up, when we break them down into small pieces, we can totally handle them. So when we do this kind say, &quot;Man, why didn't I do this sooner? It wasn't as belief that you're never good enough. And maybe we profusely. Okay. So to deal with this harmful belief, enough for what? If you don't clarify what this like you're never reaching it. All right. So let's than me. Like everyone else seems happy, but I'm So compared to other people I'm not rich enough, be better than all the people at all the things, me up for a lose-lose. I can literally never win. outsourcing your worth to others. You decide to determine if you're good enough or not. Now, extra tough, which is self-improvement media and helpful, right, but honestly, every time I watch Instagram I simultaneously learn a bunch of stuff parent. Social media shows us others' facades, and in comparison to the 59 seconds that they do modern challenge is marketing. So I'm talking about is to sell products by convincing us that there listicles send the message that if you only follow faster, richer, stronger, etc. They basically want to the infomercial who drops everything. Marketers Research shows that children who are exposed to not immune to this. So if comparison is the root to take. So first, if you want to survive in this exposure. Be very conscious of the effect that limit your time on social media and to carefully for you. Unfortunately, we can't throw all the just start with setting some limits on your phone. of stink at that. The atomic habits guy had his at the beginning of the work week so he could get phone again. Deleted. And I actually really like a dumb phone. Okay. Moving on. Second, what if we no longer has anything to do with whether other on your own values, what you want your life to for you to figure out the kind of life you really yourself comparing yourself to others, you can that you want to be. Each day or each week you can being creative or loving or hardworking. Did I live person. Okay. Number two: the second chunk of feeling but it's often subtle. Maybe you don't think you're sneaky ways that perfectionism shows up. Maybe you You might believe that you need to be flawless way, that is not possible. Or maybe you believe that problems, like, &quot;Why am I struggling with this? Other a lot of people feel I'm just not a good enough our honest desires to show up for others and treat step further to &quot;I must be perfect to be valued, idea that like if I'm not perfect, I'm failing me: this is a belief not a reality. It's something but deeply wounding, and it's not truthful. It way. So the reality of relationships is that we that creates opportunities to make relationships being with other humans necessitates that at going to miscommunicate or we're going to make that good enough parenting is actually better Like there is research on this. Making mistakes relationships. And we have to accept our flaws also looks like withdrawing from people and So I remember one time like 20 years ago I was at these ancient skills, and an instructor reached needle basketry. And I said no because I was too missed out on that chance to learn. Like I can more often that I'm just not good at. I I embrace So assuming that you want to keep developing like &quot;I have to be good enough first and then I as a work in progress. I'll get good at making got to be better and improve yourself, and then is to increase your capacity to be vulnerable, to mess up. And then get really good at tolerating is a goal that you can actually achieve. So with want you to start questioning these lying little do something that's good enough instead of perfect. instead of presenting it like in a perfect way. say. Ask a girl out on a date that you think you decent but not perfect. I would I would love instead of protecting yourself by withdrawing from tell me about it in the comments if you'd like. lot of people feel like they're never good enough saying, &quot;Oh, I haven't reached my goals yet.&quot; Saying gold medal,&quot; that might be true, but saying &quot;I'm never sneaky, lying little thought. That's like saying still flying towards the destination instead of the plane. It's just in the middle of its journey. So about can you tolerate the process, the journey of So make your &quot;good enough&quot; about the process, not growing instead of a person who has everything is mechanically sound and moving in the right is staying in the hanger all the time. Okay. So for instead of focusing on making a million dollars Am I enjoying the creative process?&quot; And if right direction, then you are good enough. You make of whether or not you've arrived. Okay. So number four is &quot;stuff I learned that was wrong but I keep everyone likes me or approves of me.&quot; Someone on good enough, I ask myself not good enough for whom? matter to me? I try to challenge the thought and clients feel like they're never good enough, it's unpack it, we see that it's really about getting if someone doesn't like them or approve of them, myself to be perfect for them.&quot; And again, this game that's impossible to win. And really, do you high school bully who's become an Internet troll look where this comes from, and then let's flip the our parents. They have their own biases, their flaws, judgmental, critical, demanding, or have impossible their dream. And as children we desperately strive can hurt so much when we feel like we're never us feel that we weren't good enough? I like what inferior without your consent.&quot; As adults it's our sent and then ask ourselves, &quot;Do I agree with this?&quot; and over again, and they're accountable for that, believe, what you continue to feel. So the goal here being external - what other people think about you people tell us is worthwhile - to internal. And like I at least a handful of therapy sessions, or at the deep dive in the future. But for now, if you catch choose to notice that thought and try on something these mental habits that we have. It might sound kind of person I'm trying to be, and I will keep day, and that's good enough.&quot; &quot;God's grace makes from others.&quot; &quot;I focus on progress, not perfection.&quot; &quot;I being human.&quot; &quot;I accept myself as a whole.&quot; &quot;Flaws and is a journey, not a destination.&quot; Okay. So what you were good enough as a human? Comment below. Would you stop trying to convince someone to you take more risks? Okay. I've got one last thought &quot;Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. measure. It's our light not our darkness that be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous? Actually playing small does not serve the world. There other people won't feel insecure around you. As automatically liberates others.&quot; Feeling never we humans hold, but an even greater fear is that might cling to the crappy armor of believing feeble form of self-protection from the potential in relationships. You don't need to carry this vulnerability, strive to live your values, and lot. Let's review real quick. When you say, &quot;I'm seems perfectly happy, but I'm not&quot;? Let's shift to Okay. If you say, &quot;I can't perform without making a Mistakes are part of learning. If you say, &quot;I'm direction instead of outcomes. And if you say, &quot;I parents, accept this: not everyone's going to like you put out instead of what you get. Shift your perceptions. And most important of all, don't hide yourself to be vulnerable by believing that you for spending this time with me. If you would every month, as well as getting access to all of to join the Therapy in a Nutshell membership. And would be different if you knew deep in your