[APPLAUSE] ASWATH DOMODARAN: Thank you. Thank you very much. I just posted, a on where-- I actually am very of three different businesses. I'm a teacher first. I love to write, And the way I described that are all the begging to be badly-run businesses, need to be taken So I've made it my in my life to disrupt the And this is one of those Because I think, thought about teaching as being but I don't see that So what I'd like to what I've been To give you some background, And when I first came to NYU, It was called Security Analysis. And for those of you who know it was a class than Ben in the 1950s, that you know took. And it's a class with a So they handed it you've got to teach this class. I took one look at the This is the most boring of topics I can think, it was showing its age. So I went to head of I'd like to teach And he said, don't do it. There isn't enough to actually teach a class. And you know what? In 1986, there wasn't There were no In fact, when I did my back in time-- 1979 through we spent about an hour and a So I thought about it. And I said, I'd really And I considered two options. One is to go the official is to ask officially for And if you've ever been in of you have how, you it is to get things done A committee will be formed to And by the time they get back So I discovered early that if you want to get to do it subversively. So here's what I did. I said, OK, I'll teach the And I went into the classroom, They have absolutely no idea I mean, I could be teaching So you know how long it In 2008, I got a call This is 22 years after I've We've heard you're And I said, yes. I've been doing it for 22 years. They said, we should I said, welcome to reality. So if you look at you won't see But that's because I've in previous iterations and made I'm fascinated by Valuation. But I'll tell you upfront I think valuation is simple. Fundamentally, anybody I think we choose Whose we? The people who Why? Because that's how You've got to cover things keep people away. So I want to get back to basics. Obviously, in 40 going to cover the But I want to kind of hit some get missed, especially at valuation from the outside. So here's the first Valuation is not accounting. And the reason I say that valuation, think numbers, think income balance sheets. Valuation is not accounting. And it's actually a task I face In fact many of the come into my class in the first When they come in they've taken one And if you've looked at how MBA programs are I get museum directors. I get basketball players. So to them, the only sense is the Accounting class. And part of my job of the accounting mindset. So let me start the way I see the difference look at the world and how Accounting is backward-looking-- So nothing I say should It's their job to So if you look at a balance if you open up a 10-K will see a balance sheet. This is a classic So let me look at the breakdown a company. On the asset side, down into current inventory, accounts receivable, land, building, equipment. Accountants are big on For some reason, they're much more Then you have financial assets-- And then you have what like to call intangible assets. Now, if I went around to name intangible lots of things come to technology. But if you look at an you know what the most AUDIENCE: Goodwill. ASWATH DOMODARAN: Goodwill. And let's be completely Goodwill is the most And here's why-- for in an accounting know what a company has to do? It has to acquire So if you're the in the face of the Earth with internal investments, on your balance sheet-- period. The minute you do an And here's why it pops up. You acquire a company. It as a book value So what do the accountants before you acquired it? It's worth $4 billion. It's worth $4 billion. You offer $10 billion. The accountant has a $6 billion So you know what he does? He calls it goodwill. He puts it on the balance sheet. And he has to do it because unpleasant requirement. It has to balance. Goodwill is a plug variable. The problem with Goodwill And when something feel the urge to pay for it. So every week, I get I'm valuing this company. It has $5 billion in goodwill. How much should I pay for it? And my response is, What the heck are you doing On the other side of again, accountants You have Current Liabilities, Supplier Credit, Deferred Then you've got bank loans, corporate bonds. And then you have an item that's If you get a look at the balance sheet. There will be a Take any company. There's a Shareholders' You know what goes into it? Everything that's happened to Think about it. When you look at the Cola, in that number is the that Coca Cola made-- which and everything that's The Shareholders' Equity is So here's what I'm I'm going to I prefer to look at a company And at some level, a is far simpler than an At another level, Look at the asset side there are only two items-- Assets. Let's take the Assets in Place are made as a company. That's pretty straightforward, you've already made. Pick any company you want. Think of the investments Growth Assets is It's a value I'm I expect you to make, next year, 10 years out, forever. I'm giving you you haven't even That's pretty scary, right? An accountant can never do that. But I play by no that you have great I can give you a large value. Let's look at a contrast. You look at Proctor &amp; Gamble. Where's most of the value Investments they've already Most of the stuff is already on the ground. What else are they going to do? But if you look at can pick any young and I'm not going to pick Just think of any On a good day, may be are worth $1 billion, because in operating income last year. You're paying $40 The extra $39 Expectations, Nothing wrong with it. But that's the first stop You've got to stop and What are you buying, when Because the way you is going to be very different, opposed to LinkedIn. If you're Proctor &amp; be very focused on and say, how much did If you're LinkedIn, who cares That's why, when I see investors reports from young companies-- Take any social media company. Look at how they freak out. Earnings per share were I don't care, because is not coming from It's coming from what I think So when look at an earnings I'm not looking at what I'm looking for clues as to increasing or not. Are they doing the right from their growth assets? Most of the tools were developed for PE Ratios, Return on Invested taught in Business school. But if you have you try to asses them It's like using a Think about it. That's going to be going to come to a bad end. It doesn't work. So one interesting when you sit with a businesses sheet and contrast with the The younger a will learn by looking at sheet, a for a simple reason. If you haven't been around has nothing to record. So if you look at a Twitter balance sheet, there Doesn't make them It just makes the different. And on the other side you've got only two There are only two ways You can borrow the money, You can slice this and dice You can call them But every business has And guess what? You tell me where the bulk I'll tell you whether you with debt or equity. And think why. Let's say, you're a How young? You're an idea business. You're Snapchat-- no yet, plenty of potential. How should you What's the problem to fund an idea of business? Have you tried paying Go to the banker and I have a lot of ideas. You can't make interest If you're an idea business, Don't go looking for trouble. You have to raise equity. So that's the first message Here's the second one. I often see Valuation classed In fact, some of you might have by Training the Street. I like those guys. They come in with spreadsheets. They teach you how You can write macros You can do those into yellow, green, And at the end of two days, And you think, this is at the end of the process. in fact, the way I is to step back and drives the value of a company. If I'm asked to value are four basic questions Here's the first one. You've already made those What are the cash flows you're investments? Could be very small if you're But that's my starting point. That's why I look at the to get a measure of what The second question I'm going that I see you creating Notice how I phrased I didn't ask you, what's Growth, by itself, can be worth or can destroy value. Grow can be good, because you've got So I'm going to ask, you create from future growth. Much more difficult what are your cash flows But I need that answer. Third, I'm going to ask, how Notice, I didn't to kind of buzz words What's a beta? Those are tools. Don't mistake tools I need a measure of risk. And I need to bring And finally, I'm going to ask, a mature business, some closure on this process. I cannot keep estimating So those are the four questions swivels, which then think about valuation. When I start my doesn't start until be 200 people who And the first question are your numbers people? Are you story people? Think about it for a moment. I bet, given where I am, that in this room than story people. And the reason I say that you have two camps. You have the numbers people, who It's all about the numbers. And it's the story people They like story telling. The VC business is a I know, they throw numbers in, But it's an after thought. It's a negotiating tool. It's a story game. And the problem right think that the numbers And the numbers people think crazy. And they can't In fact, sometimes, to sometimes watch two story trying to talk about things. And they're talking And here's the challenge When I come into that class How many numbers people? I ask them actually, to see which one you I ask them-- how many of you You have 20 people-- Those are the story people. So how many of you preferred That's the numbers And my end game for is to have numbers people with with discipline. That's the way to If you're a story going to stop you Stories actually at selling business And it's been true for have been on the Earth. So if you tell a story, is enough numbers to Because if you don't it's very easy to veer If you're a numbers person you're not going to be able all about the numbers. If you do a good evaluation, It should tell me a story. That's what I'm looking for. Behind the numbers, you're telling about a company? So when you look each believes they're The numbers people say, We have spreadsheets. We have numbers. We're on the right And the story people think, We have the great-- we And I think they're both There's something to be And to me, that is the key You've got to work with I don't even know whether it is a left brain and right brain. But let's face it. Some of us prefer to and we have to force ourselves And some of us prefer and we have to force ourselves Think about your weaker because that's what's going to So when I do a valuation-- and valuation. It's a tool. So when you hear DCF word-- and venture capitalists You're doing a DCF. And the way they say it, the You can't value this I think they're completely what a Discounted Cash Because ultimately, The value of your business of your expected cash flows That's been true for as long We can debate as to whether we But don't tell me, matter, that it doesn't matter makes money. We heard that in and look at how well that ended. It does matter So when I think about a a Discounted Cash is just a tool to bring questions. My cash flows and existing My value from growth gets fed and how much I'm setting My risk is built in And I bring it to that at some point in And I can estimate the that happens after that with But the DCF is not the end game. It's just a tool to convert So let me use a to kind illustrate this. I want to pick somebody who's And we're going to do Anybody who's never OK, you can be my Guinea pig. I can't move too have to be on the camera. But this is an empty envelope. I'm not David Copperfield, So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to put a $20 bill. It's a little crumpled, but How much should you Don't think too long. That's what gets us in trouble. AUDIENCE: $20. ASWATH DOMODARAN: First if you pay $20 for an envelope So let's try again. How much should you AUDIENCE: $10. ASWATH DOMODARAN: Go $1. You never know what I might not be able First rule in valuation-- if don't throw it on the table. You know the value of a company. Don't offer that value up front. Because then what do you Put it in your back and then build up. But this is such a that if I put it up my guess is, by the you'd probably get Now I'm going to What is this going card say? AUDIENCE: Control. ASWATH DOMODARAN: Control-- into this envelope. How much should you pay It's got control in it. You know what? I tried this in In investment banks, If you put a control into a I don't know where The guy offered me $24. I sold it. He thought it was a game. I said, no, no, no, no, Pay me the $24. So guess what he'd done? He paid $4 for a that I stole from NYU, that This is a money machine. Now that I know you like cards with nice sounding What does it say? AUDIENCE: Synergy. ASWATH DOMODARAN: I'll throw that in there. That will probably go to $26. What does this say? AUDIENCE: Brand name. ASWATH DOMODARAN: Brand That's $32 right now. And if that doesn't work, What does this say? AUDIENCE: Strategic ASWATH DOMODARAN: is the most dangerous word. When I hear the word, strategic, Because you know what it means? The numbers don't fly, really want to do this. A strategic deal is But you really want to do this. A strategic buyer is a synonym who makes up his and then shows up at the table. And if nothing else works that always works. What does this say? AUDIENCE: China. ASWATH DOMODARAN: China. Just mention the word. It's amazing how leave through the other door. Take a look at earnings reports. Every company that reports at the end they would Nothing about China, That alone doesn't it. They said, China. OK, we'll forget The fact that you've lost You have China. I call these weapons You know they come out In fact, I have a When I read an count the number of times I have a list of a dozen. And the more times the less substance because this it's you can't come up with a real So here's my first proposition. It's called the It Proposition. If it does not affect the cash risk, it cannot affect values. And what's it? Whatever it is controls synergy. I'm not saying, control But if you tell me tell me what it's Maybe by controlling you're going to generating different cash my revenues will grow faster. Let's talk about specifics. You can't let buzzwords Because if you let you're going to And worse, you're not going because there's The second proposition, I I've named it after a subset And usually this is I'm valuing a I expect it to Which valuation model will work I feel like walking slapping them around the You're valuing a You expect to lose You're thinking about What's wrong with you? Which brings me to the third next week, when my class starts, In fact, I insist that They have to value those or 15 weeks, over the semester. They can pick whatever They can pick Lukoil. They can pick Google. They can pick Amazon. And sometime in the a subset of people-- not thank god-- but 10 of I have to change my company. I say, it's a little early. Why are you panicking? They say, well, I worked out And they're negative. And you said in the if the cash flows are negative, And I say, that's If the cash flows you can't value the company. But if your cash flows one, year two, year three, In fact, there are a when you value the company, you up front. What types of companies will up front? AUDIENCE: Growth companies. ASWATH DOMODARAN: Young growth To grow, what do you have to do? You've got to put money There is no magic can use to grow at 80% a year. So if I'm valuing expect to see negative Why? Because you've got to plants to deliver those I expect you to sell But if you have negative you've got to have large positive cash You see why they have to be You use $1 billion in year one. You've got to make up for it So with young growth exactly what you You should see negative because that's what you And as a company matures, Cash flows turn positive. You get the big values. But that's OK. So here one way to think about You sit down to value a company. You pull up the financials-- That will give you this company did last year. And if you have that might be all you need. Because they're so that you can pretty much value financials. But if you have a company that's changing, you have to about how the who the competitors are. When you think going to look at the past. You're going to You're going to be looking at And my only suggestion if don't do a blind Google search. You know what mean? So if you say-- For instance, I If I type in Uber in Everything ever on the face of the Earth. When you search, you In other words, you first figure And then you go looking for it. In fact, what I do is, I with the inputs I need. And with each one, I I'm looking for right now. I'm not going to if I find something interesting for the moment. I'm going to stay if I'm looking at the all I'm looking for. Are there any clues at the company, the market, about that risk? And at the end of keeping my eyes on the prize. This is not about It's about taking data and We live in a world where That's the reality we face. Our job is to take the into information that actually So here's a simple of a very boring company. We all know what 3M does, right? Incredibly sophisticated but don't laugh. It's an incredibly It's a company with And this is a valuation I call the days of innocence. Those are the days when on one side and emerging And never the twain So it's a mature I thought was a mature market. In hindsight, I was But my point is, in valuing But those estimates Why? Because there was a lot I knew what their I didn't have to figure out what So it's a valuation There was uncertainty, but the The way to think think about narrative and the story is almost done. You're in chapter 33. There's not much room for You can't go back and So this is a valuation that you And this is the kind taught to value in a And I have some really If this is the kind of anybody can value these I'm not even sure In fact, how many of you Or is that not If you have an Apple device, in uValue. It's an app that I co-developed Anand Sundaram at Dartmouth, So you download it. You plug-in the numbers. If your flight is you have nothing to do. You're one of those who likes to work with numbers. You put in nine numbers. You value a company. You move on. And I wrote it because I wanted business. Because so much of what a banker feeding in numbers and then spending 25 days a lot of other stuff millions of dollars he has no business So if you're valuing 3M you don't need an appraiser. You don't need a banker. Anybody should be able But let's talk about more This is a valuation I did I've actually valued Apple But since 2010, I've been What I mean by that is, on my so that a good think about it-- because I don't The way I describe it is, wrong than opaquely right. And in this business, people What I mean by say things that are so that no matter what happens, And it drives me crazy. So what I do is, I say, this is is. And of course, I'm But at least you can So this is a valuation I Because every time a new I re-value the company. So I'm due for one very soon, reports just came out last week. What I'm trying to in traditional valuation, You making best case. Basically, not make your expected for things like cash point estimates. So I ask you what the growth is. You give me a number. You ask me what the risk is. You give me a number. But the reality, if is, you face uncertainty. You have a distribution and I'm forcing you And part of you is saying, It could be 11%. And 25 years ago, I can You had to do that, have the tools to actually I actually have Crystal If any of you use a simulation add-on to Excel. And what it allows a distribution for rather than a single number. So if I'm writing a rather than give one number, So rather than say, revenue it's uniformly distributed And the more the wider the distribution And if any of you have here's what happens. The computer goes and picks and does a valuation. Crystal Ball's default This is what my simulated value What is that? How does that help me? The stock price was $450. In my base case valuation, So I could give you the I think Apple is undervalued. But your defense will be, Of course, I could be wrong. But what the distribution shows And if I'm a decision-maker, on a richer set of information. Because here's what I can I can give you an expected I can also tell you, if you are wrong upfront is. I can give you an There's a 21% chance All I have to do is count the And I put up a distribution. And in March of 2013, based I know I can be hopelessly But based on the like there's a 90% chance-- you The 10th percentile The stock is trading at $450. Investing is a game of odds. And it looks to me, that the odds are in my favor. And of course, this that's worked out hopelessly Hopelessly, well because with the seven to one split. Not everything But what I'm trying to say is, And especially in the I find this defense You ask people, why are you Because there's too What does that mean? Your estimates could be you can't make an estimate. Saying that this too much and then investing to me, is the And lots of venture capitalists over and over again. They say, I don't want but I'll invest in the company. You can't tell me one So if you cannot at least do the logical thing companies. But if you want to invest you have to get your and make your best estimates. Now, of course, with all these questions become In you're the founder let me ask you to which I need answers. And you're going to see why First question-- what from existing assets? You're a young startup. What the answer to the question? What assets? I have nothing. I'm sitting on a chair. I don't even own it. OK, that was easy. Then I ask you, how future growth will bring in? You say, a lot. I say, can you be a Not really-- I don't even I say, how risky are you? Very. But you can't give me because you haven't been around. I say, when will you And you fall on the You might not even make Every question becomes And that's why, with young My suggestion is, make your best estimates. Don't put the weight of the saying, I have to be right. You cannot be right, but you For the last four you've had a big IPO come I've tried to value the IPO. The reason I do it the is, if you wait until that number starts gnawing So when you do a starts to wander So this is actually a valuation before their IPO. So what triggered this So once in awhile, I And I was actually-- we And there's an analyst there about Twitter. So I said, why do you think He thought it was about He said, because the online So I said, how big is the He said, I don't This is exactly what People don't want to Online, it's huge. And because it's huge, I So I said, you know what? If I want to value Twitter, I need to figure out how Doesn't take a whole lot of But the entire online was about $120 billion. That's the whole global The biggest player, And if you look at the Google is about 33% of the The next biggest is have a splintered business. So that's the I do know that is becoming a larger and larger Print media is So here's what I had to do I had to figure out how big Because before I talk about are going to be, I what they're aiming for. So I make some assumptions. I assume that the market is about $550 billion. So about 20% of all advertising But the overall advertising a year, because it's an They can't grow at 10% a year. But online advertising as a percentage of that to That gave me my endgame. It give me my online advertising It's about $200 billion. AUDIENCE: How did ASWATH DOMODARAN: I made it up. And I made it up on I looked at how quickly revenues are dropping. Print advertising is But TV advertising has actually So there are certain where I think you're going Billboard advertising Because if you're driving, Maybe you'll figure But you'll have a So I made that assumption. Clearly, that's where different values for Twitter. But at least we're So if you made a it's going to be 60% So you have to go marshal So I use 40%. And then I had to as to what percentage of that That's tough. You've all seen how It's that sponsored Tweet no end. I've never clicked I hope nobody ever does. But that's the way they make And that's their strength Their strength is Their weakness is That's a strength, because The weakness is, it can't So the way I see it is, it'll never be It'll be a lesser player. And that led me to use a for Twitter, which is Here's a company with a half right now. And over the next it's going to go So that gave me half the game. I then have to figure will make once they're And there are two One is Google, and Both are immensely profitable. Google's margins are Facebook's are about 30%. And Facebook's each year that you watch them. Because as they get bigger, to maintain-- these But I thought I was being a 25% end margin for Twitter. I said, that's what So I've got my I've got my margins in year 10. I also had to bring in that isn't going to happen by magic. You're not going to go from to $12 billion, without So I had to estimate would have to put back in acquisitions, new technology. That's a reinvestment And I'm computing it based on changing each year. Those three pieces The small revenues The losses become profits. The reinvestment to drive the revenue growth. That's what I spent Most people who do this there are two parts to DCF, There's the D and the CF. The D is the discount rate. Here's my problem with 80% of the time that is on the D. They'll finesse 20% is on cash flow. I'll make a confession. The Twitter valuation, that I spent was on the cash said, I need a discount rate. And for the discount effectively used a And I didn't think 11% puts you in the 95th So I'm basically saying, I could finish But I really don't care. This is really the small stuff. My bigger assumption is what my margins will be. This is not where I'm And I always have to factor there's a chance that In the case of Twitter, was zero chance that because they have It's not that they But they seem to have access money, even if they screw up. And that's a nice skill to have. Those are the things that fed And in the week before the IPO, And if you remember your And on the offering even open for about two hours. And when it did open, And I got a call how do you explain the $46. And I said, I don't have to. I didn't pay it. I've never felt what some other person pays. AUDIENCE: What was ASWATH DOMODARAN: $18 per share? Yeah. So I get calls saying, how do Ask somebody who I didn't do it. I just take Uber once in awhile. But I'm not big $41 So I don't feel the urge In fact, that's one final Much of what you see passing is really pricing. If you have no idea let me give you a couple How many of you own a What, Google doesn't to buy your own apartment? Time to raise your salary, so You know how this works. What do you do? You hire a realtor. The realtor shows you a house. I'm thinking of especially after two 28 winter in New My wife is from California. I'm going back. I went to UCLA. I can't take this anymore. So I talked to my wife. And the minute I said it, Hey, this is a good thing. And she picks the most to look-- La Jolla. This is a slum in La Jolla. It's less than $1 million. That shows it's one of the in La Jolla. But here's my question. How did the realtor come up with How does a realtor come up with What does he or she do? She looks at other apartments. Or he looks at other units adjusts for the fact that or a bigger lot. It's pricing There's You think, those Let me show you a second. You've seen an equity If you haven't, save yourself what the analyst will do. There will be a company name. There will be a multiple, which like a price per square There will be 15 other companies are just like your company. In what universe, I don't know. I've seen Google Equity These 15 companies Oh, really? That's amazing. How do you find those? I would argue that the realtor looking at apartments than an Equity Research 15 companies like Google. But that's exactly what is doing-- pricing on what comparable companies nothing comparable about them. You're saying, those Analysts. You sometimes see looks like one of if you pay a banker, this is The next time you see a zero in on the biggest number valuation. It's always the end number, the Take a look at where And I'll wager, in nine out that number comes from applying What do I mean by that? In this case, here's what I did. I took the operating income in Why 10? Because that's what other I can tell you all but this is a pricing as well. I'm just hiding it in year five. I call these pricing in drag. The drag component While you're distracted you slip in 10 times. That's what's Most of what passes for You're saying, so what. It's a very different game. What sets prices? It's demand and supply, What's sets value? Cash flows, growth, and risk. Could the two give Absolutely. If you are trader-- not you care about prices. What's CNBC? CNBC is an instrument for trade. You are trading the stock. All you care about So the only question I'm What's the momentum? Where's it going? So if you ask me to explain why for Uber, you know why? Because they think they That's basically that they can take it in billion. Are they right? If the momentum continues, Does that mean that Uber That's a very Sometimes price and And if they diverge, very different numbers. The social media space In fact, if you ask me why at what they do, I have It's not because how much It's not because how Thank god for that, because So here's what I did. I decided to let the data tell And here's what I did I took every social It's easy to get the public value is. And then I collected all about these companies-- what they had in earnings. What I was trying how is the market What is it using to And I drew on statistics All I did was a correlation and different variables, to correlation with the market. So what is it that makes some and the others not? And you could look And by far-- look The most critical the market value of a is the number of users. I'll give you a very simple way Here again, you the trouble of hiring a banker. You tell me how If you go back to the market is paying You tell me how I'll tell you what your value So how many users 250 million. 250 million times We're done. Who cares about cash Facebook is 175 billion They wish they had 175 billion. What planets are you going onto? 1.75 billion users-- you You get $175 billion. And remember last year when How many of you have How many of you pay That settles my case, In fact, last year, when the paid $20 billion for seems to have rounded up to 21. Don't ask me how It's just a couple I got a call again, saying, people think I have to How do you explain And I said, you're Facebook is not buying WhatsApp flows and the revenues. What are they doing? AUDIENCE: The users. ASWATH DOMODARAN: How many Like 400 million. Even if you allow for the fact of those are already you're buying 300 if the market is 300 million times You're getting a bargain. Don't laugh. This game is going People are buying what the market is rewarding. You're saying, what's Markets are fickle. Today, they like users. Tomorrow, they might not. Remember, they liked website But they said, you know what? I can't pay dividends It's kind of tough to say, I'll Send them to my house. They'll work around. I paid a lot of At some point, they're And the way I describe it's like having a on the shelves and That's you're buying. What are you hoping for? That if you put something they'll stop and buy it. It's not an unreal exercise. Call it a field of dreams. Remember, Kevin Costner, &quot;if Shoeless Joe. It's the same thing. If we have the How it will come, I don't know. But it will come. But that's what It's not about what you It's what the market brings me to my last point. And I hate to be the This is a game where luck When I say, this, I'm venture capital investing, We like to think it's It's luck. If you're lucky, you can and be incredibly rich. If you're not, it doesn't You're still going If you're lucky, all And all too often, they like to claim it's skill. For a while, the hedge fund We're skillful guys. We're the smartest Says who? When people talk about smart There is no smart money. There's less stupid money But there's really And in fact, the best is no smart money in hedge funds to the hedge fund business. You know how hedge First, they take 2% of Then they take 20% of It's a horrendously bad set up. But you do it because You think they can deliver Collectively, hedge funds point less than by putting your money in It's a strange business. I can't think of-- the analogy business called Floods R Us. And here's what you do. There's a leak in your house. You call me, and You would never call me back. That's what we do collectively We pay them tons of Earn less than what we could You figure it out, So here's my final It's one of my favorite &quot;The Wizard of Oz.&quot; Remember the story? Dorothy gets sucked She gets dumped in Oz. She wants to go back to Kansas. Don't ask me why. I'd have stayed in Oz. So of course, the move starts And of course, she's Go meet the Wizard of Oz. He has all the answers. The entire movie is about road and this motley she collects-- the Scarecrow Tin Man, the Lion. And they all get to Oz, to be this all powerful They walk into the chamber. They each tell the And the wizard has this deep And you realize it's a small been pulling-- there's But it turns out what they needed, during You say, what's this got I firmly believe that you You really want to Here's what you need to do. Value a company. The first time you do it, it Then value another from the first So next week, I'm It's a crowd valuation of Uber At each stage, I ask you Is it a car-service company Is it a local networking benefit I can tell you my story. And at the end of the process, this is Uber's value. And the value for from $800 million depending on the story you tell. When we get big it's not because the It's because we have Not all of these narratives And that's really the It's, what is the right I promised I would But I will leave you If you're thinking about Google as an investor, here's What is the narrative I'm What do I see this Because that's what's going to not the fact that because you did not deliver the growth. Who cares? In the larger scheme don't change your narrative. If investors react to This is about telling the kinds of decisions That's about it. Thank you very If you have any a couple of minutes to Yes. [APPLAUSE] AUDIENCE: I was wondering. You had these graphs on what your valuations are. Have you done an analysis of how compared to-- ASWATH DOMODARAN: It's like nailing And here's what I mean by that. It's a very noisy process. This is a distribution If I move forward a month the entire distribution It's really not about the It's about value versus price. So what you can look right about values, the In the case of Apple, it But it's a sample of one. So it's almost an If you're an investor, you moves towards value. There's no guarantee So if you do your job. You collect the information. You make your best judgment. You estimate a value and you decide, based What you're checking whether the value but whether the price And I believe it does. And that's why I stick with it. But it's a fact-based process. If it doesn't work, Yes? AUDIENCE: Was it ever moves over the value? ASWATH DOMODARAN: Again, a reality here, perception is fine. If you're valuing a Picasso, it's all perception. If tomorrow we all woke up He's got a nose in But a business can't So price can deviate from It's not a question of It's when it does. And that's really the debate. There are some people who say, that there's no point Those are the traders. They say, well look, I'm going If your time horizon don't even waste your You have to play So it's almost a given, when that you have a Yes. AUDIENCE: So a Google, our valuation is first, because How do you mix in this whole team on board. And how to you incorporate ASWATH DOMODARAN: Well, I'll tell you what I think rather than speak about Google. At the right price, I At the wrong price, I Basically, at the can buy the worst And you're going At the wrong price, you but you're already screwed. In acquisitions, is that we spend too much time and doing all that neat and too little time asking, You're right. After the acquisition, there's you have to do, to if you're talking about what drives your acquisitions it creates. So that requires that of the company you've acquired to deliver it. That requires work. And that's, I think, It's not going to And that's why I prefer that it that you start of what you're going to rather than wait after the This is not going to work. So if you've got an It's got to be disciplined. And it will work only if from the table, even target you've ever found, If you're never willing to you are going to overpay, And in too many big is that the company decides and then goes to the You're in terrible if you've already decided Last question, then AUDIENCE: I have a question. ASWATH DOMODARAN: Go ahead. AUDIENCE: So I was curious. What is your take on an like us, who have And a lot of us are not MBAs And the traditional, is to buy at index point. I was just curious. Do you endorse that? Or for someone who's what do you recommend? ASWATH DOMODARAN: Well, And if you don't have it's probably best at risk by doing heard somebody say it. So my suggestion is, go with the strategy. It doesn't always have It Has to be some kind of-- and don't overreach. You don't get rich by investing. You get rich by doing And investing is about made elsewhere and growing it. It's when you get to make that killing that you tend to overreach. So I have to stop there. Unfortunately, I I wish this were not true. I'd have normally So thank you very much