Today I'm going to show to get started properly I'm Leila from xelplus.com have been using Teams for over a year now. We switched over from Slack and we're not looking back. With Teams you can in a single and secure location. You get messaging, online live collaboration on files, native integration with office apps, but also integration that you're currently using. So let me show you how you can get Teams and how you can start using it properly. (upbeat music) You can get to Teams and going to teams.microsoft.com. Here you need to log into your business or educational office account. Once you login, you can get to Teams and you can use it over the web, but I recommend getting the desktop app for your workstation because You don't have to be in the browser. Just click here to download it. It's also available for Mac. You can also download Teams under Download Teams. I'm going to bring up Now, if it's the first you have to log in. I've already logged in. So it's taking me directly to Teams. On this side, you have menu options. The one that you're going This is where all the action, everything happens. This Teams view that you're seeing is for an enterprise account. If you have an education account, you might see this view instead. You'll just have to click a Now let's get back to Up here, you can see the So let's assume I'm a and I belong to two teams. One is a management team that in my organization. And the other is a finance team that I share with my direct reports. So usually each team And your view of the teams that you see depend on your rights. So if I log in with my account, I can see an additional which is what we use for Inside a team you can These are generally organized by topic. General is there by default, and you can use this as your main channel, but you're probably going within the team that you So for example, in the finance and training conversations separately. What if you want to add a new channel? Well, all we have to do and add the channel to this. Depending on your rights, you might see different options here. So let's go ahead and add a Because let's say this is a topic We don't want these with all the other channels that we have. Go to add channel, type You can even add an emoji if you want, just use the shortcut key Windows Dot, and add your emoji to this. You can add a description for your channel and update the privacy. Default is that everyone in the team will have access to this channel, but you can change that to specific people within the team. In this case, I'm just and add this channel. Now we can keep conversations separate to other topics. If you're the team owner, you Go back to more options and add a member. You can search for people by just starting to type their name and then send a request to get them added. You can also add guests by Once you're done, you can send a request. You'll notice if a channel has a guest by taking a look at the This channel has one guest. The management channel here has no guests, only people from the organization. If a channel is in bold, it means there is a conversation in there that you haven't looked at yet. Once you're in a channel, the You'll see all the different and you can reply to conversations. You can also give your You also get the option to translate. So this text is in German, I can translate this. It's going to try to figure and translate it into my team's language. Translated messages have to show this in the original language. Again, go and select, You can start a new conversation by selecting new conversation. Just type in your text. If you'd like to add line breaks, use the shortcut key Shift + Enter. If you'd like to add more click on format. This is going to give you a In addition, you can add a subject which is going to help your You can also add bullet you can add links, you Pick how many rows and columns you want, add your table to the message. If a message is important, You also have the ability in multiple channels. Just select your channel By default messages are You can change that to This makes it even bigger You can give your announcement a headline, select the color scheme that you want and even add a background picture. In this case, I'm just going Now, in addition to this, you can also @ mention specific people to make sure that they are Just start typing their name, If you want to send everyone @ mentioned the channel name. Here you can use Enter without problems. Once you're done with your Talking about getting notifications, if you're learning something do hit that thumbs up and consider subscribing to my channel so you can improve your Now we both know that To manage your channel notifications, go to more options, channel notifications. You can turn these off if you want or customize the notifications, depending on how and when you Now, you also have the ability in a channel. So for example, let's say if go to more options and pin this. Pinned messages are going and green icon here. But they will also disappear from view as more messages get added. To view all your pinned items, so this information icon and you can see your pinned When you select the message, it's going to take you back You can unpin items anytime, go back to more options and select unpin. Now, in addition to like we saw before, you also have the ability You can upload these from or from Teams and Channels. You can also send animated emojis. You also have the option So one of my standard ones that I use as my good morning GIFs with is for example, this one. Another other cool feature is the ability to add stickers and memes. A lot of these are customizable. Just select the one that click on done, and you I'm just going to remove these. Now, other things you can do from here, is to schedule a meeting. You can meet now and have an We're going to take a You can also add a link to So if you've previously you can add the link to that Another cool feature, is It's a nice way to say, thank you, recognize people for their courage or just tell them that they're awesome. You can type their name here, preview it and then send it. Okay, so these are the main Now let's take a look at files. The first tab is available by Whenever you or other members you can see them automatically You can also directly upload You can add new documents Any files you create here to the SharePoint drive for this group. You can collaborate and your changes will automatically This is great because you have protections as well as collaboration benefits. So let's say right now another team member is in this document. I can have it conversation with Any changes we make to this file are automatically saved in SharePoint. Now let's say I'm done with the file, I just need to click close. If I don't want to make but instead I want to create a copy, I can do that by clicking on I also have the ability to I can rename documents delete documents or pin If you have a business account, you also have access to Wiki here. In case you have an education like class notebook The purpose of Wiki is like a notebook, you can use it as a central you don't want to get For example, best practices, and the like. Every channel has its own Wiki, the project channel has Wiki in use and they've even added links and to other files. It acts as a central hub The best part of Teams is that you can customize by adding other apps. Now these can be Microsoft So notice you have access Now the reason you'd want to do that, is so you don't have to leave Teams to get to your other apps. You have one location where So let's see you use Trello to You can add that specific directly in here so all First you need to login with Trello, then you need to select the with your team. Let's just add the to-do here and save. This is going to add the Now, your team members will for authentication and then directly from within Teams. If it's hidden, click on and you can see the board. If you're using Microsoft Select tasks by planner, or create a new plan and click on save. Now, there are some great So for example, Polly or You can also directly add files So for example, let's say that you want to make Select that file. This is a file that have already uploaded to my file drive and save. Now this file is available in my project channel. You can also rename these tabs. Just click on them and rename. Now let's take a look at how we can start meetings in a channel. I'm going to go back to posts view. To create an online meeting click on meet. If you meet now, you're going to create that everyone in the You have the ability to You can adjust your background filter. So if you have some you can blur it or select You can also upload I'm just going to take mine away and then select the correct audio. I'll put myself on mute This is going to make the so that everyone can join. And what you can also do, is sent a request to specific people and ask them to join the meeting. Now, there is a lot about meetings and I'll make a separate video about this. But one of the important functions here is the ability to share your screen. So click on this icon and you you can share a specific windows or a PowerPoint presentation. I'll just click it again You also get the ability to and get their feedback. They can raise their hand. You can also see the and you can also record your meetings. So click on more options and The recorded meetings are and they're going to be Once you're done with a and end the meeting. I'm just going to put on my Now, in addition to being you can also schedule a meeting. Just give your meeting a name. You can then add required attendees as well as optional ones. You can also pick your channel. So I created the meeting in but I can also change it from here. Once you've added the click on send. The meeting is going to show in the post but it's also going to of the people in the team. If I click on it now, I'm going to see the link to which is right here. I can update the meeting or I also get to cancel I can also see this So if I go to calendar view, I scheduled this meeting for 6:00 PM, I can see it right here. This is synced to your Exchange account. It's going to have all You can manage them from here Now let's take a look at chat now. Here you can have private one-on-one chats or group chats with specific people. Now this house reduce the amount of emails that are sent around. To search for someone you click on new chat. Just search for their name and add them. You can also add multiple Anything that's related should stay in a team unless Because the last thing you want and multiple teams. Now I'm just going to remove this person and just chat with Chris. Here you have the same messaging If you're typing too much back and forth, you might as well have a Now, any files that are going to be inside Files. So if I go to my chat with Leila, under files I can see any files in the chat. These are saved to your You can see all of these files go to OneDrive, under You can also see the with you directly in OneDrive as well. Now, going back to teams You have the ability to mute chats if you don't want to get notifications. Go to more options and select mute. If you don't want to see the chat at all, you can also hide this chats. To bring back hidden chats, just type the person's name and the chat is going to come back. I'm going to go and unmute this. Read receipts are turned on You're going to get a to show that it was sent. Then when the message was read, it's going to shift to an eye icon. Your IT admin has full and they can turn it on But they can also allow you to control it. Go to your profile pic, under Here you can see read receipts. So if your admin has allowed it, you're going to be able to toggle this off if you'd like to disable it. Now since I'm in settings, let Number one, under general, or high contrast mode. My team prefers dark mode, What about you? Let me know in the comments. Under notifications, you and how you want to get notified. You can also decide on you get for these So for chat meetings and people. Let's say you want to keep and you want to see when Just add them here and whenever they're available. You can turn this off whenever you want. You can see your own availability by taking a look at your profile If you're in a meeting it's going to automatically show as busy. But you have the ability to toggle this. Go back to your status and Now there is a lot that goes on in Teams. How do you keep track Well, you can bookmark or save messages. This is a great time saver for me because I can spend hours I'm going to save a message Remember I made it visible, That's because I have to make it stick. To keep it here, click on more So let's say this is a Go to more options and You can save messages from So if I go back to team and go back to more options Saved messages are available under your profile You can see all of your saved messages. Click on any of these and it's going to take you To un-save a message, click on this icon and it's going to take it Saving messages is good so you can go back to important messages. But how do you keep up with when you were away? This is where the activity Hear in activity, you can see the summary of everything that's going on. If you have a red circle, it means you have a new that you haven't seen. Any activities you missed followed by the latest activities. You can use the more options here, to filter for a specific type of message. You can also filter by specific texts. Now, the search box here It can search for a specific You can also send direct Just start with @, type in This means I don't have and find the person to I can send that message You can also pick from Just start with a backslash To filter for unread To change your status from type in a backslash and dnd. That changes your status In the calls tab, you your history of calls and you can quickly call If your company has a calling plan, you can call any number Now, calling can also be So if you're in a team and you want to call a just hover over their name and either a video call or an audio call. Under Files, you get to see all the files you've recently worked on regardless of whether this You also get to see your own One last thing. If you belong to different organizations with the same email address, you can switch your organizations by clicking on the organization If you're using a different of another organization, you and then sign back in with You don't have to install another Teams no matter if it's education or business. Just sign out and back in This sums up our overview I hope it helps you get Now, I also suggest you get the mobile app because it's much easier to keep track of conversations there. If you learn something don't forget to hit that and consider subscribing if you enjoy the content of this channel. Thank you for watching and (upbeat music)