The competition between Feng Piaopiao and Jack has reached an intense stage. Who among them will have the last laugh? Wei Chu taught really well. Congratulations to Feng Piaopiao for defeating Jack from the Baqi Gate. Feng Piaopiao successfully advanced to the semi-finals. Tai Chi must win and leave the competition. Ten seconds now. It seems that player Xiao Xiao is definitely going to be late. Wu San Wei Chu, we are late. Dear audience friends, I have just been notified that player Xiao Xiao was injured in the last battle and cannot participate in this semi-final after an injury assessment. In the final, the substitute player Wei Chu will play against Wei Chu. The first semi-final match between Tai Chi system Wei Chu and Guiyuan faction Liu Qing is about to begin. The Tai Chi system's winning moves are more flexible and changeable. Unexpectedly, his skills have not deteriorated in the past few years despite his injury. On the contrary, it got stronger. In the second match of the semi-finals, Tai Chi style Feng Piaopiao faced off against Wang Zhaotian from the Baqi sect, the little girl from the Feng family. As far as I know, your relationship with the Tai Chi sect is not very good. Why bother standing up for them here? Go down now and give me the championship. You don't care about me, you don't care about me. Anyway, the first game of the semi-finals has officially begun. Feng Piaopiao is making Tai Chi gestures. Can she beat Wang Zhaotian? Please wait and see with your eyes wide open. Tai Chi Kungfu. But if you go down now, I can still leave you a little Ming Piao Piao, come on, the arena match has officially begun. First, the karate system fights against the Tai Chi system. The Tai Chi system defeats the karate system. Boxing players, please come on. Come on, the Tai Chi system defends successfully. Please prepare for the Judo system. Come on, the Tai Chi system has won three games in a row. Are there any other factions on the stage? If there is no follow-up challenger, who else will defend the challenge? If there is no follow-up challenger, the Tai Chi system will successfully defend the challenge. I will come to the stage as a new challenger. Xiaoxiao, come down quickly. We are competing. Xiaoxiao, the lounge is over there. I will come over. Feng Piaopiao, why are you so so? You're stupid, don't you understand? Why is she so flamboyant? Xiaoxiao, don't hit me. I treat you as my best friend. Stop it. If you treat me as a friend, then admit defeat. I can't admit defeat. I promised Wei Chu. Wei Chu and I have a grudge against the entire Tai Chi sect, and I won't give up. If you don't admit defeat, don't blame me for being rude. So it must be the medicine she gave us that prevented us from entering the ring, and she also learned our kung fu to attack. Senior brother Wei, senior brother Haiyang, come on, senior brother Haiyang, come on, congratulations to Bai Haiyang of the Tai Chi system for defeating the Vajra sect. This is a wonderful showdown. Next, Xiao Xiao of the Tai Chi system will fight against the disciple of the Shui Ling sect. There will be no problem. He will definitely be able to do it. Xiao Xiao The contestants won another victory for the Tai Chi system. Next, Yang Ningxue from the Tai Chi system will fight against the second senior brother of the Guiyuan sect. The Tai Chi system really gave us a big surprise today. Yang Ningxue defeated the second senior brother of the Guiyuan sect. Let us look forward to the next games. Today's game starts with Tai Chi. The Feng Piao Piao vs. Fu Tu faction. Can Afeng Tai Chi create an undefeated myth? Please wait and see. Oh my god, it is incredible to defeat the opponent with one move. Congratulations to the Tai Chi Feng Piao Piao. Congratulations to the Tai Chi Feng Piao Piao for defeating Fu Tu. The sect player Wei Chu taught really well. The Tai Chi sect won four consecutive games. Wang Zhaotian of the Baqi sect faced off against Ah Fu, the strongest master of the Vajra sect. I didn't expect to see such a strong showdown in the preliminary round. Another move to defeat you from all sects. All the masters have been defeated by me. It seems that I am bound to win the championship of this national martial arts competition. Today's game is over. Let's look forward to the next game. Today will be a wonderful match between the Yakimon players like Mars hitting the earth. Jack fights Tai Chi Chen Bing, Chen Bing, come on, this Jack is fast, but he is definitely no match for our Chen Bing. How can this man be like this? Ningxue, don't be impulsive. The Baqimen will win. You can't hit their provocations. They have so many dirty tricks. Chen Bing, yours. Is your hand okay? Sorry, I was careless. It doesn't matter. As long as you're okay, it's okay. Does it hurt? Don't worry about the little things. Let's go. Today is our last game. The Tai Chi system and the Guiyuan faction meet again. Contestant Yang Ningxue versus the last person of the Guiyuan faction. Liu Qing Ningxue, come on , who will win? Let's wait and see. Congratulations to Liu Qing for winning a city for the Guiyuan faction. It's very difficult. If Wei Chu was not here at the last martial arts conference, we would lose at his hands. Today's game is the key to determining the semi-final places. Schedule: Will Guiyuan faction Liu Qing satisfy Tai Chi faction Bai Haiyang? Liu Qing took the initiative to attack. What a pity. Congratulations to Guiyuan faction Liu Qing for winning Haiyang. How are you? Are you okay? I'm fine. Guiyuan faction Liu Qing successfully advanced to the semi-finals. Sure enough, I still lost. I'm sorry that I couldn't fight with you to the end. Next, I'll rely on you. You have to work hard. You've tried your best. The match between Tai Chi captain Feng Piaopiao and Baqimen Jack will begin soon. Baqimen captain Wang Zhaotian has successfully advanced to the semi-finals. There are still two spots left. Can Jack get a spot for the Baqimen? It's hard to say whether he is facing the captain Feng Piaopiao. The competition between Feng Piaopiao and Jack has reached the self-heating stage. Who will have the last laugh? Well, Wei Chu taught really well. Congratulations to Feng Piaopiao for defeating Jack Feng Piaopiao, a contestant from the Baqi Clan. He successfully advanced to the semi-finals of the Tai Chi department. Can this former champion of the Tai Chi Wei family, the leader of the Yin sect, defeat Wang Zhaotian, a contestant from the Baqi Clan? Should we create greater glory or leave the game with regret? I told you that Wei Chu will definitely be fine. Wei Chu can win with one move. How can Wei Chu be so strong at this time? If I just tried hard, you would have already gone down. You want to kill me today? I will destroy you. Tai Chi Kung Fu Jedi counterattack is worthy of being the head guard of the Yin Sect Wei Chu. Congratulations to the Tai Chi Sect for winning the National Martial Arts Conference. According to the points of the five Tai Chi Sect players, Feng Piaopiao will continue to lead the Tai Chi five-man team as an individual champion. Represent China at the World Martial Arts Conference. Represent China at the World Martial Arts Conference. Protect the Fang family so many years, Tan Lin, you are still the same. This is a deposit. I will be there after my uncle helps me to become the leader of the Baqi Sect. A part of the reward will be credited to your account, uncle. Your father is really dead. He died last year and his life was so short. It's great that Xiao Xiao is doing well now. Xiao Xiao was beaten in the school competition seven months ago. Yes, he was injured in school. He is now recuperating at Fang's house and planning to make a comeback. Was it because he was beaten by that boy Wei Chu? Wasn't it because Wei Chu and his grandfather were injured after the battle that year? Now his strength is not as good as before. It's such a pity that there is no chance to fight with him. Master Wei Chu accepted a disciple called Feng Piaopiao, who was the granddaughter of Feng Bingxing, one of Grandpa's enemies. She was also the head of the Wei family who injured Xiao Xiao. It is interesting to teach the skills to the granddaughter of the Feng family. Uncle Master, if you are willing. If you can defeat Feng Piaopiao at the National Martial Arts Conference in five months, our juniors will be delighted. You are quite greedy at a young age. How much price will you have to pay if you want me to fight? Uncle Master, I am willing. I am in Southeast Asia. You can make a lot of money just by boxing. You think I really came here just for money. I helped you get into the position of the leader of the Baqi Clan. I just wanted to think that in the past two years, you are the only one in the family who still remembers me. I just took this money casually. I've been wandering outside for a long time. I really want to go home. I don't care about the position of the leader of the Baqi Sect. But I want to get back the elder position I deserve. How about Master Uncle willing to sit in our Baqi Sect? Of course my nephew is willing. Go back without further ado and let me see what the current Baqi Sect has been ruined by you juniors. Old guy, I haven't seen you for a long time. Fang Zhaotian, how dare you come back? You haven't come back for two years and you haven't become weak or incompetent at all. Now I I have already changed my name to Wang Zhaotian and I have already drawn a clear line with the Fang family. Now I am coming back just so that my nephew can sit as the leader of the sect. The sect master is still in seclusion because of his old injury. The Baqi Clan was in chaos. Fortunately, your father understood the righteousness and assisted Clan Master Xiao to drive him away. Now you invite him back. Are you not destroying your grandfather's hard work? Do you really think Xiao Xiao can lead the Baqi Clan out? Are you reaching the top? You must have all heard that our Baqi Sect has lost face in public. Now everyone is saying that our Baqi Sect is not as good as their Tai Chi Sect. Is this the sect leader you want to follow? Tan Lin Xiao Xiao is Fang Ji's designated successor. Your father obeyed the arrangements back then. It's your turn to stir up trouble here. Tan Lin is Fang Ji's direct eldest grandson. He doesn't pass Tan Lin to Xiao Xiao. What 's the truth? Tan Lin, do you know that you are here? Why are you really changing your surname and completely forgetting that you were once a member of the Fang family? Is there any rule for bringing such a scum to tarnish the Fang family? If you want to be the leader of the sect, you should do something. Xiao Xiao, I will become Baqi soon. The new master of the sect is the master. Uncle is not someone you can slander casually, nor is he someone you can slander casually. Uncle Master fled abroad for more than two years and has developed his skills. Now that he is back, I tell you that even if grandpa is not here today, I can still win against you. What kind of moves are you doing? In the past two years in Southeast Asia, I have integrated the essence of Baqi boxing, Muay Thai boxing, and Malay boxing. If you want to fight me, you are still a little green. Uncle Xiao Xiao has already been kicked out. I think it's better. Forget it, Mrs. Benevolent Master, congratulations to the new sect leader, Xiao sect master, we are late, everyone is willing to obey your instructions, help me gather the old troops who are also sincere, we are short of manpower, you guys, please hurry up and make arrangements. I am hiding in Things here are kept secret. Why are you still dazed? Go to Xiao Clan Master, go quickly. Grandpa, I'm sorry I let you down. But don't worry, I will overcome this difficulty and revive the Baqi Clan. The old man is sleeping well here. Do you have anything to say? Don't disturb my grandpa Qingxiu. A dead man can jump out and beat me. Don't go too far. The injury is not healed yet. You are quite stubborn. Why do you have to fight with me? All your cronies have been eliminated by me. I advise you to give up. I dreamed that this would lead to life-threatening consequences. How could I walk away with peace of mind? Uncle Master, while supervising his disciples to practice, I saw that the boxing techniques of Bajiquan were too simple, so I added some underground boxing techniques to it. You see, Uncle Master, I have it. I don't know if I should say it or not. The National Martial Arts Conference is coming soon. Is it possible that the sudden change of style will be counterproductive? Are you doubting me? How Stop, don't run, stop, stop. Xiao Xiaoxiao, what's wrong with you? Do n't scare me. It's getting serious. I must take back the Baqimen. Xiaoxiao, don't be brave. Your injuries will become more and more serious. Don't worry, I'm in Weichu. We actually found out that Xiao Xiaodu has been missing for more than a month. Where did she go? What's going on? I want to ask you for a favor. What's wrong? You tried to find a way to arrest Wei Chu from two years ago. Did you come to call the police to arrest me? I did come to Xiao Xiao, but not to arrest her but to help her solve her doubts. You took me. What are you doing here? Grandma, look at Feng Piaopiao. She has enough leadership skills and is most suitable to be the captain of our five-person Tai Chi team. If she leads us into the battle, we have a greater chance of winning. Yes, everyone here is convinced by Piaopiao. Feng Piaopiao, it's strange that you came to me alone. Grandma Wei, I came to you to tell you. I came to you to tell you that I came to you this time. This was my idea, not Wei Chu's. You thought you could convince me? I don't know if I can convince you, but I just want to tell you what's in my heart. I'm really not interested in Tai Chi at all. But later on, Wei Chu helped me gradually understand Tai Chi. Wei Chu helped me gradually understand Tai Chi, and I was slow to understand Tai Chi. I'm slowly falling in love with Tai Chi. I want to promote Tai Chi with everyone. I helped Wei Chu play it to help him and to help him. The Martial Arts Conference is what I want to play. And I believe that our team will definitely win. I am also qualified to be this. Captain, I hope Grandma Wei will believe me. I can't believe that a little girl has such a loud voice. Also, I came to you this time to tell you that whether you agree with this game or not, I am determined to be the captain. Since you said it like this, it does n't matter. If you still don't believe me, we can try a few moves to show you how good I am. I would like to see how much you understand Tai Chi. Why don't you take action? The order of elders and younger ones should be modest. I'm not an ordinary old man who recruited me. I know, I know, if Grandma Wei hadn't used only five successes, I wouldn't have dared to make a mistake. If you can understand my moves, you have some ability. There are many people who have helped me along the way. Tai Chi Kung Fu is indeed mature. Tai Chi Push Hands are very powerful. You cannot come from a famous family and you have a strong sense of team. You are more suitable to be the captain than Chen Bing, but even other martial arts may not recognize it. Thank you Grandma Wei for your concern. I will prove it at the conference. Are you qualified to stand there? Are you qualified to be the captain? Are you so confident to be the captain? What do you think we should do for the last place in the five-person battle? What do you think we should do? I will find a way. Grandma, Piaopiao and I will definitely solve this matter. Well, since this is the case, I, an old man, will not ask. You must remember to work hard and have a sisterly love. I have done what I promised you. I hope you will also remember the promise you made to my little girl. You are so easy to deceive. You are worthy of being so easy. As a real granddaughter, you have inherited his stupidity. You can't even tell the truth from a lie. It's still too late to regret it. It's not necessarily who regrets it. If you don't believe it, take a look for yourself. Did n't you expect that this drama attracted the big mouse Xiao Xiao ? Thinking that you really dare to bluff me, why don't you dare? No one here is afraid of you. If it weren't for Piao Piao and Wei Chu, I would really believe you. This is what the medicine pack Wang Zhaotian gave me will do. I don't know. I will send someone to find out. In case this medicine gets caught one day, the medicine package you gave me is exactly the same as the one that poisoned my grandpa back then. In fact, it was you who killed my grandpa. It turns out that the loophole is here. Do n't make the same mistake again next time. What else do you want? Next time, the medicine pack is in my hand. Now that you all know it, come on. I don't want to bully the more. Let's meet in the ring. What are you doing? You want to let him go. But Brother Wei, let's settle it today. Then we will see you in the ring. You have basically completely mastered the moves of Wei Style Tai Chi. However, in Tai Chi, you should focus on the meaning rather than the moves. You are still stuck to the current moves and have not fully understood the essence of Tai Chi. You will not be able to win against Wang Zhaotian. The essence of Tai Chi is Tai Chi. The emphasis is on the word &quot;empty&quot;, the body is hollow and the heart is hollow. You will naturally understand the essence of it. Grandpa, why are you here? My good granddaughter is going to the martial arts competition. Can I sit at home and sleep in peace? Head Wei, my understanding of Tai Chi is correct. Let the younger generation learn something. What you taught my good granddaughter must be good things. Piao Piao, feel the artistic conception of Kong. You will have new discoveries. Stop and run. Wherever you go, you are not allowed to bully our school classmates. We have Wei Chu, who is very good in the Tai Chi department. Thank you. Piaopiao. What's wrong? You're nervous. The fight hasn't even started yet. You're so scared. I've never seen such a big scene. I'm so nervous. You can't do it. Piaopiao, you need to be more majestic. Today you are the protagonist, right? Don't worry about us all. Well, Piao Piao, you have to work hard. I'll give you this. I went to the temple to ask for it. They said it's very effective. This is my lucky card. I'll give it to you. I have a watch here and I won't mess it up. Wei Chu, why do n't you express your gratitude to me? I will share my energy with you. Wei Chu, Wei Chu, I have convinced you. We should start preparing for today's game. First, Feng Piaopiao of the Tai Chi system versus Futu sect A Feng. Can the Tai Chi system create the undefeated myth? Please everyone. Let's wait and see. God defeated the enemy with one move. The master is incredible. Congratulations to Tai Chi Feng Piao Piao. He taught really well in defeating Fu Tu Sect player Wei Chu. Tai Chi won four consecutive games in the Baqi Sect. Wang Zhaotian faced off against Ah Fu, the strongest master of the Vajra Sect. Unexpectedly, in In the preliminary round, we can see such a strong showdown and defeat the enemy with one move. You masters from various martial arts have all been defeated by me. It seems that I am bound to win the championship of the National Martial Arts Conference. Today's competition is over. Let's look forward to it. In a competition, the match between Tai Chi captain Feng Piaopiao and Baqimen Jack will begin soon. Baqimen captain Wang Zhaotian has successfully advanced to the semi-finals. There are still two places left. Can Jack win a place for Baqimen? It's hard to say whether it's captain Feng Piaopiao. The competition between Feng Piaopiao and Jack has reached the self-heating stage. Who among them will have the last laugh? Wei Chu's teaching is really good. Congratulations to Feng Piaopiao for defeating Jack Feng Piaopiao, a player from the Baqi Gate. Smoothly advance to the semi-finals. The Tai Chi department must win. Can the former champion of the Yin sect Tai Chi Wei family defeat Wang Zhaotian of the Baqi sect? Will Wang Zhaotian achieve greater glory or leave the game with regret? I tell you, Wei Chu will definitely be fine. Isn't Wei Chu able to win with one move? How can Wei Chu be so strong at this time? If I had just used my strength, you would have gone down. You want to die. I will destroy you today with your Tai Chi Kung Fu Jedi counterattack. You are worthy of being the leader of the Yin Sect Wei Clan. Wei Chu congratulates Tai Chi. Pai won the championship of the National Martial Arts Conference. According to the points of the five Tai Chi players, Feng Piaopiao will continue to lead the Tai Chi five-man team as an individual champion to represent China in the World Martial Arts Conference. Surprisingly, Feng Piaopiao and Xiao Xiao are not traditional Tai Chi. The descendant of the Tai Chi sect has broken the family line. Wang Zhaotian, I am now arresting you in accordance with the law for a series of crimes including illegal detention, attempted kidnapping, etc., and taking you away for discussion. You betrayed me. This is what you deserve. You will be imprisoned. Remember to reform well. Master, please let me go. Let me go. You are the protagonist today. Perform Tai Chi well and go to the world. This is the pride of CMFU and the pride of traditional Chinese martial arts. Does the winning captain Feng Piaopiao have any remarks? Let me say a few words. As the captain, I walked all the way to watch. These friends behind me, we have gone through so many ups and downs. I won't cry today because I have been here for so long. One thing you have taught me is to be strong. Thank you for always standing behind me, helping me, accompanying me, and being here. In addition to my grandfather, I want to thank someone. I want to thank him. Thank him for teaching me how to love, love others, be loved, and accept love. He told me that if I work hard, there will be results. Finally, I want to say that I want to carry forward Tai Chi to the world. Everyone in the world has seen CMFU