I don't know what you're waiting for you've out right now just like Pastor Steven said we're of our mouths so go to do the new you.com It's amazing. I just wanted to give you a chance, to celebrate him. It's amazing. Tell your through and the wrong things I've done, Tell them, &quot;But I am.&quot; I am what I am by the grace of God. I know that much. It's amazing! [Worship] Let's lift up a praise like amazed God? Glory to God. Absolutely amazing. to shepherd you and to serve you My job is to put God's Word in your heart in if it needs a sermon, if it needs a book. I won't even wrap it. I'll just give it love those out-of-the-box words from I've got one today. Oh, I'm excited about Be in prayer for us. We're due to be in Hershey, maybe a little less than that. We're going to be United States. We're going to be in Hershey, Illinois; Columbus, Ohio; Grand Rapids, Philly, and Long Island. Now listen. You can stream the last night. This is the first if you can't get there... If you can get there, go you need to do to get there. Many of the nights can, so go there and see if there's availability. information at elevationnights.com When you do, you will get the audiobook of Do I'm excited. Those of you we'll be seeing in the and pray. God is going to move and break chains and he's going to save people and heal people family to pray for us and lift us up before the It takes a whole army to go out there and do it. backs? All right then. Well, I'm good. If you've single one of you who has supported the new book shared about it, if you left a positive review, We're taking our time over the next few a journey to be more like Jesus, a journey of following Jesus cannot be done alone. That's I want to pray one more time before we take guide. I also want to encourage you that or at a campus, has an opportunity to The E stands for empowerment. I bet you didn't Nope. It stands for empowerment, because having the empowerment to live them out will putting some very wonderful people in front their homes, their Capri-Suns, and their Fudge So please click on the link. Stop by at the the right y'all. Do you know that? The Bible you (singular). You have to This year, I'm looking for some people hearing what I'm hearing and who let's follow Jesus together. Are you ready for the &quot;I'm not stuck unless I stop.&quot; Now high-five Bring the screen. Let's teach. Let's preach. words on that screen. First, I want to read Congratulations to Graham Furtick, Elijah Furtick who released my most personal this week. We put it out together. but I checked and mine is the highest viewed Congratulations to Abbey who's taking pictures on up this morning, I asked her, &quot;How many smiles they have to get pictures of me smiling, and she &quot;Ten.&quot; So we'll try to get there. She said, &quot;I Matthew 20:29-34. You know what? &quot;Can you put the whole Bible on the screen for did that for me. Y'all give it up for Brody. way down to verse 29. &quot;As Jesus and his disciples Two blind men were sitting by the roadside, they shouted, 'Lord, Son of The crowd rebuked them and told them to be I like these guys. The crowd told them to &quot;Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!&quot; have mercy on us!&quot; Now, if you don't need mercy, your life because you're not always perfect, shout &quot;Jesus stopped and called them. 'What 'Lord,' they answered, 'we want our and touched their eyes. Immediately they Say it again. &quot;I'm not stuck unless as we study this today, where it says they want to draw your attention to something. If these men have experienced an amazing change. How many believe God can still change your life at any stage? It can come from a direction that time when you had convinced yourself it was over. some of his best stuff. I had a friend in high when somebody got stuck so he could show off He lives for the moments when somebody The stuck word is kind of a nice word to use to lot of other words as well...depression situations and circumstances that seem never seem to change, though everyone else seem unbreakable and patterns of thought that That's what we're challenging in this series I don't just want to be your life coach; I be your Holy Ghost life coach for a few minutes which is really what we're talking Discipleship is always about redefinition, these two men had a physical problem. only limited to the physical realm. The not because they couldn't use their eyes but even as he did it. They would fight over Even as he was moving toward the they were arguing about status and who gets the disciples were blind. The men were blind. The the roadside, probably begging, because the Passover was an annual feast for the was different because Jesus was going in the Passover but to be the Lamb. He wasn't he was coming to redefine history as we knew it. It's a significant moment in Jesus' life, yet for although Jesus is fully God and able much time left to walk the earth as a man. just a little bit over a week away from rising headed to Jerusalem to face the cheers of the spread their palm branches on the road, saying, Yet days later, many of the same crowds &quot;Crucify him!&quot; Don't ever commit your view wonderful. If they don't like you and God still and somewhere to live in his presence. I Jesus never committed his identity to the I wish I was preaching just to the youth right and I would tell you that you are becoming your Christ. Your Christ can help you stand out right way even if the whole crowd goes the because I want to talk about Notice it says two things happened have mercy on me.&quot; When they shouted, he called he touched them, he healed them. When he the best part of the text. In verse 34 it said, Now all the way back to the beginning chapter heading right here? That is the part that is the Word of God that was This is something somebody put in a study but the Bible isn't like Netflix with chapter The Bible is just written. There are no chapter subject headings. So, what was written here I want about for a moment. The reason I wanted it to be I have a question. It says &quot;Two Blind Men Receive why are they still called that? it stands to reason that they are no that we re-title this passage. Don't change the Maybe, instead of calling this chapter they're no longer blind, but people will that for the rest of your natural days. I would would suggest that he is the Alpha and Omega. I'm smiling, Abbey. Do you see me smiling? I'm me. I'm smiling because I know it doesn't because I know he did some things for me. that saved a wretch like me. I once I was blind, but I'm not now. Now I see. How Receive Sight...&quot; Watch this. I think we need to Devil? I'm not going to call them what their call them what their past had them trapped in. up to that point before they met the Savior How about we call this passage &quot;Two Bold it. You don't have to like it. God did it his what he wants to do. The whole crowd was That's ridiculous. Would you stop that?&quot; Look at I did it with whatever voice that was. &quot;Stop I circled the phrase told them. The whole crowd you're blind?&quot; No. &quot;He's making jokes.&quot; I'm just their boldness. Now, I just want to speculate boldness. The Bible says we walk by faith, the crowd was around Jesus they wouldn't have condition. For all of you who think we shouldn't When Jesus asked the men, &quot;What do you want?&quot; or carbon footprint or world hunger. and Jesus did not turn them away as selfish, but he enabled them to experience what their There are some of you here, and there is a Don't even bother. Don't even worry about it.&quot; The Some of the crowds that tell us to keep it down of fear you've accumulated in your life. I mean, the trauma of what you went through became your Here's the problem I have when people say, it means I'm lost. If I'm lost, I need life that the only way I'm going to find one who really knows what my life is supposed or the Bible calls the gardener, who Let's talk for a moment about this I don't know what your insecurities are what your regrets are trying to it's this constant voice that says, &quot;You wasted it. It's gone, and you can't now. stronger than you, and you can't go back now. and now you have to keep doing it.&quot; It &quot;Stop it.&quot; Even being at church While you want to hear God's voice, &quot;You really need to stop going to church. It's serving God? Why do you keep trying to be a the nice guys finish last anyway? Why are that all of your friends who have no sexual morals even trying to reclaim this part of your life Why are you even going back to rehab right stop. Just give up on yourself. Everybody the crowd on the inside is louder than There is no noise cancellation for the is no numbing of the things you say So, I know that while the voice calling you forward into some things, calling calling you above some things so that the there where they belong and you can walk another voice telling you, &quot;Just stop.&quot; But If you get to heaven and want to meet these two the right name, because if you ask for the blind meet you and sign your book. So say, &quot;I want to I want to meet those bold brothers who decided, the new. I'm going forward!'&quot; They shouted, and have mercy on us!&quot; I love that they shouted. What is amazing about their shout is it indicates you in this season of your life. Don't ever what you do. Remember, saints. They couldn't only did they shout, but watch this. When Jesus to step. It's harder, but you can still do it. I The issue is not that you're stuck; the issue God is done with you. Not by a long shot. The have (your sight) to keep you from using what you have to shout and stumble and shout and stumble Even if I have to proclaim I am the righteousness the righteousness of God and stumble in sin because Jesus died for me, and stumble in but know that every day he's transforming me... Even if I have to stumble, a stumble is and a shout is still a shout, even if I shout closed my eyes. I couldn't see, but I could where there are some things I can't see clearly. I don't know how God is going to how he's going to help me pay it off. I from it. I really don't know who's but the fact that I can't see it will not stop Come on. Tell somebody, &quot;You're not stopped. You stopped being optimistic, stopped believing you could rise above had. You stopped believing it could really be I'm not trying to be ignorant about the challenges of view than the one you've been living with. I need you to know something. There is nothing what he intends to do through your life. Do something God spoke to them just because they &quot;I would have started a church...&quot; He's 70. but I didn't know how to do children's ministry.&quot; It would surprise you what stops people. He was He was anointed to lead, yet he couldn't see were gifted to do, children's ministry, he key premise of my message and the mindset It's very simple, but I feel like I Congregation: Keep going! Congregation: Keep going! Steven: Well, maybe that's get to today. You're telling me, Through the valley, through the storm, I will it's more than a sound. Praise is the waters my Pharaoh is. I'm not dying in this Red Sea; sin is, shame is, disgrace is. to shout! How about now? Now would don't shout now. Save it for a football game. No, No, don't shout now. Save it for March Madness. not like he made way after way. It's not like like he opened door after door. What are you like those two bold men. I'm shouting before I something in my Bible. I brought this Bible I want to show it to you right now. I've been about what God did. I'm excited about who he did paying attention to. He did it for the ones who to do it for the one here today who's hurting today who is confused. He's going to do it for He's going to do it for the one today who doesn't one today who wasted some of the good seasons. who's weak in their body. He's going to do it for truck, and he likes to show you what he can pull Bible says Jesus did it for the blind men, and he He touched them, and when he touched them, he have to shout when he's close to you. So, if you right now, if you can't see him right now, maybe touch. All of a sudden, what the crowd told them When God touches you, no matter what fear you... When God touches you and says, &quot;I don't they've called you. I don't care how they said it's a learning disability...&quot; No. God will raise up something that is It's amazing grace. He did it and he did it for people who couldn't do it for was reading this passage over and over again, he called them. When he found them, they them sitting in Jericho; he wanted to get God doesn't always make it easy for you. This is Sometimes in his compassion he'll tell you, &quot;Come.&quot; It does not say Jesus went to is absolutely amazing. I want y'all to love a blue one, a yellow one, a pink one, I want you to sniff that raspberry the righteousness of God in the Word of raspberry highlighter and start circling better word over your family. Everybody shout, &quot;Lord!&quot; Now be the crowd. Say, &quot;Stop.&quot; Oh, by the way, I want to show you something. them to be quiet, they shouted all the &quot;Stop!&quot; on this side. Now say, &quot;Lord!&quot; Now watch this. The crowd says, &quot;Stop.&quot; &quot;Stop.&quot; Past says, &quot;Stop.&quot; Addiction &quot;Stop.&quot; Anxiety says, &quot;Stop.&quot; Because they tech team. I've got to show this to my eFam. up their mind. &quot;I'm not going to stop following I'm not going to stop seeking him. I'm not stop using my gift. I'm not going to stop using life. I'm not going to stop praising him. I'm not I'm not going to stop.&quot; Because they didn't stop, just shouted louder. I love them. Not only did Not only did they get healed; they followed All of this started with a shout. I'm not going I seem to remember something in the Bible something... Can we find it in the Bible? Come on. shout right now. Shout louder! Everybody make you a disciple and purge you right and bring his Spirit to break This is not the first shout in Jericho. The Jericho were securely barred...&quot; You remember people to take over after 40 years of stuck in the after 40 years of saying, &quot;Those giants are bigger wasted away and waged not a war against their now Jericho was securely barred up. Talk about How many feel like this? &quot;I'm at the edge the edge of joy, but I can't keep it. I'm at up. I get a little bit, and I spend more. I get and I don't understand why.&quot; &quot;Now Jericho was Remember, the Enemy is intimidated by you, &quot;No one went out and no one came in.&quot; They are they didn't. The Bible says in verse 2, &quot;Then Jericho into your hands, along with its king once...'&quot; &quot;Oh, cool. Okay. I can do that. Yeah, to give me the victory if I just march around the &quot;I'm going to absolutely do it. I'm going to app on my phone as well, and a Bible plan. I've Message Bible. I really like The Message once. &quot;March around the city once&quot; is what &quot;March around once with all the armed men. Do trumpets of rams' horns in front of the ark. because you're about to shout again. &quot;Don't get nervous. I'm about to shout again.&quot; Just tell them, &quot;Hey, you're going to hear me because I'm shouting about something about something I can't feel. I'm shouting backing for right now. Yeah, I'm shouting &quot;Have them march around seven times, with every day they marched and nothing happened took comes back in the form of love toward your life desire doesn't leave you but you commit to get So you're waiting for the walls to fall. You're for it to get easier. You're waiting for for the right key to break it and unlock it of &quot;stuck,&quot; and on the seventh day... I preached I preached that message when I was going through saying I was a liar and a hypocrite and that I my book that I never did and that we were Don't Stop On Six, and I walked around the so I'm not going to do that part anymore, I got down on my face, and I talked about the laps where you have to fake it. I talked about the work and cry and go, &quot;I can't even get through is just hieroglyphics to me right now, and the I preached, and I said, &quot;Don't stop on never know...this might be the one. This might be the day. This might be This might be the moment, and you might be your last name who is yet to be born. So around the city seven times... Everybody shout, high-five seven people and What did you say? Keep going. Keep going. Keep I did it. Yeah, I struggle with it, but new name! I'm not a blind man; I'm a bold Watch this. Verse 5 is my verse. Somebody and Jesus stopped in the middle of the the world. He's calling you right now. He God stopped a relationship you were addicted to For some of you, God stopped a job you your skill in humility to go to the next level God does. I silence accusation. I silence I silence what your Instagram feed says. Now that the crowd has to be quiet and the Christ I didn't realize when I read about the blind an echo. It was the echo in Jericho. If you know in Joshua 6:5... Now we're ready. The Bible on the trumpets, have the whole army give You mean I preached an hour in this heavy Are you kidding me? You mean I wrote a whole and you still...? Eighteen years and we still a wall to a way maker? What's a chain to a &quot;When you hear them sound a long blast on the Watch this! No, no, no. Stop. Stop. If you you might get an answer. If you shout, you get Christ conscious. Don't shout now! then the wall will collapse...&quot; Watch Shout... What are you shouting but he spoke it and it's got to come down! It's I praise when outnumbered, 'Cause praise is the waters my enemies drown in. I praise 'cause I know you're still in control. I praise 'cause you're faithful, I praise 'cause there's nobody greater than you. My praise is the shout that brings Jericho down! hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus