The year is 1982, and we find ourselves in the a crucial round in the rally season. After the two title contenders would start as incredibly, they have posted the same time! one of them is a woman. And not only is she fighting to stifle her utter despair due to starting the race. Will she be able to triumph? came and showed the men how it's done- this a person that many would consider, Hi guys, TheRUB here. Before we start, I'd like to the incredible achievement of this channel very much. Michele Mouton is one of my favorite incredible, and she was definitely vital in I decided to dedicate my 100k subscriber special quality of the video is as good as it can be, the Jackoh- don't forget to visit his channel. But to the beautiful landscapes of southern France. the young Michele, born in 1951 in Grasse, in the driving at the age of 14, as she would regularly the interest in racing would not start here. became friends. While attending a rock and roll her, and he invited her to become his co-driver at the first-ever World Rally Championship. He would France. While the results were not at all anything with Taibi, Mouton had begun to understand, and Michele's father was actually very enthusiastic as he himself longed to become a racer. However, cocky. So, he proposed a different deal to his and I'd prefer to see you doing that than provide funding for you to do one year with proper do well you can continue. If not, you must give kept his word. Michele was presented with a brand rather undeniably one of the greatest rally cars and the car to do well- now it was up to her. Michele loved the challenge! of what is the best way to show your talents to you may think of, but winning in your class at a the end of 1974, Mouton was crowned the French these achievements, the bet was won, her father their heads, so Michele's racing career was to title, even adding to it with the European ladies' very clear- she wasn't going to find much more She had her eyes on bigger fish- the men. Her "When you are in the car, nobody can say if it's WRC round in France, she surprised everyone in overall, and 1st in class, more or less 20 minutes In fact, her success here was such an upset that engine" mounted in her car. However, after passing her opponents had to come to terms with the advanced about her car at all- Michele And it wasn't just rallying Mouton was she also tried her hand at circuit racing, of a completely female team. The result? Yet piloting the 2.0L Moynet LM75 prototype. About "It started to rain and I started to pass they were saying 'Michele, you must stop', but I However, the driver from Grasse seemed to get routes and surfaces found on rally stages, in any more circuit races. 1976 would with also an 11th at Monte Carlo, however, it was though, would be a great season for her. and she would tackle the European piloting a Porsche 911 Carrera RS. It was in first overall win, at the 1977 Rallye de Espana, she would place 2nd overall in the championship but ahead of rising star Ari Vatanen. Michele Initially, she would describe the new 131 Abarth steering and the engine being at the front, very important for her to understand how to drive results in the new machine- she took first at the French championship, and an impressive 4th in the competitors that Mouton could really drive. It results that her career would see the introduction team offered a place for seven events in the Hannu Mikkola. Audi's decision to nominate her great deal of publicity for the Ingolstadt team. decisions that intrigued the rally world of the bet on the superiority of 4WD technology being that most other teams doubted it would work at them wrong. Very wrong. From here on out, the Quattro basically became the frontrunner for would recollect her first tests with the Quattro was obviously interesting and revolutionary, but possibility of challenging for the WRC title. some early testing in the snow when on standard on studded tires." In 1981, Audi contested more "learning year", as both the car and the entire the team's first win arrived very quickly at the Mikkola. As for Michele? Well, the season did not the Queen of Speed to stop even before beginning her on the back foot. Mouton's next round, begin her long partnership with Italian co-driver but after suffering some electrical problems, rounds, while the French driver was showcasing a and reliability in her car would mean that However, the day when Mouton would truly carve her the date is the 10th of October 1981, the last day rather disappointing 13th, the multi-surface and very quickly she started to recover. with technical problems, and with her Mouton had become the last hope for Audi. And who was enjoying a comfortable lead in his and so the French driver was able to swoop in in rallying, you can't count your chickens until service point among clouds of smoke and sparks, time to repair the damage than she had available, had been able to build up; her advantage was who was snapping at her heels in second, observed racing". It was clear that the Finn was ready to and even worse, the surface had returned to the With the pressure mounting, Michele found that she the hotel. Upon getting back into the car the next "Ok, we forget everything and we are back at the us will crash". Just as she predicted, not long rock and was out of the race. Now really nothing score her breakthrough WRC victory in Sanremo, drivers. This was enough proof that she really full-season seat was confirmed by Audi for 1982. Audi had created a car that could win easily that pesky little thing called unreliability. But, fixing this problem in time for the next season, While many people of the time doubted and her teammate Hannu Mikkola would end up Flying Finn spent many hours with Michele during car and giving her a lot of suggestions to push provide the single biggest rivalry to a driver Audi Team was rather different, with Mouton and for both the team and each other's benefits. and his promise? of course he did not retire and took me and everybody else by surprise. And so came the start of the 1982 season- a dominance- Audi had the fastest car on had put forward a very reliable contender, Michele possibly have a chance for taking the Like the running in the year before, the opening into the rally, her Quattro would lose grip around black ice. Whatever it was, the Audi would come to Pons, was unharmed, but Michele was forced to Plus, Walter Rohrl, that will be claimed victory over Hannu Mikkola. foothills of Sweden, which, this year, was almost the 4WD Audi to let rip. And the Bavarian team the top 3 places early on, being Mikkola, Swedish not a bad start for someone who had just recovered to turn around, disaster yet again struck the Mikkola slid into a snow bank, and his Quattro street. While spectators were furiously attempting Blomqvist hurtled through, barely missing only postponed, as Mouton quickly arrived on the to avoid Mikkola's car. No one was hurt thankfully, podium position. Audi themselves were not quite first victory of the year. Rohrl would settle for The third round brought the competition to leg to be on tarmac, with the rest on dirt. Mouton would be her opportunity to fight her way back By the end of the first leg she was in Asconas of Henri Toivonen and Walter Rohrl- pedal to the metal when the race reached the Mikkola would roll his Audi on the first special would fall away from the lead one after the other. victory, a whole 13 minutes ahead of Per Eklund's the 3rd-place Audi of Franz Wittmann. With Rohrl Opel, Michele was able to climb her way back up standings, just 4 points behind her German rival. where reliability is the key to winning, Audi considered too fragile and unreliable for the second, his advantage over Michele increased. was the all-tarmac Tour de Corse, and it was disaster for the Audi squad. A mechanic crashed so the Finn driver started the event in a 7km! The event continued very disappointingly, herself 7th place, as the Quattro was simply too And so, both Audi and Mouton knew that Round be crucial to maintain competitiveness in the considered by many to be the "European Safari"- different terrains, most intimidating of all claimed its fair share of racers each year. As early as halfway through the first leg, into a very advantaged position- plus, with rivals Mouton would practically coast along in 1st winning almost half of the special stages, and advantage, this time over her German Mouton had yet again saved the day for Audi- hers was the only one to see the finish! Even position of Audi's first driver. In fact, Mikkola, was completely out of contention for the title. was currently leading the pack, 20 points ahead the media continuously were writing that he could replied caustically, stating, "You could put a is hard to deny the superiority of the Quattro among others, her Audi teammate, Hannu was by no means a slacker himself, as he this declaration caused a significant as "la femme qui derange", which translates to the Audi then made its first-ever trip to the was a complete waste of money and time, as the Mouton herself seemed to be near to her 3rd position, but her engine blew after an oil Rohrl managed to wrangle 3rd, but Michele was The eighth round of the season, on the was likely the most engaging round of the The two contenders would finish first and second 3! The two strategies differed heavily- Rohrl pace with the Quattro in his RWD Opel. Michele, avoid putting too much pressure on her fragile Heavy rain welcomed the drivers in the first leg- sunnier second leg, with the two title contenders second leg, the Opel driver was leading and was but by the 4th leg the "femme qui derange" forced to hand the lead back over. But without The French driver did not let up, with the German rival. However, when Rohrl he fell a considerable amount away from the lead- of the closely contested battle, was a whopping In the next two rounds of Finland and San Remo, only podium either of the two front-runners were by the skin of his teeth. By contrast, these two with them taking 1st and 2nd at both. was therefore going to be a very crucial round for taking place in 1982, it was operating under an results. If Mouton were to win here, she would Britain, to achieve her incredible feat. Rohrl's The Ivory Coast round was long, rough and the more well-known Safari Rally, but by no means route in the jungle. Audi, who had initially not Safari Rally, had a change of heart and prepared as best they can. Stig Blomqvist was called up while Mikkola was in a Quattro that was basically Gumpert in the co-driver. He may not have been Everything had been put in place for this massive the event, Michele received a phone call that her number-one fan, the person who pushed her to was an unexpected blow. Michele was naturally drop the competition and return to France. The Fabrizia and Gumpert supported her decision. that her father would have her want to race, that her father would be a fitting goodbye for her. had happened, because she did not feel strong points during the rally, she was in tears. managed to build a 25-minute lead early on, later minutes. At this point, as a precaution, the team not go well- the clutch was now not working, and this gearbox fiasco cost an hour and a half, which second place, Rohrl, shrank to a mere 25 minutes, contest with. And the problems didn't end there, simply did not want to turn on, and Michele lost script, the two title contenders were now entering the 46th timed stretch, which contained a very and Rohrl went off the road here, though came was not so lucky- after coming off the road at damaging pretty much everything including even if not in great condition. Mouton would now between her and Rohrl, but with it now being which had flown out of the car during the With the Quattro even more damaged than before, driving for Toyota, arrived on the scene. He and on the road, refusing to restart without seeing driver, would also arrive and help too. Michele but it was clear that the car had experienced a in the towel. Unfortunately for her, this would and Walter Rohrl would claim the title of 1982 told Dirtfish "Really, it was nothing to be world the future to have had a woman be world champion". on losing the title, considering the terrible Guarnier's opinion, her boyfriend at the contribution to the end of Mouton's driving to think about relationships and having a family. at the final round in Great Britain behind in second place- Audi, on the other hand, was the first German brand to achieve this. we covered the 1983 season of the World Rally reigning champions, Audi, and returning story of David vs Goliath, we won't dwell on 1983, for Mouton at least, was not a successful of Mouton this year, was luck. She made two and then in almost every other rally, she Emblematic of this theme was her DNF in New go while she was in 1st, and very close to the she finished 5th in the driver's standings. Rohrl, to their already formidable lineup, Blomqvist, Rohrl and Mouton, but not all rallies in particular, only signed a 5-event contract, for the last time in her career, with by no means, did this mean that Mouton's bank of In 1985, she wanted to cut back on and so signed on to a contract for testing and the Sport Quattro S1 and the legendary S1 E2 in however, was plagued by reliability issues from only drive in the WRC that year, at the Ivory team was accused of "car swapping", and team retire her car when she was in 4th position! Audi needed Mouton's help to win Pike's Peak, an Mountain Range of the USA. They saw a win at the German brand in North America. In the previous though did take victory in their class, not to event. But in 1985, Audi and Mouton wanted overall another problem would plague her efforts- before the start. Recently Michele told exceeded the speed limit by 5mph when making be allowed to sit in the car at the start, and I could leave the line. I pointed out that it I didn't do up my belts properly, so they backed mechanics had to push me to the line and I wasn't started. To be honest, all they succeeded And despite the slippery conditions caused by a but she also destroyed the previous record by an by the Unser family for three generations, and when it was broken, Bobby Unser, the former with "If you have the balls you can try to Michele was the first non-American driver Hill Climb. Furthermore, she remains the only 1986 then arrived with some very surprising piloting their 205 T16, breaking her successful saw her compete in her 2 WRC "home events", Championship. The WRC campaign started badly, and would see an even worse conclusion at the Tour Sergio Cresto's deaths in their Lancia Delta S4. arrived, this time due to a gearbox problem, while all know, the FIA would respond to this accident who was 35 years old at the time, decided that perfect moment to retire from her driving career the German Rally Championship. Here, Michele Vulcan", which translates to the even colder her by the press due to her furious temperament a majority of German drivers, clearly had no of the 8 events, the other 2 being retirements. the German title in 1986, it was a very nice Mouton would become a mother in 1987, curiously Fabrizia Pons, but nonetheless, Mouton sport that forged her iconic identity. One year in memory of her friend Henri Toivonen. The contest between some of the world's very best recommended experience. She would also enter only as part of the Peugeot support team- other other notable competitions - the two most notable Trophee Andros, and she would even take second, 2000 London-Sydney marathon behind the wheel of showing in the sport, acting as the FIA manager overseeing the world she once took by storm, a It would be amazing to see a woman and perhaps with the help of other new not be a concept that is too far in the future. a mighty source of inspiration for this movement to this day, the most successful female colleagues and rivals multiple times over, and much more recognition in the world of sports. in sporting realms largely dominated by over the doubters, over all the distractions,