In addition to this wounded man, several more orcs were lying there. I went to ask him how he was doing, he said: &quot;Shaking, brother.&quot; This one is lying and thinks: &quot;Why did I come here?&quot; And the Good Day helmet flew, Glory to Ukraine, Battalion K-2. We continue our series of releases so that the community can see how we worked. This operation, I emphasize, was last year. We supported this assault, the task of our unit was to make a passage for our assault infantry, knock out of the enemy from the beginning of the forest strip, from the front trenches, to clear the way so that our stormtroopers could gain a foothold. And then we cleared the passage for them, minus the personnel of the enemy who tried to go on a counterattack or let down their reserves. The result was, the guys did a good job. To understand, in the first that day, about 700 meters of the trench were captured. The next day, probably another 800 meters, the enemy was pushed back. And in general, for the entire operation, it took about 5-7 days, I don't remember exactly. They freed up to 3 kilometers. Many thanks to the guys who took part in this, the assault The units were tigers They had eggs the size of the Donetsk region. The Cossacks did a very good job, it was a very difficult battle. Because the trench was about 2 kilometers long, with no possibility of maneuvering from the flanks, because there was a clear field it worked out, the losses were minimized as much as possible. And the enemy was repulsed. Thank you very much, Glory to Ukraine, all the best! Have I launched yet? Everything, let's start. Then they got used to it and one came out to shoot at me while I was catching the other. Now the helmet will fly, it flew higher than my drone. Here, it seems, the wounded man will lie under the tree. And he was carried by four Russian occupiers who are hiding under the tree now. &quot;Well carry it, it's an extra load&quot;, thought the occupiers. And our guys had already started moving along the forest strip. And they couldn't understand how the drone was flying so fast, we were about 2 kilometers from them. We even managed to use one battery for 2 grenades. We could have fun here. It was a good time for me. were given a specific area for work Our infantry did not move without a separate command from the higher command Therefore I could work without hindrance And do not forget to subscribe to our channel, we have TOP videos They are already taking his things The occupier thinks: &quot;I will run away, let others be killed, but not me They ran away, leaving the wounded behind. Besides this wounded man, several others were lying. He went to find out how things were going. This one is lying and thinking: &quot;Grandfather, why did I come here...&quot; And it's like their commander, I wounded him, they evacuated him. It would be it's cool to throw them into these TMs, it would have exploded. And these are the two invaders who were launching the DJI Mavic reconnaissance drone. They didn't fly for a long time, we still tried to chase their drones with an FPV drone, we tried to shoot down the Mavic. But it didn't work, he ran away. something else They didn't inflict heavy damage, but they let it be known that we could see them There was a very problematic point where the machine gun was standing And they completely &quot;mowed&quot; the forest strip A decision was made to fly out Destroy them, in one word This one is already collecting trophies with his brothers &quot;Come on here, you don't need it anyway&quot; I didn't realize that it was starting to smoke Another &quot;friend&quot; was there, he decided to look for trophies on his brothers He goes to the &quot;brotherhood&quot; and will tell you how to fight Friends, you must understand that not every sortie was accurate. That's the kind of work. I made a sortie, threw it, thought about how it should land. Yeah, it's not like that, it should be a little earlier, I took off a second time, threw it a little earlier , hit it it will be, it's guaranteed. They decided to hang bandanas like in Los Angeles, gangsters wear them on their belts