"I keep coming back to this singular, inescapable Given the odds, those three words are more He had a lot of friends, but he was incredibly He hid childhood traumas and self-doubt behind He did not want to be remembered only as Chandler who had lost their way in life. Today on the Biographer channel we will tell a tragic fate, whose life was cut short so What made fourteen-year-old Matthew start What did he pray for three weeks before starting What connects Perry and his famous character Which woman did Perry regret breaking up with We will talk about this, as well as about thing in today's video. It will be both fun and sad, but you will Sit back, and we'll start. An unhappy childhood? Matthew Langford Perry was born on August peh * ree] and Suzanne Marie Langford. Perry's parents met in 1967 at the annual pageant in Ontario. Suzanne was the guest of honor there, because And John performed as part of the musical this event. Two young and attractive people that evening their acquaintance later turned into passionate The couple moved to Perry's hometown, Williamstown, a son. The baby was very restless, he was very worried crying of the baby, the exhausted parents He prescribed a powerful sedative to a one-month-old Few people thought about the side effects child's psyche, then. This medicine coped with the scream on all The child just fell asleep with a funny expression and young parents could at least rest for Perhaps it was these strong sedatives that and, as a result, Perry's eternal struggle In addition, these medications greatly affected However, the family life of John and Suzanne decided to separate. Matthew was 9 months old at the time. One day the parents got into the car and drove Near Niagara Falls, Warren Langford was already It was there that the young couple put the "I'm told, my father took me out of my arms, and, with that, he quietly abandoned (Matthew Perry) John went to California to realize his dream left with a young 21-year-old mother who struggled When three-year-old Perry was in kindergarten, door hard on his fingers. The boy was taken to the hospital, and his a call at work. Matty actually lost the tip of his middle But, fearing that his tears would bring pain cry, but instead calmed his mother with the cry." Even then Perry became a &quot;performer&quot; and &quot;People The three-year-old boy realized that now he peace is his mission. However, despite his heroic behavior in the of a part of his finger for six long years, One day everything stopped when he, a nine-year-old which used to be normal practice. The pilot noticed that Matty was hiding his When he, burning with shame, did this, his flaw. Realizing that this man, who controls the the missing fingertip, Perry got rid of his By the way, fans of &quot;Friends&quot;, remember that Chandler Bing also lacks part of a finger, his foot. Later, you'll see that Matthew actually has And it's no coincidence at all. But more on that later. Until now, little Perry lived his childhood at any cost. She, at that time, was the press secretary and spent a lot of time at work. When she came home after a hard day's work, her about his day. Even then, he stayed at home alone for a long the time, and therefore constantly felt lonely. "I would tell people I was a lonely child, (Matthew Perry) After his father left the family, Perry was not come home from work either. He tried his best to win her attention. He did it best when he was joking. &quot;My mother is beautiful; she was a star in "And she's certainly the reason I'm Chandler and his mother also had a difficult She was a beautiful, successful author - the And Chandler also wanted her to just pay attention bit and give him a piece of her love. Matty automatically saw every man his mother a strong shoulder, a man from whom he could And every time Suzanne's suitors, one by one, tragedy for Perry. "When a plane went over our house, I'd [John] [insert name of Mom's latest beau] "I was continually losing my father; I was His real father, John, called Matty every After giving up his music career, he tried in Hollywood. Being a very handsome man, he became the official &quot;I saw his face more often on TV or in magazines "Perhaps that's why I became an actor.&quot; For Matty, his father was a real superhero, be like him. Later, the boy began to fly to Los Angeles A vivid memory of this period was the case alone to his father by plane. The boy was terrified, his feet didn't even him, so all Matthew had to calm down was a of the city, I knew we were landing, that have a parent again. - he recalled, - That's always given me a feeling of safety." Since then, he has always chosen a house with For each birthday, the future actor made only again. Matty constantly felt unhappy and could not By the way, in another popular TV series "Scrubs'' father also played the roles of father and Their relationship was very vividly shown give his kidney to the older Gregory. The father, in whom the whole hospital fell his positivity with everyone except his sarcastic from him all his life. Apparently, it was easy for both actors to but was it easy for them to play, in fact, Who knows... Meanwhile, Matty was getting used to his new Suzanne, who moved frequently because of her left to nannies, finally took her son to Toronto. By that time, she was married to the host and was due to give birth. Perry's sister, Caitlin, was a beautiful girl However, he felt more and more like an outsider He understood that he did not fit into this complexes. That's when his bad behavior began. Matty received low grades, started smoking, same Justin Trudeau, who became prime minister He was only 10 at the time. &quot;I decided to end my argument with him when actor joked. When Perry was in seventh grade, his family He attended Ashbury College Boys' School (by And hello again, Chandler Bing) and honed Once he got one of the main roles in the school &quot;It was a big part, and I just loved it -- making later recalled. Since then, he has participated in all school However, this did not stop him from doing Matthew stole money, smoked more and more And one day the teachers turned his desk in except the wall, because he talked a lot and laugh. One of the teachers, Dr. Webb once told Perry, never amount to anything.&quot; When he became mega-popular and got on the this teacher with an attached note with the Although young Perry's behavior left much the attitude of the teachers a little. The fact was that Matty played tennis. "My grandfather started teaching me how time I was eight I knew I could beat him--but (Matthew Perry) Wimbledon [wim * buhl * dn] and a professional Perry wanted to have a lot of awards, hold in this way he would definitely attract his &quot;By fourteen, I was nationally ranked in Canada "but that was also the year something else The big terrible thing, tennis and moving but really they are trying to overcome a mental (The Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous) the first time. Even before that, he believed that this bitter and most importantly, muffle the inner pain And how couldn't he think so, if films and with a glass of alcohol in their hand? Then he was friends with two brothers Chris Since the third grade, this trio has invented it BE any hotter?"(This style of conversation of "Friends&quot; later). Therefore, friends were sitting in Matt's and the guys decided to try alcohol for the There was a bottle of wine and six bottles The brothers took the beer, and Perry took After 15 minutes, everything was drunk, Chris out on the grass, and Matty lay and looked He finally found what he had been looking It was then that he realized that he was not He had no side effects from the effects of everything went to hell). In the meantime, he was in a state of bliss. During these three hours, he had no problems. He was not abandoned; he did not quarrel with he was not interested in what life was and Alcohol took all these thoughts out of Matty's Oddly enough, after such an experience, Matty But the beginning of a harmful habit for him With growing up, interest in girls also came. However, one unpleasant experience almost One day, a girl he liked offered to take the Matty was so nervous that he had drunk six not succeed. Disappointed and angry at himself, the guy found a place in his already sick mind, where anger and despair lived side by side. Meanwhile, his family was growing. Perry had another sister, Emily, whom he also However, the relationship with his mother They often quarreled, and tennis was the only constantly nervous and crying there, even After all, the game almost always started was already so tired that he was crying from Besides, he missed his father very much. And the decision came by itself. He was going to live in Los Angeles to be Susanna and John, after talking, decided that their 15-year-old son, as well as for his They were seriously considering sending Matty Suzanne and John, after talking, decided that 15-year-old son, as well as for his future They were seriously considering sending Matty Florida. Later it would turn out that his level of in Canada, was mediocre in the United States, Wimbledon. But Perry didn't know that yet. He just wanted to change the scenery, and John had already married by that time, and The new wife and father warmly welcomed the The whole family went to support Matty at It was a Satellite [sa. *. tuh. *. lite] tournament where the guy didn't That's how Matthew Perry's sports career ended, He had to come up with another plan and choose At that time, Perry began studying at a prestigious in Thornton Wilder's school play "Our Town&quot;. The guy was delighted and began to think about When John found out about it, he, without "Acting with Style&quot;. There was the inscription inside it: &quot;Another Love, Dad." In the evenings, the elder Perry liked to himself vodka and tonic and saying one phrase happened to me all day.&quot; It is not surprising that Matty, as an adult, But there was still a difference between father After six glasses in the evening, in the morning as if nothing had happened. Matty, on the contrary, found it difficult alcohol got into his body the day before. But then he did not even realize what terrible Later, his father would completely give up For Matthew, this decision will turn into "I have spent upward of $7 million trying I have been to six thousand AA meetings. I've been to rehab fifteen times. I've been in a mental institution, gone been to death's door." (Matthew Perry) a bunch of cockroaches in his head, who was salvation from loneliness in becoming a famous The first steps in an acting career Inspired by the life of a rather famous father, In 1983, he appeared in the comedy series later he received a cameo role in the first There he played the role of Ed, a wealthy a Princeton man, and a surgeon--I'd like In 1987 and 1988, he played one of the main Chance" (later called Boys Will Be Boys). He went to the audition with his father, because and son. But after the auditions, only Matthew was He did not dissuade his son from participating the studio with Matty since, and appeared final episode as a support group. As for Perry, he was 17, he already had his was a lot of money for a teenager! The young man, without hesitation, dropped He became more confident in himself, and his cute guy. One day, when the young actor was sitting walked past their table and put a note in audition of his new film. This man turned out to be director William his novel "A Night in The Life of Jimmy Matthew successfully auditioned for the role slightly arrogant Fred Roberts, who "suffered This topic turned out to be close to Perry, he was afraid of intimacy with girls. The main role in the film was played by River The actor, however, died five years later Perry. Filming took place in Chicago, and the 17-year-old for the first time. He and River often drank after work, played At the same time, he met a girl named Tricia By that time Matthew turned 18 and he wanted work out for him, so he assured his beloved sure. Tricia began to suspect that something was was. Matthew told the girl about the first unsuccessful did not alienate his beloved. On the contrary, it became a kind of challenge However, at first nothing worked out for them Perry's psychological trauma haunted him. Nothing worked, and Matthew pulled away from &quot;I sat there,&quot; he continued his story, &quot;soft, a nun's during Vespers, doing my best to two.' But Tricia understood his fears and helped Since then, he has never had any problems As for Tricia, Perry soon ended his relationship "Friends" were at the peak of popularity. And although nothing good came out of their first female star. Although shooting scenes with Perry in the lasted only three weeks, the guy was allowed Those were wonderful, fun and carefree days. However, after returning to Los Angeles, Matty School grades have not improved, hundreds He was taken into episodic comedy roles, but At his graduation from school, his only desire And this wish came true. It was then that Matthew realized how right during the family dinner after graduation and were strangers to each other. By the way, it will be decades before Suzanne But it will be for a completely different In the meantime, Perry led a wild life, hung "According to Malcom Gladwell, if you did be an expert. This made me an expert in two areas: 1980s Only one of those subjects is important enough I'll let you guess which one." (Matthew Perry) episodes of the first season of the popular There he played the role of Roger Azarian, a businessman. Apparently, Perry had such a type - a kind early roles were quite similar to each other. By that time, the actor was not yet 22 years He constantly had some kind of work, but the and fame were in no hurry to knock on his In the same year, Perry starred in another role of the brother of the main character, After the first season, the project was closed, except for two. Firstly, on the set he met Craig Bierko, who Their company also included David Pressman many for the voice acting of The Simpsons, Phoebe loved. Another memorable moment from the Sydney show sister Valerie. Matthew has always been attracted to inaccessible because she was already married to musician It was difficult for Perry to hide his feelings the sitcom became more and more unbearable. One evening, Matthew stayed late at the Van They were drinking, and then Eddie fell asleep There was alcohol or hidden feelings - however, And this was in the room where Eddie slept! The next day, the actress pretended that nothing And although everything was not going well affair with her colleague, which had not had A year later, the couple still divorced, but A frivolous life, lack of financial skills joke with the financial situation of the young Money was running out, and it was getting Until fate gave Matthew a CHANCE! Chandler we fell in love with his agents back and begged them to find him The work was not long in coming. It was a sci-fi comedy about baggage handlers &quot;L.A.X. <<2194>>&quot;. Matthew was paid 22.5 thousand dollars for a comfortable existence for now. However, at the same time, another script fell into his hands. After reading it, Perry realized that he had The fact is that a contract was signed with allow the actor to participate in new projects. But in one of the characters of the second "When I read the script for Friends Like for a year, stealing my jokes, copying my witty view of life. One character in particular stood out to me: I was Chandler." (Matthew Perry) To make matters worse, everyone he knew also and also asking Matthew for advice on how like Perry. His friend Hank Azaria also auditioned. Twice. However, he did it for the role of Joey. However, he was refused. Later, Hank played a scientist who was totally for these few episodes. &quot;I did 237 episodes and won nothing,&quot; Perry Matthew practiced reading of the lines so for the auditions, that he soon knew all the the agents and begged them to come up with with another show and still audition for Friends From the first pages of the script, he felt The dialogues were funny, the characters were these six friends from New York with the usual Perry just had to be one of those lucky ones, But one day his friend Craig Bierko said that - Best Friends and the already famous Friends of who? What do you think? Of course, it was the role of Chandler. By that time, the rest of the actors had already Perry advised Bierko to still try to get into wanted this role with all his heart. Craig did not listen to this advice and agreed Friends&quot;. So Chandler's role was still not taken. It was a sign of fate. Perry had another chance and he wasn't going By the way, later Bierko was very sorry that could not even talk to Perry for several years Matthew took advantage of it. Later, they renewed their friendship. "That phone call at Fred Segal's, and show, rather than be part of an ensemble, I don't know what would have happened to It is not out of the realms of possibility downtown." (Matthew Perry) The NBC producer Jamie Tarses, once in a conversation TV producer, asked him if the show &quot;L.A.X. negative answer. She then asked Dan if Matthew Perry could they were still looking for, and this time So the young 24-year-old actor had a chance, only can play the role of Chandler, he is He came to the audition without a script, show, Marta Kauffman, and recited his lines He successfully passed this audition, as well of the team, the unsurpassed Mr. Chandler later recognized as "Friends". Three weeks before the audition, Perry was an article about Charlie Sheen. The article said that the famous actor got But Matthew did not understand why Charlie world-famous actor?! Out of the blue, the actor got down on his whatever you want to me. Just please make me famous." God granted Matthew's wish. He made him famous. And he also fulfilled the first part of the After all, everything comes with a cost. &quot;Be afraid of your desires, they may come "Now, all these years later, I'm certain entire life trying to get famous. You have to get famous to know that it's And nobody who is not famous will ever truly (Matthew Perry) and the most famous sitcom of all time in We will tell you about this later. In the meantime, you are nostalgic with us subscribe to our channel and click on the most famous stars. We have a lot of interesting things ahead. Well, is it ready? Then let's continue! True &quot;Friends&quot; and their secret of success just what Friends means to people. And we knew from the very start that it was (Matthew Perry) for the first time to get acquainted. For Perry, all the actors except Jennifer But Matthew met Aniston three years before in love with her. Once he even asked her out on a date, but Is it the irony of fate? Perhaps. After all, for some three years they really Perry will have to hide his feelings again. Yes, he's no stranger to it... Director Jimmy Burrows understood that for the shot, it was necessary for the actors Therefore, instead of the usual reading of to the playground in Monica's apartment and other better and communicate. They talked about everything. The time in the friendly atmosphere passed that everyone really felt that a real FRIENDSHIP After that they went to lunch and at the table Geller, said: &quot;There are no stars here. This is an ensemble show. We're all supposed to be friends.&quot;And everyone From that first day, the actors became inseparable. They ate together, played poker. And although each was assigned a separate They were more comfortable and more fun together. Perry always tried to make everyone laugh, Wasn't that what Chandler always did? At the end of the first day, for the first could not wait to be among people again tomorrow, The next day, the entire cast was waiting who were involved in the project, including And then there was the rehearsal at Monica's Everything went great. Everyone began to realize that the show would a lot of money, and the actors get a long-awaited In the meantime, the work process was in full Episodes were being filmed. The friendship was getting stronger. Everyone was allowed to be creative, everyone, Unsuccessful jokes were replaced with more even invited each of the cast to lunch to a part of the actor himself to each character on the screen. Perry later said: &quot;At my lunch I said two myself not unattractive, I had terrible luck toward the disastrous; and two, that I was have to break any such moment with a joke.&quot; This was the reason to make Chandler the funniest The actors got so carried away with their filming of the first season they almost did Everything was going as well as possible and ready for production. However, no one knew about the show yet, and yet. They had a whole summer before the start of Matthew remembered this summer with three The first one was a trip with the cast to like unknown people to anyone else. The second one was a trip to Mexico, where And the third one was a little affair with [gwi * nuhth pal * trow]. The couple met at The Williamstown Theatre Both were there most of the summer, putting At the mention of Gwyneth herself, the actors local student bar, kissed in the field. They remained friends for a while until their of this summer romance. &quot;Friends&quot;, which was the name they decided at 8.30 pm between two other very popular It was a very good choice, which later also themselves. The premiere of the sitcom took place on September which was good for a new project. Basically, critics liked the series, but there Despite this, after a dozen episodes, "Friends" series, and since then have not gone below And in 1995, "Friends" won the People's New Television Comedy Series&quot; for the magnificent Matthew shared his experience about the ceremony: It was after the successful first season that contract than others, because before "Friends" came to the cast with an offer. He decided to renegotiate the terms of his the same amount for each episode, regardless in it. Such a noble act influenced the future fate for envy and injustice in it, which means Perhaps this is where the success and worldwide Who knows? And while we continue, write in the comments: As for Perry, he was over the moon. He was 25. Glory finally knocked on his door. He had everything he had dreamed of for so But did it bring him happiness? Once the actor shared his thoughts on this been on the least-watched show in the history the most-watched [Friends] and none of it do to my life." Relationship with a star and a big movie of &quot;Friends&quot;, it was decided to immediately On the episode "The One After The Super such as Jean-Claude Van Damme, Brooke Shields, Marta Kauffman told Perry that Julia would that she would be in Chandler's story, but And this honorable mission fell on Perry's He decided to send the star three dozen roses more exciting than the prospect of you doing to send you flowers.&quot;To this, Roberts replied explained quantum physics to her in simple The very next day he sent her what she asked By fax. Yes, people communicated in this way, among The communications did not end there. Julia sent more and more questions each time, who was involved in "Friends". Everyone was rooting for him and believed soon melt. Finally she sent him bagels. That's how their long-distance relationship They lasted more than three months. They exchanged dozens, hundreds of messages Perry fell head over heels for her, and they and they didn't see each other either! Finally, one day, a fax came to Matty with Overcoming his fear, the man dialed Julia's easy it was for them to communicate. They talked for 5.5 hours and so the relationship However, it was short-lived. After all, very soon Roberts appeared on the started spinning very quickly. They became a couple even before they starred Perry met his girlfriend's family, and the of Mexico, playing football in the snow. However, what started quickly - ended quickly it was necessary to break up with Julia. His old complexes affected him. &quot;Dating Julia Roberts had been too much for - I had been constantly certain that she was not? I was not enough; I could never be enough; So Matty didn't find anything better than Later, he regretted this choice very much that he once lost forever. After the second season of "Friends" was in the comedy drama "Fools Rush In" with For this work, he received a fee of $ 1 million Filming took place in Vegas. The biggest difficulty was that the scenes second day it was necessary to squeeze out unborn child. But Matty had only known Salma for a few days emotions. Hayek once just came to Perry in his van and each other. However, this did not help much either. In another scene, when Perry's character needed sad. But there was one thing. The shooting lasted 10 hours, and the director When the actor, exhausted from all emotions, he asked him to cry twice more. This upset Matthew so much that he actually filmed. And during the love confession of the two through her, as if seeing their future together. Then the actor replied in his usual manner: you in this scene. You look wherever you want, but I'm going In general, jokes were Perry's "feature&quot;. He was gushing with ideas on how to make this To which the director of the picture Andy that. You're interesting enough to watch without enough&quot; the actor wanted to hear all his life. However, Andy still listened to some of Perry's Once one of the actor's friends came up with knew that I always wanted.&quot; Matthew offered it to the director and he The actor later admitted that it was the best And besides, it became the most famous phrase However, not everything was so rosy during One day Perry was offered to go to Lake Mead An unpleasant incident occurred while riding. &quot;I turned the Jet Ski hard right, but my body - I was airborne, and then I was not airborne. Once I surfaced, I looked back to where I'd shoreline, the entire crew, who had been watching dove into Lake Mead to get me." It turned out that the actor was badly hurt A doctor was called and he gave Perry a painkiller He got on his character's Mustang and drove He felt so good that he even thought, "If If Matty had known then how that pill would However, he didn't think about it then. But he just called the doctor and said that next morning he already had 40 of them prescribed Unfortunately, nothing ended on these forty. After a year and a half, Perry swallowed 55 up in a drug rehabilitation center, where This will be repeated 14 more times. Banned substances will alternate with alcohol, last his whole life... Struggle with addiction and continuous work At the end of the third season of Friends, "You can track the trajectory of my addiction I'm carrying weight, it's alcohol; when When I have a goatee, it's lots of pills." (Matthew Perry) Now the only thought every day was where he His dose by that time had already reached was very ill. Perry did everything possible to get medicines for pills in the cabinets of his friends' their viewing in search of at least something After the success of the first film, Perry time the comedy "Almost Heroes&quot; with Chris This time the actor has already been paid Filming took place in North Carolina. Both performers of the main roles struggled Perry was sick all the time, he was still of pills. Chris Farley never lived to see the premiere, and talk about his colleague's addiction while No one guessed what was going on with him "I didn't know how to stop,&quot; he will say. "The disease and the addiction is progressive, One day he became so ill that he told his a rehabilitation center in Minnesota [,mInI'soUt@]. Detoxification was difficult, the actor had But he recovered, improved his health a little, painkillers. The fourth season of &quot;Friends&quot; was his best, great. But the actor was not fully conscious for Already 68 days after being discharged from again. And since then he drank daily until 2001. In parallel with season 4, he starred in the in love with his colleague on the set Neve Perry, again with an inaccessible woman. She chose another one, and the glass helped "When I can get someone, I have to leave enough and I'm about to be found out, but just proves I'm not enough and I've been (Matthew Perry) bang at the box office, collecting a little as much. Critics didn't like it either, mostly because Matty was 30 years old when he was taken to The reason was excessive alcohol consumption. His girlfriend at the time, Jamie Tarses [TAR-siss], the role of Chandler, spent all her days with The actor was prescribed another powerful Of course, no one knew about his addiction, And it all started anew: dealers, constant And all this despite the fact that Matty temporarily There he did not stop using, and once he almost stairs in front of his father's house, driving Of course, the photo with the star near the Perry moved out from his father, but he can't One day, during the filming of the 5th season dressing room and admitted that they knew It was a shock for Perry - he carefully concealed However, the actor did not want to admit that his friends. He promised not to drink, and replaced some dose. In the pause between the 5th and 6th seasons, comedy "The Whole Nine Yards'' with Bruce Filming took place in Montreal [,m^ntri'o:l]. The cast was good, and director Kevin Pollak and share creative ideas. All that was needed from Perry's character with Natasha Henstridge [nuh * ta * shuh The actor coped with both missions perfectly Willis rented an entire penthouse of the InterContinental lasted all night, and the actors and crew set. Perry started using a powerful sedative so a crazy schedule, even knowing that a tranquilizer One weekend, Bruce took Perry and his then where they rested for three whole days, not Bruce rented all the nearby houses so that Despite all this, the workflow went pretty The Whole Nine Yards became the number one Critics mostly praised the performance of earned 106 million dollars to its creators. Interestingly, Bruce himself did not believe Perry made a bet. If the picture is successful, then Willis free. So it turned out, and Bruce appeared in the for his role. Four years after this success, a sequel appeared "If The Whole Nine Yards was the start The Whole Ten Yards was the end." (Matthew Perry) The film was shot in Los Angeles, the actors inferior to the first part. The picture failed at the box office, and The paths of the two friends, who had been before, diverged. Matthew returned to the Friends' set and the it was getting worse every day. Colleagues and the crew worried about the who would monitor his sobriety. But when once again everything went down the romantic comedy "Serving Sara&quot;. As a result, due to his unsatisfactory condition, fine of 650 thousand dollars and go to another This time it was in Los Angeles. The film, by the way, was released already It barely collected $20 million with a budget However, back to Matty. A month of detoxification did little to help center in Malibu ['maelIbu:], where he There he came across a book of Alcoholics to understand his addiction and its causes, about his lifestyle and how his actions affected "I was living in rehab when Monica and Chandler It was May 17, 2001," the actor later recalled. In the same center, he also watched the Academy was received by the one and only Julia Roberts, he regretted the most. Of course, Perry did not live by thoughts very active. The girls were replaced one after another, At one time, he was seen in public with actress was so in love with her at the time), producer former tennis player Maeve Quinlan, and actress But all these were fleeting romances that never commented on them. And let's go back to the rehabilitation center. After 3 months, Perry was cured of alcoholism with his girlfriend Jamie Tarses and was ready The end of &quot;Friends&quot; and further projects for the entire crew. However, the actors were already beginning were so loved by viewers all over the world. Jennifer Aniston was the first, who persuaded she already had future projects in a big movie. During the last episode, where all the keys said goodbye to their usual life, it was Perry He asked Marta Kauffman about it, as it was However, when the shooting ended, the entire Everyone except Matthew. &quot;I felt nothing&quot; - the actor said. And he didn't know if it was because he was dead inside. Despite the end of a huge milestone in his the future with hope. He was just about to release a sequel to The episodes of the drama series "Ally McBeal" for which he was already twice nominated for And in 2006, the drama "The Ron Clark Story" It was about a real teacher from a small town schools in Harlem [haa * luhm]. "There wasn't a single joke in the whole off camera I created a character called "Ron in front of the children." (Matthew Perry) nominations for the SAG Award, Golden Globe He lost all three to Robert Duvall [du:'vo:l]. Back during the filming of "The Ron Clark Strip" fell into Matthew's hands. He liked it, but only 50 thousand dollars last season of "Friends" the actor received And Matt LeBlanc [ l@'blaNGk] for his spin-off Long negotiations began, which raised Perry's In addition, the creators of the series gave the roles. She was a good friend of Matthew, who starred Ten Yards. Despite the good script, the atmosphere on in "Friends". The author of the show, Aaron Sorkin [a * ruhn did everything in his own way, Matty's ideas When the pilot episode aired, critics were However, as the actor later recalled, "it and quality TV, as though those two things After the first season, due to poor ratings, of work again. Changes were also planned in Perry's personal The relationship with Lizzy Caplan [li * zee dating since 2006, began to grow into something At Christmas, four years after they met, Perry they were depicted together: she was with and he was holding a Red Bull and reading were writing to each other. The artist added 1,780 hearts, one for each these little hearts were combined into one Lizzy took this gift very well. And Matty even wanted to confess to her that out, and his sarcastic comment spoiled the The couple dated for six long years, and then Perry said that it was after the day when relationship began to wane. &quot;I often think if I'd asked [her to marry he wrote in his book. &quot;Instead, I'm some schmuck who's alone in In addition to building a relationship with In 2007, he starred in the romantic comedy screenwriter with clinical depression, who The picture received mediocre reviews from The following year, Perry appeared in another the difficult relationship between brothers The actor was credited with a small affair who played the wife of Matthew's character any way. In 2009, Perry starred in the teen fantasy older version of Mike O'Donnell, who was given his dreams. The younger version of Mike was played by Despite mediocre reviews from critics, the They criticized mainly casting directors who emotionally people the role of the same person. Well, it happens. Struggling with addictions and solving problems own sitcom called "Mr. Sunshine". He put a piece of himself into the main character, In the story, Ben ran The Sunshine Centre, This quirky but short-lived comedy told about at an unusual job. Matthew called the positive aspect of this show from scratch. However, the audience was interested in his Then the ratings began to fall inexorably The following year, he played in another series who was trying to survive the death of his And again, there was a successful start and And once again there were unsatisfactory ratings. Between these two projects, Perry ended up However, these visits to the centers supported the level of normal functioning only temporarily, Back in 2001, in one of the centers, he met of the actor. Together with Earl, he went through all the When Earl founded a company with sober living 500 thousand dollars in the company and turned house called Perry House. Matthew and Earl traveled to Washington, D.C. the effectiveness of the courts on banned Such courts seek to decriminalize nonviolent instead of imprisonment. And in May 2013, Perry even received the &quot;Champion Office of National Drug Control Policy. It was decided to tell about these and other became the host for one episode, and his guest stop laughing at the jokes of her friend and Earl was at the last moment he couldn't get on the But he and Perry flew to Europe to raise the there. But they didn't succeed. The sobriety house in Malibu also did not to sell it. Earl never gave him back the 500 thousand to Arizona. Out of desperation, having lost such a sum using again. The last years of his life and his own book After the failure of the show &quot;Go On&quot;, Matthew He was using again, becoming more and more He needed a breath of fresh air. This was the sitcom &quot;The Odd Couple&quot; about decided to live together. Matthew's partner on the set was Thomas Lennon The source material was brilliant; the cast hit. However, depression haunted the star, and He was late all the time, he was under the didn't solve anything in his own show. However, this time it was not closed after Perry began to write in order to somehow deal the whole world. The play &quot;The End of Longing&quot; was written to perfect it. The play's action took place in a bar in downtown the age of forty who were looking for the Perry played the main role of Jack, a man He repeatedly stated that this role was sort that this is not an autobiography. The play received mixed reviews from critics, rather resembled a miniseries - "short scenes, of their relationships" Jesse Green in New End of Longing," which opened on Monday to a relapse. The part Mr. Perry has written for himself drunk named Jack who is eking his way through of charm". However, many praised Perry for his first Performing on stage in his hometown for his her to the play, and she refused, citing a Later in an email, she explained that she time for friends. The actor did not respond to this letter and &quot;It was an incredibly harsh way to reveal said, &quot;and not something that I would ever Even still, I will forever be planted in her In 2017, Matthew returned to TV screens again, Fight" and playing the role of Ted Kennedy The producers of the project were very worried role the Kennedy family played in American However, Perry was not confused by the iconic And one of the main reasons to take up this that would surpass his previous work. "I didn't feel pressure [taking on the I just looked at it as an opportunity to do I wanted to make sure that I didn't do a myself to the role,&quot; the actor said. And already in July 2019, he found himself He underwent a seven-hour emergency operation result of the abuse of potent painkillers. That day, doctors told his family that he After the incident, he spent five months in in a coma. During his life, Perry underwent 14 stomach &quot;That's a lot of reminders to stay sober,&quot; scars in October 2022. &quot;All I have to do is look down.&quot; When Perry had thoughts of taking pills again, said: if he thinks about using illegal substances for the rest of his life. In addition to his parents, after the operation, - literary manager Molly Hurwitz, with whom The couple did not advertise their relationship to her and the couple was engaged for six Yes, there was the same trouble again. It never came to the wedding. &quot;Sometimes things just don't work out, and in an official statement. In the midst of quarantine due to the COVID-19 while in a rehabilitation center in Switzerland. He had to undergo surgery and during the procedure After 11 hours, he woke up in another hospital his heart for five minutes. The long process of cardiopulmonary resuscitation After such serious health and personal life 2021, during the broadcast of a special episode in the elderly tired man that Matthew Perry, Years of struggling with a big terrible thing During this meeting, the actor also confessed difficulties he faced during the filming of the series. And fans learned more about the secrets of the book "Friends, Lovers and the Big Terrible There Perry takes the reader behind the scenes addiction. Sincere, conscious, and written with Matty's his lifelong struggle with the disease and In a 2022 interview with People, Perry revealed with addiction. "I say in the book that if I did die it anybody. And that's what I'm doing with writing That's why I wanted to do it," - the star "I wanted to talk about the highs and the and maybe if they hear a story from somebody or just the same of their's, they'll be During the release of his memoirs, the actor in which he shared his own life experience. Perry stressed that people with addiction their behavior is a disease and it can be &quot;There's a famous lie that people don't change. I happen to know that people do change and people getting better. I see the lights in their eyes coming on. They get through the terrible part of addiction, life as long as they do a certain amount of The actor didn't want to be remembered only It was important for him to remain in the &quot;I'd like to be remembered as somebody who said in an interview. Friends, Lovers, and the Big Terrible Thing the most intimate details of Perry's lost Critics were delighted with the book, and story of their idol turned out to be. &quot;I'm this close to dying every day&quot; - was If only he had known then how close he was Before moving on to the last, saddest chapter can subscribe to our channel in order not sometimes life-affirming about your favorite And we continue! Rest in peace, Mattman! On October 28, 2023, the world was shocked in a hot tub at his home in Los Angeles, California. Initial reports claimed that no prohibited were no violent acts that could have led to However, the investigation into the death Investigators are still waiting for full toxicology On November 1, 2023, law enforcement agencies were no common prohibited substances in Perry's This confirmed the words of the actor, who an interview with the New York Times in 2022. However, it will take months to conduct more illegal substances in his blood and if there medications. On the day of his death, nothing predicted Perry spent the morning playing pickleball on the court. It is reported that when he returned home, He returned two hours later, and it was he 911. For everyone, the news of the sudden death Parents and friends of the star find it difficult The actor's family published a statement to which reads: &quot;We are heartbroken by the tragic Matthew brought so much joy to the world, You all meant so much to him and we appreciate Perry's co-stars on Friends also later broke by the loss of Matthew. We were more than just cast mates. We are a family,&quot; their statement read. &quot;There is so much to say, but right now we're this unfathomable loss.&quot; &quot;In time we will say more, as and when we &quot;For now, our thoughts and our love are with who loved him around the world.&quot; While the cause of Matthew Perry's death remains but wonder if his sudden death was related battle with addiction. The star's recent strange posts about Batman to wonder if he had asked for help because The sudden death of a beloved celebrity struggling This lack of answers only prompted conspiracy the most pressing question: How did Matthew Conspiracy lovers dive deep and carefully The reason for this curiosity was one of the his death. He put three berries on the table with the today. I'm Mattman.&quot; In several Instagram posts, he playfully compared Combining the actor's name and Batman seemed stated otherwise in a shocking post X. According to him, the berries in the star's but Baneberry. Baneberry is a type of poisonous berry whose A fan hinted that Perry was shouting for help Other users, on the contrary, saw cranberries that the soloist of the group "Cranberries" in her bath. Whatever it was, friends and acquaintances before the tragic events, deny any manifestations One of the journalists of Entertainment Tonight, his death, told: The journalist also shared Matthew's plans He was involved in many projects, and also who already played his younger version in the main role in the film. An argument against the version according an interview that was made a year before the There Matthew said that he understood the but never planned to pass away on his own. &quot;I never tried, but I did so many dr*gs at me,&quot; Perry explained. &quot;But I would do it, but I never wanted to As you can see, the actor's plans for the Matthew Perry's relatives gathered for the The service was held at Forest Lawn Memorial as a source told PEOPLE, adding that it was Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Before his untimely death, the beloved &quot;Friends&quot; addiction for decades, planned to start a substance abuse. His loved ones brought this matter to an end, Perry Foundation website was launched. &quot;The Matthew Perry Foundation is the realization others struggling with the disease of addiction,&quot; &quot;It will honor his legacy and be guided by his passion for making a difference in as as possible.&quot; Well, Matthew Perry's dream of helping people death. We will remember him not only as the funniest with his big terrible thing all his life and And that's all for today. If you want to find out how the fate of other out, you can watch the video that appeared We will be grateful for your like. It was the Biographer channel! See you in the next video.