Sonic the Hedgehog has been thrilling gamers But around the internet, rumors persist that has a darker side. What is Sonic.EXE? There are over twenty Sonic games since its guest appearances in other series. But in 2011, a story started making the rounds named JC-the-Hyena. It told the story of a lost Sonic Game - one one young gamer forever. And it all started with one foolish decision... A young man named Tom was a massive Sonic While he liked the newest games, he had a But he had never played any fan-made, hacked, He was happy with the current game, Sonic by a package arriving in his mail. Grabbing it and opening it, he saw that it good friend Kyle - who had been off the radar But something was wrong with the message Kyle The writing was scratchy and poorly written, disturbed and was writing to Tom begging for He was desperate to get rid of the disk, and He said he couldn't do it because he - something much too fast. He begged Tom to destroy the disk, and with And he left Tom with a final warning. Whatever you do, do not play the game. It's what HE wants. Tom was freaked out, and he wanted to trust He looked over the disk, and it looked like of the words SONIC.EXE written in black marker. And what was odd was, it didn't look like Maybe Kyle had gotten this from someone else He was about to find out. He turned on his computer and put the disk like the original Sonic game from 1991. Tom got excited, because he had been feeling of games. But as he pressed start, he saw something It was his first indication that something It was only a few seconds, but the game screen The sky got dark. The title became covered in rust. The Sega 1991 logo suddenly turned to Sega And Sonic...changed. He became something disturbing, a twisted red pupils that felt like they were staring And just like that, the horrifying figure But it wouldn't be the last disturbing sign Tom was a huge fan of this game, and it didn't was very wrong. The save screen that popped up was from Sonic The background looked like a dark and cloudy The music wasn't from a Sonic game at all, - but seemed distorted somehow. And all the save files just showed odd red But when he got to the character selection There should have been three characters on Tails and Knuckles were there. But not present was Sonic himself. What kind of Sonic game is it if you can't But equally bizarre was who was in his place who has never been playable in any of the It was clear this wasn't a normal or glitchy Tom didn't get scared off easily, and so But before he could get started, the game like the evil clown Kefka from Final Fantasy The game then cut to black, and eventually It looked like the first level from Sonic was off. The music was slower and distorted, and it Tails running on flat ground for several minutes And then something horrible came into view. It was one of the little pixelated animals As Tails ran on, more animal corpses came Tails even seemed to notice, having a disturbed As Tails ran on, the deaths seemed to become on trees in disgusting ways or being dismembered. Tom forced Tails to move on past the gruesome And then they saw something that stopped them It was Sonic, and Tails stopped as soon as Tails seemed happy for a second, but Sonic He stood there with his back to the screen a sick feeling in his stomach as the static And then Sonic turned around, and things got Sonic looked like he did on that brief flash dots in the middle. Before anything could happen, the screen went another disturbing message. "Hello. Do you want to play with me?" Tom knew he should just turn off the game, game turned on again. It was a new level, this one from Sonic 3, While Tom didn't know what was going on, terrified. Tom could swear that the video game character out of the area - but that wasn't possible, Tails was just a video game character, and wall, especially in an old-school game. There was only one thing to do - run. Tom pressed down on the arrow key, and tried as possible, as odd out of place music continued Suddenly, his blood ran cold as the odd laugh Sonic began appearing, those horrible red Tails. Then, suddenly, he appeared - flying. Sonic wasn't supposed to be able to fly, And whatever he planned to do to Tails, he evil grin on his face. Then, suddenly - Tails tripped. The game cut to another cutscene as Sonic Tom could only watch in horror as Tails lay Suddenly, Sonic appeared in front of him, He lunged at Tails, the screen went black, five seconds. Then, a new text crawl appeared. "You're too slow, want to try again?" Tom was quickly brought back to the character longer playable, his orange fur now black Tom shrugged it off and chose Knuckles, and game. And this time, the game taunted him right "You Can't Run". He found himself in a strange new level with menu alongside a construction zone. Tom moved Knuckles forward in the new level, with the taunt "Found You". And making the scene even more disturbing, Silent Hill. But Silent Hill had been created years AFTER It wasn't long before Sonic tracked down got to play. The boss fight was short and impossible, as - almost like he was taunting them. Eventually, it went to another cut scene as at him - and the screen cut to black as the "So many souls to play with, so little time...would It was like Sonic was taunting Tom, and he So he turned the game off, but as he tried crying and begging him for help. And as he dreamed, he was stalked by the demon them - and Kyle - soon. Had this horrible Sonic done something to Tom knew he needed answers. And there was only one way to get them. He fired up the game again, with Robotnik greyed out. This time he found himself in a level that - just a darkened hallway stained with blood. Almost like it belonged in a Castlevania game. Robotnik seemed nervous, but not as terrified There didn't seem to be any enemies in this darker. Tom led Robotnik down the stairs and into once again. Sonic was here. This time Sonic appeared in front of Robotnik, fifteen seconds. Suddenly, Sonic appeared again, but Robotnik Instead, Sonic looked far more realistic than be possible in an old-school game - and he twisted smile full of sharp fangs. And Tom could swear his fur was splattered Tom couldn't stop staring, hypnotized, as words. "I AM GOD." Sonic leaped at the screen, the screen went "Ready for Round 2, Tom?" and then, just No matter what Tom did, it wouldn't turn He desperately tried to make sense of the had become of Tails, Knuckles, and Robotnik. Maybe it was just a twisted game after all? Maybe if he didn't turn the game on again, After a while, the computer turned on again, And then he heard the voice. "Try to keep this interesting for me, Tom?" The game wasn't on! Where was Sonic's voice coming from? Tom turned around in horror as he saw the version from Sonic.EXE...sitting directly What happened to Tom? No one knows. The story went viral and spread around the was a cursed Sonic game out there. While there wasn't at first, other fans on the creepy story being made not long afterwards. But while the story was popular, readers still Namely, what was this horrible, twisted Sonic The original story had no origin for the demon possessing Sonic's body to prey on his friends. A second story would later be published, a as EXE, and a young detective named Derek As EXE committed murders by jumping from body and obsessed with the case. He uncovered a secret cult and found EXE was He destroyed it - only to find that the cult as backups, and he ultimately fell prey to Is this cursed game actually out there? Like most creepypastas, the answer is not But fans who want to get up close and personal fans got a little too close for comfort with And anyone who reads this story might look differently... For another mysterious killer lurking around Explained", or watch "The Most Scary Creepypastas get.