Transcriber: Who am I? Who is anyone, really? When I wake up in the morning a world appears. These days, since I've hardly it's a very familiar world: there's the wardrobe the shuttered windows which drives Brighton residents But even more familiar of being me, that glides into existence Now this experience that its appearance, usually, We take our selves for granted, but we shouldn't. How things seem is not how they are. For most of us, most of the time, it seems as though the self, your self, in essence, a unique identity. Perhaps it seems as though of wave upon wave of perceptions, as if the world just pours through the transparent Perhaps it seems as though the self deciding what to do next or, as the case may be, We sense, we think and we act. This is how things seem. How things are is very different, and the story of how and why this is so is what I want to give you In this story, the self is not the thing The self is a perception too, or rather, it's the collection Experiences of the self and of the world turn out to be kinds brain-based best guesses that remain tied to the world and the body in ways determined not by their accuracy, but by their utility, by their usefulness for the organism Now the basic idea is quite simple, and it goes back a very long way all the way back, in fact, to Plato and to the shadows cast by firelight shadows which the prisoners within Raw sensory signals, the electromagnetic waves the pressure waves well, they're always Although they reflect they do so only indirectly. The eyes are not transparent windows nor are the ears, nor are any of our senses. The perceptual world that arises for us a world full of objects and people, with properties like shape, is always and everywhere through a process of under-the-hood, neurally implemented Now ... Here's a red coffee cup. When I see this red coffee cup, that's because &quot;red coffee cup&quot; of the hidden and ultimately unknowable And just think about Does the color red exist in the world? No, it doesn't. And we don't need neuroscience Newton discovered long ago the rainbow of the visible spectrum, are based on just a few wavelengths which itself is, of course, For us humans, a whole universe of color is generated corresponding to the three types Color-wise, this thin slice of reality, Our experience of color -- indeed, our experience of anything -- is both less than and more than Now what's happening is that the brain a regularity in how objects It's making a best guess, a top-down, inside-out prediction, about the causes and the content of that prediction -- that's what we experience as red. Does this mean that red Well, no. The experience of redness unless you're dreaming, Nothing in the brain is actually red. Cezanne, the great impressionist painter, once said that color is where the brain Now the upshot of all this is that perceptual experience drawing on the words of others, a "controlled hallucination." Now this is a tricky term, so let me be clear. What I mean is that the brain about the causes of sensory signals, whether these come from the world and the sensory signals themselves reporting a difference between what the brain expects so that the predictions Perception isn't a process in a bottom-up or outside-in direction. It's always an active construction, an inside-out, top-down neuronal fantasy that is yoked to reality in a never-ending dance Now I call this process to emphasize just this point. All of our experiences arising from within, and there's a continuity here, between normal perception where, for example, people might But in normal perception, the control is just as important Our perceptual experiences The mind doesn't make up reality. While experienced colors physical things, exist in the world it's the way in which these things appear that is always a construction, always a creative act And because we all have different brains, we will each inhabit our own distinctive, Now I've digressed quite far so let me end by returning to the self, to the experience of being you, or being me. They key idea here being any self, is also a controlled hallucination, Instead of being about the external world, experiences of selfhood are fundamentally And what's important here are composed of many different parts that normally hang together but which can come apart in, for instance, There are experiences of being with a name and a set of memories shaped by our social There are experiences of free will, of intending to do something, or of being the cause There are experiences from a particular perspective, And then, there are deeply for instance of identifying that is my body. These hands, they're my hands. And then, of emotion and mood. And at the deepest-lying, experiences of simply being a living body, of being alive. Now my contention are all perceptual predictions And the most basic aspect is that part of perception which serves to regulate the interior And when you pull on this thread, Everything that arises in consciousness and all of our conscious experiences, whether of the self or of the world, are all deeply rooted in our nature, We experience the world around us with, through and because So who are you, really? Think of yourself You exist, but you might not be Thank you. David Biello: A stand-in for the audience. (Laughter) AS: That makes me feel better. I have to say that the thought of my brain is a disturbing one. But how do all those billions give rise to this experience in your view? AS: First, I mean, so I'd use the two terms It's the same thing. And by the way, the idea of your brain wobbling around is presumably less disturbing and doing something That would be the more worrying situation. But the question, of course, You start off with a simple question, And this is why there is And there are, I think, two ways So the fundamental question here is ... What is it about a physical mechanism, in this case, a neurobiological mechanism, 86 billion neurons that can generate Put that way, it seems extremely hard, because conscious experiences that cannot be explained however complicated This is the intuition that David Chalmers But my approach, is that we can characterize what a perceptual experience is like, what an experience of self is like, what the difference between sleep And in each of those cases, about how neural mechanisms In the part of the story it's all about predictive processing, so the idea is that the brain a sort of predictive generative model and it's the content of those predictions that constitutes And as we sort of develop and test the intuition is that this hard problem of how and why neurons, can generate a conscious experience, won't be solved directly -- It will gradually fade away in a puff of metaphysical smoke. DB: Katarina wants to talk that experience of having What do we know about this ability in a matter of seconds? What is actually happening AS: Firstly, I think it's one of the best The ability to turn people into objects I wouldn't want to live Whenever we have this, like, &quot;Wouldn't it be nice to live when people swum around, Yes, but what about anesthesia? (Laughs) That's my response. It does work, this is a fantastic thing. How? Here's an enormous opportunity because we know what anesthetics do We know how they act on different And of course, we know which is that people get knocked out. And by the way, Under general anesthesia, It's an oblivion comparable or after death. So the real question is, How is the local action of anesthetics so as to explain this disappearance And to cut a long story very short, is that the different parts of the brain become functionally disconnected and by that I mean, The brain is still active, but communication between brain areas and there's still a lot we need to learn about the precise ways what are the signatures There are many different but whichever variety when it works, this is what you see. DB: I think some folks such as Jasmine are troubled by this idea might be a different color for you Is there a way of knowing in a similar way or not? AS: Again, this is a lovely topic, and it really gets to the heart about perception, because one of the aspects of perception is that the contents of perception The redness of this coffee cup, it seems to be a mind-independent, really existing property Now, certain aspects of this coffee cup Its solidity is mind-independent. If I throw it at you, David, and you don't see it coming, That doesn't depend on you seeing it, but the redness does depend on a mind. And to the extent they're going to be different Now, they may not be that different. In philosophy, there's this argument so if I see red, is that the same And we might never know. I don't have that much truck Like many thought experiments, I think the reality is that we see maybe we see them similar, and we probably overestimate between our perceptual worlds, because they're all filtered I mean, I just used the word "red," painters would say, &quot;What red?&quot; I remember when I was decorating my house, it's like, &quot;I want to paint How many shades of white are there? This is too many. And they have weird names, We will overestimate And I think it's a really how much they do indeed diverge. You will probably remember this photo of a dress and the other half saw as white and gold. AS: You're a white and gold person? AS: I'm a blue and black person. I was right, the real dress (Laughter) AS: Never mind ... DB: We could argue about that. AS: We couldn't. I talked to the dress designer. There's no argument there. But the thing that made that so weird is that it's not that we vaguely see it we really see that blueness and blackness as really existing in the world. And that was an interesting lever into a recognition of how different And in fact, a study we're doing at Sussex we're trying to characterize that is just there to be discovered. We're usually only aware of it people call things like neurodiversity, where people have experiences they manifest in different behaviors. But I think there's this, of individual diversity in perception but it's there. DB: I'm glad we could put to rest and come down firmly Daniella wants to know, &quot;Could you explain how memory is involved AS: Just as there are many there are many different I think colloquially, when we talk about memory, we often talk about autobiographical like &quot;What did I have for breakfast?&quot; &quot;When did I last go for a walk?&quot; These kinds of things. &quot;When did I last have the pleasure These are the memories as a continuous individual over time. That's one way in which memory and that part of memory can go away, back to the earlier point. There's a famous case of a guy called Clive Wearing, who had a brain disease, which basically obliterated his ability He lost his hippocampus, which is a brain region His wife described it as him living of between seven to 30 seconds. And then, everything was new. It's very, very difficult to put yourself But other aspects of his self remained. But then, there are all sorts that probably also play into what it is We have semantic memory. We just know things, like we know what the capital I hope so, I don't know. Sometimes, that's a good thing. And all of these things shape our self too. And then finally, It's not that experience is like a video but everything we experience changes and the way we perceive things part of what it is to be a self. Actually, I just want to say, one of the really interesting and one of the things we're working on -- Imagine a typical day. You go through your typical day, you're experiencing Now you blink, of course, there's this continuous stream of inputs. Yet when we remember a day, it's usually in chunks, &quot;I did this, I did that, So a really important question is, &quot;How does this chunking &quot;How does the brain extract from a relatively continuous And it's kind of disturbing, how little of any given day we remember. So it's a very selective process, and that's something not only for basic neuroscience, but, for instance, in helping people because you could, for instance, and then, you could predict what aspects and that can be very, very useful DB: The brain clearly has a good editor. You call us, people, Care to expand on that? AS: Yeah, that's right. Well, we're not cognitive computers, And I think this is true but for me, it's really at the heart mind and consciousness. And this, really, is the idea that -- In consciousness science, Vision as being the royal road Vision is easy to study, But fundamentally, brains evolved and develop and operate to keep the body alive, always in light of this deep to help the organism persist in remaining alive. And that fundamental role of brains, that's what, in my view, In order to regulate something, you need to be able to predict It's this whole apparatus that undergirds all including the self, has its origin in this role that's tightly coupled And that's why, I think, we're not just computers that happen to be implemented DB: Thank you, Anil, AS: Really enjoyed it. AS: Thanks a lot, David.