(gentle music) - Welcome to my world. Two escargot, pate brisee. Two green salads. Lamb chops, steak frites. Shouldn't you be doing something? Two smoked filet and a pepper steak. Come on, make the dessert. Chocolate torte, please. - [Voiceover] As a cook, tastes Now I'm in search of new ones. So I'm leaving New York City and hope to have a few and I'm willing to go to I'm looking for extremes I'll try anything, I'll risk everything. I have nothing to lose. First thing you think when you think Blade Runner. It's very science fiction, You really know you're somewhere else. This is far from home. I knew the kind of light and flavor I would find here. I'm really looking assault on the senses. I'm very interested in eating my way through the full spectrum I think almost all modern by Japanese presentation, contrasting textures, Embodying all of these contribution to world cuisine, sushi. - Very violent dreams last night. Full color, sound, increased heart rate. I woke up thinking of sushi. I'm particularly fortunate are Michiko and Shinji. Michiko translates and has in every way paved the way for the ignorant And Shinji, driving, translating, and thank god he's a Yankee fan, so I know I'm in good hands. - All right. - [Voiceover] We're on our way to meet an Edomae sushi master, around Tokyo's central Edomae's sushi is high end stuff, not just because it's pricey, which it is, but because of the uncompromising quality, preparation, and presentation involved. - If you translate Edomae, - Edomae, Edo is the name of - Okay. So it really does mean old style? Classic version. - Yeah, classic version, yeah. Sushi is just like cutting fish. - Fresh. - But Edomae's, they - [Voiceover] Edomae preparation standards are not sushi on the go. Absolutely uncompromising on It's purist sushi. - Very pleased to meet you. - Nice to meet you. - Anthony Bourdain. - [Voiceover] I'm fortunate to Tsukiji to accompany Mr. Togawa, the chef owner of Karaku - Gotta have my appropriate - [Voiceover] This is or Lou Gehrig showing you From the point that it to the point where I pop it in my mouth, Mr. Togawa will be by my side. Prepare to lose your mind. - Just lift off. Your head will just unscrew - [Voiceover] Tsukiji is acres and acres of fish, fish, fish. (vendor shouting) Restaurants, retail store are purchasing fish for the day. Over 2600 tons of fish is sold here daily. That's a big (bleep) tuna sandwich. First thing you encounter It's really big, it's really spread out, and the choreography has There is a system here. Everybody seems to know - Mr. Togawa, we're going as he does his shopping, to his restaurant and what he's going to do with this stuff. (bells, vendors chanting) - [Voiceover] There are few as looking at a really - Abalone, about $40 Liver? - I want sea eel. - He can show you sea eel. The different kinds of eel - [Voiceover] Eel is an Prized not just for its flavor, but for its legendary, how shall I say, stamina-giving properties. Viagra of the sea. - He looks tasty to me. - [Voiceover] Having picked out his eels, Mr. Togawa is now ready to - See the octopus? Just incredible. I just want to start weeping. - [Voiceover] Generally you find yourself working comfortably within a certain range and then suddenly, you see all this. Immediately you want to to find a way to work with This octopus is holding on for dear life. He's got a death grip on the tank. As excited as I am, the seem just as excited. - Here we go, say good bye. - [Voiceover] Seafood is taken - It's got a strange and - [Voiceover] Value is put on good food. - Very fresh. - [Voiceover] To us, food is worthless until somebody famous puts a sauce on it. It's not that way here. There is a respect for ingredients that goes against the grain One widely used ingredient - So what are we looking for here? What is Mr. Togawa looking for? It's explained this is the fattiest part, the most valued part. - We call it toro. - It's gorgeous. A big difference, toro - [Voiceover] It's the equivalent of a beautifully marbled steak. Fat is good, and the rippling is what distinguishes that belly meat from the rest of the tuna. - You get that same feeling of You just look at this with lust. Just the subtle difference, It's fought over, bid over, You can see they are very different pieces with very different qualities. When you're a chef, you you're thinking what you can I can hardly wait to see what Mr. Togawa is going to do with this stuff. - What's that bit in Apocalypse Now? &quot;I love the smell of I love the smell of fish and soy and rice wine in the morning. It smells like victory. - [Voiceover] I'm always very wary of stepping into other chefs' kitchens. - Hi. - It's an obstruction. I'm instantly aware chemically, when there are interlopers in my kitchen. (speaking Japanese) - [Voiceover] Despite its resistance, the octopus still ends up At least he can take solace in the fact that ending your life - I have some Portuguese friends who would just go insane over this. And some Italians. - Now they are going to put salt. - [Voiceover] Salt is to bring out the excess There are so many good I'm thinking he can chill it, you can make a salad of it slowly stewed. I understand that Mr. for a special appetizer. Tenderize it. - [Voiceover] At the sushi making magic with fresh fish from Tsukiji, including the eel. - Sounds fresh. Even with my eyes closed, it sounds fresh. I'm thinking, nice knife technique. You do not see this level of knife skills in French kitchens. - [Voiceover] Despite this eel is not ready to eat yet. - He boils 20 minutes. It's sugar. A lot of sugar, and then some soy sauce. That's sake, the rice wine. - [Voiceover] Mr. Togawa begins working with the best of the good stuff, otoro. - This is the piece that we He's breaking it into components. The boss always takes in not only the most expensive stuff, but also the stuff that At first you tell yourself it's because I don't trust anyone this beautiful and this expensive. Then you realize I'm doing - [Voiceover] Mr. Togawa into smaller pieces for sushi. The lesser grade fish and the really good stuff gets put aside for immediate use in its - I'm experiencing a Look at that, that's sex, man. - [Voiceover] Finally the meal is ready. Michiko, Shinji, and I sit down to eat. - [Michiko] Ganpai. Octopus. - [Voiceover] Our appetizer It's very tender, and of sweet plum sauce. - [Michiko] The skin is melting. - Spectacular. - [Voiceover] As we're Mr. Togawa himself is Pieces of uncooked fish, vinegared rice, and fresh wasabi are While this is the most in the exacting standards it takes a lifetime to of movement necessary to An elite sushi chef like Mr. Togawa trains for more than 12 years. - Oh man. I was going to say I was but no, I'll be ready to die after this. (laughing) Okay, what do we have here? - [Michiko] Flounder. - Shrimp or prawn? - [Shinji] Prawn. - Prawn, and... - [Michiko] Tuna. - Not just tuna, this is otoro. - [Voiceover] Also on the and raw eel. - You can't just explain, you know? How can I explain? - Oh, wow. This, I know what that is. - [Shinji] Sea eel. - That's the sea eel. You're struck dumb. It's almost like you're by talking about it. (speaking Japanese) - I have a glazed expression on my face. It's just pure pleasure. - Thank you very much. - Now would you like to do Three years? - I wouldn't do that. (speaking Japanese) - [Voiceover] Although I generous offer, he still had on the menu. - I'm ready to die now. (laughing) I will have lead a full and rich and satisfied life at this point. (speaking Japanese) - Japanese people consider so pouring the sake shows his his hospitality. It's very important in Japanese culture. And also you pour it back. It's your turn to pour it back. - Thank you, thank you very much. - [Voiceover] The religious There's something There's a sense of solemnity here. There's no nonsense, Nothing fake about it. - Church of food, it's - Ganpai, cheers. - [Voiceover] Very cold iced sake. You get that ice cream - You feel it on your tongue first, then it works its way up into your brain. - Thank you. - Thank you for one of the most incredible dining experiences of my life. I will be always grateful. - Me too. - [Voiceover] Leaving I'm feeling that my New York has missed the boat. - For us, restaurants You pull in, you fill up, and you move on, preferably as quickly as possible. The idea of volume was much &quot;Did you have a good meal?&quot; &quot;Yeah, they gave me all That's not a... That's really silly. You know, bulk. It explains - [Voiceover] Speaking of It happens that I have come to visit a sumo wrestling stable, the gym and home of the team. (bell ringing) - Here I come, and I I exude ignorance. - [Voiceover] Watching this is like being lead Sumo is serious business in Japan. Something outsiders just They're not kidding in there. These guys are really going at each other. Some of them get tossed out of the ring and come rolling right at me. I don't want one of these They'll break me like a day old biscuit. The feeling of being I mean, what do these guys eat? I'm interested in what Chanko, it's called. I'm thinking, well, how - Must mean bulk food, high on starch. I had this idea of, they're sitting around eating pasta and beef, - [Voiceover] I'm very to Mr. Tomatsuna, of Tomatsuna Stable. Tomatsuna is a former champion himself. Today he is an oyakata, which is the boss of the sumo stable. All of the wrestlers live on premises. What they eat, when they eat, these are all rigorously who completely controls their lives. He cooks for them, looks their health, in a quest - He's an old lion, and he pretty much saw curiosity, I think. Nevertheless I'm determined to find out the secret diet of the sumo. - The wrestlers have a tremendous power. The food that he selects must reflect the need for this power. (speaking Japanese) - He says people tend to think that a sumo wrestler is just fat. That is not true. Actually they need the balance of energy, and the balance of weight. - Do all the wrestlers learn to cook as part of their training? - [Michiko] That's right. - They behaved much in the if you'd walk into my kitchen Fiercely protective. - [Voiceover] It's one-pot cooking. A lot of guys living The food is not about just We're not here building blubber. - I was clearly wrong in this. He's looking for balance of - [Voiceover] Unfortunately at this kitchen, anyway. Let's go to take a trip to experience the sumo diet firsthand. After a full day of watching I'm definitely ready to eat like one. - We're gonna have a chanko You hungry? - I'm starving. - Excellent. - [Voiceover] Chanko is and the specialty of Immediately it becomes like a sumo isn't in the It's a nabe, like a big soup, a big boiling pot of broth Everybody adds something. You add things in stages. - Originally the chanko but now they cook everything. - [Voiceover] Beef, mushrooms, green vegetables, tofu, onions, radishes, egg, rice. You can use it all, and we are. - And of course it's like a in order to provide a which is the wrestlers. You can see the taste of the - [Voiceover] I really had One of the first surprises Sort of like a living dish, proceeds and the subject matter changes, the character of the It can start out fairly light, but you can add stronger ingredients, and of course as it cooks down, - I like that. It is spicy. It's really good, it's really hearty, and I really like the style of cooking, and the style of eating. I We all sit around, we all put stuff in, we all take stuff out, I think Michiko and Shinji Their whole countenance has changed during the course of this meal. - I feel honored to be served. For friendship, for serving chanko. - It's fun. I like this. - [Voiceover] For such an almost cult-like closed society of sumo, their food is perhaps the most accessible for the everyday American. I can see chanko taking (laughing) (grunts, coughs) - I know how he feels, - [Voiceover] From the of Edomae sushi, to the in a 24 hour period. Eating my way around the world. It would be intimidating, I think, if it just wasn't so exciting. I think it's gonna take about