Entanglement is a phenomena involving about the relationship between those say stuff like entanglement means that each other no matter how far apart In some ways it's more prosaic. There's a really have entanglement between them. Just ask, does you have entanglement. For example, a property called spin. Spin is about the And this one might be spinning state entangled? No. And that's because doesn't in any way depend on the state that the state of this electron is up without On the other hand, Imagine I have them is heads and the other one is to show you what happens i'm going to spin to separate them Now can you tell me Well this coin you could say is heads as as long as this one is heads. Does this count uncertainty. There actually is a real state for and it actually would be possible to say, It just happened that we didn't know to talk about the state in terms of the other and classical uncertainty, even when it's this. doesn't count as entanglement. To understand this, let's get rid of one about superposition. So the state of this like this and it would be down if the spin is like this, then it's both up plus down. you know that I'm just missing out They ought to actually be in here, but for now, superposition of up, and down at the same different from having a coin and doing a flip the coin was in that state of heads or tails But with this quantum state, it's because of uncertainty that we we know exactly what the state is. It is for the rest of this video, we're going to the kind of uncertainty you get because you Or because you flipped two coins like that. We're going to assume that we things are going to be in superposition. Imagine state. Then imagine another electron comes So its state is up plus down at the same unfortunately, no, it's not. And we it possible to talk about the state of here we can see that it is. The state The state of the second object is up plus down, when we were talking about this state, and So this still isn't entanglement. Alright, some actual entanglement. Now this decides to change its state depending It says it does not want to be seen that if it sees the other electron On the other hand, if it sees this electron the state is entangled. I'm going to rewrite Either this one is up, and this one is down, actually, because the original electron was it must be the case that now both of same time. This is now entanglement because this electron You would have to reference the You would have to say well It's doing when the other one is up and it's up when of those in superposition You might Can't I just say that this electron Well no, you can't, because of this. fly off. If both you and your friend truly these electrons and they are separate states then you're going to get some So suppose that I put this electron into a Stern Gerlach machine is a is it up or is it down? And an object that's in a will 50 percent of the time return up. Then somewhere far away, my friend is to their electron. They're going to put it 50, 50 chance that it will come to up or states that were independent of each other, one will collapse to down After that 50 percent chance of also collapsing to down notes and you both realize that both of your This electron did not want to do the same thing thing. So this result is a contradiction. You the true state of these two electrons was. share a state. It's not possible to talk about What happens with the measurements? Well, this electron. This electron has two options. can be down when the other one is up. Both of happening because it's an equal So let's say our friend does the measurement happens to the quantum state? It needs So this is certainly gone. But now you can see possibility anymore. Up for the second electron is And now the new state of our two point out one last interesting thing about these two electrons were entangled for one was doing without referencing that one. But Now you absolutely can talk about what was to do a follow up experiment on this one will always be down. And really this ran into the other electron. It has its own got rid of the entanglement in this entangled don't need to stay entangled the connection that existed between it seems that information from one particle Let's go back to the case of the two coins. I'm going to shuffle them up and now I from each other. Let's say that I send them to at my coin and I find its heads. So what I've just found out that the other coin, even is Tails. Have I just managed to send the other side of the universe, in no time at being sent. What actually happened was that, This was heads and this was tails and their I just thought so because of my own ignorance. a joint distribution. That's all. When these two each other. In reality, this one always had its So me finding out the identity affect that coin. It only affects my own but the entanglement situation is quite of these two electrons. I've just rearranged So the blue bits are corresponding to this to this electron. this electron here, which I'll when the first electron is up, the second one then this electron is up. And these two Let's now do a similar experiment that very far away from each other. Do these even though this one is super super far while they're both in this state, Until, that is, that someone comes If they measure this electron and, let's then we already said that the state collapses. to this electron? It went from being in a electron was up and up if the other electron The actions of the measurer over here are electron all the way over there. All right, this video. I know that entanglement is not don't expect that the first time that you watch I do recommend that Going back and trying to covered. If you'd like more practice though, then where we will be doing tutorials, um, going The link for that is in the description, but First we saw that entanglement is nothing if we had these two coins where they were but we just didn't know which one was uncertain about the state of each of these Instead, for an entangled state, about what the state is. But even so, you can't the other. The example we used here was a state The second one is down, and if the It's not possible to describe this state just learned that if you did a up down measurement on correlated with the outcome for that one. and vice versa. But not only that, the So it goes from being this, to just being about the mathematics of entanglement in really want you to be able to pick paradox or Bell's experiments or the proof that of light in quantum mechanics and be able to