As far as I can remember, - Who is it? music always seemed to be Electro was not rock, rap and pop were and each genre seemed Moreover, I remember fans of a specific music genre often For example, rock fans never really But in the early 2000s, by mixing different genres and The artist I'm going to talk about today is diversifying rap that it became one of the most Considered by some as by others as a problematic today we dive into the universe of a creator His career includes great hits, some controversy, and an unwavering determination This is the story of Kanye West, the most creative rap Yes, today we are going but maybe not in the I want to talk about his without clouding the Which is why I have deliberately and gathered them So if that's the part you're For all the others... Before starting this video, you I am always supported and today's sponsor is... HOLY. HOLY sells ice teas that can be seen as It's very simple: you have shakers, bottles and It is greener than cans, healthier, because aromas and but also better to drink than a soda in ice teas for example. There are 3 ranges: ice tea, hydration and energy, with a bunch of I mostly use the energy range. It's perfect for a day's And the must-have it tastes good! So yes, if there's no taurine, Crystallized caffeine. Also called Newcaff. It it allows you to be focused for a I have two codes for you. SEB5 gives you a 5 euros (only on your 1st order) and SEB gives you 10% For Black Week, Holy is offering an original competition. When you place an order on their site, you're automatically entered into a contest to win a fire truck converted into a van. Just don't ask. It just exists. It's happening that week. I've put a link in the description Note that 10 euros of purchases equals one ticket and that the winner will be contacted by e-mail. Good luck to you all! All links in description, Have a wonderful video, everyone! It all starts here in the state of Georgia, Atlanta. Donda Williams, an and Ray West, photojournalist, are about to have a Ray is very politically engaged. He's a member of the Afro-American At the time, he worked at the and is one of the first black men The two fall in love and As a reminder, this where having a child without So the two lovebirds get before giving birth born in 1977, and named Kanye Omari West. Kanye is a nice, but an event is about Donda and Ray but maybe a little too quickly. 3 years after Kanye's birth, his Donda West packs her bags They leave Atlanta for Chicago where Donda just found a From then, she will far away from Ray West, And Kanye's father won't be in For many, it could have but not for Donda. She is a strong woman, whose mental strength is only This makes the bonds between and the two will remain extremely This is the birth of their very Donda noticed that her He began drawing at 4, but with Kanye, it's different. He has a real need to express He wrote his first poems at 5. Thanks to his mom, he goes to church, where he He loves it. Can you see the pattern? It goes like this: poetry, music... Rap. So he starts this musical He is only 8 years old and he discovers something that will In the 80s in the a culture is in full There are archives of At the time, he also starts composing with synthesizers, beat boxes, He is helped by some like No I.D. and Dug Infinite. How did the Kanye West That was my mom and his mom. They knew each other. Yeah, my mom is a teacher. So, you know, she comes home like, So crazy. So he's like 14 when that happens. He's an annoying 14-year-old kid? Absolutely. He was rapping at the time or He was rapping. Okay, okay. He just wanted to At that moment, but he's not just toying No, he is actually super good. So good that as a teen, here and there to Always with the help Already at the time, Kanye doesn't He just does it. In the 90s in the United States, a gangsta rap. Tupac, Biggie, Snoop, lyrics about gang wars, scams, with a lot of ego trips. It's a very rough where rappers boast about But Kanye had a he's not in a gang, he's still a teenager so that's not at all He's about a more melodic rap, with samples of soul and jazz. At the time, the Native Tongues They are a collective which brings All these bands are and offer an alternative musical with smoother sounds very personal, even and soul samples. All these artists are the precursors because their their texts were And that's what This New York scene will That's where he In high school, Kanye keeps producing songs inspired by all these At home, Donda supports He is a straight-A student, and she is super happy for him. But she remains a professor so she urges him So that's how Kanye grew up. Besides all that, sales assistant at GAP. It actually matters! It's his first experience in fashion, even though he's Anyway, my video, my rules! But you'll see, this However, his goal at the But making a living off music... is tough. But with rap music, at that And with such that's enough to scare a mother. So, Kanye gets a scholarship for the American Academy in order so study... painting. And why not? He continues to compose selling them to rappers, it's not enough for him. Kanye had the time to cook so he steps out of producing 8 songs for This project doesn't really Sure, there are lots of But it feels as if he's not It's Kanye's first step in music, and this is simply The beat is around 80-90 BPM, which is the gold standard for 90s rap. There also are record scratches, a technique that Kanye Also, Grav is an underground He isn't the guy who's However, it is thanks for that to give up on his other projects and So he abandoned his studies Because he's confident. Rightfully so. 2 years later in 1998, with a production company: He wants to release and reveal his but this is not He's going to work with a rapper Jermaine Dupri with Snoop Dogg, Jay-Z, Mariah Carey, Warren G... For a first album, When it's released, it becomes 3rd place on the Billboard 200. The album goes platinum less It is clearly one of the But what's interesting is that Kanye managed And I'm not talking about a He produced the project's intro, featuring a heavyweight: Nas. And this one step takes Kanye to a With this track, he now proving that he is able to Then, Kanye is going to form a group with his friends. Arrowstar, JLC and Timmy G: the Go Getters. Without even a label, World Records Holder. With this first project, Kanye finds Because he's not just composing. He is in charge of the artistic This is what we call a It is a behind-the-scene job, Please check it out. Any great musical a great music director! Contrary to his last Kanye can be more Sure, it's still very without pop or industrial The drums are simple, but he plays He also doodles around with Finally, he modifies some I'm telling you that because it's which he'll use in most Those are the first stones, the And that's super nice and What problem? Well, It is a very niche album, even today, and I mean... By the way, you guys The album sounds like it was which might be boring, but I think it's always interesting Anyway, this first album is good But it is more than enough to With the achievement of a platinum record and the release of his first project Kanye is building experience He now feels ready to take and is on the verge of becoming As I told you, Kanye He dreams of a scene that A city where artists go New York. Not long after his leaves his family home Donda would have liked but she trusts him. She believes in her son and she's convinced he will become Anybody does something that it's gotta pay off. Can't go there and - Isn't that true? The main thing is getting to do But you know what? I was I was gonna say to you, Kanye, You are down-to-earth But you've got a you come up a little arrogant even But it'd be important the giant looks in the Once in New York, First, he buys a flat with the He can also thank is going to hire Some context. Around the 2000s, Roc-A-Fella in the US rap scene. In any case, it's the simply because it this period's most Jay-Z and his team So he lets him produce for a Like Alicia Keys, Mos Def, DMX, But also Janet Jackson, and a lot of other hit monsters. And yes, that's how It's never enough You also have to be in the right place, And so it took Kanye 4 to go from being a producer to produce for the greatest artists of the That's already a super He now makes a living making but he's just another But among these new productions, a particular one is gonna As you can guess, this is 2001 The sixth and now classic For a producer at the time, produce for FIVE Jay-Z But Kanye doesn't just produce: he also adds extra And I think that Obviously, he has been rapping He's not known for it yet, but this is the first time the public And as a producer, thanks to his unique So let me tell you that with The Very, very well. He's artistically accomplished, his tunes aged like fine wine, he's doing well money-wise... I mean, at the time, he can sell ONE A few years before that, So yeah, he's stepping-up. But... there's a but. Since his album with Kanye has a dream that He is now known within but only as a beat maker. And you get it now: Kanye where he can sing, use his So, from 2001 onwards, what is going to be the most Kanye definitely came to But his goal through was above all to sign Because yes, whether in his car or backstage Kanye raps. All the time, everywhere. He even does open he is completely He feels that he can improve his art by When it comes to seizing opportunities, He bangs on every door. He throws meetings calls labels or record Above all, he wants to be I'm gonna play you some stuff. When I see this, I'm you need to be extra confident. After the Netflix this video was And Roc-A-Fella their reaction by saying it wasn't ... but at least the 10th time! So out of context, this girl exact scene... NINE TIMES! I think it's funny. And I think the label's defense When you think about It would have been easier to say that it happened once, But here, it's so bad! Because you already have But if you do that 10 Wow. Crazy stuff. But after 10 attempts there hasn't been a single &quot;OK, we'll help you.&quot; That's why it's worse! They just admitted: &quot;yes, &quot;At least 10 No, that means you The important lesson here is that So what's the problem? The labels mostly want to At the time, gangsta rap still so for middle-class Kanye, who raps about his his will to make It's hard to fit in. He's not a gangster. He just wants to unfold But for the industry at the and no one truly He's just too different. My mother is an English teacher. She used to cultivate me and instill a lot of s**t in me My father is a Christian marriage councilor I can't sell to you that I'm gonna come just because that's what's I don't give a f**k I do this album, it's You need to understand if I fu**ing brick, I can still eat, I can still So I'm gonna do my Kanye continues to when Damon Dash, one of He signs him up as an artist, but still unconvinced. It was a tactical move. They didn't want him to so they offered him a contract But it doesn't matter. Kanye maybe the way he did it but that's what he wanted. You'll who believes in himself! So he keeps making demos. But he Until an event changes his plans. It's been two weeks it's the 23rd of October, 2002, and his label sends him to Los He goes there, and it pisses him off. he has a rapper contract, but everyone still sees him and he has no time to So he keeps he raps in front of and other artists in But none of them are That evening, he leaves He gets in his car and A few meters The fatigue from his workload and A car cuts him off, Kanye falls asleep on the wheel. Hip-hop producer, Kanye West, was injured in a car crash in West Hollywood LA, The shock is so violent that and lands in another car taken urgently to a Miraculously, he only and a broken jaw The doctors place; He often compares A few days after the when he hears a a singer who is This piece is called : Through The Fire. High on painkillers, Kanye is very bored in his bed. He has nothing else to do and starts thinking of He is instantly inspired Through The Wire. A reference to Chaka Khan's song and to the &quot;barbed Two weeks later, his He samples the and records a song with the It goes like this. We can hear on that he still has the wire in Once out of the hospital, he will In his text, he talks about the difficult but also about his Even with a fractured This first clip was in Kanye's friend, who has been and who added these And at the time, a song is illustrated like this. Miles away from with pictures of wealth, No, nothing like that. This is a clip with polaroids, there are no It's just him, his life, his And that was completely It's so much more It's way more personal. And when Kanye now everyone agrees: yes, Kanye is really different. It's inevitable. And that's how this accident, which will lead him towards When he plays the song things have changed. The beat, the story the mumbled lyrics They are convinced to finally And guess what? He is too. For Kanye, the wheels Roc-A-Fella records And Through The Wire will be But just to be safe, because they The label says: &quot;Release a mixtape first, with your demos and So we can test the waters. Yes, we believe in But we never know, That mixtape is It contains lots of studio demos, Anyway, the Bosses at Roc-A-Fella Kanye is solid enough to And the audience is Kanye West's signature is to pitch samples make them faster and I'm telling you imagine you're Chaka Khan and you hear your voice She doesn't understand. &quot;Why do I sound like a chipmunk?&quot; I gave you my What's going on?! But on September 30, 2003, after all those events, Kanye And five months later, The College Dropout. The project is a retrospective of all his struggles It's such a bowl of fresh air because apart made of soul samples, the lyrics also stand out. Most rap artists talked about ego-trips, success, violence, drugs, etc. Kanye simply does He openly talks the frustrations, he even uses irony and humor to address some subjects. When other rappers talk they link it with rebellion, with a When Kanye mentions he questions the and mocks the social obsession which he finds a bit absurd. This is just an example, but it feels as if he and as a result, he feels The album cover is also an anomaly A basketball mascot on a bench! In rap at the time, to pose in a bear And behind this mascot, there is a whole reflection on alone and misunderstood. Kanye had to practice fight against the and work until exhaustion for this project You're going to make it, and when Still keep the same hunger. As long as you keep that, the conduit between clear for those energies you're going to always A year after its release, The That is more than At a time when everything, or almost, The album is nominated in 10 and wins two of them: Best rap song, thanks to this title: And best rap album, beating his Right now is my Thanks to the fans, thanks to that accident, thanks to God, thanks to Roc-A-Fella, my mother, everyone that's helped me, I plan to celebrate. I plan to celebrate and scream and pop champagne because I'm at the With this album, the whole and finds out that rap And when I say &quot;different&quot;, I mean it in the broader sense: the symbols, the Because, music look one bit like a Sure, he wears a few but his real style mostly colorful polos over shirts and those neat We're miles away with their bandanas, caps, His symbols, his music makes him an oddball in 2004. He talks to a broader audience, and because of that, is going to become the best-selling Kanye just something really cool. And once he's done it, After this success, he doesn't want Instead he takes some time namely in Japan, where he Once there, he's mind-blown. He discovers a new fashion, contemporary art and above all minimalism, which will At that time, he creator of the brand Bape, and artist Takashi Murakami, He quickly comes to All that feeds him He returns to the US create his very first Kanye partners up with a few creators, Willo Perron, Matt Virgil Abloh or Kim Jones. KAWS made the logo, Nigo We can say that this at the right time, with the right people. Those guys' respective They were potential Avengers. Pastelle cannot go wrong, guys! And you know what? After showing a few the Pastelle and no product is truly sold. It may have been too but Kanye found a lot has a lot of projects but it's time for him Back to his notebooks, He's finally ready to... WRITE HIS LEGEND Now, people expect The first album was a revelation, so the 2nd album The question is whether he is rap's new prodigy, or more of a one-hit-wonder, So, for his second opus, He invests a lot of money and for more than a year, he works He knows that his audience and he chooses the a path that will become He decides to John Brion, composer for film music. Why? What does it have Well, it's exactly where Kanye He wants to tell a story and he wants his melodies to In the studio, he keeps working In this kind of huge lab with sounds that have He didn't call any label he just started working So we thought: &quot;ok, we'll let &quot;But we have to be creative.&quot; &quot;This energy, this baby When his 2nd album comes out in 2 Grammy Awards in 2006, a triple platinum certification, a complete critical and Everyone agrees that Kanye West He has been rewarded has confirmed that he The amount of hit songs this This is only his 2nd project! Anyway. By the way, the album also had called &quot;Late Orchestration&quot;. It was one of the first albums to It works. It's new, it's fresh, everyone loves it. The audience is on board. What's amazing his music evolves a lot, while remaining extremely good. At the time, Kanye is He was that and he used it to Back then, the other rapper ... is this guy. Those two guys but they are two 50 cents is 100% gangsta rap. He was abandoned his stage name was he sold drugs at 12, and he survived a shooting. And then you've got Kanye, who comes from uses his real name, raps about more They have NOTHING in common. By constantly distancing Kanye annoys some people, which is a good sign! Obviously, at this time, And that's okay, If Kanye West sells on September 11th, I'll no longer write music. The new 50 Cent album sells during its 1st week. Kanye's 3rd album, Graduation, sells for 957,000 physical I just think it's something It gives the fans a reason to buy And I mean, 50 Cent, he's a pretty intimidating guy So I'm not really trying I just want to put out I think you'll kick his ass! I think that too! Please, 50, do not retire Please don't retire, please! I really like your Kanye West wins the match Against a competitor Because being 50 Cent's rival is far from easy. Many artists had and ended up losing Kanye was clever because the same day to see who could sell the most. But he never responded That's not what he's after. Sure, he's competitive has a he knows that all that is Are you nervous? He's I'm never nervous! If I I'm here! I'm next to 50! Next to you, right here! And my big brother it's a big moment for me! When this album comes out, the He closes the bear cub trilogy with more poppy with more voices This is seen in the album's created by Takashi Murakami, the famous Japanese during his trip to Japan. What can I say... End of 2007, Kanye is killing it in rap, in music, in the whole industry. And partly because Kanye becomes mainstream worldwide. That is around the and he really was a bug in I didn't understand the We all called him &quot;Kenny West&quot;! Don't pretend you You guys are a bunch of actors! As for his music, I It was so new compared and every song he had was a true masterclass. Compared to young Kanye trying to get a contract, when you see where he is It's a very nice success story. At least for the moment. Because as you know, life AT A LOSS During the MTV the audience and a new aspect of During the award for the jury rewarded for their song We Are Your Kanye West was also nominated goes on stage and claims that This video cost a I had Pam Anderson, I was jumping across canyons! Now you're gonna have to share! Oh, hell no! If I don't win, It's nothing against you, I've never seen your video, But hell no! Love you all. The audience and the No one really understands Like, it's okay dude, People start wondering: it is his ego, is this him being highly competitive? Or has he gone completely Nobody knows. And it's 2006, at that time, it wasn't obvious for anyone. He ended up apologizing but what's certain is that who will never judge him and who will always support him. We have not mentioned her for a while, While her son's Donda had become Since her early she is fully involved With him, she even created an association fighting against also known as &quot;college dropout&quot;. Kanye wanted to give back all so getting her involved in his businesses She will do all this until a date that will resonate when his mother following an aesthetic surgery gone wrong. Kanye is 30 years old and all of a sudden, he The rapper Kanye West and other celebrities to remember his mother. Donda West died earlier this month The last time I saw her, we had a dinner at Hakkasan, which I think she knew that and she just wanted to give me And she was asking me about my And she said, you know, so many students, And the problem is, as soon as they do when they're two years their parents clap. Exactly. And she just looked at Don't clap. I didn't know we were going to lose her. And she told me, she said, thank you for the times where, we came to performances, and this has really You know, she would... Take a minute. We'll take a minute. But you know, she's here The end of 2007 will be a After losing the one who he cancels his marriage Kanye is not doing well at all. And it's time for him to take a break. But unfortunately, his new Like his tour, Glow in the Dark. He goes back on but everything is still too fresh. Especially when you that you wrote for someone When his tour is over, Kanye takes a He goes to Hawaii And does what he does best to try and get better: music. After 3 weeks of composition one of the most important albums 808 and Heartbreak. This album draws its name from his intense heartaches a drum machine that he in particular for its deep and bouncy basses, Once again, this is a The sounds are You can hear the With the use of auto-tune, it feels that Kanye West without a heart bringing us down with him in his endless fall. This album is one of his It was a revolution, because he opened a doorway in rap and showed to a whole generation that you could talk about be introspective, be sensitive. The album broke down genres by mixing pop, rap, electro... Somehow, it showed could be something cool, because deep down, I mostly wanted to remind you not to underestimate in culture. Though this album shows an tells the story of a man who he broke up and he feels lonely. Well... Kanye is hurting. This project is key, because Kanye In 2009, and we have to Once again, he goes this time at the It's the Taylor Swift episode. I'll wrap it quick, I think we all Taylor Swift is about to receive her Kanye grabs the microphone and says that Beyonce's clip is way better, then is You've probably seen that guy's audacity, people's reactions... To my eyes, those NOT funny. I'm really happy for you, I'm gonna let you finish. But Beyonce has got one One of the best videos of all time! Big controversy everywhere, in the US, It got so big that even President publicly declared: &quot;She's getting her award... Why did he do that? He's a jackass.&quot; Yup, that's how it was. And that's because a huge lack of respect, where others consider that there and that Kanye and express his feelings In any case, it is the 2nd time that he does that But his struggle against the isn't that recent. His very first real In 2005, during he publicly criticized the lack of help from the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Let's be honest, when there's always a little oh yeah, . And subtle, but in many ways is the lasting damage to the survivor's will to The destruction of the spirit of the may have been the George Bush doesn't At the time, this speech triggered But with such a speech, which was rare at the time, Kanye received huge support who saw his in speech how black families were treated And I mean, look at George Bush doesn't In the past few days... I'll never find this OK, enough of this, let's go The year is 2009, and after the success and this borderline Kanye decides to to open up to new We saw it already: He truly is passionate about it. And like anyone who he goes... for an internship. With his friend Virgil Abloh, he arrives at Italian to understand the ins and and improve his skills. And I'm not even kidding, After 808, Kanye and Yup. Making coffee, photocopies, It was a real contract, they were interns at Fendi! At Fendi, Virgil and grows even even further develop Me and Virgil are in Rome, giving designs to and we're getting our Brought the leather jogging And they said no. How many motherf***ers have you Following the internship, he We all know about it today, But long before that, Kanye Yes, we tend to forget it, and that's just a reminder, when Yeezy was with Nike! Oh and by the way, something pretty Kanye West is the first non-athlete And together, they the Air Yeezy 1 and the Air Yeezy 2. It's simple. When these they just broke everything. Design level, They were perfectly consistent Today, some of these pairs sell That's how rare, how sought even 15 years later! During this same period, he receives a proposal design sneakers with Louis Vuitton. In the end, he will not and nearly ten different So during this time, even if he's not in his music is through the roof and his venture into fashion is successful because both in sportswear/streetwear and luxury brands. And that's a feat of strength. OK, so what about music? There's a recipe now. He goes to Hawaii once again (it's part of his this time to create one of his My Beautiful Dark Twist Fantasy. I'm sorry guys, I can't We need a little more. This album is almost and expands Kanye's It grants Kanye a new status: for his fans and for many rap, he then becomes Nominated in 7 he wins &quot;Best Rap Album&quot;, but also wins an award The critics, the the album is simply huge. Nothing to say. Such albums are super One in a career, even. It's my personal fav, I think. Well, don't wanna make There are still This project comes with clips, with unprecedented I'm thinking of Power, or Monster, But Kanye also directed a to illustrate his This 34-minute film tells a creature that Kanye takes her in and But, misunderstood and rejected, she realizes that she With this short film that like fashion, cinema and music, Kanye expresses his own struggle whether in the or in society in general. If you wonder why there are it's because they were protege of Andy Warhol. The covers are inspired by And one version is was banned. That's all. After such a project, Kanye could have taken a But nope! He's gonna do the Kanye wants to keep and only a few months later, with his pal Jay-Z, Watch The Throne. Is there a lot to say Yes. It's all going crazy fast. It only took him a few months! Like the previous one, this project The tunes got a bit old, The funny thing is that this but even if you you obviously Above all, it's a common album with one of Kanye's Beyond being Jay-Z is also the guy allowing him become known. When you listen to this project, you can tell the collab isn't a and the label's big boss. Keep in mind that at no one saw a future for Even in Roc-A-Fella! So to see this collab with Jay-Z feels a bit like revenge. And beyond that, they have a similar vision, and they enjoy making As for the rest, the tunes And of course, if you A few years later, he stated that he wanted to win back the public's heart after the Taylor Swift drama and his social media blunders. Of course, his but when it comes to music, uniqueness and, more globally, art, he's back for good. OK, at the time, Kanye also starts Or he writes stuff like: &quot;Maybe I couldn't be skinny and tall, but I'll settle for being the greatest But with his recent releases, Very few artists of his era His creativity and creative I want to add one more he's in his absolute prime, because also releases a Cruel Summer, that deserves to be mentioned and that people One thing is sure, at the time, he is of the most publicized Of course, he becomes a who think he's too arrogant, and start discrediting More later about all those Kanye's absolute prime, his success, well, it doesn't end here. I MISS THE OLD YEEZUS. The year is now 2013, an era marked by a phenomenon: &quot;commercial&quot; music. Kanye West is about which is the opposite He's cooking something, inspired by Chicago acid house and industrial. Yeezy goes full Kenny West with an experimental album totally different from The name: Yeezus. This project is his sixth album in a row to be ranked Acclaimed by the Kanye West continues and keeps his reputation by coming up with something new with every new project. As for the dramas, this project will not necessarily He's proclaiming to be a god, and puts religious which make his case worse. He gradually assumes the role of the which, paradoxically, fuels Wherever he goes, whatever he says, his words become controversial and he becomes Hey, good morning Kanye. Shut the f*** up. How's it going, Kanye? Don't say anything to me, man. Relax. What do you mean, relax? What do you mean?! What do you mean, &quot;relax&quot; ? - We're here to support you, though. Don't take another Don't take another I just got here, homie! Don't take no photos! Stop it! And this bad reputation, he talks about with the song Bound 2. Kanye becomes withdrawn to become a new Yeezus, more arrogant, ... more problematic. An event in his life will force On June 15, 2013, he becomes a dad for the first from his relationship With this birth, Kanye since his mother is gone. He has different different goals. He tries to be less self-centered and to live for someone So he steps out for almost two years. He comes back in 2015 in collaboration with Paul McCartney. Kanye West claims singing those lyrics. And this text is actually written talking to North, his daughter. As if she had to send him a message. The result is a beautiful song, filled with emotion. Following this, Kanye with Rihanna and I know some of I don't get you guys. It's only my What's your problem It's really good, such OK, let's talk fashion again. Nike and Kanye have for their They end up Kanye then receives for new shoes collabs. Including one with Nike's Nearly fifteen new each with their unique design. Kanye breaks the becomes a very For the German brand, Yeezy yields about every year. That's about 10% of the It's important to be Contrary to his Kanye gets royalties Well, today, it all Hold on, hold on, Korea, you have Say &quot;F**k Adidas!&quot; Say &quot;F**k Adidas!&quot; Let's come back For the moment, This same year, Kanye will from the School of for his contributions to music, fashion and popular culture. So yes, of course it's an but it's a cool story because he finally gets His mom would be proud, she that had always dreamed of it. You know, the song I've always You never did it. - I forgot the words! But now you're not you're talking about His dream is a world dream. How do we help one another? And this is why Kanye West is deserving of this Honorary Doctorate I felt my nerves a bit. And I don't feel The nerves of humility. And modesty when being honored. And it's these Floyd to prove what I've Whether it's the cosign of and saying it's okay he Or the New York Times cover. Or the Time &quot;Most And now, a doctorate at the Art Institute of Chicago. When I was giving a lecture at when I went on that mission apparel, film, performance, it would have been easier if I could have said I had a degree at the Time goes by, the year is 2016, and Kanye announces SWISH. Actually no, not SWISH. It will be called WAVES. Ah no, he changes and so it shall be We don't know why he changed the Maybe because of the But nobody really knows why he chose this title. It allegedly refers who inspired his career, like Pablo Picasso, or Saint Paul, pronounced The project title isn't the After the release, Kanye changing the lyrics, or sometimes by removing stuff, even after the album He explained that he was ever-transforming, like an artist that keeps even after the exhibition. Unlike the album Yeezus, that was about new sounds, he now tries to change the and even listened The Life of Pablo is meant not frozen in time. A track you like can disappear and make way to another, etc. As for the album cover, it's the first time that his buddy Virgil Abloh It's also the first that Kanye West's face is featured on an album cover. And he is not alone, he's at a wedding, next to his mother. I went through the whole internet: with all three of them together. OK, there might be another one. But that's it. He also mentions his father in one of his tracks: PT.2 Musically, this is, yet Kanye positioned himself with a ton of collabs. Chance the Rapper, Ty Dolla Sign, Metro Sia, Chris Brown, the list is simply endless. This album is about a new Kanye, who talks about his influence and his dreams as the But in a song, he takes a step back when it comes to his status. This new status is what before a new event completely Kanye West is on tour to and he starts losing Stop, stop. Lots of people tonight Because you've been lied to. Jay-Z I know you've got killers, please don't send Just call me! I've been sent here to give y'all my truth even at the risk of my own life. You know why? Because you were by Mark Zuckerberg, Obama wasn't allowed to do this. Every night, he gets a little crazier. He settle scores with Jay-Z, Mark Zuckerberg, Beyonce, no one understands This same year, Kanye will be forcefully of the UCLA hospital after a major psychotic crisis. At that moment, the one of the most is in fact suffering I HATE BEING BIPOLAR. When he leaves the psychiatric The diagnosis is made: Kanye West suffers and also has strong Concretely, bipolar disorders are variations in someone's too intense, or/and too long. The affected person can express joy through then fall into a state of deep Kanye also has psychosis, making him very paranoid in his sleep, his peace And that illness has been with him forever. Since childhood. He had never been medicated despite strong signs and the world learns the We never had therapists There was no approach I think it's good that when I had my mom didn't fully medicate me, because I might The reality of Kanye West man who has always been in Faced with this situation, he steps away from big US cities and goes into exile in the Wyoming Valley, a place known for its This period of his life inspire him to write and Ye. Bipolarity is the major as well as in his life. Even the album cover reads: &quot;I hate being bipolar, it's awesome.&quot; In the first track, I Talked About he tells about his how bipolarity affected his The themes are deeply which is seen as one of the most And on June 8th 2018, 7 days after the release of Ye, he releases... this. Together, Kanye and Kid Cudi Man... Nobody can do it They just released an album that's The two artists, who have talk about what and how they feel about it. Kids See Ghosts is the stylistic opposite of Ye, that came out a week before. Only one week elapsed between these two projects. Only seven days. We go from one in only a week. This puts us in the This is the role of artists: open our minds and help us understand Whether it is it's a possible interpretation of that release timing. The Wyoming session is Within a month, he produced 5 albums, I mean, talk about productivity! I think Wyoming-Kanye might be a little slept on and that it was a major Wait, it's not that easy. Maybe I'm going too fast. But one thing is for sure, 2018 isn't even over for Kanye West. He returns to Chicago, the city where he grew up, and works on the project He ends up not but his time with Chance will Chance was planning about themes like At that time, Kanye did He believed in God, but not in Jesus, or He mainly believed in But after a few studio and a few deep talks, Kanye goes back to his roots and rediscover his Kanye is inspired. He leaves Chicago for Uganda and starts working But... We know Kanye has a plan. For him, it's unthinkable to release an in any way to something Are there any worshippers in This is the day that And we've come For his project, choir director Jason White and produce for a gospel group: The Sunday Service Choir. When you say you you think about this: Or maybe this: Except that this is a From January 2019, this group performs excepted for Friday when Kanye releases Jesus Is King. This Christian rap album isn't critically acclaimed partly because of the between Kanye's ideas or previous speeches he gave. It's still a very which goes on to win and &quot;Best Gospel at the Billboard Music Awards, as well as a Grammy for &quot;Best Contemporary And I'm sorry for always but this is now Kanye's to be at the top of Billboards. At that moment, it's simply... ... a record... ... of like, all time. Shortly after, Kanye officially and helps produce with the band Sunday Service. He is at peace, but It's still blunder with nonsensical He even runs as a candidate for As you probably could have I have decided in 2020, to run for president. Kanye seems lost, the only person who could have is gone, and he hasn't forgotten that. DONDA It's now 2021, and if you've Kanye is working on And this is a special one. It will both be a turning and in his personal life. His relationship known for being very intense, comes to a end This divorce is a He loses the mother and he appears even And when I say &quot;fragile&quot;, I am referring to At the time, medias that Kanye's mental health was No matter the real it is still a difficult Just put yourself in his shoes: you're working on it contains one the most The stakes are huge given the situation. Since his beginnings, Kanye has always managed to but for this one, Even if he seems lonely, he wants to get and involve them in the In full stadiums, he performs previews It looks like a listening party, something quite common in music, but nope. Here, he plays demos and edits them according He's so invested that he sometimes literally to finish his album. He modifies the songs, remixes them, keeps pushing back the album's Some see a perfectionist genius, others a man in desperately trying to through his music. Initially planned in July 2020, it was only a year later that the project You got it now: it's a and will be named &quot;DONDA&quot; This is a deeply personal album. It is dedicated to his mother, with a lot of lyrics but it also evokes the and this project allowed him to Okay, this is a long-ass album. 27 tracks, almost 2 But it was necessary to showcase the full There are samples of soul, Jay-Z, his mentor, is back, there are 808-style and also gospel songs, As for the album cover, it has been criticized a lot. A lot of people without much thought behind it. Originally, several Donda's cover initially featured a Louise Bourgeois. This artist tried to cure through her art. Just like Kanye West. This is not a random choice. The work represents a a color that evokes blood, violence and strong emotions. Kanye West also wore red during the listening parties, and used this work in his promotional posters. Finally, Kanye used But you know what? It may be Fans tried really hard and some discovered a starry sky painted in black. It makes sense, with But it could also In any case, this darkness, sadness, death, or just a plain tribute, echoing Kanye's darkest thoughts since Donda's death. A few months later, Kanye founds a private to which he gives the Donda Academy. The establishment sports and spirituality. Kanye wants to change how by associating his vision mother: teaching and educating. Donda West deeply believed to make it in life. She often said that school allowed The creation of the is a tribute to his mother, and to her love for learning. And the loss of his mother that such projects are not only a tribute, but also a way to At the end of 2021, things go fast for Kanye. He goes through with the death of Virgil Abloh, who died from a cancer The two were very close friends, almost brothers, and they started exploring Shortly after his death, a 20-minute demo using is released on the Internet. In this studio draft, Kanye pays tribute to Virgil in a song entitled Brothers. This freestyle/song and difficult to listen because we really who even ends So yes, not the best period for Kanye. Back to the Donda album. Let's have a closer look at the listening parties, which are very telling of to this project. During the first Kanye appeared in a vast arena, moving alone on This choice emphasizes of being alone around people. During this performance, Kanye almost never and let the music and the The 2nd performance in It staged a small room, evoking the place where Kanye Kanye was surrounded as if his demons were At the end of the show, Kanye rose in the air, a spiritual rise. His third performance Chicago. This might be Kanye's most Kanye recreated his at the center of the stadium. He's going back to his roots. The show even featured a evoking his ex-wife This scene symbolizes rupture and reconciliation. He even invited very like DaBaby or Marilyn Manson, to join him on stage, meaning, in his home, and talk about forgiveness and redemption. At the end, Kanye burned down while staying inside in to symbolize Do you realize, without just saying &quot;look how insanely good he is? If you try to understand the art I swear, it's super interesting, guys. It wasn't just a but a real artistic experience where Kanye embarks It's 100% Kanye West. All the symbolism in his album Donda were there. And looking at the evolution from the first listening you notice that each show stands for one since Donda has been gone. With Donda, it's as though Kanye closes a musical chapter, and also a chapter In a single project. That's not the only Do you remember when I was in a Gap store? In 2020, the brand offers him to have his own clothing line, Yeezy Gap. Gap is trying to make Kanye's as accessible as possible. It was a 10-years contract, but it only lasted for 2 years, And here's why. Kanye West often complained that Gap held and plagiarized his creations There also were that Kanye renovated resulting in the brand asking Then, following a series of Gap announced that Yeezy Gap products. They went all in: they didn't even try Only, Kanye isn't a pushover. A few months later, at Kanye spends 7 ... For this commercial. On the website, a bunch of Yeezy Gap for 20 dollars, way cheaper than and of course, At the time I'm shooting is Kanye West's Donda 2, Donda are unfinished albums, released on Stem Player. The Stem Player is an MP3 player which cost 200 dollars. With it, you could by isolating different tracks, such as voices, bass or drums. Fans can create their For Kanye, it's a new ways and streaming platforms. With the Stem Player, he offers a new way of making each listening unique, like what he tried to do The Life of Pablo. But to be honest... I've got one right here... This shit isn't worth 200$. The sound quality is... You remember the Yup. I can't deny the fact that What's interesting is that Kanye keeps testing new ways to listen to music. He tried something, he bricked, he's trying to change the Either through an evolving album, a stupid-ass MP3 player... Anyway, moving forward. Kanye recently announced an album trilogy in 2 of them were released in 2024: Vultures 1 and 2. The &quot;Vultures&quot; projects, (from the saying are albums based with the music industry, the media, and opportunistic people. Kanye sees himself as They are the vultures, he is the prey, No more religious themes, he focuses on more money, relationships In these albums, Kenny also using it to modify which yet again adds a futuristic Vultures 1 and 2 are but everyone agrees to what Kanye produced before. He really put aside for some reason. The final product lacks depth. He's just rapping That doesn't sound like him, or feel like him. In the song 530, for instance, the voice sample is Whereas the old Kanye West played When you compare the to those of Vultures, there are a whole lot This new role of conductor, leaving production and he simply reproduces instead of bringing something But then, how do I feel like today, he's no longer under he became totally independent and can do whatever he wants. But it might be too much. Because the pressure made him challenge the rules and, somehow, challenge himself in order to create And it worked, because he's So now we globally feel that he became artistically And to play the he probably outsources who try to imitate To no avail. I'm not saying it's bad work, but it doesn't even come close I say that as a fan, I can feel it, and it's disappointing. I'm not saying that's but I'd like to read your because for me, it so maybe if we compare our opinions, Recently on Instagram, he seems to be cooking The sequel is probably coming. Anyway, Vultures isn't a fan-favorite. Kanye's tone is almost cynical, going the extra mile regarding topics where The whole thing and bitter aftertaste. For the first time in his career, nor surprised. We haven't talked about it, but a is cancel culture. Cancel culture an artist. And Kanye is And you may think: that's not very surprising! He has been called as being a problematic personality, So cancel culture, yes, sure, but hurting people and that's a big no, It is time to talk about this and understand for his controversies rather than for his music. HEARTBREAK At the start of his career, Kanye's image was different His music was the and made him far from political opinions When he made his statement George Bush doesn't the public was shocked. No one would have the cool guy, could say something that serious after a natural disaster. Many supported him claiming he was right, but others criticized the statement, simply because they were surprised that But being an artist is And Kanye is... ? Yup, guys. It was a similar approach when he went on stage, to say that Beyonce deserved It was awkwardly done, but it's as if he couldn't in the face of a situation that But things starts to During the promotion he publicly compared or prophets. Everybody says: &quot;who I just told you A GOD! He wants the album name, a portmanteau between his to become his People don't know what to think. Is it a parody of the Or does he actually mean it, is this all about his huge ego? His fans are at a loss. In 2016, all hell breaks loose. After a trip to Paris where was the victim of he has a series of He no longer sleeps peacefully. He cancels his Saint Pablo tour after several controversial aimed at his mentor He is placed in in a psychiatric hospital. From this point on, his image starts to the outside. In 2018, Kanye publicly supported He has the ability to do what To do the impossible. You might remember this picture of him wearing a cap It was very badly People questioned his No one understood how Kanye, who was brought up into a (sure, his father but was still a member how could Kanye far-right politician, with This same year, he stating that slavery was... a choice. You hear about 400 years?! That Things escalate. His statement was heavily and historically inaccurate. He's coming from a place he's a celebrity. Frankly, I'm disappointed, I'm appalled and brother, I am unbelievably hurt. Many times, Kanye tries to explain himself. As an artist, he says that he of a system that He hates being put in a box and owing anything to anyone. According to him, yada yada yada. But we accepted hence the notion of &quot;choice.&quot; OK, Kanye is a very we can get behind that. But dude, why take the It is a choice! Just like when We can make our own reality! We get where he's going, But after those explanations, we don't know whether it's true, because it's downright the He's one of the most well-known a community that has So the public simply His explanation may or maybe it was damage control. But what's certain is that it And above all, And as you probably Kanye's media image Despite all the blunders Kanye decides to run for Is this a joke or is Kanye West serious Sure, he has political but to become president, you need concrete plans And Kanye didn't at least nothing was clear. He talked about a without real ideas without any real plan. Yesterday he announced the which he named, get because &quot;when we win, it's 2 years ago, he was and now he comes up with opposite of Trump's party. We'll deal with world Research, mental One by one. People are confused. They just a see a guy out of My dad wanted to abort me! My mom saved my life! There would have because my dad was too busy! I almost killed my daughter! I almost killed my daughter! In addition, he shares false statements They can control Lebron James, Jay-Z and Beyonce But they can't control me! Ain't no name I won't name. No one was too sure but he ended up killing his Even if I think that few people Let's be completely honest. In 2022, as if all Kanye makes anti-Semitic comments I didn't realize that I could so I read one The definition says: &quot;Making mendacious, demonizing about Jews such a world Jewish conspiracy or This right here is a chart of Universal Studios, 20th CBS, CBS News The red are the at these companies. What I don't understand is that if Jews do then how are we still seeing a He doesn't demonize has doubts about the Holocaust, and says about Hitler: &quot;This man invented highways, the microphone that we can't publicly say that and I'm tired of that. I see good things Every human being has something Especially Hitler. So, OK, Kanye wants to see the best I think there is an for whom we don't because they've It seems logical, so obviously, with It doesn't fly. And it never will. You see why we can Yeah. It's really, really bad. He was widely boycotted Several lawsuits and he lost with Adidas, or Gap. He said: &quot;I can say anti-Semitic things!&quot; &quot;And Adidas can't drop me!&quot; &quot;Now what?&quot; Adidas dropped him immediately! A year later, he issues an apology message Even if he does it's just too late. Too many things have and he already caused Those stories could that the guy is But it's not over. In 2022, there was Kanye showed up at the wearing a &quot;White Some context. This slogan is often linked and has been used to to the Black Lives It's hard to believe there's another No comment. Let's just say that to be a Kanye West fan. And it saddens me. I won't mention all I chose the ones that in terms of media coverage, and public reception. But there are just too many. His comments were so he tends to be known and not because of all he has brought When I decided to I really wanted to focus because he's one of my inspirations, and purely production-wise, he's the best, among the best in any case. And I thought it was look at him through because people have He is so controversial, it only makes sense that As you know, human beings are negative things forcing it to adapt to increasingly But Kanye pushed complexity and in the end, it's it, and we, as fans, So yes, his mental illness could but it's not an excuse. His psychic problems are to be able to from how he Go and research symptoms it's ultra-complex, but it takes too much medical how the controversies The same way Kanye West I think we, as Kanye fans, went through our own all along these controversies. Kanye is difficult to forget, like an ex, or a We listen to these as if we were looking at old pictures With the hope that one day, Kanye, who today wants to be called Ye, He entirely redefined He used styles like some rhythms, high pitched soul samples, gospel, pop, electro music, to create a unique sound As an artist, he made his mark Kanye brought paving the way for new who dared to try something new. Breaking boundaries, imposing his vision, think outside the box, Kanye did all that he tried. Sadly, life made He who hates still has to fight against while mourning his mom and dealing with Despite all that, he dropping out of college creating his own labels or just through his Artistically speaking, Kanye West He's an unique creator, with his vision, his messages, always able to create new Of course, all the controversy giving credence to those his dangerousness and the fact that he's unstable. But I sincerely that like many of to become a better person. It is no easy thing, and even as things we see he's trying to be better. Through religion, fatherhood, or through art again, Because breaking boundaries, imposing with any art form, he's simply expressing freedom. He passes on this message so our constraints, our problems. Today, it is hard In this video, I mostly which made him one of the He's without a doubt one of the for any musical genre. He impacted all and he will impact Thanks to Kanye. I hope he can for his loved ones, his fans, but most of all, for himself. Everybody wants to if I didn't win? I guess we'll never know. Thanks for watching this video, I really enjoyed making it with one of my best friends. It was important for us, we liked going This kind of artist deserves a longer You're allowed to disagree. Some of it can be I hope you liked it. I can't wait to read Thanks to HOLY as well! If you made it this far, drop a like! Subscribe... Those YouTube things Talk about the video around you. Share, subscribe... Leave a comment. So we have something That's it. Have a wonderful week, a wonderful month, year, whatever. Bye, sending you kisses!