New Madrid's killer fault is about to strike The earthquake psychosis is back in the USA. But this time, it's not about the long-awaited California sooner or later, or the &quot;Really any time now... This time, fears are concentrated in a vast along the borders of Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee, activity has been recorded for some time, tremors. These tremors originate precisely along the in the early 19th century was the site of that they even managed to reverse the flow Many metropolises are currently located in and the region has been defined as the most of the Rocky Mountains. What's that? You didn't know anything about it? Well, that doesn't surprise us... The earthquakes of two centuries ago affected the time that they were soon forgotten; their locations (especially by the film industry), time. However, the danger is still very real, and it will likely find a community completely If you want to learn more about the tragic happen soon), all you have to do is keep following by the Insane Curiosity Channel! Of course, always remembering that on the those about the earthquakes that will devastate future... Okay, but for now, follow us... and let's in the winter of many years ago... In December 1811, an invisible force gripped let go for weeks. A series of major earthquakes caused the riverbed sea. On February 7, 1812, just upstream of New the point where the mighty Mississippi began That event was the culmination of a period On December 16, 1811, at two in the morning, southern tip of Missouri. Both country and city dwellers woke up to Houses were shifting off their foundations. People poured into the streets and stayed Their once quiet and safe homes had suddenly In the hours before dawn, the earth kept trembling, Around seven o'clock, there was another violent Then, around eleven, an even stronger one Chasms opened up in the ground, spewing forth Sulfurous gas emissions from underground contaminated Eyewitnesses observed thousands of birds fleeing When the shaking finally subsided, Little Minor tremors continued until January of 1812. On the morning of January 23rd, around nine, Point Pleasant, already battered, was near When some returned in February, they realized was no trace left of it. Due to the earthquake on January 23rd, Point hurled into the Mississippi. But it wasn't over yet... the disaster continued On February 7, 1812, before dawn, the restless interrupted by tremendous seismic waves: the This earthquake, more violent than all the Ohio, 650 kilometers away, it knocked down In Boston, Massachusetts, 1,600 kilometers Farther north, in Montreal, Canada, the noise could be heard. A man from Kentucky, living 130 kilometers &quot;If we don't get out of here, the earth will However, the earthquake's fury was particularly The tremors of 1811 had already severely damaged and forcing most survivors to leave. The shock of February 7th delivered the final When the earthquake hit, the remaining people The elevated bank on which the city stood the turbulent waters swept away the boards, In a short time, there was no trace left of The earthquakes caused temporary waterfalls dozens of boats. The tremor on February 7th lifted and sank to reverse. Enormous chasms opened up under the river, The earthquakes altered the river's course, They also diverted the waters, giving rise exist before 1812. The earthquake was so powerful that within Washington, and Boston. The shaking lasted for fifteen minutes, and and stone houses crumbled to their foundations St. Louis and Louisville suffered severe damage. Aftershocks hammered the country for days. Out of a population of about 15,000 inhabitants people perished, and at least 5,000 found Are you perhaps thinking that the loss of recent carnage in Haiti and Turkey? Well, you'll change your mind when you consider was one person per square kilometer! Besides the loss of human lives, there was Five settlements, a military fort, and countless the Earth. In many places, the ground was torn open and cracks. Dead trees were everywhere. Swamps were lifted and dried out, while good new enormous lakes. The still-young United States had never experienced It's impossible to establish the exact magnitude exist in 1812. Scientists estimate that at least three of Richter scale, would have had a magnitude These are the most intense earthquakes ever and globally, they are among the strongest &quot;Hey, guys, just a moment before we continue... BE sure to join the Insane Curiosity Channel... Click on the bell, you will help us to make Okay, that's a quick summary of what happened A catastrophe that, thanks to the very low the slow speed at which news spread at that the central government... which even neglected But all of this concerns the past... If we want to come to terms with the present, activity in that area still exists, that it the overall population of those places has It would be an apocalypse if the earthquakes don't you think? And all it takes is a simple calculation to If two centuries ago, the percentage of casualties the losses suffered by the natives, which of the same power, we should expect at least A massacre. But is the New Madrid Fault still active and At the beginning of the 20th century, the expeditions, with throngs of geologists eager intense earthquakes in a region where there Andreas. After decades of excavations and studies, of New Madrid is not due to the tug-of-war as usually happens in the overwhelming majority The critical zone, in fact, is not located of the North American plate, buried 600/900 It should not be surprising if even areas by earthquakes. Even the largest and most stable plates, where ago, can sometimes undergo internal deformation, on their edges. Another theoretical reason for the development of a new margin, namely, a new rift zone due plates. And this seems to be the most likely case It is estimated that 0.5% of the seismic energy that originate away from plate boundaries. The remaining 99.5% is due to those, more margins between plates. In the case of New Madrid, it also happens crust of the central United States can generate of comparable magnitude that occur in the The geological structure of the New Madrid sedimentary rock, such as limestone, which hitting a bass drum. Due to this chain effect, an earthquake along and cause more damage than a similar magnitude Today, the New Madrid fault zone, which is North America east of the Rocky Mountains. Currently, an average of 200 earthquakes occur are too small to be felt. About once a year, there is an earthquake years, there is an earthquake of magnitude Earthquakes cannot be predicted. The likelihood or probability can be calculated Based on evidence of seismic activity found that in New Madrid, an earthquake with a magnitude occur every 200-300 years. Seismologists also calculate a 25-40% probability occurring in the New Madrid seismic zone by life. One day, perhaps without any warning, an absolutely Fault. When that happens, thousands of Americans will be completely destroyed, and millions This would be a nightmare from which none So, since we don't know when the big event imposing extreme safety measures across the Unfortunately, we know that very little has this certainly does not leave us feeling reassured... For its part, the small town of New Madrid, the region, now has a population of 3,000, content, as some say, to &quot;keep one eye on New Madrid folk singer Lou Hobbs puts it another New Madrid Fault Line.&quot; &quot;The good Lord, He put us all here And only He's gonna take us away. Living on the New Madrid fault line, You gotta live it day by day.&quot;