So, there they are, Aiden and Ellie, the only Still in their late teens, the two are making babies. The good news is they have the hots You all know that there's a version of human and kicking off mankind. Those two a couple that made the Garden of Eden their home. had to sustain their lives in the garden, but As for Aiden and Ellie, there is The old blue ball didn't get whacked by an It was forward-thinking artificial but then it destroyed itself just before The animals were still around. The AI was the Earth at any cost, and then it figured out so the only rational thing to do was to that program sure upset a lot of folks. Aiden and Ellie didn't really think much much of their time hanging out in rich people's into a tree one day, and after that, the There was some serious business to take care of. which having a mild climate meant the couple winter and the fact there was no electricity. bit of a downer, these two got very lucky They also had the added bonus of not because studies have shown that when children higher rate of infant mortality. Even if the kids kids will be born with some kind of defect. be born healthy, but what about the offspring's In a study undertaken in Czechoslovakia scientists looked at the children of parents is someone in your direct family. Procreating with Even if first cousins get it on, the offspring In that study, the kids who were born great outcomes. 40 percent of them had of them died because of their disabilities. featuring a man you might think was trying That man was King Chulalongkorn of This guy did a lot of good things and he was also a formidable That father was King Mongkut, One of them was Chulalongkorn. Chulalongkorn had a lot of wives, consorts, total. To keep the bloodline pure, several of actually his half-sisters. Back in those days, But the proof soon became evident He had a kid with a half-sister named Daksinajar born. He had eight kids with half-sister Savang most of them didn't make it to adulthood. Vadhana She was the product of inbreeding. to his 77 children, you see that many, and we A lot of them died when they were barely Many others died in their twenties and thirties. European royalty was also into keeping things in also to make certain money and property stayed European inbreeding in royal families was very were often weak and sickly, and there was also The internet might have been down in Aiden and to books and libraries, and being the prudent After going through a few books on the matter, would bite the dust just as soon as they let out short lives hobbling around while carrying The couple also read about the Colt family in In short, June was the child of a brother and Zealand at the time. They had seven kids of were born once those kids were old enough to farther than their own home, if you get what A lot of the kids had defects, and some seemed hurt animals. Many were very sickly and prone to the family. When an investigator found them, This story sent shivers down Aiden and Ellie's while in the library thinking about a team trying to set cows on fire. way? That's the big question today. children that he had with his sisters went on to hard to find kids who lived past the age of 40. gene pool was going to lead to a future ill kids once their own children started They had one kid, a boy, and named him Carl. Asher. Damn, they thought, two boys. Then Carl over toys, after which Ellie and Aiden had a With not much to do, these two last adult as many in fact as was possible given Ellie's part grew up fine, but the kids' kids Let's us explain something now, before we get You've heard of that thing called DNA. Well, it Within every chromosome, there are hundreds that will determine human characteristics, also bad to the bone, sometimes literally. are called alleles. When two people have a There are dominant and recessive genes, you will have the trait of that With recessive genes, it is different, because For example, the gene for brown eyes is dominant, But for blues eyes, it is different, because that to get blue eyes. In this case, both your but if one of your parents had the Importantly, though, as you know, not all unless they are twins. You get 50 percent of Now, imagine that DNA, say, from your mom was the pack is shuffled, so that the next child But, if there were lots of children and some sets of genes will look similar to as we go along with the Ellie and Aiden story. are carried in recessive genes. This is and to get that harmful trait, you'll have it is good to play the field with strangers. there is a more chance they carry some defective and one thing leads to another and a child is If there are generations all from the same gene some bad genes might match up. was the man famous for his chin. It took In fact, he was born with scores of defects After many years of suffering, he died aged 38. here's what his autopsy report said: his lungs corroded; his intestines rotten black as coal, and his head was full of water." thinking about future generations of her family. of hers looking like a character from a movie But then one day she was reading another book, the lines, "The evidence for the short-term but all these things are probabilistic. There the brink - anything is possible." Ellie tried to translate that in laymen's terms knocked out enough kids and those kids knocked will be lots of challenges (cow burning even) the future of mankind could be in the bag. gray and at that time her beloved husband was a but some of her grandkids had lives writers would have put it, "nasty and short". They in turn had kids with each other, Evolution actually wants us to be attracted to but the future of mankind demanded Ellie was still worried, having read that there is place, such as what happened to the Hapsburgs. If she could safely match them so children weren't She had a reason for some optimism though small island called Pingelap, who lived far These people were almost wiped out in the but 20 of them survived. They flourished ensured that many years later a tenth of the The thing was, this disorder, called complete from one man. But it didn't show up in the not everyone got it. This made Ellie happy. with one of her granddaughters crying from a crib "Anything is possible, anything is possible." breath in a determined voice, even though one of her less successful by-products giggling There was a long way to go yet, and what's swing - meaning a profound lack of genetic while Ellie's family admittedly all looked generations to come there would be natural Since Aiden in those days seemed only and cattle - he'd become so distant - they were a perfect couple, with she being the One day Ellie told Aiden that there were instances populations after starting as pairs. They were "What?" replied Aiden, feeling confused. She told on some island and the rats thrived. He "Don't tell me you read that on one of those Ellie went quiet and returned to her It said, "Starlings in North America there are a couple hundred million of them now, That seemed like good news, but she understood from the last two. She couldn't find any examples to the last pair and then started up again. held her hand as she drifted into the great grandkids, and great-grandkids. One of them, in distress just before passing away. The poor But she remembered some words written by a founded by two people, you would have to get lucky Aiden might have been lucky, but as Ellie took her by all those faces, things didn't look too bad. for the worst, and she also knew that a you'd probably need 98 unrelated humans looking at people who had come from her and Aiden. the planet from these two? The answer is yes, there would have to be a lot of luck. later no one would believe the story of Ellie and The reality is, scientists aren't but they certainly don't think it all kicked They know there were different types of humans a couple of million years ago, such as Homo and then it took quite a while for the Just kidding. It can be translated as wise man. mated with newer kinds of humans, such Neanderthals and modern humans also mated. a very small gene pool when things started. of Ellie and Aiden and compare it with something people were left alone on the planet they might but Ellie and Aiden at least tried. "Why It Would Suck To Live Through The End