Welcome to Europe's biggest airplane storage site. Sam, welcome to Tarmac Aerosafe site in Teruel, Spain. This is much more than an aircraft graveyard. Here we store, we maintain, and we recycle aircraft. This is unbelievable time in aviation. So many planes were stored here, got out of here, and flew in the sky, got their second life. This is more exciting than coming to Disneyland. Lines and lines and lines of wide body, especially four engine airplane, A340, A380. Tell us more about how many planes here in storage. Yeah, currently we have 55 aircraft parked here, however we have parked roughly 140 during pandemic. So we have been really, really busy and now this is what we did. It took you one week to cover up the engine, the gear, the doors, but how often you have to come inside to check the aircraft. Yes, to come inside we came every 15 days, however every week we come and have a look that all is still covered and all the tape is still in place. That will make sure that no water, no birds will come inside to damage the aircraft, therefore we secure that the aircraft is really well protected. Every 15 days, as mentioned before, we remove the covers and turn around the wheels just to make sure that they are still with all the pressure inside that we need. We remove the tops, we try to prevent the movement. ok? so... Let me try. I want to pick the tire. Oh, yeah, pressure is inside. It's good. We have a lot of air. It's not flat Yeah, let's move it. Let's move it. Yeah Yes, it is. And also, it is rounded to the ground. The random things there. Yes. Oh, it's extremely, yeah, I guess it's because of my mood. You know, the weather here is really windy right now. You actually, the plane, my mood. Yeah. We can try to move it but I don't think we can, we will be able to. It's both on the ground. I cannot move it, so it is really tight. That's right. Yeah, yeah, I can see it's trapped. Yeah Yes. We not also prevent something to be inside the engine, however, we also protect the parts which are exposed to the weather with that compound and later on, on the return to service, there is a team which is just cleaning and make sure that it is in good condition and that nothing has been occurred during the storage. Oh, yes. Would you look at the length of this aeroplane, the A340-600, one of the longest plane out there. And you need a huge yard to park these planes, line by lines. But for sure, Paula, this one's not gonna fly because the wings is missing, the wing is gone, dismantled. Yes Sam, you are right, this aircraft will not fly again. The components have been removed and the aircraft will be recycled. I can hear the APU is running. That's a good sign. The airplane is waking up. Yes, this is welcome to our reactivation area. This aircraft came in 2020 from Etihad and now it's going to be back We are working to make it fly back again by the end of August Wow, so more A380s joining back on the Etihad fleet. yeah, that's a happy news for all, I mean never no one thought that it was could come back to fly but after four years it's coming back to fly and we will work 5 000 hours on this aircraft to make it fly again. So in the cockpit, take a look. Do you have good memories about this aircraft? This one, Alpha Papa Echo, I think I've flown this one. Yeah, I've definitely flown lots of aeroplanes parked here. I'm really glad you guys are working on this. This is going back to Second Life to fly in the sky again. So yeah, show us about what you're doing right now. We're going to start in the number one crank, okay? Okay, what? Engine manual selector, go to crank position. Everything is clear for engine number one deal. Okay, I set the chrono on, I'm going to start engine number 1. okay perfect, thankyou. Start valve open, engine turning... Ok, stabilized. I'm going to check the hydraulic page. Everything's okay, 5,000. and go to move a little bit, fly controls. The other side. Okay, close to two minutes. I go to disconnect. So as soon as I sat down in the cockpit, which is still look very new. If you look at the white leather ship skin seats, right? Oh, hey, the engineer demonstrated a engine crank on number one. So he just taught me something. Engine crank was using bleed air outside. It was not using the fuel to start the engine. So that test went well. Yes, perfect. The engine works properly and now the engine is ready to go to the runway to make the engine start. With the fireman, to put fuel and improve the parameters of the engine, we take off power. Plane stored at three years here. Let's go inside, take a look at a cabin condition. Follow me. There you go. I remember this place, first class apartments. Says you're in good hands. Yeah. So new, it feels so clean and ready to go back to service. Can't wait to fly again. Let me do some spot check here. Cause I remember there used to be a vanity mirror and desk. Yep. It's working. The light is on. And I'm impressed because Imagine you store your car for three years, probably won't start again, let alone the airplane, which is far more complex than a car. For three years, thousands of hours to work to put it back to service. this is the most important thing on the airplane Yes, the coffee maker. The coffee maker, Here it is. Wow. So they will just plug back in to the galley? Yes. Yeah. Okay, Sam, do you want to take a look over the crew rest? Yeah, let's go to the crew rest. The A380 crew rest is something. It's below the main deck. OKAY,LET'S GO THEN... It actually felt like a new airplane come out from a factory. They still have everything sealed, you know, carpets covered. So this is the door to access to the crew rest, okay? Ah, here he comes. Mike! Magic All right, let's go in. Hopefully there's no one inside there. Well, this is actually a tricky one. Better to go down this way, face that. Yeah, there you go. Yeah, yeah. MUCH BETTER. A secret first class, like a beautiful compartment, where I could go in and try. yeah exactly. you're completely right. And it fits me inside a secret compartment Is it comfortable? Very comfortable flatbed. This place that we are, this container, because it's like a square. Uh-huh, he's like a container. Yeah, it's a container. It's like taking space from the cargo loading. Oh, so the cargo is behind us. the cargo is behind us that is right. Right. Yeah, that's the Airbus concept. This is really just one of the cargo container became a crew rest, that is sweet. yeah. that is right. Sometimes as passenger, we forgot, the engineers are the most important guys fixing the aeroplane and making sure the aeroplane is able to return to service to fly. Without them, the aeroplane won't fly. So I really like to thank you guys for working thousands of hours to get all the planes fly a second life again. I'm in a plane spotter's paradise. There's a A350, brand new LATAM. I saw that airplane in Victorville. Interestingly, it flew over to here and now it's getting prepped and ready to go into Lufthansa. So there are airplane actually in storage and then they're in transition to the new owner. This is what's happening. This Etihad A380, hopefully Alpha Papa Delta, is also going back to service, but some planes here are a bit more sad, especially the BA Jumbos. We all know what happened to them, and there are so many of them, and in fact, I flew a lot of airplanes in here, CIVS, one of them parked. So this is exactly how the airplane grey bear feel like. You can hear the wind, it's very windy. We're very high up in the desert here, very open. And the plane's all taped up and you can see some tapes making noises. Some planes' engines turning with the wind. It's a sad sight, very sad, the end of the line here for these British Airways Jumbo in the graveyard. This A340 with a German flag, that is a VIP aircraft. That's a former German Chancellor, Angela Merkel's aeroplane, the A340 now. It's also with the engine took out and parked here. For those airplanes that are not fortunate to fly out again, they are getting recycled here. So Ignacio, you show us what you're doing with all the parts recycling, right? yes sure, Let's go have a look. okay, yeah sure, I'll show you the aircraft. So this one is got the former South African A330 paint. Let's go inside. Wow, everything's intact. It looks so clean as well. I'm impressed. It's not like a lot of sand and dirt's coming in. South African Airways, put all the logos on the galley here. Here's a clue, I know when this aeroplane's last flew. Because I'm reading the magazine, it says November 19th. So probably just around COVID time, this aeroplane came here. Anyone want a magazine? Or a safety card? 2D3? Oh, here, this is interesting. So it looks like they've removed a lot of seats on the side and stacked them all up. So it looks like they're going to clean out the cabin here. They are going to remove one of the parts that the customer wants to recover. The first step is to remove the parts. After they will attach a removal tag, identifying the number of this part. So once it is removed, they will cap Okay with the connectors to avoid any damage to have the part in good condition And after we will move the parts to our inventory area where we will Pack and we will prepare to ship So I'm holding this part 599, looks like it's some sort of speed break of copy instrument. So Jose, how does this work? You're taking by request from customer one part and one part out? Yes, that's correct. The customer gives us a list, a harvest list of the components that he wants, okay? So we remove that component, we just remove with you, Sam. So we check, we remove according to the AMN. We check that this part, the part number and serial number matches with the list of the customer, okay? We put an item number, we put an identification tag, and then we go to the inventory to put it in the cloud so the customer can know that this part has been removed. Right. And then like, I wonder how long it takes to disassemble a whole A330 like this. It takes around 12 weeks, okay? Just 12 weeks, the whole plane. Yeah. Yes, the whole plane. Can be recycled. We first remove the parts that the customer wants, and once we have removed all these parts, we ship it to them and then we make disposal of the remaining airframe. We segregate all the materials, we leave the airframe completely naked, and we send to the different recycling channels every remaining part of the aircraft. And then we cut the airframe with our diamond cable and we send it to the recycling channel, being able to recover, to recycle up to 94% of the total weight of the aircraft. Sam, this is the inventory shop. We have removed the part. And now we are going to take pictures of the part. Upload it in the cloud so the customer can see that the part has been removed. Okay. We are going to pack it and put it in the crate for shipping, okay? Okay. it's lots of items in the shop here. If you're a frequent flyer Lufthansa, you'll recognize this bowl kit. And this is the first row of business class for sure, the food rest here, the entire piece. And then I also saw this oven. and there's even pilot's chairs. There's plenty of parts in this storage warehouse here. So in the shop here, I found a whole box of shipment. It looks like many parts going to customer. But when you keep saying customer, taking these parts, do you sell single items to anyone walk in, like aviation enthusiasts? Like, I want to buy a Rolls-Royce engine cowling. I bought that. No, no, no, we don't. We perform this service for our customers, which are the owners of the aircraft, the airlines, all the parts brokers companies. I see... You're just taking the parts down for them and ship back to the owner of the aircraft. And they recycle, they take these to their spare tooling. yeah, right. That's correct, that's correct. yeap. Yes, they do the spare tooling on the with the airlines and the past brokers They sell it to other airlines and after going to shop the parts they sell it to their airlines This is completely clean, completely naked. So now we cut it. We cut the different sections with a wire cable, okay? That allows us to do clean cuts, to do in smaller pieces. All in a sustainable area, in an audited facility, and compliance with environmental regulation. They're using a cable to cut the wing. You can see it's making a little bit of progress here, maybe a little bit less than a quarter it's cutting through. And then it's not what I saw in the U.S. they're using chainsaws. Those men are lots of muscles doing it by hand. Here they're using the machine to cut it through. So, to end today's tour, I've got some great news to share. The birds like this have been on the ground for a couple of years, but they just found their second home. As they belong to the sky, they will fly again. Thanks for watching.