What did the Romans sorry Jews Scientifically. what have the Romans ever done for us? Jews make up 0.2% of the world's Guess what percentage of Nobel Prize about 20% and 25% in science. And the medical fields. They are overrepresented 10,000% Jewish people as a group make some people really angry. They are awfully good at so many things And it's not just science, which is what It's in music with people like Bob Dylan, Rodgers and Hammerstein, or in the film think Steven Spielberg, but also in the world of business for examples of great companies We have Google, Dell Computers, Facebook, Warner Brothers. DreamWorks. Dunkin. Dunkin Donuts. Well, anyway, you get the idea. But let's look at the scientific and we might as well start Albert Einstein. Time magazine's person of the Century. He was working in the patent office And then in 1905, he published four papers His paper on the Photoelectric effect mechanics, which is basically the science And basically which were previously unexplainable. And his paper on the relativity of essentially everything And he found the equivalence of mass and that time and space are related Without Einstein, so many things we have For example, lasers. Without lasers, there's no internet because we could not fire signals down that we need to give the massive data And the GPS systems would be impossible Those signals on the ultra accurate clocks on the satellites to the clocks down on earth, Then there's electronics, which Just about electronics if it wasn't for the field of quantum And Einstein worked in a time especially in Germany, But more about that later, well, the country is invariably the loser. So here are some other great Fritz Haber, His work included the development of the This has been one of the huge advances To make proteins, plants need nitrogen These have been very scarce in nature and this has limited It is estimated about half of the nitrogen comes out of a factory Billions of people are now alive without this Jewish genius. About half the people in the Middle East surrounding Is that all irony? Is it ungrateful ignorance? Well, what about Jonas Salk? He invented polio vaccines. People forget that It often crippled children. Many ended up in iron lungs, trapped for life How many children did Jonas Salk How many children in the Middle East? In countries owe their lives to this Jew? And he didn't even get a Nobel Prize like remarkable physicist Lisa Meitner, and ended up But many others did win Nobels. For example, Isidor nuclear magnetic resonance NMR which is fundamental to look at. The structure of organic molecules. NMR allows chemists and work out its bonding arrangements. This was a huge advance for chemists. In fact, but NMR is also used in MRI scanners, And I could go on with the other I want to focus on the hatred of the Jews which has been a huge own goal For example, look at the invention of the It was a war winning weapon If the Germans had not been beaten after they'd murdered 6 million Jews, bomb dropped on them And those atom bombs developed by Jewish scientists Germany was also trying to make successful, Hitler would have used it But in America a Jew who led the Manhattan Project in the all important theoretical physics 20% of the scientists were Jews of the major groups in the project. Five were headed by Jews. Jews like Hans Bethe, Richard Feynman, or Leo Szilard, who envisaged Szilard like many Jewish scientists, was forced out of Germany due and he ended up in England like today in the 1930s, even the great ones like Einstein, Sure, the Nazis force their anti-Semitic but they found fertile ground Sound familiar? At the end of the war, the German scientists who were working They wanted to know so they locked them all up listening devices on all the rooms. When the Hiroshima bomb fell, these scientists were given And the British The German nuclear scientists The construction of the bomb. It turned out that, in fact, the Germans abjectly failed They had followed and there wasn't a Jew amongst them. These guys, So while you contemplate this happy eventuality, Actually, it wasn't luck, was it? And remember, when it comes to Jews being expelled. There is much said today dispossession of Palestinians But it never seems to be mentioned that Jews were thrown out of countries 50,000 from Yemen alone. And look what became of Yemen. Perhaps a million Jews have been expelled from Arab countries and Iran. There might be just 10,000 Just think how America in particular What a stupid mistake those Arab countries But that's what hate does. And look at Israel now. Not many people realize that it's actually It's small, but it's a powerhouse. And the companies and inventions But just as an example, which was really the birth of the modern as used by everyday people. that chip called the 8088 was developed at Intel's Laboratories in Haifa, Israel. Like many of Intel's processors when Israel started in 1948, it was just a patch of semi-desert next to the Mediterranean. Like all the countries around it, countries that try to invade it every decade or two. But Israel alone has become that is by far the best country and the most tolerant country So to answer the question, what did The answer is more So if there's ever an opportunity the response should be, And you might also ask the question, the Jews as a group And will the world ever