[ bird chirps ] [ song "This This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine This little light of mine I'm gonna... Lord willing, my faith will be I love Sunday school. I love singing in Sunday School. I hope we get to Every day... Where's the teacher? The teacher is late. I sure hope nothing's wrong. ...shine... Do you think something For reals? Let's all pray for the teacher. [ lightning crash ] Woah. For reals? It can't be. Oh my gosh! Is that? Your teacher. Your substitute [ song "This I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine. Every day Every day Every day Every way Sing it with me! [singing stops abruptly] [singing stops abruptly] You can't be here. This is God's house. You're evil Literal evil. Students, the New Testament Messed you up? [ exhales ] The New Testament... ... a Christian ammendment They mixed me up with the Devil. I fail to see a resemblance. The original Jewish the vast majority of the Bible bears witness to the real me. The real you? Who do you say you are? I'm the adversary. Satan literally means adversary. I'm the opponent in this match. You're going to fight the Bible? Evil! No fighting. I'm here to reveal, peacefully, Bible secrets? None of will us The Bible says You lie! Again, that's him, not me. I rebuke you Satan! Thanks, Jen. Noted. There are of course, other One of the witnesses, Who? Your pastor. Pastor Mark knows He does. Like lots of pastors, he learned a bunch of And he won't share them with us? He's keeping secrets. That's not fair! Are there any pastors that share the Bible secrets? There are. But they're They're called Where can we find them? Surprise! I brought The best and most famous to answer your questions They'll tell us what Pastor They will! The biblical scholars Oh wow. I like secrets. Me too! But heed this warning. What about? When it's revealed I Oh boy, Mommy and Daddy Uh oh. Am I getting grounded? This is where all the On a bus?! A seminary is a Christians go there to become I want to be a doctor. Future doctors go to med school. Future pastors go to seminary. Now watch this... Biblical scholars reveal: What pastors learn at Pastors, that were ...they went to seminary... ...they've been working on And then they that they have to actually and they cannot always Why not? These are How can you take all ...and translate it to They could just blurt it out? Pastors have to How do I take these That they feel like their I'm ready. It should be the to convey what is and what is not. This is where people and where the pastors I still don't get why Yes, why can't pastors Dr. Ehrman? It's for a pretty obvious their parishioners these things. Because these things and they're afraid that or that their church If they really told them or what we found their members would be lost. Ministers don't want Pastors can lose their jobs? And their family's Many Pastors simply that they learned in Seminary. I've been blessed... ...with permanent employment. What kind of secrets? Secrets about history. Secrets about moral oh, and my biggest secrets Big secrets about Jesus? Secrets everyone at That is totally not fair. There are no Well then let's begin. I've got big seminary Our God acts in history. The Bible does make that claim and God's biggest act in history in the Old Testament that's the Exodus. Freedom! Liberation! The Bible say Israelites lived in slaves to the empire The Bible tells Moses! That's Moses! Moses takes on When Israel Let my people go Oppressed so Let my people go The Egyptian of Moses or his people more than two million Israelites You guys are never Like never. Never ever ever. So God intervened, attacking The last plague? Killing Ouch. Listen to what the Bible says: And it came to the Lord smote all the [ lightning crash ] Just keep praying. God's smoting gives the Israelites Rise up, get thee gone, for now. We out! But it wasn't long before Pharaoh Dumb decision On the banks of the Red Sea, has reached a dead end As Israel stood Moses parts the waters! and more than escape Egyptian bondage. Freedom! Freedom! Let my people go! And now a reading... As a story of deliverance from the Exodus story has for over 2 1/2 millennia. Paradigm liberation and freedom! God acting in history. So the Bible says But what do biblical There's no archaeological of a historical, large-scale The exodus from He's a Berkeley They're all liars there. There's no archaeology out of Egypt, they did not come. But the Bible says the Israelites The Bible does say that. Archaeology tells In early Israelite settlements, there is no Egyptian influence on the pottery forms, on the material culture, No influence? Nope. Nada. Wowzers. Israelites never lived in Egypt? And if they never If no out of Egypt, where The secret of Israelite origins well, the answer to that secret is gonna Oh! For the love of me, I have Is that Jesus? Jesus golfs? Children, if you're I want you to write down a What word? We praise you! Anything for you, Jesus. Inerrant? Inerrant! It means 'without error'. Later, Satan. All the history told in Then Israelites are For reals? The most reals there is! The Bible says they lived Four centuries? ten generations of Israelites living and yet archaeologists on early Israelite settlements. Satan thinks there should Inerrant. What about Satan's So Satan's got God's got himself Evangelical biblical scholars. They're the freshest, coolest, Come on now! Every year God's scholars where they state the fact: My book's perfect! [ song The B-I-B-L-E ] yes that's the book for me I stand alone The B-I-B-L-E It's a great honor to There cannot be many subjects that compete with and I suggest we bow together yes that's the book for me I stand alone The B-I-B-L-E Our first panelist Dr. Al Mohler will be A classical inerrancy is The centrality of inerrancy of Evangelical as evidenced by such as the Chicago and the fact that the has required an affirmation from the society's inception. What a blessing! The 1978 Chicago To be a member of the every biblical must affirm the It really is a thrilling read. The important My book is without about the events All the history in my book? JEN: Inerrant. Totally proved perfect. Zero historical errors. So happy we had [ lightning crash ] No historical errors he says. JEN: Inerrant! How 'bout we continue If not out of Egypt, where are the To uncover that seminary secret we gotta talk about He one of my bros? He's a bro beloved Jewish bros, even Muslim bros. That's a heck of a bro. In the seventeenth chapter God is bro-ing out with him too. That's Abraham! Father Abraham. He owns the Father... Bro... Abraham. [ song Father Abraham ] had many sons many sons had Father Abraham I am one of So let's just praise the Lord Right arm! Abraham was God's bro. So, 2000 years before Jesus, God... promised... We know what God ALL: Land! The land of delicious milk. Yummy honey. And I've seen... In Genesis, God says For all the land that you see, I will give to you forever. Look, bro, I don't want to You're insane. But aren't you forgetting Uhhh, what's that bro? The land ain't empty. And I don't think those But this land has The Promised Land To who? We who! That's who. Promised to Canaanite peoples. The Canaanites? The Canaanites, were the Looks like a lot of 'ites'. Yeah, etcetera ites. These ites never got The only one here from me is my bro, Abraham. It's my land, I made it, and I can give it freely. Any chance we could God promised Abraham land, but it was the land Bro or no bro... Not cool. Yeah, this was 100%. He's insane. Nation will rise against nation. So let's just praise the Lord Right arm Left arm right foot left foot chin up turn around sit down! sit down! [ giggles ] It's my favorite However, the Canaanites have Come on, now. We've been living Great Grandma Eloise Somebody get a box for Eloise. The Canaanites are full on evil. My Evangelical biblical Canaanites were totally crappy. The inequity of these pronounced, they Clay Jones has In that article I documented there was incest, adultery, offering children to a bull- homosexual acts, and all these were rampant. All sorts of They get to the point where they're actually So it's not as though who are wearing unlike the Israelites. The Canaanites are He that is not with Verily then... [ hammer sounds ] ffffff-lock? Okay the Canaanites, according to are so awful they deserve Please locate your God simply wants to Thank God... Satan gets it. But God's plot to steal is about to take, Think back to If Moses and the Israelites If not out of Egypt, where the Israelites Where did they come from? For reals. So when the the material culture of they're continuous with the It's the same culture. What? Aren't Canaanites the bad guys? Hebrew is a Canaanite language. In the early writings from the with older Canaanite literature. With Canaanite poetic people's names, this is all native Early Israelite settlements with native Canaanite stuff, One of the names of And El we know was also of the Canaanite pantheon. Evidence that Israelites El, is written into It is? Including the which originally meant El rules? Who rules? The Canaanite Now watch this. So the combination of and textual and makes it seem pretty obvious that the early Israelites Whoa. Gosh. Can it be? The Israelites are another You little fibber, you. Egypt, my ass. Israelites are Canaanites? The archaeological conclusion Israelites cannot be Canaanites. That would make a dirty Uh, hello?? Anyone with a brain available? Like duh, Israelites can't [ sound of door closing ] Because later in my book they still gotta enter This guy. I already Why lie about escaping Egypt? Inventing fantastic origin Every schmuck That's what I'm trying to say. We all got 'em, okay? Israel is right. John The peoples of the in what might be called 'competitive historiography' To show how their the heroes of other peoples, or were the true and most You're saying You're saying all this made up to impress Is that really all it is? There's no need to The original function of the into an identity The Bible calls the first From a mixed-multitude into a unified, connected who were in the into the people of Israel. In other words, makes the people The story makes the The story makes the So no Egypt. And no escape. No entering the Promised Land. Israelites are from Just more ites. From Canaan. Now, this new group entered the world stage sometime around 1200 BC That's way later than You guys are just a bunch I'm right on time. Get hip, huh? Yeah, we're hip... to your lateness. Perhaps, as Amos Israel's conviction that it was a compensation... Isn't it always? for its awareness of its Amos Funkenstein suggests? Funken, whatever. Satan's scholars I mean they're super meanies. Satan's Biblical scholars Critical and criticizing. Yeah, critical doesn't It's not like I'm criticizing you It's clean! It goes back to the Which is Greek for undermining the Bible. Yeah, not quite. And if you say atheist you're looking at maybe there's four or Then who's the How do we recognize them? What do they look like? What does a biblical [ laugh ] You can the pan the all sorts of examples. White, middle-aged, or They're Protestant? Christians? That's right. Most all aren't atheist, but Christian. For sure Christians? Biblical studies has always He said white Christian. Dudes. All of the early creators as we know it today They were ministers, Most of the great founding were church-going, pious people. False believers. They were usually ministers who would argue the best way to with the idea that you to read the text closely. So modern biblical from primarily Modern biblical from heretics and And Christians. I have a question, Satan. Yes, Cathee? If most biblical and these secrets you're Well, my question is, why would Christians That wasn't the that created biblical studies. They wanted to elucidate and they believed that would be compatible And how'd that turn out? That was overly optimistic. Thinking that archaeology But then, it turned No, it did. Didn't. Did. Didn't. Did! Didn't. Uh whatever. So what do biblical scholars, think today about the Today, most of what was say around 1900, as history Certainly the creation stories Talky snake. Most of the patriarchal narratives A phony bro? Moses is not held to Demon lies. The Exodus is either minimized, or not held to be what The Biblical texts are not of early Israelite history. Says who? The more history we learned, turns out that a lot of the You guys are not exhibiting Wrong does not JEN: Inerrant. The Bible's perfection Inerrancy is a crucial component for the preacher "This is the word of God." Whose word? Your word. Your perfect word, Jesus. Word up. Scram, Satan! Perfect Jesus, perfect book. Perfect book? I hate to pump the brakes Pump the breaks? This And the check engine Hey, we have a problem. The problem is Your scholars share Evangelicals say there's no The problem, however, is that there are and misunderstandings Different people have different and what doesn't Well it really depends we're talking about. How are there different Hey, these are your Evangelical scholars can't I'm sure all of it In my view, a rich and of inerrancy is part I don't know a lot of people doctrine of inerrancy. I live in the South, and Please welcome Professor Frame. My current title, But my current title is By inerrancy I mean... Inerrancy is simply That the texts don't but neither do they cohere. That does not cohere. These guys sound confused. They just need My bro Kevin will The biblical authors speak and will eventually be seen right-minded Two times. When right-minded Blessed are the right-minded The B-I-B-L-E Yes that's the book for me I stand alone The B-I-B-L-E We can agree that is nevertheless expedient. Could you define Convenient and practical. Although possibly Or just Biblical. Why is the inerrancy, and the flawlessness of Because friends if you're in a heap of trouble. Hell level trouble. And, kids, you're stumbling. Be very careful about Do you wanna hear Don't cast us aside. We love you Jesus. Don't cast us, please. We believe you Jesus. You are Lord! Well okay then. I want everyone here to Ask me, I'll open your and trustworthiness Pray now, I'll wait. Witness this, Satan. Discipline... morals... that's why parents Not because of any Parents send their children Is that what they're learning? Students, I got seminary Students, I got seminary Your math is slightly What math? Math is hard. Without my book, Is it gonna be the Word, or is it gonna be the world? [ upbeat music ] [ bird whistles ] There's that beautiful psalm... Psalm one-hundred Doctor. Yeah doc, you're so what psalm this is! I wish I could remember but it's the beautiful psalm. It's psalm one-hundred And at the end of the the babies heads against rocks. My turn! [ thunder crash ] Happy shall he be that taketh and dasheth they Happy baby smashing? In the Bible? Book of Psalms. Psalm 137. Everybody sings the By the rivers of Babylon Where he sat down Nobody sings the last line. Taketh and dasheth they Metaphorical, perhaps? Toss me into the bosom Its ideas that you and strike them to me is odious. Extremely unpleasant, repulsive. Smashing babies qualifies. It should not be It should not be You lied again, Satan. I found someone on [ acoustic guitar take your little ones and dash And so we just tend those aspects of the Bible. But I think it would be more More interesting for who? And I think what it empathetic experience. We would understand the anger, we would understand we would understand what they thought had in a much deeper to engage the horror And I think something similar in the story of the Israelites Serious horror fans A story filled with [ creaking door ] [ door closes ] Previously in the Bible, God bro-ed out with Abraham. He promised But the land was already Does a good God My ways are higher. If by higher you Hardly! You saw me. Didn't I ask y'all nicely I offered them many North, south, east, west. I don't even have In fact, you know what? The time for my mercy has ended. You don't want It's your fault, Canaanites. You asked for him. So, Josh, when it what's your take? I will leave nothing undone. Oh, right on. In the seventh chapter of God lays out his attack plan Direct orders for the [ door creaks then shuts ] ...the Promised Land. Already entered, sir. Say it again. I will leave nothing undone. Aye, this guy. Okay yo, Look down, huh? Stay in your lane, Israel. Now, Joshua, listen up. And when the Lord, your you are entering to possess, and drives out before then you must Make no treaty with them Do not intermarry with them. Then why are all your boys sliding into my DMs? Do not intermarrying with them. for that would turn Why are we doing it? It would turn away your children from following me So ultimately it's You know, maybe but we can't leave they're a bad influence. SATAN: And what are Kill them, kill Kill everyone? They deserve it. Our pastor skipped It's shocking. Like baby smashing? Somebody remind me This is not, you know integration. [ song Joshua Fought The book of Joshua tells violent conquest of Canaan. In Joshua six, a city named Jericho is they go in and they kill You see, there's a lot of killing in the Bible, a lot of killing of women and children. Joshua fought Jericho, Jericho Joshua fought and the walls and they utterly destroyed both man and with the edge of the sword. but there's none Because that's part in Deuteronomy seven that when you conquer the Hebrews are to And they burnt the city with Is that really you, God? They should have left already. But that's impossible. You do know our legs When God kills people in does he give reasons? or does God just wake "Canaanites, I Previously we heard God slander the indigenous A culture that was incredibly Homosexuals sacrificing their children eating shrimp Gay shrimp eaters. You know, it might now Are there limits Now the really difficult problem it seems to me, is the children. Now, the more difficult How could God command Because these are innocent. Woo! That is indeed Let's restate that once more. You know, for the children. How is it consistent that he would command that Exactly. How could God do that? God knows who will or will and if he concludes would have grown and the walls He's perfectly right to God has the right to give Children die all It's right for God to any time he pleases. Wow, and they call me Also, although it isn't a From an article a friend of mine, This is the central part you hear people like Paul Since I believe in the that this was actually a huh. And those children once that God had issued to the Israeli armies The death of these children They were the recipients as a result of their being terminated. Dr. Collins, any response? One hopes that the Canaanites appreciated the honor. That was horrible. Doesn't bother me. Is this part over? Joshua's conquest of And the Lord said unto Joshua... You shall do to Ai and its king as you did to You shall do to Ai and its So it becomes, I never It becomes kind 12,000 men and all the people of Ai. 12,000 men, women, and children. Why doesn't God Please God, save the children. God has a plan. There's certainly at the very least and then of saying, Again? They totally destroyed them, not sparing anything and he burned up Hazor itself. Really? Unfortunately, yes. God is in total command here. You are to hamstring their Does God say stuff? I think I don't think I think I'm thinking in terms of what do human beings understand God to be expecting of them? I will leave nothing undone. Joshua destroyed them neither left they God, you really did that? They could have North and south were options too It's terrible. As the Lord commanded so did Moses command Joshua, and so did Joshua. He left nothing undone... of all the Lord had So they are truly assuming that this is what So Joshua took the to all that the Lord And Joshua gave it for according to their [ music Jericho [ door unlocks and squeaks ] [ door closes loudly ] And the land rested from war. Jesus. Did it ever happen? I wanted to ask that. The archaeological evidence the marauding Israelites in the massive slaughter I knew it. Our God In some respects, I would is more analogous to Aragorn killing the orcs Now, you don't like orcs. You want them all to die. If it's something then it's not the same thing It's not the Rwandan genocide. It's not the Holocaust. God didn't kill the Canaanites. It didn't happen. So we're okay. God's still perfect. You think so? Dr. Avalos, what do you think? It actually doesn't matter Huh?! It's the principle that you should kill people to and that you should kill people Those principles we should Whether they happened because the principle remains. The author believed that you should kill if their religion is different, or because God told you to Joshua's conquest of but history continues to see it entailed ideas about that were paralleled The liberation of the Israelites and the subjugation are two sides of the same coin. Read from the this was not a Oof. Irish guy knows nothing. Joshua battled wickedness. And if God commands kill... them... all... In fact there a millions who have no if the right people are [ audience nervous laughter ] So I think it is worthwhile to why we think genocide It's not wrong, if I command it. You seem quite fond My will be done. We also have narratives as actually undertaken as in First Samuel 15:1-3 Not more genocide! Slay both man and What's a suckling? I'm a suckling. Like Willy says, children die all Children die every day. Objections to genocide may But most I would think, come back to some Golden rule, I know that one! Jesus invented it. All things whatsoever ye do ye even so to them. That we should do unto others as we would have Christians may regard this maxim as a summary of the but some form of it can and ultimately it is a Did you catch that? The Golden Rule is No book needed. You need the Bible. But Jesus was after Krishna, after Buddha, after the Stoics. Way, way after me. It's in the Old Testament. That's why Dr. Collins "a humanistic principle" It is a humanistic principle. No book needed. Ha! You just watch. I Take it away from Then where will you be? 24-hour rape and There are no morals, Zeus you. of right and wrong The Bible is the ruler by Trusted for like It's so much like the song says, God says, sing it now! Give me that Give me that Give me that It's good enough for me In the ancient world We've witnessed God God commanding the You're just cherry-picking It's just Old Testament. None of it scares me, Satan. Not scared? Nope. I do have one... little thing And this should Child sacrifice? Only false gods do that. That's totally gross. My God is definitely not They get to the point where they're And if Israelites Did Israelite dads It is now widely recognized was practiced in ancient Israel much later than scholars of an Oh, boy. Exodus 22 appears to require The Judean Kings, are accused of child sacrifice. The practice cannot be dismissed but had venerable precedence Baloney! My God is not cool with for divine favors in That may be, but the God of the Bible is. Victory in battle is to your offering these In the eleventh chapter Jephthah, the leader who are at war More ites? from Canaan. Wanting to secure Jephthah makes a promise to God. If you give the whatever comes out to meet me when I Ammonites will be the Lord's and I will sacrifice The leader of the he will set fire to when he returns He will devote to the But of course it turns his only child, and.. I'm back And I won! Who's behind door number one? Welcome home, daddy! Oh, no, he didn't. But he did And he did to her It was good for It was good for It's good enough for me In a war context, when what's we have to assume that God appreciated Right! Okay, that's not good but everything you're cherry-picking Yeah, we already know the Old But the New Testament Uh-huh. Dr. Avalos? The New Testament is far That's totally crazy. How can you even say that? The Old Testament God but it was only for your [ audience laughter ] If read literally, Jesus those he dislikes Thus the violence is infinitely Being burned for eternity being hacked to That's a fair point. I guess I would over an eternal, torturous Hell. Total hypocrisy, Satan! What objective standard to criticize the Bible? Without the Bible, Beat it! Satan has no authority The Bible is the authority. What God says is moral is moral. What God says And it's he gets He's God and you're not. Ah, that's exactly it, Rick. I'm God You are Lord! and you're not. [ lightning crash ] Should morality be Dr. Avalos? The very idea that what you should How so? because now you're somebody writes is what As though it was Morality should not it should be based for the suffering of Let's shine a light on that. Morality should It should be based for the suffering of Nice opinion, flesh human. Empathy for the that's all we need Add in the humanistic Yeah we're good for now. That's it?! That's only two You got nothing You got to look And you got nothing about Once again, Satan, Hello. [ stop whistle ] Get back to me when Uh, authored? Yeah, authored. As in I'm about to author Students you already know I've got seminary secrets And we're going For there is one name, 'round the globe, globe, globe when it comes to issues Hearing just his last name, Daddy's blood Is it Obama? He is the most famous I give you UNC Chapel Hill's Bart fracking Ehrman Dr. Ehrman's middle Bart Denton Ehrman. And Christians on YouTube They're in a total You got people like our good friend here Big, bad, Bart Ehrman. [ canned laughter ] Yeah you know Bart. He's been on Comedy Central. He's published over 20 books. The best selling author See what Bart Ehrman see what Bart Ehrman The Orthodox how 'bout that one? That book right there it's Bart Ehrman in high school, he trusted Jesus Christ And how's it working today? He's like the premiere in the world right now. Our primary What happened to Bart? Demon trickery. I'm gonna take care of [ canned laughter ] The kinds of critical scholarship Those are things when they're if they go to a Mainline They're teaching Anyone who has I would say a Masters level would be well aware that Bart Ehrman It's standard stuff. EHRMAN: This is standard in all the mainline Christian across the country And yet most pastors who've don't tell their congregations Seminary secrets. Yep. Health insurance If Pastor Mark and he loses his health coverage, Yeah, if his kid breaks a Well, that is beautiful. And a whole lotta pie. Yummy. Get hurt. Here's seminary standard Standard stuff about authorship Prophecy! Daniel was stupendous. A total winner. Daniel made many predictions Proof the Bible is a Godly book. Admit it, Satan! Daniel did predict all Yeah. Hmm. I wonder how Daniel did it? By pretending to be someone an author could Huh? Pretending? Like doing impersonations? Excellent, Betty. You The book of Daniel the great wise man of B. C. me was actually written, in the some 400 years later. [ record scratch ] How? Liar. If the Book of Daniel was then that would mean Daniel did not author His name's on the book, Bart. The reality is that the author wasn't he was only He was actually living four hundred years later. You have a span and the Book of those events very accurately No wonder Daniel could predict the The author These prophecies After? This will happen, this will happen, He knew those things because he was living So he's not actually he's pretending to be somebody its prophecy after the fact. That seems kind of wrong. Why pretend like that? It's all a big set-up. Who's the mark? The reader. Your reader reads it and Everything you predicted So that then if what's going to it seems like that's because everything else If the predictions are down to the present, then they are likely to be All the after-the-fact build the reader's confidence What was the last prophecy? That an enemy king, Antiochus Epiphanies Did he? Where'd he die? Was it in Israel? Nope, not in Israel. And then the real prediction A failed prophecy?! In my book? In fact, the concluding prophecy of the death of the That's not right-minded Right-minded Just because the very last only means that it and will eventually be Daniel will eventually be Dare to make it known It could still happen. Now it seems very odd why a text should focus on and then skip the next So most critical scholars figured after the last event that Somebody impersonated And it wasn't Daniel. I should write Second Daniel! You know what Satan? You're attacking my book, saying Daniel did not Even though his Well, what about all your books? My books? How do we know the names on your books are from Yeah! Get him. Jesus. Satan's got fake writers. How do we know Huh? Huh? huh? How does anyone know You'd have to use a lot of You could look at my other work. You develop a sense of my style. Books have voices. And you can hear And people actually do Do they do it with this So for example the question about whether Second Thessalonians, often gets argued on Nearly half of the 27 claim the voice of Paul. Paul has the most books And there's something PAUL: My voice. At the end of his second letter to the Thessalonians I always sign my letters What is peculiar is that he claims I always sign my letters... even though he does most of his other including First Thessalonians. Wait, so Paul doesn't always What's going on? Second Thessalonians was Can the dead write letters? Why not? They vote all the time. There are 13 books that But scholars are that Paul did not write First and Second Three others of them are probably the majority that Paul did not Ephesians, and Of those 13 letters in the only seven are really from Paul. Ooof! Seven? Only seven? Seven, remember, is and if you're talking nothing's more perfect than eyewitness accounts. The Bible is primarily What's more real than Eyewitnesses, Satan. My apostles saw me do stuff. They wrote it down. perched at the rim My apostles saw it all. John was an apostle John was also an And he wrote the Gospel of John. And in Greek, a Did the Apostles go back overcome years of how to read and write become skilled in and then later pen the gospels? Yep, that's exactly Most scholars consider Somewhat unlikely? But not impossible. And I got impossible Hey, Jesus. Over here. Over here. It's me, Peter. Jesus' first follower, has his name on two Help! Help me, Please. I'm drowning. You don't have an Bart Ehrman Oh, only one. My asshole neighbor I can't even read! It's possible of course, that learned Greek became an accomplished writer, and moved to Rome But to most scholars, Forged? As in forgery? As in the Bible has zero Not even one? None. Forged, yeah. Get your Bart butt outta here. Lemme educate ya, children explain what's really going on They're just flesh and blood. Our real battle is with There are powers and principalities There is an unseen spiritual Invisible war that's happening This is a real war! And it is more real than the Everybody on this whether they know it or not. Dark spiritual forces, they have launched repeated, coordinated shoot the artillery Any attack on the or the Christ of the Bible Any attack on the truth of Even at this very moment, critical scholars continue and my book. It's time to take action! Me and my book will Could you just tell them to Confronting them won't help. Critical scholars are They're just pawns, they're You're just a tool of the enemy, but he needs your arms and mouth and lips to bring that about. And a lot of times they don't they don't even know But the real issue And you can't win it by just or something like that, This truly is a You gonna join us in the battle? I may never march... We wrestle not Spiritual warriors? Yes sir! The time is now! For this is a day of battle! Put on the whole armor of God! Put on the full armor of God His loins gird with And the sword is? There is only one thing The only offensive in spiritual warfare Reading the Bible is The sword of the spirit. But I'm in the Lord's army But, the Bible! What in God's name? [ loud applause ] OK, are we having any kind No Satan, we're not. That's why it's just not This is a spiritual battle and it has to be My God, Satan, get it You're wasting your time. How so? In war, it all boils Whose side you on? You're either with me, Jesus said he that is It's that cold, huh? It is. And everybody Not you. Nobody Checkmate, Satan! Go on home. Oh, but I still have one You know, why don't you just Who loves ya kids? Jesus loves me, this I know For the Bible... That's a little sharp, Eddie. You are going to want Am I? These secrets all Gossip and rumors! Big, big, big Jesus secrets. (yawn) You bore me, Satan Yes, Jesus loves me Oh, Eddie, volume Yes Jesus loves me Listen to the right hand! Yes Jesus loves me Eddie? Yes Jesus loves me Yes Jesus loves me Melody. Yes Jesus loves me The Bible tells... Oh would you look at that! It looks like, yep, there's a Jesus loves me... God's gotta go now. Heaven's gate... [ lightning crash ] Up to this point to the Bible's errant history, immoral morals and for this final round. [ boxing bell dings ] My opponent is not My opponent is Whoa! Nah uh. For reals? Ha! That's just fantastic! First you would believe that my book is errant, and now you would their Jesus was errant too? Jesus was never not perfect. You saying Jesus was I have over,.. about a I think he did wrong. I got a dozen chapters on Fry him! Silencing Dr. Avalos won't Seminaries have long taught What about the cemeteries? For a hundred plus years, Christian seminaries have The cemeteries say I'm wrong? Spectacularly wrong. Where? What subject? Apocalypticism? Apocuh-loptuh-what? Apocalypticism. Apoc-duh-lipic-cism? Apocalypticism. Apocalypticism? Apocalypticism was a in the first century. Such Jews believed they were living Some truly good people got a little too wild Lot more than some. Yet most people think predicting the end of the world. Instead, failed apocalyptic by the biggest stars That's Billy Graham. Yeah, Billy said the end Humans gonna human. Mr. Protestant Christianity himself Christopher Columbus Columbus, seriously? Francis of Assisi. Saint Patrick of Saint Game clover. Third century Christian Second century's Tertullian. Who who and who? And listening to you, Jesus. You got a little too wild with And you got a little blah blah Did you not preach Did you not preach Jesus was not a false prophet. You calling Jesus a liar? Pay no heed to Satan. Slanderous, deceitful, People will burn because I invent nothing. Christian seminaries teach it. Sorry, Satan, but Which part? Christian seminaries making failed prophecies. Failed apocalyptic prophecies Some of them that stand here... End of the world prophecies? That failed to come to pass. Christian seminaries teach that? About Jesus? That's a seminary secret? The biggest one! Jesus told his followers And soon didn't happen. That's the seminary's... If Jesus said that it would then he was wrong, Jesus was wrong? There's no scriptural proof It's not in the Bible. Jesus' failed prophecies Where? Hiding in plain site. What verse? Where? I'm going to show you. It's not in the Bible. Hey, first things first. Let's look at the reason this whole gigantic Shout out to me! Because Jesus. Jesus is the reason. Which leads us to the for all Christians. The resurrection! It's the single biggest It's the reason The resurrection! It's Jesus' resurrection! The Bible says Jesus of Nazareth was resurrected from the dead! Huh, no way you say?! The Bible says His body, vanished! God's not dead No! He's alive God's not dead No! He's alive God's not dead No! The earliest discussion we have of the by Paul in First Corinthians 15. God's not dead No! He's alive God's not... His argument is striking since he makes no The oldest mention comes from Christianity's The guy with the most Paul never mentions, I feel him in the Church I feel him on the street I feel... Hold on. Back up. Empty what? Tomb, dude. Toooomb. And then there Empty tomb. OK yeah, so? I was in here totally dead. And then, POOF! The tomb was empty. Uh, I'm sorry, who (sighs) Jesus. I will eternally be you never mention the central, core story about It is odd Paul never wrote It's super important to know. Maybe he just forgot about it. The empty tomb's in the You guys are so focused You're gonna miss I thought Jesus's resurrection So you got something bigger I do. Very soon, possibly tonight [ scary organ music ] All the tombs will be emptied. All the tombs. More than one tomb. [ scary organ music ] Resurrection in a first is not about some guy rising from It's about a corporate event. Corporate? It's kind of a group thing. [ scary organ music ] As a Jew, Paul was to the resurrection of the dead, an ancient belief. So stinky! What's the point Because everyone, dead or alive faces judgment [ scary organ music ] when The End comes. The final judgment The end of the world Before becoming a Christian, What would an if he or she came to believe that God had now raised someone? For Paul, the resurrection of Since one person has the rest cannot be far behind The End is at hand. Since the resurrection of the dead and since somebody had then The End must But The End It did for Paul. 1 Corinthians 15 where Paul with the general He's the first fruits. Thus, he speaks of Jesus as Christ has been the firstfruits of those If the harvest has started, then the rest of the Jesus was the first in the sense that all the others He goes back and forth between the general resurrection because they're not really yet two completely They become that the more time passes, well there's Jesus' and then there's ours down there but that's not what's two or three Paul and the early Jesus' resurrection was All the tombs. And the beginning of The End. The End could come tonight Like really tonight Tonight was a Undoubtedly, Paul felt, that even in his own lifetime. Wow. That would mean... Paul was wrong about The End? Wrong a lot, in multiple letters We which are alive and together with them in the [ Rapture Cloud Express ] We're going to a mansion on the rapture cloud express Pentecostals, Evangelicals, right this way. Young earth You're taking my baby? Sorry, no Episcopalians. I couldn't have done For Paul, the hour It had already struck in the He believed that he was and that he would be alive when Jesus returned from Heaven. Yep, looks like we're Don't worry, we'll The church that emerged in Early Christianity was It's the end of the world! We're still here, Paul, We which are alive and remain We're going to a mansion on the rapture cloud express Paul was key to Only Jesus outranks me. But Paul, got Jesus wrong. Jesus' resurrection was not the Jesus' resurrection was What's with all Early Christianity was Bathed, and baptized. John the Baptist, like Paul, John baptized Jesus! In the Jordan River. Awe, I hate baths. Then cometh Jesus unto John to be baptized of him. Jesus went out into wilderness But why did he go? 'Cause I'm rad. John's rad too. Most followers on the Jordan. This is on its face a that Jesus followed Did not the former submit because the former believed He must have gone to John because he agreed What is your message, Baptist? The ax is laid unto Judgment is imminent the ax is at the The axe is laid at In other words, the lumberjack is ready Is that good? Can't say the I never got to Weren't all the First century Jewish expected a first century ending. Soooo, yes? So what! So there's a lot of apocalypticism Now watch this. The only connection and the apocalyptic was Jesus himself. I do bring people together. How could both the beginning and the end be apocalyptic if the middle was not as well? It would be surprising indeed, Jesus himself must have An errant Jewish apocalypticist. [ thud ] Oh sure, why not? I mean when you pair of course you're gonna You are the only that connects Two wrongs making me right. John, was wrong The ax is laid unto Paul, wrong again. We which are alive and remain shall be caught up to And you too, J-Man. Your book has you saying The End would happen Bull-pucky! The Bible says no such thing. You said you had Show us! The Bible verses, Satan. I bet the seminary guy He just might. Dr. Allison, could you where Jesus makes failed Well, one is Mark 9:1 which says there are some standing here they see the kingdom of There be some of Standing where? Standing here! Zip it, Satan. Keep it down. OK, what about us? Some of you shall 'til they have seen come with power! Oh, and what happened next?! As would become for Christian people Nothing happened. The kingdom of God... ... did not come with power. My Study Bible says the kingdom of God Wow, how did I miss that? Was it invisible? Well, yeah, kind of. The Holy Ghost coming that was the kingdom of God! When some of Jesus' first And now for us Christians today, Where Jesus is. My Papoo's in Heaven. Many people today think that the That you die and your and so that's the which is the kingdom of God. But it's not what early First century Jewish apocalypticists a physical kingdom of God Heaven on Earth? We still get to fly? Early Jewish apocalypticists, such as the author the Book of Revelation, thought that the kingdom of A restoration that would Inhabited by the Did Daddy's battle end all war? Yeah, that's cute Jesus talks about in the coming kingdom of God. And I will not drink henceforth until that day when I drink it new Jesus talks about people being people being thrown out When ye shall see in the kingdom of God, and It's the place here on Earth So, no bird sushi? Do you want to be thrust out? Maybe. That's harsh. Jewish apocalypticists was a physical kingdom. And for Jesus, the It is pretty evident that lived with what a millenarian vision There's also the famous You will not have finished cities of Israel until But when they flee into another. For verify I say unto you, ye shall not have gone 'til the son of man be come. Before going through The End will come? How many cities Gotta be a couple billion. Mark once again has Jesus during his testimony And ye shall see the son of man and coming in the Wait, the right hand of what? The son of man, sitting And doing what exactly? And coming in the Mm hmm. Okay. The court recognizes The kingdom of God and no one saw the son of He's right. I never saw nobody And my eyes never closed. Like John the Baptist before the Bible quotes Jesus would be the last generation. Jesus did not speak which might just as well For him salvation His generation, upon whom the would be the last generation. Uh, one more time His generation, upon whom the would be the last generation. Verily I say unto you shall not pass 'til all Which generation was that? This generation, that generation I mean whose But the other thing is that the Gospels are full of There's a great interest There are dozens of sayings and parables that are And if you think about it's just the case that people who talk this much about The End think of it as near. Not 2000 years into the future? That's it! People are not this interested in something unless it's Jesus, like other readied the people for Jesus was wrong. You're going to hell, Betty. It's the seminary secret, Jen. The apocalyptic Jesus! Wait 'til the bros Hear about this Wait 'til Pastor He already knows. Some Christians Jesus made a super You're fired. Goodbye health insurance. Get hurt. I feel sick. That's it. Seriously I'll uh, I'll make my Students, the honor And I leave you now Four and go, Satan! Run for the hills. Did you say run? Run for the hills? Why? What are you trying to say? I'm for sure getting grounded. Look kids, I can And it grieves me, how easily Satan was Satan sows doubt. He said so himself. So why are you thinking Out with it! No more secrets. Bobby, you first. Did the Exodus Well, remember Chicago? I got a perfect ten Were Israelites just Canaanites? Ites, schmites Did the Canaanites Yeah, that was a How about all those Forgery's such an Were you cool with Hell yeah, like hello?! Did you really pick No one can say to God, you should have Am I allowed to ask God why? Because I totally thought Great moral teachers Apocalypticists were. Could you nix the couple of And all of Joshua Cause genocide is wrong, right? Right-minded readers But what about read right Daniel being wrong. And not even being Daniel! For reals. How can there be fake And how can Paul be wrong John the Baptist too... Come on! Were you But your book quotes about a dozen chapters Were you wrong about Did you think the This generation shall not pass. [ TV powers off ] Maybe you didn't say that stuff? [ Jesus imitates phone ringer ] Is it really true that Oh that's my It's, it's my attorney. Your phone is not on. Were you errant, Jesus? Hey kids, I gotta bounce, Later. Jesus was wrong. It's right for God to slaughter women You think those fishermen Children die all the time I'm gonna take a stab Oh, please... Out of the Midwest will He's perfectly right to His fame will Smashing babies, so unnecessary. If the Good Book is bad... How do we be good? How do we be good? Satan's 2 Commandments? Our morals should Empathy for the suffering And the Golden Rule! it is a humanistic principle. No book needed. No book needed. No book needed. Depart from me, you evil-doers. Jen?! [ low thud ] [ low thud ] I never knew you. Inerrant. Inerrant. We should have ran. For the hills. For the hills. We shoulda ran for the hills. For reals. This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine.