It's been 120 years since Henry Cavendish pair of lead balls suspended by a wire. The fundamental nature of gravity still eludes revealed by turning back to the Cavendish That steampunk contraption may even reveal Gravity is by far the most familiar of the with it every day. It's no surprise that it was the first force to get a decent mathematical description with Isaac Newton's Law of Universal Gravitation But what is surprising that nearly 500 years of the four forces. It just doesn't seem to gel with the other One big difference is that the strength of - I'm talking 10^24 times weaker than even the weak nuclear force. This mismatch is known as the hierarchy problem, may help us figure out what gravity really But like I said, despite the mysteries about theories still describe how gravity behaves Einstein's general theory of relativity has of gravity in terms of the warping of the But even Newton's old theory works great And deviations from Newton's description than Einstein's. The key is in understanding the inverse square Newton's law of gravitation is an example the gravitational force drops off with the objects. If we have a massive object, we can depict object as little arrows pointing towards the The density of the arrows at a given distance field. So as you get further away, those arrows are and so the strength of gravity drops. The arrows get spread out over the surface center. So the density and the strength of the gravitational that sphere - that's 4 pi r^2. That's where the r^2 comes from on the bottom So gravity sort of gets diluted in strength a 2-D spherical surface within our 3-D space. If our universe were 2-dimensional - say, out over the circumference of concentric circles just be inversely proportional to radius - it And if our universe had more dimensions, say "surface" of a 4-D hypersphere - that an inverse cube law - that's a faster drop In general, gravity drops off as 1/r to some dimensions minus one. Cool - so we have a way to test how many dimensions Newton's inverse square law for gravity I ... guess we already knew that. Except for the fact that some of the most the other forces actually propose that there these additional dimensions may explain the of the gravitational force. So let's talk about dimensions a bit more. We perceive a 3-D universe, but most of our them - walking across your 2-D floor, driving We explore a 2-D landscape embedded in a 3-D Now we perceive the 3rd dimension, but perhaps in a higher dimensional space that we can't Well actually, that's probably not the case. In fact we saw in a previous episode how a LIGO seemed to rule out the possibility of But there's a caveat - that experiment only And by large I mean they stretch out over dimensions. But there's another possibility - the extra words, wound up very small. In that case, gravity would only deviate from of these compactified dimensions. Take another look at the surface you're It seems like a 2-dimensional surface, but is made up of 3-D particles, and if we zoomed scale, we would see a wildly varying, 3-dimensional We don't notice this because of the vast Another example would be a long, thin tube. It looks 1-dimensional from a distance, but surface - extended in one dimension, but looped And that's the sense in which there may 3 extended dimension, but others that are physics. The most famous example of compactified extra superstring theory there are 6 additional point in the extended 3-D universe. But the idea of compact extra dimensions is by Oscar Klein in the 1920s as part of what attempts to unify electromagnetism with gravity. Although we've never detected these extra solution to unifying gravity with the other weakness. There are different ways of thinking about the strength of gravity. One is that you can imagine the gravity trying which would dilute it more quickly. We can also think about it as gravity producing that sap its energy. On large scales, gravity would still follow due to the hidden extra dimensions - and that compared to other forces. And on small scales these extra dimensions off with distance - but to see that you'd scales that are within spitting distance of So, to search for these hidden dimensions, length scales. Lots of different approaches have been tried, the most promising - because it's also the It's actually the OG - the experiment first of gravity - or the G in Newton's law of It's the Cavendish experiment, performed The apparatus for the experiment was actually John Mitchell - the same guy who first hypothesized But Mitchell died before he could conduct and improved the device, and actually made The Cavendish experiment looked like this: long, thin, metal wire. A lead ball was attached to each end of the The whole contraption was then free to rotate This is an example of a torsion pendulum - where cause the whole apparatus to oscillate. The amazing thing about the torsion pendulum wire is very thin, then very tiny forces will the restoring force. The amount of twist tells you precisely how So, Cavendish placed large masses near each The gravitational attraction between these torsion pendulum ever so slightly, and by made the first measurement of the gravitational The device was so sensitive that it had to even the gravitational influence of other He measured the displacement through a telescope This allowed him to measure a force of gravity 10 million times smaller than the force the The meticulous care paid off--Cavendish measured our modern value, with 1% uncertainty. His measurement remained the most precise Not only did this contribute to our understanding of a grand tradition in physics of making the fundamental nature of the universe. Modern Cavendish experiments look quite a first apparatus. The experiment is now typically done in a electrostatic and magnetic shielding. The geometry of modern devices allow more and the displacement of the masses is measured through a hole in the wall. In some cases, rotating masses produce oscillations These incredible advances have led to a modern These advances have also allowed us to place close together, as close as 50 micrometers Now that's still quite a bit larger than but we'd still expect a tiny and perhaps law several orders of magnitude larger than on other factors - most importantly depending with these extra dimensions. So, how many dimensions are there? Well, still just three. The inverse square law seems to hold down And while that may seem anticlimactic, it's theories and constraining the space of possibility We are still nowhere near being able to probe string theory though, and so string theorists So what's next? Well, to build better Cavendish-style experiments. Things get complicated below about 1 micrometer force comes into play. This is the negative pressure due to the exclusion between two very closely separated plates. But there are other ingenious approaches that For now, we'll have to content ourselves with what were they again? space, space space, So this is pretty amazingly unbelievable. This little show about hardcore physics and Honestly - it warms all our hearts to know there. We should, like, all hang out some time - you OF course if we did hang out we'd be a whole city. In fact we looked it up. We'd be the 238th largest city in the world. And growing. That's right, we're coming for you Maltan, far too long. For now, I just want to thank you from the And speaking of support, I want to give an and most especially to Christina Oegren, who's Christina, with your great generosity and appoint you mayor of spacetime city. Because no one said spacetime city was a democracy, In last week's episode we talked about the horizon of a rotating black hole - regions string of parallel universes. Unsurprisingly, thoughts were had and comments Zoltan asks for clarification - really, confirmation get from traveling through black holes has by quantum physics. Zoltan, you have it right. The quantum multiverse is what you get when which implies that the universe splits at That multiverse may or may not be real. Now the multiverse through the black hole arises the black hole mathematically. I'd say the second multiverse is less likely almost certainly a mathematical figment, arising really exist. On a related note: Polygondwanaland asks how and how much is broken math. Well, the universe on the other side of the - which I suppose you can call broken math But really, the math is just fine - the problem the math too far. After all, the universe may be incredibly that doesn't mean the universe is the math. The quality of the predictions of any model And in the case of the black holes, several geodesics into alternate universes. For example, the parallel universe through requires the assumption that the black hole And the string of universes through the rotating the impossibly unstable inner structure of But you're totally right, Polygondwanaland: an infinite string of universes or a time our physical understanding astray, and that's seems to conspire to prevent these things And to wrap up - my favourite joke in the was this. Instead of &quot;You're in for a weird time." I should have said &quot;I'm in for a weird space!&quot; the blackhole. At least I can live vicariously through the