So the speedrun definitely is getting more interesting and the games have a lot more meat on the bone. We're 1355. Hopefully we get a couple games with Black so we can really flesh out some, uh, accelerated dragon theory. Let's roll the cameras. Hope you guys can hear hear me fine. Let me know, because I m always want to make sure that when I do YouTube videos, the sound is okay. So if I'm peeking or something, let me know. But it should be good. Singular 1400. And we're facing the English c four. Now, my recommendation against one D Four is going to be well, I actually haven't decided yet whether I'm recommending the King's Indian or the GRUNFELD. I'm leaning toward recommending the GRUNFELD as my official recommendation against one D Four openings. Now against C four, if you want to be a principal to Andy, you have to learn E Five, right? So the way that I'm building this opening repertoire for you in the speed run, I'm trying to teach you the most principled lines, the lines that are going to annoy your opponent the most. And even if your rating is on the lower side, you want to avoid taking opening shortcuts, right? And it's easy to take a shortcut and say, hey, I'm a Queen's gamma declined player. I'm going to go e six and d five here. Absolutely nothing wrong with that. But if you want to play principal chess, the move that really takes it to White is E Five. And here there's a fork in the road, which we'll talk about after the game. Uh, I'll give you a little bit of context on English opening theory. Of course, you can think of this as a reversed closed Sicilian. So NZ three is the main move. And here, once again, black has a bunch of different viable setups. There's the move Bishop, F Eight to B Four, which, if you've watched my blitz games, you'll notice that I play this move almost exclusively, but it leads to some incredibly complex positional struggles. And I think a simpler line, a more approachable line for players of intermediate level, is just to develop the knight, for now, to F Six. This does not commit to any system of development in particular. Well, that's not totally true. It, uh, prevents us from pushing our pawn to F Five, which constitutes a rather ambitious but viable response to the English. So we're precluding the possibility of F Five. And here, once again, another fork in the road for Black. There's a bunch of different possibilities. Here, we're going to play the move D Five, uh, in this game, reaching a reverse accelerated dragon. That's really how you should think of this opening. It's an accelerated dragon where White is an extra tempo, and of course, black is playing white. There's, of course, the move Bishop Before here as well, which is similar to Bishop before in the previous move. You can just continue developing with knight C six. But after the game, I will show you a typical scenario that often happens to players who are not familiar with English theory. The dangerous thing about this setup from Black's perspective is that if you just develop your pieces without a second thought, if you just put your pieces on natural squares very often, you actually end up getting under serious positional pressure. And I'll give you a couple of examples of that after the game. So, in this case, we are going to play the most principled move, which is D. I'm going to write down some stuff to not forget it. Show examples of misplaying. All right? And obviously, we take back with the knight and Bishop G two. So our opponent continues to follow the natural path. Now, here you might be tempted extrapolating from, uh, the theory of the accelerated dragon to play the move Bishop E six. But it's important to remember that we are down at Tempo. So Bishop E six here is actually inaccurate, I think, for several reasons. Uh, but most importantly, it allows white to strike with an early D, which leads to tension in the center that black is not entirely prepared for, because black is the one down at Tempo. So the move here, it's not C six either, because, again, C six allows D four. We want to play a clever move that prevents D four and increases our clamp on the D four square. In fact, the battle is going to revolve in the opening largely around our ability to prevent, first and foremost, the D pawn break. And that is why we drop our night back to B six. We also don't take on C three because that trade in the Sicilian and by extension, in the reverse Sicilian, plays right into White's hands. It increases white's control of the center and it helps white push D four, and it opens the B file, which you might notice there is a B seven pawn that the Bishop is already pressuring night F three. We obviously respond with Knight two, C six defending the pawn and once again preventing D four. And then our dark squared Bishop. In such positions. A little context for people watching on YouTube. I just played a long blitz session, and I was talking about how a lot of chess GMs and commentators, they like to use the phrase in such positions, especially with the Russian acts, okay? In such positions, these bones and in such pasdians, the plan is typical. Yeah. Okay. And I think it's an overrated phrase because even the players and people who use that phrase don't exactly know what it means. Um, so in such positions, the dark squad Bishop belongs on E seven. In this precise position, the darkscored Bishop belongs on E seven and only on E seven. What are the other possibilities of development? Well, we could play Bishop D six, but once again, I'm a broken record but Bishop D six walks right into D four. Now, the move bishop C five is harder to refute, and it might make sense from a logical standpoint, right? You're just making it even harder for White to push D four. But the bishop on C five, you might notice, is vulnerable to several different things. First and foremost, there's this idea of playing A three, B four that you should be familiar with if you're a Sicilian player. There's also, uh, the annoying night jump to E four. A white could also put the queen on C two and X ray the bishop. So you should notice that the bishop on C five just is a little bit unsafe. And so we want to develop a little bit more modestly here with bishop E seven, all right? And then we want a castle. And then we want to bring the other bishop out usually to E six, as White often does in the Sicilian. Of course, you could also bring it out to G four. But the bishop on G four in such positions doesn't really do anything. And when I say in such positions here, I mean positions with a fee and ketoed bishop, right? You could play Bishop g four. But it's a paper tiger that pin is not dangerous at all. White plays e three. Okay? So here it's important to talk about the idea, uh, of changed circumstances, right? I just talked a lot. I talked up a storm about the importance of preventing D four. So extrapolating from that, you might say, hey, E three threatens D four. Well, let's stop D four at all costs. And you might come up with an idea like queen to D three. Or you might say. Well, let's go. Bishop G. Four. Let's try to pin this knight to make D four as difficult as possible. But pawn moves change the structure. And so you have to reassess the danger level of these ideas when the structure changes. And what you might notice is that after White plays D four in this version, that's not nearly as dangerous as it was just a couple of moves ago. Because here we trade on D four. White has to recapture with the pawn eventually. And what kind of structure do we reach as a result? Well, that's called the IQP structure, the isolated queen pond structure. And a shorthand way of evaluating who's better in an IQ structure is to see who controls the square in front of the isolated queen pawn and just to look to see whether the side with the isolated pawn has attacking chances against the opposing side's king, which is often the appeal of flying an IQP structure. And here, in both cases, this, uh, position favors us in queen D three, by the way. Not a bad move at all. Not a bad move at all. It's a high level move. But in this game, we're going to play it simple, and we're actually going to allow the move D four. And what I'm going to attempt to show you is that in the resulting position, we control the D five square and we control the keys to the kingdom. Our opponent confidently blitzes out D four. We take on D four, and of course, whitekit can take back with a knight, but we're just going to trade knights. And potentially we're even going to trade queens. I'm not totally sure we're going to trade queens. There what we'll see. We'll cross that bridge if we get there. But, um, our opponent takes back with a pawn. I actually think knight takes D four might have been the only clear path to equality for White. And I'll show you guys why afterward. What is the key move in this position? It's harder to shoot at a moving target. Remember that. And it's important to pile up on the square in front of the IQP. So what developing move fits the bill here? Well, if we play 95 immediately, right, it's less important to occupy the square than it is to control it. And don't confuse occupying a square with controlling it. These are two separate things. If you play 95, what you're allowing is knight takes D five, queen takes D five, and then a night jump to E five, opening up a discovery on the queen. And things get really unpleasant. We kind of slip away from the ledge. The move is bishop E six. Bishop to F six is interesting. You're attacking the pawn, but you're still allowing the pawn to push forward to D five. Now, you might say, hey, in that position, you have night before. And I agree, bishop F six is actually a great move here. But we're trying to play sort of strict positional chess. I'm trying to play by the rules, kind of lack of creativity. And that's by design. So hopefully we'll get a chance to outplay our opponent in this position. So we have achieved what we set out to do. I would say that black is maybe only a tiny smidge better. Uh, maybe the position is still even equal because the IQP in this case is not a big weakness for white. White can defend it quite easily with bishop E three. So it's not like white is losing the spawn imminently, um, but it is somewhat of a liability. Of course, white has the major asset, as they do in the English, which is this fiance, bishop, uh, which sits on a very nice, long diagonal. But our pieces are also very nicely positioned. Everything is very compact. Everything is close to the center. And we've got many more ways to improve our position. You should already, just by looking at this for a couple of moments, identify a bunch of ways in which you can, a, intensify the pressure on the isolated queen pun, and B, simply improve your position and bring more pieces into the game. And there's kind of a classic way to continue doing that. What am I talking about? What's the sort of very traditional follow up in such positions? There is bishop f six, once again, by the way, but I'm talking about queen d seven, and we just have to test that. Queen d 795, we can trade. And white does get rid of the IQP there. So that is a drawback of queen d seven. It's the move knight to e five in response, and then after the trade, white takes back with a pawn. And I'm not entirely sure what to make of the resulting structure. So that might be something that's worth dodging. Maybe we should start with the move bishop f six and hit the pawn first and control the e five square. So let's calculate bishop f six. I'm a little bit concerned about this weird looking move, knight c three to e four, which seems to invite black to take the pawn. On d four, we capture d four. But if you keep calculating after knight takes d four, knight takes d four. The night from e four jumps into c five. That's a lot of arrows. That's a long line. But at the end of the line, the night on z four is loose. The pawn on b seven is hanging. So that just doesn't inspire confidence. But after bishop f 694, bishop takes d four, knight takes d four, we can actually take on d four with the queen. And the point of inducing a queen trade is that in the resulting position after queen d 494 95, and this will be impressive if somebody can get this, what is black's move in that resulting position? Hopefully you were able to follow along. What's black's move in the position after night c five with the queen's off the board? What does black have? It's night c two. There's a fork on c two. And even if you didn't visualize the line, you should see that the rooks are on forkable squares of blacks knight from d four jumps into c two. And so on the basis of this line, and I will say that at a grandmaster level, the position is entirely unclear. I think our opponent has done a phenomenal job in the opening thus far, but white has more at stake here. If he goes wrong, okay, if white makes a couple of passive moves, he's going to slip into passive mode. Bishop e three played. And once again, we think about queen d seven. But yet again, queen d seven runs into 95, unfortunately. And after 95 d e five, we lose the pawn on, uh, b seven at the end of the line. So I actually still don't want to go queeny seven. I amend what I just said. But what we can do instead is increase our control of the square in front of the IQP. And the more familiar you are with typical plans in IQP structures, the more fluent, you will be at, ah, finding these types of ideas. What we're going to do here is a very typical move, knight C six to B four. And don't be fooled by the aggressive appearance of this move. This achieves the same thing that 97 would achieve. It's just that 97 allows the extra option of knight F three to G five. Right. We're keeping a very close eye on this night on F three because by moving it, white is opening up the long diagonal, which could be unpleasant. Now, uh, you might say, well, what about 95 here? Well, 95 doesn't make contact anymore with any of Black species, so it's less dangerous. We can just leave that night sitting on e five. It's not really bothering us. And the night from B four can drop back to D five, establishing what's called the blockade. And once the blockade is established, well, that's a step in the right direction. Um, queen C eight was a very good move, actually. Queens C eight and rook D eight would have put the rook on an X ray with the White queen. Maybe it was even the best move. I'm not claiming that I'm playing this in the best way. So we quickly dropped the knife back to e five. And I think a grandmaster approach for White would be to play knight C three to E four and aim the knight for this very juicy square on C five. That's kind of annoying. And our opponent is firing on all cylinders. Okay, let's think. I kind of like the move queen to C eight here with Black. Basically, we are not so worried about dropping our bishop. I mean, I don't love giving up the bishop. And so bishop E seven comes to mind. But bishop E 795 hits the bishop, hits the B seven upon at the same time. And that's a little bit iffy. So let's actually calculate bishop P seven NC five. Now, we can take the bishop on e three in that resulting position. Then the Rook Recaptures. Ah. Uh, and then we have a nice little reshuffling. I think I found something promising. I think I found something promising, but it's complicated. And I think White has a way to bail out into equality there nonetheless. Bishop, e seven. Knight, C five. Knight takes e three. Rook takes e three. And then we just play bishop E six to D five. We can also do this immediately. We can replace the knight with the bishop. Knight takes E three and then bishop D five in this position. Does that idea kind of make sense? What we're trying to do is take the sting out of the move knight E four to C five, which with the bishop already on, um, D five, no longer carries a threat. So I actually think this might be the simplest approach, but we're going to start see, the problem with knight takes e three is that it allows f takes C three, and White essentially on IQPs his pawn. This is a positive pawn structure transformation for White. We're going to play Bishop p seven. I need to accelerate my pace just a little bit. I'm running off at the mouth here. Um, so we're going to wait for knight C five and then play Knight takes C three. And the idea of switching the move order like that is that in that position, if White plays Fe three, we can snap the knight off the board and ruin White's pawn structure permanently. Bishop takes C five, DC, and then the knight can jump into C four and start harassing a bunch of White's pawns. The position remains extremely unclear there, but it seems to me that black has perhaps a slightly easier game. So, yeah, this is definitely thus far. There was one guy we played in a rosalimo, if you remember, a couple of videos ago, where our opponent basically hung with me on equal terms for most of the game. And thus far, I have to give major props to my opponent. Black is not better here. I think I misvaluated this slightly. I was a little over optimistic based on the fact that we have control of the square in front of the IQP, but my opponent is convincing me otherwise. What White is doing so expertly is using the IQP and making the most of it right. When you've got a weak pawn, you have to compensate for that with active piece play. And this is precisely what White is doing. White is playing very actively, doing everything he can to disrupt the coordination of our pieces. And this is almost a blunder, but it's not. Oh, my gosh. Night G five. So it looks like a blunder. Why? Because knight takes E three snaps off the defender of the G five knight. But our opponent sees Knight takes E six in return, which leads to more complications. Knight takes D eight, knight takes D one, night takes D eight. And if Knight takes B two, the knight takes on B seven, and White is okay. So one simple option for black here is to play knight takes E three, night takes C six, take the queen, and then simply take the knight on D eight. And after rookie takes D one, we play the move like C six, and perhaps black is just a tiny bit better, but that's going to be a tough end game to win. That's going to be a tough end game into one. The alternative in this position is, of course, to play Bishop F five. What we do not want to allow is Knight takes C six. And this is a tough decision even for me. So let me think about this for a second. I like the look of Bishop F five. I feel like Knight G five is a paper tiger. I feel like this is a paper tiger. And I think we should keep the pieces on the board. Let's give it a shot. I don't see a follow up for White. I think White has succumbed slightly to one movie and has granted us an important tempo because now, of course, Nike C Three is a massive threat, actually. Very easy to blunder, right? Very easy to forget that this is a move, because our opponent might fall into the illusion that, oh, the knight on D Five is our strongest piece, so we're not going to give it away. Very common reason for blunders. When you make a positional assumption, oh, one piece is stronger than another, so the trade is not going to happen. Right? I think you kind of see what I'm saying, but you fail to evaluate the position concretely and to see that the trade is warranted for tactical reasons. Now, White is experiencing some logistical problems here because apart from Knight Takes E Three, both of our bishops are making contact with both of our opponents knights, which is not a pleasant scenario for White. The best move here for White and, and it's not an easy move for, you know, for, for a, for a newer player to play and not because, you know, not trying to to condescend. This is just an objectively difficult thing to do is just to kind of make a Zen move like Bishop E Three back to C One. And I think this is what White should actually play. And the point is to prevent Knight Take C Three. And if we play H Six in that position, which we very well might, then I just drops back to F three and there we go, right? I kind of called it. Our opponent just collapses. He's unable to deal with everything that's going on in short circuits and gives us a free piece. We have several ways to win the piece. We can play Knight takes C three because the knight on G five is literally now hanging. But while we're at it and White is going to get a pawn for the piece, right? What we don't want to do is play Bishop Takes G Five first. That would be a huge mistake because then if you look very carefully, well, actually, maybe we can get away with that move. But white as night takes g five. Oh, actually, that's an interesting idea. No, it doesn't work. Bishop takes G five. Knight takes D five. Knight takes D five. Bishop takes G five. And our queen is overextended. We're going to end up giving back the knight on D Five. So let's play it simple and let's do what we originally intended and just play Knight takes you three. And yes, we are allowed allowing White to improve his structure. By the way, the same would have been the case after Knight Takes C three. It would have done the other thing on the other side, leading to what's called a hanging pawn structure. But what I like here is that we have the bishop pair. I love that we have the bishop pair, and we have an extra bishop, and we have an extra dark squirt bishop. And the reason that's important is because the pawn on E three has now become a target. Essentially, the target has shifted one file to the left from the IQP to now the pawn on E three, which can be easily targeted with a knight from C four, with a rook from E eight. And if we can get White to play E four, another kind of, uh, idea that a lot of players will stumble on, they think, oh, this is an intimidating move. No, it's not, because now, once again, the target has shifted, and again the target has shifted to the D four pawn. White's center may seem imposing, but it's actually a massive liability. We have an extra piece, and we can easily use our minor pieces to harass White's Center and provoke more weaknesses. But we got to be careful about how we do it. The careless bishop G six actually loses the piece. Who can tell me why? What happens after bishop G six? And don't worry, I will speed up just a little bit here in the late middle game, which means I might not explain as thoroughly, but these couple next moves are still important. What happens after bishop back to G six? Yeah, h four. And we're going to have to sack our bishop for two pawns, because if we move our bishop back there, white can actually throw in E five and then H five. And we want to avoid that with a ten foot pull. Yeah, we do. So instead, we should move the bishop on this diagonal. Uh, where should we go? Well, we can go back to E six, but then that allows D five with tempo. So I think we shouldn't hesitate to play what may seem like an awkward move. Actually, the more I look at this, I think bishop C eight was actually the best move. Just drop the bishop back to its initial square, but leave open the queen's contact with the D four pawn. And later on, we're going to redeploy that bishop as necessary. Bishop D seven is also good. We're up a piece, for goodness sakes. And this has the benefit of being able to put the bishop on C six in the event that White pushes the EPON, which, knowing player around 1400, I think he might be tempted by E five. I also think he might be very tempted by the one Mvitas move, H ah four, which is no longer dangerous and which will send our bishop back to E seven. Big whoop. Right? Our pieces are temporarily a little bit passive, so what's going to be our our kind, uh, of broad plan here? It's hard to talk about a plan because the position is very volatile. Right. It can change in a variety of ways. And that will, in turn, change our approach, why I can push the deep pawn or the ePawn or why you can play on the King side. So it doesn't make sense here to come up with a specific plan for Black. But on a broad level, the way in which we can improve our position is, uh, to make moves such as C Six, Queen C Seven, and bring the rooks into the game. I think that's an important step, which all plans are going to share in common, is that the rooks, ultimately, we're going to try to put on D Eight and on E eight to create the backbone of the pressure that we're ultimately going to put on White's Center pawns. We're also going to be very attentive to the moment that White pushes one of the center pawns. The moment he does so, it creates weaknesses, square weaknesses. If White plays z five, we can take out the fianceto. Bishop. With bishop c six. Okay. 92 is super passive, and it's not imposing at all. And this gives us a chance to really take the initiative away from White's hands. We have a super high level positional move here, which we're going to make, and I'm going to explain the logic behind it. Now, first thing I see is that 92 has a concrete drawback. Okay, what is its concrete drawback? Well, it allows a check on E three, which I know some of you guys are seeing, but the check alone isn't that effective. Bishop B Three. King h one. But you can combine that check with an idea that aims at chipping away at White Center. Right. You can ship away at White Center, and I call this carving out. What you're doing is you're provoking a pawn move in order to create a a weakness on a color complex. In this case, obviously, the color complex we want to weaken are, uh, the dark squares because we have an extra dark squared bishop. So how do we induce a weakness on the dark square complex? What we need to provoke is the move D. If we provoke that move, what I want you to notice is that all of these dark squares in the center become really weak, particularly the E Five square, which can be used as an outpost for either the knight or the Bishop. So how do we provoke White into playing D Five? There's a couple of ways to do it, but there is one super classy tactical move that we can play, and some of you are already seeing it. I did not mention Bishop E three by accident. This plays an integral role in the tactical justification. It's not Bishop C Six, because that doesn't actually create any threats. It is the move. C seven. C Five. And of course, the tactical part is that if White plays DC, we fork the pawn with our Bishop, bishop E three, we can recapture it, and you might. Say, well, why is that good? Well, that's good because it trades upon it. It opens up the center, and when you're up a piece, that's exactly what you want. We have achieved what we want here, and we have two approaches. We can occupy the square with our bishop. We can play bishop F Six, or we can play the sexy looking night C Four and throw a knight onto E five, which looks absolutely fantastic. And that's actually what we're going to do. Let's go night C four, and we're keeping the bishop on G five. Maybe Bishop E three will come in handy. I think night C Four is more flexible and it's more aggressive, and it should be self evident to all of you why the night on E five is such a monster piece. An outpost like that just sits on the position. It makes it impossible for White to do anything. It takes the bishop on G two entirely out of commission. And you're beginning to see, hopefully, why it is that people make such a big fuss out of weakening squares and weakening complexes of squares. And a square complex is just a set of dark squares. In this case, the complex is in the center, right? E five is weak, but also E three is weak and D four is weak. And B Two, one could argue, is weak as well. So it's the set of dark squares in the center that White has weakened. And so by occupying it, we hold the keys to the kingdom. We hold total dominance over the board. Again, if you're newer and you're watching this, I don't really understand how this square thing works. You don't really need to. What you need to know right now is that square control is important, and you sort of need to familiarize yourself with the concept of a square complex. Okay? So an important moment has occurred. Let's forget about this pawn for a second. I'm not interested in that pond. What I'm interested in is to prevent the move E four, E five, because that's how a square complex weakness is eradicated, right? You push a pawn onto the square, and you sever our control over that square. So we can do a couple of things. We can play the move 95 and literally put our knight on E five. That's the simple idea. But what I really like is actually now to drop our bishop back to F six. Okay? Again, we're trying to keep maximum flexibility. We're keeping the night on C four for the time being. Maybe we'll drop it back to E five, but also we're attacking B two, and if White gives us a chance, I mean, we might take it with our bishop and Jeffrey in the chat, by way. Thank you for that. We have Jeffrey Jean, uh, leading American grandmaster, participating in the chat live. So I feel the need to step up my own game, which is awesome. Um, so big shout out. If you're watching on YouTube, make sure to follow. I'm going to shamelessly Shield. Jeffrey's New. Uh, twitch stream. Twitch TV shakes Totally worth the follow. You see, I'm totally corrupt. I just promote my friends and that's it. People don't realize I'm not interested in ExpressVPN because friends get priority. Knight to d three. Okay, so what do we do now? Well, first, we identify the threat. The threat is obviously E five. We have a gazillion ways that we can meet this threat. You guys are probably thinking, let's go night E five. But we're going to do it in a slightly more classy manner. Okay, what we're going to do well, what we're going to do is something very obvious, and you should see this possibility. There's a pawn. That pawn is hanging. And this will take a little bit of calculation. What pawn is hanging? Well, knight takes B two, right? Knight takes b two. Let's calculate. Can white play e five. No, because white loses the queen. So after Night takes B two, which we're going to play white has to recapture. Then we recapture with the bishop. Can white play e five. No, because the rook is hanging. But you might say, but rugby one, and we're going to lose the B seven pawn. Well, don't panic. First of all, you can lose that pawn and still be up a piece and still be winning. So after night B two, bishop B two, rugby, uh, one, you can very well play bishop E five. And what we have done by taking on B two is created a past pawn on C four. And don't fall under the misconception that past pawns cannot be promoted in the middle game. They very well can be, and they will be. And I'm tempted to go for this line just to show you that. But the clinical approach, if you really want it to be greedy, is to drop the bishop back to D four. And after king H one, who can tell me a move that simultaneously defends the B seven pawn and prevents the move? E five. We're not going to do this. We are going to go bishop E five here because it's the simpler approach. Excellent. Dark tiger. Got it. Queen c seven. Guys, b six does not stop E five. Right? You only check one box. The move is queen C seven, right? It stops E five, and it defends B seven. But much simpler is just to say, I don't care about this pawn. I care about this pawn. So let's take what is white actually doing on B seven, right? This is an area of improvement for a lot of players where they look at a piece like the rook and they say, well, I need to get rid of the rook. Let's go. Bishop c eight. Let's go. Queen c eight. You don't need to do either of these things because the rook in and of itself is not actually exerting any serious pressure. We don't need to go rugby eight. We literally just want to push the pawn. Here we go c four. And then once we go c three, the pawn is forever anchored to the bishop. You should think of this as a checkpoint, right? It's like a checkpoint in a video game or a computer game where you hit a spot and basically you can die, but you'll go back to that spot. So the pawn on c three is permanently anchored by the bishop. Let's get it there, and then let's reassess the situation. The bishop is undefended. Yes. Okay. Queen h five. Big deal, right? Another one move threat that we don't need to fear at all. All we need to do here is secure the bishop, right? How do we secure the bishop? Well, we have a nice way to do it. The best way to defend a piece is with a pawn. So that should be your default rookie eight. Defends it with a piece, and it weakens the f seven. Pawn don't like it the f six. Now, you might look at this move and say, hey, but first of all, ben feingold. Second of all, are we not worried about weakening the 7th rank? Well, no, the simple answer, because white does not have the means, the firepower to do anything about it. Again, this bishop on d seven, it can't even be attacked a second time. If you look carefully, white can't put the second rook on the 7th ring. White can play the move bishop g two to h three. True. But then we just trade bishops, and we can play queen c eight in that resulting position to force the queen trade as well. Even if white manages to create a main threat, god forbid, if white gets rid of the bishop and then plays like queen g four, that's a one move threat. We can always put a rook up to f uh seven if we're really worried about the 7th rank. So I think what you should be focused on as we're converting this advantage is just the power of concrete thinking and the importance of not being reactive in chess and saying, oh, this is scary because of X-Y-Z. It's okay to think like that. You have to think like that. But you also have to look at the position very concretely and truly understand whether something is scary. So we take on h three, and now we identify the rook as an undefended piece. The queen is always a vulnerability. Combining those two together, we get the very classy move queen d eight to c eight, forcing the queen trade. And you might say, no, it doesn't force the queen trade because white is rook d seven, and our opponent might play this move rook d seven loses the game on the spot. And I'll let you guys think of the reason why, and perhaps we could say this move in the chat. Even if y doesn't play rook d seven, what do we do? Stress got it first. Rook f seven, but not rook d eight. Rook d eight is the most popular wrong answer. It's the right idea. But rook takes D eight is check. It doesn't work. Rook f seven avoids the check and wins the rook on d seven. Okay, so which rook do we take with it? Doesn't really matter, right? You can play rookfc eight. You can play rookie C eight. But if you want to be super classy and if you want to use tactics to your benefit, notice that we have the possibility of a check on D four and that can be used in the event that White takes a seven. So rook AC eight is the clinical move and it also sets a trap. Our opponent might mindlessly grab the pawn on a seven and allow bishop d four with a fork. The actual reason I'm taking with the A rook and I'm being super pedantic here deliberately, is because the other rook can be used. For what purpose? Well, it can be used for the purpose of smoking the white rook out of the 7th rank with rook f seven. And you might say but didn't you say the rook on b seven isn't scary? Well, the circumstances have changed. Right now our goal is to promote the seat bond. And the rook on b seven has just become a nuisance because the queens are off the board. So our sequence of events is to smoke the rook away from B seven and then just basically push the pawn supporting it if necessary with both of our rooks. And when the time is right, we're going to use our bishop to knock white's rook off of whatever blockading post it's going to occupy. So, rook c one has been played. We can start by pushing C three. We can actually do it in this order. Let's do it in this order. There is zero rush to playing rook f seven. White still cannot take on a seven and he just did. And that ends the game. Okay, bishop d four. And this is how you integrate traps into your play, right? You talk about tricky players. To be a tricky player, you don't need to constantly BS and sacrifice move quality. If you're experienced, you can seamlessly weave traps with the way that you normally play. Okay, what do we do now? Well, there's one more nuisance to eliminate. So rather than C two, I like the simple rook FD eight, pick up the pawn, then go C two and go rook d one and dislodge the rook from C one. Make White give it away for the pond and the rest will be easy. And, uh, you might be like, okay, all of these explanations in, like, the last two minutes might have been unnecessary. But my coaching philosophy and my philosophy of helping people improve is to emphasize that when you promote the right kinds of habits in totally winning positions, you should think of these positions as a training ground for building the right habits. Right. This is a low stakes situation because you know you're going to win the game basically, whatever you do. Although never underestimate people's power to, uh, mess things up. So it's like you still have to try to push yourself to be precise. And before you know it, um, you will start being precise in more complicated positions. I'll let you research the quote yourself and figure out who he was talking about. Okay. Rook takes c eight. And here comes Johnny. Rook c two and queen h five. And it's made no stalemate. Plenty of pawn moves. The game is over. I miss maiden two, apparently. Shame on me. Okay, now, the simplest is to drive the king back to G two, paving the way for a check on C two. So the retreating move, queen H five, check. Perhaps there is a faster mate. I don't care. I see a mate. We're going for a mate. And that a ladder made. Queen D one is coming to a theater near you. And that ends the game. And that was one of our longest games thus far, right? Around 40 moves, 39 moves. And it was a nice game. It was a rich positional game. And I have to give kudos to our opponent who played extremely well, really, uh, until the peace blunder and even induced, I think, a couple of inaccuracies. So let's delve into the analysis and this will be sort of a, uh, little opening overview on top of a game analysis. All right, let me pull up chess base. So c 45. So there's many schools of thought for how to face the English. And it really depends on which opening you play against E four, right? So the first step is to ask yourself what you play against D four. If you're a queen's gamma declined. Player C four is the least dangerous move against QGD players because you can basically just play E six. And white in many cases just ends up going D four and transposing. There are a couple of ways that white could keep a unique English flavor. So there is stuff you still need to learn. In particular, the most common is to play this ready, set up. With nine, F three and G three, white could play the move E four. But here, after D five, you transpose into a variation of the exchange French that you have to learn if you want to play this with black. But realistically, it's not dangerous. I think this is the best move. And black, uh, is doing completely fine. Now, things get a little bit more complicated if, for example, you are a let's say you're a groonfeld player, okay? And if you're a GRUNFELD player, just to show everybody what the GRUNFELD is, the GRUNFELD is when you play G six. Now, the King's Indian is Bishop G seven, allowing E four. And in the GRUNFELD, you strike with the immediate D five. I might say, well, the big problem let's just do that night F six, knight C. White is going to play D four. No, white's not going to play D Four. White's going to play E four. And GRUNFELD players often get move ordered like this, and you've got move ordered into a King's Indian, right? You basically have to go D six. And after D four, you have a King's Indian, which by extension, if you're a King's Indian player, the English is also not a big problem for you because you can just go G six or you can go night F six and G six, and we're basically happy. Now, white can keep the English flavor against the King's Indian. And it's actually quite an annoying opening that's where white does not advance the pawn to D four, white keeps the pawn on D three. And that's partially why I like to play E five against C four, even though I'm a lifelong Kings Indian player. So I, uh, have played the King's Indian set up against the English. But I really feel that E five is the principled line. Um, if you're a Slav player, you're also experiencing some problems against C four. The slav is D five, C four and C six. Does anybody know why the move C six here? Like, what is the annoying line that Slav players have to learn? On top of, of course, regular Slav stuff. And we're getting a little technical here, but nonetheless, what does white do here to try to move order black into a line they don't know? Yeah, E four. And after E, it transposes after D four into a panov caro khan. Into a Panov caro khan, it reaches the same exact move order as after Ce four. C 64, d five takes takes. In C four, you get the same exact position. So if you're a Slough player and you want to play C six, you also have to learn the pan off, which is not a big problem to learn. And black is doing totally fine. But you just have to keep these things in mind. And I think the easiest way to avoid all of that is just to learn E five, to invest some time and learn this move, and it exposes you to a whole set of positions. Okay? Panov is not a problem. Black is equal in the pano. But you have to know theory. It can be very dangerous if you don't know theory. So what we're not going to do is delve deeply into all of white's English setups. I'm just going to introduce them to you. Apart from G three, which our opponent played, there is the Four Nights English knight F three. And here, if we face this, we're going to play a super cool line that I'm going to introduce to you that starts with E four. This is a very modern line. It's, uh, a pawn sacrifice and it's really only recently arrived on the scene. But traditionally, Black plays Knights e six. And here the classical four nights. English is e three. You might have seen me with White play E four a lot. This is a recent move that's really arrived on the scene. And the idea, as I talked about in the previous stream actually is bishop Z five, the center fork trick 95, 95, and D four. And let's see who paid attention in the previous speedrun. If Black plays bishop D six, he's already losing. Why is Black already losing here? Because of the move C four. C five, and Black's minor pieces just collapse, just cave in. So there's all this stuff, but G three is still considered the most popular. And we play D five reaching essentially a reverse Sicilian. This is an incredibly well studied opening. There is a lot of theory here, but it's quite easy to understand the main setup for Black, which is why I'm choosing this is my official recommendation. So after bishop B seven, I'm going to plug this into chess base, uh, so that I don't give you any inaccurate information. But, uh, to my knowledge, the move E three here is not particularly effective. Let me check how many times it's been played. It's been played a handful of times and even by some strong players. But it's not dangerous. It's not a topical line. The main line continues D three, black, of course, castles, kingside. And here already there is a bit of a fork in the road. There's a three preparing b four. And there's bishop C one to E three. This is the typical square for White's dark squared bishop just by process of elimination. Now by popularity. The main line is A three. And here I'm just going to introduce this line by showing you the next couple moves. You play bishop e six. So you actually don't play A five. You allow white to play? B four. And here you carry out a very cool trick. We play the move A five. Now, what the heck is Black doing? Black's just blundering a pond. B five, N four and 965. Looks like we've just blundered away a central pond. What's funny is that David Howell, the grandmaster, he played this against me and he beat me with with White in this line. But this is an exchange sacrifice that most people will stumble into unwittingly black's move here is Bishop to F six and suddenly White experiences major problems with, uh, his Knights. Because if knight F three, then you take and you take on C three and you win a piece. The knight is nowhere else to go. Um, so White has to support it with F four. If White plays bishop F four, black is a very pretty move and a very important idea to know anytime you have this construction, especially if there's a pawn on G three, what move do you have to remember black to play and win? If you're watching on YouTube, pause and figure this out. It's worth your while. G five chases the bishop away and wins a piece. Very good. So white has to play them of F four. Now, black, uh, plays bishop E five, Fe five, and knight to B three. This is the crux of Black's idea because if the rook moves, then, uh, you have queen to D four. Check forking the knight and the king. So actually, what black has to do, what David Howell, uh, did, is just bishop C one to E three. You have to COVID the D four square and sack the exchange. But according to modern engines, and I analyzed this, black has to move nine, P 60, D five. You're trying to force trades because you're up in exchange, and only black can be better here. There are some correspondence games here. Um, there are some OTB games. One of them continued bishop Ah, C five, rookie eight, and a guy named Jensen, 24 70. Im m played 94. But it turns out after a simple move like queen d seven, black is incredibly solid in the center. Um, another OTB game continued a four, and now very strong, would have been just to solidify your queen sight structure with B six, bishop D four. And now to throw in another prophylactic, H six to prevent the knight from jumping into D five. And then you go rook D eight. Or you can go rook AC eight. And eventually Bishop H three. Black, essentially, is the only side having fun here. So we went quite deep. But it's important to know this line, because if White doesn't know what to do after night D four, he's very likely to take on E five. Now, instead, in this position, the main line is knight back to D two, covering the B three score. White can also play rugby one. This is second in popularity, and this leads to some very interesting positions. So, for example, after 92, uh, black kind of eats into White's structure with C six. This is the theoretical move BC knight C six. And already I would argue that you can play this move OTB with Black. Like, you can know only this and you're already going to be fine. The main line continues rook B one. And now black cements the weakness on a three by pushing the pawn up to a four. Another very typical move in such structures. And then you go rook C eight. And quickly you can reposition your knife back to d four and even make your way to B three. It's an easy position to play. And I really think that unless White is super familiar with typical plans and structures, it's easy for White to fall into passive mode and get a worse position. The engine just gives basically zeros everywhere here. Last thing I'll say in this position is that if White plays rook B one, then you actually need to defend the E five fund. Now, it is a threat that you can do so by pushing F six. Remember that if you have a bishop on this diagonal, f six is not nearly as weakening as it would otherwise be. And now again, the main move is knight D two, played by Carlson and others. If White plays knight to 64, then of course, you recapture with upon to clamp down on white's queenside. Knight to A four, bishop to D five, trading off the fianceto bishop. And black is doing totally fine. So this is a very short elevator pitch. Kind of overview of the main lines here. There are sidelines. White can play the immediate A three. B three is quite popular as well. But, uh, for the time being, let's switch back to what our opponent played, e three. Okay? Any questions about that? Let's see what people are saying. I'm reading the chat. Jeffrey says there's a super GM subtlety. After you through, you'll have to explain. So we castle, we allow the move D four, and we take it and we reach this position. Now, of course, as I pointed out during the game, um, there is the possibility of playing night 64. And by the way, I hate to jump around too much, but I did promise that I'll show you why the English can be dangerous if black plays kind of nonchalant developing move. So let's rewind a little bit and talk about that for a second. This is important. So let's say the black plays let's knight C six and then bishop E seven already. Black is worse. And the way to understand this position is to understand that black no longer is able to push D five. And if you're not able to push D five, that basically means you have to position your pawn on D six. And it's just passive. It's passive. White can play this common setup with E three and 92. This was introduced to me as the Botanic setup. Uh, we played this with Black in the Sicilian just a couple of games ago. And Black has no obvious plan. Cramped, passive. White has this typical plan of pushing the beep on forward and orchestrating some queenside pressure. And yeah, you can play this bishop E six castles. You can even try to push through D five. But if you play it down a bunch of tempeh, you're not going to enjoy yourself. And White can even counterstrike with D four. And this gets super, super nasty because you can't take on C four. Uh, so, okay, you can play queen D seven here, but, uh, after something like knight to D five, it's it's unpleasant. It's unpleasant. Um, and and you should remember that, right? That's why you need a concrete set up against the English. There are setups where you actually put your bishop on C five. Um, and Jeffrey, I'll get to your point in a second. There are setups where you play bishop C five, but again, after A three, you're just biting on granite. And in some lines, black tucks the bishop away on a seven for like, a rainy day. I looked at these setups. I think black is worse here, uh, partially because you're actually allowing the pond to get to d four in one fell swoop. So these are interesting setups, but I don't particularly like them. I don't think they're very sound. And and I think the way you should play is D five. I'm pretty insistent on that. So we will, I'm sure, face this again and we will talk more about theory. And Jeffrey is making a very interesting point. So, after T four, e D four, apparently the move knight takes D four was very strong. Very interesting point. Why is the move night D four so strong? Well, let's figure it out. Well, my plan was to play night takes D four. I suppose white plays E takes D four. And the crux of the matter is that after we play C six to halt the progress of the deep on, can anybody tell me what very scary move white now has at his disposal? And this is the entire reason that you move the knight, uh, from F three in the first place. And this should be obvious, right? Because at this point, you should have a pretty good grasp of what each side wants. Yeah, phenomenamaster has it right. Black white plays D five. They might say, well, why is D five so dangerous? Well, first of all, white is eradicating his weakness, the IQP. But what often happens is that once the IQP is eliminated, the dam breaks and the side of the more active pieces is going to benefit. Now, which side is the more active pieces? Well, it's clearly white, and it's because of the placement of this lightscored bishop. Black's lightscored bishop is still on its developing square. So if you forecast a bunch of trades here after knight takes D five, I actually think I can even take back with the queen. Um, maybe I can take with the bishop. But that endgame is quite unpleasant for black. The engine does give equality here with, ah, precise play, black needs to quickly put the other bishop on F six to to do the same thing to white that white is doing to black. But nonetheless, you can see that it's a little bit it's a little bit iffy. And maybe maybe white should play bishop takes D five. Maybe this is the way to fight for an advantage. And after bishop f six, maybe the queen can come out to F three, the rook to D one. And white is a bit of an initiative that should sort of make sense to intuitively. So D. Five is actually unstoppable here. And you can't bring your bishop out because you drop B seven. Right? So these subtleties are important to appreciate. And that is why, according to Jeffrey, bishop E six here was actually more precise than castling, because now, if White plays D four, who can explain to me what the difference is in this position? And now you should have the AHA moment. Everything should kind of click. What does black do here? Not 95. 95 is premature. You don't need to occupy the square. You don't need to occupy the square to control it. Controlling it is more important. C six. Exactly. You play C six now, and D five is no longer possible because the bishop is an added defender of that square. Not queen c eight. Guys. Queen C eight allows exactly what white wants. It allows the pond to move forward. You need to control that square. Now, why is 95 bad here? Well, 95 is bad because you're biting off more than you can chew. And you can basically get Stein and Bart eleven after takes in rookie one. I'm referencing a famous game where black encountered similar problems on the E file and was never able to castle. And, um, thank you, Jeffrey, for this point. This was a very instructive point, and you're getting introduced right now to basically GM level opening theory and, like, how things work. But what you should take away from this is that everything can be understood, right? It's not like, oh, bishop E six is better because it is. It's better for a specific reason that you can carve out with enough analysis and persistence. So, in any case, we're getting deep here. Let's get into the middle game. We play bishop E six, white doesn't play. Knight takes D four, and we breathe a sigh of relief. Okay, so bishop F six, I think, is a, uh, reasonable move to attack D four. There were other ways we could play. We could put the night on D five. We could play the immediate night before and night before to D five. I'm sure if you look with an engine, bishop F six probably not the best move to echo the line I was talking about, 94 is what I was really worried about. What's up, chest kid? 94 is what I was worried about. And here we were calculating bishop D 494, and we concluded that 94 is very imprecise on account of this nasty little move. Knight to C five, attacking B seven and B six, and everything is kind of hanging in the air. But queen D four breathes new life into this line, um, because if white takes and plays 95 now, there's this fork. This is the line I was referencing during the game. Now, you should see it, but in this position, it's really not the end of the story. And White can play a move like queen no, not queen G four, but queen h five. And I believe that white has a very powerful initiative in response in exchange for the pond. I mean, there's niq five ideas. According to the engine, black is totally fine after the crazy F six to stop niq five, but this is scary. I mean, the queen is vulnerable. White's pieces look very active. It leads to complications. It leads to a super complicated game. If you're interested, you can surf around with an engine. But I don't want to get too bogged down in the complications, because bishop e three is what really anybody under 2200 would play automatically and knight to B four, preparing to increase our control over D five, a three by our opponent, which I think is inaccurate because it sends the night where it wants to go anyway. I think the correct move would have indeed been to play 94. Once again, we would have dropped our bishop back to E seven, and perhaps white can play 95. We go. Bishop d five. Maybe now it's time to chase the night out of B four. Since it can't get to D five, we would have dropped back I 96 wonders the pond. Uh huh. So this would have been a nasty little way to play, would have forced us to play night A six. And of course, now we have been forced to ruin our queen side pod structures at the end of the world no. Because we still have this big blockading piece on D five, but white can play 95 and keep piling it on. And despite the fact that white's trades is fianceto bishop, with the queen coming to f uh, three and the knight to C six, you can sense that white's pieces are a lot more active here. So these types of positions you want to try to avoid. I think after 94, white maintains a small advantage. Okay. But that's very, very deep stuff. And a three is intuitive. White plays it now, but now, after night C five, this has lost a lot of its effectiveness because we can take on a three, and then we can take on C five. And this is what I was discussing during the game. After night C four, with or without queen takes D one. I think black is doing fine. White's pawns are quite damaged, and it's not so easy to keep everything under wraps here if you're white. Um, so in any case, I think things really started going well. Things went wrong in the span of just a single move. I still think here that if white plays the careful bishop C one, white is not worse and the engine gives zeros, which I think is pretty reasonable. I mean, black has we've gained a bunch of tempi right, with white deliing around on the kingside. But even if white just says sorry, as my old coach would say, just, I'm going to go back. Sorry. White is still very solid, right? White is still fundamentally sound here, as is Black. And the game takes on a very positional character. Here, the engine recommends a simple look to move like H Six, even 95 back to F Six is interesting to make space for the other night and try to trade off some pieces. When you're playing against an IQP, you'd normally want to trade minor pieces because the fewer pieces are left, the harder it is to, ah, apportion resources because something has to defend the IQP. So if you don't have a lot of pieces left, you might end up just forcing all of your remaining pieces to defend the isolated queen pond. There's a great car puff corchnoy game on this topic that I've shown before on stream won't do it. Now, Knight C Five is the engine line, and there is a train on C five. The structure changes and you get a very unclear endgame with both sides kind of having their share of activity. And Jeffrey makes an important point, which is that it is psychologically very difficult for really, any player, but especially newer players, to play these types of retreating moves and admit that you messed up. And this is a big takeaway from this game if you're, uh, considering learning from White's perspective. It's like when you have sense that you just messed up, right? Let's say you fell into a one move. Itis kind of trap. You made a move that you thought was cool, and then you immediately realized that you've just twisted yourself into a knot. Your first instinct should be to it should be self preservation. You should make sure to identify the threats and then just make sure you're not losing any pieces and do whatever it takes. Right. Because I think White's problem is that he just sort of panicked. He's like, oh, this didn't work out the way I wanted it to. And then you short circuit. But rather than short circuit and you say, well, what specifically is Black's threat? Well, if you ask yourself that question, you should notice that it's night E Three and Bishop G Five. Well, how do we prevent it? Well, you can do it from two different ends. You can move the night away. You can move the Bishop way. The night is no good squares because night F Three just happens to blunder the night. I suppose night H Three is the way to to defend your minor pieces. But it goes without saying that this is ridiculously awkward, and Black is better. And so that really only leaves the option of moving the Bishop away. Why not? Bishop D two. Because it cuts contact between, uh, the queen and the pawn. But it's also possible and it invites a move like Night C Four and Bishop C One is the best move, both according to the engine and according to what we discussed. Um, apparently, according to Leila, bishop D Two is good, and even the move Queen to f Three is not so bad. Attacking the Bishop. And the idea is to meet Knight takes C three with oh, actually, F takes C three. Uh huh. And you're counterattacking the Bishop on F five. This may seem to win a piece, but remember, the very night that's being attacked can also do the capturing, not to be forgotten about. And it's a complicated position. So, in this game analysis, we're doing kind of a lot of open ended analysis and digging around. And this might strike you as boring and aimless, but hopefully this is helping you formulate a better understanding of these complex positions. You never know when these ideas can come in handy. So, this was an open ended game. It's hard to make any hard and fast conclusions, but I still think just analyzing deeply like this, it helps you acquire ideas and achieve fluency in complicated situations. Now, once the piece was blundered, I'm not going to talk too much about the rest of the game. I'm just going to make a couple of clarifications. Bishop g six here allows h four. And funnily enough, after Bishop F Six, black is actually getting away with it. Black is getting away with it because after H five, we can play Queen Takes D Four. And once the Queen is knocked out, the Bishop can then capture H five. But that's luck. And after E Five, Bishop E seven, the Bishop now has a retreat, uh, not a retreating score, but an escape square on F five. All right. And so Bishop G Six did work, but we played a more conservative move, a safer move. And I also think the top move, and yeah, uh, 92 is kind of giving the game a whale. The game has already been given away. If I was playing White, I would have probably tried to muddy the waters. But this is still completely lost. I mean, this is just a free piece. Actually, Bishop C Six might be inaccurate due to D Five, which I missed. So perhaps here we should instead play pawn to C Six and really establish our control over this light square, and then bring the Bishop back to E six and the night to D five. Yeah. My apologies, Bishop. Um, C six was indeed imprecise. 92. We found this nice tactical move, C Five, carving out the weak, dark square. And this is just a sort of stock idea that you should be aware of on a very conceptual level. It occurs very commonly in, uh, every opening. It's a universal idea. But if I had to give you a simple example of an opening where an idea like this occurs super frequently, it is the Karo Khan. So take a look at a very simple illustration of this concept by none other than Alipon himself. And here you will see why players in the 18 hundreds often struggled, um, because they were often unfamiliar with sort of basic positional concepts, stuff that we now kind of take for granted. So take a quick gander at this game. This is a simple illustration of this concept in wearing different clothes. Essentially, Marco against Alappen, two leading players of the 18 hundreds. Um, so in this position, it's an isolated sorry, it's an obstacle of bishop endgame. And white plays the move. C three. C four. How do you think Alipon responds? Let's see who's paying attention to the general concept. Now. Uh, you identify the square you want to carve out. Very good. B six. B five. Excellent. And Marco goes right into Black Sands. He plays C five, and he yields this incredible square on D five. Right? This is just, um now, White is an equivalent square on D six. But the thing is, white put the knight there the night on D six. It just looks good. It doesn't actually do anything. The lords over the entire position, and Black ends up winning the game by using the knight directly to break through on the queenside to create a passed pawn. And then he accumulates his pieces there, and he ends up winning the game. And eventually, the knight is replaced by a bishop. So the D five square is an integral part of the way in which Alipin wins this game. Nowadays, people would kind of automatically, if we rewind, lean, uh, toward B three and not yield the square. Now, Black and take and go B five with the other pawn. And here I would go, rookie C one. And if you think about it, in this case, the effect of the D five square is still intense, but it's diminished because Black has to reckon with the weakness of the C six pawn. And it's diluted, essentially. Uh, but I can show you a zillion examples of this. I call this carving out. You're carving out a square. And we did something very similar here with the move C five, just wearing different clothes. Once again, um, if D five, which happened in the game, we get this monster E five square. If DC, then we come around, we pick up the pawn, and with the open D file, we're going to move our bishop away and why it's going to collapse very quickly. So, D five, knight C four, bishop back to F six, controlling E five, winning the pawn on B two, and dropping the bishop back to E five. Keeping our eyes on the prize, not fearing Ruth. B seven, pushing the pawn. Now, the plan is very simple. You're going to push it all the way. Queen h five. Uh, f six. A simple defensive move protecting the bishop with a pawn. And now a little operation to force the queen trade. Bishop H three and Queen C eight. And again, if rook D seven here trying to intercept it. Rook to F seven ends the game because the queen is undefended. There's no check on D eight. There's no queen E six because it's just queen takes d seven, and this loses the queen. And so White loses the game takes takes c three. And of course, White hastens defeat. But if White had gone rook c two, we would have followed through with our plan rook f seven. And then there's a million ways to win, but I like the move even rook to c four. Just go after the e four pawn win both of White's pawns, and the bishop is more than capable of defending c three all by its lonesome. It's also protecting the b eight square. So White doesn't even have this check. And the moment White moves the rook away, you push the pawn. Classic kind of concept. Okay, so this ends the game, and the rest is clear without commentary. That was a rich game. That was a good game. I hope you enjoyed the analysis. A lot to take away from this. There's a lot of takeaways in the opening and a lot of takeaways positionally, which I won't reiterate because there were a lot of specific things. But, uh, I hope you've come away with the feeling that you're more comfortable with these types of positions, especially IQP structures. Thanks, Jeffrey, for all the insight. This was super fun. And, uh, thanks again to the people watching on YouTube for supporting the channel and making this possible with your subscriptions. Thank you all.