So how many of y'all know a little bit Oh, good, this is very good. That's probably why It's a silly question. So as most of y'all, I guess, do for the videos. And we're going to and this is a super But we're also doing a lot more, But so we're all I'll show you a little montage Up the volume. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] -And the notation usually -All of these through the gravity almost you could call -So the right slot is i plus 1. -This animal's in this area of South America, -They create the Committee of like a very nice committee. -Notice this is an aldehyde, -It's some type of an -Exactly. -So the key is, when you you have to look at --[INAUDIBLE] there 30 million, the American manufacturer. -If this does not blow your [END PLAYBACK] [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] And y'all are the first audience why that should blow your mind. So it's exciting that we So that is where we are now, We've had over 90 We've had over 100 It's actually about And that's growing So we have about 3 and 1/2 a month. And that's growing at kind And in the internet so used to like million here, in Facebook. You lose sight of it. And that's why i did a calculation. The number of unique is more than six times that Harvard has just a little estimation But that's where we are now. And I think we do have and we can talk a lot And I think a lot of how this kind of And it's all been a and lucky circumstances and at the right time. But as a lot of y'all I was an analyst actually at 9 Newbury Street. And I had just gotten was visiting me from is where I grew up. And my one cousin in particular, and I remember she I hadn't seen her for When you talked to her, you to someone your own age. It was actually 4th and we were waiting for the River. And we kind of had had a couple hours to wait And so as I think as many of I started giving my [LAUGHING] And I think, like experience with most of your Sal, stop, we don't This is a vacation. But Nadia said, no, no, no, I want to solve it. And I literally remember, are the type of things you might see in a But she was working and I was really impressed. She didn't shut her brain off. She wanted to She was logical. She was analytical about it. And I told her, and I said, And when I said that, of give her dad, my uncle, I didn't know what that meant. And so the next morning, her thank you so much for being to Nadia and her brothers, and And we love that you But I actually want that Nadia is actually having right now. And I said, oh, no, I mean, the girl who was that she was tackling, I've can't do problems like that. And she was tackling them, and And on top of that, we share [LAUGHTER] So and when Nadia I said, what's going on, Nadia? I have trouble believing And Nadia said that she's kilograms to decigrams, And I just told was like, I how that can be confusing. I mean, even now, sometimes But, I told her, what is 10 times deeper. And the conversations that or philosophy or whatever conversion. And she was kind of a didn't believe. Is this like a pep So I told her, I was like, look, how about we do a We'll get on a phone. We'll figure out some way to or whatever else. And she agreed. I think more than liked the fact that someone was So we started. And frankly, the first month Her confidence was Her brain was shut off. It was a completely when you asked her a Kilo means 1,000. Kilometer is how many meters? Long, awkward pause-- 1,000? Are you sure? And it was like, this was doing these just because she was But eventually, we finally And after too much, and she got it kind of all She was, I can't believe that I was tracking class, that simple idea. So after that, I was like, OK, This worked. And the whole time I could kind of hear her to be part of the scene. So I started tutoring them. And then the way our were going, I would kind and if they knew If they didn't know I'd give them a hint or a step. And we'd work the next one. And so I said, write some simple software. I was here working and I hadn't been of my brain for a little while. So I was like, oh, this And so I started writing to generate these these little random numbers. And if they didn't it would give the And I started and Nadia, do these problems, the next day. And the next day, I'd say, Oh, I did 14. I did 15. How many did you get right? I think I got them all right. And so I didn't believe them. So I put a database behind it. [LAUGHTER] But it was just that that I was doing giving me all this information. Wow, they didn't know how Boy, I've been really in the completely wrong way. Or now they need the practice bone up on that concept. Or why is Ali, who doing that problem at Which was actually that I discovered when I on their little problem logs. [LAUGHTER] And so that was getting more and more and I was tutoring And by November of 2006, I was actually another MIT alum. It was [INAUDIBLE]. He did his PhD here. And I was showing off the my cousins are using it, and I and all the rest. But my only complaint was I and it was getting That connection that the one-on-one you start having two, it started to become difficult. I tried to do conference And he's the guy that told me. He's like, well, I don't but why don't you make some on YouTube, and maybe you of the way for your tutorials. And I said, no, no, no, no, no. YouTube is for [LAUGHTER] It is not for And so then I went and I kind of thought And I got over the idea [LAUGHTER] And decided to give it a shot. And I put a couple of those And I remember do you want to make And actually, I was tempted-- What if these aren't And I said, well, maybe if But YouTube didn't have any So I guess I'll make it public. But what are the is going to see this stuff? So I put it out pointing my cousins to it. I was like, hey, why don't you take This might be good review. Or here's some at if you forgot the over this idea or that idea. And I joke a lot about this, After a couple weeks, I had And they were very And you could actually sort And you can see those original And I asked my cousins, What do you think of them? And they told me that they than in person. [LAUGHTER] And I haven't clarified whether or is this is broader thing and it's completely unintuitive. It goes against We always assume can give you productivity. Technology can give But technology is something approach the resource But here, my cousins that they preferred to their cousin. And so it goes against sense of technology but it made complete sense in their shoes. Now Nadia didn't have when she forgot how to do math. She didn't have to feel if she wanted to She didn't have to when she wasn't ready to I mean, there were days where but I had a tough day at work. I'd go home, I'd say, I guess I better do this. So my energy level wasn't there. And I'm sure there were days asked some other and so she wasn't But now she could get it when she had the so she could pause and repeat. And so I got kind of just thinking that, at minimum, I didn't have kids at the time. I do now. I said, well, maybe this could I could be a little family that I could share with-- use this content. And I read a lot of so it's kind of in But there's no If Newton or Leibniz had we wouldn't have to. [LAUGHTER] There's reason to believe He wasn't mainstream like me. [LAUGHTER] So it might not have worked. So I just kept going. The other unintuitive go to dinner parties, the little videos and I had my friends from And they're, how are you going [LAUGHTER] I was like, oh, no, I'm just doing this for and I'm enjoying it. And I would get like, what part of capitalism [LAUGHTER] But then by this time to Silicon Valley. And so this will never You should make a platform content onto your platform. You should crowd source it. And I said, no, I I have an MBA as well. [LAUGHTER] I understand the principle to do your work for you. But I'm enjoying this. And then I said, but Would you like to do And they would walk away. [LAUGHTER] But once again, it was And I just kept doing it. And then comments started And some of those comments And I don't know if y'all but it's not all [LAUGHTER] Not all G-rated comments. And actually, I was kind of of some of the video producers. Once we expose there will be-- there are People can say mean [LAUGHTER] But for the most part-- and and actually, this is important Academy, because thrives off of positive with criticism. First people said thank And it was random people. It wasn't my cousins. It was people all And then the comments This is the reason why This is the reason why I'm This is the reason why, I haven't seen math in 15 This is the bridge that I got letters from a mother She said, this is the only I got letters, multiple letters, that they're praying for me. And I was working [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] I'm sure some of my but for different reasons. So I mean, it was just So I kept going. And the site traffic And you fast forward it to 2009. And actually, there were some 2008, during the financial In our fund, we parked And frankly, all of the starting reading the Federal and over again. And then I would go would ask, hey, about this financial crisis? I'd go, oh, this is the and insolvency, and this swaps are called financial And people were like, oh, uh-- not making videos about So I started doing that. And it's funny. I got a call from two saying that they were using on the financial crisis. [LAUGHTER] Actually, I got I got one email will not name the wrote a very short email, I now [LAUGHTER] And it's heartwarming, better I'm sure he was getting which is a little strange. So that happened. And actually that was first I was on the Rick about how we should start Poor guy-- things have But in 2009, I had I was an analyst But I had trouble There's this site. People were writing me letters. The traffic was picking up. And were many other times, you and you say you want And you go to your wife, and you look at your and you look at I'll stay a little bit longer. [LAUGHTER] But by fall of 2009, frankly, It would actually have for me to continue managing And frankly at got a little And I got this really powerful We actually have The student, no used Khan Academy for summer, and got a perfect exam, which had never happened So that all happened So I sat with my wife. We looked at the finances. She was pregnant. We actually had our And so it wasn't but we said, look, we have take a year off and do it. And so I did. And like all things like this-- It was growing exponentially. But the funding-- we set Someone should realize that these videos don't just They can teach millions billions of kids maybe one day. But they just weren't And like I was telling I would go to parties what you do for a living. And so, I make [LAUGHTER] And I literally heard were, well, it's good [LAUGHTER] The meanness isn't But these things take longer. And I had a little Paypal And we were getting And that was powerful, that a give $20 just out of goodwill. But then all of a sudden all of a sudden a So I look at it. It was someone named Ann Doerr. And I emailed her. I said, this is the largest If we were a would now have a [LAUGHTER] Which I think is I don't know what the going but it's well in But she actually She was local. She was in Palo Alto. And she said, well, have And so I met her for lunch. And she's like, where do I said, well, a world-class in the world for free. And I showed her why. We can make exercises. That primitive stuff I we could hire a competent team And we could eventually I'd keep making videos, And she nodded. I think it was And then she was, well, if how are you supporting yourself? And in kind of a proud way [LAUGHTER] And so she kind of nodded. And I went home. And when I was in the driveway, And she's like, well, you I've just wired you $100,000. And so that's was a good day. [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] And actually Ann's to become this like bearer Then things started to get And even to this point, it's ride since that point. A few weeks later, some say there are two major Google and the Khan Academy. [LAUGHTER] I don't get as many [LAUGHTER] Some folks brought It was a big room. And they were very They're like, oh, know that a lot of our It's really helping them. And it was very flattering. These are some of the best and their kids are students and all the rest. And they just point blank, about what I was up what would you do And I said, is this [LAUGHTER] And they clarified it [LAUGHTER] I've got needs, you know. [LAUGHTER] But so I told them the We would build out We would hire We would make this thing where And they kind of nodded. And by this point, been through this cycle And there wasn't a lot-- but they're like, well, why And you kind of need and I didn't have it. Although Ann donating-- famous venture capitalist. And so that was actually a very But actually, I don't knew about it at that point. But then it got even wackier. And then the Google part but it got even wackier. Early July 2010, I was Because I was just curious. I do a lot of this virtually. It's fun for me to work and see what you can do if with each other. And so I had this were playing a game of Risk. And then the other 20 based on the outcome [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] It's a good game. Frankly the summer that I wanted to play until that point that I never But now people were me to let me do it And so while it was literally a students, I got another And she said, I'm at the And I'm in a room of And Bill Gates is And for the past 10 minutes, [LAUGHTER] And it's like one of And I was like, is this a joke? Maybe Ann sen it to the that Bill Gates so maybe it was a mistake. Who knows? I didn't know. And then I looked I said, some people This is happening someplace. This is in my And so I went home. And it was the most Because like this thing what do I do now? Do I call him? [LAUGHTER] And so I don't know what they were doing to me, this strange-- I was still just doing and there was this Bill Gates is-- what? And then I got a call is Bill Gates' chief of staff. He said, well, you must He would like to meet [LAUGHTER] And I was looking at my and it was completely blank. [LAUGHTER] And I didn't want-- so I I can just fly in, fly out. We can work it out. And so we met. I guess I can call him Bill now. And he said, how And it was as weird. His chief of staff said that and he says one of the like all the time. And I immediately said, I need Like this is not a But Bill said, how And I kind of said I told Ann, same And he kind of nodded. And when he nodded, in the back of the room got that right there? And so October of 2010, over a year ago, funding actually hit at Google decided to fund for 10 projects that have the And so we were off and running. We were able to I was able to hire another MIT who was my freshman roommate. He joined. And we started to ramp up. And this is what we And some of y'all are probably This is a more of really what I And the idea here is the top one is basic addition. And I'll show you what But it will generate as you need to master And once you've move on to the next concept. And it's kind of the way you would you would teach anything. It's the way video games work. It's the way you would a musical instrument. But the one thing later, especially when we at a few summer camps and it's the complete that we've all been In the system that we've what you have is you have to learn a concept. And then the variable is So some of us get an A, some of And it's used not as It's used as an assessment to You're smart. You're not so smart. You're hard working. You're not so hard working. And the real insanity of we were supposed to And we take an exam. And half the class get Ds, 20% deficiencies, Even the A students We all then move somehow expecting magically that didn't know 20% to now all of a sudden the inverse function, to But that's exactly And the analogy is And the foundation, You get the The inspector goes and says, Well, that's passing. Let's build a first floor. [LAUGHING] And then you build a and then it collapses. And you're like, whoa, We have to do something. But that's what we're So what we're the way you learn naturally, being the amount of time and the variable how let's make the fixed thing Let's make it and then the variable and how long you actually And so this is what some This is actually contributed by a volunteer. And I showed it earlier And this is an open source So any of y'all who are and actually, John Resig's here, built the framework for It's mostly JavaScript library. I mean, he should be But if any of y'all are we would love it. The module you're contributed by a guy in DC. And it's one of And so what the give you an infinite And if you need help, there's And the idea is you keep doing And what's really like about this is you're able to do do with a traditional do with a traditional lecture. You change the slope of the and by doing so, tracing out the derivative And not all of them is what we want all the And eventually we multi-player modules, different things. We're experimenting with Now this is another module. And this a more basic one. This is kind of what they looked for my cousins. This one we're still using. But basic idea, you keep doing show some level of proficiency. And it's an interesting do you measure proficiency, and But if you don't you get the steps I think that smiley the only part of my original So when we started, it [INAUDIBLE] had joined. We got a call from the Is a district adjacent And they said, oh, we heard We'd like to meet you. And so we met them. And the school board you do if you could do anything class. And we said, well, we'd at their own pace, mastering We think that would other interesting build things, build robots, whatever it might be. And the role of from instead of being the of problem sets, turn into someone who gets a performing, see where all do focus interventions on and mentor them on they might want to do. And so they nodded. They were very sympathetic. They're like, yes, this is This is the gold standard. But it's very radical. And so when [INAUDIBLE] and we're like, they're no way they're going But once again, this I don't know, fated They emailed us in can we start after Thanksgiving? And they wanted to start with seventh grade classes. And so this right over here of those fifth grade classes. And so the teacher They would have this And I'll show you a few of them. But each row here is I've blocked them off. Each column there is one of map you saw. And the model is if a student the student is doing fine. They already mastered proficiency in that concept. If it's blue, they're but there's no need to worry. But if it says red and we're always it looks like the They've done a lot of problems, they've looked at hints, but not getting it. And so the model is, well, go sit down next to that focused, one-on-one tutorial? Or even better, why not get have already mastered that the first line of attack? And when you do that, and the students were starting And actually one of the started to have a cadre of the teacher spent a large that the teacher could scale. And then some of those TAs were know, fifth graders, people. [LAUGHTER] And we realized something There's that one idea before you move just kind of correcting some that we were indoctrinated into. But the other thing that we is in the ed reform debate, big deal. And obviously, at a the lower, the better, But we realized what was student-to-teacher ratio is the teacher ratio or And here in a traditional spends 90% of their time That's maybe 5% of their sitting next to forming bonds with them. I mean, I sat in class having a real of my teachers in grade school. At MIT it wasn't the case. I had very deep-- [LAUGHS] [LAUGHING] There are several people-- Oh, really? [LAUGHTER] But all of a sudden, if instead of doing able to sit down next to and guide them and form you're actually in the classroom, the by an order of magnitude. So once again, a You're using technology, is a very cold thing-- it's but it's not human-- but to actually make the making it more human, making than a traditional classroom. And we wanted to with as much data as possible. And I want to make it clear. A lot of the specs for these came from the They're like, well, it but I want to see what to for the last whatever days. This says the light blue is and there's a lot There's these game mechanics. You can see the achievements This says what a student in any given time period. And the students get And it's funny. Because in some of these, standards, and they must understand pie charts. In seventh grade, multi-layer, or whatever it is, right? And in a traditional you have these very unnatural But what we found is when it's amazing how fast any age is not a trivial diagram. But they're able And so the inner circle is the Outer circle is If you click on any you get a problem-by-problem This is one of the Height is how much time Blue is right. Red is wrong. That little video icon Question mark means If you click on can see the problem that the We've recently added a feature the narrative of the problem. Eventually we would like to as they did it on the problem. We don't have that yet. So it's really and it's not just a It's actually then This right here is that gives a teacher a going on the class. But pretty much every is starting to tell a The horizontal axis on the site for the class. Vertical is just a raw And each of those lines is one And what we're and over again-- right like you'd expect in any probably a lot of when we were in fifth grade, They're really confident They race ahead, and in those are the gifted kids. Those are the advanced kids. Then there's a group that They're doing fine. Those are the average kids. And there's a group, They're working on some stuff. Those are the kids still at those bottom Oh, those kids are If we start separating say advanced kids, medium But what we're seeing is if you let all the students if you let them fill in all all those little 5%, 10% numbers, multiplying decimals, and you allow them as they need to really this is an important thing. We've learned to believe that which is kind of crazy. Because maybe the slower person something. Maybe they really want to They don't want to and get to the next concept. But that's what we've But now all of a sudden, if to internalize the information, again that a student that was remedial or a the second-best or the best student And we're seeing it over that you really have of the leadership of And you stop even making And to some degree, we of the old system, where and we just happen to be at the snapshot. And it really does how many people might have Now the-- [APPLAUSE] Everyone's like Everyone's like, could have-- [LAUGHS] It's Which it is. I mean frankly, it really is. Now I think I've but there's the assumption-- and but a lot of times, there's oh, computer-based learning, or Vulcan reality plugged into kids' doing this all day. And I just want to emphasize, These classes are more class. More time is freed up to than any math class or any type of class And just to capture a little I'll show you a little that captured the energy level. They don't capture some of that happen in these classes, Oh, volume. Volume? [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [CHEERING] -What makes fifth graders cheer? Would you believe math? -Yes. -I'm starting to -These kids are learning with an online school. -You got it right. Good job. -Videos that are explaining difficult concepts [END PLAYBACK] And there's actually that reporter visited. It was either that classroom She saw a little fifth grader 10th, 11th, 12th grade type was fifth grade. [LAUGHTER] But she asked the think this is fifth grade math? And she got a very and she goes, no. I think it's sixth grade. [LAUGHING] And so I think she's in [LAUGHTER] But when we started this, the was great. They were interacting Kids were teaching each other. The teachers loved it. They felt like this is why They were forming They were mentoring students. They were developing skills and the students' They were context switching. They didn't know what they walked into any classroom. Some of the kids actually Actually our biggest complaint came from some of were some subset of the boys that they couldn't It's not a horrible problem. But we still wanted some-- we were little because it was so early. By this point, we were like And so we didn't want to But it was like, to do assessment exams at but just don't because we're still and that's why we were a little early. But we did. The kids take the so we wanted to see the data. And the data told us kind At the fifth-grade level-- and but at the fifth-grade were at grade level or but actually this is a district, and it was than the other classrooms. But even that was because these kids were They're doing algebra. In my videos, I don't as the state standard. And in the other are to some degree And so now at least these they definitely So we weren't doing an important question to ask. But even more, and we're the fifth grade capture what that girl It did not capture the algebra. There was one student who And actually at the time, he and he just started watching But the seventh grade was a And it kind of gels with what And seventh there's because Los Altos-- I actually Altos. So it is a very affluent But the seventh graders This was actually an It's a euphemism And most of these students were of El Camino. Most of these were students. Some of these were disabilities, some of them Or at least they were diagnosed And going into the right over there, 23%-- that's 23% were at grade level. None were advanced. And even the ones that were barely at the And you see 6% were Far below basic is worse than So these were students who didn't answer the test. And after six months-- and double the number of But this was the thing that and we didn't know happened before-- 6% of the This was a remedial math class. This was a class that's normally After you go there, you behind everyone else. And 6% of those students with learning disabilities, told that you're never going or whatever, they ahead of the students in the this year having to be And when they saw that, well, we have to expand this. And so that's why in different ways at the and also at the seventh- Now the last thing and I want to take questions and I want to show a video that we that we got a couple And it's an example of an older And it really helped is that in education talk about the achievement gap. Once again, that's important. People's hearts are But I think the about it is the potential gap. Because that generalizes it. It's not about ethnicity. It's not about economics. It's just about human potential. And I think this video [VIDEO PLAYBACK] -My name is Mark I was really always a C student. I think I was really pitiful in school. I don't think I've ever gotten class ever, particularly. I pretty much thought I was good enough to do in And I went off and I got a But I sort of almost felt that because I was terrible I kind of worked as a saxophone Really what I wanted to do And the last thing that I was trig identities. So I went to YouTube, and I did And Khan Academy was the I watched a bunch of to kind of get up to speed. I watched all the videos I watched all the videos I watched a bunch of videos on subtraction by borrowing. I watched a lot of That was in 2007. I did that until And in the fall of and I decided to and went to Temple University. I majored in getting a second Bachelors. And keep in mind, I don't think in math classes, and I was growing up. And I just finished this year, and I got a 4.0 GPA I got perfect scores on and also on my I ended both calculus classes, with an average There are some that I probably listened over 20 or 30 times. And there is no I could have paid to and repeated the same without at least them getting or at least them thinking is never going to and he should just give up. Where the understanding was watching those through the Khan Academy The impact for me see it growing exponentially So from the bottom of [END PLAYBACK] Yeah, well, thank you. [APPLAUSE] So I'd love to take questions Yeah, right over here. The future of assessment? The future of think there's a lot of I mean, what's fun doing is what most as assessment right now You get them, snapshot, A, B, or whatever it is. Now, every interaction is a form of a practice We're logging everything. But it's not it's not that this is your one shot, your future is ruined. It's you can keep trying like a video game, like like a martial art or And so I do imagine instead of a have a narrative and data And it's not just do they know exponents It's a narrative of, how How much time did they put in? How consistent, how good Did they get back Eventually maybe on when the students are there statistically outcomes when you tutor me And if that's the should be part of that you're an effective an effective teacher. So just that by itself, I think And there's even something because how do you give in a way that's scalable not cheatable? And we've been and I don't know if but the gold standard which you get if you're of the rest. But it's resource-intensive. And you don't even get it But what if you crowd So you have Five Ninjas That's a cheesy name, but or whatever. We'd have to think We're Jedis of Calculus. And someone else might And in order for them five current Jedis would and maybe you record it. They are now Jedi quality. And then they can get And obviously there's And you could even keep stats. And maybe you're always other people are more forgiving. And so you can weight So I think there even oral exams in a scalable get real good authentication. But it's an We don't know the answer. One thing I would like to credentialing world, which and we call education, I'd and the learning get decoupled. Because then what you institutions can And also then the credential [INAUDIBLE]. None of you guys-- you're You're never going you go to the next state, at They're going to say, oh, MIT. I know MIT. But that's not true of universities in the country. You could go to Louisiana or you could go to your and maybe you learned as the best students out your resume is still for maybe the MIT who might or the Harvard grad who And so the signaling So if you actually have strong signals that and if you take it, it's to a great university. Then all of a sudden, done something very disruptive even the high school place. But it is something Yeah? I mean, isn't that snapshot, now with SATs and GREs? So it is a snapshot, except-- as long as we're you only get to take I'd like to see a given this advice to people getting a job. Study for the SAT and If you get 800 on your and you do nothing else, even if you're 50 years old. That will get you an interview So I'd like to see a reality there's no stigma associated. It's a one-time, high-stakes, 16 I'm never going to get It should be there are and we can debate whether You can always improve But yeah, at any time, I but I'm going to make it my goal and then use that as a signal to and I'm logical and I'll But it's a fair question. We'd want to make good as possible. [INAUDIBLE] Oh, OK. OK, whoever has the A lot of study is being the learning profiles, ie, learns certain content. How do you think about that? So a lot of the psychological so I have mixed a large body of research. And we don't want to but the reality is, to determine, especially some how well was the study run? I mean, it's almost impossible change and really pinpoint that And I think because you focus too much, especially it is hard to make a definitive the cause why the students there are theories. It's sometimes a mistake, and say, oh, I Or this is the best And so our approach, I there's actually two There's the science approach, I mean, we're trying to do that, change a variable, And some of that is going on. But what we want is I would call it take on it, which is get a lot of traction, collect as you can, and then iterate it. And iterate fast. And do AB testing. Do control studies, And we have three experiments where we change one And we're able to run Now with that said, we who's leading up our the head of high frequency is a large hedge fund. And so he also found [LAUGHING] Although I think than I did before the meaning. [LAUGHING] But what he's also doing these analytical experiments is looking at the literature. That is something That's actually what he used He used to look at the finance that could be a source of implement in some And so he's now doing that. And in his mind, he thinks 2% And so he's out there But some of it is good. And so he's out and we are going to that we think is in a very Next question? Who has the microphone? Hi. I had a question a lot of research systems in other countries, Have you done any research on marrying the It's kind of the same-- I Well, I guess on the it's kind of a similar And I mean, if any of y'all should be paying attention, this topic or that topic or help or whatever it is, we want So point us to it. What we're resistant all of our focus becomes hard to build fast and I think another kind of hinting at What do we do internationally? It's hard for us right now, and but we're getting pulled We actually are getting of education from oh, we want to run a pilot. We want to do this. And it's very tempting. It's like, wow, that But the more we of those one-off if you're working frankly, it could we're a 20-person We've just gotten to 20. I mean, we were one And so we've made the decision we're going to be very focused and try to be as And if we succeed eventually be able to if we spread ourselves too thin. But one thing we was with some of we are translating the video So that is going to be there. Spanish, Portuguese, and And then we have another after that. So just that I think You could put then on and bring them out into It's not the full experience, the world isn't ready for and all the rest. But hopefully those problems The microphone wins, I'm sorry. Do you have any thoughts about design problems, or even things or public speaking or just Yes, so we have all these So how do you address them with or things like that? And our mindset is education starting with basic introduction And that's what you Basic practice you can do with the exercises. And then you could have less more do proofs, write essays, You keep going up that chain. And the way we is, right now the to do all of these things, or And frankly, it's Because it's even And it never even gets that you just talked about. And so if we can make and make it says thoughtful and logical about and iterating on it and eventually maybe we will to write essays and And someone was telling for chunk up essays and and things like that. I think there will be 20 years to address more Actually John is right now for it will be a hybrid of the where you can record a and if someone pauses the edit the code at that So it's actually an where the state is changeable. So it's a bit of It's a bit of magic to be able But yeah, I think All of those things And right now, the solution is of the traditional then they can hopefully That's an important thing We think we're moving not replacing them or Microphone? Yeah? Thank you so much for what I'm curious-- I've that there are about and engineers in America. If you could crowd source kind of like the way teaching with MIT, call on them to help you with? And the second some important you might want to do in three years to take your There's thousands, and other people who could And even before would have loved to somehow, mean, that's what I was doing. I kind of had to work hard And there's actually of called Cloud Grandmother. It's literally like a who are there kind of on call. And if you need a grandmother, and there's a grandmother. And you can tell ask them what life was and whatever else. [LAUGHTER] And just that I think is But imagine if it was And you're at Khan Academy. You've watched the videos. You've done the exercises. We say, hey, this person still Do you need help? And all of you guys, maybe once you're working, I have lunch from this I could be part of the I'm having office hours. So if any student And if you have enough it would be At any given moment, you waiting to help people. And you have to like safety and all that. But I think you can have a kid has a problem, shows up and says, And you would have access and you could be informed, and and it would be recorded We're not anywhere I mean, the technology I mean, in theory that But I think something be pretty-- I think something for foreign language, too. I have a 2 and 1/2 thinking about getting him and Beijing. And so like they can do their but in each other's languages. [LAUGHTER] And I think that thing to cheap So, yeah, yeah. [LAUGHTER] Microphone? Oh, yeah, right over there. Hi. You talked about bringing that And I was wondering to bring it to other schools, contacted you. And it just seems a huge scale problem but Yeah, so the question is we at one school district. How do we scale this thing? Is that even what And in our organization, We have 3 and 1/2 Most of them are not using And I think one of is that we've been And so that's always But this school maybe more schools But how do you scale it? How do you do that? And so this year we're doing It's not a huge on the order of in fifth and sixth grade. And then we are working a couple of charter schools, Eastside Prep in East Palo Alto. And we're seeing how it and can we get similar And we don't think to be to hand-hold every school We would never be It would require thousands, Our role is to do it and then see what works, what and then kind of make it there so that other-- looks like from our data are doing it in some We have no contact know if they're But if we can make can make that 60,000 or 70,000. And maybe-- I mean, about being a not-for-profit-- want to volunteer. And we're not leveraging But maybe if you I want to try this out I'm sure most of y'all in y'all could go do it. Or you could visit visit some of the schools Then you could adopt I think things like that And I don't know but the real thing and this is where I think maybe fails. It's been all top down. Let's pass a bill. Let's pass a law. Let's do this to union What we're saying is, And let's show the And when, frankly, the see that there's a girl in and their kid is not, And they will say, why And it's free. And so there's no reason. Well, we just I mean, I think the can be a very [LAUGHTER] One very serious problem and, let's say, in middle and high school don't Have you thought about in your extraordinary program It's something that Do we do teacher training? And it was actually something very early. Even when I was just and it was just a I got a letter from a very saying, can we use your I said, well, why don't you Oh. no, no, we can't do that. We'd have to use it for-- I mean, we don't mind it being But in our minds, I think efforts have failed, is on the teachers, which is but it's usually at the And so in ours-- where most of our users are. We're going direct We would teach teachers on how to become of their other students, But it's not even clear that I I guess is the simple answer. But if it's going to we'd be open to it. But yeah, so that's Yeah, next question? Oh, right over there, yeah. So I've done a lot feel like it's really productive and first-hand learning by You talk about actually being for example. So I guess is that one of is to actually get we're teaching experiences Or is that [INAUDIBLE] teachers? Yeah, so the question is, and up there, is Khan Academy or is it eventually And once again, the these simulations and games And so we just have to keep I mean, I told y'all about When I did it with each had a piece of that was one of the And every trade, they on what the exchange price-- and I would put it into so that I would actually have But even then, I said, man, trading platform. And if we build it, then And then you don't You could do stuff for who's going to win the Who's going to win Who's going to win And then all of a sudden you're and fun and game-like, you have to start And you have to start doing But tools like that that right now are very hard. I mean, it's hard for a didn't work at a hedge fund floor works or what and what a specialist is. And we had all of these students. So yeah, we want to get there, Hello. What would you think about And do you have any with this great project as well? Yeah, and I will tell I don't know how many of '99 or 2001 that MIT 2001. But I don't know if y'all Almost every other was exploring some type of like, We're going to create some kind People are going to And frankly, it was one of the as an MIT graduate the gauntlet down and said, This isn't about us trying And we're just going And so I think of a groundbreaking thing that And it really changed a and was a lot of leadership. I think the things is the content wasn't And so I'm actually probably of MIT OpenCourseWare. But it's like Lecture And you're like, OK, well, let's [LAUGHTER] And you go, and I was that I was trying to understand. So I think there's and maybe we can do together to That's why I'm excited Because it is coming from the and the faculty, purposed for this So I think it has a much better something that gets a lot of excited and learning So I see no problem the Khan and the MIT two major institutions. [LAUGHTER] Yeah, So I think I recently read grant from O'Sullivan's to or physical academy. And I was wondering what you or what your plans are. Yes, so we did get that grant. It's actually for One is to actually And we actually brought on two I encourage y'all to They're pretty interesting. And they had already And no one had seen them before. And we were able to just really So they're there. A part of that is actually to build a can use the data, the for their own content. And maybe eventually we can see that are really good, and we But then another third is a physical experience. And we want to eventually get But we're going to start this so that we get full ownership. And now we're going to be able We have real people. OK, what are the games? What are the And as we learn can then document make software tools and then allow any math teacher teacher in the world But we do want to do a school. Because I think when it's not about You can rethink everything. You can rethink the it means to be a school. Because as soon as students why separate them by age group? If teachers aren't do you need to have one teacher 20 students, one Can't you have three Can't you have everyone Can't you have older Do you have to separate calculus from biology, from writing, from Or can all of that be happening And if a student gets inspired-- I was speaking to one of and it's crazy. If a student gets inspired right I am so blown away by genomics. I want to go do research Too bad, no, no. You have essays due tomorrow. You have a problem set. You have all of this stuff. No, sorry, no creative You have too many things. You're on the assembly line. But all of a sudden, if students there's no such thing If your family wants America in October, you can. You're not going to miss school. And you can even do stuff there. Maybe you don't even Maybe you have 20 physical sites And one site has a are experts in art history. One site has experts on physics. And so if I'm in one site and I I can get on Skype with the teacher in London. But I still get the physical and the social experience So there's things that rethink where we're getting We're getting the and we're getting the and the startings of things. And we're actually we're starting Hogwarts. [LAUGHTER] No, and we'll see what happens. I have a 2 and 1/2 year old. So it's for selfish reasons to exist in the next few years. Sal, great talk. Thanks for coming. I think I speak for at least when I ask, are you hiring? I'm I hiring? Yes, and that's my [LAUGHTER] Frankly, this whole predicated on getting the And actually I was at earlier this morning, and they And the case was, It's getting traction, but compete with Google And actually that was a question But the one thing we found we are paying upper And that's something that this isn't about want to do good because it's a not-for-profit. This is about creating content you can create for a long, long, long time. So you don't want to short So we want to get the And frankly, the most reassuring is people like John I mean, Johh-- he literally I wrote jQuery, the in the world. And I was like, yeah, I think [LAUGHTER] But he's the most you have more Twitter But he's not the only one. I mean, he can testify they are somewhat known known figures in their fields. I mean, [? Jace ?] who there's no better I mean, he could be and he could be making And he's deciding We just got-- I won't but there was was very early at a very a very prestigious tech company, we assumed as a philanthropist. Maybe he wanted to write a And he brought his and we talked a little bit about and what we could And then his people kind and he just kind of sat there. And we're like, oh, this is And he said, well, I And I'm like, wow, this guy build a roller coaster, and [LAUGHTER] And he wants to like be near us. And so yes, I encourage And we're looking for want to impact people and everything else. Oh, up there. Sorry, the microphone wins. Hi, over here. I was just wondering if your thoughts on the inherently experiential. So it could be like the trading or like learning how These are things that are reductionist in the approach. Yeah, well, like I said, part is the more you get the skills, and then you eventually-- we're going to get that part intensive, which is the human can focus on the more But then over time, some of these trading games. We can implement to connect with each other We even thought maybe someone can ask a question and the next person in the video format. You have message on people sharing and answering each You could have like that We could implement the can create decision markets. We did another game where the kids had to sticks where in a pile. And then they took sticks and put them and we paid people a penny sticks there were to see really works. And we didn't know And so these are the type of document and share with people. And even better, it on the side in terms and manipulatives so we can go further and And I want to be clear. I don't think we'll ever be purely through software. But it allows a human that much further. Yup, right here. Hi. So I was wondering. I'm a really big like the future would be into school systems been in California schools. But one concern I a school is not for intellectual growth. It's also for emotional But Khan Academy is vary based So I was wondering what Yeah, no, that's And I think this is one But there's one thing I that classroom-- so I agree. Education is actually It's learning, and socialization. And people say that a lot. In fact, a lot of oh, it's about socialization. Don't want to involve computers. But how much get in a traditional classroom? I'm not saying all but a lot of classrooms I sat listening to a Absolute no social. In fact, it's anti-- to be in a room with people and not be allowed to to be able to express yourself. And so what we're talk about the core no, we want kids to get up We want them to In some of these a kid is about to the rest of the kids and start cheering them And so even that is far And we actually want not to be that you and you know calculus now. That's good. That's a good achievement. But it's even a if your peers think Your peers have that You're the best communicator. You empathize with your peers. And once again, the that are on the are the core skills, learning how to do it, what it is, then applying If we could take this off then class time can be more building robots, whatever So I think we can actually socialization. I mean, my middle school I mean, it was not-- [LAUGHTER] So I think there's a lot we can do on socialization. Actually I think, frankly, is more broken in schools Yeah? Oh, well, she's got one, too. OK, well, we'll go here next. So yeah, I actually didn't was before I came here. You have like a halo. I feel like I'm speaking [LAUGHTER] So yeah, I mean, I think I'm taking this I'm sitting down here, I want to go back to use this in public schools. Because if you go to a in Puerto Rico, you're probably It's that bad. And I think this will help having trouble in math, too. Something that I think is there actually, that don't like How do you get them Where is the motivation? So there's a couple of things. And for a place we're actually translating a That will be the first and hopefully port, Although that's not something But the broader question is I mean, that's the fun and this kind of and iterative mentality asks itself that same question. Well, not everyone is How do we get more Well, we can apply OK, let's try this. Maybe if some people that will motivate them. Maybe if someone sees a or you give a talk or you maybe that's what So I don't know if we'll into that motivated as we keep testing and iterating and looking at the data, we'll of people. And we're already seeing that. I mean, even in the classrooms. That seventh grade what blew the was a class where every This is why they And it was a video And they got engaged. There was a healthy level and camaraderie around things. And so I think the fun thing moving in that direction. And then we can keep so it gets even better. And I encourage some of that you can help us do that. And if you like I would go play the [LAUGHTER] Next? Oh yeah. right here. So traditionally, we who's older than us, MIT seal shows an older a mentor-student relationship. So if your ideal world plays anymore, do you any problem, like with people accepting younger or younger people teaching them? And that's an interesting point. And I don't know 100% but my gut feeling right now is Right now, because we or scientific there's huge stigmas, right? A logarithm is a more complex that people encounter But still, 40-year-olds that they don't understand And that's because with a seventh-grade But they're not to karate class and and there's a who is a black belt. And they're not opposed how do you do that? And so it's really about decoupling the concept with And I think when you do think one of the and I think we're helping too, is parents are they don't know to their kids. They think it will somehow And so one, I mean, them stay ahead a little bit. [LAUGHTER] Which we've learned But even better, We've had so many can you tell us on what's a seven-year-old What's a 13-- we're like, no, Because you're supposed to You could be 50, but if you've start right up there And I think that will be-- I mean, it's weird. Academics sometimes makes from someone younger, I feel completely fine. And that's because Right up there. With so many K through middle and high school, what are your opinions on using Yeah, I joke the Facebook a Facebook for a school. So we should use Khan Academy. But I think there's a lot The same way we can look Amazon uses the techniques We could be a productive [LAUGHTER] But it's true. They've perfected some them to water fictional crops. I mean, if that works, they're blazing new territory. And these are directly of stuff we're doing. So I think there's I think we're going And we'll just see. We do very minor Facebook but we do imagine a world You can share it You can do friendly games. You can do multiple people with your social network. We're not doing it yet, that we would love to explore. Yup, right over here? Considering that students learn and that you've are you just a ninja on like Or a Jedi? Are you a Jedi? My wife will tell learned this in business to talk with that I really don't [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] It's a skill. But I think I'm not too guys, is that I love learning. And my life is now-- I get to and teach it, and can experience it But the simple answer is, I but you do four or it does add up And yeah, I suspect many could do what I'm doing. And I think it's just about put yourself out there and there and see what people and keep doing it. I mean, a lot of to do organic chemistry videos. And that was the first-- I but I took 512. And I did all right, but understood organic I might have physics or math. But I was like, no, if I have to understand So I immersed myself in for a month, read went to the used bookstore, was trying to decipher. And I kind of started to get it. Oh, there is a kind And there is an And then I started But so yeah, I think is that I love to and immerse my brain in it, and And frankly, that's why I I talked to a trucking company-- Academy, not a hedge fund. I don't want to make work at a trucking company, and you learn about all and you learn about And so it's kind of the so to speak. Yup, other question? Eventually we'll get the here. This kind of goes back to where she was good but kind of got stuck One of the biggest problems tends to be people learn the and learn how to apply learn the beauty of it. And once they get they can't really or learn proofs and do And what do you And how do you think Khan No, I think that's of the top-down is that at no point on that students should be in awe. At no point does it with Euler identity. It's not there. Even though that is I mean, that's the and it's funny, because so many oh, well, no one is unless you show applications. And look, if you can show applications. There is something But what I always point when people say, when they're saying that And the reason why I say that in a philosophy class. When am I going to use this? When are we going whether there's life after some platonic cave or whatever? No one says in PE, to have to put an What is that good for? No one says that. [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] Not one says that. And that's because They're motivated. They see the fun. There's something visceral. There's something human those experiences that they're even though math class It's not just word games. It's actually going to about the universe that's And it's being lost right now. I talked to a couple of students and one of the we have to give the students And the superficial is, oh, we have useful in banking or have to build a building. But the why is actually, I that's given in the And if you give a even if you give a by the tone of telling the student there's You shouldn't care. But if you really are in if there really is something to you, the student They'll say, wow, this is This is telling me something fits together. And I think yes, if any or if y'all want to volunteer those are the winning videos. Those are the ones all don't have to be there. Not all of my videos are these But if you can, I mean, Yeah? Do you think that made to blow students' minds? How do I feel about textbooks? Yes. And what was the second part? Do you feel like be made to do all the blow students' Or is there something in the I think good books can. I mean, I've read my mind, that are the idea there is profound. Actually, science fiction wow, that is a thought-provoking science fiction, Textbooks don't do that. I mean, sometimes they like, oh, so-and-so And it's just like, And I think I have a bunch of them. They are good references. But I think they have that industry is going. Because I think a textbook for or is supposed to do two things. It's supposed to And I think, frankly, what can go to MIT versus capable of reading that text? I think most of us are but we're actually Most students cannot. They've never had being able to learn from that. And then the practice is at the back with every And the publisher reading what, They can't iterate on it. And so it is, I think, for a large industry. Let me make that Oh, yes. [INAUDIBLE] Sal's been going at this [LAUGHS] So let me first words to the group. Yeah, thank you for having For me, it's so exciting When I come to MIT, I with family on some level. And I get teary-eyed So I'm really Thank you. [APPLAUSE] In this epic room, you are So it's been great It has been great. Oh, thank you. [APPLAUSE]