- This is probably the (upbeat rock music) Oh, every little inch is (upbeat rock music) We don't need any Qsuites I'm gonna show you something even better. (upbeat rock music) Who needs first class? (upbeat rock music) Let's quickly go back to the upper deck because we just got a There you go, your full I have super power, I'm to pull the container forward. (upbeat rock music) (upbeat dance music) It's been a longtime dream for me. Today I'm gonna fly on a cargo plane! And what's better than the one behind me, the 747-8 cargo of Qatar Airways? Let's fly together guys. (upbeat dance music) It's really, really crazy but the cargo loading just So let's check it out. (beeping) - Hi, my name is Guillaume Halleux. I'm the chief officer We are very pleased to welcome Sam today on board our 747-8 freighter Very unique flight today, fully loaded, as quite often with Hong Kong. We expect 34 positions, We expect one engine And very soon Alberto will so that, Sam, you can show our viewers from the outside, the unique Well this is really, A non-stop torrential rain in Hong Kong. But, look at this, 747 to load a cargo in. (upbeat dance music) I'm soaking wet but this is the operation. They must go on. I mean, I'm with all on the frontline, the operation. You must load all the cargo in the plane and in about 40 minutes, we're So hats off to all the people who work under rain or shine like this. (upbeat dance music) - This unit here, as we It's called the power drive unit, PDU. It basically helps the traction of the pallet inside the main deck so that the staff and to push very hard. Each pallet can go up to But sometimes we even So nobody can really move it. Those roller blades here also the movement. So be careful where you step 'cause I don't want you to fall down. - I'm on the flight deck of the nose here. And just one more pallet will come in through the 747 nose. There's already one right here, which I filmed from down under the plane. So there's one more from What's happening, Alberto? - So now, due to the heavy rain, the pallet has a lot - [Sam] Oh the water's - Yeah, so we have to get So that's why they're so that they can remove that excess water. - [Sam] Shake it off. - Yeah, it's part of the job so. - [Sam] Look at all this Yeah, get rid of the water, too wet. - [Man On Radio] (mumbles) - [Sam] So this is how you lock it? - [Alberto] Yeah. - [Alberto] Yeah, yup, and - [Sam] Oh sorry, lift it up? - [Alberto] Yup. - [Alberto] There you go! - We're like fully loaded Ready to go. Look at it, it's still wet! Everything is plastic sealed. - So, Sam, I want you to in the nose part. Look how high it is. It's actually a couple of centimetres from the ceiling of the plane there. This is pure optimization on the freighter. This is how we maximise the aircraft and we move as much cargo as possible in an efficient manner. (upbeat dance music) - [Sam] Oh, barely, barely made this door. - [Guillaume] See how precise it is? - [Sam] Precise, yes, oh wow! - [Guillaume] People like Rolls-Royce, when they design an engine, or GE, they make sure that the maximum of the aircraft available in the market. Because they know that otherwise - That's right! Talk about real estate here. Every little inch is precious here on the 747 cargo. Just barely fits the ceiling this engine. They're still having problems moving. So it's going back and (upbeat music) - So Sam, what you just The turn meaning that the to the aeroplane, then they have to turn it 90 degrees in order to load it. (upbeat, funky music) - So now the engine is in position. What we'll do is listen to the load master and apply tie down on the engine. We'll spend approximately - Normally, we use to secure the pallets on the aircraft. But for this type of loading, which is centre loaded on the 747, we have to use straps. We cannot use locks to secure the cargo. That's why we are having all these straps to secure the cargo. There's nothing else holding (upbeat, funky music) - On each side of the 747 freighter, you have a narrow passage 'Cause the whole main deck, everywhere in the centre is occupied And today we have full cargo pallets. This plane's huge! Taking 135 tonnes capacity of cargo. - Hi guys, I'm Captain Orso. Today doing the freighter flight, Qatar Airways cargo to Doha from Hong Kong on our beautiful 747-8. And let's move on for Okay before each flight, we check that all wheels are in a good position, that there's All the tyre pressure is We have our landing lights. Everything looks nice. Entrance of the pickup tubes That's very important for - [Sam] You mean these two? - [Captain] Yes. - [Sam] This is the sensor, right? - This is the sensor. It takes the air and we have also static sensors and according we get the air speed out of Here we check that everything is good with our powerful GE We check downstairs that no hydraulic, no fuel. And then proceed forward (upbeat music) - We have a huge engine - I was told Rolls-Royce Trent 700. - Exactly, the one used on the Airbus 330. And of course since it's so big, we have to strap it down very tightly. - You want it extra strapped down. - [Captain] Exactly to - [Sam] So you do the final - Exactly, before we close the doors, I come down and check all the locks and everything inside the main deck. And then after if I agree with everything, I do sign off the load sheet (upbeat music) - And now I'm just climbing up the stairs to go to the upper deck, And where also there's a crew rest where I'm gonna sit today as (upbeat music) - Suggest you to keep If they see anything that or we are already in turbulence. Sometimes it's a clear air turbulence. We cannot see before. I will set the seatbelt signs on. So you just sit. If there is anything today if we have to abort the I will call you guys supernumaries. So if I say, &quot;Supernumaries, be seated,&quot; just keep seated. Don't stand up. We don't use this door for any emergency. We have another door right here. If we tell you to evacuate in such a case, which will hopefully not happen. - [Sam] Right here. We have this done and in such a case, we go always already come to you. And we will open the and then we will slide down all together. - These are the seats There are six seats, two Ciao, Giancarlo. - Today first officer from Italy. - Today on our flight that'll be around seven We will cruise initially at since we are really topped And thereafter, after we plan to climb to 32,000 feet to continue until Doha. - Captain, I wanna know Have you flown passenger flights? I want to know what kind of difference as a pilot flying cargo - Yeah, I did passenger I feel that cargo flights for the crew. - There is no passengers, If the load is finished, you - Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, bye! - Good to go! (intense music) - [Man On Radio] Qatar 841 niner behind the landing triple seven. Line up and wait, 1007 right behind it. - [Captain] Behind landing 07 is right behind the Qatari 841 niner. (dramatic music) - [Man On Radio] Qatari 841 Niner, wind at the upwind end 100 degrees, one eight knots from a 07 - [Captain] Clear to take off 07 right, Qatari 841 niner. (dramatic music) Rotate. (mumbles) - [Giancarlo] Gear up. (mumbles) - [Man On Radio] Qatari 841 niner contact for departure from 123 days night clear. - [Capatain] One two three point eight, Qatari 841 niner bye. (dramatic music) - [Sam] Fly over Bangladesh, Calcutta, just north of Bombay, over Arabian Sea. Were flying over north down to Qatar. So after takeoff, we're - Yes. - Alberto is the load master. I think you are also - I will be onboard today yes. - Yeah, we'll see what kind of meals on a cargo plane we have, gourmet, five-star Qatar Airways food. - Of course. That we call the magic box. So we have - Yes I don't know what's why What's the magic? - [Alberto] So - [Sam] Oh! - [Alberto] Snacks. - [Sam] Snack. - [Alberto] Snacks, cookies. - [Sam] Oh this is nice. This is like nuts. - [Alberto] Yeah. - [Sam] All right, cookies. - [Alberto] Cookies, some wheat. - [Sam] Weeatbix, wow! Cool! - [Alberto] Plus we also have - [Sam] Coffee, oh, Nairobi coffee. Oh yes, cup noodles. - [Alberto] (laughing) Of course. We have salmon. - [Sam] Salmon, ooh. - [Alberto] We also have chicken. - [Sam] Chicken. - [Alberto] And pasta. - [Sam] What's this one, pasta? - [Alberto] Pasta. - There's no flight attendants. So you gotta help yourself, order your food, and help yourself. Much quicker, no? (upbeat music) Well there are six seats on the upper deck on the 747-8 freighter here. I mean like these seats but they do recline pretty deep. It's like an old La-Z-Boy. It feels very, very comfy. - In order to go downstairs, we have to carry this oxygen bottle like in the passenger aircraft. So this in case of a decompression. So, in case we need it, place the mask, breathe normally. That's it. - Now I'm just going downstairs. So now, I'm wearing this oxygen mask in case of decompression. Just going down to the deck (upbeat music) I was just looking out this window. It has amazing engine view. Okay, let's go continue now. Coming to the middle of the fuselage, where the engine is now. (upbeat music) - So these flashing lights mean that the seatbelt sign has been turned on. So we have to return to the So. - Let's quickly go back to the upper deck because we just got a seatbelt. There's a turbulence. Oh I can tell you It's a couple kilos, it's not easy. Ooh, better sit down and seatbelt now. Captain, the CB, what's the ceiling like? It looks really bulbous. - According to the weather it's going up to 45,000 feet. It's well above us so than avoiding as we're - You are small adjustment not going through, okay. - Exactly, it would be real dangerous to go inside those clouds. And we are just going, we try Sometimes we have to do larger ones. Like right now, we are 30 miles to the right of our track, There is no other chance to avoid them. - So now, I'm gonna We don't need any Qsuites I'm gonna show you something Follow me. Now, look at this! I have my own private bedroom here. There you go, your full flat There's nothing better than this. Your feet doesn't hit the wall and you know you got all the room. Look at how wide this seat is. And it's full flat, it's This is better than all I have tried out. (upbeat music) We finally went past the weather system. The seatbelt sign's off now. So I'm going down to check out the cargo. (upbeat music) 747 hold about 145 tonnes, (upbeat music) Oh my god, this part is really narrow! By the nose coming out Oh, very narrow, made it, geez! (upbeat music) (white noise) Actually self-serving and now I'm going to What a great place to have a meal at. This is probably the best Ah, look at this, beautiful, huh? - Yeah, that looks good. (upbeat music) - Nothing better, cruising 34,000 feet. Just flew over the Indian coast, on our way toward Arabian Sea and having my second meal in the cockpit. (dramatic music) - [Man On Radio] Qatari clear to land, surface - [Captain] Clear to enter - [Other Man On Radio] (mumbles) - [Robot Voice] 50, 40, 30, 20, 10. - [Giancarlo] Speed brake up. - [Man On Radio] Qatari 34 I BOEs 136. - [Man On Radio] Qatari continue approach, Q and H (dramatic music) - Welcome to Doha! Thank you very much for joining us today. And I hope you have enjoyed the flight. Hope to see you on another All right, Giancarlo - Yeah, thank you and. - So this is your last flight I heard before you go back to your home country, stationed at your home country. - That's correct. - Are you gonna miss this? - Of course. - This is an amazing job so I here in Doha so it's time to go home. - Well, thank you so much for looking after me on the flight. I learned so much and this - Yes of course, even for me this is I will remember this for a Thank you very much also. - And guys, it's not the end. We haven't shown you all loading, offloading activities in Doha. So stay tuned! Super, super humid in Doha here. But nothing better than What a glorious arrival! (upbeat rock music) - Welcome to the Hamad This is our hub. This is where all the transit cargo that came to Doha will be broken down, sorted, and put on a connecting flight. Again, similar process as the passengers. So this is an example that is ready to go and to be loaded. The three components, the aluminium sheet, this is the base of the pallet. The boxes inside have been positioned to a certain height to make And then the plastic sheet And the net, and the to avoid that the content collapses on the side of the pallet. (upbeat rock music) Sam, earlier in the flight today, we talked about the and contour of the pallets, right? If you come with me to that side, you clearly see that one side with a top, and then it goes And the arch is designed of the aircraft in order on the pallet. (upbeat rock music) - Sam, we're now in a danger zone. We're talking dangerous goods. So we have classfied them - Very dangerous. So we've classified them And they're segregated from one another. So you have your corrosives. You have your flammables over there. And further down here. I don't want to go too close, but again, properly segregated. So it's all in safe hands. And this specific one is So it will not travel in the only cargo aircraft. So most dangerous goods - Not all, but certain categories. It's all categorised and that are displayed on the box. So this has the categories so. (upbeat rock music) - Qatar Airways, we transport - A thousand cars? - To around the world, It's a main deck car. It's too high to go on But sometimes we move Ferraris or Porsches in the passenger plane. So don't be surprised through the window, you under your feet. (upbeat rock music) - Sam, this illustrates that we have at Qatar to a better world by to people and populations in need. So we do it twofold. We do it with NGOs. We also do it, part of meaning we ship some cargo free of charge to a number of locations - We are in our live animal facility, full air-conditioned facility where we look after all of our Little cat here going, coming from Sofia and going to Jakarta, fabulous nation. - [Sam] From JFK to Lahore. Beautiful cats. (meowing) - This is area for dogs where in from Washington here for Doha. So the owner, very happy owner, will be soon collecting his beloved dog. - So Frank, what kind of as cargo? - Oh Sam, we go from zebras to lions to elephants, but not (upbeat rock music) - Welcome to our climate control centre. This is where all the We guarantee temperature In the other room over there And we carry here pharmaceutical as well as food and any sort (upbeat music) - It's actually really easy. These wheels made it. I mean you can push four tonne by one man. On your own, you can Oh, look, you got fresh fish coming in. It looks really easy, they (upbeat rock music) Well thanks for showing me so much. I actually never thought about you know when people think about cargo, we don't really think much And now seeing all the facilities you have like the perishable one, like You have so much, so much areas. You have all sorts of cargo. You know when you think about, for example, the phone I'm holding here. This came in on a cargo plane. - You're right, Sam. Cargo is an industry to the wider audience. However, it's everywhere. The shirt you're wearing The watch, your iPhone, and the salmon you had last night in your hotel in Hong Kong came to Hong Kong on Qatar Airways cargo. - Wow, well thank you very much for showing me. - It's a huge pleasure to fly and also see the world-class - It was a great pleasure to have you. Thank you. I have super power. I'm gonna use one of my fingers to pull the container forward. Watch it. Using one finger, let's go. (squeaking) Wow, that was the super power I have after the 747 flight, but honestly, it is an empty container. Thank you so much for watching!