If you observe we can still see the Big Bang When we look in any direction, Hello, I'm Hitoshi Murayama, I received questions from WIRED.jp's So I'll be answering questions This is Space Support. The first question is from Funiyo. &quot;I heard that there are more stars &quot;Is that true?&quot; It's hard to count all the grains But comparing to only the grains there are many more stars. Then again, there may be so the answer may differ depending The next question is from GT Robo. &quot;Even though so many stars &quot;why is the night sky That's because space had a beginning. Space is 13.8 billion years old So the light from stars born hasn't reached us yet. How many stars we can see is limited, So that's why. Because space had a beginning. The next question is from Yuyu. &quot;Can the shapes of constellations Yes. In fact, the shapes have If we could look at them the shapes would appear different. The closer stars move especially fast, so the shape of the constellations The next question is from Oremika. &quot;Does no air in space mean &quot;Or is it filled Even though it appears empty, it's filled with an unknown substance We used to think that the galaxy was but actually, there are a few stars So, we believe that the space also filled with dark matter. And this dark matter is like our mother. Because of dark matter, Wish to meet her someday. The next question is from Chiken B. &quot;There's no air in space, then how can That's a great question. It's true that nothing can burn But when things explode in space, heat is generated When the nucleus that energy is more tremendous It's generated from weight So even though there is things still can burn And the pieces that come are what your bodies are made of. We are actually from outer space. The next question is from Eimu. &quot;If the solar system was as big as me, If the solar system was the size of the galaxy would be You are this tiny. This is the galaxy. It's big, isn't it? The next question's from Azuki. &quot;Do you think we can observe outside &quot;And what do we know about it The universe we see is so, that's all the light we can see. But as time goes by, light from farther Then we might be able to see farther. But the truth is that So I'm more worried that than what we're seeing now. What we know is that we can measure On Earth, if you go one way, How do we know that? If you draw a large triangle the sum of the interior angles is If you find out how much larger, So if we draw a large triangle in space it should be about 180 degrees, And when we calculate, we know that the space size goes farther than But we don't know exactly how big it is. Next question is from Eiko Kano. &quot;We hear that the Big Bang occurred &quot;and the universe was born &quot;Then, what was in space &quot;Was there space to begin with?&quot; &quot;I actually don't think it would be &quot;if there was no space to do so.&quot; No one actually knows So far, people guess that there was neither space nor time But the truth is in the dark. Sure, space is expanding. But it doesn't mean that there was space Rather, space itself is growing. It's not expanding but the current theory is And what's beyond that is still space. So, we don't know what was there I don't think there is anything The next question is from... &quot;How do we know there was a Big Bang?&quot; That's because its picture was taken. This is a picture of the Big Bang. The universe started So if you observe we can still see the Big Bang When we look in any direction, So from where we are, so it's a ball like this. We are in this. Depends on the direction, It's exaggerated, but this is The red part is where our galaxy is Everything else is light that So we know the Big Bang really happened The next question is from Keita. &quot;Can we tell which star was born first?&quot; Actually, the universe started but later, heat from that went away. There were no stars It was the dark age in space. It's believed to have lasted Then, the first stars were born. They must've been born here, there, But we haven't confirmed them yet. It's way too far to observe one star. Hoping to see the first galaxy the observation is being continued. So, there might be an observation report Next is Leelee. &quot;From the point of particle physics, We don't know if they exist, but One theory states that there are That's how many We think that way because the current It's so well made and It's like, &quot;throwing enough mud Some say that our universe is just one of the bunch That's why people think that But since no one's ever seen one before, Next question is from Yunomi-kun. &quot;Is there any possibility that No. Because if there is that would probably happen Since other universes are it's highly unlikely that But after a while, our universe may be in a higher place. and if there was a universe with lower Then it would be a different universe, and it would eventually stop Such a possibility has been considered. But, there's nothing Karamito. &quot;Is there a tremendously large star...&quot; &quot;that has a stronger gravitation &quot;And what would happen &quot;Would the black hole grow over There are stars but they're also black holes. For example, we already know that there is a black hole that weighs We can tell this from observation. Not only that, we also know that there's a black hole that's billions of times On the other hand, actually stronger The size of a black hole is The distance is larger. So the gravity at one location is So if you want to experience very and get pulled into it. No, I don't think you should do that. We can see that a black hole is actually When you observe one closely, What is happening? Gas that is passing by is And it's getting hot and screaming. But once you're inside, you can't see it Black holes are getting bigger by eating And since they never go over capacity, The next question comes from melon. &quot;When we look for life &quot;we often look for planets with water &quot;But organisms that need oxygen &quot;Organisms on other planets &quot;So when looking &quot;why would you look for a planet with This is a good question. If there is life that is completely they could still live But we're organisms made of atoms. And the nature of the molecules and Considering that, without water, nutrients can't Without oxygen, the body cannot absorb That's why we think both oxygen But we don't know what organisms so there could be organisms But we think they probably need so we often search for planets that We're conducting such research. The next question is from Takamen. &quot;I heard that time would slow down&quot; &quot;as we approach light speed.&quot; &quot;If we board a spaceship &quot;can we feel hundreds Yes, that's correct. Say, you'll go to a star If your spaceship can move you may feel that you have But it's been a few hundred years so unfortunately, they are all dead. So, if you come back, So, if you are close to This is an experimentally observed fact. Next, Sogen. &quot;In science fiction novels and movies, &quot;Is that possible?&quot; Yes, it is. Warp is like a shortcut through space. But we can't just warp on our own. Say, space is flat like this. And imagine if it's folded like this. There might be a shortcut When the shortcuts are ready and Rather than going all the way, That is the concept of warp. Unfortunately, such a shortcut through space So I don't think it's possible But if there was from the beginning, Next question is from Riuko. &quot;I have a question.&quot; &quot;I heard that matter is &quot;and part of life at some time, &quot;Is the total amount of matter &quot;Or does it increase or decrease?&quot; The total amount of matter can change The current universe has become cold. So there is almost no case where But sometimes, pairs of matter and Sometimes the anti-matter meets That kind of reaction is happening. The beginning of the universe has And that energy changes into matter. That kind of universal flow But the universe is cold now, so the total amount of matter is Next question is from Takarabako. &quot;How much will humans understand A lot can be understood. For example, a new satellite, Using a telescope, we might be able to observe stars Also, maybe dark matter, People's expectations are growing I think that many things are but I don't think we'll know everything Okay, the last question. It's from Sashimi. &quot;What's the greatest attraction &quot;or being interested the universe?&quot; In my opinion, to know Our bodies are born from the dust so our home is the universe. To know the universe, who we are, and what's going to happen. I think it is very interesting How was Space Support? So when you think about the universe, Looking at the Earth from space, it's a beautiful planet There are 8 billion people and we often fight or destroy But seeing the Earth from we should all get along So if you look at Earth from space, So, to know the universe is Did you have fun? Thank you!