Finally a cool lens from Sony! This is the new 28 to 70 millimeter F2 GM, and after lenses On fire like the new 85 1.4 I know a lot of people were hoping Grabbing, Sony is finally throwing down the gantlet From the likes of canon. And saying, hey, we can make a 28 to. 70 millimeter lens at F2 as well, Smaller. Dramatically lighter. So if you are a. Sony user that has been. Jealous. Of your canon friends for. Having such a cool lens, well, In this video, I'm going to be. Reviewing this magical new lens Wedding filmmaker. Telling you if it's a good choice or corporate And speaking of wedding. Filmmaking, Wedding, I have a free workshop that's going to show how to book Days or less. That I'll link to down in the video Also, for the sake of ethics, or sponsored by Sony Will sadly be returning to them Is a bummer Anyways, what first struck. Me about this At 918g. This 28 to 70 feels far closer in weight To 70 Mark one GM lens. This new 28 to 70 only weighs 32g which is totally wild and shows you just how much work Size and weight of this lens. you allow me one more weight comparison. Now, remember how I mentioned This new 20. 8 to 70 is dramatically lighter than. Canon's 28 to 70 option? I was not joking This new Sony is 36%. Lighter than the 28 to 70 from Canada. We're talking. 918g for the Sony versus 1430 or 2.02 pounds for the Sony, versus 3.1. Five for. Canon. Yes, Sony literally Lighter than what you get from. Canon. Let's talk more. About the size of this new Sony lens, too. Let me preface by saying a girthy lens, bigger around than many of. Sony's other options. You're not gonna be able get your hand all the way around It's not uncomfortably. Large to hold, and it's. Only 92. Point nine millimeters in width compared Sony says their 28 to 70 is 11% And if you want a good idea of the size. This. Lens has an 86 And whenever. Millimeters longer than Sony's And then when you zoom it in even more surprising Look at it. This lens only gets about three fourths This is way less than. How something like a 24 to 70. Extends. And let me say to the weight Whenever you zoom Minimal as well. Why should you care about this? Well, if you were a filmmaker. And you commonly find yourself I do, you should be really excited. About this, going to have to rebalance your gimbal. You'll even have to think about it Initially balance And the only way This lens being improved. Is if Sony had opted. To go for an internal zoom, never extended at all, instead, That seems like Easy to do, considering how short of an extension But hey, I'm not. An engineer in Japan. Making these things, and regardless. This is such a small weight shift Zoom wouldn't really make much Wrapping up the weight and size portion of this review, This lens is an f two. It's starting to. Rival a lot of prime lenses in regards And to let in that much light. A lens To have a lot of glass, But Sony have pulled off some. Technological wizardry Less glass and keep the. Weight and size down. It's really impressive. Talking more about the f two aperture now. Whenever I saw this lens, I immediately that I had reviewed their new A very. Impressive lens. Complaints about that lens, with the. First being that it only had. A zoom range of 17mm from wide. Which was not that large. This reduced the. But here comes Sony with a lens but now gives you 42mm of zoom range, dramatically more versatile. Oh, and the Sony also weighs 32g less. Than the sigma. To be clear, the sigma is also an f 1.8 I really don't think you're going a difference between these two lenses. And most of the. Filmmakers that I know would much rather have the extra zoom range versus We do need to talk about the other controversy of that And that is a controversy that this new These lenses are 28mm on the wide end. And I've heard many complaints from. Filmmakers saying that this is not white Sprinkle in some added spice. Of rumors Saying that this new Sony 70 F2 and not. A 28 to 70. And although I'm recording this review once it's officially announced, I'm People that are. Upset. Let's say that this lens is not wider. To that, I would say remember that And while it's. Fun to get excited Easy to overhype a lens, a camera, it's officially released. And we know the exact specs. I do think that at some point 70 F2 Considering how much tech. And research it looks like Sony to 70 and I'm betting that add those extra would make this lens significantly heavier, larger, and more expensive, They like creating smaller, And as someone that films weddings a camera and lenses around all day, So just like with my Sigma Don't think that. This lens only being 28mm And once you start to use it. You're not going to necessarily But hey, that's just my opinion. If you are at all concerned, Before you pony up Talk more about that soon. Back to the. Size and weight of this lens. Now, though, all of these size and weight If the lens didn't. Create a high quality image, or had a lot of weird distortion Etc.. But I'm happy to tell you. That this lens creates Image and F2. The bouquet looks gorgeous, You're not using an f 2.8 lens. All of the footage that I film with The colors looked. Great. It's everything that you would expect Now at F2. Unfortunately, I don't have a canon. Camera with their 28 to 72 do a direct. Comparison to, but Sony were pretty darn. Emphatic whenever they showed me this. Lens, Sharper than the offering from canon, Eventually, and do a comparison That could be a lot of fun. Back As you would expect from a modern Sony autofocus and manual focus performance how much glass I was really impressed by how fast Sony. Has been targeting be capable of autofocusing at 120 frames This one can do that too, When I also tested Focus. Breathing, I'm happy to tell you And in addition, it also supports their focus Feature, which is in pretty much all. Of their newer cameras at this point, focus breathing with a very minimal crop. So you could just turn that on if you're stressed at all Of course, this is also a modern GM lens, so it comes all the features two programable buttons on the front, switch, aperture control ring with a switch to make it clipless, In addition, you have another switch. Up here at the top that's very cool. That lets you switch. Between having a smooth so depending on the type of zooms you want to be, you can flip the switch now let's talk price. Sony has told me. They're targeting a price of $2,800 Which is definitely a healthy But whenever you consider the canon 28 to 70, suddenly Sony starts to look. Pretty competitive. And that's really what I feel like. The entire creation of Sony's 28 to 70 Sony looked at what canon had made with A few years. And we can make a lens that is 1 pound lighter, 11% smaller, sharper People with Sony cameras don't have to be Maybe now it's time for canon users So should you buy it? In my opinion, Lens that does a lot of things well. But a 24 to 70. AF2 point Let's say. Let me just say that this 28 to 78, only. F two, on And if I was looking for a lens and still perform very well, this is where I start to think to shine as an all in one option literally all day. If you can envision yourself doing that and using this lens That's when I. Start to think that the high price You can let me know in the comments And while you're down there, to check out my free Wedding This guy is. Going to show you To purchase to film a wedding. It's going to help That you don't. Need. You can download completely for free Thanks so much for watching Audio is rolling. Video is rolling. Okay. This is the Sony 20. 8 to 70 millimeter review right here. You can do a few different intros. Then we'll jump right into all this. Cool. Then I'll just do that Finally, a cool lens from Sony. This is the new 28 to 70 millimeter F2 GM. Finally, a revolutionary lens from Sony. This is the new 28 to 70 millimeter F2 GM. Finally, an exciting lens from Sony. This is the new 28 to 70 millimeter F2 GM. Finally, a cool lens from Sony. This is a new 28 to 70 millimeter F2 GM. And after lenses On fire. Like the new. 80 5F1 .42. For example. And after lenses that arguably didn't World on fire like their new 85 1.4 Mark. Two, for example, which I know a lot of attention grabbing, Finally, a