- Out here, it's Monday. In here, it's Friday. - [Speaker] In the 70s and 80s, TGI Fridays grew in popularity as the first singles bar in the US. A happy hour hotspot where But TGI Fridays has since lost its flair, closing over 200 locations And in November, the for bankruptcy citing a and fallout from the pandemic. - TGI Fridays went from to being a shell of itself. - [Speaker] So what went wrong? New York restaurateur Alan Stillman says he opened the first TGI Fridays in 1965 to meet the flight attendants in his neighborhood. - Is it fair to say you because you wanted to meet women? - Absolutely fair. Not only fair, but accurate Stillman says the restaurant by a $5,000 loan from his mom. - I was just out to have a very good time. It exploded so quickly. - TGI Fridays really knew its - The people that were and they were looking to they were looking to stand at a bar. - [Speaker] In the early days, bartenders at the restaurant that involved memorizing and learning tricks to - You gotta make your job fun. You're out there. That's what bartending is all about. - TGI Fridays is famous for having this annual bar championship where bartenders would compete and who had the best technique and skills. - [Speaker] Its bartenders also for his role in the 1988 movie &quot;Cocktail.&quot; - [Speaker] The bartender. - [Speaker] TGI Fridays opened in the US in 1967, then expanded - They've had and had of other countries, and I think that did help get its name established. It kind of became synonymous (upbeat music) - [Speaker] The company started to shift its strategy in the 90s and 2000s, away from bar and grill to focus more Some industry experts because it made the brand's Its US sales peaked in 2008 and fell continuously after the recession. Then in 2014, 2 private equity Triartisan later bought - There were changes that were made, like unlimited app deals. - [Speaker] Endless - More focus on some kind of deals to try to get more than just the - [Speaker] All day, only at Fridays. - [Speaker] In 2017, TGI Fridays signed a financial agreement known as Whole Business Securitization. This is where investors lend money to a company in exchange for bonds. In the case of TGI Fridays, by its franchisee royalties. - Whole Business Securitization is something that some other and Jimmy John's had experimented with in the 2000s and 2010s. It's a great way to borrow upfront, but there's, you know, covenants and risks if something goes wrong. And the big thing that went wrong for TGI Fridays was the pandemic. - [Speaker] In 2020, the company closed and its total sales fell below under this financial agreement. This meant that all the royalties to the company had to go - An actual silver lining for TGI Fridays after the pandemic hit was but then other chains opened up as well and other restaurants and that siphoned off - [Speaker] So TGI Fridays got creative to compete by selling sushi. - [Speaker] TGI Fridays has Krispy Rice. - [Speaker] The private equity firm that owns TGI Fridays had invested in a ghost kitchen platform called C3. And one of the brands on C3 was a sushi brand called Krispy Rice. The chain began by hosting Krispy Rice's to go operations in some of its kitchens, and eventually started serving that sushi in its restaurants. - From talking to that was a bad move for TGI Fridays and it made for the restaurants and it just to justify that. - [Speaker] TGI Fridays didn't respond to requests for comment. By 2023, TGI Fridays was - There was some decline in and hospitality and being able to reinvest back in the restaurants because remember, all to the investors and not the restaurants. - We waited two hours for our food. - Tastes old. - [Speaker] And stress only made matters worse. - TGI Fridays went through and I think that was disruptive - [Speaker] In late 2023, TGI Fridays brought in to try to improve operations, but they couldn't overcome the - This securitized debt they took on 2017, I think really complicated things and also led to their really which is bankruptcy. - [Speaker] In April, the to be acquired by its and to go public on the - This potential IPO in the UK with their biggest franchisee there was really a Hail Mary pass. They didn't really have a lot of other options at this point, but that did not come to be. - [Speaker] TGI Fridays isn't alone in its financial struggles. Restaurant chains and operators to declare the most bankruptcies TGI Fridays has closed dozens - They also got kicked so it's been a long time coming. The broader change among casual dining and where people wanna go out and hang out has been a - [Speaker] The company's which are independently owned and operated, stayed out of bankruptcy. - Franchisees have a lot of questions. It's about what this and who's the CEO of the and support, and does this brand last? - Friday. - [Speaker] Friday. - Friday. (yodeling)