- What's up guys, I have 10,000 presents. I have an army of elves which basically means I'm Santa Claus. I'm gonna do everything in need have the best Christmas ever. So let's get started. But instead of a sleigh, for our 10,000 toys. Let's do it. - [Group] Yeah. - I'm so glad we got rid of the sleigh. This is so much faster. We have a private jet with 10,000 toys. I'm gonna drop you each with thousands of toys. You're gonna give them all away. - [Group] Yeah. - [Group] Yeah. - [Group] Yeah. - [Man] Me and Chris made at this children's hospital of presents. So we're here at the first of toys. Look at all those bad boys. Obviously we're not gonna 'cause it's a little disrespectful in kids' faces. So we're just gonna leave and then they can just grab - Let's go. Four down, a lot more to go. (jolly music) I got bags of presents. And that's the last of the presents. Yay, we're off to the next location. - [Man] Then we went straight to DC and hit a different children's hospital and it's safe to say - [Man] You got it. - We're just doing it. - [Man] You got it. - I'll give you a three of these for that. - I'm not in charge. (laughs) - [Man] Now that we're done This is where we are. This is where the private jet dropped off Jake, Marcus, Chandler. Let's check on Jake. - We are at Le Bonheur Children's Hospital in Memphis Tennessee, we got Let's go hand 'em out. - [Man] And as you can see, Jake gave away thousands of toys. Now let's see what Marcus - We got a truck full of toys. Let's go give 'em out. - [Man] And guess what? Marcus did the same. He had truck loads of toys and he gave them away Now let's wrap up things on - We're finally here, let's (kids cheer) (jolly music) - I want to thank Mattel for helping and donating all these toys to these kids. They're really gonna love them. (group cheers) - Now it's time to help homeless - [Group] Yeah. - It's currently 20 degrees outside. So homeless shelters Guys, you know the deal, We're gonna need more carts. - [Man] Kobe. - I can't believe that worked. - Whose fault was that? (dramatic music) - [Man] Bruh. - All right, elves, now They didn't tell us what size, so we're just gonna buy 'em all. Let's keep going. - I think I might have to buy these. - So the homeless shelter I want all of them. They said they need a lot of wool socks. - Elves, I need the next cart. Wait, attention. We found more thick wool socks. There we go, boys. They also said they needed gloves. (upbeat music) These are $30 a pop. And we bought a ton of them. But guess what, I'm Santa who cares? - Yeah, Santa rocks. - The issue with toilet paper and paper towels is it So we have like 30 carts. (upbeat music) Now we need some tissue. - You ever heard of elf on a shelf? - Chandler, you're a special human being. Next thing on the list really need peanut butter. - Oh my God, Peanut butter's - Next up is they really need cereal. - Look at all the faces. - [Man] I think that guy - [Man] Why get toast - Dude, they have beans. - Beans was not on the list. We need diapers, toiletries, and... - Beans. Those are canned food. - Canned food was on the list. - We're gonna have to - And formation. So we need a lot more food. So I want pallet of that. - [Group] Pallet of that. - Pallet of apples. - [Group] Pallet of apples. - Pallet of green beans. - [Group] Pallet of green beans. - Not Oreos. - [Group] Not Oreos. - Campbell's'. - Ritz. That should be good. And one of the last things And then we need toothpaste All right, Jake, go get We're running outta time, they're gonna grab that. Toothbrushes, they need toothpaste. - Colgate. - They give people that come Obviously a lot of people come Every time we go to a homeless shelter, they're always in short supply. This is a few thousand, we're good. Wow, this is a ton of stuff. Wow, this isn't even everything. Please don't ever stop - It's so much fun spending this money. - I need more views so I can keep this up. After this video, go watch 10 others. Now that we've got literally everything the homeless shelter and food we're gonna go drop it off. I think it's time we show Open it up, so this is one U-Haul. This is our second U-Haul, This is our third U-Haul, And this is our fourth U-Haul, So now we have to unload this and we don't like doing lots of unloading. - All right, I'll multiply. - We're gonna do a terrible jump cut. Oh, there we go. All right, guys, we need to Let's do it, let's go. (group cheers) You're good. - You're good. - Keep going, it's only Chris. - It's only me. - I'm so unimportant. - Bought a Jackpot. - [Man] Bada beans. - So the first stop's a food bank, so this is all the canned food. Let's do it. Beans. - Beans. - Corn. (small voices chatter) - We're here to help people. (upbeat music) - So Jennifer here works - Yes. just tell our viewers where stuff like that? - So the food that we get will actually go out to they'll go out to other counties as well. And it goes to many different agencies, soup and food pantry. - Do they need beans? - Beans? Yes. - We got a lot of beans. - [Man] Beans. anything that you basically people would want that as well. - So just to confirm, this - This will do a lot of good. In fact, a lot of this will - Oh no, really? - And if not on Monday, it - All right, well, that's a challenge. How much do I need to make it past Monday? I'll go buy everything in Sam's club. - You could, you could. I'm gonna go get more. Only enough canned food until Monday. Well, how about this? Now. (dramatic music) All the canned food. They said this would I want until Sunday, the next one. Good, you stack those boxes. Chris, joke. - Don't worry, it's all peachy. - I think we've brought plenty of beans. No more beans, go grab other canned stuff. - Beans. - [Man] All right, all right. - I have such a little, little body and these can are so heavy. - [Man] Jimmy, I think this elf is having some problems here. - He's elf dysfunctional. Let's see how long this food lasts now. (jolly music) (vehicle beeps) - A wonderful gift, thanks very much. - So now we're actually gonna go help a local homeless shelter. Let's make a quick pit stop at a college to pay some tuition. We're currently on a college campus and we're gonna pay some tuition. - Dude, I've cried here a lot. - Hello there, sir. So I'm gonna ask you a question. If you answer it right in three seconds, I'll give you money. - All right. Are you ready? Doesn't matter. Who was our 23rd President? 1, 2, 3, I don't care. You want money? (laughs) Here you go, here's a semester of tuition. - Are you serious? - And here is 13 cents. - We have our next victim. - All right, let's go get 'em. - [Man] Victimizer. - We're gonna play a game if you get it right, - What is the best Nickelback song? - Oh, oh. none of them. (sad music) - Yeah. - Here you go. - That's crazy, thank you so much. - You're very welcome. Hey, how's it going? - Do you wanna play a game with me? - Heel. So I have a question we'll give you money, okay? Okay, so am I Santa Claus? - Mm hmm. But we'll still give you - 'Cause he's Mr. Beast. - [Man] Now let's help - Oh. - Earlier, we did the food bank. Now we're doing a homeless - [Man] Oh. - Oh, no, no. (laughs) - Chandler. I did all that work for nothing. How we gonna help people if worth of toilet paper? (upbeat music) This is actually our third time It's something I've been And I'll keep you guys updated but in 2020, I definitely of my own. So all that stuff we brought last time, how many people did it help? - Over 600 people just this year. You came last year, so we used off all your - So over 600 families - Exactly. We dropped off blankets, we dropped off wool socks, a lot of toothbrushes, We got a lot, they should be good. We flew across America with Check. We gave a food bank thousands of meals. Check. We gave the shelter supplies Check. We paid off people's tuition. Check. Roll the checklist up, there There we go, let's do this. So you probably think Wrong, we're going to Best So Chris, how many - Eight more, just kidding, No, just one more then. - That's the last one? - Yeah, this is the last one. - Okay, that's fine. - Okay, well this is the last. That's perfect. - They ran out of PlayStations. So our tower requires PlayStation VR. Sir, are these laptops? - They are. - Can I have 'em all? - Sure, why not? - Okay, thank you. And now we're gonna celebrate the holidays by just giving PlayStations Hey, you guys want some PlayStations? - PlayStations? - Yeah. You want a PlayStation? - I would love a PlayStation. - There you go, sir. (laughs) - PlayStation. - There you go. - Thank you sir. is that everyone in the vicinity? Let's continue to our next destination. - Thank you guys. - Yeah, appreciate it. - Christmas. - So we're here at Walmart a few days before Christmas and we we bought. We're just gonna give Do any of you want something for free? - [Man] We only have a set - Just form a line. (dramatic music) - [Woman] Thank you, thank you. - We're all out. - Shout out to Mr. Beast, thank you. - Shout out to Mr. Beast. - [Man] After giving away stuff all week, we were actually pretty hungry. So we stopped at a local donut shop and ended up taking it over. Going to man the drive through, we're here to give things away. It's gonna be a minute, so here's some Nintendo Switches. Here you go. - Oh my God, Mr. Beast. - Oh, you don't have to pay for it. Just give us one minute. - Are you sure? - Yeah. Paying for donuts when I'm here, why? They were actually ready. - Oh , can you sign the box? - Are you gonna frame this box of donuts? - We're never going to eat 'em. - Yeah, here you go. Have a good day. - Thank you, Merry Christmas. - Ah, that was satisfying. Hey, did you order a dozen donuts? - Yes. - You don't have to pay for it. You want a laptop? - Sure. - Here you go. Do you want a laptop as well? - [Woman] Sure. - Do you have a friend Sure. - Thank you. - Happy Holidays. - Thank you, Happy Holidays. No problem, here's your donuts. You don't have to worry - Okay. - And then here's a free - Okay, thank you. - Did you order some donuts? We're giving them to - Oh. - Thank you. - [Man] It's their birthday apparently. - Oh, is it your birthday? Here's a laptop to Enjoy your donuts. - Do I pay for the donuts? - Oh no, don't worry - [Woman] Merry Christmas. - You too. Since you guys were so nice, we wanna give all the just for fun. - Wow. That's amazing. - Here's $500. (laughs) - Not to bother you, here's $500. - Oh. (laughs) - Here's $500. Thanks for letting us - Thank you. - No problem. Here's $500. - Thank you. Hey, here's some money I feel like I own this place and I don't. So I think we made an Can you just pay for everyone's donuts? - Hey, Merry Christmas, y'all, thank you. - [Man] You know what? I've been giving away to everyone else, I might as well help my squad. So this is our last stop for the day. You might remember, this is the store I literally bought But it's super late, and no one's here and we need content. I opened a stopwatch. You have until it says five minutes and I'll pay for your groceries, go. - Oh. - I don't have a place to stay, but okay. - [Man] Chandler, it is - I like cat litter. - I have so many cats. I have four cats. - You want this? - Yeah. - Hey muffin, hey. - Why did you get so many muffins? - Two words, fudge bars. - Wow. - Oh. - This is Ryan's weakness, he loves cats. - You need to be choosy - They do matter. Also a big info right But the thing is, how do you get a cat? Cat food, exactly. - Here's an entire trout. - [Man] 30 seconds left. - Oh God. - Let's go. - You good? - Boom, I'm in. - All right And the award to these too. (goofy music) - Sea trout, I appreciate that. - [Man] You're welcome, that was me. - The ladies come over and and sea trout. - Baby, do you want some Kern's and fish? I think she does. - You look like you just - I did. I absolutely did. (sad music) - Hug the sadness out. - [Man] Is that everyone? Wow, you guys suck. And we did it. All the presents are gone. Yeah, look at the difference. It's all gone. Guys, you should feel good about yourself. We helped hundreds, maybe even like a thousand people today - Yay. - We just did a lot of good things today and we impacted a lot of with how this video went So subscribe and I'll see you next time. Mr. Beast 6,000 oh Mr. Beast 6,000 yeah you know his name He changed it once or twice (explosion noise)