A three story building is about 10 meters tall, six times bigger than you. In the opposite you get things like a cute squirrel about 27 big relative to you as you are to a squirrel. In fact, you are in the middle of everything journey together, to the small and the An A320 is 37 meters long. The Rufous Both of these fliers are 23 times and both fly intercontinental distances - the If the hummingbird were the same size as the jet, Dinoponera, the largest ant in the world, Their small colonies have around 100 individuals but no queens - instead they ruthlessly compete for status within the nest, which can reach 1.2 meters deep. towers of over 25 stories filled with offices The deadliest and most annoying insect in the while on the other end the Empire state building unimaginable how something this small creates We are getting to the borders Like coarse grains of sand about 3 You can feel their shape and roughness see them individually. We mix them into concrete like the 828 meter tall Burj Khalifa that is 500 people would be as small to you as grains Anything smaller or bigger A medium sized city like Lisbon yourself and permeated by a network On the other end, about 6000 times smaller your whole body. Actually you are in the middle network of a city like Lisbon. If you think of parallels. A small alley is as small to the city Your tiniest capillaries are to you, what the Going further, 100,000 times smaller than micrometers in diameter, a Neutrophil is half as micrometers. They are as small to you, as you the largest urban area in the world spanning filled with so much complexity, so many cell, in the human civilization Our steps are getting larger and larger now. Germany is around 875 km from North to South world. Rhizobia is a nitrogen-fixing bacteria up agricultural production is impossible. So we have and you are in the middle, both being roughly What about the whole Earth? It's about 7.7 million times larger than you. On as little as 0.3 micrometers across, living other bacteria. More than ten times Again you are in the center. Right that our civilization is a mere scratch on its never notice its presence even as it touches From here on out, your brain is breaking a bit. 4 times wider than Earth is Neptune, a largest planet though is Jupiter, 140,000 in terrible winds. You could drop Earth whole On the opposite scale we find 50 nanometers in diameter. Or one step down, up cells for its RNA payload - they are as small in the middle between gigantic planets and the Let that sink in - a tiny virus is up to 500 times larger than itself, with like you trying to kill a giant the size But the real boss of the Solar System is the Sun. larger than you, controlling all the planets A billion times smaller than you, clearly containing all the information making middle between the most important From here on on things just A billion is already too much but now The supermassive black hole at the is 14.5 billion times bigger than you. smaller than you. Yeah ok sure. But the done and it's not impossible to get The solar system is 22 trillion times larger wavelength of low energy neutrinos released a hundred trillion of them are passing through times smaller than you, basically never hitting through the solar system in a straight line Although things are beginning A single proton at the heart of the quadrillion times smaller than you. the hydrogen atoms would be On the other end, we meet something that vastness of space, we just have no reference the closest star to earth, Alpha Centauri, is from the tiny proton - but 24 quadrillion. And it goes on like this. A quintillion times smaller than you is the not actually like a tiny ball but kind of of quarks. Every moment, countless quarks pop into before doing furious battle and annihilating each because the harder you look for them simplifying so much it's like a lie anyway. it's wrong. What actually is a quark, what As you sit here, confused, let's look up inside a single atom of a single as you are compared to a sphere around 174 light And this is just a tiny speck of dust to one sextillion times larger we have particles a sextillion like the wavelength of high energy neutrinos We are getting to the end. The Observable Universe is 93 billion lightyears human lengths. But it's still finite. It's you were the size of our galaxy, the observable On the other end of that scale, we have a proton travelling so close to the pancake. As small compared to you as the We are at the border of things that we have of everything? The theoretical smallest a hundred million times smaller than even the only that our theories of the universe does the bigness of the universe match actually the universe could be considerably Let's go back and look at the dimensions again. There are so many big things and so The universe seems to be exactly the How do you try to get it exactly right, like buying a new mattress? You probably a few models. But what if you plan to spend the seller - and the decision doesn't is an independent and rigorous resource for GiveWells mission is to let donors make giving. That's why they have now spent over 15 only direct funding to a few of the found in global health and poverty judgment. You can find all of their research Over 100,000 donors have used GiveWell to donate more than one billion dollars. These over one hundred fifty thousand lives If you've never donated through GiveWell up to one hundred dollars before the funds last. Donations made through them are To claim your match, go to givewell.org, pick YouTube and enter KURZGESAGT at Thanks to all of you out there. We wish you a peaceful See you back at full throttle in January!