Ok so The Last Of Us is probably my favourite I think it's something that transcends the the best movies and tv shows. It's easy to see why HBO have developed it be discussing why the game's ending is something all the way back in 2013. It's a game that I've completed multiple times it's something I pick up day one just so I Though overall the gameplay is pretty straight Us is it's character development and story. Over the shoulder third person survival horror after the release of Resident Evil 4 and though when it comes to that, the characters go above The ending is no different and what really are spoken between the characters but you the surface. Performance capture in video games is something of decades and we've pretty much watched games people who can portay their deepest thoughts The Last Of Us capitalises on this massively the cinematic experience in video games. Games have always been criticised for their that above all else and the game excels because Whenever I've talked about the ending of the The Godfather of gaming. Now what I mean by that is that it is very The Godfather. In that we see Michael Corleone descend to killed for betraying the family. His girlfriend Kay goes to him and after Michaels lies about it in order to not destroy the However from the final shot you very much that she's willing to accept the lie but the We watch the door close on her and it's somethign the symbolism carried in it. The ending of The Last Of Us is in the same she very much has to force herself to believe to accept. We're very much left wondering if the person is actually the good guy we were led to believe final few moments over and over. We've spent hours and hours being Joel and We've grown a bond with the guy and seeing even if we don't totally condone it. It really speaks to how complex the game is shades of grey. Now in order to get to this point and all that got us there. This all happens because of the opening of In it we watch Joel and his Daugther Sarah After a rather laidback introductory scene, perspective of Sarah you watch the world descend No one knows what is going on and in this Tommy is forced off the road. Sarah's unable to properly walk and Joel has to start to swarm them. They come across a lone soldier and whilst any other situation like this The Last Of Ordered to kill the pair the soldier fires She dies in Joels arm in a moment that will and it's arguably the most impactful game Now from here we get a twenty year time jump Working as a smuggler with his girlfriend the game that Joel has had to do horrendous This drove a wedge between him and his brother the person that he used to be. Due to the loss that Joel faced that night doesn't have to face the emotional toil that Joels entire outlook is based around surviving steal from in order to do it. However there is still a symbol that ties that Sarah gave him on the night she died. Though it's busted up and broken he still of his daughter that remains. The cracks in it very much represent his own longs for a realtionship like the one he had Now this very much becomes the case in Ellie. Revealed to be immune to the Cordyseps infection find a cure and return to the old life that Joel and Tess are tasked with escorting her we watch as Joel slowly lowers his walls in Ellie represents the daughter that he lost life like what he had with Sarah. There's so many subtle moments in the game stares at his watch almost as if to remind There's also the fact that he called Sarah refers to Ellie as. - After Tess is killed we see Joel refusing to him it's something else that he won't have of his mind. However he very clearly becomes attached to to his brother Tommy. Now at his outpost we get a very important back to their homes in Austin Texas. The night that the outbreak happened they chance to grab any personal belongings. Joel hasn't returned because of how painful pretty much how he left it. Unless someones been through it and spammed the place. Guilty. Anyway here Tommy found a photograph of Joel it and he immediately hands it back. However come the end of the game we learn that she's carried it with her ever since. She gives it to Joel and he longingly looks - Now this is clearly a major change in him. Rather than refusing to even acknowledge it that part of his life back in. Now this moment is very important for both conversation that they have before they're The pair make their way underground and after where they've made their camp. Joel wakes up to discover that they're preparing the mutated strain from her which will finally There's just one thing, Ellie will die during they have to kill her. Joel doesn't get the chance to say goodbye guard. At this point he pulls a fast one and kills him so that he can go and save her. Now though this is completely damning humanity, Like him we've become attached to Ellie throughout protecting her the last thing that we want In addition to this we've seen the ugly side whether we're even worth saving if the cost characters that we meet. It's said that children are our future and around middle aged and elderly characters Sarah, Sam and Ellie are the only child characters completely kill the outlook that there's a Even if players were given a dialogue tree to do I still think that the majority of people The final part of the game follows him as Fireflies and what's probably the last brain But you understand all of this because you've her from being killed. You succeed as well and manage to make it way out. She very much represents the opposite side we get filled in we know that she also cared She was entrusted to her but Marlene is willing The needs of the many outweigh the needs of a dichotomy over what to do. Knowing that they won't stop coming for Ellie how low he is willing to sink to protect Ellie. It's very important to bear in mind that almost cowering over. This is very much the case in her final scene she lies on the ground begging for her life. But Joel can't have Ellie with a target on order to make sure Ellie is safe. Now this entire flashback is told to us with of a car still in her hospital gown. Joel peddals her a story about how there's fireflies have stopped looking for a cure. The story doesn't even really make sense especially Ellie is still too devastated to question it's all been for nothing. This is a moment that really stands out to Ellie ends up storming off because Joel offers She says that it can't be for nothing and Now when you think about it, the entire cure many hours pushing through has been completely staying at Tommys in the mid point of the However that's never really crossed my mind up in the characters. Even with the ending I still feel like it's Joel finally took a step back towards humanity that he was. Now they could easily end the game there and if that had been the case. We'd just had a major action scene, stopped into the sunset. But The Last Of Us adds an epilogue that makes everyone long after they put the controller We don't know how big of a time jump there's up but clearly some time has passed. Juxtaposing the dynanmics that we've had throughout, is now the reserved one. Eventually she stops him and brings up the Riley wasn't lucky enough to make it. This is something that is later explored in suffers from survivors guilt. Joel mirrors this as well and he says that This is clearly commenting on how he died for a second to signify the guilt that he whilst Sarah didn't. However he says that you find something to Had she died then we know that Joel would and that he'd be surviving with nothing to Now on top of this she's clearly been thinking flat out whether everything he said is true - Joel looks her dead in the eyes and swears Now I'm sure that a lot of you growing up truth and they'd make you look them directly genuine or not. This is normally seen as being a sign of honesty aware of this and adapt it into our lies. It's actually said by psychologists that if to be lying because it's practiced and we we purposely do it As we know, Joel is lying here and thus him he is. All that remains is Ellie's reaction which - I absolutely love the way this plays out and suspicion and confusion. She's clearly built up in her head that he's on top of the lie because he doesn't want Ellie knows that if he's lying then he was life and she's clearly conflicted because Now she has a couple of choices here. Either she can say he's lying and this will Or she can accept the lies and live in a world guilt or truth that someone murdered people It's a tough thing to deal with and she simply It's not really an acceptance or denial of at face value because the truth of it is far Now though I'm spouting off things that are possible to take your own interpretation of The game really wants the player to make up own reading on this moment. Personally I do see Ellie as being someone Joel acts but she's willing to bury it because Joel has been someone that has done horrendous Ellie willing to accept a lie in order to So much is given to us in this moment and Naughty Dog can release a remake of the game because they don't need to change anything. The story is what carries this and this final people keep going back to it. It's why I think the game is something that and no doubt the show will also be something to re-examine this final scene. Though I really enjoy part 2 they could have it's why the ending is perfect. Now I'd love to hear your thoughts on it so Comment below and let me know your thoughts We're running a competition right now and to 3 Subscribers on The 15th Of January. All you have to do to be in with a chance subscribe with notifications on and drop a We pick the comments at random at the end are on screen right now so message me @heavySpoilers If you want something else to watch then make scene in Spider-Man Homecoming. We break down the entire thing so it's definitely With that out the way thank you for sitting see you next time. Take care, Peace