Rachid: Hi, there, and I'm Welcome to season 2 I'm your host, Rachid Finch, and I'm who work on Google's products. We had amazing conversations and we have a fantastic lineup Now, in case you stumbled upon our this is a great time to do it. So hit Subscribe, Follow, or whatever it's so you won't miss any episode Now, if there's anything it's that 2023 is shaping up to be a year in which AI is a big talking point. For us at Google, of course, We've been an AI-first company for years, and we've been working on AI for decades. And if there's one area where AI is having an incredible impact on millions then it's in photography. It's often called and it's basically the art of AI or making your pictures And that's what we're two features made possible after taking a photo, sometimes even many decades later. So, from the Google Photos team, [upbeat music] Zach, welcome to the Happy to have you today. Please tell us more about your role Zachary: Yeah, thank you So I'm a Senior Product leading our editing and computational And I started at Google we call that APMs... Zachary: Where I had what product management was, I then joined Google's starting off on Google Assistant, before where I've had the chance of the product over the years, including Rachid: Now, people who frequently know that I like to where we have personal mission statements. Every Googler has one. Yours is, help you bring which I guess is pretty self-explanatory, Zachary: Yeah, so we all take such as sharing a really But many times, myself and this gap between the photo and the photo and video And it could be that isn't quite how you Maybe it's very blurry. Or perhaps you want to do something before actually sharing And so my mission is to help you bring out the full potential such that you can achieve what it is that you're trying to actually achieve Rachid: Right, so if I took and I made it even better I have you to thank you for. You have me and a lot of other Rachid: Today's guest works on one Google Photos. Zach Senzer is a Senior Product Manager and has his focus on the editing features. It's not only the basic like fixing exposure and colors. But as you'll hear shortly, he works Zach is happy to admit that he which gives him an edge most people will appreciate. Zach also has a surprise or two I hope you enjoy our conversation. Now today we're talking about Photo Unblur and Magic Eraser. But before we get into the could you perhaps set the scene for and what actually Zachary: So a lot were all about these with bigger and better lenses. Zachary: But computational photography more than these physical optical machines. Zachary: An AI camera relies to give people the ability to snap images that previously only high-end cameras and, for example, technology that can snap and then use this AI software to align with great lighting and free And this technology is actually what in the camera, where photos shot end up looking really which is a result that previously this professional camera, a tripod, Rachid: Yeah, I remember like, taken with Night Sight, which was, Now, what about those imperfect shots for people that perhaps don't have a Pixel Zachary: That's a great question, for us on the Google Photos team. People store their most precious and for many of these moments, to capture them or a very high-end camera, to actually configure even if they had one of And computational photography allow us to improve these whether it be a photo that you or a photo that you took decades ago. And this is actually the theme of our most recent Fixed on Pixel which shows how features use AI to fix these imperfect shots. Rachid: Amy Schumer had a lot of exes what I remember from it. So we'll talk about Magic Eraser but let's get to Photo Unblur first. People who aren't could you quickly describe what it is Zachary: Sure. Photo Unblur uses machine learning as the name suggests. It works on photos that were, or much older photos that helping you relive the moment And if you come across a blurry photo in the app will then suggest And once you tap Unblur, Google Photos and then shows an edited version that ends And there's also a slider so that you can go in and adjust before you ultimately save Rachid: Now, I think about how this actually works but could you give us on what happens when you Zachary: Photo Unblur uses that run on a user's Pixel device, and it uses it to detect And I think a big question is, how do we actually know what that Rachid: Exactly, yes. Zachary: And these were trained using these with these unwanted so, for example, images that have And we compare that to another data set, which has a set of images that don't have And the source of blur in an image can Maybe it's an imperfect lens, Maybe the object you're trying to capture or the camera itself is shaking, or it could be a combination And the Photo Unblur feature can where there's significant and mild out-of-focus blur. But we find that the best results is when the blur is due to moderate and slightly blurry images And in the event that maybe but there's some visual noise or potentially it has Unblur will then enhance it and remove without actually altering the underlying And overall, to basically summarize, helps you improve the quality and also make specific improvements Rachid: I guess as a product manager, to experience a feature like this, well, is it compelling enough? What do you remember and perhaps seeing it for the first time Do you remember? Zachary: Yeah, some of the first things on this technology was scrolling within Google Photos, photos of me back when the cameras were not the A lot of them suffered from and I was amazed how I was and transform them into images that looked like they The sort of transformation of was a pretty magical experience Rachid: Definitely, and I do have it's just incredible And I guess the same People might be slightly because that feature launched so it's been there slightly longer. Again, could you quickly explain, Zachary: Magic Eraser can basically whether it be small people in the And as was the case you can get a suggestion when you open a photo that the app detected might have things Or if we don't detect that, you can then and use it on any image that you have. And when you enter Magic Eraser, it'll analyze the image. And in the case of Magic Eraser, it'll figure out things And then you can tap Erase All or let's say we didn't suggest You can also circle or brush And the best part, in my opinion, is and Magic Eraser will actually figure out And in the event that you don't want let's say it's a really but you want it to blend in a you can then use the camouflage mode to change the color of these And in just a few taps, will blend in really harmoniously Rachid: Now, if I think back to what you basically teach a computer or a phone, you know, this is what and this is the same great picture, And perhaps at some point, the AI But with Magic Eraser, it seems because now the Eraser needs like, behind a person in the picture. How would you teach Zachary: Yeah, so I'd say of Magic Eraser when it comes to AI. First is figuring out And then once we know what would the image actually look like And Magic Eraser uses that run on device that detect Again, let's say it's small people Rachid: Mm-hmm. And these models were trained what the likely subjects of a photo are and then who or what might be in the And again, in the event that you that's maybe not suggested to you, you can do these very coarse gestures And we could then predict what you meant, refine the selection to only and then erase it from the image. And to your key question about what should the distraction that's there... Zachary: Magic Eraser will then analyze and based on learning from the training and predict what the pixels if the distraction wasn't actually there. Rachid: Again, you were probably one Do you have--because I know who use the feature, it's been around for any particular examples you've seen, maybe in testing where you were like, Zachary: Yeah, the focus of the feature a lot of removing background distractions. But we've definitely seen people use So the Super Bowl ad shows Amy Schumer removing exes And then on social media, I've also seen a lot of creative ways whether it be to do things or reduce the number It makes you wish were actually that easy in real life. Rachid: Oh, definitely, yes. I would like a real-life Magic Eraser, that'd be wonderful Now, I think this is one you know, Photo Unblur, Magic Eraser. But, you know, I think it's such a compelling example of where AI touches people's lives Where do you think we're going next Zachary: Overall, I'm really excited to democratize these traditionally to help people enhance their content And AI has the power to simplify these and make it so that you don't need to be to make your photos and videos And a lot of what we've talked about but I'm personally really looking We find that people way more with videos than ever before. And getting the perfect video than it is for photos. You have many different tracks many different aspects And there's so much potential to truly revolutionize Rachid: Yeah, I guess you will be busy because that seems like-- you know, most videos, so it must be at least 30 times harder Zachary: Definitely harder, but Rachid: Oh, that's wonderful. Hey, you mentioned, you know, I just was wondering, Because I hear that a lot in tech circles, but I'm not sure if most people know Zachary: Definitely. So a lot of times or this complex functionality and whether it be removing something or taking a blurry image was previously only accessible either very high-end devices, or just general ability and expertise to know how to do And personally, or someone who has all the expertise to make these really complex edits. And so, for everyday people like me, how I can get those really, that I see out there in the public. So, when I talk about democratization of these different sorts to me, it means making it so that myself can go in and get those really awesome without that expertise required. Rachid: It sounds-- it's probably a superpower to actually but, you know, basically be Zachary: It definitely helps me empathize who are ultimately going to be using this. And it also, again, breeds when I get to try these features given that I don't necessarily have of using this really fancy software or have that domain expertise these different editing operations. Rachid: Now, Zach, you know, regular know that we close each episode [jazzy music] What is the top tip Zachary: To date, most of our newest have only been available to those who which have this Google Tensor chip that helps us run on the user's device, And for the launch of Magic Eraser we worked really closely to create machine-learning models And since then, to optimize those models on other devices. And we've recently announced that are now available to people with older and to Google One members Rachid: Right. Zachary: And I'm really will be able to use that powers Magic Eraser and so would really love and can't wait to see all the awesome Rachid: That's a great tip. So, for people listening, and get some amazing benefits Zach, thank you so much for talking to us. Thanks for sharing the tips, Zachary: Rachid: So there you have it-- now available to more people than ever So make sure to check out Google One, and don't forget it comes from extra storage in Google Drive to a VPN to protect your internet traffic. Thanks again to Zach for coming And I'm already looking forward which is about spatial audio. That's when sound from movie seems including behind you, and all you need is a pair of Pixel Buds. So more about that next time. Thanks again for listening. [upbeat music]