Shakespeare. The most influential cultural But did he really do [mysterious whisper] No. Let's find out in another RobWords How now! What cheer? Y'alright? So here are the facts. William Shakespeare - who The precise number varies based on whether and whether you include plays One of which is, incidentally, the Did you know there was a Love's Labours Won? But no trace of it remains. Spoooooky. Unless of course it was just the original title So pinning down the precise I like to call him Shakey, by the way - is a little bit fraught, even before you entertain which we won't entertain... for now. So let's say 40-ish plays. Zounds, not bad - and a few other poems. Point is: he was prolific. And in his works, William Shakespeare words - some calculations put And of those 20 to 30-thousand words, 17-hundred are thought to have been That's a huge number. It is about ten times as many words as I've used in But you know that number's And here. And here and here and here. So it must be true then, right? We'll see. And just look at all the examples Such variation from the charmingly Look: bedroom. He invented "bedroom"! Here it is actually, the first known written Lysander is trying to snuggle scene as they find a spot to sleep in the woods. She firstly tells him to back off: "Lie Then Lysander goes on to say "Then For lying so, Hermia, I do not lie." And just like that, Shakespeare's combining two existing little Wow. Except, hold on. What is a bedroom? It's a room with a bed in it, But when Lysander says bedroom here, he's not He's talking about "room" in That is not how we use the So can we really therefore say that this is At around the same time, the word does emerge in the sense that we understand it Check this out from a different writer in 1600. [In plummy voice] "On the other side of the I don't know why I put that voice on, sorry. And this example rather suggests the word was in reasonably wide usage already this quote is from a translation of a French you don't invent words as you go along, you That is kind of the point. By 1600, people were probably alternative to the earlier "bed-chamber&quot;. So, therefore, did Shakespeare invent our I don't think he did. There are other words that are were almost certainly in use "Kissing" is a good example of one. Our pal Willy appears to have been the He used it a few times, like here and here. But the verb "to kiss" goes way, way back Smoochy English-speakers have been kissing So it seems very unlikely that in the centuries running up to Shakespeare's that the word "kissing" Shakey gets credit for being but we surely can't give him credit And this is the case for some of Ah, now there is a word he appears Although only in the sense And actually that's another nuance to bear in For many examples, Shakespeare he just came up with a new way to use it. Take for example... err... gossip. That's a good one. Gossip is another really old word. It The god is the same as at the and the sib is the same as at A godsib was a friend or relation invited to be It also developed to mean a woman who and by the mid-1500s it had morphed further to mean a woman who engaged such as one might among one's close friends. Here it is being used in 1580. But Shakespeare is perhaps the first when in The Comedy of Errors "Go to a gossips' feast and go with me; "With all my heart, I'll gossip at this feast." You can even see the Bard's He's taking the noun "gossips" and through So he definitely appears to Something creative and clever. But has he invented the word "gossip"? This word that existed in Old English? Nehhh. Let's poke a few more holes in some This site says he invented "submerge". Oh yeah? Well what's this word doing here then, This is printing pioneer and Caxton using it to mean exactly what it does now. It doesn't appear to have been in wide so I guess you could argue Shakespeare Meanwhile, other writers are So there's Shakespeare being essentially gazumped But there are other occasions where words just ahead of Shakespeare. He's sometimes credited with inventing putting his own twist on the But here's Christopher Marlowe using it around a decade before King Lear is "Thine eyes whose radiance burnes out mine." Marlowe is of course one of to claim actually wrote Shakespeare's works. Another is Francis Bacon, and here he is being credited by the Oxford English - or a form of it - slightly before Shakespeare apparently "invents" the word The Bard is also sometimes credited with first borrowing this word from Dutch But when Hamlet says, "Ile rant as well as thou" he appears to just be using a being used by other writers So have I made my point? It seems a lot of the weren't invented by him at all. Look at this A-to-Z list By my reckoning only around half And the smart folk at Merriam-Webster over in the US have also gone out of Shakespeare is wrongly getting the credit So let's go back to this number again. Given everything I've just told you, does it still 17-hundred? Do you wanna know what I think? I think... Yes. Yes, he probably still did. I'll explain why in a sec. But first, did you like the way that text appeared I made it do that using a special learned using this video's sponsor, Skillshare. Skillshare is the world's largest with thousands of classes led by industry - the food of love - and also things like marketing It has many of the tools you'll hobbies and side-hustles to the next level. So I edit these videos myself and I'm always looking for ways to make the - to gild my video's lilly, as and Skillshare has classes that But I've also just started watching a series by author Myla Goldberg about how I'm expecting to hit Shakespearean Maybe not. If you want to tap into all of this because the first 500 people description of this video will receive So get on. Get thee to Skillshare today. Okay, back to this number: 17-hundred. 17-hundred is actually a conservative estimate Past numbers have been much, much larger. This is from a book published in 1906. who has managed to get a hold of some early - at the time called the New English Dictionary - And in there, there are details of the Bayley explains how he counted up all the first citations in two 143-page sections each accounting for what he reckoned He then used that information to project how many of the words in the finished - and therefore the English lexicon as a whole - would have been first used by various writers. The numbers are bonkers, as you can see. But the most bonkers is Bayley's He says "Calculating upon this basis for enriching our English tongue 9,450 newly coined or newly used words." Nine thousand, four hundred and fifty. That is, what? Five times the However, over the century since then, the number of Shakespeare first citations as more, earlier quotations have been found. So how many is it now, you might ask? Well... I don't know. Sorry. But maybe we could just try something. Something highly un-scientific, but no less Nowadays, if you pay your subscription, you can search through the Oxford English So let's see if we can do that to get some idea of how many words the folk at Oxford On paper, at least. What we can do is look for words first used so the late 1580s and up to his death in 1616. Let's assume he didn't coin And then let's select "quotation And this should in theory give us and for which the OED has used a quotation from Is the number we get going to be It's three thousand. Three thousand. Now some of these will not have Shakespeare We couldn't specify that in the search, This could take a while. Result Okay, I'll come clean with you. I a load of these so that you don't have And you know what? For the Shakespeare really is given as or use a specific sense of that word. He's the first person quoted using "should" He's the first to call clothes you and he's the first to describe something He's also the first to use denote and devote and call the dawn the dawn He apparently coins the word successful And then he goes one further and building on his own previous invention. His writings include the who employs another person as an "employer". Before then the word's only applied And he introduces the word hostile to the English The point is, the majority of to have genuinely been first Which leads me to believe which I think was first quoted and his talented actor son Ben in their book isn't wide of the mark at all. It You see, Shakespeare was writing at a time when English was being enriched with new words New experiences for English speakers in communication and culture, for example, Plus the renaissance saw lots like Latin and Greek flooding into English. Not without some resistance, however. And there's also a general playfulness in the that creates the perfect conditions For quirkily turning verb into nouns - like - like Shakey did with "championing" - and nouns into adjectives like when he was But also borrowing words from other languages, Shakespeare is writing just English - to essentially freeze As a result, Shakespeare's age is Linguists and historians reckon that the - a period encompassing Shakespeare's lifetime - was upwards of 10 thousand. Shakespeare is the most quoted writer Can you guess what the most quoted text is? Yeah, it's the Bible. Anyway one of the big things is that not only has he given us a lot of words, but he has given us a huge number of phrases too. Something I suppose you can also say of the Bible. To this day, we are quoting Shakespeare all Every time we "break the ice", "come full He gave us "foul play", "as luck would have it" and "dead as a doornail", "for goodness sake". A "wild goose chase" "with bated breath" "for forever and a day" is not but there's "neither rhyme nor Oh and knock knock, who's there? Another quote from the Bard. There are "countless", "varied" examples. Oh Sometimes he manages to squeeze two "Though I am native here and to the manner born, it is a custom more honor'd in That's Hamlet. So again, we come back to the overall point that Shakespeare did influence the Definitely more than anyone else. And English's position as the most - planet Earth that is, not the theatre - means that Shakespeare is therefore probably the most influential linguistic However, let's address the elephant in the room. That's not one of Shakespeare's by the way. Can one man really have been this prolific? Especially the son of a farmer's a Warwickshire backwater who Well you're probably aware that he couldn't have. So, let's talk about that but only briefly because these would have had to face down in his own lifetime. The idea that the playwright from - the so called anti-Stratfordian theory - doesn't take any firm shape until the mid-1800s. To my eyes, the main argument That's why the contemporary writers Shakespeare's works went to Oxford or Cambridge, Whereas poor old William had to settle But very few scholars of the Bard nowadays that William Shakespeare There's just too much evidence to the contrary. Shakespeare was massively famous in his own day Contemporary writers make mention to have accepted that he wrote the And there is a consistency in you don't get across 40-odd plays if Claims that Shakespeare wasn't - as Othello might have put it - "false as hell". But I'll leave you with one fact and that the doubters do Did you know that not a single example of a Not one. We are largely reliant on a folio of his friends - John Heminges and who sourced the texts from old prompt books, Ultimately, they had complete power over what went into and although they clearly loved the guy - both men named their sons William - can we be certain that every quirky new Who knows. It is not "a foregone conclusion" In the meantime, I recommend or check out my podcast Words Unravelled, There are hours of wordy nerdy I'll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. And until next time... Good riddance. That's Shakespeare.