[Music] Hello, I'm Jamila Musayeva, an international book &quot;Etiquette: The Least You Need to Know.&quot; about what is the least that you need to know let's address two questions. Number one, basically your behavior around the table, so what kind of conversation you hold all make a people often ask me is why do we even need table restaurants are casual dining places and we often you need to have good table manners for your own and you'll put others at the table at ease with whatever the degree of formality the dinner Let's talk about seating arrangements. Where invited by a host or you say, your date? Then, seat and take your seat afterwards. If you're to the seat that's intended for your guests, the rule of thumb is that the guests always get the main area or the entrance, so he or she will then one guest will be your guest of honor, and Now that we have seated down, we need to don't slouch. Don't sit like this. Roll your sit straight. Number two, don't press your back to kitten behind your back, so you are not pressing back of the chair and your own back. Number three, However, it is acceptable to place your elbows between the meal to have a conversation. Number you're supposed to leave your hands on your lap dining etiquette, you're supposed to always rest visible to your dining partners at all times. you might be holding some weapon in your hand The question that I get asked a lot is what should that whatever does not belong to the dining the table. That applies to your phone and your down and put it in your pocket or your bag. If little chair designed for that bag, or you can ask can hang your bag from there. Alternatively, you It is acceptable to place your bag behind your small bag that's like a clutch, you can place it you do, do not place your bag on a ground it is seen as disrespectful to place a don't respect the money that you're holding in Let's now look at our dining table. Where setting. I have a napkin, a plate, soup course fork and knife, a dessert fork, dessert box should be much smaller than and I'll be using it next. I also have a bread have a butter knife. The interesting part about it has a dull blade and is used to scoop the Next, I have my glasses. So, in order I'm going to make the letters B and D that's where my bread plate and butter knife glasses are. In order not to confuse it with Now that you are seated down, you unfold the indicate it to your guests. You can do it in like this, or the other way around when you have actually prefer this way because I can basically so from the outside, my napkin looks perfectly you would use it to gently wipe your fingers and are going to the bathroom and you will be back, that you will be coming back. If you are leaving then you would place the napkin on the left no need to shape it back to its original shape, to drop your napkin, you can pick it up if you're waiter that you want a new one. The glasses also There's no need to worry about it because the glass. But it's good to know what is for what. the taller glasses should be behind the shorter the order of their height from the tallest can see that I have a glass for water, one So let's start with a water goblet. It usually and you hold the water goblet by the bottom recognizable glass. It's a champagne glass. the bubbles in the champagne stay intact make sure that you hold this glass by touching the bowl and are not warming This is a white wine glass. Unlike the red wine is longer and thinner. The white wine glass is broader taste notes, and they need more area to bottom of the bowl. So imagine this: a red wine wine glass, you have to hold it by the stem so you So let's get started with our meal. Before he or she starts to eat, then it's time to enjoy then you would wait for everyone to be served The bread plate is used to enjoy a piece of butter and spread it on their bread piece, and The first meal that I'm going to be enjoying dip it in the center of the bowl, take it to and then bring the spoon to my mouth in any on my lap. For my second course, I'm a salad knife. I will show you two which I'm going to currently show you. So you cut you would place your knife and switch your The other way is the European or Continental and knife and in the same way and use it to going to happen? I'm going to leave the knife in course, which is chicken breast with Parmesan. main course knife to cut the chicken breast one you place your fork and knife in a position 12 to like the French dining etiquette does usually, or 4:00 o'clock just like this, with a fork facing Once you've finished your main course, is a perfect time to excuse yourself from to. Here I have a dessert fork and a dessert effective sites. I'm going to be using a fork I'm going to hold the dessert with a fork and push any remaining particles that I want on Once you're done eating your dinner, it's expecting the bill. You can do so by having hands at your elbow. Once you have paid the bill, fold it not too neatly, and place it on the left youshould indicate to your guests that you should watch the host do so and leave. On a final note, if this was a dinner you were message to the host the next day. If you you might also consider sending flowers with guarantee you a beautiful handwritten long way. Thank you so much for watching it as much as I enjoyed filming this you