in 1894, a high school teacher suggested should leave, because he was unhappy. came back. Later, he tried to apply to a entrance exam. Later in his life, when he professor, no university would hire him. clerk at a patent office. History does or the names of the universities that forget that teenager, because he went on changed the way we view reality itself. the century. Today his name is synonymous Albert Einstein. Yet this entire simple thought experiment, conjured up in before he even graduated from high experiment? And how did it lead to physics since Isaac Newton? That's coming Einstein's theory of special relativity how revolutionary it was for its time, conventional understanding of physics teenage years. First, in 1801 Thomas Young experiment that showed that light So the predominant theory about light at problem is that a wave, it was thought, Something has to be there to make the need water to create a wave. But light obvious because you can see starlight. containing nothing. And it could be travel in a vacuum. So scientists thought travel through the vacuum was if there space and the entire cosmos. They called And this theory of ether was the the 19th century. later in that same name of Albert Michelson and Edward existence of the ether. The background static, but because the earth was moving speed of particles (or waves), if the wave the earth. The speed of the wave should of the earth. This would be similar to with the flow of the current, than if it this hypothesis, Mickelson and Morley light, and bounced it off mirrors so that finally hit the same target. The idea was distance along different paths through speeds. And therefore, when they hit the would be slightly out of phase with each which would create an interference astonishing. They showed that there was the two measurements. No matter which moving at precisely the same speed. This at least for light. No one could make alternate theory to explain it. It was of all time.&quot; This is where Albert had been around even before Albert completely different way. The term had Isaac Newton had demonstrated relativity. moving train, and someone's stationary in relative to that observer, will be the walking speed. This makes logical sense. classical interpretation of relativity Einstein, in 1873, it had been recently light was an electromagnetic wave. And he approximately 186,000 miles per second. thought experiment as a sixteen-year-old. chasing a beam of light while traveling he see? If young Albert could catch up to observe such a beam of light as an though spatially oscillating.&quot; In other see a stationary wave of light. Yet, that Einstein knew that such stationary electromagnetism developed by James were quite strict. Any ripples in the the speed of light, and cannot stand addition, Einstein reasoned that if accelerating train at close to the that person to know how fast he was been the classical view physics be different for a person someone standing still? This seemed two postulates, and tried to figure out two postulates were true. Postulate one same for all inertial reference frames. pioneered by Galileo. Postulate two was constant for all inertial reference much common sense, and had been assumed postulate, however, was the revolution. It moving at a velocity &quot;C&quot; in a vacuum. You velocity to be 186,000 miles per second. This meant that young Einstein would never see the could never catch the light beam. This to reconcile Maxwell's equations with solution seemed to have a fatal flaw. And with another thought experiment. Imagine embankment just as the train roars by, in 2000 miles per second. Someone standing on the speed to be the standard 186,000 miles would see it moving past at only 184,000 miles per second. If the speed of light was not to somehow look different inside the first postulate, that the laws of physics reference, would be violated. This spinning his wheels for almost a year. walking to work with his best friend since his early student days. The two men And suddenly Einstein saw the solution. met up the next morning, Einstein told this problem.&quot; The solution to his thought on the train, must experience time embankment. Observers in relative motion the moment of the revolution. It of classical physics pioneered by and absolute in the universe. and varies in different frames of reference, that the ether was theorized was no longer needed. This one for different frames of reference, also relativity; that fast moving objects appear to have increased mass. And energy - this is the most famous equation means, that mass and energy are how did Einstein come up with his most two postulates? The math is rather conceptually. There was a time when mass whatever mass you put in, must be the mass is interpreted as conservation of special relativity. Since different energy of a system was, the mass and not just the mass on its own. A train has a lot more energy than a train at accelerating train, may not know that the is moving from the point of view of one observer. One observer would see and the other observer would measure a laws of physics, namely &quot;conservation of be consistent in the two reference respect to each other, there has to be an not just a body in motion. And that is in the equation is the mass at rest. Some people point out that much of the already been done by the time Einstein dilation and simultaneity for moving place. And the math had already been Poincare. plagiarist. There's no doubt that the shoulders of other great scientists. And credit than others who did prior work. At the accolades because he took the bits others, and put them all together into a rejected the idea of the ether not done, and boldly proclaimed a new reality. And the idea of mass and energy is solely Einstein. Scientists would had done and Poincare had never as in life, history tends to favor the Arvin Ash here. If you like our videos then consider subscribing. And ring the bell, so that you can be informed when we upload more fascinating videos. We make 1 to 2 videos a week. We'll see you in the next video