[music plays] [Peter] Good morning, guys. -[man] Is that Peter, is it? -I watch your videos. -I'll get out of your way, sorry. -How are you liking San Francisco? -Amazing? Awesome. So, beautiful place. All right guys, so today's video A place that's been in the media nonstop So today's video is about getting as we can in one day. I could be a creator that just shows or just show the beauty of Presidio Park but there are many stories and there's an overall feel. Is the city doing better? So let's get down there, get some interesting perspectives, and get a better understanding of Let's do this. [jazz music plays] [Peter] Here we are, Pacific Heights. One of the nicer neighborhoods These houses are phenomenal. Check these out. I looked on Zillow. You see numbers This is the big money here. All the way down to the bay. So you'll see the streets are very clean, manicured, taken care of. So I have a deep history First started coming here Lived here. The last stint was back in 2020 and that was Winter of 2020, 2021, And so my wife and I left the city. A lot had to do with just break-ins, street takeovers. They'd take over an intersection Not up here in this neighborhood There'd be someone on Fentanyl, a tent there'd be an RV parked leaking and just a bad overall environment. So from my understanding, that has been Now we're four years later. Now these neighborhoods [man] This area here, -You have no problems here? Most of the times we're in the city, we come into town, but we don't have any issues in here. I've been coming to the city -30 years? I love the city, it's a blessing. -That's great. It's my favorite team, Lot of work. -You guys have plenty of work here? Yeah, this city's a blessing [Peter] Such a San Francisco shot. Here we have the driverless car. Coming to you in just a matter of time. I mean you can just walk for hours taking in the beauty. We're seven by seven miles here You live in this neighborhood you go down to the water there. You can bike along the bay, go to Presidio Park. You can live quite a beautiful life -[Peter] You got your hands full. Can I ask you one question? -Sure. How is the city right now It's coming back... coming back. It's the world that we're in. If you sue the cops, If you want to treat the cops more like The city has 500 less police officers You make it harder to do it, It's all good. All good. These have all been clients for 30 years. -Okay. It turns over and all different... I've never seen this many dogs They regulate it. If you have this many on the sidewalk, -Anyway have a good day. [to dogs] Puppies, pup. -He was saying back in the day this was and it's hard to keep employees now. Just because of the costs. Like you have to pay so much to be able to keep them in the city that he can't make so he's just doing it himself now. [jazz music plays] [Peter] This is great, guys. A couple years ago as far as people walking out and about, people going to work. And this is really good to see. Okay, first impression, guys, Just what I'm feeling and what I'm seeing. This is fantastic. I used to park my motorcycle here There are less cars down here. but this is a big improvement I gotta say. -How you doing, sir? -The city looks great. You guys bringing it back, huh? Well trying to keep it clean People want to come shopping they don't want to see I was here a couple years ago, -You're doing a good job. This is great to see, the Big Bus is full. Union Square, for those that don't know, During the pandemic You can see some of We'll walk around some of these streets. I remember what was open The famous Westin St. Francis. Good to see that's not closed. I see much more of a police presence. We got this guy giving it. [busker singing soul music] [Peter] So I just read &quot;S.F. down 45,000 jobs from 2019 level.&quot; A lot of these are tourism jobs. Services jobs, a lot of tech jobs, and you can see here versus the US, and San Francisco. So the city got really hit hard with people leaving town, It's such a big part of the economy. There's a point I'd like to make. Sometimes people say coastal elites, okay? Now that exists for sure. People on the coasts doing really well and sometimes talking for the country when they don't know I do want to poke a hole Most people out here are not elites, They're going to their job or could be singing on the streets or working in construction and they're just getting by, raising their families, So it's easy to put that label of but most of the city Yes, tons of money here. That exists [Peter] Okay, so explain that What do you mean? -The drugs? -How is it right now would you say? End of October, 2024, -But I see less homeless on the streets. -What year did you move here? -What do you think about America? A lot of times foreigners better than citizens that You have something to compare against. [people chattering] [Peter] Didn't expect this here. -You think he's gonna win? -You getting much love out here? San Francisco's Getting lots of support from locals, but the locals are living in fear Uh, that they'll get attacked violently. -They're gonna get Just simply expressing their views or expressing what they see just in order to be honest and so broken windows in your car, or physically attacked personally. -Okay, what about you? Do you have Yeah, the first week was intense and you hold people accountable it's just momentum has come This is a free country. Especially in San Francisco. -San Francisco was always the place and that's accepted. -Used to be. It got more conformist. Yeah, If you look around, All of this is empty. -What do you mean they're empty? Because no one wants to do business here. They're trying to get no more Christmas trees. It's just-- [man on megaphone] [man] Yeah, thank you! [laughs] And so... It used to be so colorful, It was almost like to get here to across the street and it was just a different situation. People had integrity and this is... Right now what you're seeing today, but they cleaned this all up. -This is cleaned for visitors. For Fleet Week. Four weeks, five weeks ago, dude, all kinds of stuff all over the place. -Are you from here? -Born and raised? -Did you love growing up here? Dude, that's what I mean. It's amazing. Right here is an international spot. So you have the best of Bro, it was amazing It boosts the economy We want you to make a pledge to say, &quot;Hey, I want to do what's right with everyone that I'm joining, and I pledge to be honorable.&quot; And that's all it is is just like, &quot;Hey man, you promise to and if you do If you're not then, dude, I appreciate it, thank you. Thank you for voting. [woman] Of course, -Are you from San Francisco? -Okay, see you guys. Take care. [woman] You too, thank you. Okay, before those watching say you're pushing a candidate or this is It's what I run into. If there's a Kamala stand [man shouting] I'm gonna talk to that person of what's going on and this is a way and where culture is at, and if you don't like what you see [Peter] How you doing, sir? How's security these days? Pretty good. -How are the city police doing? -Yeah, except you hear what happened here? There was an attempt Monday, there's three juveniles and then they used a stolen but they got wedged. They weren't able to penetrate and then one car took off that way at 4:00 in the morning. -So they rammed No, they weren't able to make it in 'cause the tight squeeze. It was hella funny. -[chuckling] It just got replaced yesterday I think. So what they started to do is -Okay, how's business? Yeah, tourists are back. They're happy seeing us. -[man] Bro... -Everything's been quiet. -So things are getting better in the city? The mayor was here yesterday Made a little speech. -See those gray planters? I think they want to add more -Did they catch the guys? -Oh, man. All right, well keep up the good work. -Thank you. You have a good day. [Peter] San Francisco Police cars [banging buckets and noise] [man speaking into megaphone] [Peter] What's going on, sir? We're having a strike Marriott hotel. -No work? Here... Here. [noise continues] We're just fighting for a decent contract. [noise continues] &quot;Room cleaners, cooks, dishwashers, and others who've worked Okay. All right guys, and tell you about my sponsor today, Now as you all know we're in Quite often it's not what we're seeing, I got a great app and website It's called Ground News One of the features of Ground News that exposes the political bias Take these two stories for example. &quot;Uber, Lyft, and others offer discounts, There are 38 articles on this topic. 33% are covered by media on the left, Making it a blind spot &quot;Israeli strikes kill 12 people in Gaza, There are 47 articles on this topic, and 23% on the left, And this is why in completely different information silos. Use Ground News to get all sides with access to a vast amount Go to www.groundnews.com/peter Supporting my sponsors supports my work. We'd love you to try it out. Subscribe to my link so they know I sent you Now back to the story. There's a driverless car with a passenger. And you have This is a tourist hot spot. We have the Powell Street cable car. You can see there's a building there Some stuff is still open. How you doing, sir? -Is business coming back at all? -Not really. Plenty. All the convention They go somewhere else. -Moscone Center isn't filling up? No. -Better than two years ago, fair to say? -A little bit better. -A little bit better. Okay. Good luck with everything. -What's your name? -Tony, Peter. -Everyone's leaving, you're staying. All right. This is pretty bad here. All these for lease. This is the heart of the city. What was that before? I think it was So my theory with this cycle is Businesses tried to hang on. They hung on, The people need to come back The safety security situation The tourists have to come back in setting up a shop here 'cause I'm sure Wow, that's closed. I think that was Walgreen's. Market Street's an interesting one. Down there it's a bit more financial and then we're gonna jump into and see how that is. I've never seen it good but what I'm not seeing are the tents on the streets. That's a huge improvement. SF Democrat Headquarters over here and this looks vacant down low. It's quite quiet on Market Street. -How are things going out here, boss? -Making a video on the city Hitting all sides. What are you guys, security or something? No, we out here to make sure the community, Make sure the unhoused guests and stuff don't be blocking the sidewalks and stuff So if someone's having a problem here We'll try to step in and deescalate but if we can't do it -Cool, what's your organization? We out here every day. We keep it clean and peaceful for people -Yeah, I don't see the tents anymore. -Yeah, naw, that part stopped. I'm new here but it's been stopped for a while now. They used to have a tent section -Like on Jones I believe. -All right, boss, keep up the good work. So if you see those videos where people are on Fentanyl or tranq, tents on the street, most likely it's from this neighborhood, This is what it is. Okay, I remember a couple years ago, And I've never seen -Good job you guys, looks good out here. God bless. [woman] ...big speaker. The one that smoke all the weed [old woman laughs] -You know who I'm talking about? -Ma'am, can I ask you a question? Jones Street's doing better -Kinda. Better here. I've been here all my life. -Okay. -So what are you? I'm all over the country, -Put me on 'cause I'm an actress. -[laughter] -Yes, I have. Tell us about Jones Street Um, Jones Street, they have cleaned it up. You gotta get over there, Sixth Street. That's a problem. -It's worse on Sixth Street? -Bunch of problems. Ellis. -Hyde right here and Eddy. [Peter] What happens They take it down immediately -Who does it, the police or who's coming? Police and the city, DPW. -All right, you guys are happy with that? -Cool. -Look, I live right there, new place. That's your place? Cool. -What's your name, ma'am? Sidney, Peter. -Hi Peter, Terry. Hi, Peter. -Hey, you hit me with that thing. That big ass thing. How you gon' carry -What are you playing, man? -Nice, you pretty good? -How old are you. [woman] And keep on. [woman 3] My son is My son is 23. [Peter] You play pretty well? I'm gonna be playing at this park. -Right now? I'll go with you. -Is that cool? Let's go. [woman] Go 'head young man. -You recording? -Oh my God, you're on YouTube? -Nice meeting you ladies, thank you. Hey, YouTube. -What's your name? Calamate, Peter. Where we going, Calamate? Down to Boeddeker Park This is the tenor, it's the bigger cousin and the biggest cousin of them all How long you been playing for? -About three years. -You love it? I love playing saxophone. This kid, I had -Okay. It was really bad He broke it in front of me 'cause he was -[chuckles] The girls like it, don't they? Hey, how you doing, man? -Good, I'm making a video on the city. You know who I am? -I been scared of police my whole life. -I had to run from them once. I was terrified, I didn't know what to do. I ran for my life. -How was the encounter? Not good? I dusted him for a little bit. -What are you filming today? -What's up man, Brandon. I've been out of it for two years. Been going from Pac Heights, to here, What do you think about the city -I haven't been here in two years -It looks better. I'd say looks are deceiving. I don't know the crime numbers As you know, this is The Tenderloin. It's always gonna be We have officers out every hour we're outnumbered. You can look for yourself It's an uphill fight. -A lot of locals are really happy -Thanks, man. We appreciate it. -I've seen your videos. It's pretty cool. Colamate, don't be scared of him, man. Like I said, I'm Brandon. -You live in the Tenderloin? -It's called Bay Hotel. Oh, yeah, yeah. Cool. I'm playing here nine to five. -Where at? -Boeddeker? Have you met Officer Franco, -No. -Cops that are assigned to the parks. Say hi to them. They're good dudes. -Great to see you man. Thanks for all you do. [dog barking and chatter] [Peter] That's a nice park. [claps snap open] Feast your eyes, people. [Peter exhales with amazement] -It's really nice. I gotta find a song, -Do you need the book? [papers shuffle] [Calamate plays Jingle Bells] -[Calamate] That's' one. [Calamate plays Mary Had A Little Lamb] And that's it. -Nice, Calamante. [man encouraging Calamate] Peter So this is the Boys and Girls Club Nice little park. -[woman] Don't get no DUI. [laughter] -What's your take? Well I've been gone for four years. I come out and I'm like, &quot;This is worse.&quot; -Okay, so you were gone Yes. I come back... 2022 I came out and I'm like, It's crazy. It's worse. -Lot of Fentanyl? -Tranq? But it looks clean on the surface. Yeah, because we got and I love it. You know we got the Tenderloin something and they're the best, I deal with so much sh*t everyday. -Really? What's the worst of it? I got men masturbating -It's disgusting. I'm like, &quot;What the f*ck are you doing?&quot; I don't think guys like it either. -[men joking and laughing] [Peter] I've never seen Jones Yeah, well we keep this corner clean. We sit here and we clean it up every day. -When I come at 7:30 in the morning -The whole thing is? -Every morning? So I gotta clean it up or call 311 -Are people sleeping out here at night? I tell them... They break into We got these toilets out here -You know what I mean? -Yeah. [man] Messing it up. And just disrespect, tag all over it. Like, &quot;What the hell are you guys doing?&quot; We let them use the water hose. We let them do, you know, So we just let them do I know why people stop -You know what I'm saying? They'll come in the morning 'cause there still is tents and they'll come clean it out. It's the way you talk to these they're gonna listen to you. If you come at them very rude they're not gonna do sh*t So the way you approach them And even here it's like, You know, like, &quot;Okay, I ain't trying to get So they'll be thinking it's funny. &quot;All right, sis, we got you.&quot; So it's the way you approach them, -Well thanks for doing what you guys do. -Yeah. -You're welcome, thank you. Thank you very much. They're expensive. -You make those yourself? Are you serious? All by hand? -She is the bomb. Yeah, whatever you want on it, If you want your own picture on it, -See you, guys. [Peter] All right, guys. Police station's right there. it's not looking good over here obviously. [homeless people chattering] [Peter] Hold the breath if you don't want to smell meth. That's rough. And then literally two, three blocks It gets really nice. Like four or five blocks up. Very expensive real estate. Beautiful views of the city and totally different world down here. If you don't know my earlier content here but still that's pretty heavy stuff. Fentanyl is no joke. It's really taken over our city streets and I don't know what you do. It's not compassion though letting people rot away on the streets. [Peter exhales in disbelief] Not keeping the tents off completely. You gotta be careful That's really sad. It's really sad. [sighs] Homeless shelter of some sort. You see in so much of the country it should really be in the conversation. One of the top issues at least. [horns and people shouting] [reggaeton music from speakers] [Peter] All right guys, A lot of younger people here, I'd say there's a pretty big art presence. Live music, stuff like that. So I'd say in the city, but more of the preppy young Looks more upscale for sure. It's definitely a wealthier neighborhood. And just blocks away A nice charming neighborhood. A bit wealthier and we're gonna go up over the hill there. Over the other side of Twin Peaks and I'm gonna show you some magic. Some beautiful that you don't see and you can live, like anywhere, I bet I might be that's gone from Pac Heights to the Tenderloin or from Tenderloin to Pac Heights. It's like those two worlds never mix. So even in the small city you have completely different universes depending on your financial situation, your education situation. It really defines and what you're gonna experience. [streetcar passes] So this is West Portal. This is a place where It's a world away from downtown. A lot of the people that live around here might go downtown It's in a way, a different city. It's through the mountain there We have the ocean behind us and you're not into the city vibe Let's check it out. Oh, that's tight, five minutes. Okay, and they're serious about parking No joke here. You'll get the ticket. -[horn honks] -Hi. -How is West Portal these days? -Crazy. -Crazy? Back here? West Portal's just different -I know, I love it. It's very incestuous [Peter ] I was just saying that I'm like, &quot;I bet a lot of people here Yeah, we call it going over the hill. You just get stuck here 'cause there's -Right, and it's nice. There's a big Irish community -So how's this part of the city Things getting better, worse, same? Um, well I think we're doing better So that's good because nobody like downtown people. They're like, &quot;That's too far.&quot; -Nobody knows of you guys. So you don't deal with much homelessness -We do but not to the extent of downtown. -Yeah. -Yeah. [Peter] I was just there. So I'm showing Pac heights -...and everything in between. -Because everyone lives in their bubble. So the neighborhood from here, that way... -Yeah? And then behind us, St. Francis Wood's -That's beautiful. -Have you driven through? It's like mansions, beautiful, -Cool, what's your restaurant? -Spiazzo. We've been here 30 years. So we have customers -Yeah. And they still, and they come here for prom and stuff. That's when we know they really like it. -You still have a good community? -That's awesome -Thank you, take care. So I got that right, and you don't have to go to the city and it's just a small And then you go right through the tunnel -You were born and raised here? What was it like growing up here? Pretty rowdy. -It was rowdy? Bit of fun, lots of sports, lots of fighting, lots of mischievousness. -There are not many of you locals left, Not anymore. Most of them 'cause they all had big families They were putting -Three or four kids in a room. Well once they all grew up and then their parents passed away the houses had to be split up So they sold out. At least that's my theory. -Okay. Then the Asians started moving in one at a time saving money And ultimately they've taken over. -Okay, interesting. So it was a combination of in the summer I want to be in the sun. So they moved over to Santa Rosa -So what is it like now? Many families? It's either old people like me or small families with the overnight that can afford to pay or these industrious people that just and bought up the property and now they're all landlords. -When you were growing up Yeah, there was a group of guys that actually had a West Portal gang and they were tough son of a b*tches. -Okay. Everybody thinks of San but back in the day we were all the kids and blue-collar workers, you know? And this is a pretty... From here on down to the beach -Who was the beef between? Was it like the Irish and the Italians Everybody kind of had their own space This was the Irish neighborhood basically. with a few rich Jews and then you had was a Black neighborhood, Ingleside. Then you had Mission -Yeah. Then when it started blending down There was Whites there. There was always conflict there Some really, really bad people out there back in the '70s when I was growing up. -Okay. Then there was just the obvious ghettos and the Western addition where-- -Tenderloin was always Uh, yeah. -When you were growing up? -Where the hookers go, yeah. Probably worse now drug-wise. -Because the city lets it happen. When I was a kid they were all My godfather was a lieutenant He was a badass, this guy named Bob Marsh. -So good memories? -Yeah. But everybody's gone now We'll go into the grave soon. I've lost five friends -Oh, I'm sorry. Everybody's just dying off 'cause of the lifestyle we led I was smart. -How old are you? -I'm 65 now. I can still walk around -You know a lot of the people No, I don't. -They're not here anymore. Most of them are gone. -Your name? Pat Durnell, Peter Santenello. -Hey, Peter. Something like good, and like neutral, -I introduce them to your channel. -And they f*cking love it. I'm trying to get San Francisco right. -You're from here, right? Okay, the point I'm trying to make is you have the Tenderloin, -Sure. Literally 15 minutes away from each other. -Yeah. -To capture the feeling of here It is. I remember when I was 18 who was like, &quot;Can you describe...&quot; He was making a little documentary. &quot;Can you describe San Francisco &quot;Dichotomy?&quot; It's really extremes and it always has been. When I was younger My mom worked downtown and the Tenderloin has -Yeah. So the homelessness, yeah, but it's not a new phenomenon. Really, that kind of extremes has been this way a long time. It's weird, man. It's like very... I don't know, like the energy... -Not to get all hippie-dippy. The energy flows in a way you just feel it, you know? -Well you feel all the natural elements, -The ocean, the breeze. The micro-climates. I think that's a huge part of it. -That's right. and people out here -People are very in small areas. -Yeah. You have to understand of different racial groups -A lot of Irish out here. The Irish are very... If they were in Ireland Ireland's very much like that too but completely different worlds and it's like you're It might be a mile away but it's like, It's weird 'cause San Francisco's but also extremely local. -You'll see that. Super local. -That's how I needed to say it. What... It's weird. There's a strong and every time I come back -And so many people think -Right. And my point is yeah, there are, Sure. But the vast majority of people not elite in any way, shape, or form. They're just getting through their life, -Working in a shop, a restaurant. -They're just in their world, right? And there's a strong conservative element 'cause San Francisco of people coming from the outside to achieve some kind of utopian thing. So you had the beat movement, Each decade... there's the tech wave. There's wave after wave It's as far west as you can go, right? People coming out west and you hit the edge of it and this is in a certain way. Because it's like this is it and then there's people who live here. I think there's a certain type of person. They harden in reaction -You know what I mean? -You're defensive of your homeland. There's this localism are what people think of but it's weird I'm also proud of that broader impact Right, it's at the leading edge Yeah. Here's something I noticed, -That's where your from, right? I grew up a little bit south of it way more sketch and off-balance and I feel like San Francisco Yeah, yeah. So my friends here said Yeah. -And it's coming back. And I feel as San Francisco that could be a good sign. Yeah. Because I feel like it seems way more well put together this trip Yeah, I completely agree. So it's way better If you go, like on Taraval Grandma's Saloon, but Taraval when I was here I mean also homeless were starting Which was not common It's cold. You didn't really get that and it was coming out here, and I think it is getting better. I think it's a lot nicer now and I think I don't know You know, 'cause people, &quot;This is the time to come back.&quot; 'Cause people have been saying We lost a main industry -I don't think so. It's beautiful, people want to be here. -The real estate is just -It's a bit of a dream land. The closer you get to that ocean, It really does. I wonder, yeah, for that vitalization 'cause right now with tech Some people are coming here AI is still... you know that's a thing What's the next wave The reason tech people San Francisco is a fun city, right? It had that culture, It had the hippies. -You know what it was like. There were so many but that has been flattened out We don't have as much of it. So what's gonna bring What's gonna bring young people -You know? [Peter] This is St. Francis Wood. Just across the street We're getting at that time where there's The sun takes on sort of Nice cool breeze coming through. We have the ocean a couple miles away. You're gonna see this video but I'm shooting right before Halloween. Check out these decorations. [spooky noises] -[Peter] This is yours, sir? Oh wow, you take it seriously. Do you do this every year? Yeah, we add something new every year. So we got this one and this one this year. The boat's been here for a couple years. -Do you have kids or you're the kid? But now they're off to college. So they usually help me -I want to retire but... [spooky noises continue] [Peter] You gotta love this And most people in this city don't even know of this park I'm not even gonna mention it but just another example. San Francisco has got so many cool zones. It's so detailed. Let's get up to the view. Pacific off in the distance. We're gonna get out there, guys. The sun is going down. I just wanted to show you this because this is one of the most especially in recent times. This place has always meant a lot to me and it means a lot to and a lot of people that lived here get out into these parts and just an amazing feeling and the past two videos I made two years ago came from the heart. I was just a bit discouraged and it really feels good Right, I'm gonna drive us through the most Golden Gate Park. It's a monster. It's bigger than Central Park. We're running out of light and get to the ocean. Yeah, the foresight to put in a park because this is the gem of San Francisco. And not only do you have there's another one called Presidio All right guys, end of the road today. and we didn't even see but the goal was To show you the rich neighborhoods, and always know that the creator has control and my goal in this video is to give you And lastly, closing, you might hear, It's dangerous. It's terrible.&quot; Come to San Francisco right now. It's pretty awesome. Don't leave anything in your car. Don't get a hotel near the Tenderloin but it is one of the world's and it's totally fine to travel So thanks for coming along Until the next one. [jazz music plays]