A mysterious race of people known as The Lost and scientists for hundreds of years who were where did they go coming up the true untold Hancock County Tennessee, one of the wildest and there aren't any railroads or interstates and lane State highways meandering through this remote called these mountains home and among them were America - Melungeons. For the most part their in places like snake holler Mulberry Gap or across the state line in Virginia. They weren't physical appearance consisted of dark wavy hair and thin noses and a unique bump on the back of where this exotic race of people came from or Melungeons kept to themselves, living separate never participated in any of the wars that these of their isolation, their existence went largely Yet there were clues of their existence much explorers reported finding men who weren't modern-day Tennessee and during the formation next to write about them in the 1780s when he reddish brown complexion people supposed to be East Tennessee who called themselves Melungeons 1795 even the census listed 300 free non-white and since there had never been slaves or more these 300 free non-white persons were apparently existence of Melungeons. And by the late 1800s, that's when the existence of this mysterious America attracting the curiosity of countless Tennessee and Virginia to investigate the descendants of shipwrecked Portuguese Sailors. from the Outer Banks. Other researchers claimed and even Mediterranean. Wild theories emerged when Hernando De Soto traveled through these that they might be the ancestors of Captain men to the mountains in 1567 and that those men the most spectacular theory were that they were of Carthage after the Romans conquered them the question still remained- Who were these we explore each of these theories separating myth may hold the key to unlocking the mystery of the Storyteller and I hope you're enjoying this true consider checking out my brand new book which is to now. Also be sure to stick around. Coming Appalachian music featuring the song &quot;Melungeon&quot; story. My great grandpa sailed that he was Portuguese. And they pushed him west his other kin. And there they lived. Perhaps one of the most fascinating theories ancient city of Carthage in 200 BC on the banks Phoenician Empire. Carthage was one of the largest with one of the most powerful armies and navies. they set out to take control of Carthage and this years and caused countless casualties before Rome many people from Carthage fled to Morocco and before settling in the coastal region of known as the Moors. Shakespeare himself made play the Moore of Venice. These were the bravely and heroically. Eventually a considerable their ship was marooned off the coast of South as soon as they arrived they were rejected by them on equal terms or allow their children to of their skin. Because of this, these newcomers to Crossing to the western side of the Appalachian Another theory is that the Melungeons Roanoke colony. In 1585 Sir Walter Riley made an settlement in North America. It was a daring Banks off the coast of North Carolina with 120 with dangers and they quickly realized that they mother ship returned to England to replenish with it wouldn't land on Roanoke Island again until 5 fort completely abandoned. The 120 people they was the word Croatia carved into a with the Croatian Indians who modern day blood containing both Spanish and Portuguese Melungeons? Still others claim that Melungeons Hernando De Soto who brought an army of 600 and they navigated the Nolichucky, the French into East Tennessee looking for gold copper silver deeper and deeper into East Tennessee engaging lives of nearly half of his men. De Soto himself his foreign land and it's theorized that many of with Natives and were in fact the true ancestors years later in the 1560s when Spanish explorer through modern-day South and North Carolina. He to establish trading relations with the Native on the French Broad River in East Tennessee yet from the natives in 1568 and those who survived the mountains. Many researchers claim that these However they arrived, by the year 1900 the 700 no other people living in America and they had furiously contended that they were descended during the 1800s claimed that they were here long of Tennessee classified them as free persons perhaps explains why they were concentrated on soil. For the next few decades sensational stories the Melungeons. Then in the 1930s something decreasing. With new opportunities provided making the steep climb down Newman's Ridge and in far away places. Suddenly by the 1960s all the gone and now we're replaced with a Melting Pot of The disappearance of Appalachia's lost tribe. The an obscure footnote in East Tennessee until the DNA databases became popular. Suddenly it became tens of thousands of people claiming Melungeon scale DNA testing were carried out by genetic test since 2011 and all of the results indicated a having African Heritage and others having Native These results have led to more questions than accuracy of ancestry DNA testing and to learn Michael Thomas noted author and retired professor us today on The Appalachian Storyteller, glad first off let me just say this these companies are a few reasons for this first the genetic is based on living populations and in the case were very very few of them after 1960 and the samples from 2011 and beyond- over a half century each company's database is skewed towards might have more American customers while another so important to realize- no single company holds ask what do we know about the genetics of the past do we get our ancestry from. Finally, there's is passed down through a person's DNA. DNA is in time you go you start with two parents then it goes to 16 32 and so on and by the time you go you inherit no DNA. indeed it's a lot to consider studies suggest? Or is their story something much What do you think? I look forward to reading we're giving away a free CD of Appalachian music Lee County Virginia Historical Society. All you about what you think about the Melungeon story I'll mail this CD to you for free thanks for