America is so big, giving drive through Oklahoma so flat. You got a convoy approaching fast. Step on it. Come on. Come on, baby. Okay. Be faster please. Alexi. Okay. Don't worry, don't worry. Engaging defensive measures. Oh my God. Wait. There's no. Oh my God! Well, the shield. Is that Bucky? Oh, it's a winter soldier. This guy is so cool. Oh my God! That's what they talk about. That's not good. Oh! How crazy is it to think of all the monumental fights I mean, the place wasn't cheap, but it's got good optics. Look at you. You are all so adorable. Make up your mind. Your sunglasses. Oh, wait. Hang on. Oh! Assignment complete. What kind of super soldier serum did you get? I don't know, regular Hydra. Hydra. Oh, fancy. Who's this old Santa? The Red Guardian. What? Everyone here has done bad things. Shadow ops contract kills a new former Red room assassin. God only knows the blood on your hands. Pretty ludicrous coming from the dime store, I'll have you know, Yeah, for, like, two seconds. It's getting so tense in here. Oh, God. Who are you? I'm. I'm Bob. And we don't have purpose. Oh, no, I will die. You can't escape the past. So you can either do something about it now. So I will fix it as well. Or live with it forever. Oh, yeah. So what? We'll just punch and shoot. We are the Thunderbolts. Can't kill ourselves there. Thank God you've got the go to cool me. Welcome back everyone It's Charlie, Marvel just released a brand new Thunderbolts There's a whole bunch of footage here, A lot of jokes, a lot of Easter eggs and new footage. So if you're brand new to the channel, This movie's coming out after Captain America Brave this Thunderbolts trailer video, they also released I'll do a video for that next. it's basically their back door Dark Avengers set up movie is in part meant to represent like also the idea that it's just a temporary name all those jokes, the end of the trailer with Red Guardian cringing at that, like Winter soldier saying, All because it sounds like It just co-opt the name. And she says this was an expensive building, which is them aping Tony Stark during the first Avengers this time her saying that the building was expensive Like, even if you're thinking about real world they would have to be crazy money to buy it from Iron But she says the optics are great, The idea of the optics, as in public persona, eventually the New Avengers, basically in the optics but also the obvious reference that the view from the top of the tower here, This is the same place but they begin the trailer within driving across I think this is meant to be after they escaped the Watchtower building where they're you have to imagine they've just gone through the fight And now Red Guardian is casually just joking with them. Like, doesn't look so boring out here, so flat. America. So big. You ever been to Oklahoma? these military vehicles to try and kill them If you're not familiar with the Watchtower, that's the I think this is what they're calling this place, going down below ground. love is slogan on the side of the limousine. Here to Red Guardian. And the fact that his car is so terrible. like. We are definitely not getting away from this convoy, Winter soldier. I love the reveal, too, with the Elena Belova then getting really surprised, like, How come those military vehicles are blowing up and red Guardian freaking out, fanboy over He's so cool. It's not totally clear why Bucky comes after them, in the other trailer footage, Like he just got eyes on her, When the movie picks up, like he's When the movie begins, he winds up helping in saving them So like the Thunderbolts don't exist as a team through the course of the film when Val tries to surprise, without telling them what's going on, of all the dirty stuff so she tricks them all into coming to his Watchtower base to kill them unsuccessfully. Winter soldier sounds like he learns about this plan with them playing this for a bit of a joke. Like you don't know if he's going to save them Sebastian Stan also talked about his role in the movie Like he doesn't know if he absolutely hates them, wants to kill them, you also notice that the weapon that he uses to take out is the same weapon that he used on Nick Fury's car love the title transition here to at the top of the Avengers floor we saw the Avengers getting on to during endgame, we get the voiceover from Val saying how crazy it is She's basically talking about the original Avengers movie, early during Avengers Age of Ultron part of the idea in Captain America Brave New World right after A Brave New World, is that Thunderbolt Ross wants to recreate the Avengers When Captain America Brave New World begins, and going their separate ways with occasional crossovers like there are some surviving Avengers who are still so the idea is that Val and Thunderbolt Ross basically the New Avengers, when really they're kind of who are still surviving after endgame, same basic thing when John Walker became the next Captain America, Captain America, not letting Anthony Mackie's they even have a couple jokes about that characters clowning on John Walker Notice all the boxes all over the place. Like there's very little furniture around here, too. It's actually just finished moving in, and they're still This is meant to be the exact same bar Avengers Tower, like she kept the bar, Then center jumps back in time, showing Yelena Belova in some different part of the world. I think part of the idea is they want to show you the sentry character, and she has all these different going on different missions, rating labs, stealing basically getting Val all the things that she needs so that's probably what Yelena Belova is Notice she also yawns. One of the gerbils is a pet from the lab. Before she blows the lab up. Yelena Belova, also a big dog fan to. this scene of Bucky headbutting these guards here Seems like them on the ground floor But like they're breaking into the Avengers Tower, When they get off the elevator at the top floor. They flashback to earlier in the movie Looks like things are doing well for him. Look, This is a really nice looking kitchen. The funny thing here is that he actually washes didn't know that vibranium is dishwasher safe. love the jokes of Red Guardian. Trying to make casual conversation with Bucky, asking him Trying to explain, like Bucky obviously I don't know what kind of super soldier serum Hydra was able to steal samples Not the exact same kind, Is the super soldier serum that Captain America got. that was the formulation during the first Captain America movie. Then later we saw in the timeline Captain America Stark developed, and they gave that to the other winter so if it wasn't clear Bucky got his super soldier a proto version of the version of the serum within the MCU, Red Guardian was given his Super Soldier That was also meant to be a derivative of the version so we also got a bit of an offshoot, of the formulation that Winter soldier got. So they are correct in saying which version of the super soldier serum did you get, this is meant to be the in a red Guardian. At the very beginning of the movie, we saw in the last trailer, with him Not really sure what he's supposed to do with his life. Like he's driving the limousine really unsatisfied, until Yelena Belova shows up love the Val joke with her calling him an old Santa. He does look a little bit like old Santa, which is also a bit of a joke on the Violent Night movie He played a version of Santa Claus during that. And the other joke here, too, is that Santa Claus is an MCU character technically, He even wielded the infinity Gantlet. if they ever do like a multiverse episode or a like some crazy Deadpool story, like a Deadpool It would be amazing if David Harbor did that. Santa Claus. you also probably notice that Val has the white highlights her not knowing who red Guardian is, is Red Guardian in Red Guardian kept Like I had so many adventures, But all the other prisoners are like, Captain America would have been in the ice there? Couple of flashbacks to. So you what John Walker, US before he winds up meeting the Thunderbolts. Characters, basically going around she mentions shadow ops and shows you It's meant to look a little bit more comic book they mentioned Yelena Belova as backstory. The red on her ledger being part of the Red room, While they show you the exterior footage of what Like I said, this secret base trying to create this entry Notice That's all scratched up. It's meant to be colored But it's not meant to be made of vibranium very apropos dime store Captain America joke here, on their luck and everybody gets clowned on, like, everybody's calling each other the Walmart version Bob as they're calling him in the movie, aka Robert it it looks like Val has just finished creating him, this is probably getting more to the schizophrenic aspect in the way they're dealing with that in the movie. also notice all the titles they used during the trailer are meant to be references to the sentries yellow suit, Yeah. There was a brief look at his sentry symbol I think the idea is that the suit itself is meant to come out of the belt like nanotech armor, We do see his boots So it sounds like at some point during the scene with Val at the top of the Avengers they use the line of the song Do You Want to Die? To show the sentry about to waste like repeat all these guards Not sure if it's the sentry or something else But this is all in and around the new Avengers Tower this is them barely escaping Val's watchtower base. The sentry is base before it explodes. All these scenes of all the car wrecks outside like them assaulting the new Avengers Tower, getting ready Revenge style. Bucky gives them their big call to action speech about his whole line about doing something about it is just a reference to his time as Winter soldier. basically all the shame that he has of all the terrible things that he did notice Bucky is opening I wouldn't be surprised And it doesn't work then they have all the jokes about the actual Thunderbolts Really, really wanting to call it the Thunderbolts, like I said, this is all probably set up for them to become the Dark Avengers from the comics, The new Avengers. I believe their team is supposed to come back I don't know what they're doing during Avengers It's a little too far off, But if there's any other Easter Eggs or references that it didn't talk about in my previous Thunderbolts my new Captain America Brave New World trailer I'll update the link as soon as I post that and click here Thank you so much for watching.