Cairo, a gigantic city has been the capital of Egypt It is located on the banks of the Nile, the main artery of the country as well as trade and agriculture, which for a long time was only possible Combining modernity and tradition, Cairo is an essential stop for those who want to learn that developed in Egypt during the beginning the period of Roman occupation. At the time, Cairo did not exist. The major sites were named Giza and then Thebes, and Tanis in the north. These were the sites, that archaeologists starting at the beginning Initially undertaken by the French, the excavations became more international and teams from all over the world under the supervision The objects brought to light are exhibited near the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. The museum dominates in the heart of Cairo. The veritable political, religious, The entire square was cleared in 2011 which freed the surface It also contains the Mogamma, a huge building and the Omar Makram Mosque. The Egyptian Museum has existed but it was originally located Soon, the collection grew too large, and a new building was built Some statues or copies, to be precise, were placed outside to attract the eye Stelae, sphinxes, and royal statues The architect of the museum, and was assisted by an English engineer. Marked by their classical training, they created a decor The entrance of the museum flanked on the sides by smaller rooms. It really feels Across two floors, the Egyptian Museum brings together and objects, including statues, coffins, sarcophagi, only a small portion All these works came from excavations that have been carried out since Egyptology began in the 1820s. The archaeologist Francois Mariette, and many others, and the excavation of all these works The largest and heaviest pieces while the smaller along with the entire treasure are displayed on the upper floor. Overwhelmed by the artworks and visitors, this museum has gained a successor, The Ministry of Egyptian Antiquities very modern museum The Great Egyptian Museum opened in 2021. Directly facing the entrance, there is a central atrium It contains some of the most major pieces, For example, this colossal statue group and his wife, Queen Tiye. Made of limestone, and portrays the Great Emperor who reigned for nearly 40 years As per Egyptian tradition, and three of their daughters are shown The monumental aspect of the statues however, they actually give off Much older by at least 400 years, are the two granite statues of a king As is often the case, these sculptures were later reused by other more recent pharaohs. In this case, this first happened and then again by Ramesses II, who had them moved in the 13th century BC. Nevertheless, the pair were preserved, Egyptians made their statues including limestone, granite, However, they only had tools made of stone In addition to royal statues, the central atrium That of Merneptah, son of Ramesses II, shows the pharaoh protected by Isis, the wife and sister of Osiris, On the opposite side, the goddess Nut, whose starry robe recalls her role extends her arms which was placed inside. These small blocks of black granite, are called pyramidions. They were placed during the Old and Middle Kingdoms. They feature the names and prayers to facilitate his passage These pyramids were later used The permanence of Egyptian art This sarcophagus, known as an anthropoid sarcophagus was made during the Saite Period This form had been in use In the side corridor of this atrium, such as this cube-shaped statue, certainly portraying and worshipper of the goddess Hathor, The large hall, is a distribution point for the different main branches Its pillars are decorated and the entrance to a side gallery presents one of the most famous objects because of its age. In fact, It portrays the pharaoh Djoser, one of the earliest It was found in the temple one of the great burial sites The statue was painted and its eyes were inlaid In another corner, there is a double homage A copy of the Rosetta Stone, is placed next to a bust of the scholar. It was through the comparison written on the city that he was able to understand and decipher the first symbols He thus opened the way of Egyptian civilization. Most of the known Egyptian works You should always think of them like this so-called reserved head. It was meant to help the spirit when he returned from the other world. The same goes for this statue of a scribe, discovered at Saqqara which dates back With his attention fixed and his hands ready to write, this civil servant for more than 4,500 years. There are also statues evoking the ka, a kind of double of the human soul and has its own priest. This was the function The presence of Egyptian works They're very numerous which makes a chronological You can go from royal or religious statues to small objects in display cases, not to mention Altogether, it can sometimes give but visitors are quickly taken and the richness All of Egyptian life who was at once the owner of the land, and the intermediary with whom he maintained thanks to his worship of them. This is why, from the beginning you can see reliefs like this in this case, Menkaure, and builder of the Great Pyramid Hathor The size of each one It is thought that framed the pillars During the Old Kingdom, the important figures of Egypt cube-shaped tombs in which the burial chambers These depicted lists of things such as bread, beer, and clothes, A little later, during the Middle Kingdom, at the very beginning pharaohs like Sesostris I began to develop which was where Another gallery displays Most of them occur from very hard stones, These sarcophagi were used as containers for the wooden coffins They often bear registers They're watched over the creator god, During the era of Ramesses, the cult of this god and in Memphis, The sarcophagus of the dwarf Djeho He's shown in a life-size portrayal, and the nudity of the portrayal It was probably meant which the inscriptions also tell us about. He was a dancer during the burial of Apis, A collection of mummy-form sarcophagi helps visitors understand the importance Fearing that their mummies they also made so that they could take the place The faces in the inscribed names The inscriptions never failed to include the name In this case, Talos was both a priest They also feature that were indispensable for the survival Engraving and sculpture work Egyptian craftsmen between the smooth, shiny parts It really creates the impression In some tombs, there are embalming tables which were used during the mummification. This was done for certain people. For example, Each period of Egyptian civilization had a certain preferred shape For example, during the Saite Period, this type of sarcophagus with massive rounded forms This statue of Sesostris I was one of the first colossal statues It began a tradition One thousand and six hundred years later, this young king, still used multiple elements The static pose, However, he mixed in Greek influences that are a reminder During this period, many elements spread to the upper classes of society. For example, Horemheb, an important commercial agent wore a royal loincloth Much older, was found in several pieces in Karnak, Very imposing, the statue shows him wearing indicating that the two great regions These statues are not real portraits, but each king is identifiable Sesostris III a sign that he listened to his subjects. This pharaoh had his funerary complex although in the end, he did not occupy it. Just next to it, a large pit was found containing several perfectly preserved They're made of long wooden planks fitted together They may have been built to his final resting place. During the new empire, they made more and more along with another form Here is a standard bearer of Ramesses III that was placed before the entrance which was used as a representation Now, let's turn back time The Narmer Palette because this was the first time appeared in a cartouche. Narmer united Upper and Lower Egypt, as is avowed by the decoration that commemorates the major event. All the symbols and characters This was around 2950 BC, at the beginning One of the best-known kings the builder of the second Pyramid of Giza. During excavations this statue, was found in a wall It shows the Pharaoh sitting He's wearing a pleated loincloth a headdress reserved for kings Behind him, The statue's peaceful majesty make it one This wooden statue is 4,500 years old. Egypt's climate to be exceptionally well preserved. This statue is proof. The intendant Ka-Aper must be pleased. His memory ensuring him an infinite afterlife. The arms were sculpted separately As for the eyes, The only known metal at the time. Another star of the Old Kingdom. The Scribe. Proud of their functions, they had themselves dictated with papyrus on their knees, concentrating on listening Numerous statues of this type indicating the existence serving the pharaoh. Many other statues of all sizes were discovered in mastabas, which were built around the pyramids. They bring to life organized, married, but also stylish and sensitive to fashion. These figures, whether seated, standing, In fact, one of the most ancient customs was to give men a red ocher skin The largest statues in the Egyptian administrative hierarchy, such as this *** probably a close relative of the king. Let's take another short trip through time and spend a few moments In this era, often with painted inscriptions Moreover, during this era, the tombs often contained A 3D portrayal of the scenes or carved on the walls For example, marching in rhythm, are found in the tomb who must certainly There are also models of boats and ships, with sailors and passengers beneath a small building. It was also in the Middle Kingdom that the first which generally adopted the shapes Let's return to the Old Kingdom to admire that Egypt has given us. The statues of the couple Rahotep, general, and son of the King, and Nofret You would think They are so perfectly preserved. They help us begin to understand the way painting to sculpture. The geese of Meidum because of their realistic portrayal. However, they come from the tomb and were painted 4,500 years ago. The painting is a fragment The birds are depicted Just next to him, and an attitude with his son at his side. Although the sculpting of the body the face has a great purity strand by strand. There are also many family groups between spouses and children. For example, Weha and Izuw with their two small children Usually, it shows the wife towards her husband. Placing her hand on his shoulder or waist, Very few other ancient civilizations Shown in the cross-legged seated position Mitri was a very important figure, which you can tell found in his mastaba in Saqqara. He must have spent a considerable sum as wood was a very rare material in Egypt. Like the others, this statue was covered The Middle Kingdom, continued this step tree tradition. High officials and had statues made to foster the hope The style became very elegant. Queen Nofret, wife of Sesostris II had a very sophisticated wig with large locks of hair This hairpiece also had a symbolic role a great protector of royalty in Egypt. Two identical statues were found in Tanis, where they must have been bought more than a millennium Among the rulers from the Middle Kingdom, King Amenemhat III in his artistic creations. There are many statues in his name, Like this group bringing offerings to the God of the Nile Fish, yields of wheat, and papyrus. His features are marked He's also shown dressed as a priest, He wears a panther skin and a very special neckline. The menat was reserved for priests. Very inventive, Amenemhat III where his face is framed by a lion's mane, This amplified the portrayal Many later rulers were impressed and usurped them, including Nehesy, and Psusennes, For the more classical style, this head belonged It was also usurped You can see the characteristic elegance and these seated statues an ancestor of Amenemhat III. This art, blends classicism with a gentleness Seated, he wears the Nemes, and his hands rest on his thighs. It all contributes During this period, with only the head and part of the limbs This was easier to sculpt, They had the advantage where you could write long texts. Some use this technique guaranteeing their eternal prayer. Pharaoh Hor Awibre is known only through this extraordinary perfectly preserved. It represents his ka, his life force, indicated by the two bent arms After a period of instability, which coincided with the peak Two great dynasties with conquering reigns of construction. One of them was Queen Hatshepsut, who had herself depicted as a king and built a magnificent temple In the temple next to it, built by her son-in-law and successor, there was this chapel dedicated to Hathor, with his cow-shaped statue standing in the center. On the walls, paintings show the Pharaoh Some rooms of the museum with a wide variety of statues, evidence of the immense level Amenhotep, the son of Hapu, had this sculpture made which you can confirm The inscription adds Not far away, a rare statue of Hatshepsut Thutmose III, once on the throne, had all the statues of this woman broken apart and thrown into a hole However, only a few of them In this period, and roundness in the facial features Some of the most famous works are the painted reliefs at Deir el-Bahari. A procession of servants carrying goods the King and Queen of the Land of Punt. This was the country the north of Somalia, with whom the Egyptians more or less peaceful relations. The Queen suffered which gave her A distant descendant of Queen Hatshepsut, the young King Tutankhamun son of Amun, the great god of Karnak. Depicted as a child, his clothes in a shroud, he holds the royal insignia, The details of his facial features Khonsu formed a triad with Amun and Mut, of whom two colossal, were found at Karnak, Amun can be recognized by his headdress, consisting of a flat crown which are now missing. As for his wife Mut, she wears a royal crown Watch out because she could also turn At the far end of the museum, It represents the reign of Akhenaten, who decided to leave Thebes and move to the new capital He wanted to escape the strong influence and favored the worship whose name he took. The art of this reign is quite unique. It can be clearly seen from this colossus, either Akhenaten or his wife Nefertiti, either Aten, or Tefnut, the goddess of water. Although the pose and the royal attributes the style is profoundly different. Consisting of elongated features, a drooping belly, and wide hips. It is not clear why the Pharaoh chose What is certain starting with his wife Nefertiti were depicted in the same style. Countless statues and reliefs show the royal family often familial or religious, such as Nefertiti praying to the sun whose rays This is called a sunken relief, because the sculptors carved a deep crease around the silhouette creating a deep contrast of light The family of Akhenaten and spread its image hoping to make the population From the beginning of his reign, the king had tried building a temple to him and placing a series They showed him wearing the Nemes bearing the scepter and the flail, and already showing After his death, the priests of Amun and had the temple All these religious twists from continuing to believe and scrupulously applying The sarcophagi, which were often can confirm this. They bear numerous inscriptions and depictions to aid in the passage and to protect the deceased The crisis of the Amarna Period was resolved shortly His son, Tutankhaten, where he took on the name Tutankhamun. He died very young To display his power, he had himself depicted Horus, and Osiris, The star was once again very classical, The most famous pharaoh who reigned in the 13th century BC. The number of statues in his likeness They all show him as blessed by gods, where the king, still a child, is protected The falcon's head was damaged The art of this period as shown by this head of Ramesses II, An essential complement to a visit the Cairo Museum of Archaeology with statues, sarcophagi, jewels, They were discovered carried out all over the country who for a long time have preferred to avoid any degradation or theft. These objects are a testament of Egyptian civilization, and the immense skill Across the millennia, they continue to carry