Hey guys welcome back again to Ken Tamplin I'd like to discuss how to sing any song, you're going to find is that you think you are you're actually not when you hear a really Here's what I mean by this. A lot of times we think of singing like we SLS, singing like we speak. In fact, we really don't sing like we speak. We sing like we sing. Like we should sing well. And here's what I mean by that. If I were to sing a line in a song, and let's an open course for the virgin sea.&quot; It's an old Styx song, right? What you're going to learn is, now I'm sung the song: I'm sailing away, set an Right? He really pushes the sound in mask into the He's a phenomenal singer, by the way, and which is awesome! But I bring this up because there are what Now what I like to do is I like to get my with vowels only first. But how do we work up songs with vowel only their relationship to each other, and we're can over-sing those vowels, okay? So let's say, let me speak that line to I'm sailing away. Set an open course for the virgin sea. Now I wouldn't go: "I'm sailing a way. Set an open course for the virgin sea..." Right? Maybe in theater we might want to do that and we want the last person in the row, in But for the most part, we want to break this And we want to actually eliminate consonants So what I encourage my students to do is to song is, and eliminate the consonants altogether. And then we're going to talk about vowels Okay. Now, there is what I call vowel substitutions. Now, these vowel substitutions vary, and they're In fact I just saw one vocal coach put out "how tosing any song". I'd like to make some adjustments to this in that, and if she's listening, hopefully 30 years of experience of doing this for a And those vowel substitutions are as follows: between 12 and 16 different vowels. In Bel Canto or in Latin, and Italian, there Ah, Aa, Ee, Oh, Ooh. Now, I've studied Bel Canto most of my life, by which all other vowel sounds happen. However, it falls very short of, the traditional vowels that we use in the English language. So if I go La, Ah, Ah, Ooh, Oh, Ah, Aye, Ee, This is called, I'm going to show you something shape the vowels themselves to morph easily So we want to take the path of least resistance, when those vowels join, or are married together transition, keeping the maximum space in the movement, the least amount of tongue movement, of the vowel. Now, the higher up we go, and this is where - good information, by the way, there's It sounded like she, we somehow crossed paths But within this, the higher up we go, the So if I were to go to do this really high, Oh, Ah, Eh, Ee, Ee, Eeeee... You know, Ooh, Oh, Ah, Eh, Ee? If I were to go really high, Lah, ah, ah, Did you notice that there was almost no change They were super-subtle. So the higher up we go up this food chain smaller spaces that we get within the vowel And we take the path of least resistance from What do I mean by that? Well, this is far more than just a simple But there's something called the Family to one another when we sing. So as we go up, we convert these vowels. So if we were to sing "I" for example, "I" converts to Ah, but not in every case. So if I go, I don't go "I-eee". It's just kinda weird, right? And, by the way, we talked about diphthongs You don't necessarily go "I-eee" and at the very end you can add just a little The Ah vowel and I-Ee, right? Now, the higher up we go, if I sing "I" more of an Aa, or Aa-Aye in the sound. So these vowel shift. And I know this sounds complicated, and it they change the higher up we go in the food and the intensity of what we're singing, So I would never sing a pure EE. Now let me demonstrate this in a different We talk about a vowel holding its shape, right? The shape of the vowel, and then having a into the "speaking level sound" of the go up top we don't ever sing in the purity I don't go (high pitch) "EEEEE". I go "Aye" quickly, like A-y-e, "Aye-eeeee", that vowel, and then all of a sudden, I'm Buy I used "Aye" as the portal, or the This is true for "ooh"also. If I'm on the bottom and I sang "Oooohhhh" up I go "Oh-oooooh" I go "Oh-oooh" than that is "Oh-oooooooo", right? I don't go pure "Oooh!" I could never get there. So I use oh to get to ooh, and I roll into And I don't wait to the very end to give because I want to get to the purity of that that cool little amphitheater that we hit the throat, right? So this becomes really important, how we relate So let's get back to how we can sing any I'm sailing away. Right? We started with just the vowels and no consonants. As we translate those vowels from one vowel of least resistance. So an excellent way, and I mean an excellent ah, aye, and EE, as transitional vowels, and how you can practice this. And reverse those vowels in a different kind Now what we really need to remember is EE, to eh, like "led" or Aye-EE, like the This other vocal coach says to sing "ih" That is patently false, and absolutely dead In the lower registration you can do that. The higher up we go, we actually avoid "ih" Or oo like hook, if we go up too high. "Ih", goes to "eh", e-h, like "ehhhh". I don't go "ihhhhhhh"... ih,ih,ih,ih! It pulls too much tension. So if I sing "I'm gonna flip my lid"... Aye, Aye-EE, like the number Eight come in? I didn't go "I'm gonna flip my lid", It's too much tension, in fact you'll to want to raise on you. So there's a lot of little nuances. I cover all of this in my singing course. But there's a lot of these little nuances going to sing your song. But I want to do just a couple of quick scales are related in the throat, and how we can Now, there's a lot more to it than this So we're going to start by going lah on tonsils, keeping the maximum space, remembering car, and were going to go Ooh, Oh, Ah, Aye, Lah, ah, ah, Ooh, Oh, Ah, Aye, Ee, Ee, Ee, Now, the higher up I go, the smaller the spaces. Now, the space is the big in the throat, in but we actually want to compress the vowels Lah, ah, ah, Ooh, Oh, Ah, Aye, Ee, Ee, Ee, Hear me doing it smaller? Lah, ah, ah, Ooh, Oh, Ah, Aye, Ee, Ee, Ee, Do you hear the higher up the food chain it Now, the higher I go up from here, the more sound into the front. Lah, ah, ah, Ooh, Oh, Ah, Aye, Ee, Ee, Ee, So I'm not carrying so much girth or mass sounds and make them smaller. When we combine this with the songs that you're of a sudden you're going to have all of knew you had, and then gently, little by little, as you can, to keep that throat open. Now there's something called glottal stops, Any time that the glottis closes down and So, Um, buh, things that close down. "Maybe". You can substitute those consonants with different Like, instead of going "maybe, maybe, maybe, You can use small things like a "v". "vavy, vavy, vavy, vavy..." Until you can force the throat to stay open, across the trachea and allowing air to come talked about a minute ago, it's trying to or out of the nose. And the back of the throat's going "Hey Do you want air to come out of the mouth, Or a combination thereof? Now I'm going to cover this again. That's actually in a whole other subject We'll get to that in another subject. I cover all of this in my singing course, If you like what you heard, please like and Please come check out my singers forums. Gosh, we have almost 10,000 people in there It's just insane, it's growing like a So you can get a ton of this amazing information. You can click here and check that out. I have a singing course out called How To step-by-step how you can build muscle memory the fast track for awesome singing. Okay? Thank you for joining me. Until next time... Ken Tamplin Vocal Academy. Peace. Out.