his is the United States' third largest embassy. here's number one: weighing in at a staggering 106 largest embassy in the world. It's not really give you a sense of scale, it's almost the exact where the comparison ends; After all, the Magic insulated from the violence and instability and metaphorical walls of money, security, and Compound is... ummm... the... same... But without When the US invaded Iraq in 2003, they set up a but they immediately dreamed bigger. In gave the Americans this sweet chunk of real and they got to work designing and building the designed by Kansas City-based architecture firm order--and built mostly by First Kuwaiti General profound trust the United States government has in could be contracted to build the embassy, for in workers from places like Nepal and Bangladesh diplomats actually work in day-to-day, were built one. The whole endeavor, which was originally costing a cool 736 million dollars, nearly twice again, has Space Mountain. I just don't a place and don't give it a Space Mountain. unbelievable amount of other stuff: for starters, glass windows for the thousands of people who for the ambassador and their deputy, two office I'm told, a wide variety of cuisine options and, all the food is free. All the food is also, fun because if there's one thing Americans in Iraq are There's also an "American Club," whatever that a salon, a movie theater, and a fully equipped tennis courts, and a soccer field with an desert. And this doesn't matter, but it came up in for some reason, they were stocking 3,568 704 thousand dollars. I guess I don't know how my job is, well, this, but that's too much... Right? Broadway and Main Street. Main The Embassy stands in stark contrast to ranked second-to-last on an annual quality of life because that same survey usually puts them dead was--and at time of writing still is--an active and--and I wouldn't rank this as the same lot in research--really bad traffic make Baghdad a for their part, wanted to make sure American and didn't want Iraq's government to control and made sure their city-within-a-city was of Baghdad. Naturally, not everyone in Baghdad one thing the United States doesn't super worry find super cool and awesome. What we do worry As I said, there's irrigation for the soccer whole water system, from wells to treatment Baghdad's. They also handle municipal services their own internet uplink and telephone center embassy's cell network, it'll give you a New York to their ten-generator power plant, which runs on Some, i.e. the Inspector General, have noted that electricity utility like all the other embassies kilowatt hour instead of 35, thus saving millions Or maybe they'll keep setting money on fire to be about sixteen years old, you'll do anything to In all, the compound is home to 21 times whatever the standard level of reinforcement three-plus meter) perimeter wall made of They've also got security cameras everywhere, and, bunkers around the place. The senior staff at the any threats they might be facing, and frequently Though, hopefully the diplomats and civilians security guards are the literal Marines. and re-enter the embassy, there are just five use in emergencies. Each entrance features a big for people to come through... or , in case of a damage in exchange for buying the Marines inside But ground entrances, obviously, are for normies. the security apparatus around Americans the confines of the embassy. In fact, for allowed to fly commercial into Iraq, so right Baghdad Diplomatic Support Center which, among to get people into and around the country. weren't enough, recall that the whole compound better known as the Green Zone, namesake of a he didn't buy a zoo. Anyway, the Green Zone is a or 24-ish Magic Kingdom--area in Baghdad that is and this big clock, among other things. It's it's symbolized American power. Around the perimeter around the entire zone, employing putting up blast walls, demanding a special eased in the 20-ish years since they were put in otherworldly enclave that the public couldn't even the zone are open to cars--but not trucks--from Baghdad traffic everyone's talking about. Compound in Baghdad a massive and insanely and insanely fortified area. And look, it's not multiple attacks, including ones seemingly aimed from. I just don't get what would make this because once again, all that land, all So the Baghdad Embassy Compound has all this in but what about you? Sure, you might not have a your data? Is it secure? Well it can be, thanks to is a service that keeps your data safe from the sell it, or be super annoying with it. The issue up loads of personal information and then sell it spam calls, or someone takes out some big loan one of those people search sites, that's probably you actually can fight back: You have the right their datasets... it's just a massive headache to do broker, request removal, handle objections, and info. Or you can get Incogni, which does all that about it at all. So if you wanna protect your or just support this channel because you're nice, an exclusive 60% off an annual plan, on top of a