There is this research paper that has been on my mind for years. It shows that there is a where the smarter you are, the more likely you are to get it wrong. So I asked my American friend and ask people the to see if we could replicate its findings. The first question in the paper on skin cream. So in this made-up study, people with skin rashes are assigned to either the experimental group where they use a new cream for two weeks, or the control group for that same period. And at the end, they count and how many got worse The results are summarized in this table. So the question study - Did the skin cream make the rash better or did it make it worse? - [Derek] The question is a little tricky because it requires - I think better. - Better? So what are you looking at? Just real quick. - I'm gonna be honest. I'm just looking at how - [Derek] If you just look well that is the group and the rash improved. - So this number is - Yeah. - So you might conclude it makes rashes better. That is the intuitive answer. But if you look more carefully at the data and use proportional reasoning, you realize that in the about three times as many But in the control group, around five times as many So using no cream, your rash was significantly In fact, it's a fair conclusion to say that the cream, on The lead author on this - I'm Studying the science - He and colleagues recruited of 1,111 Americans to participate. But before answering the each participant was asked to assess their numeracy. - And numeracy, it's to use complicated mathematics, but really to reason well - Numeracy scores for the normally distributed. Now if you group together with a certain numeracy score, say group all the zeros all the twos and so on. Well, what fraction of each group do you think got the skin Well, the results are - Oh, this is math. - It's math. - In a fifth of the people, which is a smaller number- - The rash worsened, so - So it didn't make it better? if anything, made it worse. - [Derek] The higher the numeracy score, the greater the fraction of participants who got the answer right. - Yeah. I don't think the 'cause I think I need- - I think I would need and what's the cream you're giving me. - [Derek] Those with manage to avoid the - What are the- - I've had nobody get into This is great. Excellent. You got that right. - And correctly determine that the cream actually made rashes worse, which is no big surprise. But this version of the skin to some of the participants. Another subset saw the same exact table except the column headings were reversed. So in this case, the skin cream So how did the different with this version? Well, again, the highest numeracy groups were the most likely to But below a numeracy score of five, the results were pretty flat. That could be because even most people might expect a which just happens to be the But the true purpose of the how numeracy effects our ability to reason accurately with data. No, it was to figure out if something else affects our reasoning ability. Specifically, politics. (exciting music) If you look at the skin cream data again, but separate the participants by their self-reported so liberal Democrats versus there's basically no All follow the same pattern which makes sense because a as apolitical as it gets. But what the researchers of the participants was the opposite. Instead of skin cream, they presented a fictitious In case you don't know, that gun control reduces crime, whereas Republicans because it takes guns outta who could prevent or deter crime. So in their made-up study, the cities were divided into two groups, those that had recently making it illegal to and similar cities that Over the following year, to see where crime increased And the results are Again, no surprise, it's exactly the same as the skin cream example. Of course, there were two variations, one where gun control decreased crime and one where it increased crime. Now if you look at the they paint a very different picture. - It's kind of obvious, if people are gonna start shooting people. And you know, if you don't have guns and you outlaw them, cities are obviously gonna But the thing is, it's like you can't just take people's guns away You know, like that's just, - So wait, but these numbers though, how did you just come to that conclusion? - [Derek] When Republicans where the correct answer is gun then the accuracy improves with increasing numeracy, just as before. But for the Republicans where gun control decreases crime, well, numeracy skills no Those with a numeracy score of seven or eight are barely more than those with a score of zero or one. - So where the crime improved, that were prevented because And the crimes that were worsened, that could have been other to guns, you know? - And the same is true The more numerate people in recognizing the correct that gun control reduced crime. But, if the data showed that then all of a sudden numeracy didn't help. Remember, this is the exact same data and question as the skin cream example. The only difference is now that data is presented - And the biggest is among the most numerate people, they're scoring a lot worse The low numeracy people are less likely to get the right answer if that answer is threatening than if it's consistent The people who are high in 45 percentage points less - Rather than using their to come to the correct conclusion, they somehow selectively apply it to justify the conclusion they - Illegal guns, less crime. - Illegal crime. I wouldn't have thought that. - And as numeracy increases, people are more divided about the efficacy or the risks of gun control regulation. The same thing with fracking, and same thing with global warming. We see the polarization but we also see the same effect when we measure people's in other ways. The people who are high more polarized than The people who are high and you see more polarization, not less, as they become more proficient - Based on this data, of and look at all the sources. And of course there are because people are always - This is, the numbers are - It looks, but, if I were to I would just say that the playing field - It's pretty even? - Okay, great. - Now, everyone wants to that they could change their beliefs in light of the evidence. - If you encountered that you were like, I've done my research.&quot; But it contradicted your how would you react to that? - I'd consider myself to in that aspect. - At least be open to learning. - Yeah. and that's the way it is, I - I'm gonna have to deal with it. I can't be like, &quot;Well, I - All I see here are to hold partisan beliefs all the while deluding themselves to these beliefs via an independent, sober consideration of the facts. The truth is that mostly to fit in with our tribe. And that, in the most important Because humans are very social creatures, and for most of our evolution, we've depended on each other for survival. Being ostracized from the as walking off a cliff. If we question the status quo by rejecting what those around us accept as true, we jeopardize our place in society. - Man, I've learned that as we think. That there is so many that we think share nothing in common. - I attended Zoom meetings and it was kind of scary because they sounded just like my side. - It makes you think about if we didn't have that burden, and I think it would be and pretty extraordinary if - So what do we do about this? Well, I don't think there but Kahan has identified a One is avoiding partisan rhetoric. Rather than talk about gun avoid the loaded terms and instead focus on No buzzwords that could trigger No villainizing the other side, just constructive solutions One example comes from southeast Florida where a bipartisan group of to take action on sea-level rise. The plans don't debate whether climate change is manmade or not. They just deal with existing The other thing is to - Maybe the science curious people, they're more willing to including information that's inconsistent with their political ideology. - With increasing science comprehension usually comes increasing But with increasing science curiosity, this same increase in That is a start. I am not going to claim Problems of this sort are likely as old as the human species itself. They are just much more obvious now that everyone can post, tweet, comment and basically shout loudly into this nearly infinite digital space. The only thing I hope to The beliefs of most people are not formed by a careful consideration of the data. That includes me, and it Acknowledging this is (bright music) One organization that is and our information echo So we specifically asked because they gather news sources from around the world in one spot and show you any political That way you can read about the same issue from different perspectives to separate facts from politics. For instance, the FBI about violent crime in the US. This is a key political issue that was referenced in Most left-leaning outlets in violent crime. Some use this to counter Trump's claim that crime is on the rise. However, right-leaning sources under Harris and Biden in So how can we have such a disagreement? Well, Ground News lets us dive deeper into the reporting to uncover that right-leaning sources referenced a completely different And this survey collected data differently and crucially, couldn't while the FBI statistics did. Similarly, the FBI statistics couldn't include unreported crimes while the DOJ survey specifically does. So we're comparing which is the source of the disagreement. This kind of critical thinking is crucial to keeping our biases in check and so is personal accountability. Ground News helps here too with data-driven insights from your personal News Bias dashboard. This lets you track your and biases so you can Check it out at groundnews.com/ve or scan this QR code. By subscribing through our off the Unlimited Access Vantage Plan. This is their biggest and it's only available You know, Ground News so by subscribing you're to the development of the platform and a more transparent, So I want to thank Ground and I want to thank you for watching.