A long time ago, Confucius and his students stumbled upon a hermit at least a hundred years had dropped and he was singing while doing so. was confused. He couldn't comprehend why the very poor and alone, having to scour for harvest showed compassion for his sad fate. But the old me? Am I that pathetic in your eyes?" "Well, work hard in your younger years and didn't care find a wife and have children to look after you. "Listen, young man," the hermit said, "I laugh hard in my younger years, competing with others, not having a wife and children? That's great. It's peaceful. Why shouldn't I laugh and sing?" Lieh Tzu. It shows a typical Taoist way of in what we perceive as loss. Even though the he is quite the archetypical "loser" in many blessings in disguise. But for most people, We're easily swayed by societal standards This is where Taoist philosophy becomes especially not just about what other people Isn't that something we need today? Just and times are changing rapidly. Life is stressful and depression and others on the verge. ancient Taoist sages to help you If you want to support Einzelganger, consider to ad-free videos and free merch. Thank The Taoist sage Zhuangzi observed long ago wealth, and status. In his time, people pursued and traveled to far places to enjoy the sights. our modern-day media constantly pressures seek out that new, shiny thing, whether The more lavish, the better. Society big houses, nice cars. We get raised under the wealthy. Material success, status, and we decide people's worth. It's what "If they do not got these things, they are very sorrowful and go on Once you commit yourself to pursuing all these enough. Once you get a nice car, you will likely things get old quickly; the luxury no longer feels this once so-much-desired (but pricey) house much happier in the long run, you still have you become trapped--a slave to your possessions. mode of living. People living like this wear the body," he stated. And isn't he correct, and depression in modern-day societies? In pursuit quest for fame on social media, we're exploiting makes us happy. Many do it so other people hold but they're nothing more than cogs in the of stuff and fame that never satisfies, something ancient Greek philosopher Epicurus pursue nowadays as unnecessary and vain. people look down on poverty, bad reputation, and to be a nobody. You don't want to be a loser, These people don't have the finest clothes, to see the many fabulous sights of the world. But Zhuangzi said we can't judge right proposes "doing nothing," as doing "Heaven does nothing, and Earth does nothing, and thence We could ask ourselves: do all these external found in the simplest things? Isn't the mere happiness arises? The reason we're unhappy seems do so following a dead-end path. How about Our achievement society scares us into of the capitalist system. We're expected to be race and to be successful in what we do so we can From the Taoist point of view, we're all playing them as the truth, and act accordingly, taking about walking in line and what people think about as odd, worthless, or inadequate, whatever conforming to what society values: having many and being a useful member of society: "I'm American. And I'm proud of it!" Of course, no shame in looking down on those we didn't. wrong by the world's standards. The majority may universal truth. Taoist sages generally love suppose everyone thinks that being 'unambitious' people fret greatly about not being seen flaunt their career ambitions, and spend plans--just to prove to others that they're lack such aspirations are generally frowned But the Taoist sages challenge us to look we could ask ourselves: Is being unambitious worth the daily stress? What if we choose in the machine? How about we become like the expectations? Would we be worse off or not? tree, one of the most profound parables that Carpenter Shih and his apprentice the village shrine. The oak's branches could Around the oak gathered dozens of people, amazed "Wow, I've never seen such a beautiful tree. But "Are you kidding me?" said the carpenter. crooked it is? Make boats of it, and they'll instantly! It's useless!" dreamed the crooked tree spoke to him. You think I'm worthless, not good for anything. apple and orange trees. They're useful. They bring look at their existence. They're being exploited. abuse. Their big branches are broken off; they're produce anymore, they're cut down. Do you see They can't even live out the full years Heaven use. And being useless turned out to be of great this big? I owe my long life to being useless." generally seen as a bad trait (especially for the tree. It reminds us of the old hermit hid a blessing in disguise. There's always Pei-kung-tzu and Hsi-men-tzu, long-separated astonished at how different their lives successful, and respected, and most people didn't like or trust him. "When we both took office in and I was dismissed. When we both farmed, with me. When we traded together, you made End quote. wearing old clothing, eating food usually and being unable to afford a cart. In contrast, giant mansion, and traveled in a luxury vehicle. education? Why did their fates deviate so much? this perceived unfairness, Hsi-men-tzu exploded, being more virtuous and, therefore, more worthy felt depressed after this slap in the face and asked why Hsi-men-tzu insulted his old friend, who that he was less worthy than himself. But the sage be measured by social or political success. "You are successful in society not because you are luck in everything you do. On the other hand, due to stupidity or lack of virtue. It's because End quote. heard what the sage said to his old friend, let his lack of luck be a reason for unhappiness. contentment, whether rich or poor, successful or about how things work out around us, but things. Usually, our best bet is to let things go through them instead of trying to control them. stressful world than letting all these attachments comes? Who's more successful? The wealthy always chasing more? Or the poor, waking up Thank you for watching.