Ayup everyone. Well you asked and its finally here. want it to be reliable, you want it to be a good Most of all maybe, you want it to be cheap. Well today I'm going to take you through some the best used motorcycles from the 1990s. will ever be today. Prices can only most were built to an amazing standard. scratching I came up with the following great bikes out and you can tell me in the included. That is always an interesting read. which bikes I have put in my particular First for today is the ............. Now there is little need to introduce the CB500 It continued for ten years with The engine chucked out around 58 HP at 9500 which isn't huge. However, the engine is lively wide open throttle all day and never complain. unbelievably chuckable and even ended up with its around a tight circuit I have been passed They also come with an incredibly practical 18 anything up to around a 325 miles or over 500km. with practical reliability in mind, and it You can strap a remarkable amount of luggage to put a pair of clip-on's on and you have your Versatile and endlessly reliable this bike only and probably should have been mentioned, Someone once said I had forgotten more would ever know, I'm not sure if that Next we have the Kawasaki ZX9R built from 94-2003 needs little introduction. The fact that can be a bargain now. Sports bike riders newest fastest model. That means there are bikes I have seen have hardly even been run in. engine was powerful, it wasn't as track focussed This didn't impress the journalists who on the road it was a fantastic bike. plush and comfortable compared to many. It of that engine was brutal, addictive and The later C model was very much and harsher, and less comfortable, although of those "Be careful who you listen to" moments. wanted to improve it. Unfortunately they sector of the market. That meant that the small got a much better and more focussed track bike. is that we lost that comfort at speed loosing the ride height adjuster too. out at trackdays fighting it out with much faster Next we have the Honda CBR 600 F2 Now you might consider this cheating because the but from 1991 to 1994 we had the CBR 600 F2 and they are still affectionately called If there is a 'classic' CBR, this is it. and the ZXR600 being faster, it was the The new sleeker bodywork hid a perimeter The engine was now 599cc and made around 100 rear wheel. On a good day that would give you a The bike continued to be developed for years and but in many ways the Steelie is still Despite its incredible power for a 600CC bike flaws. The gearbox is slick, the suspension comfortable bike than many other sports bikes. Honda had to work very hard to make any Interlude Now maybe not all, but you will find many of even lower if you don't mind tinkering. That but for that price you can often get a well has been well looked after. You might that would have cost you a fortune to buy new. day of the week and enjoy the fact you got it And that's the the thing about these bikes They have to pay a fortune for a fantastic motorcycle. showroom floor there is a massive choice on the find one of those cherished motorcycles that has an inch of its life and had its oil changed long There are some things to look out for and not every add on or extra or aftermarket part is original condition and it won't be long before Knowing that someone has spent big bucks on and can only make the ride better. Unfortunately cans out there, especially if the bike Some cans, especially short stubby open unless they have been retuned. This increases the Check what you can in any paperwork What kind of rider are they? How meticulous These are all factors to consider when Anyway, back to the bikes and this one is a bit The Triumph 900 Trophy 3 was Now this is a bike I have a forgive me if I sound a bit biased. I There were three phases of the When Triumph was reborn no one really knew what was built around a flexible engine base. There but the 900 engine was fantastic and far It was strong and fast and in the Trophy touring market was highly competitive at the triple to challenge the Triumph. That syncopated the surge that came as you opened the throttle The fuelling from the 3 Mikuni carbs was and so much better than even the most modern Roll on power was unbelievable. I used to about 3 seconds, and it really was that good. all the early Hinkley bikes had two flaws. the fact that the massively over engineered speeds it could get a bit top heavy. a lot of the bikes where the bike has simply the bike around in a car park. Once they started arms like George Foreman to stop them going over. easier to address on the very The problem with the sprag clutch was you have a long hard job in the workshop. Triumph refused to recognise it as a production all the stars were aligned , chanted mystical they could run for years. Mine had over 85,000 I have known many go over the 100 thousand mile proof that the sprag clutch has been replaced you The early first generation Trophy, built in could get to the sprag clutch, but the later So, that meant engine out, splitting Apparently the job can be done easier with the many of the dealers didn't even want to take on. models built from 96 on, is that you had Whoever designed that fairing for making everyone else look at it for so long. and the fairing was effortless to sit behind, so So, if you have or buy one, keep your battery if you hear it go, just go home and have a To continue we have the Yamaha XJR 1200 built That is a phenomenal 24 years. Now picture this in the Despite track success with the FZR range Honda in the showrooms of the world. They of the GTR 1000, despite costing millions Some wise guy says "Why don't we just Well, with streamlined bodywork and all the successful bikes of the time being Even braver was the Yamaha exec who said yes. It was at that moment this thoroughly modern twin loop cradle frame and a stonkingly powerful this is another moment when one actually seemed to listen to customers. called retro, but that would not do it justice. never have lasted an incredible 24 years in the just built in the way people had It wasn't flash, it wasn't the best at anything bike and always had performance to spare. For production mean that there are more aftermarket rumours that Prince Andrew has had squashed. survive the most brutal thrashing day that might well have been the only design criteria Next we have the Harley FXDX SuperGlide Sport. The they continued to 2005 with a fuel injected model get crucified about by both sides. you pick that one" and the non Harley riders will Harley", but you know I rarely choose the obvious. with, I still have mine. I just wish To be clear, I always hated Harleys, then after an a while. I found a lovely Honda Shadow VLX which to carry 2 people and luggage in comfort. I tried and then a guy convinced me to take an FXD he with a single disc front end, but the engine was I left and did some research and found that the adjustable suspension front and rear. Luckily I great and you can see me throwing it around in I have never had the dreaded Dyna wobble many much more powerful bikes. I also but they still show no real signs people will often say is a problem. carb fed 1450 Twin Cam engine and the Dyna I prefer the mid pegs but that is What you get is a comfortable mile eater that will both the engine and chassis have more aftermarket Now the Dyna chassis has been discontinued and rise over time. If you can get hold of a twin wasn't happy with the single disc front. And if adjustable suspension you are onto a winner. but for a Harley they can be a I know you will have something to say Next we have the Aprilia SL 1000 Falco was first sold in 1999. It really is a fantastic some ways it is less sought after than the Mille more softly than the Mille engine. However, it Compared to most touring bikes it is fast and It wasn't quite as roomy as the big and unforgiving as the sports bikes can be. suspension all around and a comfortable riding whatever the road brings, and it has to be one Prices are about as low as they will get now their bikes. That means you can be more on time. All in all a good Falco will it will stand out from the crowd and never Next we have the Ducati ST2 the most popular bike in Ducati's line up when it from the 2 valve per cylinder Paso engine which was straight from the 916. It just lacked the top and that was what most Ducati riders wanted. express" and it seemed an apt term. It was journeys than most of the Ducati line up. This was a practical Ducati that could be used from the big four Japanese companies. It just though, and because they aren't as sought after the price of the other Ducati's of that time. when the Castiglioni brothers took them to the Next we have the Yamaha XJ 900 Diversion be after the debacle of the GTR1000. As well as Now let us make no bones about it this was with very little in terms of Like the XJR, it wasn't the best at so much more than the sum of its parts. but it still had more power than most riders but it was preset to work really well in the real so it was ridiculously reliable, and the shaft The nose-cone fairing made touring FZR derived engine and smooth gear-change. that it would have been even more fantastic with a is reasonably long, but I do feel lowering 5th That said, don't let that comment take Next we have the Suzuki GSF 1200 Bandit This is the last motorcycle on this list today is another bike that could well have been It is a stand out bike for many reasons and means there are plenty to choose from now. but the GSF 1200 Bandit is the I remember the Bandit being labelled retro and point. The 1200 Bandit is, was and possibly always will do whatever you need it to, whatever the It is as happy taking a trip to the shops or twisty back roads. I think of the Bandit always happy to go and do anything you want This is another bike that has a huge and the GSX derived air and oil cooled engine I think the 30 year old design has actually less old fashioned than some modern bikes. 90 Nm of torque these bikes will keep where you really are struggling to hold on S models that had a small front fairing. tame old UJM grabbing the throttle of the 1200 front wheel didn't touch ground until 4th gear. engines they ever made. Why he would First Some Thoughts From The Shed had a bit of a revelation, with the realisation whole host of absolutely stunning bikes out from parts bins, and they are actually some Maybe there is something behind the Let me know your thoughts in the comments below. Lastly We Do Have Some Special mentions As usual with my lists there are a few bikes I featured the FZR 1000 in the 80s bargains video didn't include it here. However, from the FZR came All were amazing bikes. From the first Thundercat family still lives on today, although we have now Honda as usual could have had several entries Fireblade to the unbelievable RVF 750, but none The Kawasaki 750 Zephyr is another bike that filled with fantastic bikes. Not as powerful and more than fast enough for most roads. The relaunch of the company had gone well but they still hadn't quite found their place in triples came out with a newly engorged 955cc many ways the Sprint RS is the cream of the crop. Japanese bikes, but without the temperament of the I know I am not alone if I say there is something Final Words I will end it here on a I hope you enjoyed it and I look forward It would be great if you could like the video and join what must be the fastest growing You will get weekly news, views, adventures I remember it wasn't long ago I was we got to 1000 subscribers and it wont I really cant thank you all enough. You are the all the time I do, researching and producing the Visit the website in the link below for The Red-bubble shop is also linked in the of biker T Shirts and other merchandise anywhere There are more exciting motorcycle shed and beyond on the website too. You won't be disappointed. Ride Free everyone.