Hey Vsauce. Michael here. In 1924 psychologist Carney Landis drew lines on people's faces and then photographed them in various to study facial expressions. But he didn't use actors and he didn't tell the participants to he subjected them to actual trauma. He had them do things like smell ammonia, look at pornographic images and even reach their hand in buckets of wet slimy frogs. His most intense directive involved ordering them to take a knife and while being photographed cut off the head of a living rat. Seriously. Most initially refused to cut the head off, two-thirds agreed to do as they were told, including a 13-year-old boy referred to for high blood pressure thought to be Many believe his inclusion in Landis' experiment was an accident. If replicated today Landis might be arrested but what is psychologically arresting is that the unease and disgust and fear they show is real. It's disturbing but fascinating. We are paradoxically drawn towards some car accidents, car chases, the possibility of a crash or a fight, or a natural disaster; I mean not one that hurts anyone, of course, but one that's exciting. Celebrity scandal, drama, disfiguration, true crime, war and gore, the macarbe. Like the Kangling, a trumpet used during Himalayan Buddhist rituals We often feel guilty for being interested in these types of things, after all, they are unpleasant but yet we can't look away. Why? Well, there is no single reason, there are but they can be mould into a mnemonic. We like disturbing things because we like to scream. They give us strength, catharsis reality, exploration, acceptance and meaning. Watching someone eat gross tasting jellybeans or a ghost pepper or a spoonful of cinnamon or suffer in more extreme ways, is a kinda but it's part of what keeps us alive. We are curious, even if the outcome could be bad. We often find uncertainty more than unpleasant certainty. At least if we look we know. There's a neurological basis for We become more attentive and alert when we are frightened, which makes Neurotransmitters like norepinephrine and dopamine are released when we are scared physically and mentally preparing us to take on a threat or successfully escape from it. Dopamine is famously part of the brains reward system. Dopamine is released in response to pleasurable things, like sex and food, but that doesn't mean our brains find disturbing things It's more interesting than that. When dopamine systems are inhibited in laboratory animals, they will cease to seek out food and literally starve to death; because fun? No. If food is placed in their mouths, they will consume it and express signs of satisfaction. Evidence like this suggests that the brain contains systems that motivate seeking, approaching and curiosity for their own sake. This has implications in the study of compulsive behaviour. Just because you want to do something doesn't mean you like it. The rush of chemicals into our brains and bodies when we are scared help us. When the threats are real. But if the threats aren't real, or if we are safely distant from them, and merely spectating, the same chemicals still appear, making us more attentive, more curious and making it more difficult to look away. In the early nineteen hundreds Eugene-Louis Doyen published incredible into stackable slices. The images are amazingly macarbe but yet utterly fascinating and a wonderful reminder of what we are literally made of. We often feel like we need an excuse, like Halloween or anatomy homework, in without coming across as a total weirdo. I mean come on if you look too interested in into, approve of or enjoy the gruesome. Funny enough, that guilt may very well fuel our desire to look in the first place. Sometimes pressure to not do something can to do that thing. It's called The Boomerang Effect. There are many different ways for things to boomerang: one is The Streisand Effect, when trying to suppress something unintentionally makes it more widely distributed. In 2003 Barbra Streisand sued to suppress a photo published online, as part of a One of the photos, the one she was trying to get rid of, showed her house. Within a month of the lawsuit going public nearly half a million people had flooded picture. Before the suit only six people had downloaded the image, two of which were her lawyers. In a similar fashion, social pressures disturbing things can make them more interesting, rarer and so a more valuable commodity, and also free, in that deliberately viewing them can demonstrate to ourselves and others that we are free and can do what we want. Disturbing things can also make us feel stronger, because their repulsiveness is a challenge. Glenn Sparks at Purdue University has studied the way terrifying films affect us. After watching them, viewers often feel stronger, satisfied that they didn't chicken out, that they made it through, they conquered something disturbing and were able to handle it. It's almost a form of practice. As Stephen &quot;We make up horrors to help us cope with the real ones&quot;. On the more negative side, following defeat on the faces of the rival team can make you feel pretty good. It's 'Schadenfreude', which means harm joy; getting pleasure from others misfortunes. Social comparison theory describes and predicts behavior like this rankings cause anxiety, we nonetheless a drive to seek out evaluations of ourselves in comparison to others, we especially that put us on top. Now, causing other people to be less well off sort of makes sense under this lens. If its relative happiness you're other people sort of works, it doesn't make you happier but compared to the people you are less annoyed. So... yay? Viewing scenes of anger and vengeance and violence that don't even involve us can nonetheless cause our own anger and aggression to burn off, as though they're being satisfied. It's called catharsis, a cleanser, a purification. Creating images and movies emotions might be grasping at low hanging fruit. A task beneath such logical Or, it might be a powerful demonstration of the fact that we have control, or at around how we feel. We condemn the actions of serial killers but nonetheless often like rock stars. Web sites like RedrumAutographs and Serial Killers Ink sell autographs, souvenirs, trinkets made by real serial killers. Some call it murderabilia. On a spectrum of to complete overwhelming obsession and fear, our relationship with the morbid is but it is under our control if we're aware of our actions. One of the most uses of the morbid is the facilitation of meaning, acceptance and empathy. In his book 'Everyone Loves a Good Train Wreck' Eric G. Wilson says that our attraction on some level a desire to experience someone else's suffering. Morbid curiosity is often about the Imagining what it would be like to be that to me? Could it happen to me? Empathetic feelings remind us that our and that we are fragile and in doing so closer together. Sure enough, the last out and hug the very first friend I could find wasn't a happy feel-good comedy. Instead, it was Louis Theroux's somber 'Extreme Love Dementia'. Viewing unpleasant things doesn't always make them less unpleasant but that's not always the point. Morbid also about acceptance. Remember, our brains are wired with motivations unpleasant things, because doing so to ignorance. Gawking at morbidity is often about asking why? There must be a reason, a meaning behind all of this. When tragedy strikes or horrors are neighbors describe the killer, we look for and confirmation that others feel the same that people are helping or making sure is served. Katelin Dodi the host of 'Ask a here on YouTube just wrote a phenomenal book 'Smoke Gets in Your Eyes and Other from the Crematory'. In the book she says &quot;accepting death doesn't mean that you won't be it means you will be able to focus on existential questions, like why do people die? And why is this Death isn't happening to you, death is happening to us all.&quot; That's heavy stuff but acceptance like that is one of the curiosity has to offer and don't worry, there's a funny side to all of this, or at least a funny side related to this and how morbidity helps us make sense of the world. A study in Finland found that children were four by their usual television programs if a parent was in the room. It surprised researchers in the &quot;Uh oh, Mom flinched theory&quot;. The idea is that to a young child almost but parents are older, they're wiser, they know what's normal and if they are scared of what's on TV uh oh... How we feel and how we feel about is to a large degree learned. There's a called the encryption theory of humor. It plays is in measuring who is inside and who is similar and who is socially too different. Jokes test what unstated common knowledge the teller and both share. So might we be morbidly curious for the same reason we Jokes assess underlying shared attitudes. Morbidity helps us asses shared underlying attitudes of an existential variety, morality and justice. Whether it's used for empathetic or morbidity and laughter may share a similar adaptive role. We are morbidly because we like to scream but more the yuk...and the yuk yuk overlap. And as always, thanks for watching.