I've always looked at that I've always It's so weird talking about pianists. first up we have the Israeli pianist famous Pathetique Sonata. Perhaps one of the most famous openings sense of drama, this great sense of why Daniel Barenboim is such a fine one of the great Beethovians of his time command but behind it a very very strong Beethoven, is about speech. It is about argument and that's very related to a In that short phrase so much is said and in a live performance even at his level would feel the a phrase that is incredibly important of pathos to it and he certainly in the second movement of the Pathetique, all movements in classical piano Barenboim is extremely adept at voice there's not just one melody going on Left hand And like many great pianists his movements he's not moving very much because he sense of economy and one thing that pianists that I'll show you today is move when they need to there's no Here's a pianist you might not have heard of but he's one of the greatest of all time. John Ogdon was a very troubled man. His incredible intensity. You feel it in the immediately and this is a very difficult control of tiny little movements like performances in the Great Hall of the In this section you can hear, like with The left hand as is very common in piano there's this incredible need for part impressionist music for leveling is that at the piano at the same time. These textures and that's obviously not a piece by any impressionist composer but not just about a wash of sound it's cake they have to be all proportioned difficult but Jon Ogdon does it. Forgot how slow it was. For me Martha one style of piano playing. You'll see in you've just heard that Martha Argerich fingers are quite flat and there's a lot will tell you arm is essential but arm and the way that a pianist will dependent on their body and the way they they're reacting to the harmonic flow of very strong forearms very very strong strong and her octaves especially in famous for a legendary but you'll notice Chopin like a little bit like this. A lot of wrist movement. Incredibly relaxed So much wrist movement and I look at it like that because I'm just not built would disconnect me from the keyboard.&quot; no doubting that the sheer mastery of close to perfect as it gets and when electricity is happening there's really When Stephen Hough the great British pianist, another of my favorites, was asked what's the hardest piece in the piano repertoire he painfully difficult and Geoffrey Tozer If you really wanted to look at one terms of pure economy and supporting the voice playing or voice leading and voice mentioned before, watch Geoffrey Tozer. Imagine doing your shoelaces with one on the other shoe with your left hand at and if ever you've had to play Chopin the keys, it's exactly like that hands at the same time and bringing out left hand and the right hand. He's got these beautiful beautiful big hands that are not too big because sometimes I so big that getting in between the black perfect classical pianist hands you can lithe, they're big but they're not too big As a pianist I tend to look at train are not always that keen on, but I Every generation there is a pianist who is Horowitz at one point, Rachmaninov before him, and now it's Lang Lang. There is no doubt people who dislike Lang Lang say about performance and his sense of brilliance Lang Lang has again enormous hands and Rachmaninov's, which is really characterized by an incredible see amongst the great pianists this Lang Lang is moving a lot more than criticise his economy because his like with all the great pianists the is interpretation what is music and what You can see in Lang Lang's playing the incredible He's sometimes back like this, he's sometimes forward. There's a lot smiling, sometimes he's even looking out to ascribe affectation to him I think a being Lang Lang. He's enjoying himself, the people watching him, and he's and there's nothing wrong with that. Perhaps the last of these pianists of often been called the last romantic In Cherkassky's playing there's this looking at a painter's palette and There are few occasions in piano playing when things your teacher tells you is don't be brutal at the piano and here is an I love this man's playing because and eccentricity about it, there's a bounce about it, there's a sense of showmanship about it. And it really takes me back to the of that era who were incredible It's like they're actually writing the last masters and the pieces were last gods. I love this man. I love him interpretation or I find it tasteless love what he's done for music. Oh my god he's my favorite. Piano playing isn't like golf or tennis nominate my absolute favourite it would understand he was called Nowadays it's de rigeur in a way to be a crossover pianist, to be able to do everything, to way before all of that. Gulda was an is playing his own composition which is yes that's Jim Morrison The Doors. And I find this man intriguing because giant. His Beethoven playing has all the and yet here he is playing with a fez on You won't see many pianists let alone any watch. I'll never wear a watch because it A ring such as my ring is fine it completely alters the weight and weight Sometimes I'll lean a little bit forward but really weight is absolutely Friedrich Gulda is everything a risks. There's a humor in his playing but the composer. Here is Yuja Wang a young superstar of Lang Lang has gone to incredible Yuja Wang is an athlete in every way. keyboard is extraordinary. Here we have Or in my case sometimes I do the jazz version. But Yuja Wang is doing it in octaves. An It's truly an extraordinary achievement. One of the key your hand in a strong position. In fact key you learn should not be C major but the hand. So you have a white note a note longer finger thumb under on a there so the distance is less long, black under the hand. Where octaves get gravity is all different. You have to but not always bigger hands are Yuja Wang does have big hands which is large person but she has big hands and She has the physical prowess and think it's something to be admired and like this and I marvel at them. I'm very excited by Michel Petrucciani this week. It's incredible when you think of he has a condition that causes short to be a challenge especially considering physicality of pianists before, but he is If you look at Petrucciani's hands I very much with flat fingers. A little bit like Thelonious Monk. If you of jazz piano you see what any classical background would, it would cause them to There's no one way to play piano and it will surmount all the obstacles put sense of time that he has here and by us referred to as rhythm and and inspiration not just for jazz pianists I love classical piano because there's tradition you've got the people behind You've got the young people coming up in You've got the sense of the music which have to respect the ink as the jazz our own special magic into it. But also sport is to try too hard. It's really the people like me who've been playing for without any false modesty that we don't that difficult and the better you get, encourage all people that if you want to rewarding but endlessly frustrating You might have trouble getting a home loan though.