Faith. This is the best, for [laughs] Hi, my name is Charlie Santore. I'm the owner of Santore I'm a safe technician, in Southern California. Today we're going to look at some clips on safecracking in films, and we'll tell you or whether they're garbage. [safe clicking] The clicking dial that They typically have a It's usually very, very smooth. If it was properly installed, it shouldn't be clicking. There's, like, one or two models of a junky safe that where the dial clicks. It's not really a real thing. The sort of dialing sequence in order to do so is not She's actually working backwards to how we typically would. The principle of it is that wheels are being searched for low spots. And what that involves and moving other wheels. And there's a certain repetitive sequence to doing that by people And she's not doing this here. Come on, Charlie. You can do this. There's a difference between and people opening things the way that we open them They're not going to be sitting around trying to manipulate a safe open. They would drill it open. Even opening a safe like this, even if you're drilling it, is also extremely difficult. You're not haphazardly You're not vandalizing something. When we open safes, the idea is it's like We're doing it in a The whole thing is a very academic study. [clicking] [safe clicks open] We're supposed to believe that final click is the But here, with vault locks and safe locks, you have to do a final turn to pull the lock bolt back. There's a certain amount of travel that then opens that lock. So she dials the combination, here she stops at 50, the fence drops, she's saying the safe is open, and he turns the handle. But the safe wouldn't be open even if the lock was unlocked because she didn't retract the lock bolt. This notion of somebody creeping around and manipulating a safe open, it does happen and it has happened, but nine times out of 10, it's sledgehammers and wedges or grinders or saws So, I want to be generous. It's 3. He's taken the fingerprint It could have been the that he pulled off of there. This actually broke my head a little bit. If you pull the print off with tape and you turn it over and put a ring on it and put Loctite in it, aren't you actually making it a cast of the inverse of the fingerprint? This safe is serious. Luis: How serious are we talking, Scotty? It's a Carbondale. Carbondale's a made-up name, but the vault door itself, I looked through hundreds and hundreds of photos of vault doors, and I'm pretty certain based this off of a very This is actually a real tool. This is a StrongArm MiniRig that's used for putting pressure when one's drilling. So that aspect of it We'll go do a quick job that where you don't have your So there's lots of times when trying to bend wires and make tools and sort of have to come up with something that we didn't have with us. Supposedly he's freezing it and it's going to expand What they showed us was the bolt work inside of the safe and the door pan. There's a big door pan. If he poured a gallon of water in there, it would spill out the bottom If by chance he froze it and the ice expanded, I mean, obviously water can expand. Glaciers expand over time. The thing about a vault door is, in this case, that's like sheet metal essentially on the back of the door. So the idea that that's going It would blow the back panel off before it blew the door off. There's nothing here. What'd you say? It's a suit. I opened up a couple of safes that were at a Blockbuster Video a while and there was Astroglide, So I don't know if a manager was having a fling with somebody, but that was pretty unexpected. On the more valuable side of things, we once opened a safe in an affluent part of Beverly Hills that people had recently The former owner was gone. There were Bulgari Krugerrands, GIA certificates. I mean, I can only imagine that it must have been a mid- But I think that people get traumatized when there's that much left because they're not expecting to have a moral conflict, sort of. You know, &quot;It's technically mine, but this obviously meant a great deal to whoever it was that It's nonsense, but the MiniRig is real. So I'm going to give it a 3. Scott: How would you for one day's work? Oh, my God. There are certainly a lot of safes that are known among people who do this kind of work that are very, very difficult to open. Very well-guarded locks. So, yeah, there is some truth to that. But of the world's living locksmiths, do I represent your greatest I can, with humility, say yes. The biggest myth I think or there's some maven magic touch to get the thing open. The four locks? You know what that is? Scott: No. It's a rotating randomization mechanism. If you mess it up again, it locks forever. You understand? Forever. Las Vegas is overrun with zombies. The idea that they're to come and manipulate open four locks on a vault door is ridiculous. They would just bring a coring crew. They'd bring coring stuff, and they're bore a hole and get it open. How long will it take you to open it? 30 minutes. The idea that somebody four vault locks in half [lock clicking] He's supposedly manipulating this open. He's not even looking at the dial, which is where he would be that he would use to manipulate it open. And there's also some hieroglyphs or some scrawling that he wrote on or he drew on the front of the door that really has nothing to do with what he would be doing in The doors are always heavy. You're talking about a There are compression systems that'd have spinning wheels. Not all vault doors have those. Some have handles. According to him, this When the vault door swings open, we see that there's actually only two vault locks and a time lock with five movements. I've never seen a five-movement time lock. I'm going to give it a 2 He's using an autodialer. There are such tools. I mean, they don't look like a vacuum cleaner hooked It's smaller, it's portable. You hook it up and it runs through, it parks wheels, and it runs The advantage is on some safes that have glass relockers in them or that might be problematic to drill or some people don't to open some of those safes. He's reading the paper at one point and he's sitting around. And that's, I mean, It's not an instantaneous process. The much earlier versions from, like, I think 10 to The newer ones are faster, and if one of the numbers is known, then it's even infinitely faster. A lot of times people set them up in their shop and they go off for the day and they come back the following day. We don't use an autodialer. People who are able to manipulate well can usually open something in 30 minutes, 45 minutes. The weird and wonderful thing now is a tape measurer. A tape measurer is very, very useful. You know, they're telling kids that they don't have to learn math and that there's no right answers to math. You can't do this job without being able to read a tape measurer, that's for sure. But no, as far as high-tech tools go, there's lots of different People have to think of their safes and their vault doors as You should have alarms, Make sure there's no outlets If it's a smaller safe, if you can stick it in a horrible position where it's hard to get to, sometimes under cabinetry, And, truthfully, the best safe is one that no one knows is even there. So that's why in-floor Wall safe, someone can just if they know that it's there. About a 4 or 5, 'cause Guard: My shoes are melting! Aah! The one element of this that is correct is that oftentimes when there's a vault lockout, a lot of vaults can be and there's a way to But there's not another lock on the inside that somebody would have to crack. Hey! Hey, that's my hearing aid! As far as a listening device goes, people do use amps. It usually has a little Or if it's a stainless thing you can hold it there, tape it in place, and it's got a little pot on it that the level turns up. And when you're dealing with a metal door, the sound actually Just to be generous, we'll say 3. The main issue is if he to cut that square, the gear that's right in back of there that supposedly he's moving would probably have been damaged, as well as any sort of There's lots of metal that comes off. As far as burglary goes, people use torches often. And even earlier on, safe technicians used to because there's certain metals that are very, very hard to drill. Typically, vault locks Safe locks are a little smaller, but they all work on the same principle, that there's a blocking point. And so that aspect of is actually keeping that aspect of it is very true. A lot of vault doors use yokes. There's pivoting yokes, but it's still a lock I would say, like, a 3.5. I will say that there are certain locks that do have a stepper motor in them that, to open them sometimes there's a gear that gets The only real issue that I probably have is they're using pneumatic drills. I doubt somebody would This comes closest to what we do on a regular basis. They've drilled into the Normally the glass would to the back of the door, so you wouldn't have this There's 2, 2 1/2, 3 You see them stick a borescope up. They find the cable loop. She sticks a wire in. She lassos the cable. The only real issue is that they're going to with people sitting on it. That's nonsense. That's not necessary. All they'd have to do is and clamp them right at the door, and that cable isn't going anywhere. It's a spring-loaded thing. We have to assume that of what kind of safe it was. Somebody leaked the information to her. Nine times out of 10, somebody knows that there and it's not necessarily the person who knew that it was they sell the information they pass it on to somebody else, like Paul Rudd coming into your house with an air mattress and Freon and a jug of water to It's, like, probably a 9 or a 9.5 as far as that goes. It's one of the best This is the heist that happened at 88-90 Hatton Garden, where a bunch of geriatric ex-gangsters cored the vault, and they breached it, and they cleaned out When this story broke, I think they're even using the exact gear that was actually used And my understanding is it happened over a three-day weekend. They wound up using a coring rig. They cored overlapping holes. When they realized that they they built a brace and they in order to force the The boxes obviously inside of this vault are not the same boxes that were inside the because the photos that we've seen was a hodgepodge of different different-sized boxes. In this one, they're much more uniform. This really, I mean, is, like, probably, like, a 9.5 or a 10 out of 10, really. Faith. This is the best, for [laughs] DMX, rest in peace, but all I'll say is that if DMX shows up at your house with a bazooka to open your vault, your problem's getting out of hand. It's so entertainingly stupid. We have to look at this. We're on the fourth They're shooting a bazooka through a wall. I mean, it's, we're going to give it a 3. Not based on anything technical at all. The tool that James Caan is using is real. The drill bit that James is about this big, OK? And the kind of bit that we typically use to drill open a safe if is about this big. But if you look at the proximity of how the wheels sit and the way the light is my sense is that this is There are many, many safes, older safes that utilize a punching In this situation, I don't believe that that's what would I mean, especially with the hole that big. The gates could have been dialed up. But, again, I think that trying to have authentic realism and trying to maintain a and trying to give the of what's actually real. I would have to give this, On a slow year, we open On a busy year, probably closer to 500. I get to maybe exercise and I get to help people in the process. So, I mean, I can't think Thank you very much for watching. If you liked what you saw,