[Waves crashing] Beneath the waves, the story of a young whale's is about to begin. But this is not Earth's ocean, nor is this This is the saga of "South Scrimshaw," Nathan O. Marsh. In this video, we'll follow the young whale's discover a tale of loss, and deep connections. And you can play the full game yourself and Now, the sea is calling... The journey of a lifetime begins in the comforting A newborn mind is getting their very first sanctuary. This is a male whale calf -- not the sort inside an egg. But this is no ordinary egg, and this is no And his extraordinary life is about to start. A thunderous call reverberates from the unknown his core. Yet the calf isn't frightened. He recognizes the call as his mother's. Instincts tell him to stretch his new body of the egg. A seam begins to open. Just one more impressive stretch, and the blinding light! Warm, tropical shallows flourish on the other To be completely technical, this is not an of external womb that local scientists call Like most mammals on our planet, the whales But we are no longer on our planet. At last, the calf enters the teeming waters. A bewildering array of life overwhelms his Tiny fish waste no time in gobbling flecks Foliage seem to react to our calf's presence, own. Even with his mother's reassuring call, He swims downwards, passing bizarre sponges Something gently puts a stop to his panicked Our calf is being carried to the surface. The upward motion is tender, like the steady The young whale has no idea what to make of At last, he breaches, and enjoys his first Like earth whales, he can't breathe underwater, Now, the calf finds himself in an empty expanse. In an ordinary season, this region would be Instead, the surface is woefully empty -- with Our calf stares at the peculiar island. The plant fronds continue to tenderly grasp None of his instincts are any help. Something moves atop the heap of plant matter. What is it? [bird call] Nothing good, the infant decides. The surface world is much too strange. Diving back under the surface, the poor calf He knows he needs to nurse, but can't locate The plants ensnare him once again, as if detecting But though only minutes old, our calf is still His mother's comforting call makes him stop. The remarkable truth finally dawns on our The mass of foliage is his mother, and she She is a Brillo Whale at a remarkable later astonishing future. A suspicious pile of rock lies on the sandy This warrants a closer investigation. Time for a deep scan. Just as we suspected -- it's a Stonedog. This unique animal lives in a shell of scavenged of Earth's beaches. The Stonedog is trying to hide, but is it The creature checks to make sure it hasn't Too late. Our calf is looking for fun, not food, but Our calf has grown curious and rambunctious. His tumultuous birth hasn't hindered his He enjoys lifting his fluke into the air --something including showing off. Light rain has begun to fall, a phenomenon A bellow from his mother reminds him not to Though eager for adventure, the little calf He excitedly shows his mother what he found The mother is trying to rest. But her love for her son is stronger than And this playing is not mere frivolity. For cetaceans like whales and dolphins, play as important training for catching food. But right now, there's only one type of His mother's milk will provide the nourishment that makes Brillo Whales so unique. In adult Brillo Whales, this tissue acts as symbiosis beyond anything here on Earth. The mother has chosen to bond with botanical the truth is far more interesting. Another deep scan will reveal how plant and Unlike the stone dog, the foliage and small body aren't just camouflage, but a way of Like a kind of living hotel, her body has take up residence, with a secondary layer But this bizarre anatomy leaves us with more Most notably -- what is the benefit of such To help us visualize the explanation, we'll known as a seabun. The seabun is a mascot that has long been however, it is not a real animal, even in The seabun myth originates from the early of an urban legend among the first scientists. Over the years, the joke took on a life of the seabun to be an actual animal. Yet the seabun will serve as a helpful example a whale. Underwater locomotion is energy intensive, can be a great benefit. Living on a huge whale also means predators In return, some animals that partner with Some Brillo partners will even feed directly sort of useful service. It might sound like too strange a partnership right here on Earth. Oxpeckers are birds that clean parasites off During the process, the oxpecker skims a marginal nutritional bonus. The large animals put up with this, as the But Brillos have taken symbiosis to new extremes, evolved specifically to live their lives around Sometimes, the two lifeforms become so interdependent such cases are thankfully uncommon. So, what kind of a relationship does the mother The answer has to do with photosynthesis. On her own, the mother has no way of extracting the time, and they share some of the sugars The tradeoff is that she now must spend a where there's enough sunlight for the plants Emerald Sea Slugs of Earth have a similar bodies. However, not all passengers are welcome. This is a Blood Trilobite. They aren't here to pay their fair share. The Blood Trilobite is a bandit, pilfering Fortunately, the mother has a personal bodyguard. The Vellum Worm has one duty in this ecosystem It's a busy job, as herbivores also seek A hungry fish thinks they've hit the jackpot. They're in for a rude awakening. The Vellum Worm has a neurotoxin-dispensing The misfortunate fish stands little chance. The Brillo Whale's ecosystem is called a But like much of the life on this planet, independently. Just how did such life come to this alien That's a question that will have to wait. Right now, our calf has discovered his mother's him. Such behavior is currently too risky -- for A sharp branch has punctured through her protective These kinds of complications can merge in The thorns are in danger of injuring her intestines. A sudden movement could mean the end. The mother does not know how long she will to reach the safety of the Brillo herd before A long journey lies ahead of them, but for together... To understand the voyage ahead, let's examine The dark blue line represents an ocean fault, the Chartreuse Archipelago. The first human explorers named each island where this documentary gets its title. Thus far, the mother and son have lived in Bay. But they have traveled all the way to here open ocean. It is the dawn of a new day. The mother swims under the surface, making The calf returns from surfacing, retreating He doesn't understand the purpose of her that the waters before them are deeper than A sound comes from the far distance. It's the call of another Brillo whale, approaching Our calf is curious about the new arrival. He spots a far-off speck, and watches it grow Even as the other whale gets closer, the calf Something about this other whale isn't right. The calf retreats further into the bramble The mother admonishes him in response, as His apprehension is understandable. For this Brillo whale is in a clever disguise. A false head is located on the creature's predator. The Brillo has no way to construct such a a unique symbiotic assistant. A Weaverlobe. These astute designers craft intimidating attackers. They spin the apparel from a material called While the animal kingdom is full of clever organism could create something so complex. Instead, it is likely that a colony of Weaverlobes In any case, this Brillo will be a powerful And she is not alone. Like our mother, she is looking to transport Our calf still isn't feeling very welcoming. And he's in for another surprise visitor. A strange, rocky shape approaches from behind. It's another whale. The armored Brillo is also a mother, and seems able to produce short honks. While the calf is uncomfortable, these traveling His mother nudges him from above. It's time to depart. The deep ocean awaits. Only fifty-seven kilometers now separate the This final stage of the voyage takes them mothers swim in defensive formation. With just three adults, however, they cannot Our youngster has done an admirable job keeping He too can sense there is no time to linger. Something is out there. A dark shadow has been following the pod since Though it has yet to attack, the unknown pursuer The calf no longer finds the other Brillos To his left, the stony mother and her child This calf seems just as uneasy as ours is. The exterior of the stony mother has reduced via some unknown internal mechanism. Even when in exposed waters, Brillos are full Our calf doesn't understand the stony mother's He turns his attention to down below, where Alongside a light from one of the documentary Since the light has already interrupted the discuss the technology used in the documentation The scientists who have come to this planet of wildlife. The inner-workings of these drones are quite with aquatic life without disrupting their Returning to the scene, the mimic mother swims She's uneasy about her role in the formation, angle. Our calf seems concerned as well. His mother reassures him with a hum. He is safe with her. But the shadow remains. It's a Penumbra Shark, the fastest predator It could close the gap between itself and There's no rush. Like the lightning-fast sailfish of Earth's dorsal fin. They keep it withdrawn -- until ready to In an instant, the shark has vanished. In a panic, the mothers break from their defensive Our calf glances down -- and sees nothing He is completely exposed to attack. Instantaneously, adrenaline floods his system. His brain goes into overdrive, now taking The monster's teeth shine like stoplights Our calf cannot possibly escape in time. But his mother has a strategy. Tension resides in her thorny branches, that One forceful snap, and her child is protected But the shark detects the shift - and changes is woefully exposed. Our calf looks on in horror. The sight is nearly too traumatic to process. It is only due to the vigilance of his mother The safety of the reef and the other Brillos The mimic mother pulls ahead of the pod. The stone mother follows, disoriented and Our calf is falling further and further behind. He does not wish to leave his mother, and He swims back to her, trying to coax her to But she is no longer moving. Saving her calf came at the sacrifice of reopening Not understanding, the child calls to his There is no response. She has done all she can to protect her son, Still, our calf prods his mother to move. At this age, our calf has no hope of surviving This could be the end... ...But another call echoes through the water. The stone mother is circling back. A new day begins on the Great Southern Reef. The stone mother has arrived safely... and Our calf drinks its fill of milk, recovering It is a moving case of social adoption. The stone mother's exterior has now deflated adult, quite small for her species. She has rescued our orphaned calf from certain as well. Physically and emotionally exhausted, the In the morning, they will wake to an entirely Warm sunlight illuminates the coral of the An inquisitive Bikili fish picks through the She's hungry, and thinks she's spotted The minute eyes of Greebles peer from the The Bikili fish has her work cut out for her But before she can begin, she is rudely chased A larger hunter is throwing their weight around. This is a spotted barnacle claw, and it will A single, forceful tug wrenches the entire The host Brillo Whale isn't satisfied with It needs something a bit meatier. Our young whale witnesses the unfamiliar spectacle Even after some time living on the reef, there The bellows of other Brillos reverberate through Though many are strangers, there is at least Though her appearance has changed considerably, Many eye spots now disguise her exterior -- likely And though he might not look it, our whale His body has at last developed the necessary But what kind of adult will he become? It's the most important question in any There are near unlimited combinations, and A common strategy is to imitate successful A young Brillo finds a prosperous grownup, Adults will sometimes take apprentice Brillos them with the materials needed to complete Not all body-plans are equally appealing. This old veteran is welcoming, but our whale It's an understandable feeling, although offer. More than half of Brillos choose to replicate intent on preserving her legacy. This botanical mass is made of the same plants But this Brillo has long passed, and is now Though our whale cannot bond with the decayed significance. Our whale needs to bond soon, but is having There is one expectation -- an adult with But despite repeated attempts from the youngster, on an apprentice. He is a lone male -- a bachelor looking for His latest attempt to find love is a dismal She seems confused by his little shadow, who It's the final straw -- our whale is no The intricacy of Brillo whale's Symbiotic of. A single adult human can have over 39 trillion a time. Not just germs, these foreign microorganisms The Brillos just take this concept further There are numerous species our whale could This reef is a never-ending menagerie of life. The reason for this abundance has to do with The Great Southern Reef is a fringing reef, Spire Coral is the reason for the unique structure. This distinct species starts small, then grows that other coral grows on top of. With time, the central mass is smothered, The tower then shatters, collapsing, with This endless cycle has created an environment Organisms like saltwater tadpoles thrive in safely hidden away, before emerging as mighty Well, relatively mighty. Time marches ever onwards. Our young whale has seen many forms of adulthood, Once again, he isn't interested. One afternoon, his fortunes seem to turn when the wild. The head of the pod calls to our youngster. He doesn't respond. This adult is a brilliant huntsman, partnering species who sees him as a pack member, and It's an incredible strategy, and this adult But our whale still isn't moving. All his attention is on the Chowper. His trauma is too severe to partner with a He flees. Over the coming weeks, our whale's mental It is crucial for his survival that he starts The agitated youth can sense that time is More adult Brillos come and go. This camouflaged whale is one of the more It is covered in octopuses that have linked change their colors in unison. Octopuses in our oceans have similar color comparison to the color changing abilities But the time has come at last to answer the so similar to life on Earth. One might assume the answer is convergent species evolve analogous features due to comparable But this answer is not sufficient. The true reason why Brillo whales look so a common ancestor. English scientist Francis Crick is notable of DNA, but for his theory of 'Directed This hypothesis holds that life on earth might ancient interplanetary civilization. While there is little evidence such a thing an idea was eventually put into practice on Numerous barren planets were intentionally Isolated across lightyears of space, these of new life. This camo whale is a perfect example of how He hails our whale as he swims past, but the The youngster is reaching a point of crisis. His innate curiosity dulled, he no longer Even the dazzling bioluminescence of Lamplighter But perhaps not all is lost. Another youth has caught a Lamplighter, and And for once, our whale doesn't flee from Instead, he seems excited to have made a new His sudden sociability is unexpected, but whales can't pass partner organisms to their Whereas an adult could give him a permanent Perhaps all our whale really needed was a The two whales spend the rest of the day in Night comes to the reef. But our whale is up past his usual bedtime. He's out with a pod of other adolescent They're here for a rare spectacle. Specks of light from Lamplighter fish illuminate This bold mating display makes them easy to care about the young whales gobbling them It's an example of a strategy known as 'Predator such high numbers, they know there's a low have their fill. Completely full and surrounded by glowing spending a night with friends. A new dawn, seemingly the same as any other. But today, the tide is particularly low. There are all sorts of interesting things . . If one isn't concerned about getting There's no more time for exploring. Trying to escape the dropping water level, the trenches. One waterslide later, and he is unceremoniously He's now out past the Great Reef -- a dangerous And he's not alone. Something is watching from within a nearby It's a solitary Brillo whale. Our whale swims closer, although something This recluse has been exiled from the herd. Banishment is rare in Brillo culture, and turned deadly. Years of painful isolation has made him truly Our Brillo says hello once more. Still no response. A helm made from a shark's jaw indicates weapon hides in a watchtower atop his armor. It's a Vorpix Octopus, and it senses death He acts as the exile whale's hunting partner. Normally he'd assist in ensnaring prey, whale, he prefers to watch. Nothing like a front-row seat. A strong emotion overpowers our whale. Is it fear at last? Evidently not. Instead of fleeing, he's playing and calling But perhaps even more remarkably, the exile After decades of loneliness, this sudden compassion He strains to remember a Brillo song that It's not quite the show the octopus was But he seems to have an idea. At over four centuries old, this cephalopod amount about Brillo biology. Swimming closer, he offers our Brillo a piece One swift motion -- and our whale's life Now that he has bonded with a partner species, in remarkable ways. But for now, the first phase of the documentary When we next check in with our whale, he might -- but that won't be for quite some time. That concludes all the chapters of "South But creator Nathan O. Marsh is planning more In the meantime, the full game is free to as the full experience contains more worldbuilding There are also links below to support the media. As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.