You might get very hungry after watching this. I'm at one of the biggest airline catering center here. Look at this, 40,000 omelets made every day. With Chef Disha here, ready to go inside, visit a catering, but first thing first, put protective gears on, because I was told the hair fall is the number one complaint for airline customer. So we need to go into the air shower. This is an air shower. air shower. It's like a shower without the water. Sam, now we are in the main corridor of our production area and the line up of the chillers to our left-hand side is for our preparation section, whereby we bring all the ingredients and raw materials after they arrive into our storage and we bring it up here for processing, washing and sanitization. So these are chillers like all these fresh vegetables and all these get chilled inside Absolutely. After they arrive in the building from the truck. And we have specific vegetable preparation section, butchery section, seafood section, and so on. Welcome to our production. Wow, that is huge, huh? This is the main hot kitchen, so this one is mainly for business class and first class and all the class that is cooking from here. You see how we make the omelette because the first class is a class we need to make omelette. Yeah What is different for Qatar Airways, the economy we do fresh omelette, we never do frozen. I love this invention. It's like a rotating omelette-making machine. Every portion gonna be exactly the same because we remeasurement Let me try to flip an omelet here. Oh, that's fun. So how many omelettes you're making every day here? It's about It's about 40,000, yeah. Oh my gosh, how many eggs? That would be 40,000 omelettes. So we use about almost 8,000 liters. 8,000 liters of egg yolk. So you know most of the airlines they try to avoid doing flying food but for us we have some secret way to do it so that's why we're doing it. I've seen like things just pop and then like the oil is down there deep frying. This is the Arabic Masi, this is Fatteh, right? Yeah. ? They gotta be spinach, yeah. You can see very nice golden crispy. Yeah, it's actually a little bit bigger now after they fried It's like a 60,000 piece today Look at this Wow, what a nerve it is this! So this one is chickpea, we buy chickpea for hummus, you know. Ah, making hummus, oaky. We make from fresh chickpeas. That's the boiling procedure. Sorry, yeah. But before that, we soak overnight, yeah. Overnight? yeah. That's my favorite rice steak. There's a lot of steak here And do you know this is not a normal steak, this is a back angus. Black Angus thing. Yeah, from Alaska. I'll take them home. So this one is very juicy and tender. We get fresh from Baskar. So they're ready to be pan fried. That's correct, but we need to season it first with some salt. So for the steak, right? How do you cook it to medium medium? Well, well done This steak we cook just medium rare in order for the crew to make sure that they can eat more time on the plane. I agree. I get it now. So you just cook them to medium rare as a base. And then if passenger want morely cooked, they can put in the oven. I see. That's correct. That's correct, yeah. I smell good. He's cooking the beef burger, right? Yeah, this burger we do like daily almost 30,000 piece a day. 30,000 piece. Yes, we start from last FIFA when we do a burger because we want to do something with football We start to use a lot of burger and people like it This is fresh Norwegian salmon. They come daily from Norway. So he's making like a pan-seared salmon, yeah That looks good, that's an Omega 3. So we program every day from Norway by our own cargo. Like a tire with cargo plate. That's right, my daily clinical hour I've never seen a machine doing this. This is chicken bacon. Like chicken bacon, yeah. So what is it doing? Thank you very much. Grilled chicken bacon. Yeah. OK. Oh, can we see the end result? sure sure. It's how they come. It's amazing, the machine knows how to create it itself, just like that, and bacon is coming out. And now they're fully cooked, yeah. Nice! This one is one of the classic French dish, the beef bougainvillea. Like, you know, it's like a stew and they're cooking with mushroom inside. It's mouth-watering because the beef is very tender here. So they're cooking the sauce. This is like curry. So they make a sauce first, and then they're going to put the meat inside. Oh, it's like a casserole. Yeah. What was in the middle? The stuff I like about Wizarding Kitchen at this scale is you need like a spade. It's almost like a weapon, right? You need this kind of stuff to scoop it around. You know, it's not like you're home cooking in a little tiny pot. You just need a huge tool like this. This is dao, I know, this is dao. This is some sort of tandoori or curry. It's called batikasal. You know the battered chickens? Tikka, butter tikka sauce. The only thing perhaps you don't get to is smell the food. It smells really nice actually. It makes you hungry already at the beginning. Earlier I was thinking the guys were marinating the cauliflower. This is an Indian dish, what is this? that's Tandoori cauliflower. Cauliflower. Cauliflower. Tandoori. Tandoori cauliflower. We're gonna bake it afterwards, yeah. Baking. Wow. Vegetarian meals, I guess. It's a beautifully nice colour. There are so much machines. I have no idea what this machine does chef? This one is high pressure cooking kettle. high-pressure cooking cattle So this one we cook like a big volume of mashed potato, polenta, soup and everything to make it faster. Well, this is one of my favorite cuisine, right? Mashed potato. This is how they make them. Five tons of potato go into the boiler every day, and then they make them into mashed potato. What's this thing here? it is lamb shank Cooking lamb shank. Yeah. Yeah, so we cook like a few hours, yeah? Oh yeah. Oh yeah? And then this one? It's a creamy polenta. Creamy. Creamy polenta, making polenta cake. That's right, you put some cheese and everything inside. The theatre is huge here. So far, we've seen the food's been cooked. But here, there's a bit of food tasting. Tell me what it is about. So this is what we call internally as a first line of defense. As you've seen, we divide our cooking tasks into different cooking stations, and there is a senior chef that's responsible for each cooking section. And that senior chef, after cooking of each batch of product or food, he or she is responsible to make sure that the taste and the feel and the look completely fits and matches with our specifications. For food safety and security, we do not allow any of the staff to taste the food while they're cooking. There is only one centralized, authorized location for all kitchen staff to taste the food, which is here, at the centralized tasting table. Cookin' test, cookin' test! You can't do that at home, like cook and taste. Correct. They come here. Correct. Or a supervisor to check all the quality. So after cooking the food is going, you will see everything have barcode. There's a barcode. OK. These are the chira, pulao rice. Yeah. Yeah, this one did not put out live, and then we go to the corpus. The cold process the chiller to store. This is interesting. It's like a conveyor belt for food So we know exactly where the food go and for what. After 90 minutes, after they come back from the cold storage, we will just cover, just to make sure there's nothing going inside. So we will put a barcode in to make sure that it's correct. We're looking at all these trays going to cold storage, right? Yeah. How many trays you produce a day go to storage? So at the moment capacity is about 50,000, but we're doing about 35 to 40,000 at the moment. That many! 35,000 to 40,000 trays per day! But you can imagine one meal is like four or five components, it's like five, six, three. You have the sauce, you have the rice, you have the chicken to make the tandoori. that's right. So Sam, welcome to our cool kitchen where we make all appetizers and fresh salad and everything. Come, say it in Thai. Oh my God, that's how the homeless was made. They're squeezing the homeless. I remember this. These are all the short GCC flights. When you fly from Doha to Dubai, the economy, you get one of these. They're making the green one. What's the green one? The pesto hummus, we make the pesto hummus. The pesto hummus so they have a guideline here using the ipad that's right and this is the sample so you can't go back What we call put in sample. Golden sample. Yeah. So all of them should be look like that. I see. There you go. Just throw me into the grinder. This is the sausage making machine here. You see how fast it comes out? It was like 120 sausages a minute. After all the savory stuff, now some time for sweets with pastry chef Harish here. So please welcome to the bakery and pastry area. All the premium products are produced here. For example, here, this is one of our premium garnishers for business class. It's been filled using this machine here, and then we glaze it using our raspberry or pistachio and chocolate. So this is an automated process, semi-automated, so that may help. I love this machine. I love this one. This is feeling the cream inside. So that you get the right consistency. For example, you can see here. So once it's filled, it looks even and you have the filling all over. So there's no single spot where you won't find. No cream. The premium croissants and danishes are handmade and we do have our economy croissants which are machine made as well. So we produce for economy, we produce approximately 26 to 28,000 croissants a day. And when it comes to premium croissants, we produce around 5,000 which are handmade with lots and lots of love. That's it, look at that. So now it will be hand cut and then trayed for us to bake. Now we are making cheer butter using this dough. So this is usually served in our business class along with our soups and salad before it's been served. So this funny machine, this does the chocolate tempering all day long. So 24 hours, we've been tempering the chocolate every time. So we have a dosey chocolate, we have white chocolate, and then we do have our dark chocolate. So as you can see here, Eileen is making the chocolate garnish. So she makes one of the amazing truffles as well. Say hello, Eileen. Yeah, so she's one of our truffle makers, not the troublemaker, truffle maker. So this is one of the garnishes what we produce. It looks like now the next step is portioning into the casserole, into the trays, right? And then this is what? Chicken? Where's your chicken? Chicken chettinad, jeera rice, and they'll be putting the lentil out there. And these dishes come out from this machine. So Sam, if you see, the lentils from here are coming out. And then they go and move to this table for forcing of the casserole. Ah, so you order the lentil. Yes. Because the lentil go with the chicken and rice. Correct. Right. That's how it works. Yeah. So now we're at one of the last process. Now they're building the trays and putting them in the trolley. So the catering folks are saving the best to last for first class caviar They go into a little cooler like this with ice inside and the caviar is inside. And this is strictly for first class stuff. On today's QR934, Doha to Manila, departure time at 18.30, we will use four catering trucks to load four portions of the galley. We call them R1, R2, R4, R5 galleys. So, as you can see behind me, our loading bay number 28 is R1 galley, which is basically loading for business class galleys. And let's go take a look. This is kind of a chiller inside the refrigerator Absolutely. So, as per our requirement, when the trucks are loaded with fresh galley to leave the loading bay, the inside of the truck, the temperature is controlled between 8 degree and 10 degree. Um, because this is for food safety and ensure freshness of the food ingredients as well. Full operation going on about 60 trolleys gonna load on to a Boeing 777 300 yard departure to Manila Before any food cart is loaded, it puts a dry ice slab on top of the cart to ensure the freshness and food safety. OK. So, that compartment on top, that's for dry ice. This is what he's doing, like... Right now. Keep it cool. Keep it cool, yes. Wow. to Keep it cool, yes. I didn't know that. These are, I haven't seen this kind of trolley. There's a little like a vent here. What exactly this is? This is called an air-through system because vent will allow the cold air from on-board daily chiller to pass completely to coincide the To go inside? Yes, to ensure the freshness and safety of the food So this is the back side of the trolley, the trolley will pass the air through. That's correct. Here it comes A full trolley load of food. What a day! We've seen the food we've produced now, all inside a little chart, and going to Manila. What an experience! So after a whole kitchen tour, here are some of the first and business class food on presentation. But what's special on Qatar Airways, you ask? It's Qatari food, right? I remember three weeks ago, I had a beautiful dish called Chicken Mash Kool. That was created by the chef here. Thank you, thank you so much. Chef Nouf. It's our traditional dish here in Qatar, it's called Mashkhoul. We made it from yellow rice and white rice and with our special spices. Also, here we have our special dish on the board. It's called Machboos chicken. It's with our special spices. Everything, it's in-house with the chicken roll, with our special spices. Also, it's called. Mabouch, it's coming with the rice. I'm looking forward to try that on my next Qatar Airways flight. Thank you. Most welcome. Thank you. So, after seeing all the food, you may wonder how the catering centre are treating the food wastage from production. Here's the answer. Whoa, that's a lot of food wastage inside there. There's a lot of food. So, you have a way to treat this waste? Correct. Correct. This is one of the brand new equipment which is called a biodigester. So all the organic matter which comes from the kitchen, so it comes to this machine and then this converts into water. The end product of this machine is water. And the total time period for conversion is from 12 hours to 15-16 hours. After 15-16 hours, all the foodstuff was gone. All the foodstuff which has been converted. Converting to water! Don't miss our next episode. Qatar Airways is showing their operations centre for the first time. There are lots of things to be seen and explored. Thanks for watching today. Boom.