We want to tackle one of the trickiest questions What does it mean to identify This brings up Native Twitter, aka the only reason I ever use Back when everyone who's a real Indian I was like, okay, whatever. But then. Then I saw Buffy Sainte-Marie being called a Pretendian or someone who claims to have American community, But, Buffy? in the first episode, [Starwalker by Buffy Sainte-Marie] that spoke to the issues while also advocating which became a main So does advocating make you Native, or something else entirely? Well, buckle up because This is A People's History Tai Leclaire. How many times my great grandmother Or, I took a DNA test. I'm Native, too! Well, for Natives, we've This idea of a unified Native American identity all this begs the question: to be Well, every tribe counts Some used descendancy records. Others use blood quantum. This information was collected of the American government's 19th and early 20th centuries. Blood quantum specifically where some tribes land divided up to give individual their own slice of land. This gave way to divide our blood and determine That's why some tribal nations which grants citizenship who can trace their lineage or maternal side But in the role of identity isn't everything. Because citizenship, quantum, is again Our historic systems did not revolve around but through cultural Marriage, adoption, long term or even practicing such as learning the language, or any tribal cultural values, grant acceptance into a tribe. While our old practices still exist to a certain citizenship standards when legal identity, biological traits instead of Does biology alone determine a Native American? No, of course not. Now, take home in popularity, many Americans American" markers So does that mean we can use to determine Do not pull an Elizabeth Those genetic markers to Native Americans. And even if they were, of which tribe you're DNA has no connection to any Blood quantum, implies a trackable lineage For instance, if tribal governments is a member of the community the people not belonging to that tribe After all, governments for more reasons Citizenship determines to tribal lands, and sometimes per capita the payments equate from tribal enterprises. payments to tribal members Considering that one of four live below the poverty line, who is entitled So while citizenship the economic and political it is not the determining factor Okay. Are you still with me? Because this is where it gets On one hand, who are not connected to their community, language yet have the political status On the other, there are people who identify because they were raised practicing language and even currently but do not meet blood quantum But let's bring in an actual Hollie Mackey an associate professor at North Dakota State To help us understand Professor, what identifying as a Native We have to to really be intentional and be clear about it in terms of how are you identifying But when we're talking about Indigenous identity, about a very distinct set of language characteristics, characteristics But we also don't We don't want to just open up if you feel Native, I think that there's some due that has to go into that if you're questioning if you're questioning a community, you have to do So let's talk about why we see this In 1998, Phillip J, Deloria wrote a book titled This book outlines of non-Natives portraying to, well, He uses the Boston Tea Party of this impulse to impersonate while participating He argues of the United States, we had European settlers themselves from their roots So a misrepresentation of is actually what informs early American identity. The act of playing Indian American culture while portraying to be extinct Perpetuating these myths of how playing Indian harms But from our treaty rights we're finally receiving for social mobility. However, we're finding that are actually being occupied who are claiming to be Native. Not only does this rob a qualified but it robs and voice of an authentic In a lot of these cases, into stereotypical depictions to support their claims. Tanning beds, name changing, and the consumption attire, all to give the perception All these things and just embolden The legacy of the media has trained non-Natives with straight black hair and have names But in reality, anyone. Professor Mackey, I mean, people who are non-Native to be Native, particularly need the humility to step back and say, And I don't have that patience But when it comes to these unnecessary attacks I don't think that that And so trying to model that you can have without a turning into an argument, without it conflict is going to be But, you know, ultimately intentionally, They are hoping And so for those people, we thank you for your time Professor Mackey. So where do we stand now? According to the U.S. census, from 2010 to 2020, who identify with having went from 5.2 million in 2010 in 2020, with most who are self-identifying This 87% increase identifying as Indigenous The reality the surge of self-identifying fertility rates to 2016 Look! It's clear that there's some pretending Like Sacheen Littlefeather, Maria Louise Cruz. who used her platform representation in Hollywood. But according to her sisters, then fabricated parts and identity such as growing up in poverty But it's also important to remember the trickle down real laws, teaching thought leaders on the many important issues So what about Buffy I mean, yes, CBC reports Beverly Santamaria. And sure, she was born but she didn't make a meaningful connection she was officially adopted into the Piapot Nation in Canada. And even if it was under false it's only up to the Piapot nation. If they want to At the same time, we have to because she did not have to do That's what's so frustrating. Anyone can be an ally of Native Americans, space and resources Because when we enter a space, you've been learning We have parents who survived We're connected with our land. We might know And if we don't, We as Natives in our community If we don't know we certainly know People can call us or black or the infamous apple Red on the outside. And to those who antagonize which tribe we're from, Thanks for watching. We've love seeing the response to the show PBS would love to get So we put together a short And don't forget, you can check out of Native American or on your local PBS station. Links to both Thanks. Guys, that's a wrap! That's a wrap.