- Flying to Europe today, a (mellow music) I just receive a message on Instagram from my friends saying, flying TAP, it's one of Let's see how it goes. This is really weird. I came down to the United Club, as you can see the whole lounge is dead. There is no lounge attendant, but the door is open so I came down. And, like a ghost lounge here. And no food, no drink, no service, no people around, strange. I felt like this is and there's no one around. And I'm a little scared honestly, in case something happen or serial killer, I Right now, for international travel sadly the, Polaris and this There isn't any lounge at an international terminal. There's a bit of hot All this COVID verification, it's holding up the boarding. It's actually their first flight back to San Francisco after 10 months. First flight in 2021 for TAP (upbeat music) - [Announcer] Please, crew is - There you go. - [Sam] Okay, finally cleared to board. All right, thank you so much! - Have a good flight! - [Sam] See you next time, bye! Hey, hello (speaks Portuguese)! - Hello, how are you? - [Sam] Here's mine. - Please step in. - [Sam] Okay, thank you very much. - Going to be the seat on your left. - Okay, thank you. Oh my God, I have the worst seat ever! 'Cause there's no window here. I have to lean forward to look out. So this is 9A, the last This is not recommended So there's a seat in I manage change to 8A here. The only problem here, this seat has better views, two windows. The only problem it's, to my neighbour, if you So the window seats are the (upbeat music) - Are we going to be where we are going to be? - [Sam] I hope, I surely - Thank you, that's what we needed! - [Sam] How's the seats like? - Oh, great! - [Sam] Pretty good? - They are very clean because and we clean- - [Sam] You wiped down? - Wipe then down, all the way, yes. - Actually, I'm going to move over there. - [Sam] There's actually a, - I know. - [Sam] You should come here, so you can have the whole - That would be nice, you can sleep. - [Sam] Now she's taking this row here. And now you have the whole - [Passenger] On the - There you go. I'm actually making a video. So I'm making video on this flight. So it was for my, channel Yeah, yeah (chuckles). So, actually I believe this in the first few rows. So if you happen to be there's a little bit more leg room in the first section - Joanna. - I love this! Isn't this is like a Christmas jumper, the blue and green, the green one? I love it! Everyone's wearing black suites, and then you have the best one, right? - I have the colour (chuckles). (Pilot speaks in Portuguese) - My name is Pedro Malta, I'm captain with TAP Air Portugal. And I'd like to introduce my crew. Captain Pedro Venancio. - Hello. - And also, First Officer Ricardo Baiao- - Hi, hello. - We are almost ready to Today our flight time will And we'll, after take off, fly north until the north of Canada. Then all the Atlantic So or flight level will (plane engine roaring drowns out pilot) - [Sam] TAP is the first to have A330neo? So what exactly is all this 'neo' about? - [Captain Pedro] We can save some fuel, and also we fly faster So it's much more comfort aeroplane to the passengers and crew. - [Sam] What's your - It's definitely the - [Sam] Oh, I saw it on the sticker on your suitcase, right? - [Captain] Yeah, yeah. - [Sam] Have you flown the TriStar? - Yeah, I flew it back in 1998. - [Captain Pedro] We are now just waiting for our launching information from the ground staff, more five minutes, and we'll be ready to Enjoy the flight, thank you. - So we're finally on our way after 50 minutes behind schedule. And hopefully, the subsequent flights will run smoother after this first flight. (upbeat music) (Air Traffic Controller (plane engine roars) (mellow rendition of Auld Lang Syne) - Here we are, cruise Flying in the Midwest, heading to Canada. Where I started my career in Mozambique, in East Africa back in 1994, where I got a job as, bush pilot. So I went to the north of the country. For two years, I flew a flying under difficult So as you remember, we I used to organise all the, school stuff, educational stuff to help the kids. And to, supply the kids and all other countries. So, we put all the cargo and with the smaller aircraft that we hired in South Africa. We flew all the stuff, right to supply all the kids - Would you like to try this - [Sam] This is Portuguese? - [Flight Attendant] Yes it is. - Sparkling wine, okay, yeah, sure. (wine glass clinks) Just got my, glass of wine, and the service definitely is very slow. I don't know why it took The food and the drink, the wine, are probably the best thing The food are very good. The portions are good. The Portuguese red wine go - [Flight Attendant] This one? - [Sam] Yeah, all right, thank you. - [Flight Attendant] Would - [Sam] No, I'm good. - Can I get you dessert? - [Sam] Yeah. - And, you should try our Porto wine. - [Sam] Oh, Porto wine from Portugal. - Yeah, it's from Porto (indistinct). - [Sam] Thank you. - Enjoy! (gentle piano music) - It's been a long day, so I'm going to take a nap. This seat here, same as any 121, your feet go inside a box. 'Cause all the 121 staggered, essentially it's 242, So again, a little bit but, it's long enough for my feet. I'm six foot, one. So it's long enough for me. (mellow rendition of Auld Lang Syne) - (speaks Portuguese) Here we are, cruising at flight level in Santa Maria airspace. And our landing in Lisbon will be, in about one hour and 30 minutes. That's the most Western point in Europe. As you can see over there, it's our anchor. (mellow rendition of Auld Lang Syne) - [Autopilot] 200, 100, 50, 40, 30, 20. Retard, retard! Seven. (plane engine humming) - Thank you very much! - [Sam] Thank you, - [Crew] Bye, thank you! - So that was such a weather was great. And they have a bridge, just in San Francisco. What a coincidence! So, is TAP one of the worst in Europe? Well, I will say TAP is actually one of the most affordable It's one of the cheapest airline. If you look at the fare, if you buy in advance 14 you'll found very low fare. The planes are brand new. In fact, they ordered They were expanding fast pre-COVID, going to, not only South However, COVID hit them really hard. And lots of planes they have is, currently parked on the ground. So the timing isn't great for TAP, but I can see TAP is, developing and rebranding themselves, between Europe and the U.S. That's the key market there, after. So San Francisco to Next week, I will be visiting one of the most challenging airport in Europe, or perhaps in the world. This is in Funchal, There's lots of variable, which can cause you to go around and maybe unsuccessful to land. So let's take on this flying (bold orchestral music)