Song Lanqian, you are pregnant Dad told you to get out of the Su family How is that possible? I haven't had sex with anyone The doctor's medical certificate is out You are 3 months pregnant, get out of here I'm not disappointed. It hasn't been calculated How can I get pregnant? I was wronged I'm not leaving Song Daxing You see you are shameless unmarried pregnancy The face of the Su family I was lost by you Dad? I don't have a Sulan heart Your belly is too big If the outside world knows There is such a shameless woman in our Su family How did Huang Hai feel wronged in the upper class? It's You What have you done to me? You do something like this How dare you slander the code word Our Su family doesn't have a vulgar woman like you Get out of here How pitiful! Your mother was not loved by her father during her lifetime You too. From now on, I will be the only one in the Su family Hahahaha Ha ha. Hahaha I will definitely investigate what is going on. Are we here this time to find Daddy? How many times has Mommy told you? You don't have a daddy I'm not a three-year-old kid. No daddy But it popped out of a crack in the stone? But Mommy doesn't know who your daddy is Find Xiaoguo's father You should be able to find out how you got pregnant that year I'm looking for daddy That's my twin brother. Back then, your brother was stolen by his bad grandfather Lost I don't know how he's been doing all these years There we go. Brother, don't worry. Beckham has autism. It shouldn't be far Beckham should be scared by now Find him ASAP Why does he look like me? He is mommy Lock down here now Okay, we'll send more people immediately Lock down the scene Zhong Nanqing I didn't expect you to dare to arrest this little wild boy We cut ties long ago You have no right to punish me Dad is right An unknown illegitimate child I don't know which gangster I was born with Bad woman, I'm not a little bastard And who is your father? Is it a puppy on the side of the road? How dare you hit me? Don't want to be beaten Keep your mouth clean Enough, I came to you today to find a relative for you Why don't you let Auntie Sun marry if there is such a good thing? A man in his 50s is of course I'm really not at ease We Su Shi are now facing difficulties As long as you marry Mr. Liu Mr. Liu will immediately inject capital into me So you go home right now and drive for you I will not marry It's up to you. Somebody catch this little bastard for me Xiaoguo, hide Ahhh You stole one of my children 5 years ago Now you don't want to take it away again Mommy Ouch. Shameless thing Look, God, I can't help you Look who this is. Xiaoguo, why did you get there? The child is looking at your child. Xiaoguo Let go of my dad Daddy save me Let go of me! That guy looks just like me. He must be the brother Brother found little sister Mommy wait for me I'm still here. Hey you Bad guy, let me go Beckham see clearly I'm dad dad Dad save mommy Mommy went to Su's house I'm going to find mommy OK Go to Susu boy Hello Xiaoguo was taken away by Su Hongrui Hurry up and go to the Su family to save people Received Where is the car you prepared for me? In the parking lot It's a black Mercedes I'll unlock it for you remotely now. Brother has Beckham to get in the car first Hey, hey, who's that? Hey, hey, hey. Do you know whose car this is? You car thief Get down here! Stop him! Come down Come down quickly Damn Su Hongrui Still want to stop me Hey I rely on this to be too cruel to the master Brother, I'll call the police Go find mom Mi I want mommy Go to Su's house first I see. Hahaha Su Hongrui You let my son go Mr. Liu, this is my daughter How about this little face This thing drives Enough, hahaha. Come and serve Mr. Liu Su Hongrui You can also sell your daughter for glory I raised you Gotta make some money That's right. elder sister You take a mute child Who would want you? Mr. Liu looks up to you because he looks up to you The mute guy has always been clever Why is it so quiet today? Could it be that Xiaoguo was frightened? Auntie is right You have a little wild seed with a wild man I will definitely not marry a good family in the future You see Mr. Liu is strong and wealthy You will be happy if you marry Do you want such a blessing for your daughter? Mr. Liu likes you Hurry up and pour tea for Mr. Liu I'll come over if you let Xiaoguo go You sit If this stick hits your son I'm afraid his life is at stake Sister, you said you should run over now. It's still Liu Ma's stick. You think about it. Don't act rashly Come over soon hit hit hit hit beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat hit hit hit beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat hit hit hit hit hit hit Do you still want your son? OK Ahhh Mr. Liu, I asked him to apologize to you. Still broke my hand Does apologizing work? Mr. Liu Then you want to Then let him kiss me mouth to mouth Hahahaha Didn't Wenjiang hear it? Go soon Daddy's right here Go save mommy Sultan Green didn't you hear? Go soon Just a kiss I won't ask you for a piece of meat You I don't know how many men have come across me What are you pretending to be reserved? Sister, you have thought it through This little wild master is still in our hands Hey These little hands are so tender Sorry. Mr. Liu, I recently had a thyroid tumor You shouldn't mind. What's going on? It's unlucky to wait for your daughter to recover Let's invest in a fit Hey! Hey Mr. Liu Hey Mr. Liu Wait until he gets better I'll put it to your bed myself. I'll rescue Xiaohu later You must pay the price Nie Ning, you did it on purpose Two days. I'm sorry, you are going to sleep on the road poor tomorrow. Dad, we have to teach him a lesson Let him know the importance What if he doesn't recover in two days? OK Break this little beast's leg How dare you call me? Mr. Huo What do you want? Take the opportunity to run away Are you sure you want Mr. Huo to see it? You kidnap children You don't have to worry about that. I warn you Don't you dare play any tricks Mr. Huo Mr. Huo, is there anything wrong with your visit? I'm here to invite Miss Su to the Huo family Mr. Huo, are you mistaken? My daughter has just returned to China. How can I know a big shot like you? My son has a future Then you should be looking for my youngest daughter An Ying She is in the country all year round She should be the one who knows your son Mr. He This is what Young Master Huo was looking for Comfortable with my little girl Why don't I remember knowing Young Master Huo? Young Master Huo is Mr. Huo's sweetheart Are you going to serve him? Mr. Huo, just ask me to send someone to say it. Why, Laujia, come here in person? You went to the airport? Right. You came from the airport. Mr. Huo, when do you think it is more appropriate to go to Huo's house? Right now. Ok ok ok Aya, get in the car with Mr. Huo right now Ah! Why haven't my people yet? I have to find a way to delay the time, Mr. Huo I was at the airport just now. It's your brother. He's the car thief What a car thief! How dare you steal Mr. Huo's car? No matter what you say Are you about to kill and set fire to someone? I don't have it. Mr. Huo's style is indiscreet How could Young Master Huo like him? What you are looking for must be our Aunt An. Yes, you can't let him see Young Master Huo It's not good to bring him down Big brother, this Miss Su family has a really bad review. And they said he was bad. What I'm looking for, Xiaofei, shouldn't be this car thief, right? Mr. Huo and the others are talking nonsense It was obviously Song Wenli, the mistress, who came to the door and entered the room Took my mom's place And her illegitimate daughter She set me up Let me get pregnant out of wedlock And now they've kidnapped my son And my son threatened me Who is behaving inappropriately? Why does that child's clothes look like Beckham's? Hey Mr. Huo You save me Why does this kid keep doing it? Take off your clothes Mr. Huo This mask cannot be removed. That child has superandrogenism. Very aggressive If you take off the mask He's sure to bite people Right. This kid is so fierce He has superandroism. Don't scare you. He also has masochistic tendencies We are also doing this to protect him. Shut up my son has no problem Sister, I'm telling the truth This kid has something bad in his genes It must be hereditary His erratic father How can it compare to Young Master Huo? That inherits your good genes High IQ Natural middle best friend Su Wenli If you dare to talk nonsense in front of my son again Believe it or not, I'll rip your mouth out Mom was right Are you trying to say that he is smarter than Young Master Huo? You bastard How is this little bastard? What a young master Huo Liu Ma, is this child sick? Look at it You stop Tell you This time I hit him in the leg Next time you hit him, it's the head If you don't want to see your son die with dirty hands Kneel down and apologize Admit that your son is sick Stop Do you blame Why did you hear this child crying? I will be so heartbroken Mr. Huo, you also have children We're all parents. How can you bear to see others treat children like this? The child is of humble birth How can it be compared to Huo Shao? Mr. Huo, we are teaching him to be a good person Otherwise, what should I do to endanger society in the future, right? You shouldn't hit a child. Mr. Huo, oops What's wrong with this kid? The way of education is naturally different Again This Huo Shao is of noble birth The child is rough-skinned and fleshy It's okay to get two shots. Hey big brother You don't usually mind your own business What's wrong with you today? He looks a lot like Beckham. Get out of here! Who doesn't know that Beckham is the lifeblood of our Huo family? If the Su family dares to abuse Beckham You're looking for death. Besides, Beckham is in the car Sister, I know you feel sorry for the child. But amassing memories Dad is also for the good of you and your children. Huo will never save that freak Give up, I said my son has no problem. I throw you hard To protect me Somebody press the door down and admit your mistake Brother, let's go first Otherwise, the tip will be in a hurry. let go Dad help Who set off the smoke bomb? They're finally here. Little bastard How dare you run away Don't interrupt you. Oh, dear. Ah! No, is it okay? Beckham Beckham, didn't I tell you to wait in the car? What are you doing here? Dad is too slow I'm going to find mommy Mr. Huo Please give me back my son Your son? Mommy Mommy Boss, I'm leaving Isn't the guy in the arms of the letter? I'm confused It's chaotic here. You take your brother first What about this little bastard? Ah! Where is the little mole? Who do you call a little wild What are you doing? Just bullied my son Don't try to run away Mr. Gu, he actually hit me in front of you He just doesn't take you seriously. Phoenix's face was swollen If your face is swollen, apply ice So as not to scare the children. He didn't even help Aunt Su Miss Su, I will take him away You can do whatever you want with the others. It's a deal! Who are you calling misbehaving? I see you are Mrs. Su When nine forgot How did you climb into my dad's bed and get into the seat? How brave Next is your turn Mommy Mommy Beckham, don't worry. My brother will invite Miss Su back Why is he standing in front of my car? Sultanac I will be the person the Huo family sees the most in the future I will definitely avenge you for hitting me Delivery to you Humph Go quickly Just come by yourself. Hey Hey, hey, my car Boss, how did you throw this car off the airport? Didn't come How did you get here? That's my car. No wonder they call me a car thief. Brother, this woman owns a Mercedes-Benz And stole our car Is she sick? She must have driven the wrong car I don't think so. She's here to get to you That's why you've gone to so much trouble. He's kind of funny Ah! Baby Mommy, are you alright? It's okay to go to the hotel first Was the baby scared just now? I was injured and didn't come. Mom look It wasn't me that Mommy was kidnapped just now No, who are you? Is brother What! Is brother What! I also saw Daddy Brother and Daddy together I was shocked. Start fantasizing about dad again I don't even know who your father is How could my brother be with my father? I really saw it. It's all your mother's fault for not protecting you well. Why not mom Trust me. Let's go Wait for home Why are they here? Isn't this the exclusive elevator on the top floor? There are only two scenic spots in Jinglou Could it be us? Great, I'm going to find a chance to find Katie and my brother Beckham Beckham, don't stay alone in the house brother I brought Miss Su here Is it the mommy who saved me just now? Little master is me Mr. Huo Beckham, haven't you always wanted to see Aunt Su? Why did you suddenly hide again? No see go away Beckham, don't you want to see him? Do you want to meet another Aunt Su? OK Mr. Huo It must be my face that was swollen by my sister two days ago Beckham was afraid I'll see her again when my face is swollen Is it possible? Okay, Chen Ye will send Miss Su back first Miss Su, this way please Why didn't Mommy come? Xiaoguo Mom is going out Are you obedient in the hotel alone? Don't worry, Mommy Xiaoguo. elder brother Those are all over-the-top questions They did it on purpose I heard that when Mr. Huo was your age All self-taught college knowledge You are Mr. Huo's son Don't you even understand the questions? Who are you? I just heard some noise inside. You're not physically punishing kids, are you? Mommy This lady The one who lives here is the most precious young master in Nancheng How dare we use corporal punishment? I'm afraid you heard it wrong, right? Let me have a look. Make sure the child is okay Stop messing around here Be careful with my wine Store security kicked you out boss Hey I found out about your eldest son Come over here Ok, I'll be right over. Contrast with honesty You are fined to stand for two hours today Don't eat Go eat Mommy where are you Brother, Daddy, here I come. I'm looking for mommy Brother, I finally found you. Brother, I finally found you. Find me When the bad grandfather took you away and threw you away Mommy's been looking for you It turns out that Mommy doesn't want it anymore. Brother, let's go find Dadie and Mommy So we can reunite as a family of four Dad hates mommy Won't let me meet mommy Mommy doesn't seem to OK Then I think of a way Dettie and Mommy are in love They won't be separated You're right actually. But my brother really wants to be close to Mommy, right? I also really want to be with Dati Let's swap today Brother, rush for the family reunion. Empty again Dabao Where the hell are you? Make him stand and don't feed him He didn't say a word. What a fool Take it easy, don't do damage Or if you know, explain to him what you are afraid of He's autistic and can't explain it At that time, we can say whatever we want. No matter how precious this rich man's son is Not being bullied by us It's cool to think about Let's go and see Lin Mu's instructor's hands Let's go It turns out that the child of the Huo family was really abused Mr. Huo I have something to tell you. What's up So what's up? Pay more attention to your son when you have time What are your two tutors good at? Hey, if you want to strike up a conversation, find a better excuse Beckham is the only inheritance of our Huo family Those two tutors are dead Dare to be unfair to Beckham I have already brought it. It's your business whether you pay attention or not You are Jiaxia Hotel and Jinxiang about this Don't worry, brother knows what to do. Mom, when are you coming back? Xiaoguo Wake up Mommy, I miss you so much. What's the matter? Are you unhappy? No, I'm happy today. Sorry. Xiaoguo Mommy didn't accompany you well in order to find my brother It's okay, Mommy. As a qualified younger brother I have an obligation to help my brother get rid of these rotten peach blossoms Miss Su I have something to discuss with you. Then go open the door What's up Miss Su asks you to live downstairs What do you mean? You spend a lot of money living next to my brother Isn't it just to get close to him? I've seen a lot of women like you Tell you my brother doesn't like you like this This time I came back mainly to find my son Forget it, don't look for a man Ok I move Ah, that's right. Please help me tell your brother a word What narcissism? It's healing. Hey, I think this may be a family will. Better go and see What a poor child to have such a father Forget it, why am I angry? He's not my son Puppy Let's move My brother has to do so much homework every day, it's amazing Daddy is back and will make you stand How dare you be lazy Do you want to be beaten? Give me your hand. You dare to hit me, but you are the most precious young master How can he talk? It doesn't matter. He didn't finish his homework Stupid as a pig Even if it gets to Mr. Huo, it will be my life It makes sense that my brother was bullied like this See how I treat you What nonsense are you talking about? No matter how stupid I am, I'm not like a big fat pig like you How dare you scold me! Okay, you motherless little brat See how I treat you today I think he just needs to clean up today. Wife, I drove this Su Nanjing down to live No one will bother you again Who asked you to do this too much? It's not that you asked me to follow up once. I asked you to follow up with a tutor. What's the matter? That's my misunderstanding. But brother, didn't you hate women's harassment the most? Why did I rush this Su Nanjing to live at home? You don't seem to like it. Tutoring should not be about withholding blood As he said You go check it out Brother, do you really believe what this woman says? She's just looking for an excuse to get close to you, Beckham How could you be bullied? You clean up first Bully me instead of them What the hell is going on? Guo is always like this The young master refuses to do his homework I wanted to discipline him Who knew he lost his temper today? Daddy, they say I'm a little bastard without a mommy Is that really the case? Dan, they say I'm stupid and stupid Hit my palm Make me stand Am I really that bad? Master Xiao, don't talk nonsense Teacher, stop hitting me I know wrong I haven't eaten yet Mr. Gu is not like this You listen to our explanation Pack them up for me Hey, Mr. Guo We know wrong. Give us a break Teach me a hard lesson and follow me Hey, Mr. Guo Yes, avenge my brother. Brother has checked it out These two bastards Did so many outrageous things to Beckham It's still on them tenfold You lock me up Rescue fiercely Yes Hey brother It turns out that what Su Nanqing said is true I also kicked them both downstairs It's all your doing If Daddy does something wrong, apologize Ok, I'll go now. Hey brother Really? I remember he has a son who travels to work in Shenzhen Oh, right. What was his name? Which room is he in? He's eating at the restaurant downstairs. Now Can you make the relationship between Daddy and Mommy better? Mr. Huo wants to rush me to which floor again this time I came to apologize Miss Su We checked out the tutoring thing It's really their fault Sorry. I misunderstood you That's almost you Even if you say the tutoring thing is true But you also deliberately approached my brother Miss Su, you can move back in No need for me Besides, you saved Beckham I owe you one. No need to move back Has Mr. Huo eaten yet? If you don't eat, let's go together OK Ah you eat I'm going out Brother, don't forget what I just told you The Huo family is powerful It should be okay to ask him to help find his son If Miss Su has any requirements, just say it. Any request May I? Brother, don't fool any favors for a while What if he asks you to be his boyfriend? You said I could think about it. Mr. Huo I want to invite you. Mr. Huo I want to invite you. Sure enough I want you to help me find a son Are you all right? You want me to help you find a son? Exactly. Five years ago, I gave birth to twins. The eldest was thrown away by my father as soon as he was born Can't find it now Mr. Huo, can you help me find it? That's the request. What does Mr. Huo think it is? Nothing. You can send me a copy of your child's identity. Really? They are twins It should look the same. Let me show you a picture of the puppy. Hey brother, the phone is dead. Brother, he will definitely find an excuse to add you to WeChat later. Don't let him get away with it Miss Su, this is my business card. After you go back and charge your phone, You can add my WeChat. Send me the photo. Then thank Mr. Huo in advance Vice President, please apply through a friend. I'll send you a photo of the puppy. Just pretend to sleep Mommy won't suspect that I'm not a boy Why haven't you sent the photo yet? He really made an excuse to add my WeChat. Daddy, you're so late Did you have a good chat with Mom Pretty Auntie? How are you? You are so stupid, can't you take the initiative? When can we go back home? Looks like I still have to go Brother, use Mommy's mobile phone to send a message to Daddy. Just say Hey brother Inviting you to his room so late This intention is too obvious, bro How is it you? Miss Su Since we are all adults Now that you're so positive Well, I won't let you down then. What are you talking about? Dad? You had the door locked How am I going to get out? The door is locked Be careful Ah! Freeze Hello Okay? All right. Miss Su, you asked me to come These are bathed again. Locked the door again What does that mean now? I'll analyze it carefully We must be being tricked. It's really not you. Let's go I really don't like men like you Even if you stand naked in front of me I won't look at you either It seems as if you were the one who just got naked you That's right. For the safety of the child I installed surveillance in the hallway myself Let's take a look and see Your son? report Now we know who did it Luo Xiaobei Apologize soon Mr. Huo No need to apologize I advise you. Don't be too angry Even if all the men in the world like me I wouldn't like you either. Here we go. come in Daddy, can I play with Pretty Auntie next time? The inspection of the hotel is over Tomorrow we're going back to the old house Great, I can go to my dad's house. So, when did you two meet? Which of you is the master? We want daddy and mommy It's all mommy's fault Did not give the puppy a complete home Then mommy, think about that handsome uncle Do not consider It's nice to have a mommy Hello Ni Nu, do you want to know the whereabouts of your son? So much. You never told me where my son is Now you will be so kind Don't worry. You don't marry Mr. Liu Mr. Liu will not invest in us You have to solve the trouble you caused This is the transfer contract from your mother's company. Sign it and I'll tell you where your son is Dreaming is my mother's life's work Promise is death I won't sell it either People are dead What blood is there? I suggest you sign the contract quickly Have time to find your son Otherwise, the longer it takes The harder it is to find your son's whereabouts What did you do? Didn't you hire a lot of private detectives? Ah! That's not a picture of me. He's lying to Mommy. Only I know the whereabouts of your son If you really want to find your son Hurry up and sign him Mommy don't Mommy don't Xiaoguo, as long as you can find your brother Don't say grandma's weird mom Even if I let my mother die, my mother is willing It turns out that I am so important in Mommy's heart What are you dawdling about? Are you going to cut or not? I cut What are you doing? Don't touch my son Is it ready? I wired a copy of this contract If you don't sign You'll never find you again. Su Hongrui, you bastard He is your grandson My grandson is the one who can make money for me To owe or not to owe Mommy, I know my brother's whereabouts and don't need money. Little trash, what do you know? Mommy, I really know I'll take you to find your brother now little brother What you said is true. OK Let's go! Su Zhenxing You just sign the contract tonight What I say counts Otherwise Just wait to collect your son's body Xiaoguo This is not the Huo family Brother is here Brother is here I heard that the Huo family's old house employs hundreds of people Could it be that Dabao was adopted? Mommy, come home with me Hey Su Wanqing What are you doing here? Miss He came here to designate to flatter Mr. Huo In the past, I heard that he used the name of Young Master Huo In order to get close to Mr. Huo It's a pity that Mr. Huo didn't take him seriously at all Xiaoguo walk Let's go find brother Hahaha I still want to find my son You don't open your eyes. This is the dream of the wealthy lady of the Huo family How dare you be a slut with a ruined reputation Maybe even fantasize Young Master Huo is the little bastard you lost What a master-servant drama Hey Where were you when he lived in a luxury house and rode in a luxury car? Are you serving tea and water? Be a maid Someone is inappropriate Do you want to be a dog? Ah no no no no This good dog is unreasonable You're not even as good as a dog You you you And you? Who told you that only you can enter this house? I can't come in I think it's you who daydreams Don't be complacent here I'm the person Young Master Huo wants to see And I was personally invited by them. Why does that kid look like a young master? Why does that kid look like a young master? Dad's house is really big Oh, that's really a young master No, I have to hurry up and tell Mr. Huo I want to enter Huo's house Why don't you ask our eldest lady? Maybe our eldest lady is in a good mood Even you go in and see the world But what to do? I'm in a bad mood now Has anyone learned to bark a dog? I'm so happy. happy Mommy, I can take you in The kid should be the young master Huo known by his superiors. So you can go in But is his brother really in the Huo family? Ouch, the sun is out in the west Ouch, the little mute is talking nonsense. I still want to enter the Huo family Do you want to be the young master of the Huo family? Xiaoguo, what's wrong with you? It's okay Xiaoguo They're bad people. Nothing they say is right. Mommy is here Xiaoguo is good Liu Ma is right He's just dumb. Still acting as a disaster boy outside How could the Huo family give birth to such a son? Shut me up and I'll shut up This kid is so poor I didn't even know my biological father was a gangster My dad is not a gangster Oh. That's a beggar Ouch, peanuts are dementia. Ouch, I don't want to. Giving birth to such a bad tire Guan Ting, you explain Xiaoguo Xiaoguo Xiaoguo Xiaoguo Xiaoguo Xiaoguo Xiaoguo, what's wrong with you Xiaoguo Xiaoguo Xiaoguo little dragon Xiaoguo Xiaoguo has been in good health How could there be such a severe hypoglycemia suddenly? If glucose is not input in time Will destiny There is only one house in the Huo family around 5 kilometers It's too late. Anybody? My son needs medical attention If your son is sick, go to the hospital The Huo family is not something you can enter if you want Get out of here! Oh, I see. It must be the two of you colluding Deliberately pretending to be dizzy Take the opportunity to touch porcelain and win awards If anything happens to my son I'll ask you two to pay the bill. rogue Hold him down for me Don't let me make you pretend to be dizzy. Su Nanqing, let me tell you You can't go in with me here Not as long as you still owe me a favor Zhu Daxian actually dares to call Mr. Huo's name I'll tell you what. You can't go in today You want to go in and dream Stop Stop Are you all right? Beckham Beckham What's going on? Severe hypoglycemia Need immediate treatment Come 31 more shots Express He faked illness and fainted on purpose. And Su Nanqing just wants to get close to you on purpose Don't trust them. Delayed the child Stop it and kill you Arrest these two men for me Teach him a lesson Sunan Tian, who do you think you are? I really think of myself as Mrs. Huo Bullying my Huo family Take them down for me Let go what are you doing Are you mistaken? I just want to teach Song Danqing a lesson Did you not bully the Huo family? And that little wild master is not Young Master Huo Who are you calling Ono Master? Do you know who he is? Know who he is Blind your dog eyes He is not the young master of the Huo family, who is How is that possible? You bitch Convicted so quickly How dare you let Mr. Huo recognize his son as his son? The emperor is not like this They must have joined forces to deceive you Dare to slander Drag me down and give me a good beating I don't want to talk about anything else I don't want to let go of me He has acute hypoglycemia Just rush to eat glucose on the tree You also know medicine Ah. I learned something before It's hypoglycemia. This lady is right I'm going to give the little master some fluids He'll wake up in a while Miss Su Is your injury okay? Do you need to bandage it? Ah, I'm fine. I'll just go back and deal with it myself By the way, Miss Su Why are you with my son? Your son? Yes, my son, He Heechul Little Bei He is not Xiaoguo But he looks exactly like Xiaoguo He's my other son. Miss Su Miss Su? What are you thinking about? Ah. You mean you're his dad's biological father? Not bad, Miss Su What exactly do you want to ask? I'm just a little curious Beckham is sick Why didn't you see her mother? Don't allow your woman She made my brother miserable back then Or let you kill Beckham? Kill Beckham What happened that year? You mean she was sorry for the Huo family back then? What did she do? Not that woman Oh, dear. Don't talk about the past brother When he left his children, he wouldn't even show his face You have to hide it for him If only I knew who this woman was I must bring him to you Make him apologize You haven't seen Beckham's mother Nope. Then I take the liberty to ask How did you get her pregnant? You are a woman who asks too many questions Don't think you have a good relationship with Xiaohui My brother can see you Okay, what about your son? Didn't you ask me to help you find your son last time? Is it convenient to bring it over? Uh, no. I have found him He hates childbirth so much If you know there is another child Will definitely take the kid away from me brother I told you He found reasons to threaten Mr. Kwok, I have something else to do I'll go first Hello What's on my face? There seems to be something What's there? Kind of handsome So I say That woman is so reluctant to part Brother, he must like you How did you deal with those two people just now? I already beat them up. Kicked me out They don't know Beckham. Xiao Bei should be here to find Su Lanqing Dare to attack Beckham The Su family can go bankrupt Grandma will go back to China for treatment in a few days. I heard that Dr. Andy has been in the country recently Take the time to find a good guide daughter Go to Huo's house today How are you getting along with Young Master Huo? OK It should be fine Ok ok ok Good huo family The crisis of our Su family will be lifted Uncle Tang doesn't have to be with that Sister-in-law Liu Make an exchange Really dad It's all up to you this time Mr. Su is not well The Su family went bankrupt Ah! What! What's up? Sorry dad I don't know what tricks Song Daqing used Let Mr. Huo recognize his son as his own son He must have made Mr. Huo deliberately embarrass us Look at you He can get on with a baby Why are you Wudang? I'm not like him Oh. That's right. Mrs. Huo will return to China to see a doctor in two days. You get the best doctors on the market Heal the old lady Take her down Su Xiaoguo Did you already know your brother's whereabouts? Mommy, I told you before You don't believe The one who was kidnapped to the Su family last time was my brother How could I believe that? It's not my fault! Mommy When will my brother and I change again? Why do you have a father now and not a mother? I'm worried about my brother He has autism. Can I treat well by your side? After all, you are the best physician in the world I don't know if your brother is awake now. I'll call my brother and ask Brother brother How are you? Love you in my heart I'm ready. Hello? Who are you talking to? Who is Beckham chatting with? Miss Su How are you He almost saw me. Hello Mr. Mo Hello Miss Su, are you alright? OK Now that Beckham has almost recovered Tomorrow we will take our two children to the movies together When the time comes, take the opportunity to let the two children swap He wants to date me OK No junk food Brother, ask a girl to watch a movie, be sure to buy small snacks Girls will feel better after eating sweets As soon as I am happy, I will agree to your pursuit. boss Give me a serving of all these snacks. Why did you buy so much? Bought it for Xiaobi Daddy is so duplicitous This and this All for you Ann for your son Give Xiaoguo to Xiaoguo Why are your eyes so ambiguous? How can you cover it so tightly on such a hot day? Take off the mask Take off the mask Eh Xiaoguo has caught a cold recently. And you can't see the wind. Brother, the time is almost up. Let's go in He's so happy to watch a movie with me This is my oldest son. It's so cute to look serious He kept staring at me again. Beckham You just ate more Thank you aunt mom So concerned about me I just feel Children are more cute Don't think about it. I didn't think much of it. But it's you? What are you panicking about? Who panics? I'm afraid you think I'm impatient with you. Humph Miss Su, I haven't spoken yet You don't talk to yourself I see you are guilty Who sir you sir You are what you are arguing about Let people watch movies If you two want to flirt, go out Yeah little couple yeah It's about to be a scene inappropriate for children Children can't watch With kids and asking me to watch love movies The implication is too obvious To lure little Beckham to talk more little Beckham Beckham Have you read the book The Little Prince? Yes. Mommy never knew What is the meaning of that book? Can you tell Mommy about it? Mommy's intentions are too obvious How can you lie and talk so much? What can a mother do at home? Pamper it Okay, this book is about I like this one. Like big Then answer me a few questions Uncle will buy it for you, okay? What's the problem? Your daddy, how did you and mommy meet? I don't know. Mommy didn't say But daddy left us as soon as he was born It's not early Xiaoguo Then do you know what your father's name is? Of course you know. What's that scum called? What's that scum called? Mommy won't let me say So do you and your mommy hate your father very much? No, I like Daddy very much If only Daddy and Mommy could get back together Even better What's the matter with you, handsome uncle? Uncle handsome, you haven't bought me a toy yet? Don't you like your father very much? You asked him to buy it for you? But my father is you Beckham Is it almost there? Time to go home. Mommy, I haven't been to the bathroom all day today I'm a little anxious Brother, let's go together Let's go home. OK Said grandma suddenly fell ill We haven't found Dr. Andy yet What can be done? I'll be right back. Miss Su, someone in my family is critically ill I want to go back. What's up? Mommy is grandma Must be grandma My grandmother loved me all her life I don't want my grandmother to die Mommy won't let Grandma die Let's go and see Let's go How is grandma Mrs. Huo's heart valve was severely damaged Insufficient oxygen supply to myocardial ischemia I'm afraid we'll go car shopping again Grandma will get better Come on. We don't have a better way. Love grandma Yeah. I'll try that. Miss Su, you want to get my brother's attention Don't look at what's going on now Auntie is now critically ill And you're still kidding us here? I'm a doctor. I have a way I checked you out. You never went to college What kind of doctor? Don't talk nonsense here Can you trouble me? Oops, the old lady has no heartbeat Please save grandma Excuse me. Brother, do you really believe this woman? She saved Xiaofei before I do know some medical skills This is the situation now What can you do? This girl looks to be in her 20s Mrs. Huo's hidden disease for more than ten years Can she be cured? It doesn't matter if you know As long as Mr. Huo sees his heart All right. All right. Why is grandma still not moving? Doctor Go and see There is a heartbeat Just why is the pulse so confused? This is normal. Don't worry, it will be fine in a while. Abnormal heartbeat is normal Su Manqing, let me tell you If anything happened to my grandmother I will never let you go. If only I could save Mrs. Huo How about you just call me sister? As long as Grandma Huo is okay I can do anything You tell me. So what happened? When can we expect to see it? five Five days are crazy four What is this for? Brother 3 Look at him. The old lady woke up grandma The old lady woke up Breathe smoothly stable pulse Mrs. Huo has really been cured Thanks. Thank you for saving Grandma No problem This time I owe you another favor Huo Chenyi Where are you going? Are you willing to admit defeat? elder sister Louder elder sister Hey Dear brother, be polite when talking to your sister in the future. Shall we go first? OK Let's go Xiaoguo Hey brother I think this Su Nanqing is really extraordinary I suddenly feel that he is qualified to be my sister-in-law Uncle, you should be more polite to your sister in the future. Hey brother Have you not had time to check Xiaowei's homework recently? You should test him Oh, no. You would have done this a month ago. What's wrong with you today? I'm still in the literacy stage Of course I don't understand these questions Daddy, why don't we memorize poetry? I know a lot of poetry It rains during Qingming Festival Lonely family Purple smoke from Rizhao incense burner The beautiful man came to the roast duck shop Huoxitang Beckham used to learn very well How did it become like this? Could it be that Was Xiao Bi ruined by those two tutors? Yi Brilliance Yi Brilliance What's wrong bro The two tutors didn't teach the dog a lesson before. You go to their stall now Oh, on my way. Parents break down every time they have tutoring time Afraid to leave is no exception I'm on my way. Beckham was a father before Not listed I will teach you myself in the future Brother, is brother also studying now? Hahaha Xiaoguo, what's wrong with you? emergency Brother mommy Come and save me What happened to Xiaoguo Has it been discovered? No. It was my father who asked me to do the difficult math problems well Brother, let's come back soon, okay? Xiaoguo doesn't want to do the question We are such clever little fruits It's not that I recite poems to my father and he doesn't like it I have to choose math Beckham Beckham I am Xiaoguo He's your son? I am Xiaojuan Pretty aunt Miss Su You come to Huo Jiaxiu to see Beckham If coming to see Beckham would raise her suspicions Uh, no. I just wanted to come and see Have a look. Look at who? Look at Mrs. Huo How is his health? That's a lie. I'm embarrassed to say I want to see you Grandma is in good health now So lively What should I call myself when I see you? OK sister-in-law Ah! Wrong wrong elder sister Ah, that's right. Brother, this is a custom-made dress for Beckham. I got it back for you. Hmm. What dress? Brother, open it and take a look. Hey This is a specially customized dress for our descendants of the Huo family. Representing the identity of the Huo family Hey, it's not even two days before grandma's birthday. Xiaobai wears this The one with big brother is a parent-child outfit. Wow, it's beautiful. If you like it, I'll give it to you. Hey no This dress belongs to Beckham. Only the son of the Huo family dares to wear it But I am the child of the Huo family But I am the child of the Huo family Child, even if your mother marries my brother You are not my brother's biological son either Not the young master of the Huo family You can't wear Huo's custom-made dress. Hmm. Who said I was going to marry into the Huo family? Mommy Xiaoguo will buy you better-looking clothes, okay? I just want to be like my brother and handsome uncle Everything else is negotiable. But this kind of symbol of my status is not good Miss Su, you have to set rules for your children Tell him there's something to prove Some things are not allowed. My son doesn't need you back Oh, Miss Su This dress is a trait of the Huo family If the kid likes it I can find a similar style. No need, Mr. Huo Miss Su Handsome uncle Can you give me that dress? You like it very much. Does your dad want to match your dad with your mommy? I still like to stay Of course you have to match You shouldn't take what doesn't belong to you. I want your father to buy it for you. My father is you My daddy is you What happened to Xiaoguo Mommy Xiaoguo is so wronged I don't want to replace it. Is it really fair to Xiaoguo not to tell Huo Junyao? I don't know who Beckham is Beckham You haven't slept yet Miss Su is me Beckham, she's already asleep. Oh. Na hang Beckham, she's awake again Xiao Bei, did you drink milk at night? Beckham is asleep again. He doesn't drink milk on time before bed Bectaemia Be sure to follow my diet OK Miss Su, I want to invite you to dinner tomorrow. I wonder if you have time. Beckham? he No, just you and me. Then I won't go I'm going to take Xiaohu out to play tomorrow. I hang up first Hello This is because I'm angry about the dress. Wow Mommy Can we really spend the day here today? Of course, as long as the young man is happy Ok? Great! Go! What's wrong with the manager? Isn't this Young Master Huo? Did you sneak out again? I'll call the vice president now Daddy, how can you delete Xiaoguo's WeChat? Beckham deletes it He's not your brother Now the guy is angry Go and apologize to him Brother must not apologize His mommy hasn't set up our Huo family yet He regarded himself as the young master of the Huo family How does this work? You misunderstood the guy Mr. Huo's playground said A woman took the young master into the amusement park just now Young Master, aren't you supposed to be at the amusement park? It is Su Xiaoguo who is impersonating our young master of the Huo family First, we clamored for customized gifts from the descendants of the Huo family. Now I want a fox fake tiger Brother Wei, let's hurry up and have a look. Gotta teach him a lesson Otherwise I don't know What more outrageous things will he do later? Mommy, I want to play that Go ahead. It's mine. You don't play Obviously I went up first If you want to play, just line up at the back So grown up Shame on you Mom and Dad hit me Oh son Okay, you little brat! Dare to hit my son See if I teach you a lesson today. See if I teach you a lesson today. It's a kid thing Let the children solve it by themselves Let's adults stop interfering Who are you? Why don't you let me get involved? Oh, I see. Is this your son? Your son beat my son Do you want to pass the buck? It was clearly your son who made the first move just now My son is just gold So what? How precious is my son? Just poor people like you I still want to compare with my son How dare you push my son down My butt just pushes It was a broken bone. I'm going to break his bones. Mommy, I just gave it a little push You're still quibbling, right? Ah! So much surveillance here Why don't we adjust the monitoring? Just adjust it if you say so. Hurry up and get this little brat to apologize to my son If you don't apologize Believe it or not, I'll kick you out. I will never let you in again Why are you driving us away? Why rely on this amusement park? Mrs. Huo opened it for Young Master Huo This is the property of the Huo Group I am the vice president of the Huo Group I can get you out of here with just one word Huo Group has people like you It's really crowded. Pardon me? I said your vice president is over You look good, how can I clean you up today? Don't touch my mommy Do you know who my father is? Freeze Does my mom know who my dad is? I don't care who your daddy is This is my turf I have the final say. Here are two troublemakers Get them out of here now! Mommy, I haven't played enough Do you hear me? My son says he hasn't had enough We are not going Is this something you can't get out of if you don't want to? I suggest you leave by yourself You'll suffer when the security kicks you out later Coincidentally, I am more stubborn It's boring if you don't stop me Forget it. Forget it. Don't talk nonsense with this guy Wait for the security to kick them out Come on, just the two of them make trouble Kick them out for me, Mr. Zhao The manager said just now that he seems to be Young Master Huo Huo Xiaoshao Hahaha Just him and Young Master Huo? Do you believe me if I say my son is Young Master Huo? It's Master Huo I was originally the son of the third brother How come I've never heard of it? Young Master Huo will go out with such a woman Oh. You are here to impersonate Young Master Huo, right? You came to make trouble today on purpose Are you sure you want to drive us away? I have the final say here What's the matter? Arrest them both for me And this little brat Kneel down and apologize Throw them both out again If you dare to touch me I'll do it. I need it urgently. My father is Stephen Hawking brother He's really making trouble in your name Who provoked him? That's not true. Do you want to tell daddy The puppy's daddy is him Yo, you're still acting, right? Keep your mouth clean Otherwise, don't blame me for being rude to you. You brought a little wild seed here Dare to pretend to be Mr. Huo's son Who gave you the courage? I'm not faking. Not a little wild I have a daddy, my daddy is Huo Junyao On you Is there anything that can represent you as Young Master Huo? Why don't you call Mr. Huo Dad? See if he will agree to you? Hey, you not only ignored me And blocked me. Too lazy to care about you two rubbish Get these two rubbish out of here! Don't dirty the Huo's land Daddy, go and save the boy Brother can't go If you go Your child will be more rampant in the future Daddy, you'll regret it if you don't go I'm not in a hurry Do not come Vice President of Dangerous Huo Group How dare you do such a thing? brother Am I blind? Why are there two Beckham? But the uncle and the puppy are twins What do you mean the puppy is my son too? Vice President of Dangerous Huo Group How dare you treat customers like this? I'm not afraid of this getting out What do you mean? I'll tell you what. Everything you just said I've recorded it all You must have posted it many times in this position. If Mr. Huo knew you were outside This will ruin the name of the Huo Group Do you think you can still be a vice president? You take another step forward I will post all the recordings just now online Now that the Internet is so developed We're going to suffer if we go head-to-head with him Well, why don't we wait until we hear from them and let's go? Sure, you're lucky today. Don't let me see you next time Humph Baby, don't be afraid. Mommy is here Mommy is the best. How dare you threaten me If I find out what their background is See if I don't kill him Hahaha Mr. Guo, why are you here today? Mr. Guo, don't you know? Just now, a little bastard dared to pretend to be Young Master Huo I taught him a lesson, hehehe. It's You Who is that? Kids, show me clearly This is my Huo family's little student You just said call in Not me. It's that kid Dare to insult my son Don't worry. Mr. Huo Mr. Huo I was wrong. Please forgive me. Your position will be revoked as of today Notice to me Huo Group will never camp hahaha Mr. Huo, don't you want it? Come Mr. Huo Mr. Huo Drag him down for me No, Mr. Huo, I was wrong No, I like Daddy very much It would be better if Daddy and Mommy were together again Don't you like your daddy very much? You asked him to buy it for you? I want to be like my brother and handsome uncle Everything else is negotiable. But this kind of symbol of my status is not good Uncle Pai, can you give me that dress? You still like your father I want to match your brother with your mother The father of the little bone beast turned out to be me He keeps trying to get close to me I pushed him away with my own hands I'm really stupid. Xiaobao What's up? I don't want to care about my stupid brother anymore Oops, okay, okay? Let's just ignore him! Be careful Ah! Take the kid back first I'm going to see the kid Daddy Did you forget that you sent the guy's WeChat? Said he couldn't give him that dress Chen Yan You can customize another one. I want to see my brother in three days That dress is purely handmade Embroidery takes two months. Then buy their company Let everyone remake this one for me Be sure to let the puppy and Beckham wear it on the same day I actually thought he liked me. It turned out that he approached me because of Beckham Beckham Do you want to see Mommy? Of course I do. Then you tell daddy What does Mommy like best? Hello Mr. Huo Miss Su I'll know about the amusement park today I'll handle that person for you. Then thank Mr. Huo Nothing much happened. I hang up first Hey I read on the news that someone has an appointment with Beckham tonight I want to ask you out Oh, I see. Xiaoguo, are you really not going with Mommy? I don't want to stay Then mommy is not going either. Accompany Xiaoguo at home OK, brother likes mommy. Mommy must go Mr. Huo Didn't you say you were going to take Beckham to see meteors? What about Beckham? Oh. After all, you have to stay up late to watch meteors. I'm worried about Beckham's health So I decided to make a video of Liu Xin Just take it back and show it to him. That being the case Then Mr. Huo will go to shoot alone. No need to take me with you Parking! I'm going down Hey Miss Su Actually I have something to tell you Beckham, please. Be sure to let Miss Su take popular videos for him Beckham has not had a mommy since he was a child I have only been kind to Miss Su over the years So I asked Miss Su If Miss Su feels reluctant I owe it to Beckham Just take this opportunity You can ask how Beckham came to her back then. And how did I get pregnant? Okay. Brother, we succeeded in matching Dad and Mommy. Cheers. Go another way Miss Su I've always had a question. Xiao Wei About Xiao Wei Beckham fainted again Beckham is fine Yes, I want to ask Miss Su Why do you care so much about my son? Because because Beckham is cute But Miss Su's concern has crossed the line Ordinary people don't care that much about children The age of the dog and Beckham Still the same Dad? He couldn't have guessed it, could he? That's because... Because in fact you are because So nervous No What are you nervous about? I'm just guessing that Miss Su likes me That's why I care so much about Beckham I can't think of any other reason. How can you be so narcissistic? It's all discovered by you That's right, I like Mr. Huo But there's such a big difference between our identities And I also have a son who is not yours Not likely. Miss Su herself is also excellent Not so belittle yourself Who belittles themselves Beckham likes you too So I decided to agree to your pursuit Let's try to get along. Not Mr. Huo That's not what I meant. Miss Su doesn't like me and cares so much about Beckham Are you Beckham's lost mom for 5 years? It seems that I can only admit defeat Hahaha me How could I not like Mr. Huo? Mr. Huo is so excellent Of course I like it. Then thank Mr. Huo for agreeing to my pursuit Hey Mr. Huo Where did the cherry blossom sticks come from? This was bought by Chen Yi and Beckham Why do you like it too? I have a question for you too green Just call me by my name from now on What are you calling me? Qingqing is too easy We are a couple now Is there a problem with me calling you Qingqing? Qingqing Qingqing What do you want to ask? Go ahead. How did you find Beckham? How did you find Beckham? that year Is it Huo showing off? Your son is in my hands If you want your son to live, give me 10 million Who are you? Don't need to know who I am Send the money now. Otherwise your son will know to wait to die But where did you come from, son? Please help me check the address of this mobile phone number. Go to the file, hurry up I wanted to get some money from your biological father But he didn't believe it. I can't help it. I can only bury you Brother, the mobile phone location is near here. But it can't be hidden at all Someone must be playing a prank Go back now! I'm still a little uneasy to look for it again The doctor said Beckham would be dead a few minutes later And that's why Beckham got autism. Beckham blames Mommy for not protecting you well I called for money at that time I thought it was Beckham's birth mother That's why you hate his birth mother so much But I don't think so now. I don't think Beckham's mom is that kind of person. After all, think about it. The biological mother of a child How could he kill his own child for money? Beckham is so smart and kind He must have inherited it from his mommy. So how did you get Beckham's mother pregnant? So how did you get Beckham's mother pregnant? I don't know. Do you believe me when I say I've never touched a woman? It's because after I saved Beckham Went to check the DNA Confirmed that Beckham is indeed my child I know it's going to sound crazy to you. He didn't know the truth either. Then why did you give birth to a boy? Why do you ask that? It is not easy to be a single mother Ordinary girls don't make such a choice I'll help you. I also want to be a good mother Angie's mother is going to a far place soon I can't be with you every day from now on I don't want to leave. Mommy Can Mommy take me with her? Silly boy, you can't go It's just the days when mommy's not around You're going to have a hard time. Then can you not go? Although I am worried Facing the world Everything will pass You will have many happy days in the future There will be someone you like Will have children of their own Mom? I miss you so much! Now I also have children of my own As for the person you like Actually he's not bad Thank you for showing me the meteor today Yeah. As long as you like it. Yes, I like it very much. Let's go back then. Hahaha Pour a cup Why does it look so familiar? Okay, are you drinking too much? Can't drink it What if you meet a bad person? Fortunately, I'm still a gentleman Isn't that you? not afraid OK, maybe we can go back now? Will not What else do you want? unless Unless you give me Xiaowei This won't work. Then tell me How much do you want? Open a home It's not about the money. that How did I come back? Amy, you're awake Who sent me here? It's a bad daddy Mommy How did you get along with bad daddy yesterday? That's between us two men It has nothing to do with you. Oops, today is the anniversary of your grandmother's death Pack up Let's go see grandma Brother, today is grandma's funeral day. I want to go too I want mommy to come home You have other tasks to do Mom I brought the money back to see You didn't expect you to come and see you again Omg Su Hongrui, I should ask you this, right? What are you doing here? Who made you talk to me like that? Your mother married into the Su family Sheng is from the Su family Even dead He is also the ghost of the Su family Su Hongrui, my mother doesn't want to see Please leave. elder sister I guess your mom doesn't want to see anyone it should be your mom If I Were You Born such a wild breed It's embarrassing You actually took her out to worship her ancestors with a swagger Humph I guess your mom's coffin board can't hold it down Ready to jump out and scold you to death You're talking nonsense, I'm not a little wild boar I have a daddy You don't mean to say that your father is Huo Junyao, do you? It doesn't matter if you deserve it or not He's just like his mother If you defect to the Huo family, you will dare to say anything Does Mr. Huo like you very much? You have a good talk with Mr. Huo Let him let us go It turns out that you are here today for this Then what? You thought we were here to pay homage Dad said As long as you intercede with Mr. Huo on behalf of the Su family Then Dad will recognize you and Mr. Ono You'd better accumulate some morality You don't have to admit who he is. I'll tell you what. Your Su family will go bankrupt You deserve it all Humph You don't see who you are Mr. Huo likes you, it's just for fun Tired of waiting Don't still kick you Just kick a lover away What are you proud of? Well, I suggest you think about it You help me now Think of it as helping yourself Wait until Mr. Huo gets tired of playing I can still guarantee your life What a big breath You can stay safe. Such a big breath Hey Mr. Huo, why are you here? If I don't come, I'll miss a good show It turns out that Mr. Su That's how I treat my daughter in private He's talking nonsense behind your mother's back Said his illegitimate child was yours I can't listen to this anymore. I will educate him a few words Mr. Huo, your status is distinguished How can you recognize a wild child as your son? Let's just listen to this This will ruin your reputation if it gets out It really doesn't work. The puppy is my son Miss Su agreed to my pursuit yesterday She's my girlfriend now. Her son is my son Do you have any doubts? Xiaofei likes you very much too So I decided to agree to your pursuit Let's get along Mother-in-law You don't have to worry about it from now on Please leave your mood to me. I will definitely take good care of his good son I know it's a little sudden I just want to express my sincerity in front of my aunt Sissi Let me protect you after you marry me This ring is a symbol of the nun's grandmother Mr. Huo, do you really want to marry her? Mr. Huo, don't be fooled by her She has slept with many men And she has a child with another man You are courting death Mr. Huo, what do you see in him? As long as he is willing to marry me I wouldn't care. You didn't see this Mr. Huo has been fascinated by him Let's go, let's go Mr. Huo Thank you just now. Hey I didn't do it for them. Pardon me? green You won't deny it if you take advantage of it, will you? Who took advantage of you? How about this? I did this when I was drunk Communication without the purpose of marriage is hooliganism You're not going to deny it now, are you? Not me I yesterday No. Then we'll get married tomorrow. But but I Xiaoguo Is there something on your head? OK. Now that you've seen it, I'll tell you Xiaobai Why did you secretly run out to find Aunt Su again? No wonder I haven't seen you all day Go home with your dad in a while Oh, you are so stupid. You can't even recognize me as Xiaoguo Beckham came out to find you without a word Must have caused you a lot of trouble Neither Well, but it's okay for families to trouble each other Xiaoguo I really hope he will take the initiative to come and trouble me in the future I don't want you, badass. It's quite windy Then I'll take my son home first. Ah! Pretty aunt Don't worry. I'm all right. Beckham In order to make your broken family Reunion I can only feel wronged by you. That's not right. Huo Junyao said that he hadn't seen Beckham for a day So he took Xiaoguo away as Beckham Where is Beckham? Beckham Beckham Why did you sneak away alone? Xiaoguo was almost exposed Mommy, I won't do it next time. Next time if Beckham wants to find Mommy, call I can't come here alone anymore Do you understand? Daddy, I changed for the first time for you Mommy must coax Xiaoguo well Brother, you asked me to customize the dress for you. I got it back for you. Oh, dear. You say Last time, Xiaoguo was still angry because of the dress. You said if I gave it to him directly Will he accept it? It's for me. brother It's not my fault. This custom dress takes two months. If you hadn't spent a lot of money Acquired all their companies They're working overtime. They're rushing. How can it be so fast? Because I bought the company Hey Beckham You say What about daddy Only then can Xiaoguo accept the dress? The novel doesn't say Can only the children of the Huo family have that? Xiaoguo is also Daddy's son Of course he can have it. Xiaoguo Can everything you give me in the future be exactly the same? Certainly. Hey, hey. Daddy A few days ago, I accidentally blocked Xiaoguo's WeChat. How do you think I can add it back? Daddy, stop pretending You deliberately blocked my Xiaoguo Baby, do you hate Xiaoguo very much? I like Xiaoguo very much. I also want to be Xiaoguo's father But Xiaoguo always matches his biological father and mommy Daddy is stupid Daddy is you But now I know I was wrong I don't know if Xiaoguo will accept me Forgive me. Xiaoguo is willing It's better than a few days. It's grandma's birthday party When is the time? You invite Xiaoguo I'm going to invite Aunt Su, okay? OK brother You are simp I really have no face to look at you Miss Su This is the haute couture dress prepared by Mr. Huo for you. There is also an invitation letter in it. Thank you. OK Dear fiancee Grandma's birthday next week Huo Junyao invites you to a feast Sincerely from your dear fiance What fiance? I didn't say yes. Go to a birthday party You can't go empty-handed. All right. Is Anshenwan ready? Okay, I'll get it for you. The old lady's illness just happens to be relieved by Anshen Pill 20 bowls you want. Do you know who that is? Such a precious pill is actually given to a poor He can't afford it. Why does Sun Ying have you everywhere? This pill was developed by Dr. Angel A hard one You sell it to me I promise to give you the most satisfactory price. I remember that your Su family has gone bankrupt Where did you get the money A dead camel is bigger than a horse We are better than you no matter what This pill is priceless You can't afford it at all How do you know I can't afford it? Could it be that you still want to use Mr. Huo's card? You're shameless What's your business? Anyway, the pill is in my hand It's mine. I pay twice the price 3 times Four times this is the last family of the Su family What's the point of letting Mrs. Huo have this money? 5 times Look at him. It should be the limit. It's a deal! checkout I've always won You still want to argue with me about mine? Still you are great A pill is doubled 5 times I used to have a box of calming pills here Mrs. Huo is recovering from a serious illness this time Another birthday party Double happiness. You said it wrong. It's three joys I heard that Mr. Huo announced tonight Who is his fiancee? Celebrate the old lady's birthday together I don't know who is so lucky It was able to win Mr. Huo's favor So beautiful, this dress is a haute couture from the Ji family, right? Limited to one piece worldwide Dressed so grandly Could he be Mr. Huo's fiancee? Song Danqing You can do it yourself With a tow bottle Yo You're wearing a mask? You know you can't see anyone? shut up Don't make me fight you on this occasion You don't let me tell you that you have children out of wedlock? Oh, I see. Do you feel ashamed that you gave birth to a bastard? What if I were you? You should be self-aware Stay away from Mr. Huo It turned out that he wanted to seduce Mr. Huo There is always urine without a mirror Born so low Don't see if you deserve it The Huo family is the first wealthy family Not all women with small doors can come in With a child How could Mr. Huo like it? Everyone What about the guests at the scene? It's almost there. today We, Mr. Huo, congratulate Mrs. Huo on her birthday I specially want to invite a female companion on site Dance the opening dance together Celebrate My dear fiancee You can give me a face. Do you want to dance with your future husband? The ring you just saw on his hand That is the symbol of the young wives of the Huo family So the fiancee that Mr. Huo wants to marry is really him How dare Su Nanjie Dare to seduce Mr. Huo Xiao Xiao enters the door of Huo's house Mrs. Dehuo nodded You look a little unhappy today Were you a little too high-profile just now? I don't like them talking about my fiancee I couldn't hold back for a while That's why I told them Did you hold back for a while or did you do it on purpose? Qianqian You are so beautiful today If I don't announce it in time You will be surrounded by other men I'm afraid of losing him Such an excellent person I will also worry about gains and losses because of me Mrs. Huo Just now, Mr. Huo announced his fiancee Yo, I have a woman I like Who is it? It is said that That woman has a bad reputation Often fooling around with a lot of men She had a baby with another man The kid outside said he was Young Master Huo What do you mean by that? Didn't Mr. Huo tell you? That Woman Her children are already of kindergarten age And she is always arguing with Young Master Huo You love Young Master Huo the most You won't watch her suffer, will you? Where is that woman Can you show me? OK Last time you cured grandma Grandma keeps saying she wants to thank you Just take this opportunity I knew you. What's up There's something going on at my company I'll go out and make a phone call first Ok, you can do it first. Then you wait for me here. I'll be back soon after calling You are the woman that military medicine has a crush on Mrs. Huo She is the fiancee just announced by Mr. Huo. That is Fu Wuxiang's illegitimate son I don't know what kind of ecstasy soup Mr. Huo was fed Fancy this woman with a child Your grandmother Why does this kid look so much like Beckham? Su'an Yin What fancy do you want to play? Mrs. Guo You see, I haven't said anything yet. She is guilty This child is yours Exactly. Why is he wearing the Huo family's exclusive dress? This dress is the only one. Did he rob Beckham? No old woman This dress was given by Huo Junyao. It was raised by Xiaoguo and Beckham alone Mrs. Huo Two days ago This child claims to be the young master of the Huo family outside And bullying people everywhere How dare you steal a dress Master San, don't sow discord here I'm not wrong. Mrs. Huo You saw it too If you have a stepmother, you will have a stepfather. Mr. Huo supports him so much In the future, Young Master Huo will definitely be wronged Junyao for your child Let Beckham give up the dress Jane Straight bastard The old lady is not what you think What did he explain? They haven't married into the Huo family yet If you really marry Mr. Huo Then Young Master Huo doesn't know how much bullying he will suffer? God Young Master Huo is the most respected young master in Nancheng He even gave his clothes to his children The little master himself does not have it I'm afraid it will be even more pitiful this time I don't care what you do Let Junhao die for you But without my consent The Huo family won't let you in Grandma, you can't do this to Mommy little bastard Who do you call grandma? You not only stole Young Master Huo's father He also wants to steal his great-grandmother shut up sour eye I think your skin is itchy Mrs. Huo You see it. He dares to act wildly in Huo Jiang I didn't take you seriously An indiscreet woman like him It must have used some means below Seduced Mr. Huo Mr. Huo always put the ring that represents the identity of the Huo family Gave it to him Does that identify him? Can you fascinate Mr. Huo like this? No wonder this kid is so arrogant After that, he bullied the little master Will Mr. Huo help him get ahead? I have only one request for Junyao's wife That is to be nice to Beckham I never thought of that. You can't do such a simple thing. This ring is what I pass on to the next generation You immediately Take it off for me right now Madam, this is all a misunderstanding. Don't be fooled by his one-sided words Don't say anything Beckham is my heart I will not allow anyone to bully him I already have a choice for Junyao's wife That's Beckham's birth mother. A biological mother He will not let his children be wronged. Stop hitting on the Huo family No wonder Beckham once said that Mrs. Huo loved him the most old lady You really misunderstood. What's the misunderstanding? This dress is all on him private message Come Take this ignorant mother and son Blow me out Sunanqin wants to marry Huo Junyi Hmph don't send Grandma and Mommy didn't bully you. Grandma and Mommy didn't bully me Of course he didn't bully you, little bastard He bullied Young Master Huo I am Master Huo Hey, Mrs. Huo Look at him pretending to be Young Master Huo again How dare you scold my great-grandson Mrs. Su He is Su Xiaoguo Not Master Huo careful liver Why are you here? And What did you just call him? Warm man, he is my mommy What nonsense are you talking about? Bad Woman Bad woman, you are bullying your brother again How can they look exactly the same? Jin Yao What the hell is going on? grandma Her name is Xiaoguo Growing up next to Nan Qin She and Beckham are twins. I actually have two great-grandchildren Good grandson Let grandma take a good look at you His grandmother, I am Xiaoguo Do you like me? Ouch, I like it. I like it. Grandma loves you so much That's impossible. That's not possible. How could Sunan's new child be Mr. Huo's? Mingming he What did you just say? You know how my child came to be You mess with other men How should I know? I warned you before Don't step into my Huo house Who let you in? Mr. Huo, I'm here to make Anshenwan for Mrs. Huo It seems that you haven't eaten enough from the last lesson. It's not your turn to worry about my Huo family Mr. Bao Huo I'm really kind. That's enough! If so Then I see There is no need for your Su family to exist in Kyoto anymore Mr. Huo For the sake of me delivering medicine to the old lady Please spare me this time This Anshenwan can only be developed in one year I am the savior of the immortal lady I'm mom. Mi prepared a box of Anshen Pills for her grandmother Do you still need this one? After your last treatment Did you take a good rest as prescribed by your doctor? You are Dr. Su who saved my life last time Ouch, Dr. Su I was too arbitrary just now. I was provoked because I was afraid that Beckham would be wronged. So confused Director Su, please don't take it to heart. It's okay old lady I know you are like this because you feel sorry for Xiaofei. This is a box of Anshen Pills. Take one tablet a day. Guaranteed to prolong your life How is that possible? This pill is priceless There's no way he could afford that many. Of course you can't buy it. Because my mom made it especially for his grandma Song Nanqing never went to college She couldn't have developed it Later, Mrs. This must be a Sanwu product. You can't eat it. Anshen Pills can only be developed by an Anti doctor Dr. Su is a physician Yes, my mommy is super awesome How is that possible? How could she be Dr. Anting? It's the mud under my feet. She can't She couldn't have developed it Do you think you know me well Ah, so you lied to me. Made me take out all the furniture I'm going to kill you! Come Don't drag this crazy woman down for me Let go of me! Mommy Can our family finally be reunited? I want Daddy and Mommy to be together He already knew about the child and lied to me You don't have a father Go mommy take you home Hello Qingqing Do you blame me for hiding it from you? Mr. Huo is strategizing Play people in the palm of your hand I admire you. It's too late. How can I blame you? Blame myself for being stupid and ignorant green It's my fault But I didn't mean to I, you know Huo Zongqingqing You better stop screaming Our relationship seems to be still Not so close Mommy, just listen to the replacement explanation I'm afraid Mommy will take us away like this It turns out that Mr. Huo went to great lengths Just to keep two children i Isn't this to get closer to the two children? But you let me i Daddy you are so stupid Go after it Can't get Mommy back I took my brother and mommy and said I wasn't coming back This Huo Qunyao usually looks clever I didn't expect my mouth to be so stupid Xiaoguo and Beckham too Don't go with your sister, it hurts you in vain I knew you two would come to me Why is the person missing? brother I thought I saw my sister-in-law driving a sedan just now. Headed to the suburbs Will everything be okay? Something must have happened. I knew you two would come to me Zhu Nanqing wants to know how you got pregnant back then Come find me in this place with 50 million in cash Remember that you are only allowed to come here alone Hello I haven't figured it out for so many years How did I get pregnant? Now the truth is finally coming out Dad, you said that Su Naixin has found the child Will he come again? This is his knot He will definitely come. I have arrived Now you can tell the truth. How do I know if it's true or not? You think everyone is as sinister as you Can you say it now? You can only blame it 5 years ago When you first became an adult You want your mother's company back? So I told my dad Find a chance to kick you out of the Su family Su Nanqing, I really hate you Why are you the rich lady that others say? I'm the ugly illegitimate daughter You should ask your mom that. Who asked her to be a mistress for someone else? No wonder others Bah It's all your fault and your mom's How long has your mother been dead? Still haunting Did you know that my mother always I will come back from the party with tears This is all because of you. Want to earn the respect of others Rely on yourself It's not about identity. Su Wanying All I've ever hated is you Never hated me So when you came to Su's house I give you everything But what did you do to me? You pity me. The more pitiful you are, the more humble I am. Tell you you're a hypocrite So you hold a grudge? Designed me to get pregnant out of wedlock Hahaha Right. What I didn't expect was Our hypocritical father For money Agreed for the company What are you I'll tell you what. I brought these people in the back. If you don't listen Fight with you All right. I don't want to hear your nonsense anymore I just want to know how I doubted And who sent Beckham to the Huo family? The more you want to know, the less I say Go get the money With this bag of money I can go abroad to enjoy myself Why is only the first floor rich? It's all white paper You bitch How dare you lie to me? You all come down and kill him See you have fun Ah! Wow Are you all right? Why are you here? Eat a few of them first OK The two people you have trusted will also solve the problem. The remaining 3 are half each I don't take advantage of you I haven't finished asking where I want to go yet We really didn't do that girl thing Who the hell did you send her to the Huo family? It's the nurse. My dad and I paid for it back then The nurse went to the vault to get a gold I didn't expect that the gold was wanted by Huo Jun What did you just say? After you gave birth to Beckham And we gave the baby to the nurse. What happened next we really don't know So that nurse back then was because Knowing that you are his biological father I threatened you and took the money to save you If you hadn't taken a look at that Beckham No if Jinqing Beckham is by your side now You know the truth You can let me go now. Let you go You almost killed Hui You think I let you go? Come Take them to the police station Hurry up! You let me go By the way, take those good things that Su Hongrui did Make a document Send it to Jing Juyue And don't leave that nurse behind. Take away green green How have you been? It's okay, it should have been strained just now. In fact, I should thank you Your sister and the nurse Thank them for what Without them There is no Beckham and Tani And here's the thing. I may not meet you You don't have to wrong yourself for your two children. Stay with me Who is wronged by me? Qingqing, I really like you. I don't know if you love me or not I'm afraid you know I know the truth about the child Then negotiate with me to leave Pardon me? I said I was grateful The person I like is a mother of two children you like me I didn't say I didn't like you. Then let's get the certificate now. Now the Civil Affairs Bureau has long been closed. Then you promise me I don't have it. Kiki I missed you for five years I can't miss you anymore Shall we go home now?