Hello and greetings from Iceland. This day will be remembered for the lava berms that not only rescued Iceland's oldest geothermal power plant but also the Blue Lagoon. It is as simple as that. So this is a good day. Even though we can write off the car park by the blue lagoon. And also a little service house. But that was just a small modular house that can be easily replaced, even tomorrow. So this day is a historic day as for the battle a day that ended well based on good calculations and of course the workers that came in this morning with their machines to close the last remaining gaps in front of the Blue Lagoon. So even though we lost this car park, that is nothing. It's easy to fix that. But let's go with the lava flow and the work first from this photo from this morning where we can see the lava coming down from a different angle than usual, since the middle part of the fissure was a bit further to the north east than usual. It was three kilometers long last night, and this afternoon it was little over two km. long But it is, however, still plenty of magma left under there so this could go on for some time, And the lava was extremely fluid and fast flowing this time. And the first problem we encountered was the hot water pipeline from the geothermal power plant. Or this is 600 meter long parts of it. And it's not just that pipeline. We have a cold water pipeline beside it, and we actually lost those pipelines under lava last January They were supposed to handle the heat since some preparations had been made back then to protect them, And they left us with every house on the Reykjanes Peninsula without central heating. 30.000 people And that was during cold the days so hot water had to be trucked from Reykjavik and pumped in to the system in order to prevent major damages. And this is how the pipeline looked after those repairs back then. I flew over a couple of times because I had the feeling that this would end up in the news again. And the lucky us, this last repair it is holding with an extra layer of gravel on top of the pipeline. But the electricity cable snapped. But it's less of a problem due to backup generators. So it will be an easy fix when things cool down. But I have to admit that as for this day It was a bit absurd to see the lava flow over the Blue Lagoon car park. I have spent many dull moments there. Days and nights, waiting for eruptions in order to be close by before the area would be evacuated. But I have also many good memories When I've been using a car park as a drone platform flying around. But now it's just gone. All we see are just a few light poles sticking up like toothpicks on a burnt chocolate cake. But on the bright side, those lava berms they did what we expected of them and rescued Iclandsds most valuable tourist spot and our oldest geothermal power plant. And around 1000 jobs. And right now, the lava is spreading out around the car park, pushing against the lava berms to the north. But to the west there is an old the lava field that forms this natural defense wall. So the lava is currently spreading out to the south from the carpark. And if this goes on for a few more days, it might flow over this all the lava field that creates this barrier now and follow But it won't go any further than that. There is a little hill beside the mountain that prevents the lava from flowing into town, and we have bulldozers already working on solutions to prevent more lava At least get some control of the situation, and that might be possible since the lava flow is already decreasing and easier to handle. But the Blue Lagoon it won't open up in a couple of days. Like I was saying last night. It might be possible without this car park for 300 cars. If they were to offer bus fares from Reykjavik or Keflavik. But we are, however, stuck with the fact that the lava flowed over yet another part of the highway and also parts of the new highway. But we do However, know from lots of experience now that it takes around 1 or 2 weeks to make a new road on that warm lava and that road will of course be free of ice for some time. But until then, we have a secondary road that runs through Grindavik So there are ways to open up the Blue Lagoon quite fast again. But this leaves us, of course, with a drastic and historical landscape chance that might actually do us good to no longer an assured tourism. But as for the future, in terms of geology, things remain even more uncertain There was this slowed down and magma before the last eruption, and the magma inflow before this one It was a bit different than we've got used to. So there is something different going on, and the scientists have already started to speculate, Like Professor Magnus Tumi Gudmundsson, He was commenting in the Icelandic media today, and he is saying now that this series of volcanic eruptions is coming to an end and this could be the last eruption although we could get 1 or 2 more. But enough about science. I am still up in North Iceland. I had the chance to take off today, but it's a bit of a risk to drive. 1000 kilometers just for the leftovers of this eruption. And that is actually plenty of good footage out there now. So my addition would, likely not get the attention it needs to pay the petrol I might go to Reykjavik tomorrow, but I'm just going to see how this develops And during those times when it's plenty of footage out there. I feel it's more need for simple explanations. It's and has been my trademark. So I'm going to chill for a while with this issue. And when I make my move, I will come back with something different. And I have actually been extremely busy here in the north and after it started to snow, I have been doing a few short tours to come up with footage for a long Christmas video that I'm making. It's a good method to get away from the regular workflow so when get bored in front of the computer but it's a new camera and I don't know the focus system very well, so I need all the practice I can get and this shot is actually a failed shot. As for the focus but it was not a failed shot as for the smile and sometimes that this is not for me despite the technical issues. So this is a smile to my viewers and my channel supporters to say that we got lucky this time One cold carpark gone, one new hot car park already there, for free and this could have been so much worse. And this I'm sending you best regards from the volcano island, Iceland.