He was one of the most influential and talented But he was also one of the most complex - generous devoted family man, womanizer and volatile, He lived a life on the edge - full of excitement, Sow, just how did the skinny Italian kid from and the world's first true multi-media artist? In this week's Biographics we go behind of the Board. Early Years Francis Albert Sinatra was born on December He was the only child of Italian immigrants, As such he was pampered by his parents, who on their son. Still, little Frankie grew up lonely and alone. Martin Sinatra was a down to earth, easy going His mother was just the opposite, driven, the driving force of the family. She belonged to every organization in Hoboken character. While both of his parents worked, young Frank If he wasn't home alone, he'd be wandering how to become street smart. He grew up in a world of prohibition, bootleggers School was never a priority for the teenage He would often skip class to hang out in pool He soon developed a reputation as a stubborn, Often the subject of racial taunts, he would A friend recalled that once he and Frank were 'Hey you little wop,' to Frank. His friend told him to keep on walking but I'm gonna' walk all over his face! The only problem was that Frank didn't really He got beaten to a pulp. When his friend asked him if it was worth Hell, yeah . . . He'll never call me a wop However, two days later, the same thing happened By the age of sixteen, Frank had ditched school He worked at a series of odd jobs, including But he often got bored and would quite a solid When he walked out on his job working in the had had enough. He referred to his son as a 'quitter' If you want to be a bum, go somewhere else Frank didn't have to be told twice. He packed up his few belongings in a suitcase By now he had set his sights on making it But no doors opened for the skinny Italian He couldn't find any employment at all, With nowhere to stay and no money for food, Outwardly Dolly mocked her son's singing Singer before smacking him on the head. But behind the scenes, she began visiting a chance. This resulted in a short-term gig in a Hoboken But the job didn't last - Frank got into the door. When he was seventeen, Dolly and Marty lent portable public address system and sheet music This put him a step ahead of other aspiring Frank then began collecting orchestrations. He later explained his strategy . . . I had them. If the local orchestra wanted to use my arrangements, and up-to-the-minute collection, they had In this way, Frank managed to establish a His hero was Bing Crosby, and he tried to But when he noticed virtually every other he made the decision to establish his own Frank, Nancy &amp; Success In the summer of 1934, the eighteen-year-old who came from a poor family in Jersey City, Nancy was sitting on her front porch doing a ukulele in his hand. His opening line was . . . I could use a manicure too! The spark was lit and the romance blossomed They lived one town apart and Frank would Nancy. During these years, Frank was building his Most gigs would pay around two dollars a night. Sometimes he performed at roadhouses for nothing Frank's first break came on September 8th, NBC radio show Major Bowes and His Original The show was broadcast live from the Capitol Frank teamed up with a group called the Three They performed the Bing Crosby hit 'Shine' forerunner to American Idol. Listeners phoned in to vote for their favorite that Major Bowes invited them to return several However, the radio show appearances didn't Frank returned to Hoboken and soon found himself In 1939, Frank and Nancy were married. Not long after that Frank was singing in a In the audience was Harry James, a big band James was impressed with Frank's way of He invited Sinatra to audition the next day. Although there were a lot of others who showed the matter was settled. He made his debut with the Harry James Band in Baltimore. The rest of that summer and into the fall By 1940 Sinatra's popularity was growing Then he switched bands mid-stream, jumping Tommy Dorsey Orchestra. The deal that Frank struck, though was hardly He would give up a third of his earnings for But all that the young Frank, who had recently famous. And besides, he would end up with more each With the Tommy Dorsey Band, Frank travelled He ended up in Hollywood, California. In 1942, the band, with Sinatra out fron,t With the band behind him Frank had built up He appeared on the radio, in concert halls, By the end of 1942, he was one of the most he had replaced Bing Crosby as Billboard's with the band. Going Solo By the end of 1942, Frank had made up his He was clearly the star attraction of the needed him, he was more than able to hold When he told Dorsey of his intentions, the But Frank was determined and finally Dorsey He did insist, however, that the contract remain in place. Frank decided that he would worry about the For now he would get out before Dorsey changed Sinatra made his solo debut on his 27th birthday, In the audience that night was Bob Weitman, He was so impressed that he asked Benny Goodman, on a bill with him at the Paramount. Goodman's response was . . . He would soon find out. Sinatra's appearances at the Paramount made It was the start of the type of hysteria, that would later greet Elvis and the Beatles. When Frank hit the stage, the theater erupted before. In 1944, with his popularity soaring, Frank Frank Sinatra, junior joined older sister kept ascending. His record sales topped the billings and he Losing It fame rose to yet another level. He was contracted by Hollywood to star in the last. Yet, in his personal life, things were starting He was away from home so much that he hardly Then, in 1947, Frank met and fell in love Gardner. The two began a very public affair, which the older demographic. At the same time, the 31-year-old of crooner's and he was also being attacked by mainstream It was said that his fight against segregation Reporters also began claiming that he dodged Leading the print assault on Sinatra was reporter On April 8th, 1947, the two men came face Frank went straight up to the reporter, called him as a punching bag. Frank's bodyguards quickly broke it up, Next time I see you, I'll kill you, you Mortimer had Frank arrested and charged with The charge resulted in Sinatra's gun permit Mortimer later sued for $250,000, and the Unwise Associates choice of associates could impact his career. In 1947, not long after the beat up on Mortimer, Lucky Luciano. The mob connection was to stick to him for Despite the affair with Ava Gardner, Nancy She gave birth to a third child, Christina, But the new addition did not bring Frank back His fascination with Ava was greater than Unlike Nancy, Ava could match him drink for for tantrum. They were the ideal hard living couple. That hard living had a price. In 1949, Frank's voice gave out. That combined with public reaction to his sales and chart numbers. His radio show was dropped and MGM cancelled It looked like the show was over for the man In 1951, Nancy finally divorced from Frank. In short order, Sinatra married Ava Gardner. He had formalized his love life, but it seemed his failing career. The public had become disenchanted with him, Coming Back early 1950's that Sinatra read a book called When he learned that a movie version was being be his road back to the top. He set his sights on securing the role of Frank secured an audition and then proceeded WAS Maggio. He won the part - and gave the performance Sinatra won the Oscar for Best Supporting The following month he signed a recording career was back on track. It appeared that losing his fame and then He now wore his heart on his sleeve in his with the audience. He became the first, and the best, musical brought him the male audience that he had In Sinatra they saw the tender tough guy that Sinatra's marriage to Ava Gardner was tumultuous career was going fro9m strength to strength. By the late 1950's, he was well and truly His Album Come Fly With Me hit Number One weeks. At the same time his movie career was hitting In The Man With Golden Arm he gave an extraordinary The 1960's saw the emergence of a new brand Realizing that he couldn't ignore it, Sinatra albums. In the early 60's Sinatra also became a However, Frank had maintained his association Attorney General Robert Kennedy was concerned figures too close to the President. He managed to sever the relationship between Sinatra's last great movie role was 1962's US Army officer Bennet Marco. After that he appeared to become bored with on the set. His attention had switched to Las Vegas, the There he and his buddies became known as the Along with Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Junior, a mixture of stand-up comedy and lounge music Then, in December of 1963, Sinatra's fun when his 19-year-old son, Frank Junior, was Sinatra appealed to Robert Kennedy, who called The ransom was paid, Frank Junior released, of the ransom being returned. In 1964, while filming Von Ryan's Express, Farrow hanging around the set. The star of a popular night time soap opera, constant companion. The 30 year age gap provided plenty for the In 1965, the 50-year-old singer won an Emmy The following year he recorded one of his in the Night. That same year, 1966, Sinatra and Mia were However, Mia's mellow hippie style was out the union only lasted sixteen months. Following the divorce and finding himself began looking for a new musical direction rock and roll that was popular at the time. He found what he was looking for in the form Anka. The song, which Frank recorded in 1969, has In 1970, to the shock of his legion of fans, He said that he was tired of show business and think. But just as he prepared to take life easy, He was summoned to a congressional hearing mafia. Lack of evidence forced the Congressional heat went off Sinatra. Retirement never sat easily with Frank and, trail. This time his focus would be on concert performances. He leapt back into the public consciousness Blue Eyes Is Back.' From there he went on fill all of the concert He sang directly to his audience dressed in done. In 1976, the 60-year old Sinatra married for His bride was 45-year-old Barbara Marx. She travelled with him as he played to ever By the 1980's the Chairman of the Board He campaigned for Ronald Reagan, and helped Then, in 1988, the 73-year-old paired with The audiences loved it. In 1993, Frank made use of a technological Sinatra Duets.' He sang along with 13 top recording artists, The record became a number one platinum bestseller, After more than a century he was back on top. Sinatra lived out the last five years of his He was plagued by ill health, often going Then dementia set in. He passed away on May 14, 1998 at Cedar Sinai cause of death being heart attack. On May 15th, the Empire State building was Las Vegas came to a halt in tribute to the