An educated lady known to be of impeccable pauses for a brief second, looking outside at in the street. $12,000 is fine. Just do it ASAP." "For $4,000, we'll throw acid in her face, and woman shakes her head. "No, just kill her." this woman was talking about could have been you. killers, and even cannibals, who've all at some Internet. You'll hear why this is not a place you First of all, you should know where you're it's hidden within something called the of the internet not accessible and that makes up most of the net. The dark web To get there, you'll have to download such as the Tor browser. This should give you not always the case. Tor was invented by the US and today you can find journalists and activists them in a spot of trouble. WikiLeaks, although it also publishes on the open web. some software and start using the dark web. It's which is what you're going to hear about in this you might just be a curious sort of person who but by doing this there is always wrong virtual alleyway and find yourself in a also be a marked man after this, or worse... on the dark web, we should first talk about have met a person who told you they ordered the and it was delivered to their door but listen on before you put your order in for ecstasy pills that look like little LEGO bricks. with one former big fan of the dark web run by cartels." He explained that just about any including "precursors". You fans of Breaking Bad to make certain drugs, such as crystal meth. drugs are often pretty reliable since there is might find a comment that says, "Grade A coke and there was a seller with the name Jesus of Rave. On "Working with UK distributors, importers, and ship and aim to get your order out same to our attitude to your and our privacy. It seems that ordering drugs on the dark web in are also lots of recent news reports stating that had increased dramatically, with the drugs mostly on the dark web. The Guardian wrote in 2019: are major producers and exporters of synthetic but there is said to have been a growth services are exploited. The US, Australia, and New The same article said that a sting operation firearms. That same year, a dark web site called Germany, and arrests were made. The owners were and speed, as well as malicious software, worked in six languages: English, French, At the time, prosecutors wrote, "WSM operated as eBay and Amazon. However, its sole existence As you probably know, the money to be made dealers or traffickers is like playing a game of pops up. The war on drugs has been nothing but a looking like Sisyphus, that guy who was told he'd This means two things. One thing is that you can still go on the dark web right now and order that you can be assured that some men with badges is why it is dangerous. You might think you can but you actually don't. The FBI and other law This is the problem with the dark web: You can have impunity, they can get careless. people were arrested in an operation called the US, and Australia were involved and about In this case, no small-time buyers were arrested, else. Many of the drugs these days contain works well in hospitals for pain relief and but the truth is, there have been including ones involving famous taken a drug like cocaine and died because As we write this, five people died all at when they didn't know their powder contained have chosen numerous stories that included We don't condone drug use here, but then the safest thing would be to know what you you really don't know what you are getting and not care too much about what they are giving you. will ever be arrested. We even found a story tablets." Rave to the Grave might be the while it could save tens of thousands, the authorities for the most part have always easily available drug testing equipment. get arrested. There was a story in 2020 that bust involving multiple drugs and guns, and some US, and the others in the UK, Germany, Sweden, the authorities claimed that the "golden age of been claiming to be winning the war on drugs since Nonetheless, Europol had a warning for "The hidden internet is no longer hidden, Law enforcement is committed to tracking down the streets or behind a computer screen." as can be seen in one story involving a "Florida work was mostly the distribution of cocaine. He mail, and guess what, once he was arrested the We'll add one more thing here- some people on but all they are after is your personal that information, and as you'll soon see, though, they are phishing in order to get their on the dark web, but you can also be phished. you're not really into anything illegal, but told you they had a video of a man being cut up Unfortunately, gore sites are all over the open to post videos of such things as someone being great big dish of steaming poop, sometimes what unless of course you are either desensitized weird side. That makes up a lot of society, the day called Best Gore was getting in The owner of best Gore was eventually "1 Lunatic 1 Ice Pick", which consisted of an dismembering a guy and then sending some of the Obviously, that was a very serious crime and you know the story, you will know that before he tail because some of the videos consisted So, maybe one day you get on the dark web and although we guess right now some of you are big wusses. Maybe a bit of gore is nothing to you. worst gore talked about that is supposedly talk. You may have heard that you can watch aka, a snuff movie, but they may not actually or the rumors about certain films are just rumors. do exist, and it is not illegal for you "It's illegal to murder somebody. It's illegal it. But it's not illegal to watch an online You wouldn't, for instance, have video that surfaced on the web made by These two Ukrainian teenagers brutally murdered violence. For a time, you might have been but not anymore. Still, as we speak, people are One journalist went there to check out such gore, desensitized to it. He said in an article, "I showing you stuff now, but the second or the third to it all. It happens to a lot of people." and the more you watch, the worse that gets. We your mental well-being, but this guy said people drives people to do it. It's just pure evil. Why truth is there is a lot of evil out there." rabbit holes and really see something you wish very much illegal. Your curiosity could possibly people were arrested in 38 countries because they the police said, "They're not as they're not as safe as they think they are." you're on the dark web. There was a recent forum in the dark web about killing his on how he might do it. He wrote, "I aim to ideally long after our divorce is finalized (about begin a new life with full custody of my child." which he said he might put in her coffee, feet while she was asleep. He then tried to buy They later explained to the media that it was "a liquid" that can be "easily absorbed through the effects with only a single drop." paying $95 for a 10-milliliter vial. The problem arrested him after he went to the place he'd he admitted to the murder plot, and said he'd hitman but he told agents that "hiring a hitman Hiring a hitman on the dark web could also you could have visited a so-called hitman-for-hire "If you want to kill someone, we are the right throughout the entire USA, Canada, and Europe One guy was told that he could have his wife an accident. A bunch of such sites were around Ndrangheta Hitmen, Camorra Hitmen, were all actually owned by the same person. international network of experienced hitmen kill customers' targets. We assign hitmen in the skills that match the job specifications." never even intended to kill anyone. He just took have been instances when someone went on after payment was made, the person got arrested. and it later happened to a woman in Denmark boyfriend. A very recent case included a on the dark web and tried to hire a hitman She paid $12,000 in Bitcoin and a further was seen by the FBI. The agency also saw her first in southern Florida. Is anyone available?" who'd had her own financial consulting She was sentenced to six and a half years in although it looked real enough. It for "death by shooting", $20,000 for "death by Another recent case involved a man in Italy for men to go visit his girlfriend and beat although news stories didn't state exactly how. by such a website that she believed had She gave the site $5,000 to knock off her husband. the US who never killed anyone but pretended to This is a murky area since such websites The owner of the site told the media that since were looking to have someone killed and a few guy said about 10 percent of the people and that's when he informed the cops. on the dark web, you never quite know with whom you would think it would be funny to talk to a but even that could get you in trouble. Still, always waited a day to ask the person if they got on the phone with law enforcement. Talking "I get an email from a woman saying she needed she sent a second email with the names and The woman was a British-Canadian who said the she should have received from her father. even. She was gonna stop at nothing. I reached out this lady is serious, can we request a welfare She was eventually sent to prison for a few website owner was proud, saying he helped save question if this woman would have had those The web is full of these stories. One website but would torture them to death, although $50,000. Painless poisoning was $42,000. An acid Not only are these sites scams, but even if how will they ask for their money back? talking to and there is no way they can These days the newest hitman websites on the dark scams out there, but that they are the real proof of our services, with time stamps. Again, Sometimes they will go to great lengths to look some dude to set a car on fire and film it just to It was later found out that the guy who'd who'd contacted the website and said he somehow The website in this case was called Besa media after it was discovered that after a man never happened, he then killed her himself. people on the dark web, which in general We can find only one instance when it has been and actually went through with the murder. boys killed a drug trafficker for if you go to the dark web and try to hire someone lose a lot of money and then end up in prison. British man named Matthew Falder, a person Using the names '666devil' and 'evil-mind', about all manner of disgusting things, was to lure people online into thinking he'd ask them to make very compromising videos seemed sincere, people fell for it. Falder geophysicist researcher at Birmingham University. said that if the victims didn't pay him a whack knew. In one message, he told a young victim Facebook associated with your school, and explaining with printouts of all the Most of the victims were naive and it wasn't manipulate them. In some cases, he told them to dog food, after which he posted the content to post to those fans, "Glad you are all enjoying especially forcing someone met online to do Imagine visiting websites where people like that person and not knowing what you were getting into. wrote on Reddit that not too long ago web and had given an address, only for him The letter stated, "Congrats you BLEEP. You have have had our eye on you." The man didn't send but this is just another example you are potentially making yourself vulnerable. do is just to pretend to be something they're not people sometimes roleplay very dark fantasies. blackmailed if you meet the wrong person. York City police officer who got the name the A few years ago he was sentenced to a prison term talking about how he wanted to kill and eat women, found those disturbing messages on his computer. list of around 100 women whose names and addresses messages about his wife said that he wanted to let It was a big case at the time because this guy he said his conversations on the and he never intended for anyone to get hurt. more and more people wanted to do these role kind of wanted to provide and be a little more the competitive side of me came out." stuff was out in the open, but make no mistake, a lot more. He was eventually cleared and released just how much can you just talk about crimes Can you roleplay online or just mess about some of our viewers would try this with and to understand the depravity of certain people In 2018, a man in the US went on the dark web "I'd like to try cannibalism, and see how it let me kill you, are in the US (preferably in His name was Alexander Nathan Barter and First of all, yet again we are showing you what but secondly, even if you yourself posted should know that not long after Barter posted for the Texas Department of Public Safety. to give his daughter to Barter for the expressed other emails were exchanged, in which Barter set of clothes and a burner phone. In another Barter was arrested on the day and on him at his house was a knife and some twisted fantasy, or would he have really done it? 40 years in prison. In court, the prosecution online talk is not always just talk. The partners has prevented an evildoer and bringing his grisly plan to fruition." was called The Cannibal Cafe. When it was still "I really fantasize about being Then in 2001, a computer specialist in Germany named Armin Meiwes killed a His victim was Bernd Jurgen Armando Brandes. Both men were in their 40s when they The two met and let's just say what happened and in the end, bits of Brande ended up in he'd had since he was a child became Meiwes told the court that for many years but it was when he found a real-life cannibalism possibility. He added, "If I hadn't been so I would have taken my secret to the grave." happened on the open web, but that was back shop about eating people, you'd struggle to do you with the Texan guy, the dark web is the You might find a forum with someone saying "I need someone to eat my fresh meat. I am juicy people are just messing around for the sake of enforcement could be reading such messages, As another example, one guy we found said he did said on a forum, "I was trying to make a small make with my friends. I found myself in the dark had a text document downloaded talking about how probably all over me right now." There might not be any Red Rooms on the dark or ghastly human experiments with homeless and torture fans only too happy to share person who wants to chat about eating human of folks who want to sell you guns, drugs, might also be law enforcement or blackmailers. downright evil, or a dedicated journalist go there? The real reason you shouldn't visit you aren't any of the things we just mentioned, as full of snakes as it is, is best get yourself flagged by law enforcement or to wade through a lot of junk to get there. we just mentioned, "Why DARK WEB HITMAN