Welcome to Central Asia and the Caucasus. Two fascinating regions on the crossroads of Asia and Europe. From mesmerizing monuments along the ancient Silk Road, From eye-catching modern skylines to charming historic monasteries. These often overlooked regions provide some of the most I went to all eight countries in this remarkable corner of the world. And in this video I will share with you my personal top 10 places to visit. We begin our journey in Samarkand, one of the Located in the heart of Uzbekistan, Samarkand has long evoked From Alexander the Great and Genghis Khan, who to Timur, who revived the city with some of the most such as the Registan, and Shah-i-Zinda. You can spend days exploring the incredible monuments, which provide a great insight into daily life in the region. Our next destination is Baku, the dynamic capital city of Azerbaijan. It is the largest city in the Southern Caucasus, and is fueled in part by the booming petroleum industry. Its skyline is changing constantly, with modern skyscrapers Walk through the atmospheric alleys of the old town, to get an idea of the different faces of the city. And visit the beautiful Bulvar, a long seafront park We travel onwards to the Pamir Highway, to embark on a journey through one of Central Asia's most remote regions. From the narrow Wakhan Valley, bordering Afghanistan, The unforgiving landscape of high altitude plateaus and soaring Along the way you find small villages and settlements, where local communities welcome visitors with open arms. The region has long relied on outside help, especially But a recent boost in tourism and a focus on self-sufficiency Conditions in the Pamirs remain challenging however, Many travelers use their own transport, or charter Next up is the Fergana Valley, a remarkably Much of the country's fruit and cotton is produced here, Where everything under the Central Asian sun seems to be traded. The valley contains dozens of small villages, Here you can visit the Yodgorlik silk factory, where much of the unlike many other factories in the region. Every step is on display, from the steaming and unravelling Also worth a look is Rishton, where an estimated 1,000 artists and workers create some of Uzbekistan's finest ceramics and pottery. We continue our journey in Astana, now known as Nur-Sultan, named after Kazakhstan's long serving former president. The nation's capital boasts some spectacular futuristic architecture, and attracts people from across the country to work, study and live. It's located in the center of Kazakhstan, surrounded by vast grasslands, and sometimes nicknamed as Dubai of the Steppe. It's a pleasant place to visit, with wide boulevards, Come in the right season though, as Nur-Sultan For our next destination, we go back to the Caucasus, Tbilisi enjoys a beautiful setting, surrounded by mountains, Some of the city's main attractions include the narrow alleyways from where you get stunning panoramic views of Tbilisi. Make your way through the city center, past local artists painting to visit the spectacular Tsminda Sameba cathedral. Consecrated in 2004, the cathedral is an important place of worship And one of the city's most eye-catching landmarks. We travel further to Kyrgyzstan, to get a glimpse of the Almost two thirds of the population in Kyrgyzstan live in the countryside, and many retain parts of their nomadic background. A land of mountains and lakes, the area became popular who decided to settle here for its green pastures, and strategic location. Today, many shepherd families continue to move around, followed by herds of sheep, and more recently curious tourists. You are welcome to stay in a yurt, see how they are made, and if you're lucky, attend a traditional horse game festival. Several grassroots organizations have developed a connecting travelers with local guides, drivers, and families across the country. Providing a great opportunity to get up close, After Kyrgyzstan we briefly stop in Ashgabat, the capital city of Turkmenistan, one of the world's most mysterious and closed countries. Regarded as a secretive dictatorship, many people here something you should keep in mind when traveling here. Entering Ashgabat can be a surreal experience, with massive Further downtown you find extravagant palaces with golden domes, mostly financed with oil and gas money. I only spent a few hours in Ashgabat, due to visa restrictions, but would gladly return to explore more of this peculiar city. We travel onwards to Yerevan, Armenia's friendly capital city. While the city may lack eye-catching landmarks, the vibrant atmosphere Stroll around the city's Opera and Republic Square, embrace the for stunning panoramic views over the city. Yerevan is also a good base to explore some of While some are close to the city, others are better We finish our journey in Bukhara, a captivating which rivals the beauty of Samarkand. An important stop on the ancient Silk Road, it has long The city is full of beautiful monuments. From intriguing mosques to the remains of the Ark, Wandering the narrow alleyways and pleasant parks, you come And your nose will guide you to one of the many bakeries, where people bake delicious Central Asian bread in tandoor And that concluded my personal top 10 places to visit two surprisingly beautiful and rewarding travel destinations. I hope this video gave you some inpsiration for the future, or at least If you enjoyed watching, feel free to give a like and leave a comment below. Thanks for your support and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely!