All right, So check it out. This is my new grader. I just paid 7500 bucks for this. Seems pretty good, though. It's all wheel drive. A lot of them aren't It's a pretty good size. It's got the side shift on the blade. It's got the plow blade. Or you can install you can have the rippers in So you can this whole rear end, like sideways. The idea with this is, is Perfect, because like you could say, like, But no, the thing with a bulldozer, But as far as getting if you want to drive like, you can't really do that of a bulldozer And this can just kind of do that That's what this is meant to do, smooth so you can drive, The brakes aren't too good. I got to fix those. But they kind of work and it made it up here So that's pretty impressive right there. Okay, so start. This is our rotation that makes the blade rotate down the left side. Same thing. Up, Down on this side. We have floats. Okay, so that's float for this Side shift that moves This one is for the articulation. This is high, low in the transmission. And this is our regular. We got a three speed and reverse. Our plow, right side float, throttle clutch, brake pedal that goes to the floor. But it does kind of sort of stop you have to register this? All right. So this is last on the road. I don't know why, 2002, it's a 1969 wow. Look at that. The parking brake works. That's awesome. I did not expect that. This master The master cylinder is leaking right Blue, want to go grade stuff? I ran this for a good hour But overall, this thing works good. The brakes are a little messed up. Other than that, it's good. All right. I was trying to make, like, the blade Like you see some graders can I guess don't do that I don't know. I did it wrong. It looks bigger two and three quarter two and a half. It's completely empty. step on the brakes. Lift it up. Step on it, lift it up. Just keep pumping it, step on the brake, let it up, step on it, let it up, let it up. Just just pump it a whole bunch. It's not I don't know why Try now that's good. It was clogged up Glad I had these on it. Step on it slow, please. ok, good This is full of stuff Yeah, that's good. step on it Let it up. Step on it. Let it up. All right, step on it. Let it up. How do the brakes feel? It feels good, still leaking though Yeah, that is leaking Yeah. At east All right, So I put Stone down on this, It's been rolled. When you try to drive over 20 miles an hour, The very subtle bumps in the road, especially in the hall truck. They really limit your speed. Lets see if we can get some of those bumps out. that's a little different. But the same threads. We messing you by talking? No, just installing a brake master cylinder This looks like it's fitting. Is that lining up in there? like that. Step on it Dave let it up step on it let it up step on it Step on it. Let it up. Step on it Pump it a few times. How's it feel? It's going right to the floor though? step on it, let it up. Step on it It was working. Dan: How does it work? On the drumb right there? Yeah, that's should. It's a little troubling, Step on it. Let it up. I keep getting air out of it. So, I mean, I guess we're getting air out. Okay. I have it closed right now, so I'm still getting air. So how do they feel if they're not Dave: They are not working even still? Yeah, Pump it a few times right now, It's going right down? I think we're getting somewhere. We're going to get something That's good. The pedals drop I can feel it. I hold it all the down one more time. It's still getting air. The fluid that was in this was disgusting. The more we bleed it, the better. This should work good. It did work well. It's going to work real good now good. It stopped turning over. Try to crank it That's in the start position? Yeah. We got 12 volts right here. How about now? Try cranking it. I see the issue. The circuit breakers were tripped is shorting right there. So this looks like a rubber hose, and it shouldn't be touching anything. If you sandblast this, I actually just bought a sand blaster. Yeah, it seems good. It seems cool. We got it. Today is going to be the day Yeah, I'd like to paint it. This may have fixed it Takes a little bit of space to turn it around. Dan: Want me to hit the edge again? Yeah, Angle it more, and pull everything all the way out Try not to leave a windrow That's why its important to have brakes right there. That does look very graded. The stuff that is done Now it is all the way done on the edge So now we can start doing passes on the left Steer the rear axle Yes, like that It was steering over was too much. Soon as you do that and go forward it will be fine That is 3 passes on this. I think it's working good. I mean, before I had very subtle ups and downs to it, The idea I have also to go over these windrows just to break the rocks smaller Look at that. After grading it and rolling it It is smooth. Looking up this way. Very nice. The section here was pretty bumpy. You could just see how the grader is and then depositing the rock into low spots. You know, that's the thing. It's so long, and the blade is in the middle, it just does a really good job. The rock truck had to be driven slower than you wanted to go This is where the other roller went Look at this. Scraping off all the high spots That grader is pretty heavy, too. You know, it's actually got the weight to do what it's supposed to do That was a big bump. This is the first pass here and he moves some of the rock over on to So now that I hit it with the roller, These four inch pieces are now Back up here. Look at that. We're getting smaller pieces, so grader has material to work with. I'm like, why am I plowing so much? There is the issue There was an extra bolt in the cab and that one sheared Dan, I put the roller up against it Yeah, but the brakes work on this. Dan: Well, just in case. This has nice brakes now The parking brake and that pedal. Dan: You got that on there? Yeah, this was an easy fix. that was cool. There was a bolt in the cab there, Getting the hang of it. Yeah. This thing's nice. Yeah, I'm driving it in second gear now. Dan: I see that. Dan: I am going slow in case I catch a rock. Dan: I don't want to break it. Dan: You break it, it's different. I mean, we break it, we fix it, Yeah. The blade should be able to handle you know, the bumps were in a rhythm Yeah, this thing is sweet. Yeah. I mean, the guy told me the gauges work Usually people selling something say "it runs good" Yeah. he said it's been sitting a year That was an answer for a few things I just don't know. How awesome is that to have a parking brake These are sweet. Look at that. That is a good petal right there. Look how nice that looks this thing runs awesome. Yeah, that was a good find. Yeah, we did everything really. We graded all the gravel Let's go. Drive on it. I'm curious to see how that works. How is this brand new car? That's cool, Neat, So the test is, We're kind of cheating in this thing and suspension. But, Dan: started going sideways Yeah, it will feel better Yeah, Not bad though Dan: Want me to go all the way down? remember how it was Dan: we are doing 30MPH I mean, jeez, The Bell truck is going All right, well, this thing works great. It doesn't overheat So definitely happy with that purchase. And even today, and I think that helped a lot. we were just cruising up in this car and was able to go up and down these hills I think that's going to help a lot. The rock truck, also kind of tempted This thing's pretty cool. So I'm curious But all right. And I'm I'd kind of like to give it a service and probably be doing some