A video game world without NPCs is like a pizza but it's not particularly interesting, is it? NPCs that gamers love, the pepperoni and extra many wish had been left out of the final product But which NPCs are the video game equivalent of look at video games released since the proverbial bell of shame in the direction and a half decades. Whether they're bigoted, we're calling them out right here, right now. talking major plot points, there are I'm Ben from TripleJump and here are the 10 10. Pierre - Stardew Valley an NPC who is less egregious than most, but still of course, talking about Pierre, the Whilst he's not evil or anything, Pierre is one only does he buy the player's produce and also tries to pass said produce off as his own. hard work, Pierre can be found being a bit of a should set aside her dreams of adventuring Players' biggest pet peeve about Pierre, every. Gosh. DARNED. WEDNESDAY!!! We get that but you can't really be complaining about Joja willing to open for a full day every week. There's no wonder there's a whole f- Pierre 9. Fi - The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword don't have to be evil or psychotic you just have to be really, REALLY annoying. picked Navi as our "The Legend of Zelda annoying knows how irritating she is, and for another, Fi is a fairy spirit who resides within the chosen hero on their quest to defeat the Demon reason, she's programmed to chime in roughly every What's worse is that everything she has to say we can all agree, was not noted for its quality. Skyward Sword HDand many of her interactions made to appear instantly by pressing B, and great news for anyone who was one more Fi 8. Tom Nook - Animal Crossing Series Crossingseries might be wondering what such a Those who are familiar with Animal Crossing, child for capitalism and it shall be he who In each of the Animal Crossing games Tom Nook owns everything from homes to businesses, and as reliant on this miserly mammal. offering the player money which will allow he's not doing this out of the goodness of his and you just know the rascally raccoon is So, what's to be done about this tight-fisted really can do. He holds all of the bells and if Let's just hope that Nintendo are working on an can redistribute ourselves some wealth. 7. Irish - Red Dead Redemption should probably point out that, when it comes to no better than Red Dead Redemption'sIrish. we will just be sitting quietly in the we expect more from our video game characters, Players meet Irish during the A Frenchman, where protagonist, John Marston finds two what we know now about the bloke, we Drunk 99% of the time, lazy, prone to spouting all a complete coward who can only be relied most Red Dead Redemption players would We imagine many were probably thrilled to to whom he owed his very life - and buggering himself whilst doing his plops, and if 6. Mindy - Pokemon Diamond/Pearl/Platinum is so detested by gamers that there's an hatred of her. I am, of course, talking about If you've played a lot of Pokemon, you'll know any Poke-roster. You'll also know that they're due to the fact that in most Pokemon games meaning you'll need either a friend So, imagine players' surprise when they meet an NPC who's willing to trade her Haunter Sounds like a great deal, right? Wrong, because so sneaky, so underhanded, that most players She's forced her Haunter to hold an Everstone, Thankfully, this trade isn't so those in the know probably sleep very Mindy her coveted fighting-type. The 5. Eric Sparrow - Tony Hawk's Underground work. The constant risk of injury, the fickleness should have on your board... sounds tough. It's Undergroundthough, because they've got their At the beginning of the game, Eric is the player he's a selfish jerk. Over the course of THUG picking a fight with a bunch of drug dealers "forgetting" to sign the PC up to an important trick and then using said doctored footage to get the PC arrested by Russian authorities after His only motivation is bringing down the and is only even interested in skating for the Put it this way: with friends like Eric 4. Isolde - Dragon Age: Origins it's not an easy job at the best of times. Small and raising one is a great deal of pressure. If especially if you live in a world where people do you have some tough decisions to make. Origins'Isolde. a young mage, but unfortunately, she's rather embarrassment, she decides to hide his abilities would be fine if it weren't for the fact that by a demon who starts sending hordes of Not only this, but she also initially fails instead blaming Connor's teacher Her own pride not only gets her son possessed but that, we think she's more than deserving of her 3. Wulbren Bongle - Baldur's Gate 3 people who run the gamut of the moral spectrum, leaders, megalomaniacal emos, and squids there is one who stands head and to being a horrible person. This ridiculously-named gnome is first where he can be rescued from Moonrise Towers many players up the wrong way by being very rude rescued from a band of goblins in Act 1, heads to Then, in Act 3, Bongle goes full bigot. He tries which will, in turn, put a stop to the giant metal not content with simply destroying the the Gondian slaves who were making them. if they want, but if you did, just 2. Margrit - The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt video games over the years. Heck, Wild Huntalone, what with all of Geralt. His love woes are mere child's and Margrit's horrendously messy love triangle. has been for a good long while. Unfortunately for Hanna, and the two are married. Margrit knows just what to do. She's going to which will cause Hanna to leave him, and Only, the plan goes slightly wrong when When Niellen hires Geralt to investigate anything he does as a werewolf), Geralt soon or another, Margrit does get her just desserts. utterly despicable and completely unforgivable. just have chugged a bottle of rose and binge 1. Caesar - Fallout: New Vegas we like to think of ourselves as champions we're not perfect, we are, at the very least, As you can probably tell from his moniker, Caesar average man, and is the co-founder of Caesar's totalitarian dictatorship which is in direct On the basis of that previous sentence, I probably worst, but I will anyway. Firstly, he thinks and if you need me to expand upon why that's Second, after a battle went poorly, he had set on fire, and thrown into the Grand Finally, he's massively sexist, and Caesar's Legion as basically treated as So, congratulations to you Caesar, you're Now make like your namesake and