Largest countries in the world. Okay, I've got four quizzes all relating to the largest this first one being just in Europe, which shouldn't Where is Russia? There it is. Thank you. I don't think I need to do them in order. I just need to get the top 10. So after Russia, it'll be Denmark, because it includes Greenland. And then from this point, because they are two very whereas everything else is much smaller than Russia and Greenland. So next is probably Ukraine. I'm not saying that's the third largest. I'm just saying it's definitely And then I think we will Norway's not as big as Sweden and Finland, but I'm gonna click it anyway. Ooh, yeah, we're fine. We're fine. And Finland should be a safe bet, too, then Germany, Spain, I assume. I'm gonna go with France. I'm a bit scared to click We've got 8 out of 10. Let's go for it. Yes, good, and I just need one more. I'm thinking it's Turkey, looking at them. 'Cause, yeah, everywhere I'm gonna go Turkey, but (chime dings) Okay, we've got the easy quiz out the way. This is where it gets much harder. So I have to name the in each continent, and apparently I don't think I'm gonna get 100% here, but we'll see how we get on. So Russia, nice, that's a double whammy 'cause it's in Asia and Europe. Chuck a few other easy ones, USA, Brazil, and then somewhere big in And I've not got any Oceania Okay, as we've just done Europe, let's see if we can fill this in. So next is gonna be Denmark, yeah. Ukraine, probably on the list. So what's gonna be larger than Ukraine? So if I type France, oh, it but they are pretty close in Okay, what's the other Oh, it's not. Okay, now I'm stressed. Let's go Sweden. No. Finland, no. Spain? Oh no, I've only got four Algeria, there you go. Egypt's pretty- Egypt's Okay, that surprised me. Sudan, Chad, what's the other African one? Is it Mali? Oh, it's not. It's gotta be one of What have I forgotten? No. I'm gonna have to move on. All right, we'll do China. We will do... Mongolia. Apparently not, okay. Kazakhstan then, let's do that one. There you go. What beats Kazakhstan? Oh, it'll be Indonesia, I assume. It's not? Mexico, Canada, Argentina, What else in North America? Cuba, Jamaica, what is it? Get some other guaranteed What beats New Zealand? I am so confused. Papua New Guinea's gonna be on there. That makes sense actually, okay. South America should be easier. Does Chile add up? No, it doesn't. Right, there's only 12 so I'll just name them Peru, Columbia, Ecuador. (laughs) It'll be Venezuela then, won't No, apparently it's not Venezuela. (laughs) I'm so annoyed that I've not completed We've named 21, which is We've got 1 minute 25. Japan's not gonna be on Ooh, Saudi Arabia, it's gotta be. Yeah. And then bigger than Kazakhstan, I mean, I should be able There is a giant map which I am not looking at. Is it Iran or Iraq? No. Is it... India? Yes, there we go. We've completed a five, finally. 40 seconds left. Can I get any more? I'm confused about South Bolivia, it'll be Bolivia. Yes, fantastic. Canada, United States, Mexico, So what is it, Dominica? It's Dominican Republic, I mean. It's not? Can I get the last Europe one? France, Spain, is it Oh, it's not. All right, Let's see the ones that I DRC, of course. Turkey is much bigger Nicaragua and Honduras, that Haiti was larger Solomon Islands and because you can just see how between them and New Zealand. So I don't mind that I missed those. We got all of South and then we missed a few Yeah, that's not bad. Okay, next was gonna be but I reckon that's a bit trickier than largest countries without borders, 'cause I only have 16 to guess here. So we'll save this monstrosity Okay, so I just need to So Madagascar's definitely and i-it might even be one of the... Oh, it's not? It's not on there. Oh, no, I just spelled it Okay, the top one is massive. So Indonesia, does that Oh, it's not. What's a Literally 7 million kilometres, It's Australia. Come on, Jack. Why did I not instantly get that? Okay, from there, Sri Lanka's See, Sri Lanka is not big, so these ones are gonna be quite obscure. I can try the Maldives. No, Pretend that never happened. Floating around, Cuba's on Oh, no, it's on there. Okay, well in that case, Haiti, not on there, my luck But following on from that, Iceland? Iceland is on there. New Zealand, that's gotta be there, right? Yeah, Okay. Japan, Malaysia, no. No borders, no borders, what is it? Barbados, it's a weird guess, I know. I'm trying all the Caribbean countries. I've only got half of them. Malta, is that gonna be it? Cyprus? Cyprus has just made it in. Other island countries, Cape Verde, no. Philippines, let's try. Yes, that was the missing one. And then from Philippines, We can. We're getting some Okay, Comoros, no. We'll try Seychelles. It's not. Micronesia then, Fiji then, yes. Nauru, too small apparently. I've got about 30 seconds Oh, what are they gonna be? Not that. Kiribati, Sao Tome and Principe, I think that's gonna be too small. No. Okay, final four seconds, 13 of 16. That's respectable. What did we miss? Bahamas, Vanuatu, Trinidad and Tobago, yeah, they were all fair enough. I should have guessed those, to be fair. And I probably would if Right, finally, largest countries A to Z. So there's gonna be some easy ones and then some really So to begin with, A, Australia, surely. Yeah, there's no country that is larger than Australia. B, Belarus, right? No, oh God, oh God. It's all gone downhill. Brazil. Why did I say Belarus? Right, just move on from D is gonna be Denmark. No? Are they not including Greenland then, or is there just something DRC, yes, probably that. E, Ethiopia, Ethiopia, let's try it. Yes, this is going quite well. Finland, larger than G, what countries have we got there? Grenada's not gonna be it. It's probably just H, Honduras, let's see. Yes. I, Indonesia needs to be an answer at some point in this video. (laughs) It isn't. Okay, J can only be Jordan, right? No? Is it Jamaican then? Oh, it'll be Japan. K for Kenya, for God's sake. Well, what else begins with K? I can't even think of another country that begins with K that's not Kenya, and I bet it's really obvious as well. We'll have to skip it for Then M is gonna be Mauritania? No. Madagascar? It's all going downhill. N would be Nigeria. No, it O is gonna be Oman. P, Poland, no. Portugal, no. Pakistan, potentially. It is not. Let's skip it for now. I'll just get Qatar out the way. And then for R, it's obviously S, I'll try Spain. No. Spain, Serbia, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, of course, there it is. T, Trinidad and Tobago absolutely not. I can't think right now. No. Uganda then, let's try that. No. Well, it's not gonna Oh, it isn't. We'll skip it then. All right, for V, Venezuela, for Y, Yemen, and then Zimbabwe. No, well, I meant to Okay, 19 of 24, hmm. How have I not got K? And Morocco, Mali, P, Poland, And it's not Pakistan. Well, what's going on? T, Tunisia, no. I bet the five I've missed are so easy, and the people are in the comments, but I just I've got four seconds. I'm cheating. I'm looking at the map, New Oh, I already had M, I and I had three seconds, so Okay, M's Mexico. Obviously, it's Mexico. That was really, really stupid. Peru, I just wouldn't have United States, I will have that are sat in the United States questioning why I didn't say them. They are famously in the And Kazakhstan's and I just completely forgot about it. But we got 100% on the first quiz. We got 80% on the and 81 on the last, which is okay. It's probably minorly above So I hold my head up high. Please subscribe, because to 1.5 million subscribers. If you end up subscribing, Let me know what quiz you want me to do next,