- This is a video about what causes them, how destructive and what to do if you're - To actually feel the force There's kind of nothing that - [Derek] For this video, we followed around the ski patrollers at North America's biggest to trigger avalanches If you've ever driven through or have gone skiing at a by the knowledge gained avalanche forecasters, and ski patrollers. If you Google the deadliest avalanche, the first result will be from May, 1970, when the town of Yungguy and 10 nearby villages were destroyed. An estimated 30,000 people were killed, but the avalanche was triggered by a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, and the avalanche caused a So it wasn't really avalanche destruction. The deadliest snow avalanches during World War I. Some of the fighting took mountain range in northern Italy. There thousands of Italian troops were battling and it had been a Over 12 meters of snow had fallen on the mountain range in the first week of December. On the 13th of December, a single avalanche wiped out Mount Marmolada killing But its flow on effects Both sets of troops as a weapon, so soldiers on shells into the mountain deliberately triggering avalanches. Over the next few days, between 2000 and 10,000 soldiers died But most deadly avalanches or artillery shells. They're triggered by skiers, snowboarders, and snowmobilers recreating 93% of fatal avalanches in the US were triggered by the weight of the victim or someone So how could something so massive and destructive be triggered by the weight of just a single human? This is Bruce Tremper. He literally wrote the book which inspired us to make this video. - I was a a hardcore ski racer, but when I was done racing, for the Bridger Bowl Ski Patrol, and I got caught in my first avalanche. My job for that day was tightening all the bolts at the base 'Cause we were doing So then they'd warn me, with this tower, whatever that big avalanche path below it. And I made some snide remark like, &quot;Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know Don't worry about me.&quot; When I got done tightening those bolts, then I realized I made because I was just and I almost needed to take out a shovel and dig like a tunnel through to the ridge and it was And then I got cocky. I thought, &quot;Well, I've I can just build up my speed 'cause that's where I want to be anyway.&quot; Like an idiot, that's what I did. The first thing that happens is it just starts moving and the first thing you do is 'Cause you lose your balance. Like somebody pulls the and you fall uphill. And there I was just getting dragged down the I couldn't get out of it and luckily I was able but the snow was just beating me to death, and just about snapping by me on this tree. Luckily a lot of that snow went by and that's why I didn't die that day. But then it finally, the or something happened and I was tumbling down Luckily when I got to the bottom, I was only buried up to my chest. I was in the tail of the avalanche and the avalanche dies So that slows down while You know, I had a lot that for the rest of the day. Tightening the rest of those bolts and thinking, holy smokes, I should have died and I didn't. - You were tightening bolts, and then you went back to You like, you went back to work. - Oh yeah, yeah. - Good job. I was the guy, that was my job. You know, that's how I You get the job done. - At the most basic level, an avalanche happens when between the snow crystals break and the force of friction isn't enough to counteract Avalanches are categorized by size on a scale of one to five. One would not be large but size five would involve of snow traveling, many kilometers causing The first thing to note is The snow pack is built so it's layered and these and they change over time, due to the conditions they're exposed to, the air temperature, humidity, sun, wind, and rain all affect the For example, after fresh snow has fallen, if there's a warm sunny and then refreeze overnight The most important condition in the snowpack, but we'll come to that. The snowpack preserves that has happened to it. If you dig a pit into the snow, you can read the different Nine different avalanche but there are two main There are two types of and wet loose. The snow in dry loose The snow isn't all stuck together. So after it's triggered, it fans out. Sometimes loose avalanches are also known as point release avalanches. Dry loose avalanches are commonly and they usually aren't a serious hazard, though they can drag a skier off a cliff. - It's funny because like we've just said like this one kind of avalanche isn't an avalanche, we just call it something else. I had a run in with sluff and you just feel like this wall of snow pushing you from the back. Honestly, it's kind of fun, it's fun. It's like, it's kind of like and it's moving and you have because you know that yeah, and if you're not moving fast - [Derek] Another type of - It typically happens around spring on like south facing aspects. The sun heats up the snow and slushy and runny. The sun's starting to come out. I'm not currently too worried but I will be in about an hour. - [Derek] But the more deadly avalanches are slab avalanches where the top layer of like a cohesive slab. When the avalanche is triggered, the snow releases together in big chunks. The prevalence of slab avalanches depends on the angle of the ski slope. Under 25 degrees, there isn't because gravity just isn't strong enough to pull the snow down the mountain. Any slope steeper than 50 to have dangerous avalanches. The slope is so steep that it's hard for much snow to accumulate. Regular small sluffs and slab avalanches prevent more dangerous slabs. 75% of dangerous slab avalanches occur between 34 and 45 degrees. For comparison, a black around 30 degrees and a double In other words. - The best conditions for conditions for avalanches. - [Derek] What's really is you can trigger them remotely. You could be skiing or walking on a slope that and trigger an avalanche on And slab avalanches are fast. They can reach speeds up - Friends of mine have You just don't realize how far these cracks can - [Derek] Slab avalanches bed surface, which is the Then there is a weak layer The bed surface and the That is they're made out of The kind of snow that you The shape of the snow crystals in strong layers tends to be rounded. In contrast, the weak layer that don't readily cohere to one another. These tend to be more But there are a few One of the most worrying It's not made outta snow It grows on the surface of the snow. On cold clear nights, a lot of its heat away becoming Since warm air holds more that moisture will crystallize at the top of the snow creating surface hoar. Surface is formed by condensation. It's the snow equivalent of dew. It's really angular and it - Usually surface hoar is or sun melting it. - [Derek] But if a snowstorm occurs, just after these crystals have formed, they can become buried. And in that case, they create which is just perfect for avalanches. Another weak layer to worry that used to be round, but that became angular in the snowpack. Facets develop when there's gradient in the snow. A thermal gradient of less than one degree per 10 centimeters does Anything more than that can, inside a snow pit is measured. If there's a large thermal gradient, there could also be a weak layer - Right above and right below crust, there can be really wild So we had it down 10 and down 20 it was minus 3.7. So that's two degree difference. - [Derek] The bottom of the snow is warmer than the top of the snow. So the warmer snow near the ground, sublimates turning into water vapor. This water vapor rises and then encounters the At this point, it refreezes which like surface hoar, creating a weak layer. - The bigger the change in temperature, the faster the snow crystals change and the faster they change, if they change quickly, which promotes instability. - [Derek] The other important is the stiffness of the slab. Since the snow is cohesive, and the interface between the slab and the weak layer starts and hence the slippage propagates. While stiffer slabs might their failure leads to more propagation, leading to larger avalanches. This also results in more remote triggers. Avalanches are common after storms. The extra weight of the snow exerts an additional which can trigger the weak layers deeper in the snowpack to slide. The vast majority of or right after a storm, in other words- - The best conditions for skiing are also the best - Strong winds also increase The wind can pick up and transport the snow from As the snow accumulates, the wind pressure compacts as they're deposited, which These newly deposited layers Wind slabs can be quite after formation, if they've Since they're more cohesive, these slabs can break free as large chunks during an avalanche making Another concern are cornices. Cornices form when the wind blows snow and it piles up on the other Cornices can weigh many tons and when they fall onto a slope, they can trigger massive slab avalanches. One of the ways that backcountry of the slope they're about to ride is by dropping a cornice onto it. If the slope didn't slide it's unlikely to slide So how are avalanches For this video, Veritasium with the ski patrol team which is North America's - Dude, I'm pumped, really really stoked, should be a good day. There are sections in ski resorts that are avalanche terrain, or so degrees or under avalanche terrain. To keep skiers safe, the ski patrols do avalanche control work. Fundamentally, it boils down to them triggering before there are any skiers This is done often enough so that the snow doesn't get So the avalanches that There are a few ways that this is done, but the most common is Explosive charges with a and then detonated on the to produce avalanches. - Oh boy, really glad - Sometimes this is done by throwing the chargers but a lot of the time There are even special trams to a carabiner and then shuttled across to a hard to access slope. As the charge detonates, the shockwave breaks the weak Yes, we got a slide, that wasn't too bad. It wasn't great. - It was something. - [Peter] Despite doing of the biggest storms of the season, we weren't particularly lucky We shot all morning and only got this relatively small slide. So I was getting worried and then we were able to get this shot. (upbeat music) Oh my god, look at that, oh. Avalanche control work with basically the same before they get a chance to For example, the Trans Canada and west coast of Canada goes through Rogers Pass, a mountain pass with 3000 meter toll peaks The road is right next to a mountain that's actually called Avalanche Mountain. Here Parks Canada and the Canadian Army by firing artillery shells at one of the 270 preset targets releasing small avalanches before they get a chance to become big and destructive and damage the highway. - [Derek] Deaths from in bounds at resorts, Due to the diligent most avalanche injuries and deaths occur in the back country. - It's kind of crazy 'cause as a skier, you hear so much about avalanches. (speaker speaking in a foreign language) - You realize it's deadly (speaker speaking in a foreign language) - But to actually like feel the force of the avalanche on your body, like there's kind of nothing (snow thudding) Every time I hit the ground I in my feet in like try to like claw myself down onto the ground while also like trying to protect my head. I knew also like the if I was still in the I wouldn't be able to move, I would be counting on my buddy to find me and dig me out and save me. (exhales heavily) (speaker speaking in a foreign language) - This wasn't a huge so like big enough to bury So I was actually able before it flattened out where the snow would accumulate (speaker speaking in a foreign language) - Yeah, it was intense, really intense and I felt really stupid because it was the first on as a kid was this and so I was just so comfortable with it and like didn't think twice about the fact that it was avalanche terrain and the snow or, I mean we did check the snow up top, but I don't know, I into to the dangers that are present. Like the moment you step something like that can happen. - So the three things that you need to bring when you go back which is this thing, a probe, which is this big, long stick So it does fit in your - [Derek] If you're buried it's almost impossible During an avalanche, the and friction heats it up and then when the avalanche stops, it refreezes, setting like concrete. And that's why if you're fully to find you and dig you out. This is why in 1968 the - The beacon is a transceiver, and a receiver of electromagnetic waves at 457 kilohertz. So right now it is send mode. So this is the mode it would be on if I'm skiing in the backcountry and if there's an avalanche, what would happen is those electromagnetic waves Then my buddies would change and start looking for that signal. And what that looks like is that Aaron is two meters away from me and her beacon is on there's a person two - Around 25% of avalanche fatalities are from trauma hitting a tree or a rock or being pushed off a cliff. The rest are from asphyxiation. If you're buried in an avalanche and your face is under the snow, there's a small air The snow is initially porous, and breath melts the snow, which refreezes forming As you breathe, the concentration of CO2 in that bubble increases and the amount of oxygen decreases until you die from asphyxiation. If your friends find and dig you out in the first 10 minutes, you have an 80% chance of survival. 15 minutes in, that chance drops to 40%, 30 minutes in, you have just So time is key. There is another invention which is an avalanche airbag. If a skier triggers an avalanche, which activates the airbag. The airbag rapidly inflates. Historically this was but newer versions use The airbag increases the skier's buoyancy, making it less likely for them to be buried deeply in an avalanche. An added benefit is that as the airbag deflates, it leaves a larger air to be rescued. Avalanche airbags decrease by nearly half. Around 30 people in the US plus an additional hundred in Europe. Most of them are backcountry or snowmobilers, and they very likely triggered the avalanche that killed them. Avalanches are beautiful, majestic, and completely terrifying. If you go into the backcountry in winter, please carry a shovel, but also check the avalanche forecast and make good decisions when heading out to avalanche terrain. Because the best way is not to be caught in one. We know so much about avalanches today, thanks to people like Bruce, people who followed their curiosity and learned through discovery. But thankfully, you don't have to experience this kind of learning. You can get started right now for free with today's sponsor, Brilliant. On Brilliant, you'll learn of interactive lessons and data science to programming, You'll not only gain but learn to apply them And with every lesson, you'll also be honing your giving you the tools to solve whatever problems come your way. On Brilliant, you can explore just about anything you're curious about. I mean really explore it by and snippets of code, and data, even running until concepts just click. And my favorite part is So you can do it in minutes just commit to five and watch your knowledge Now, for viewers of this video, Brilliant is offering 20% off their annual premium subscription. Just go to brilliant.org/veritasium. I will put that link or you can scan the QR code. So once again, I want to thank Brilliant for sponsoring this part of the video, and I wanna thank you for watching.