Today, I want to show you a weird light bulb of the not-too-distant past. Ta-da! If you're thinking, &quot;that's just a CFL stuffed inside a glass bulb you're right! But that simple visual trickery isn't what's special about this bulb. Lots of manufacturers were doing that. This one? Well, for a brief while, GE was marketing a line of compact fluorescent lamps and this is one of those bulbs. They developed it to overcome one of the central the rather slow warmup time of a cold CFL. And they did it by taking this already and going full turducken on it by stuffing an incandescent light bulb in the middle With two lighting technologies in the same package, this is literally a hybrid light bulb. Why does it exist? Well, about 15 years ago in the way back when known as 2009, we still hadn't really figured out how to make decent LED drop-in light bulbs. If anybody out there remembers this with its yellow phosphor coating on the exterior? Yeah, this thing came out in 2010, We've come a long way in a very short time! But in the years prior to the LED bulb becoming feasible and cheap, we had gotten very good at making compact fluorescent lamps. These energy-saving wonders weren't perfect by any means - the quality of light they produced was a downgrade from incandescent, unless of course you like deathly cold, in which case they unlocked that for the first time but either way the mercury content of the discharge tube Still, they used about a quarter of the energy and the not-crap ones anyway lasted a very long time if used Including yours truly. And a few models remain in production to this day. But even if you like or merely tolerate the quality of light they still have an Achilles heel: the bulbs themselves are pretty ugly. In some light fixtures this doesn't matter at all but anything leaning towards decorative where you could see the bulb itself would be at least somewhat ruined by the presence of one of them twisty boys instead of a nice round light globe. And then there are the specialty bulbs like directional flood lights which use reflectors to direct the light they produce A CFL can't do that. But those mid-2000's engineers weren't just gonna give up - they decided to stuff the fluorescent coil or even alter how it releases its light. You could just stuff it into a light bulb-shaped maybe even a sphere to CFLarize the decorative globes for a bathroom vanity. Or you could stuff it inside a reflector to... kind of anyway And we didn't stop there! The days of CFL dominance were a wild time in weird light bulbs, and IKEA was particularly fond of cramming This small spot-light is one of my favorites: It's even two-layers deep! But while this technique improved the aesthetic there was a huge catch to doing it. CFLs did use quite a bit less energy than incandescent lights but the discharge tube still gets pretty hot. The standard exposed coil design can rely on the convection currents from moving air to help dissipate that heat and cool the tube which means the operating temperatures remain pretty reasonable. But all of those decorative ones? They are deliberately sealing up their tubes The tubes inside these will run quite a lot hotter Which is actually a pretty big problem which would lead to poor performance. See, fluorescent lights work because of the ultraviolet light produced by the That largely invisible light is then converted by the phosphors Those phosphors fluoresce under UV light But the effectiveness of that ultraviolet discharge is greatly influenced What is vapor pressure? Well, according to this website I found, "equilibrium vapor pressure is the pressure exerted by a vapor in thermodynamic equilibrium with its condensed phases (solid or liquid) at a given temperature in a closed system." OK, so what does that mean? Well, mercury is a liquid at room temperatures. And just as room temperature water slowly evaporates room temperature mercury does the same thing. Some of it will transition to the gaseous phase even at low temperatures. But when sealed up in a tube, every gaseous molecule that breaks free from the liquid phase And once the gas pressure caused by those no more liquid mercury will evaporate. That equilibrium point is the vapor pressure. Now there are some wonky factors here which I'm skipping over. For instance, the vapor pressure of a fluorescent tube because that cold spot will cause condensation which of course then lowers the internal pressure of the tube a bit, to replenish what just condensed and keep it in equilibrium. But anyway, the reason this matters at all is that fluorescent lights need a pretty specific If the vapor pressure is too low, the ultraviolet discharge that we're looking for But if it gets too high, well a higher vapor pressure means and in those close quarters, so ultimately less ultraviolet light is produced For best results, then, we need the lamp to be operating Getting to that goldilocks zone isn't impossible but it is tricky. Because even if you get the pressures just right when making the tube, you aren't in complete control And as temperature increases, so does the vapor pressure. High temperatures mean there's more energy in the system which means that more liquid mercury will transition to the gaseous phase and then, because those molecules are trapped in a tube with a fixed volume, In practice this means that if a fluorescent tube gets too hot in operation Which for a thing which's whole purpose is to make light In early fluorescent lighting designs, this was just a reality that we worked around So long as they were being used in an environment they'd work fine - and their internal pressure was But we humans are never satisfied with limitations so we worked on figuring out how to make the technology functional In addition to tackling that functional issue, though, And it turned out that efforts to improve efficiency As we developed fluorescent technology, we found that increasing the intensity of the discharge could produce more light with less electrical energy. That's in part how a CFL can make so much light in this relatively small space and why fluorescent tubes kept getting skinnier as time went on. But those skinnier tubes dissipated similar power levels so they got much hotter when operating which in turn elevated the internal vapor pressure well beyond the point But clearly we figured it out. This light bulb is a lightin'. So what did we do to make this possible? Isn't the answer obvious? Just amalgamate the mercury, Silly Billy! For the record, I don't like this word. a-MALL-gum? AA-mal-gam? a-MAL-gum? [synthesized voices saying &quot;Amalgam&quot;] We'll go with that one. If instead of just mercury you throw in an amalgam of mercury you can bend the mercury's to better fit your needs. Mix in a bit of indium and bismuth, or if you're feelin' fancy some bismuth, lead, and tin, and you can run a fluorescent tube at much higher temperatures because those extra elements will sort of hold on to the mercury which lowers the vapor pressure at high temperatures. Which is great! Oh - and remember that thing about the coldest Well, some CFLs have little bumps formed in This little pocket of glass sticks out beyond the confines of the discharge going through the tube, so it stays cooler than the rest of the glass and helps to regulate the internal vapor pressure when operating. But back to the amalgam. These new mercury amalgams for high-temperature Note that despite being a solid, some mercury will still evaporate The amalgam came in the form of little pellets. Which, you might have noticed these before in certain lamps - sometimes it seems like there's a little ball rattling around inside somewhere [rattling] and there is, in fact - though usually it's held captive in a special pocket to keep it in one place so it doesn't roll around Some designs like that weird IKEA spotlight though most of the time it's hiding near the electrodes These solid pellets were much easier to deal with compared to liquid mercury but of course the main reason for their use as it will with narrow, high-efficiency tubes. Except, there was a trade-off. There always is! With these amalgam pellets, there's less available mercury So when these high-efficiency lamps first start, It won't reach full brightness until it's at operating temperature and enough of the mercury in the amalgam has actually managed to vaporize and produce the correct vapor pressure inside the tube. This is why CFLs and high-efficiency fluorescent The amalgam of mercury inside them is deliberately suppressing the vapor pressure when the lamp is cold so that it becomes optimal once the lamp is hot. Now, with most CFLs and high-efficiency tubes, The lamp produces a good deal of light right away But if the tube gets very cold, say it's being used outside or you stuck it in a freezer then the vapor pressure of mercury in the tube To allow the lamp to start in this condition, a starter gas That gas doesn't produce much light - just a dull, pinky-purple glow. But it does allow for a discharge through the tube to happen And that will produce some heat. Therefore, the temperature inside the tube does increase with time, This heat helps more of the mercury in the amalgam to vaporize, increasing the vapor pressure in the tube, and once it's correct that mercury contributes a lot of ultraviolet light And the key thing to this video is that how aggressive you need that amalgam to be depends on how hot you expect the tube to get. An ordinary CFL with its tube open to air The tube doesn't get that hot in operation with airflow to cool it, so the amalgam is fairly tame and at room temperatures at least Therefore it produces a good deal of light right away unless it's very cold. But if you expect the tube to get hotter in operation, you'll need a more aggressive amalgam which will lower Which finally brings us back to bulbs like this. How aggressive do you suppose we need the amalgam to be in these bulbs? The answer is very aggressive. The discharge tube sealed inside these so we need an amalgam formulation That's no problem - we know how to do that just fine. But the trade-off? There's always a trade-off. Very, very little mercury vapor is free So those decorative or specialty CFLs? They behave like the CFL kept in the freezer every time they start. This CFL flood spot thing is currently at room-temperature. Despite its relative warmth, it barely glows when switched on That IKEA spot from earlier? Yeah, it does the same thing. It's pretty useless when you first switch it on. Most if not all decorative CFLs exhibited this behavior. They had to suppress the mercury vapor pressure a LOT which meant they had terrible light output Which means they're kind of annoying to live with. Although, shoutout to the decorative globe CFLs It was actually pretty nice to have a very dim-at-first light Helps the eyes adjust. In most cases though, this behavior is annoying. Now, of course, the easiest solution is to just use open-air CFLs. They usually didn't have this problem unless But if you just had to cover up the ugly factor, you had no choice but to deal with the poopy Unless, of course, you do what GE did with these bulbs. What did they do? They just stuck a halogen capsule inside the fluorescent spiral, A halogen lamp will attain its full brightness in a fraction of a second (at the expense of using quite a lot of power). But if you're just using it to fill in that gap that occurs when a CFL warms up, then you could just power it up for about a minute Which is precisely what this light bulb does. When power is first applied, the internal circuitry switches on That gives it plenty of usable brightness the moment you need it. And then, after about a minute of operation, the fluorescent tube has gotten plenty warm (with a little help from the halogen capsule, it should be noted) so it's producing adequate light on its own, Take a look at this power meter while I switch on the lamp. At first, this is a pretty power-hungry bulb, pulling about the same power level as the 100W But before long, a large majority of its power consumption drops off It's a very simple idea, but it's very effective. This bulb gets all of the pros of a CFL And this particular GE Reveal bulb is among the best CFLs It's a genuinely impressive thing. GE put this hybrid drivetrain(?) including this flood which I showed you earlier. And here, because the front is clear and not frosted, we can actually see the halogen capsule This behaves identically to the larger bulb but this is only a 65 watt equivalent so it uses less power both in the hybrid startup And if you're wondering whether they did this for cool-white bulbs, the answer is yes! And it's really freaking weird! When first powered up, the CFL is hardly contributing But as it warms up, the light output shifts cooler and cooler, and then the halogen lamp shuts off with a very jarring BLAM and the light appears... well like that. I know some of you keep saying you like this but I'll never understand it. And that jarring transition from a crisp white Which is... GE half-assed this. Like, the idea is simple enough so perhaps But in my opinion, it's much too simple. The halogen capsule is simply toggled off So even with the warm-white bulbs where the transition is much less jarring, you still notice a pronounced light drop-off when the halogen light goes out. Of course, cramming in the circuitry required to slowly dim the halogen light's output as the CFL warmed up would add complexity and cost so it's easy to see why it didn't happen. But that's not my biggest problem with this design. Consider the idea of temperature compensation. The halogen capsule doesn't need to operate if, say, the light had only been switched off In that case, the fluorescent tube will still be plenty warm If you test this, you'll see that GE appears to have built this in. The halogen capsule illuminates very briefly but then goes out, which suggests the bulb is aware of the ambient temperature. Alas, they faked that. The temperature compensation circuit in here likely using a capacitor which holds onto its charge for a while, the runtime of the halogen capsule is influenced by how long it has been If it was just on, that capacitor still has a decent charge But if it's been a while, that capacitor has little charge in it This works well enough but, ironically, Consider what happens when you use this outdoors in cold weather. This one's been in the freezer so the tube is very cold. Upon power-up, you wouldn't really know that because But the circuitry in control of the halogen lamp It just knows it hasn't been used in a while. So the halogen capsule shuts off near the and the fluorescent tube is still much too cold So, using one of these outdoors in a cold climate but then suddenly gets very dim I mean I guess that's better than not having the halogen capsule in there - especially since its heat could theoretically But it's far from ideal. And even more ironically, they only claim these will start reliably Lots of CFLs claimed reliable starts down to 5 degrees Fahrenheit, which is - ya know what? Ask a search engine for what that is in Celsius. You can do that every time one of us silly is a lot faster than complaining about it in the comments. But I will tell you it's quite cold. Uh, anyway, the reason I find this particularly ironic is that, arguably the only reason this feature needed to exist in the first place If you don't care about that, an open-air CFL produces useful brightness right away. But either kind - enclosed or exposed tube - experiences So if they had designed this with which forced the halogen lamp to stay on longer in freezing conditions, they could have actually fixed a real problem with the technology - especially if they went the extra mile and disabled the CFL circuit That would have been a real game changer - and experienced a cold porch light an actually well-thought-out implementation But these bulbs will only give you one minute Which isn't the most helpful thing in winters like ours. Still, I very much admire the spirit shown here. You may remember a video I made some years back on LED traffic lights and the fixation some people have with their inability to melt snow, That "but sometimes!" way of thinking could be dealt with either by refusing to progress or by applying one of my favorite parts of the human spirit And much like LED traffic lights with heaters built-in or special covers which reduce snow buildup in the first place are now available, GE (and some other manufacturers from what I can tell) by cleverly integrating a bit of old tech They didn't quite do it with as much finesse But of course now that LED bulbs have gotten so cheap that sometimes isn't even relevant in most applications. These don't care how cold it is - they'll just work right away. Oh, uh and carmakers? People keep sending me links to articles about Before I have to make another video, You're already doing it on the rear glass. You can have that one for free. And stop it already with the red rear turn signals! Gosh! How is that not an obvious problem to you? And don't just do a Stellantis and make the lamp color change - then you still lose the brake light on whatever side Why do I have to think of this crap? It's because I have too much time on my hands. Anyway, these light bulbs show even when new technologies present us And oftentimes one way to do that I mean, how do you think the CFL Ho boy, better just end this right now. Thanks for watching! initially smooth jazz Hey there, I'd like to announce that I will be at Open Sauce 2024. That's happening June 15 and 16 in San Francisco, (there's a link in the description). Oh and if you're going, be sure to wear But, in the years prior to the LED bulb... ...you might just stuff it into a light bulb-shaped you could lose your place in the teleprompter and need to back up. Lots of CFLs claimed relialblel ba. This is what happens when it's a very long line! But then suddenly gets very dim and needs another few minutes to reach full brightness. I mean, I ... another few? Oh don't tell me you're dead. Ha! Well hold on, then, I gotta get a different bulb. Some designs like that weird IKEA lamp... crap! So, I released this on April Fool's Day. Did you think this was an April Fools video? Because the topic does seem pretty off-the-wall. Unless you remember these, I guess. Pretty bright idea, though.