Yes. Hello you two. Hello. Today I would like to tell you about long-term campers. Many people who spend the winter here in Spain stay in one place for a long time. They are always in the same place for up to six months. Up to half a year. How they organize their day. I would like to talk about this in this video. And I'll use our best friends Lisa and Horst as an example. Welcome to this video. Hello you two! Yes, now we have met again here at the Area Camper in Mazarron. And yes, you two should tell us a little bit about how you spend the day here and how you set it up here. And I'll start with the Horst. Lisa will come later. She can then tell you a little bit about the kitchen. Yes, Horst, tell me, when did you arrive and how long are you staying? Yes, we were here very early, that is, we arrived here in October, at the end of October, and we have been here for a good two and a half months now, and will soon be here. And we also plan to overwinter. So that means we will probably stay here until the middle of March. Stay put here. In this place. And then of course you set yourself up accordingly. Of course with everything you need here. And yes, we are constantly developing it further. And yes, let's start with, how big is your plot? Yes, we were very lucky there. We got an oversized plot of land, it's a total of 21 meters long, but it's a bit narrow, i.e. 8 meters narrow, which isn't exactly narrow either. But it's quite a lot. Yes, we can see, we saw a bit of that at the beginning. Here you have your trailer, your car, standing on the square, and behind it is the mobile. So there's plenty of space here on the plot. Then the kitchen tent is here. Yes, we got this brand new now. We can say something more about that. We had this sent here. Yes, from Holland, there is a known sender. And we had a smaller one before, but found that it was a bit too small for us, so we ordered a larger one. Yes, okay, so this is a so-called cooking or storage tent or what do you call it? Yes, we popularly call it a kitchen tent or cooking tent. Yes, everything is there. Can we take a look again? Yes. And then we have a community tent. We have that on the neighboring site because our site is so small. I'll go there for a moment. Yes with the neighbors, if that's the case, for example the Christmas party, up to ten people can sit in there and can then heat it and it's here too, even if many don't believe it, in Spain at night in the winter months or or already cold in the evening. It can go down eight or seven degrees. Yes, exactly, yes, that's how it is and then the kitchen tent or cooking tent. You not only use that for cooking, but you also put the bikes in it in the evening? Right, so that they are protected a bit when it rains. Well, and then Lisa's empire is here. Yes, most of the time it's the woman who cooks, or what about you? Also together. So yeah, okay, good. Yes, and now you have built some furniture for it and have a double-flame stove? Then have the gas bottle here, the Spanish gas bottle. Yes, you have two. Yes, one in the mobile and one here. And you can swap them here too. Not directly on the pitch. No, that's not far away, I'll say 300 or 400 meters. Is a gas station. And you can easily swap them. Is very inexpensive compared to Germany. Yes, the price is currently EUR13.25. I guess in Germany it will still be over EUR20. Yes Yes Yes. And then you have a little bit Spices and whatever you need. It's not as comfortable as at home. No, no, but there is a cupboard with pots in it. Yes. And it's sealed so that no ants or other things can get in there. I know cats more like this, you have to be careful about everything else here, because then suddenly the chop is gone. Yes, how big is the tent? This tent is 3 meters by 2 meters and 2.20 meters high. Yes, okay. And you can open it on all sides. So now we have it closed. So, the windows are there to open. And now we can also assume a few things that you don't necessarily always want to have on your mobile. Well, now a lot has accumulated here with you. Yes, you can say that. How you do that? Are you transporting all of this home? No. Even though we have the trailer now. And the car, I could load something there too. But we have now done it like this: Everything that we don't need at home, that is, the cooking tent, the cupboards, the community tent, the gas bottle, which is extra, and so on. Partial carpet rolled out here. And I have everything on a pallet, I put everything in there that I no longer need when we go back home. Yes, and then it is closed and then the operator comes from the site with a pallet truck and picks it up and stores it for us. Yes, that means it's not finished. But that's just plastic wrap. Well, yes, yes. And then we put our name on it. Space, numbers and telephone number so that everyone knows what it is. Yes, and in the spring or fall, when we come back, he'll bring them back here for us. Yes, now that we are standing here right now, I have seen that a water connection is being installed here. You have a water connection here. So you're firmly attached. This happened because I was able to make the hook right here. Yes, there is constant pressure here. We are about 15 meters of line. Hose. Yes. Yes. And you can quickly fill a pot or water. Here is such a siphon. You once laid a drain line from your motorhome. Is there a line like that coming here now? Yes, it comes out of the motorhome. Yes, here is such a section. Then it goes on to our drain box, which has space for everyone. By the way, we may not have mentioned it yet. There is a drain at every parking space. Yes. We share it with the neighbor. But there are also places here where you share the drain with four people. Yes. Okay, then you have it here so you can see it properly . That should actually be a drain, under the pavement. The sieve is no longer there, but it has an odor seal, which means the smell doesn't come out of the drain. So here you just put your water in. If you have water from washing dishes or something, you can put it in and it will drain. It goes behind the tent here. Maybe you can see it. And right back there, way back there, you can see it. There is a connection for the channel, you can connect there. The neighbors also have their connections there. Take a close-up right here. Here below. Did you join the party? Correct. That fits, doesn't it? The motorhome had a connection of 40 millimeters. Fits exactly what we have in Germany. Yes, here I got some hose because I didn't bring enough with me. And I got the hose from home, but you can get it anywhere. Good. Then I installed another branch here. Look here. And there is water. Yes, fresh water. Fresh water, that is. I can then continue here and below. This is how you fill your tank? There is always a little pressure on it, not full water pressure. Yes, because I'm a bit afraid that it might break somewhere in the sun and then. Yes, that's how you regulate it at the tap. There's a lever there that you can easily adjust. Yes, okay. So here I have , as I just said, a bottle. Yes, so, so-called gas tank as a bottle where you can fill up. Yes, you can do it here, it's about a kilometer and a half, have it filled with gas at the gas station. And then the Spanish bottle. Yes, yes, you can exchange them here at the gas station. The gas station is only a few meters away. I only use it if something suddenly happens in the middle of the night when it's empty and I have to get it. Yes, then you have to switch it there. I just see your cassette cover. For the toilets. Cassette? Yes, yes, that's it. We don't have a so-called fixed tank, but a normal cassette. And I have to take them away though . Unfortunately that's a little further away here. Yes, the disadvantage. So, I guess 200, 300 meters. Some carry it by hand, some have a little cart. Yes, I have something special. Yes. I can show you that. Instead of, I don't know what the system is called, I have Klickfix. Yes, you can put the basket on it. Yes, exactly. And then I built myself a frame like this. This is done with the click fix. And here I insert the cassette. It clicks once and sits firmly. Then you can get there by bike. Did you screw them here? Yes, that's right, that's the normal one that's at the bottom. Ah, and that can be swapped quickly when we go shopping, then of course I'd rather have the basket. Yes, and you built it yourself. It has already been recreated here on the square several times. Yes, okay, because it's just practical. You've had a car with you for a few years now , here with a trailer. We'll talk about the whole solar system again in a moment. But now let's get to the car. How do you use the car? So we use it here to get to know the surrounding area, for example. We were in Cartagena, we were in the mountains, we were here and then we also visited other campsites. To see what they're like, you also want to find out more and we used to have a scooter. But as I get older I feel safer with a car like this and that's okay. It doesn't weigh much and we're happy to have it with us. You don't use it every day. But it's not a very expensive car either. You bought it used, bought it and also bought the trailer used and it does its job. If this is on the lot, do you have to pay extra for it? No, I won't pay that. Just the plot. To be honest, it doesn't matter what I put on it. So here's the site operator and since I'm now lucky enough to have a large plot of land, it's easily possible for me. If you later show others that are a little smaller, everything we have here is not so easy. This is just some of the places here on this Area Camper Mazarron. These big places, that's maybe 30%, I would say. But new ones have been made here, you just have to say. The ones further up. Yes. They're all bigger. Yes, now the operators have probably learned from this that this is probably the future, that mobile phones are getting bigger and bigger, strangely enough, and something like that is needed. Yes, yes, really clever. I saw the electricity, your electricity connection, it's here. Yes there. We have n't used it once the entire time we've been here. We only use our solar system and are completely compatible with it. However, that is also a bit more than perhaps other people have. Yes, you made such a construction on the trailer. And that's what I wanted to say. So the trailer is now not for the solar system, everything will be folded up again. It doesn't weigh much, these are these individual plates, which are also commercially available. They can be folded up and weigh 3.6 kilos each. And then it's a very small package and it goes into the car when we take it back with us. Yes, and the traverse is also a ramp that I have with me anyway. Yes, and you also have solar on the roof of the motorhome. You may have seen that it looks a bit strange now. This is also a first attempt. We have another 300 watts, 350 watts on the roof and 600 watts here. Yes, so watt hour. Yes, we have to be precise. So that means 1250. I can now, let's say, in November, the sun is now very low. Yes, so in November I have over 50 amps. Yes, but that has now also gone down because the sun has reached its lowest point at the moment where we are standing here. Yes, right, exactly. Yes, and you're still doing well? Excellent. Most of the time, if we have sunshine today, the battery is already full by 12:00. I have a 400 amp hour lithium battery. Yes, we've shown it before. Where I got it. That's going great. So you really don't need anything else. Do you ever cook on an induction plate? Correct. We have two plates, an oven, then a kettle, which takes quite a bit. Coffee machine, hairdryer, everything a person needs. And this is done without taking losses into account. We also had a grill, a kind of gyro grill. Then the battery capacity fell below 24%. But over the next few days everything was full again. Yes, it recovers when the sun shines. Yes, of course it will end at some point. When there is no sun, you have to be economical. Yes, exactly. I think you'll also take a trip from here, if you're on your mobile or what? Every now and then the ceiling falls on our heads. Then we leave everything behind. So we leave the tent, the car, the trailer , everything here and drive, sometimes for a week or ten days, sometimes 14 days, just somewhere and visit cities. Now, for example, we're planning to go to the Alhambra and so on, to these white houses that we haven't been to yet. As an example. Yes, and then we just take the mobile with us and we pay here, I don't know if I'm allowed to say that. So as a long-term camper here, EUR11 a day and that's bearable, even if you're not there for 14 days. Yes, okay, that's a good thing, then you leave the rest here and just drive away from the camp in the mobile. Yes, and it's done quickly. Is simple. Yes / Yes. Disconnect and go. Yes. You don't have an awning. Why not an awning? Yes, that's what we were planning to do. Have you ever reported on it? Several years ago. We had an air awning there. What bothers me about this whole story is that the vast majority of it is hidden from the mobile. That there is no sun and that when it sometimes blows a bit, that always shook the mobile. That bothered us a lot. That's why we prefer to have a community tent where we can go in when it's cold in the evening or when it's raining. Or the kitchen tent, which is independent of the mobile. Yes, what do you do all day or how do you spend your free time? We ride our bikes during the day, sometimes away or here, sometimes there and in the evening we meet up with this or that. Then there is the restaurant here, where something is offered every now and then. Every now and then I go boules here, there are quite a few boules courts. It has even been expanded. There are also boules courts outside of the actual campsite . So that's a nice change too. Yes, otherwise, we just don't get bored here, especially since we always have this beautiful weather, almost always. Yes, have you only wintered in this place so far or do you already have somewhere else? No, no, we've been overwintering for the third year now and have only been here so far. We've been to Spain a lot. But they never overwintered everywhere, always went home in December at the latest and then came back at the beginning of March. But it was always a back and forth. Well, it's not always so easy to leave your loved ones at home and there isn't always such an understanding either. But it is just the way it is. And yes, how do you actually deal with mail and everything that has to be done at home? So my brother, for example, always goes there once every 14 days, looks at what's inside, whether there's anything important and if there's anything important, he opens it and takes a photo of it and then sends it to me. Yes, then I can react to what is there. But it has become less and less in this respect. Yes. Speaking of post , you can have anything sent here if you want. Ah yes, right. Parcels, letters, anything works. Yes, sometimes things get lost, we've had them too, but that can also happen at home. Yes, you still have a large apartment in Germany. Yes. How are you doing with the heating? I turn off the heating completely. Yes, but I have monitoring in it. When the temperatures fall below five degrees, it switches on automatically. However, I can also turn it on from here using my cell phone, but then I also have cameras at home. So I can also check whether it's really only five or seven or ten degrees. Well, it's not that cold here in the north at the moment. So there was no frost in the apartment while we were leaving . So you can save a lot of money, although we also have to heat here. Let's put it this way. Yes. OK. Do you have an overview of how much money you spend here? A month? For groceries, I would say a little less than at home because the groceries are a little cheaper here than here. Yes, yes, now I have to pay for the campsite here. At home the rent continues. The costs continue there too. I don't have to pay for gas at home, I don't have to pay for electricity at home. That is of course a small advantage. Otherwise it's not a saving because both run in parallel. So that's just the fact that we are in the warmth or in the south there is the sun. That's the nice thing instead of being at home in the cold and just looking out the window and being annoyed about the bad weather. Yes, then thank you for doing it. Maybe it was quite interesting for some people and I wish you a nice stay and see you. Yes. Thanks. Yes, see you. OK. This was a little insight into the life of long-term campers. Once again I say thank you for watching and bye bye until next time.