(audience applauds) All right, good evening everyone. So I'm here to crush your cosmic dreams of life in the universe. No, I'm just trying to add some balance and some fairness and transparency to this discussion. I think many of us, of course, are optimistic and hopeful that there is life in the universe, but sometimes that optimism and bias, it is a form of bias, can lead us astray. And so that's what I'll talk about today, is just trying to keep and give you an argument, or really break down as to why it is that we could actually be the only ones in the galaxy or maybe even beyond, So we're gonna start with I hear this all the time, and this is a great lead off from the quiz because we just heard in that quiz how many stars are there in the galaxy, and it was a gigantic So there's billions upon billions, as Carl Sagan famously said. And so when you think about that, you know, you think, &quot;Well, surely if there's and planets in the galaxy, then how can you possibly One way to kind of visualize with just a very, very simple version of the famous Drake equation, a simplified version of his equation would be to say the number would be the number of stars, roughly, multiplied by the fraction of those stars that go on to have living So this fl term is the We do know how many We can just go out with our telescopes and count them up. But how do we estimate fl? That's a really hard number So we know this is 10 to the 11, and in order for there more than just us, then this would have to for there to be more than just us. That's one in 100 billion probability that would mean there'd So that's kind of the argument As I said, it's not just me. Listen to some other famous, much more famous scientists than myself tell you the same thing. But I'm gonna check the - Do you think that there is life outside of Earth, intelligent life in the universe? - Absolutely there is life elsewhere, and almost certainly intelligent life. There has to be, the odds There's 200 billion stars in this galaxy. Well, now it looks like every star has about 10 planets so there's almost - I assume it's the most are we alone? - My best guess is that the universe is teaming with life. - There's surely other civilizations out there in the universe. There are 350 billion galaxies out there in the universe. - Okay, so you're seeing the same thing being That's why probably my because it's actually a much to go out and say, &quot;Of course there's life in the universe.&quot; It sells better headlines. You're gonna get invited if you say that. But I'm really trying to a little bit and just push back on that. And, you know, Elon on this a while ago . You know, of course if Elon Musk says it, it must be true. So he said, you know, in this tweet here, &quot;Latest scientist predicts there's trillions of alien civilizations.&quot; And then this is really and Sean Carroll, a well-known posts this very succinctly, &quot;That is not necessarily true. It really depends on Why couldn't fl be 10 Why couldn't it be 10 to the -50? Because if that was true, then it would just be us And there's no reason why is any more or less likely than 10% or 1% or 0.1%. We have no idea what fl is. All bets are on the table. So it's, you know, just a that you can deconstruct Yes, there's an astronomical but there might be an of life starting. That's, as far as we know, consistent with everything So this is a difficult problem. Just to show you a kind of scale here, if fl was 1%, 10 to the -2, and we multiply it here by 10 to the 11, then there'd be a billion civilizations or a billion living worlds in the galaxy. But as I said, it could be 10 to the -11, in which case it's just us, or 10 to the -50, in which case the vast majority of galaxies are empty. There's no one in them. Or you can keep going, all the way, all the way over. It doesn't really stop, right? You can just keep going. So this is kind of a problem. Until we have an idea of fl, you can't really claim this. So the second argument some would say, &quot;Okay, okay, fine. Kipping, I believe you. I can't use this argument, but you are saying that we And the astronomers kind of have a knee-jerk reaction to that, because the sun is not special. There's plenty of stars like the sun. There's plenty of planets like the planets we have So why should we be special? And this is sometimes called after Nicholas Copernicus who looked out and said, &quot;Well, surely there's and they look fairly similar to our own.&quot; And so this is seems to also called the mediocrity principle. So Nicholas Copernicus, I'm sure this is not a but, you know, kind of imagining him looking at the star and thinking about others out there. So let me just break down why this also doesn't work, okay? So let's imagine we do an experiment. We're all gonna pick a ball out of a special urn that And anyone who picks a ball and doesn't pick a green I'm gonna shoot dead with, you know, a very perverse experiment We sometimes do this in the but I've been told I can't (audience laughs) and then I'm gonna collect all the people, all the survivors together. And, of course, all the survivors must have picked a green ball because we got rid of And now, for all of those survivors, you don't know anything That's all you know. You don't know about how You just know that you And I'm gonna now ask are in this urn that I've got down here. Given that you know the following, you know that you've picked a green ball and you also know that, had you wouldn't be here to talk about it, you wouldn't be able to even have these thoughts. And I don't care how you're not gonna be able to work that out. There's not enough It's an impossible problem. And it's really the same There's all these worlds and we happened to pick But we also know, had we not picked a living world to be on, we wouldn't be here to talk about it. So it's the same problem. You cannot estimate how based on your own existence. You are only here because That's kind of the problem. So we call this survivorship bias. It's a form of selection bias. Astronomers worry about If you look up at the sky, most of the stars that you are not actually stars They're stars more like giant stars. It's not because giant it's just 'cause they shine much brighter. It's a very strong selection bias we have known as Malmquist bias in astronomy. The most common type is a red dwarf star, and you can't see any red 'cause they're too dim. But they're the most common That's another selection bias. And, over here, we have a very strong one, we're only here because we are here. So this isn't gonna work. And I would just tell you fundamentally doesn't work whenever it concerns statements upon which your existence depends upon. It doesn't work in those cases. It's fine to apply it We have a Neptune, it's other solar systems have Neptunes. We'd probably be here whether But when you're talking about things that we depend upon for existence, then you can't use it. So I've demolished that one. And then the next one that is the emotional appeal. This is the one that So, you know, you might have someone like Professor Loeb here who would say something like this, you know, &quot;It's extremely arrogant for us to claim that there's no other or, &quot;extremely arrogant to We're the height of whatever. We must be humble and assume these kinds of statements. And these kind of statements bother me because they are making emotional appeals. They're basically saying, you know, &quot;If you disagree with me, And so that's already kind of setting it, that's not a logical scientific argument. That's an argument that's an ad hominem attack, essentially, to the person who disagrees So it's gonna be very hard to disagree with Professor Loeb If he &quot;You are extremely arrogant And you'll like, &quot;Oh, I feel 'cause I don't wanna be So this is not a good scientific argument, in my book, to start using characterization of the other party who disagrees with you. Now, I just say, you know, when you look at this speciality thing, I tend to think of it Every single snowflake is There's never been two and that's simply because of arranging ice crystals is an astronomically huge number. So no matter, you know, even if we live for another five billion we will never have two ice crystals or two snow crystals the same. And I would say the same thing is probably gonna be arguably true or potentially true for chemistry. Chemistry is extremely rich, has very diverse ways of creating things. It's quite possible that this speciality that we impose about ourselves is merely one part of a spectrum of all the different ways across the universe. And any arrogance is the arrogance that we are assuming this We're just a flavor. The only specialty we impose upon it is our own ego that this from all the other types of chemistry. So you can kind of push back about this arrogance So the next argument we is you start to get desperate. And we have four altogether. This is my third that you sometimes hear, it's that, &quot;Okay, fine, I believe you about these previous two, but here's something life started quickly on the Earth.&quot; The Earth is four and a but as far as we can tell, life got started very quickly. And when you look at it does indeed seem quite that life must get going Here's the timeline, very roughly, of our home planet, the Earth. So let's say time equals zero That was about four and or 4.4 billion years ago, to be precise. About just less than a if I put on my marker here, we have the first microfossils that have been discovered. So we know that life was definitely on Earth by this point. It was presumably present Because if life is sophisticated enough that it can leave microfossils behind, then there must have been that didn't do this. So life probably got We don't know exactly where. Then we go all the way out And, of course, we have intelligence, however you wanna define intelligence, things that can do astronomy, think about the universe. We have creatures like ourselves that are emerging at 4.4 billion years. You can actually push this Hominids have been around on the Earth for about two or three million years. But if you push this two or that's going back by 0.003 on this scale, right? We are very, very recent Okay, and then I think is that the Earth will to complex life fairly soon. Now, you may have heard that the sun will eventually evolve in like five billion years time, and you're like, &quot;Well, that's so far up I don't And that's true, but on the sun's growing luminosity will push the Earth out It will no longer be Probably some single-celled but nothing like us, that can wonder about the universe will be left after this point. So that's kind of interesting, 'cause we kind of emerged And if you open the book of Earth, the history of Earth and you have life starting very, very quickly on the first chapter and you have intelligent life emerging almost in the last chapter of that book. And that's kind of So let's come back to this argument. People would look at this and say, &quot;Well, this is the proof, This seems like a good argument, therefore, it should indeed be true that life starts coming.&quot; It makes sense just on this scale. Here's the problem with this, so let's say life got started And we know that it took this long to get to us, about four billion years, four billion years of evolution. That's going all the way from the very simple cell organisms going to eukaryotes, combogenesis, all these developments that have happened in the evolutionary chain. Four billion years to get to us. Multicellular organisms only happened 600 or 700 million years ago. And the vast majority, it's just single celled stuff out here getting more and more sophisticated. Now, if this time, if the for the one example we this is typically how long to go all the way to something like us that can think about the universe, then the latest we could move this back to would be here, right? If life started here, there would still be time before the clock ends. Which means, given that we are here, given that we are that in order for us to be life has to start very quickly because evolution is so slow. If it didn't start quickly, we wouldn't be here to talk about it. And maybe on most exoplanets it does start much, much later than this. It's just that, because it they don't have enough time to get to us. We are the lucky ones to get started quickly in that case. So if this is true, and we but if this is true that that takes evolution to get then the quick start to life is not actually interesting. If that's the minimum time it takes, how long it took on Earth, then life starting quickly is a requirement to our existence. It's a requirement. It is not an interesting that has anything to do with optimism for life in the universe. Kind of depressing. We can consider the If, let's say this was how to go from single cell which, you know, by the way, would be pretty surprising because that didn't happen on Earth, then this is a completely different story. Now life could get going and still have time to So in this case, we would look and say, &quot;Hey, that's That wasn't a necessary fact. It happened early, that's that this is a quick process.&quot; Then it's reasonable to do something. But I think you'd be a hard sell to convince people that this was true because how come then on Earth for this to get going? Okay, so this is kind of the problem. So I would say, in this case, the time needed was much less, life starting quickly isn't a requirement. Then we could say that But as I said, this is with Earth's history. Now, as it happens, actually, I did write a paper about this correcting for all of these effects, going through all the statistics properly, dealing with all of these subtleties. And I'm just not gonna go I'm just gonna give you the result. And the result is, when you and you really work it through, the probability that life starts quickly, it's a fast process compared is three to one, which is good news. So I am not gonna completely There is a bit of good news here. As far as we can tell, the fact that life started early does slightly hint, three to one odds, not 10 to one, not 100 to there is a hint that that and maybe, indeed, life Now the big caveat with what I did, and I can tell you this is that all I could do where we rerun time on Earth, like, you go back to the beginning of time and you let events play out again. Like the butterfly effect, you just slightly perturb things and see how things play out. That was kind of the thought So it has to be pretty on exact Earth-like planets, the same amount of ocean, everything's the same, the same asteroids hit In that case, then I would say, on those types of planets, probably start quickly. But the big problem is we have no idea how common that is. And I can tell you this again as someone who works in exoplanets, we know of many Earth-sized planets. We are starting to find them. And we even are finding at the right distance But, you know, you've got things like this that happened in Earth's history. This is when the moon was formed, it was a a planet about that crashed into the Earth and led to the formation of our moon. And that seems to have in our history, let's say. And it's not clear how often that happens on other planets. You know, because, apparently, nowhere else in the solar We can certainly say that. There doesn't appear to be any other moons like our own moon in the solar system that formed this way. So perhaps this is a really weird event. And many people think could be quite important to the story of why we're here in the first place. So those were all the arguments that we've covered so far. And the last one was the extremophiles. We also had this in the the tardigrade that can survive in space. And this might be your a little bit argument here. You'd be saying, &quot;Well, you know, I'm optimistic because you It could be a Venus, it could be a Mars, and you could still have life because I could take a tardigrade, I could put it on Mars for three years or whatever.&quot; So maybe there's some optimism there, but I think we have to look at this. So let's do a vote. Which of these do you the most reasonable On the left we have in extreme temperatures, pressures, acidity, salinity, et cetera, et cetera. Surely this proves that Whereas, on the right, same thing, but we're saying surely this proves that life can thrive anywhere. So if you think the answer If you think the answer Yes, I would say B is the more And really the problem and all the extremophiles are extremely sophisticated Very, very sophisticated things are going on inside their cells. This is a protein motor that's kind of dragging a cell behind it. I mean, this is all going and on an even more sophisticated level inside extremophiles. Life did not start like this. When you have, you know, a pile of mud and water and a few bits of organic molecules hanging together, this was not the first in that pool. This is the product of four Arguably, extremophiles are that we know about. So the fact that we have such extremely doesn't mean that they the first originators of Probably the very first were very fragile and could not survive much of a temperature range, a pressure range and acidity range. Those are all mechanisms over a very long period. So I don't think we can and really say, &quot;This proves, therefore, that life can start anywhere.&quot; Maybe it does, but I don't It doesn't disprove it, Okay, so we've kind of gone I've crushed all your dreams, and maybe the only thing is that I want to believe. And I totally get that, I want to believe that this is true. Let me hear what Carl Here's a good way of thinking about this. Let's see if this plays. - Let's look a little What is faith? It is belief in the absence of evidence. Now I don't propose to tell anybody what to believe, but, for me, believing when there's no The idea is to withhold belief until there is compelling evidence. - So he's saying that, what is faith? Faith is belief in the in the absence of evidence. I think that's a really And I think, in this case, we don't have any evidence for aliens. So any belief that you in the universe is a position of faith. Vigorously I would claim that's true. And it's okay to have a but it is a position of faith. It's not a scientific based on any evidence On the other hand, Sagan debating Sagan, Sagan also said that is not evidence of absence. And that's also a very good point. The fact that we haven't the fact that we don't see stars which have been transformed the fact that we don't apparently see galactic civilizations, that they aren't out there. We can always think of ways that maybe they're just xenophobic, maybe they're shy, maybe So it doesn't disprove it either, okay? However, I would say about the galaxy so far is consistent with us being alone. That is consistent. Now, I would just say my real conclusion, the real point of this whole talk is to be agnostic on this, okay? If someone asks you, &quot;Do you believe there is you don't have to say yes or no. You can say, &quot;I don't know.&quot; And those three scientists should have said that, in my opinion. If we don't have data we shouldn't be saying, &quot;Well, you know, the answer is this.&quot; Because as a scientist or we are expected to justify That's kind of the whole point of science is evidence-based reasoning. There's no evidence in this case. And I would also claim that It's dangerous because it So this is a well known in psychological experiments. If a psychologist who's thinks they know what the they subtly influence their subjects. And, actually, you end up It's called verification bias as well. The most famous example is Percival Lowell, a And he wrote this in his book, he wrote, &quot;That Mars is inhabited by beings of some sort or another as it is uncertain what I mean, this was over 100 years ago. He was convinced there absolutely convinced, He got to the telescope, and he started to draw these lines which he claimed must be canals. There must be a canal system on Mars. So, for decades, people were convinced there was a canal system on Mars. It turned out Percival Lowell had one of the greatest and he was actually in the back of his eye. So that's how good his eyesight was. (audience members laughs) And he'd been told by optometrists that he had the best And so that was a that whatever he saw must be true because my eyesight is so good. Of course, you know, 100 years later, we have this gorgeous image of Mars and we know none of that was true. So having a position like that, believing something is can be very, very dangerous. So I would just say to it's okay to be agnostic, to withhold your belief until evidence comes either way. If you start sticking your foot in the mud and saying, &quot;I think this,&quot; it can be difficult to Just wait for the evidence and we'll see. I'm hopeful there's life out there, but I wanna see and collect Thank you, everyone. (audience applauds)