I'm going to share with you 10 things that But before that, I want to set the, if I could operates from. It's a warfare world view. have. Which explains why some Christians don't and it's the warfare world view is one. The The blueprint worldview really started with Augustine introduced a version of the sovereignty is ultimately responsible, He initiates, and of some mysterious glory, that He doesn't even verses to justify, there's enough verses but any truth of God, when you stretch it Same thing even with deliverance. You stretch ignoring discipleship, ignoring discipline, and other stuff. So what I believe Saint Augustine and further with this view, and I'm just going really kind of says this: There is God, and of His mysterious will for His glory. Makes God is the one that authored it. So what it The headache is God's glory, a child being it goes as far that God sends some people, His glory. I love the idea of God's glory, world view in Christ, and it's not a world He says, Your Kingdom come on earth, as it the earth is part of what God wants. He stops sick. So if God willed it, then Christ rebelled God doesn't will evil, He is at war with evil. you cannot embrace the ministry of deliverance, the paradigm which confuses you and makes God for it? And this is how it happens in churches today give me strength to bear the affliction of midst of my cancer.&quot; I get it. God can use We get that. God is able to use the foolish Him for His strength, it goes contrary to, all those oppressed by the devil. And then to the doctor and say, &quot;Doctor, do you have help me to bear it; doctor help me to get in one day we say, &quot;God thank you for making for the best doctor to help us get cured. Doctors are enemies of God then, and we're So that's the world view that I call blueprint view, it makes you a soldier. Not a spectator of revolt, not prayers of resignation. &quot;If and you fight in accordance to the word that at war and you are not in a Disney vacation. And it's better to be a fighter in the garden, If your world's view is that life is a Disney why bad things happen to good people. If your that any good happens to you. Because when you're a soldier and you go to you're grateful you came alive. You're not and your fries. You don't complain, &quot;Oh, the about the lack of comfort in the war zone to go with the vacation world view into a So the foundation, the framework, the paradigm the world view that every Christian has to battle. Yet, nevertheless, we are not on a Normandy. It'll remove most of your complaining. It questions Christians have, &quot;Why do evil things And God becomes this ally that we work with of someone that we constantly blame and accuse amen. The ministry of deliverance, there's miracles were healing and 7 were deliverance. answering the cry of his people. God sent of My people. I'm sending you.&quot; Deliverance is not a show. Deliverance is It's not to be hashtag a demon slayer or to have some power over other entities. Deliverance ministry of compassion. Moses wasn't going a best-selling novel. It wasn't so that Hollywood him. It was ultimately this thing. God felt that He has chosen one of His people, who them back to. He has given them the power the forces that hold His people hostage and blueprint of a deliverance ministry. Moses As though working harder would liberate them deliverance you will always tell the oppressed their work ethic, their problem is Pharaoh Meaning it doesn't cripple him. It actually task wasn't to blame the people of God to the forces that were making their life miserable, of that grip, and that's really what deliverance discipleship. All of that has its place. But discipline, therapy, counseling, medicine, the person by those acts. Demons, they have to just pray to God. He went straight to Pharaoh as he confronted him, then they were gone. it's a ministry of compassion, it's a ministry and it's a ministry of confrontation with 10 simple things. None of them are super deep concerning the ministry of deliverance. Number from; we do know for sure where they're going. There are four ideas of where demons came are spirits of evil men and women. Not really appointed for a man to die once and then there's on the earth, and if Dad, you know aunt Sally a spirit, and so your aunt Sally is gone, to you in the dream. It's somebody else, and should be talking to. The second view of demons, spirits of pre-Adamic race. It's based on Genesis 1:2, there was this space where God everything. Though that idea is popular in else in the Scripture. So we, I don't know, most common Christian Orthodox view of where angels from heaven with satan. Christians cast from heaven with satan the devil, right Scripture comes from the foot of the birth really became popular through an English, Paradise Lost. So that's what really popularized more dominant right now in a lot of circles, of other authors and scholars who write books spirits of the dead Nephilim giants who perished 6. Now people say, what do I think? I don't Jesus never addressed it, and so now there does allude to the fact that demons are disembodied makes very little difference where they come Jesus never felt to address it to His disciples, where they come from, as long as you know and removed from people. That's really all lake of fire is where they're gonna go. So you're in a good team. The second thing that or dealing with demons, number two is that be demonized by demons. Now, demon possession. appears nowhere in the New Testament in the appearance of the word &quot;demon possession&quot; other English versions prior to 1611 Edition. distracts people from the important discussion hearing the word &quot;demon possession&quot; can remove Exorcist. So when people hear the demon possession of the movie Exorcist. Now, there is not one it tells us satan owns anything. I don't think he possesses anything. Even God made them, before they went rogue. The he owns it. I would go on the limb, I could He absolutely possesses nothing. Now can he my house, a mice doesn't own my house. It my house, they don't own it. So to give satan he takes ownership of people. I just don't King James translation, but the original Greek satan possesses people. Now the idea that not to be owned or possessed. So therefore the idea the Westerns use, &quot;Christians could be demon oppressed.&quot; I get it. It's easier Yeah. So we sugarcoat it to be easier to swallow. from the terminology of demonic possession word is demonization, not demon possession in the Greek. I'm not going to pronounce it speak Greek anyway. So it doesn't make very the Greek words and the Hebrew words. The in the Bible, in the New Testament there's You know the the first one is it deals with 16 times. So a person who has a demon. The a demon or inhabited by a demon, the second is the person with a demon, similar as, has by or with an unclean spirit is used once word &quot;demonized,&quot; the four types of way that thing. It's a person who is indwelled by a it's in each person. Now Catholics have four in this regard, got it right. Their idea of and structured than a lot of Protestants. one umbrella, have one Pastor. His name is when you got just one thing, and you control got the movie, I think released today by the, priest who did like 90 000 deliverances, and Genuinely he was used of God to drive out experience freedom in their life. So to the will differ from case to case. What people those people walking on the street who are on the street who speaks and who is mental say that a person who has no legs is demon deformity. Some people in the streets literally organ, just like your legs and everything have because we have lack of understanding Charismatic, we label everything under the scripturally, and it's not accurate medically. theologically speaking is not accurate and an influence or indwelling of an evil spirit. or possessed by a demon. It simply means that and runs their life, to some degree, controls is in their weak moments or in their weaknesses say this, &quot;I lost control.&quot; Well somebody would say, &quot;I blacked out, punched my wife. of course people look at them are like, &quot;Oh the reality of the situation. Somebody took seat of their faculties, and because they at the right moment he took over the wheel Though the devil will not suffer in hell for for pushing the person, is wrong. We don't blame the devil, we battle the devil. of Eden, Adam wouldn't fall. He had no flesh, him, until a voice came and says, &quot;Should pressure caused him to commit sin. Satan is say, no, you know this whole deliverance thing, responsible, and just teaching people not stuff. No, no, that has this place, but if a person, there will be moments person will or thoughts, or particular things in their in such a way, from the inside, not from the experience that, you don't know what that never experienced that, this does not mean us that that experience for people is very lives inside of them, has a mind of its own, to push those cravings onto you, to satisfy come from the outside but from right here, cravings, creates terrors, vexation and things we don't take people's stories as the doctrine, in the Scriptures. A person cuts themselves, cases of what we call the demon possession. with a mental illness. What those two guys demonizations with a mental illness, because mind. The Bible says they were restore in restores everybody's mind. The same way not though many do. Many deliverances, people get delivered from a demon and didn't even deliverance brings physical healing to every for that. So are you with me? Number three. They shouldn't, but they can. Do Christians have a flesh? Yes, the old man still there. The works of the flesh, have Pretty heavy list. I mean honestly, that's who say that Christians cannot be indwelled, or be demonized by a demon. The argument is in the Scripture that indicates that Christians that people use to argue that Christians cannot and things read into Scriptures the Scriptures me, then how can you prove that Christians have to prove to me that they can't and you what I will argue is for this. Jesus never He did deliverance. Who did Jesus deliver heal? Those who had sickness, and who did So this is my very simple theology. The Gospel deliverance is for the demonized. Now how they got that demon, that's the second they said, &quot;I have a demon.&quot; Of course I would a person's testimony. Twice that I see, there's one time a father comes to Jesus, says, my have a medical examination done? He doesn't demons. The other time a woman who did not is severely demon possessed or demonized. Jesus didn't say, how do you hurting people was accurate. So what makes you think, somebody just because That somehow that now qualifies you. &quot;Nah, that can't happen.&quot; If did their own diagnosis without Google, looked know. Not a doctor, I'm not a therapist and This has to be another worldly, there's some Jesus, I think I know what they have. A devil. school? He said, no let's drive that thing in Matthew 10 to disciples, He says go, preach Jesus doesn't sa,y make sure it's only casting a distinction. We just don't see this panic, Isaiah Saldivar likes to say, Christians can had a person sitting in my office a few months I said, &quot;What reason?&quot; He said, &quot;Because I I said, &quot;Really? Because of that you left &quot;So how do you explain all of that stuff that it but I just I'm very firm, Christians cannot said, would you answer to me only one question? &quot;Can Christians give place to demons?&quot; He said, &quot;Yes pastor.&quot; I said, &quot;You just debunked I'm like, &quot;So how can they give place to something He's like, &quot;Yeah, that's, that is tricky.&quot; for me.&quot; I said, &quot;You're the one with the 'Do not give place to the devil.' The original quarter, license spot. Any portion or space of the house. When me and my wife got our marriage, we had a few extra rooms in the a roommate. One room was for a roommate and It's whomever we found that needed a place we've had roommates live in our house. The for them. They also had other place where places they could never enter, under no circumstances. contacts. Just because I owned the house, this does there. Your body, your life, the Bible describes You're perceived as a house, you have rooms. had different outer court, inner court and went to the outer court and drove out. The demons. Drove out merchants. Merchants were territory. Jesus drove them out. So to say Now just because you can't or you don't. Excuse mean that other people aren't capable of having is not theological, it's a pride issue, because a demon. That opens a can of worms. What if you do? What if behind some of these behaviors that guests, that have become roommates, who have a contract, who have the key. And they come in the morning live there, and because they don't harass ah can't be a demon. Why not? Now my perception on this, &quot;can Christians place that had demons, they never left because out. In fact, demons manifested when He came. out. The word &quot;cast out&quot; by Jesus used so He cast them out. He's the son of God, so Like yeah, I know people can have demons, is the argument, because when we come to Jesus, demons are cast out. The idea is cute. I gotta place in the Gospels where the presence of presence provoked them. It didn't expel them, He enters in, they automatically leave? If Where did they go? So if you had demons before going to tell you where they went. Into hiding. and they're causing hell right now in your after getting saved, their life got worse, sticks and a viper was there, it was when its true colors. So sometimes people would to Christ, and it's like, man, everything is that those demons either went out of hiding of God. But for most Christians, their demons up in your weak moments. And because the theological rid of them, they have domesticated. And you removed, but they are padded by a theological them. And you will be silently suffering, because you're afraid to entertain the thought Now some of you maybe say, &quot;Well Vlad, man not my goal. I'm just defending my position. Usually after teaching like this everybody's And we'll balance this out. I'm just stretching the most common one that I get thrown at me. light and darkness cannot be together. Now &quot;Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers.&quot; not about demonization, okay. So he's pretty what he does not say. He does not say Christians He's isn't saying it's something we can't of you wouldn't be dating the person that your neighbor. Your neighbor, the one that is working just fine. He's just getting ready not biblical but effective. Paul is not saying Christians can anot be should not. If Christians cannot have demons, I would There absolutely can't. It's not possible. of thought. First of all, Paul isn't talking And then he says, Christians do not be unequally. capable of doing, but should not, and then what? I didn't hear it? He didn't say coexistence. Flesh is lawlessness. Jesus is righteousness. Righteousness and lawlessness always coexist. a coffee. They don't share common interests. says they can't fellowship. Fellowship is fellows in one ship. We are not fellows. Righteousness That's a good word right there. I'm almost For what fellowship has righteousness with word is there? I did not hear it? Communion. no way saying light and darkness cannot coexist. they're not on the same frequency. They're do you work with non-Christians? Are you neighbors you don't have is you don't have a covenantal what Paul is saying. Don't enter into covenant to be equally. They're on a different frequency, why? Because even righteousness and lawlessness, just don't like each other. Light and darkness, eye. They don't communicate. They're not in to say, &quot;Christians could not have demons That's taking the Scripture out of context. Now, and I can go on and on. I'm just gonna with me? Is this helping anybody? Now one by layer, is because even in a room like this dragon slayers, giant killers. All of that who a lot of times, we go in and we have arguments, Not to destroy you but the arguments that are destroyed, many times it helps us to receive the right thing to do, you just don't know to equip you with the right arguments as well, This is not just something we pulled out of just absolutely love demons. We don't like and if demons are hurting people, we want name. Number four. There are three main entries entries for demons. They all start with &quot;i.&quot; is intrusion, and the third &quot;i&quot; is involvement. intrusion and involvement. Now inherited, on through the bloodline. Now how that works percent sure. I do know that some demons go that happens during deliverance where they through the generational curses, and those intervined. I do know a common occurrence die, is they would say, &quot;Something came on your relative, the spirits, they don't die. kin. If the next of kin is not born again, curses. Typically what you will see is that people have demons living in the basement almost, by some kind of a trauma, some kind start to harass people. That's what happened three generation. That's what she claims is side, everyone struggled with loneliness, to the point of just, just battling with that. in Vancouver Washington. So it was about three I met her, I mean this happy, beautiful, bubbly lonely or any, any of that sort. So we get a switch happens to her. She starts to struggle. It's not going to be a big deal and so a few she adjusted so bad she started to have chronic, other night. That I would wake up from her was. Every place she tried to connect in our a Lot's wife who became a pillar of salt. wife hated people in the church. She felt I was like, what just happened to this girl? I married. Now some of you may say, &quot;Well, I asked her pastor who she was. I know the when she moved. Now, I could blame it on our a year. Now in the beginning, we were not about deliverance, but honestly looking at way you could be a demon. She just needs to people, try harder. She had no friends. She She would go to work, she had a challenge she would, things just, just literally. It's I'm not gonna lie to you. That year, I had Did I marry a wrong person, because I'm like, ministry that I have. She's gonna totally Little one, but lethal, and then. I remember I thought, because I'm doing everything nice. And her best friend which is her sister, marry one of the guys in our church and move. a secret blind date for her sister. She comes the guy, she hates our city. And I was like, One doesn't like to be here, the other one I wanted to blame our church, oh the church like, other people are coming to church. They're her. First I was blaming her, and then like actually through a prophecy, when prophetic loneliness going through her mother's side. She didn't get delivered during that time. that I'm not dealing with my wife. I'm dealing So no longer was I fighting my wife, now I And no, I wasn't casting demons out of her is to love my wife, not to deliver her. Because his spouse than loving his spouse. First of in the Bible where the Bible says, husbands I think that's important if the wife is asking pray for her, love her, and when she's ready, super effective, but we took her to other a sense of relief, felt like something was she was trained, that I'm dealing with something It was easier for the person to differentiate There's something foreign to me. It took about at the post office. She listened to sermons know when she was sorting mail and delivering about a year, a year and a half, her mind that the demon, when it was cast out, she was cast out, the stronghold had to be broken, truth and we'll mention that in just a moment. actually started getting more paid than me. to get people to like her in the church, she wanted to talk to and started to pour love her or not. She just found those nobody else from 1 group to 12 groups, and she doesn't groups multiplied, like crazy. Today she oversees married to my brother. That's when you know you're delivered indeed. in Tri-Cities. Now she has friends and she from the church that she came from and her whatever you did with our daughter, she's principle for marriage, I have three principles kill the snakes. What many people do who don't understand deliverance, is there, I'm just gonna kill that and that. snake by killing the spouse. Kill the snake, build a person, you fight, you battle the if they are in the same person, amen. So inherited. in the womb when a child is conceived out a child is conceived in rape and there is not saying this happens in every case. When want to have children, and she keeps saying not want to be pregnant.&quot; This is what happens. of 16, that rejection invites rebellion, and my kid rebellious? Because rejection always where the person is like almost like destroyed, brothers, he walked away from Christ, started them before his you know he came out of that very rebellious, very rebellious life, and He would rededicate his life to Christ, only was very, very brave. She set him down and were conceived, I already had three children. not want fourth pregnancy. And I was very miserable. I said things I I do believe it affected you because none And she said, &quot;I don't know if this is going I can cancel any legal right.&quot; And she said, for my brother. My mom, my mom is a godly believe something was broken over his life. get pregnant, be careful what you say, be hard. Those words, they do have power and down the road with stuff, that in the moment anger and kept on saying that. That could the womb, before the war. Now intrusion. How when a child is very young. And a lot of times psyche, a child's mind was never meant to pain. And it breaks something in the child do well, some break. During that breaking the road, you will see that from that point for weak points and weak moments. The same get into your house? He's not looking for lock. If he sees a window open, that's most to try to go through the door, if it's locked. For demons, what's open is this. When you're he's looking for weaker moments, where you're if you have some kind of a good support system, a child mentally and emotional so stable, stuff and actually come out fine. And some break, and the enemy enters in, and then those How another way intrusion happens almost always is almost, almost always a demonic intrusion 100%. I remember praying for this lesbian she was raped by her uncle. Which in the United get demons is actually through abuse. If it's States, well now a cult is also that because And so we're praying for this girl, you know her through repentance and we asked her, like in occult? She was like, no never done, never usually is have you ever been abused? She me. Which reinforces that trauma. She's like, us what happens, we lead her to prayer and like, oh okay, well now this makes sense where through the cross, we lead her to the Gospel the demon was removed. So then you would say, was a victim?&quot; See, the same way as if you like, oh look, I'm gonna have pity on them, won't steal their car. Thieves don't think that's how the enemy is, He's looking for and pain you're going in. He doesn't care intrusion is the second main way that the is involvement, and this is where majority is when we get involved with the witchcraft, is so popularized today, that in our culture the dead, you know consulting the psychics, things that are about spells and portals and all of that exposes the person to the demonic is you're stepping on the territory where you, but to torment you. An example, when Actually I even struggled with math in America she was a doctor. She helped me with my math. was demon possessed, like it was not a holy Shepherds are demon-possessed but this one barked. They had this on this very heavy chain meaning they don't live in the house, they god-given function. Protect the house instead my dog is right now. Princess. And so this thick chain. Now, I'm like 11 years of age went. So I knew the dog's limits. So I would as close, of course a little distance, but Shepherd. I would go like this. You know and I enjoyed it, and you know at when I knew how far and how strong the chain came and I didn't see the German Shepherd. So I was thinking they took the dog away for 11 year old mind always wondered, how the not an idiot. So I looked from a distance. I knew he wasn't there and he wasn't there is very small and the dog is big. So nothing a very tiny molecule, which I knew that's Don't, don't think I was an idiot. I didn't aside and I stepped on the territory that see him, so I had every legitimate excuse on my knees and I stuck my head inside of okay. Relax. He was not there. What I did How I didn't do that math. I don't know. So was left. My head is inside and I hear something is right in front of me and I am caged toward hide in in his house, and there's no door So I did what I knew how to do. Yell, scream trained. He went for my leg. I won't open let go. He ripped so much stuff on my leg, a shock. Thankfully because I screamed the and she had to, without anesthesia, stitch Very powerful lesson on deliverance I learned do witchcraft. I don't do occult, and I don't even come close I've had an experience with something that He can tempt everyone. He cannot torment everyone, you. Accusation, doubt, sending thoughts, It's different when he bites. That's already that you bleed out. It hurts. That's different, step on the territory that you knew, or Scripture, be doing that stuff. I shouldn't be talking be playing with the ouija boards just because have just released a Christian ouija board. Yeah, they have Christian ouija boards on things. &quot;Oh but it's white magic.&quot; It's still Now this is why we do it in America. Curiosity, are falling out. We are the most open-minded just want to be respectable to other cultures, know really make my yoga, teacher, neighbor go ahead and align my chakras to connect to to experience other cultures. Well let me tell you, I wish I could show are better to be avoided. So I just want to challenge those of you that not to experience certain things. And to say, want to do, step on the territory of that be me and my family.&quot; Are you with me? Yes. Prophet, my time is done, but I still have When a preacher, when a preacher does this. When have you ever seen a Pastor said, no, I'm just incriminating myself, so but anyways, lunch, just for a little bit. Postpone the Let's go through the rest of them faster. is crucified. So nothing new but it's something not leave when demons do. Demons cannot be has to be crucified, regularly, and demons say, &quot;Well, how do you know if it's a flesh to that. Jesus says, &quot;If your eye causes you the eye out and still something is seeing, You got company. If you cut the hand out and something is still is usually this. If a gentleman comes to me me from the spirit of lust.&quot; I first ask him, by mutilation is have you sacrificed? Have discipline? And I ask him, &quot;What does that in battling against the flesh, lust of the a spirit. Typically it's more flesh than a ask them simple questions. Do you read the first before we go into deliverance. Or even read the Bible. Secondly, do you fast? What, you fast? Thirdly, do you pray? Do you regularly pray? kind of prayer life? Number four. Is there have set on the usage of social media or whatever And so if those four or five questions and likely, even if we get rid of the demon, you're So honestly, do you really want to even get It's like being in debt fifty thousand dollars in debt. If we get rid of the two thousand, So I said, &quot;Listen, just keep the demon there Why don't you first go and cut some stuff will weaken and the demon, if it's a demon. a demon, right away. You will know that right in your life something will be like, if it's it will be very clear. 4K HD. Like it's gonna sure without a shadow of a doubt. Right now have no discipline in your life. Oh I struggle with depression. Do you have spirit of depression. Hmm, the Bible says living technically in disobedience to the first. Eight hours a day, hard work. After not depression. Unless you have a demon, then clearly. To go in into deliverance, only into there is a flesh, and flesh is not dealt with your Christian life. Number six. Demons are are cast out, strongholds are cast down. 2 down arguments and every high thing that exhalts every thought into captivity to the obedience stay in, and open doors is how the demons indwell a person, they really have two main task is to destroy your life. The second task get them out, you will still live in perpetual will do the work of the demon. Makes sense when they were free. Because when they were stuff for Pharaoh, he was building something Barracuda fish. They put a Barracuda fish, for lunch. Not a good fish. In the fish tank fish did what all the non-Christian fish do. fish tank. Now of course, glass is see-through it doesn't see glass. They put other fish for lunch. Bam! Hit the glass. Oh, not painful. The next day, the Barracuda fish saw lunch. it's still there. Then it went again, way a while it gave up. What's the point of going a few weeks they remove the glass. The Barracuda Why? Because after repeated cycle, the glass fish. That's not only happening with the fish. You try something so many times and you fail disease. After a while, it begins to build thoughts. Dominant thoughts become part of does not mean you're completely victorious. Son sets free is free indeed.&quot; But yet He the truth sets you free.&quot; Why? Because Jesus down. It's not the truth that gets the strongholds truth is like soap. You can have a truckload because the presence of soap doesn't make makes you clean. The presence of truth doesn't law. They had the teaching of God. The problem is those things didn't have them. How do you you demolish a house. Long time. Very messy work. Now how do you evict somebody leave, the church that stayed here, not that quickly. How many of you know that just because The sign is still in the front showing the left, it doesn't mean what they built was do not only attack you, they also build you. suffer. Unless you join the local church, to remodel your thinking. If you don't, you still tormented and feel like you're demonized. So therefore to only focus on getting demons getting people into a local church getting getting people into memorizing verses, getting you apply the Scripture, getting people into don't do that, what's gonna happen with you Egypt, Egypt not out of them. Pharaoh is gone, talking like slaves, carrying the sign that is like that, the only thing is the Pharaoh Most people who get delivered have this biggest taught more on that than even dealing only from demons is not a big deal. I think they quickly. It's power demonstration and I love All that's, that's incredible. I love that But ultimately when you go home, that's what me. What is running rampant in my mind? And a person. I had rental properties and one for a very long time, and I had to get the evicted him, evicting was easy. Okay, maybe bit longer but still, I'm gonna tell you what's is to demolish the house they lived in. Do just set a bomb and explode. You have to clean new, and that's called breaking down strongholds. break, the way you, so for example, how would or the owners of this building in five minutes apart in at least five months. It's gonna working, taking all the pews, breaking the all of that somewhere. That's it's going to with strongholds is. It's breaking down the indwelt your life. Is this helping anybody? Number seven. Mental illness may not be a demon. Mental mental illness, sometimes it's a result of developed mental illness. We see King Saul, and evil spirit that was attacking him. And that they had a mental illness because the demon. It was not just a demon and it was Gadarenes would be diagnosed today by the that had they have you know schizophrenia. But we see that they had both. They had a in one reference it actually says that they says that they were sitting in their right it comes to mental illness, now I am not a to share, I'm going to quote one doctor. What are in deliverance ministry, please don't as 100% all the time, a demon. Your mind is a pianist, your brain is a piano. brain. Is it possible for a piano to be broken? sound. The problem isn't with the pianist. The problem the charismatics, we believe that everything the world of course taking this way to another people committed suicide, and with Rick Warren's health. Which I think that that has its place. their lives, they had a mixture of both, a differentiate? This doctor who actually had a case of mental illness with his son. He &quot;Strength For His People&quot; mentioned a few you differentiate between the schizophrenia to religion. Mentally ill people have attraction Christian faith. So when you see a mentally love God. They want more of God. They don't an issue with God or Christian faith. Second A person who has mental illness usually will rational manner. People who have untreated schizophrenia would topics. A demon doesn't do that, speaks very the bunny trail with you so that they could The third reason is ordinary learning versus that otherwise could not have been known to mental illness or schizophrenia have no such acquired by normal learning. So that's another phenomena. There is an aspect to a demon activity the effect of the disorder is only on the seen levitation, but I've seen stuff where and throws them across the room. That's not and so you would not see that with people The biggest another reason is they claim to illness claim to have demons, and one of the they have them. It's because there is such for that. Now do some of them have? A hundred that demons like to hide and they're secretive. demon to come out and say, &quot;Hey, I'm here.&quot; thieves do their best to work in secret. So themselves, I'm not talking about somebody come in, &quot;Hey, I have a demon,&quot; and instead out.&quot; You know it would be good to ask a few demon? Oh, I have intrusive thoughts. Have Oh I have this thing. Is there any, has there are people who have injuries. They have an because of that certain chemicals are missing in their bodies. There are people who have to Christ, and some drugs have done so much permanently damaged. Where they need either and help just to stay sane. The same way as and you lose your leg. When you become Christian, Usually you end up without the leg until the brain any different will be unfair to our limit the scope of us helping a person who has a demon, person is somebody who has a And so we should we should be very careful, I remember we had this person manifesting like pretty much. Because when deliverance is a demon. You don't even ask questions, like, &quot;Well hold on, hold on. Just, just hold First of all, I'm like, you don't do a deliverance throwing up. They will throw the vomit back not going to be a demon, it's just going to her up. So they picked her up, sat her down. if she wants to vomit. I asked the husband, the assumption, oh it's a demon. We have to to your wife?&quot; He says, &quot;She has a brain tumor, light, she has seizures.&quot; And I was like, &quot;And when she has seizures, we need to do and stuff. And so we prayed mind, I said, &quot;Hey, would you like us to pray we pray for healing for the brain, if she demon out. But to come in right away with why? Because every person who has a brain that has a fever has a demon too then. You we start going to that thing where everything is a demon. It's not like that, and what we by not just being conscious. You don't have Just ask them questions, see who they are, or don't want deliverance. You don't impose to me that they need deliverance. Well, you want that, that means the Lord has revealed or you pray for them, that God will give them where they experience freedom, amen. Now, is the effects of therapy. If prayer solves problem. It was probably not a mental illness. or removes the problem, then maybe it was with one person, that honestly shook my life, for me when it comes to mental illness. A move to our city but he, he didn't do it because Tri-Cities, and honestly I don't blame him. here, has three children. Three children start well for his kids. He runs over a person on license, and he's facing you know involuntary a coma. At that time our church was smaller Somebody calls the church and says, little my life. I had this situation, I feel like the hospital. And I'm a truck driver, I ran pray?&quot; And I'm like, what do I pray for? I to pray the Lord gives me Scripture. No weapon tongue that rises against you, you will condemn don't know him from Adam. Hang up the phone. A few months later, he shows up in our church. prayed for?&quot; I said, &quot;Wait, the truck driver He's like, &quot;After that prayer, the guy woke The case is dismissed, I still have my license, God. Unfortunately the story doesn't end good. have a good ending. He moves his family to to be here, praise God. Wonderful man. I mean morning prayed prayer, had two trucks, great ago already. He absolutely feels that he can't before who had a fear of driving and they man, we're gonna pray for you. So we pray Okay, we took him through deeper deliverance. So we fasted and prayed. I brought in other a good guy, and plus I was invested in his let the enemy win. I took him to other even men of God from Africa who fasted for a day for about four months. I told him, listen, they prescribe, take some meds and get in to be a vegetable. I was like, well you are is demon. Maybe, but I was like, something to strengthen the other part of whatever that's not saying we're gonna stop but it's just who help with that. He's like no, I just need you need more than Jesus right now. We've that. He was very adamant about not going this stuff. I was encouraging him but I was have a deliverance conference. This minister the situation, he prayed for him every single measure of victory but it wasn't like he got know, you gotta, you gotta go to the doctor him with the Christian doctor. Seven-day Adventist ago that we worked with who was a bus driver. thing I think, five, six kids, big family. brain. He came for deliverance, we prayed, also see, you got delivered but you also need you to do that, and so and this Christian But he worked with him, he didn't want to doctors, there are bad doctors. So there's of medication, and after three months he weaned him off. The guy is as sound as they come. bus, literally father to his kids, a husband we connect my guy to the other guy. They go they went and scheduled an appointment, and my guy hanged himself. I was first on the garage and of course, I didn't believe this so I was like we're gonna bring him back to like this is a great opportunity for the glory going to raise him from the dead. I mean I'm got this. He didn't rise from the dead, so lesson for me. Be very careful about deliverance and to think that deliverance is everything. Christ can come in and solve all of those there yet, and therefore we just have to be Dr Bob Larson, who has done I think as of And he's done deliverances on people in crazy happened I met with him and I said, I'm like, do anything wrong. But he said, Vlad. He said encouraged. He says, you even scheduled the But I'm like, but I feel guilty. I feel, I'm shocked. I was like, I don't know. I'm like like, don't be. But he says, this should serve becoming a deliverance minister for young young people not to treat everything as a says, we need to respect person's wholeness, down strongholds and the need for also medical And I asked him, I said, so in your practice, life after deliverance? Because I'm like, crazy cases. He told me it was two. He says, history and they knew other things they had strict that even after deliverance they seek the joy of deliverance, they ignored that about. And when the episode or something else themselves. You know their family came in, not a clinician, I'm not a doctor. But he family. Ans so I just wanted to kind of as in the United States than ever before, mental lawsuits because deliverance can end you up tell people after they have been. We had a to satan at a young age. She for 10 years who prescribed the medication, he says, I on that dose of medication. So she gets delivered demon. So she gets delivered and so but we of medication. So she goes back home because And she goes cold turkey, 10 years of doses in the morgue right away. And she cold turkey, her that but we also didn't even ask. It was tons of people and so we didn't have the time later, she's so great and everything. And on her co-worker. And so then we had to actually put her in therapy as well. And then to really some stuff on healing and all of this stuff rituals and so much other stuff. And so and this is of course I'm sharing with you dramatic that we are aware and that we don't just kind bipolar. Oh, it's a demon. Let's begin to it's something else, the doctor said. No, It's not always like that, amen. So I have So probably from God. I think prophet had I think this is over, this is good. But I'm the last thing that I still remember in my That is this. Not to be afraid to do deliverance and not Now I did share in the first session, there your jurisdiction. Our jurisdiction is demons those demons. You simply make yourself available one deliverance minister when I was young cast out demons. He said, preach the Gospel when they come to you with demons, be 100% out at that time. And that's the advice that do you go to mental institutions and drive parks and drive out demons? Absolutely not. good news. It's not to drive our demons. Number preach the good news, and as people come and That's a different story. Now let's help this same. Being a deliverance minister, called looking for demons. You just go look for souls who have them will either manifest or they a situation. It's like, I got you, let me teaching that almost destroyed our deliverance this. If you do deliverance and you're not the blood, demons will fight you back. They and very mean. And some kind of a grandpa casualties on his family, has wrote a book, God, and I respect the man of God and all this stuff, start teaching our team. Guys, were young so we liked that word &quot;dangerous.&quot; is sending us like lambs among the wolves. us afterwards. When we will be least expecting, will have flat tires, our windows will be a teenager, you're like, yeah, sign me up. It's all fun and games when you're a teenager, you don't live in your own house. But we grew it's your own engine that dies after delivering want to be doing this dangerous stuff. Let's It got so bad at one time in our church, we two, three days before the conference. I mean cameras flipping on the highway, three, four leader, right before the service on the deliverance almost like a surgery on her. She couldn't happened. I mean stuff that was happening dangerous. We haven't even started but the Little did we know, that we actually caused you, personally helped us. We didn't stop a price that I was like I don't think we can causing us problems. I hear a preacher from He closed down his ministry of deliverance sick, all of them was constantly getting financial health crisis. He closed the ministry of deliverance from the Bible in Luke where Jesus says, I he says, this part of the verse changed his revelation for me. Jesus says, &quot;And nothing something happened to me. He says, when I realm I lost the shield of faith. So he says, before. It just he couldn't get through because by no means will hurt me. He says, what I was the experience of another deliverance And he says, somebody's experience became He says, and what I did is we prayed prayers He already promised is already ours, and He the team, and he says, I retrained the team lambs among the wolves. The wolves are not persecute us, throw us in jail and sign us deliver us from. He says we will experience lions and demons are lambs. When we attack, team, he says deliverance ministry started that shook me to the core. I went to the Bible. and Russian and to my surprise I found out &quot;Nothing by no means.&quot; This is what I told Jesus Christ gives us automatic protection and I win them, like for example yesterday go back to the hotel hoping not to battle think about it. When yesterday we prayed for healing. I don't plead the blood back at the at me. Don't even think about it. Why is it saying this gives us excuse to live a life is not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is there is retaliation is not scriptural. Unless you believe for it, pray for it and will be done to you. If you have a shield of faith, fire darts shield of faith? It's God's Word. It's God's me, all of my car. Jesus ensures me better. a conference I never get sick, never have on the road, I will have an accident. No matter happen to every human being but to expect, we no longer ask God for protection, we thank I believe deliverance is very safe. Deliverance, your jurisdiction. I believe, now will sometimes Yeah, that's why you gotta have a few ushers a person with mental illness. The demon typically and so they will come up and threaten and nothing really they can do. It still doesn't Or to walk around like you're the boss of illness on the other hand, if a person has take you out because the person with the mental control of their faculties and the name of the demons that are terrified of the name who you're also dealing with and not to go to be fearless, and when you do deliveries say, Lord, I thank you for the shield of faith. hurt me. I thank You, that greater is He that Lord, I thank You that the Spirit of Him who me. Lord, I thank You that when the enemy raise the standard against him. Lord, I thank Christ Jesus who loved me and gave Himself us and You said subdue, fill the earth and the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness you have given us that authority, You have in Jesus name, amen.