Henry: If you have polarized sunglasses, Grant: Each of these pieces of glass is what's when a photon of light reaches the glass, And whether or not it passes through is effectively in a given direction. Henry: Try this: Find yourself several sets Look through one set of sunglasses at some polarizing filter, between you and the light. As you rotate that second filter, the lamp It should look darkest when the second filter What you're observing is that the photons through a filter along one axis have a much filter along a perpendicular axis - in principle Grant: Here's where things get quantum-ly All these filters do is remove light - they But if you take a third filter, orient it put it between the two, the lamp will actually This is not the middle filter generating more actually lets more light through. With perfect filters, if you keep adding this trend continues - more light! Henry: This feels super weird. But it's not just weird that more light to exactly how much more comes through, the impossibly high. And when we tug at this thread, it leads to than this sunglasses demo that forces us to about the way the universe works - like, of the thing you're experimenting on, and than the speed of light. Grant: Where we're headed is Bell's theorem: in modern physics. To appreciate it, it's worth understanding states, like the polarization of a photon. We actually made a second video showing you can find on 3blue1brown, but for now let's First, photons are waves in a thing called just means the direction in which that wave Grant: Polarizing filters absorb this wiggling out the other side is wiggling purely in the absorption is happening. But unlike a water or sound wave, photons pass through a polarizer completely, or not like how we don't know whether or not Schrodinger's the box. Henry: For anyone uncomfortable with the nondeterminism that a probabilistic event like this might know yet. That there is some "hidden variable" tell us with certainty whether it should pass variable is just too subtle for us to probe devices. Or maybe it's somehow fundamentally unknowable, Henry: The possibility of such a hidden I mean, what measurements could possibly might not exist? And yet, we can do just that. Grant:...With sunglasses and polarization Grant: Let's lay down some numbers here. When light passes through a polarizing filter polarizing filter oriented the same way, experiments make it through the second filter. If that second filter is tilted 90 degrees chance of passing through. And at 45 degrees, there's a 50/50 chance. Henry: What's more, these probabilities two filters in question, and nothing else potentially having passed through a different Grant: But the real numerical weirdness happens For example, at 22.5 degrees, any photon which chance of passing through the second filter. To see where all these numbers come from, Henry: What's strange about that last number halfway between 50% and 100% since 22.5deg significantly higher. Henry: To see concretely how strange this of our three filters: A, oriented vertically, C, oriented 45 degrees from vertical. We're going to compare just how many photons many get blocked when B is there. When B is not there, half of those passing C makes the lamp look half as bright as it Henry: But once you insert B, like we said, B, which means 15% are blocked at B. And at C. But how on earth does blocking 15% twice Well, it doesn't, which is why the lamp it really makes you wonder how the universe which ones to block. Grant: In fact, these numbers suggest that variable determining each photon's state That is, if each one has some definite answers A", "Would it pass through B" and "Would are made. Grant: We'll do a proof by contradiction, hidden variable which, through whatever crazy their answers to these questions. And let's say all of these will definitely all 100 inside this circle representing photons Grant: To produce the results we see in experiments, a hidden variable determining that they pass in the intersection of A and B, leaving 15 photons that pass A but not B. Similarly, about 15% would get blocked by C, which is the A and B circles, but outside the C circle. So the actual number whose hidden variable not C is certainly no more than 15. Grant: But think of what Henry was just saying, B, never asking the photons what they think get blocked at C seems much too high. So look back at our Venn diagram, what does determining that it passes A but is blocked It means it's somewhere in this crescent C. Grant: Now, experiments show that a full 50 get blocked at C, but if we take into account that seems impossible. Either those photons would have passed through we talked about of passing both A and B but than 15 photons. Or they would have been blocked by B, which moon region representing those passing A and So the number passing A and getting blocked 15...but at the same time it's supposed How does that work? Grant: Remember, that number 50 is coming at B, and all we're doing is asking what B, assuming that it has some definite state and that gives this numerical contradiction. Grant: For comparison, think of any other, Like, take a hundred people, and ask them beard, and if they wear glasses. Well, obviously everyone likes minutephysics. Then among those, take the number that don't beard but not glasses. That should greater than or equal to the I mean, one is a superset of the other. But as absurdly reasonable as that is, some this inequality, which contradicts the premise right? Henry: Well...Unfortunately, there's a Drawing those Venn diagrams assumes that unchanging. But what if the act of passing through one with other filters? Then you could easily explain the results hidden variable theories are impossible; just to have the interaction of the particle with with other filters. Henry: We can, however, rig up an experiment other without faster than light communication, persists. The key is to make photons pass not through different points in space at the same time. And for this, you need entanglement. Henry: For this video, what we'll mean when if you were to pass each one of them through pass through, or both get blocked. That is, they behave the same way when measured And this correlated behavior persists no matter each other, even if there's no way for one Unless, somehow, it did so faster than the But that would be crazy. Grant: So now here's what you do for the Instead of sending one photon through multiple pairs of photons to two far away locations, choose one filter to put in the path of that Doing this many times, you'll collect a an entangled pair pass through the different Henry: But the thing is, you still see all When you use filter A at one site and filter through filter A, about 15% have an entangled if they're set to B and C, about 15% of partner that gets blocked by C. And with A get blocked at C. Grant: Again, if you think carefully about idea that there can be some hidden variable Here, draw the same Venn Diagram as before, have some definite answers to the questions pass through B" and "Would it pass through Grant: If, as Henry said, 15% of those that nudge these circles a bit so that only 15% B. Likewise, based on the data from entangled photons which pass through B would get blocked C needs to be sufficiently small. Grant: But that really limits the number of blocked by C. Why? Well the region representing photons passing the previous two. And yet, what quantum mechanics predicts, is that a full 50% of those measured to pass getting blocked at C. Grant: If you assume that all these circles unmeasured photon has no preference for one literally no way to accurately represent all this, so it's not looking good for hidden Henry: Again, for a hidden variable theory the photons are able to influence each other But now we have a much stronger result, this influence would have to be faster than Henry: The assumption that there is some deeper not being probed is called "realism". And the assumption that faster than light What this experiment shows is that either locality is not how the universe works, or Henry: Specifically, it's not that quantum the speed of light while actually being locally in this experiment show it CANNOT be locally Grant: What we've described here is one It's a simple counting relationship that definite answers, but which quantum states Grant: In fact, the mathematics of quantum should violate Bell inequalities in exactly John Bell originally put out the inequalities would violate them in 1964. Henry: Since then, numerous experiments have quite difficult to get all your entangled which can mean observed violations of this that might leave room for locality and realism The first loophole-free test happened only Grant: There have also been numerous theoretical Bell's and other similar results (that is, Henry: In the end, here's what I find crazy: upending what we know about how our universe come to know, and yet the math at its heart physical principles can be seen in action It's frankly surprising more people don't know about it