Well, Christmas is almost here again... already. The cold weather's kickin' in, the snowfall, the ice, it's gonna get below freezing, maybe even... sub-zero. Which reminds me. Ah, yes! Nintendo 64 end labels! When Nintendo drops the ball, the fans pick it up! Here it is: Mortal Kombat Mythologies: Sub-Zero. This is one Mortal Kombat game But how could that be? It was one of Yeah, in the nineties, Mortal Kombat Everybody was obsessed with it! When it came to fighting games, Street Fighter II and I'll never forget my first time seeing I distinctly remember catching a glimpse of it between I was impressed by the graphics, and shocked by the excessive It was one of the games to inspire the ratings system. When it came to home consoles, The Genesis version had a code to unlock the blood, while the Super Nintendo version left it out altogether. But starting with Mortal Kombat II, it was blood for all! How to do the finishing moves and how to unlock secret You could be the most geeky, but as soon as you'd show up passing around There was a mystique to these games. such as a swearing code and a nude code. One time somebody printed out a move list which they got It was like science fiction shit, but it turned out to be ... called the Internet. As I remember it, the mid-nineties which led up to Mortal Kombat Trilogy in '96. It combined everything you wanted With new generation game consoles like PlayStation and and that's what we all wanted: To be able And then in '97 came Mythologies: Sub-Zero. So why haven't I played this one before? Could it be that I was distracted by Mortal Kombat 4, Or was it because I heard that it was All these years I've been trying because anything Mortal Kombat It can't be that bad, right? Oh, w-w-w-w-wait, wait, wait-- what the-- what the fuck?! GAH!! Okay, you have to press B to turn around. In all the other Mortal Kombat games but here, every time you jump to the other side, This is like Karate Champ bullshit! I can understand why this might be necessary, because unlike other Mortal Kombat games here you're fighting multiple enemies, so if you find yourself in-between two Sometimes it turns automatically! Yeah, you never know! So after you jump, you'll hit the button, only Alright, well that ruins the whole game! Game sucks! Case closed! Should Or could the game get even worse? Obviously, you play as Sub-Zero. I suppose if the game caught on, they would starring all the different characters, and Well, I'm glad they didn't quit their day job. [Sub-Zero screams] The day job being real Mortal Kombat. There are some RPG elements: When you gain inventory and learn special moves, But being so familiar with the it comes off as more of a tease that Auugh! Now they're gonna start doin' that shit! Alright, wait for it... wait for it... Uurrgh! Now I'm on a ledge. W- what do I do here, jump? [Sub-Zero screams] Of course not. Oh, you just drop down and bounce off the awning. Yeah, okay. Your mother, your mother! Mngh! Oh god, there's too many guys! What?! More of these?! Okay... okay... easy does it... Unngh!! [mumbling] Oh, get the fuck outta my way-- A ha ha! Yeah, did you see that?! Fuuuuck!! Run run run run run run RUN--!! FRRGGHH!! Ooohhhh!! Okay, strategy: Run and stop. Nope! Naw, naw, naw! Can't run! Can't walk! Can't fucking do anything!! Nargh! Mrg! Mrrgh! Narggh! Argh! Nrgh! Uurrggh!! After you make it through by It's a one-on-one battle, and looks It LOOKS like it, but trust me, If only you knew, if only you were the one holding the Here, take it. Yeah, I know. You would if you could. But trust me. Don't. If I was jumpin' off a bridge, would you do it too? Nah. This is jumpin' off a bridge. And I'm not happy. Afterwards, you get a cutscene. This is where I should mention that It's very similar, but the most noteworthy the cutscenes are just still images and text, but with the PlayStation version, since it was a CD-based &quot;I am Scorpion. You killed me in cold blood!&quot; Um... Just stick to Mortal Kombat: Annihilation. Okay, what the hell am I supposed to do here? O- o- oohh! The fuck? Oh geez, I just outran the screen! Gotta give some credit for the 3D or 2,5D backgrounds. Another basic problem is that to jump, you press Up. In any typical Mortal Kombat game but in a platforming jumping game, Up is fucked up! Sometimes you intend to step back, but your thumb [Sub-Zero screams] The entire Level 2 is all about hopping these platforms. C'mon, you son of a bitch! Aw, fuck! Ugh! Get out of my way, I'm just trying to-- Oh, okay. That makes it easier. For many of these jumps, you have Or not. Okay, should I jump then? Ugh! Sometimes the wind comes right away, And then there's times when you And then there's times when... I don't even know! [Sub-Zero screams] [Nerd screams] [Sub-Zero screams] [Charlie Brown screams] [Sub-Zero screams] As if that's not bad enough, then you have You don't have much control over your jumps, it's always Once you're in the air, there's nothing else you can do. [Sub-Zero screams] Even when you DO land on the spoons, you sort of... magnetize to them. And I love how abruptly the Continue screen appears. Watch this. Wow. They didn't waste any time. Unlike Symphony of the Night, You'll be busy fighting, and then all of a sudden this But it doesn't matter anyway, because and even then, the game is impossible! Oh, come on!! That is low! And it's a real fair fight when Foreground obstructions! Real classy. Also, it's one of those yeah, you know, the kind that make How about down here? Nope, another dead end. Okay, what do I do now? What.. oh! Oh! OH! OH!! Grrgh!! [manic laughter] I hate this!! Wh-- where do I jump? Where do I ju-- I can't kick this gu-- I can't ju-- ! The jump kick never fails like this!! Aaahhh!! Fuuuck! Shiiit!! Fuuck!! [Sub-Zero screams] [GASP!] I didn't know there was a Transformer in the game! It's Blaster!! Aaah! Owww!! O-ho-ho!! FUUUCK!! No wonder I haven't played this one before! Hope you enjoyed that episode. I've something to tell you for fans of physical media who want to own the first 100 We now have Angry Video Game Nerd So you can see what we did there: we had This is the same stuff, just so you know, all these episodes were previously released the reason you would get this is if or B: if you wanna watch the first which would be about 19 hours, So, it's 100 episodes on one disc, about 19 hours, and in addition to that there's a second disc that comes These are the bonus material-- the that goes up to a hundred, it stops at episode 100. They're in standard definition because and the reason they're on a Blu-Ray Blu-Ray discs are a lot more but I think by cramming so many into 'em, So this would be if you wanna It's on Amazon.com right now, you can get the link And for those who don't own Blu-Ray players, there could still be AVGN Volume 9, and we are gonna put the newer episodes out, the ones So we have a lot of work to do, the focus lately which we just did, you could see there's been a lot So I hope you enjoyed all of them, what we had Happy Holidays, and Happy New Year!