Good morning. So you saw me and Anicia That's because, this wall on the left side was still in contact with the hill, so it was a lot softer with the rain I guess the sides here on because it didn't get the ground So I'm gonna scrape it off then put it on the big bucket again The dumper. So it's going to take And I only have two more dry days left, and then it's going to start raining, The water you see here is not rain. This is actually a spring And that is what we had been told when we, bought the property of the old barn, which was deteriorating, So that, was actually 100% right, this is 24 seven, for this water to go then, And that's why that corner is badly damaged, there is a lot of, groundwater or spring pushing. So it is already filling up with water, because it was always becoming So that's why the trench is here as well. This will be the place I'm going to put a drain here to the buildings. So we'll have two drains And we're going to slope it So any water will go into this drain or coming from the buildings. And if it's too much, next to the buildings So this is almost exactly how I want it. Just the depth is not there yet. Now, I just wanted this shallow trench. And when I make, the drain trench, All right. Done. Trench goes all that way Hup, all the way towards there. Bye bye mama. Bye bye. Odin. Bye bye. Odin You can do it, go on. Papa's gonna help. Yes! Push it Odin, Do it, do it, do it! Yes a little more. You know this already, right Odin? Wheee. Yeah, Wheee! That's that's, Oh papa! Yes, Odin? Ok Odin... Oh bugabubabooo. See, see, see. Oh yes a little book! Let's install the battery. Mr. Odin. Yeah. Good job, son. Oh! papa? Yeah? Bugaboo! Oh, you can put it in the box. This is the second battery that you can install. If you get the sweeper accessory. Because it needs power as well. Don't touch this. Now have to put this on Mister Odin. Da. Oh, okay. Okay. Done. This. If you get the sweeper attachment, it needs a counterweight. Brr brr burghr burghr burghr burghr Yeah. We've been, having a lot of rain lately. In between the little dry periods but it gets really slippery. On top where I'm digging it's but here on the dam behind me So yesterday I tried to flatten it But even my excavator is sinking, today Hopefully the sun dries it out I'm getting there slowly. So it's just this weather. It's again, it's it's To be honest, the only difference is compared to last. Last year, the yucca with the sweeper back. So just like a normal lawnmower, this one will take up your grass There are some differences If you take off. The sweeper attachment, which is easy. And you just buy then this one is a lot cheaper. So what are the main differences? this one if you look underneath, has one wheel in front in the back. This one is all wheel drive, This one has suspension, so it can go over a lot What else Well this one has a front It's the whole casing So don't worry. It's just a different system. on this one. You have two discs with four blades. On this one, two discs with three blades. this one. You can set your height And there two motors that will lower this one. You have to do it manually on top, But that's also a difference. They both have the vision module, they both use the app, they both use the RTK station. So in terms of technology, they almost have the same thing. Another thing that's new, for the RTK station. If you remember, I put it up on the wall so it has a free view of the sky, Very important. But the problem is sometimes because this needs power. So they came out with a solar panel So even if it's like, I think 14 days of bad weather, very nice, this addition. I have power over there, and I'm going to test it I can let you guys know. Here they The only extra thing where it can, discharge or anything. In video 50, you see me doing this It's easy with the app. You just create a map, What, you want the mower to mow. now I'm just going to set up a no go zone or it doesn't go too Create area. No go zone channel dumping spot pattern. So whatever you want. Easy. You click it. will tell you what to do. Start mapping the no-go zone. And then you manually drive around. You know what surprises me the most is, the Yuca is not a four wheel drive, but I just went around this just fine, so I don't expect much problems To be honest, obstacles that you will need a Luba 2 But if it's one piece and just grass. Without too many sharp objects where it has to go over, Start mapping a channel. what is different that this one cannot do. This one doesn't have the sweeper bag. That's only for the Yuka. So when fall is here leaves, for example, or you can just put the attachment By the way, Click on the cable and you tell it to go And just like a normal regular lawn mower, once it's full, there is a sensor inside. It will go to the place A motor will lift it Very simple. All right. The. Yuka. We're very happy with it. The way it handles our, field, Because this is not a yard. It's amazing. I thought it would be because it's not, 4x4, The only thing you need to be aware of, it's can only handle 18% slopes. And if you don't have then it can handle 45 degree slopes. That's a big difference. So that's the only thing you need to But for the rest, it's an awesome product. It cuts your grass. It picks up the grass and leaves It goes to the destination where it needs For some people, it's This combination, especially on flat Okay. Let's go. Okay. This will be my little corner for today. I'll give you a little explanation because I've seen some people This is a victron off grid on grid system, We have a inverter, for the solar power. So what does the solar do? You have the solar panels. Power comes in here, converts it to 48V and charges up the batteries, So they fit in here. Then we have a Multiplus 2. And what does this do? It takes the power 48V out of the battery Because we're in Europe to 220, 230V This one can do between 4 and 5kW. So. We need a second one to be able to come up our house. Most of the time it works. But if Anicia starts cooking and, then this one can get overloaded And that's the easy part. We have a grid, through this inverter and it adds the rest of the power So my opinion there is grid power here. So why wouldn't I use it? The nice thing about this system is because the power in the batteries and during the night So we don't take that much power So I'm going to power them down, disconnect them in the distribution board. And you immediately heard the Multiplus was a lot quieter It's not taking power So now it's just grid power. So it's receiving grid and it's just sending it through, This is a distributor: so this is where the batteries come in and where it takes the solar charger. Puts power into the batteries. And that's exactly what I need to do Because this one is full. It has four inputs So I'll put another one next to it So this is a Lynx from Victron And no we're not sponsored. I told you guys, I just like Victron. It's quality stuff. And especially if you use it I want it to just work and not be busy with it all the time. There we Okay. So. Battery connected. Plus the minus connected. The fuze is in. If there is anyone watching and seeing that I do something wrong, I'm not an electrician, so I never, never will claim to be one. So I must make mistakes. Please let me know. So I can rectify them before. I have a fire or something. Not bad, not bad. I'll do it like this. And then we'll connect. Minus plus. Minus plus and series. Okay, so I need. To shut off the power again. Because there is 48V on those cables So I think shut off power. Connect those two cables on the multiplex. Connect battery. Turn the system on and hope it doesn't go Sounds like an idea. So it seems to be working. Okay, I'm going to check the settings, so it is working on the Power Output 3000W of power. So that's pretty good. That's why you turn off the system! So you go on there without frying me. This is why. I love to be a plumber. I don't like electricity. the sparking just drives me nuts. When something sparks, I'm like, Up. We've got lights. Let's turn solar system. So the battery is showing 98.5. So this is this battery bank The other ones are off, so that's perfect. It is powering the house. All right, guys. You saw me installing these batteries into our system, but I made a mistake. These batteries have 16 cells inside and are current batteries inside they have a slight voltage difference So I can't do them both together Solution. Take these out of the system, bank out of them. I needed something, Oh, The tire is busted. Well, it has an inner tire. And I think the inner value is, Yeah. Punctured. Because I don't have a jacket. I'm going to buy one. It's stupid that I don't have one. I'm gonna fill the tire up, drive as fast as I can down to Claude. Take it off. Take the tire off. See what we can do with the inner tube. And, if not, I'm going to buy a new inner the other day or we can't fix it and the dumper was loaded, So the nail, there was a nail in it. You could still see So there's no point And also it is too big. And how can you see that? Claude showed me, The inner tire has, these, folds in it. That means it's too big. And if we held it next to it, So it's not going to be bad All right, Claude to the rescue. The tire is fixed. We put a new innertube in. And we straighten the rim a little bit. Because it's an old machine that has been And what I also need to do, its fill up the brake fluid. I ordered a new, master brake cylinder, but until then, I have to refill it The trench that I dug It's collecting most of the water, and I haven't had to But you can see a lot of, puddles, and it's, quite slippery. It's a little bit dry today. I'm just going to give it a go and see how I made little trenches on the dam So it's not that slippery I'm just going to give it a go, keep on working. There is something about unpacking a new tool Last time we got to know emotions. Luba. Two or more that took And today, emotion is sponsoring us The Yucca a lawn sweeping mower sweep, and empty its contents It's always a win when technology handles for the things that bring us joy All right. Do you? I'm happy with it. It does the job very well. You have no aptitude back. You can choose wherever you want to do it. The only thing to take account is, If you get the sweeper attachment, it can go, less steep. So that's something Because of the weight distribution. And it's too steep. And then the front wheel will lift up stuck. So for the rest, I can't fault it, without the sweeper attachment. It does pretty much the same And with the sweeper attachment, If there's a little hill and it wants to go up vertically, But, that's what they tell you. And the manual is, that's the steepness. With or without So use the right tool for the job.