Transcriber: Leena Kariapper Today is about collaboration, and I'm going to talk to you is the most important That is the collaboration When you can collaborate with your mind you'll get what you want. Now, I'm very lucky that I've been voted I'm in the Tatler Guide People say to me, &quot;You know, the brain, that's really complex and complicated, Actually, that's not true. What I believe is you need to know If you put these four things you'll have success So let me tell you what Your mind does exactly, specifically It always does what it thinks If you haven't got what you want, you are not collaborating I'm going to change that for you. Secondly, your mind is hardwired to move you towards pleasure That's why the interest you survive on the planet Thirdly, the way you feel is only down to two things: the pictures you make in your head, Fourthly, your mind It is programmed to keep going If you want to succeed at any level, you have got to make and what is unfamiliar familiar. So let's start with one. Your mind does what it really thinks It's always acting in your own interests, and your mind listens It works out what you're doing So if you say: these exams are killing me, my boss is a nightmare, I'm overwhelmed, when you say, &quot;I'm dying under the pressure; you are telling your mind and if your mind thinks it will encourage you to procrastinate, Your mind is so very, very specific &quot;I'd love a week off in bed, I just wish I could have a week off Your mind goes, &quot;There you go, Didn't you ask for that? You said you wanted a week off in bed, There's your week off. If you say, &quot;I'm dreading having I'd do anything to get out of it.&quot; Your mind's like, &quot;OK, why don't I wake you up There's your That sounds a little silly, It does what it thinks you want. If you haven't got what you want, this is too hard; it's too difficult; When I wrote my first book, When I got a book deal, I kind of knew that involved and I didn't want to do it. I spent a long time procrastinating I want to write; I've chosen to write; and those words: I have chosen to do this; will change your life. This is way more than positive thinking. It is collaborating with your mind. So, look at your behavior, you're not communicating I learned this when I worked I was doing a television show I was watching them little miner lights on their head. It was raining sideways, muddy, And of course, when you sing OK, it's pouring with rain, you're running up a hill and you're singing ... Oh, I get it! You like this. Imagine if you were to run a marathon, OK, 24 miles to go. I hate this. You're not going to finish it. You have to go, I love it, I love it, even when it isn't true. So that is how you You must tell it, using very specific, what you want. When you are doing it, you say, I want this, I like this, and you must link pleasure Your mind will always move you If you eat something and you can never eat that again You are hardwired to avoid pain. But if you link pain to studying, somehow getting attention, You can choose every day You are the only person that can do that. You can't put a cat in a Jacuzzi They don't like water, but you can choose. I have some clients and some who link pain to pleasure. I learned this when I worked Not just street drug addicts, people right at the top of their game - Hollywood actors, movie stars, models to sticking a needle in their body and to them that pain was pleasure. I have other clients who received &quot;I won't go because I think So they link pain to pleasure. A couple of years ago, I broke my arm, and when they took And went, &quot;Oh,&quot; and I said, They said, &quot;We can't You can have some physio, And I'm like, &quot;No, no, I can't do the downward dog I can't do the warrior I must have my arm straight.&quot; They said, &quot;Well, we can break it and it might make it worse.&quot; I don't do no. I want a straight arm, and I said, &quot;Can you straighten my arm?&quot; He said, &quot;Oh yes, and it'll take a lot of commitment, I've got to break So I knew it was going to hurt, but I know how to So I went along, and kept saying to my brain, I've chosen to have a straight arm. I was singing this song let's do it, let's do it, When he started to pull my arm, and of course, when someone's hurting you I couldn't do that, I had to pull forward. But I'm always singing this song, I got my arm completely straight. At the end, he said, &quot;I don't know how you did that, I said, &quot;No. I told my brain I wanted it.&quot; That's what I did. I linked pain to not getting it That's very important. If ever you've had to read in class, and you got the word wrong you think, &quot;Right, that's it. I'm never going to be the focus Of course, you forget. Ten years later, or give a presentation, and you'll have a panic attack because your mind's like, &quot;Oh, no ... Speaking in public is pain, You have got to change that. You have got to tell your mind and you've got to link pleasure, not pain, The third thing about the brain The pictures you make in your head That's all there is. So if you were on a flight going to LA sitting right next to him and your pictures are: going to LA, great beaches, great people, you're having one experience. But if you're saying, that guy looks very suspicious; I think he is a terrorist, You're having a totally different the pictures you make in your head When you collaborate with your brain, and you must change those words. So I worked with a footballer he was playing for not any division team, and he went straight He wasn't very tall. He said, &quot;You know, And I said, &quot;OK, so imagine Do you think Maradona 'I don't feel tall enough.' Do you think Michael Owen does that?&quot; You have to change your thinking because the pictures you make in your head will change everything; So let me show you. I want you to imagine, in your hand, you're holding a big fat lemon. Close your eyes. I want you to imagine, you can squeeze it, You can inhale and you So now, open your mouth Bite this lemon in half and start to chew it. You will find immediately, you are pumping out You can open your eyes But you see, two things: the picture you made the words you made You weren't eating a lemon. Your body doesn't care if what you tell it is right or wrong, good or bad, you respond only Let's do another one. Just stand up. I want everyone - in fact, I want everyone to put their left arm All I want you to do is swing your arm Just take it to its maximum. Just notice where it is. Bring it back, bring it back, and I want you to tell your left arm It's going to go a third further. So, see your arm going a third further. Don't move it yet. Tell your arm that it will See all those muscles Tell your arm to go a third further. Open your eyes. Point your left arm. As you do it again, because you saw it, (Chattering) You can practice this at home, but you really need to get these things, You see the right things, When I was working they did not get on at all, So I told them to imagine all working on the same brainwave - they move in the shape of a big animal, and that really worked for them. So the fourth thing about your mind is that it loves what is familiar If what is familiar is procrastinating, messing about, feeling uncomfortable in public, you have got to make and you have to make working hard, believing in yourself, It's a really English thing I'm the best, I'm the greatest, I'm really good at what I do, And of course, that's because we But I just showed you that when you believe you actually start to make that happen. So, Arnold Schwarzenegger said, &quot;Modesty is not a word and I hope it never ever does.&quot; And I love that. Muhammad Ali said, &quot;It's people's fear that stops them I told myself I was the greatest I believed in myself, and guess what? So, what a concept! He told himself he was the best He didn't just go, He trained, he worked out, He believed he was the best. I've worked with those top CEOs, top actors, They all have to tell themselves Because what is the opposite of that? &quot;Oh, I'm just average, I'm not really good enough, it requires too much commitment.&quot; I just showed you whatever So tell it better things. First, you make your beliefs and if you believe in yourself, When you stretch your mind it never ever, ever, ever goes back, because your potential You can't even know So when Roger Bannister wanted and no one had done that - he told himself, &quot;I want to do that. He linked massive pleasure to do that. He saw, constantly, his body and he made it familiar because he did run a mile and that same year, the following year, So he made what was unfamiliar, familiar. When Mark Spitz won seven before most of you That was amazing that he did that. Now, his speeds aren't even that special. Because your potential So if you want to have the most fantastic you got to remember these four things: tell your mind what you want; link massive pleasure to going there so you can motivate your mind, change the pictures, change the words; and make the familiar, unfamiliar When I wrote my first book, and they said, &quot;We love this book I want you to write ten chapters Can you do that?&quot; I couldn't. I could come up I have the choice to go, &quot;No, sorry, I can't do that, or to go, &quot;Yes, of course, So I said, &quot;Yes, of course, Ten? Yes, that's fine, no problem; and I had faith, that's all I had, absolute faith that my brain In fact, I was driving along two of them came to into my head; By the time I sent that book back, because my brain because I programmed it the right way, I told it to go ahead So I could talk to you a lot, but it's not really It's how much you take this on board. If it's familiar to go to lectures, and then do something else: You have everything to gain Tell your mind exactly what you want. Use really detailed, descriptive, It's not positive thinking. It's rewiring your brain for success, not just in business, but in everything, Link massive, huge, enormous and pain to staying the same. Change the pictures, change the words. When you have a brilliant brain, you have two choices: rationalize why you feel so bad &quot;I can't cope with these exams, Or change that to, &quot;This is temporary, I can do this, and make the familiar, unfamiliar. Most important, make self-belief so normal to you Thank you for listening. (Applause)