(gagging) - Yeah, my tongue looks messed up. This smells like a fart! (sniffs) (chuckles) (gagging) - I love chocolate. (thudding) poop (giggling and moaning) alOl There are dead ants in it. Eww (beep) What's up, it's Collins Key. Now, today I need some 'cause we're going to be doing so, let's give this a shot. (group cheers) OW! - Oh man! Oh, that hurt! I'm not used to a wall being My yeet is just so powerful. (roars) (beep) The wall stopped me. But today, guys, we are doing with a sour twist. Yeah, this is Baff, B-A-F-F, I don't know why. And right now, we've got a challenge for-- - [Group] YOU! We wanna see if you can subscribe and turn on the channel post All of you got five seconds Here we go. - [Group] Five, four, three, two, one. Done! If you can do that, comment down below Keyper Squad right now, make sure you guys go follow all of us on Instagram, show my friends some love over here, also my brother, just, yeah, show love to everyone. Yeeet, no, I'm joking. Alright, let's get into For this challenge, we have eight ping-pong balls that are being submerged in the Gelli Baff and then mixed all around. Five of them are yellow. If you pick a yellow ping-pong ball, (buzzer) you have to eat a piece of sour candy. Two of them are pink. If you pick one of those, you get to eat a sweet piece of candy. And there's one final If you pick the purple one, you get the Bag of Mystery Dun dun dun - We don't know what's going to be inside the bag of mystery, It could be really good, So right now, let's jump into this and let's submerge all into the Jello. Or Gelli? (laughing) - What is this void? In the Oobleck, or in the substance! Haha! Alright guys, here we go.. Round number one. Everyone raise your right hand. On the count of three, we're just going to stick it in the stuff and try to find a ball and Three! - [Male] Three, what? - No, I got one, I got one! - [Group] I got one, I got one! - [Collins] So everyone's got one. On three we're just going to pull it out. - [Group] No! - Yes! - Alright, so we all got sour candies, and somehow Christian - Yeah! - Not cool. Alright guys, so Christian gets to eat a delicious chocolate We have to eat toxic waste. So I think we're going Alright, here we go. Three, two, this is not good, one, go! (chewing) (gagging) - Ah, oh my God! (retching) - I love chocolate. - My mouth is on fire. - My eyes are actually watering, guys. There we go, that is Round Number One. Oh, that's intense. One more thing I wanted to my eyes are actually watering. At the end of this, we are doing a lighting round. There's going to be three After each round, we're going to use whatever sour ingredient was used to the bucket of doom, so (ominous music) Whoever picks the red one has Right now we're on to Round Number Two. (bell dings) I want a sweet one. I want a sweet one so bad. Alright guys, raise your hand, and begin! - I want it! (group shouting) Tell me when everyone has one Guys, ya ready? Okay, I got one. - [Group] I got one. - Three, two, one, go! - Oh, I got it again, yeah! - [Group] No! - Okay, but that's not - Well I guess we're going to find out, now we open the Bag of Mystery. So first of all, we both got sour, Devin got sweet, and you got mystery. So I guess we're going Here we go! - Devin, what did you - I got some chocolate mixed with some salt and potato chips. - We have to eat sour farts. - Yay. (laughs) Then Christian is going to be waiting, he doesn't know what he to be anticipation and build up. So right now we're going to open these up, and then we're going to go for it, and then we have to see what Christian got in his Bag of Mystery. (plastic crinkling) - This is like a Willy - That looks delicious - It's got the gold on there, ooh. - Oh my God, this smells like a fart. (sniffs) (laughs) - Here we go, three, cheers. - Cheers? - No! Two, one, go. - [Christian] You gotta see this. - Mm-hmm. (groans) (laughs) - This is so good. (whimpering) - Open your tongue. - Ew! - Yeah, my tongue looks It's messed up. Alright here we go, now it's time for The Bag of Mystery, Christian gets to find out what you got. Could be good, could be bad. (bag crinkles) - [Collins] What is it? (suspenseful music) - Oh! - What? - Oh my gosh! - Why? How many do I have to eat? - Dude, we took a handful! Put all of them in your mouth! - I mean I took like at - Christian, pretend It's crunchy. (gunshot) - No, there's legs sticking out. - It just gives it texture, it's like a fun little You never know what's Alright here we go, three, two, one, go! - Oh the noise! - It tastes like things (group laughs) - Yo y'all better give this fact that Christian just - It tastes like wet dog! - You had the leg on your lip. - Ooh. Bro, I'm going to be sick. Alright guys, Christian you're a trooper, we're moving on right now (bell rings) - I have one goal, and that - Same. - So here we go. Three, two, one, go! - Oh, it shot in my eye! - You splashed it everywhere. - Bro! - I can't even find one! - No! - No! - Yeah! - No! - I can't even find one, I literally can't find one, I can't find it! (laughs) - No, no, no, you got it? - Yes! - No! I got the sour one! - I got another mystery! (laughs) - Oh, oh, guys I tweaked my shoulder! Ava got her first sweet piece of candy! What did you get? - Marshmallow chocolate, something. - That's how observant she is. (laughs) which I think I know Christian got the Mystery Bag, you get to open it up first Christian. (plastic crinkling) - A paper! What does it say? - God card, you get to - What? - OK, so Ava and Collins - Why me? - Bro, I'm your sister. - Oh my God! - You get the chocolate. (hands clap) - You're my sister and I don't like you. - Fam, I am so sorry. - What have you done Christian? This is not cool bro. Alright here we go. Three, two, one. Ooh! - These are really good. (choking) - That doesn't taste like - Oh my god! - Bro, Christian, If I ever get that one card, I have yet to get a sweet one fam. (ominous music) - Alright guys, here we go, I (bell rings) - [Collins] I gotta find the sweet one. - I can't even find another one. - No! - Yes! - Here we go, here we go! I don't know what it is. (group laughs) Christian, what do you have? - I got a gummy pizza, a gummy - Sounds terrible, let's go. Three, two, one. (yodeling) (thudding) (laughs) - This is a no, this is a no! Uh, ingredient number one. Death! Death! Death! (ominous music) - I don't know what I'm doing wrong, but I'm doing something wrong. Go! - [Collins] No, come on, - No! - I got another one! - No! - Yes, woohoo! How did you get another purple one? - I don't even know? I like purple. - I could not be more enthused right now, I have got chocolate. That's a word right? (laughs) - Yeah. - Alright cool, this has I love orange, and I love chocolate. And I am excited. What did you get Devin? - I got Warheads Sour Pucker Packs. - Yay. - Yeah and we literally had - And then Christian, again, I don't know how it happened, So let's find out what's inside. (ominous music) - Ooh! - There are dead ants in it. - Wait, wait, wait, let me see this bro! There's no way. Oh my god! - Those are big. - Look at the ingredients, syrup and black ants. (laughs) - Natural and artificially flavored. - I got terrible so I'm really excited. - I think there's so many bugs. - Cheers! - Alright here we go, three, two, one. (coughing) - It's in the back of my throat. - [Ava] Ooh, it burns! - You know what, I'm enjoying this! (laughs) (bell dings) - [Devin] I got one, I got - Three, two, one. - No! - No! - Why? - I got sour. - How did he get sweet again? - You got wild card, though. You better hope it's a good one. This is a brand new, have never tried in a video. It's called Warheads and the ingredients are literally acid. Like malic acid, just a lot of acid. - I got chocolate, and wait, oh what? - What is that? - Like little coins. (bell dings) - Ah! - They will cut you. - Keep enjoying that. Ava, what did you get? (ominous music) - Oh, oh my god! So guys, this is the for those of you guys who don't know half of the beans are delicious and half of them are horrible. So we are going to take we're not playing around We're only playing around which is either skunk or black licorice. - Ooh no! - Here we go! - Not excited. Three, two, one, go for it! - [Christian] Oh my god, you (hand slaps on table) (screaming) - No! Oh, nah, it's getting worse! - Aah! - Yo, Christian do you want some? - No! - You've had no sour candies Give it a shot. - Oh c'mon. - Dude, a lot, a lot. - Oh my God! (coughing) - Ah, oh my God! (beep) - Alright, Christian is back now and Ava it's time for you to a good Bean Boozled or a bad (hands beating on table) - What? (clapping) - I'm happy for her. She's gotten all bad So right now, on to the next round. (bell ringing) (ominous music) - Everyone hands up, and go! - [Collins] Alright - Yeah I've got one. - Alright here we go, three, two, one, go! - No! - Really? - I don't know, this could be good and this could not be good. - I literally got sour ones every time. - Christian finally - Yes, yes! - So apparently we have to do Cry Babies, and these things are absolutely the worst. - Hopefully in The Bag of (bag rustling) Let's see here, it's a paper! (laughs) (breathing heavily) - He's recovering. - No! - What? - Ooh! Haha! - I have to eat everyone's sour candy! - That's like the whole box of this. (screaming) (sad piano music) - Fam, pray for me. Alright, all of 'em? Alright here we go. - Oh my god! - I can confirm that is all of them. - Whoa, ooh, ahh! (laughing) - You missed one. (yelling) - What? He's tearing up the box. - Oh God, ahh! - I love this challenge! (ominous music) - This is the final How this works, there one pink one. If you get that pink of the sour candy that we If you get a yellow one, you're safe. Here we go guys, three, two, one, go! This is the round. I got one, I'm holding Three, two, one, open! - Yes! (yelling) - Oh, the goal is not to get the pink one! - This is the perfect all the best stuff this entire game. So you now have to eat If you guys want a giant bath let me know by liking this video. And now, the moment you've I must say, this is We got no sour candy, and Here you go, it's full of stuff. You gotta do it bro, here we go. Three, two, one, go! (yelling) - Eww, I think it touched me! - Ah, it got on my leg.