A Nissan Skyline R34 GTR sold 3 months ago In 2013, you could get the same car for $50,000. So how did a niche Japanese sports car that MSRP to 7x over MSRP in less than a decade? All while being illegal to even own in the Let's talk about that. The GTR story starts in the 1960s. A small Japanese carmaker by the name of Prince the Japanese market. Their most famous models, a luxo-cruiser called the Skyline. Prince loved to race cars, so the Skyline And while it wasn't the fastest car on track, a little nervous at the Japanese Grand Prix. In 1966, Nissan, one of the dominant players to keep up with the local automotive juggernaut And so, in an effort to gain manufacturing a merger deal with Prince Motor Company, and Prince dealerships. This was a rocky transition at first, but Market share began to grow, and to keep a phasing out the Prince name in favor of just In 1969, Nissan decided to take the Prince gave consumers a taste of the Skylines racing What they came out with was the PGC10 Nissan This was a 4 door Skyline with a 2.0-liter Advertised alongside the Nissan R380 racecar, public were impressed by the motorsports derived But, a 4 door sedan? Uh-uh, this sort of performance needed to So in 1971, Nissan gave the world the KPGC10 A meaner, smaller, version of the same racy This generation Skyline actually became known was nicknamed the Hakosuka. With Hako in Japanese meaning Box, and Suka pronunciation of Skyline. With the success of the Hakosuka, Nissan was 1973 they released the KPGC110 Skyline GTR. This Skyline was an evolution of the previous brakes, but otherwise powered by the same It became known as the Kenmeri thanks to a couple named Ken and Mary traveling through Skyline. The Skyline was slowly becoming a real part was a clear indicator to the world that Nissan's And then after not even 1 year on the market, Well, I say Nissan, but it wasn't them, The 1970s Oil Crisis was a massive blow to wasn't spared. After making only 197 KPGC110 Skyline GTRs, name. Nissan continued to make the Skyline as a with the C210 Skyline. And after that, through the 1980s, Nissan which got some souped up versions with the These cars did alright on the track as well, motorsports of choice in the 80s. But the magic just wasn't there, and Nissan missing that special motorsports heritage away in 1973. So in 1989, Nissan brought the GTR back. The in 1989 and was designed by Chief Engineer A Racing. Their target? The Porsche 959. To pull off this feat they needed serious came equipped with the now-famous RB26-DETT. A 2.6L Twin Turbo Inline 6 making "276hp" but also the front wheels, through a high E-TS. It also had 4-wheel steering through Nissan's with ATTESA to give the GTR grip in nearly Nissan also homologated specific Group A tweaks Nismo. Nismo was an abbreviation of Nissan Motorsports, was definitely all about motorsports. It was about 70lbs lighter thanks to an ABS tires. All to make it more competitive in Group A. Every piece of tech in this car was developed The R32 dominated Japanese touring car racing one of the 29 debut races it entered, and in 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993. It was such a monster on the racetrack that fire-breathing monster. Godzilla. I should mention though, that despite the getting, Godzilla was exclusive to Japan. Nissan felt as though they didn't need to lineup, and so, the people of the west could and see it dominate in Touring car racing. In 1991 Nissan released the Skyline GTR N1, time for Group N racing in Japan. The N1 had an upgraded motor, radio and AC the weight as low as possible. You might be noticing a trend here. Nissan was not shy about making special, limited up just a few hundred of total production. And this limited edition trend is important But more on that later. In 1993, Nissan once again brought us a special This one was called the Victory Spec, or V-Spec utter dominance in both Group A and Group The V-Spec retuned the ATTESA All-wheel-drive Nissan made 1400 of them. And then in 1994, yep you guessed it, Nissan This really just had wider tires compared II badge. And They made just 1300 of these. So in the span of five years, Nissan made a V-Spec II. 5 different versions of the GTR, which was Funny enough, Nissan was already selling the when the V-Spec II R32 was released. But the GTR was so sought after that they 1994. In 1995, though, Nissan brought the GTR fully This had basically the same drivetrain as in every measure, including a 200lb increase Instead of a standard GTR and Nismo GTR, like as either a standard GTR or a V-Spec. The V-spec had different suspension, and an featured an Active LSD, something very uncommon It was a little heavier than the standard being 2 seconds faster around the Nurburgring And 23 seconds faster than the R32 GTR. Nissan also joined GT1 class racing, and so requirement. So for that year, Nissan made one, just one, This car lives on display in Nissan's headquarters, car, but, the next year, in 1996 Nissan decided celebrating Nissan's entry at the 24 hours Another special edition, but this one was R33. Not quite a legitimate motorsports monster So the very next year, Nissan created the It had a bored and stroked 2.8L RB26, called bigger turbos making 400 horsepower. This was by every definition a motorsports It had a widebody kit, carbon hood and wing, It was Nissan's most extreme production 100 of them, by the end of R33 production So then, another generation of Skyline capped special editions. You can see why so many years on, there are thanks to their motorsports DNA and extreme But, as the title suggests, the Skyline GTR unattainable, hadn't even been made yet. In 1998, while Nissan was bringing us the selling the next gen, base-model, R34 Skyline. It debuted with the RB20 and RB25 NEO, a revised more fuel efficient and better for the planet. But let's be honest, nobody cared about And so in 1999, Nissan released the fire-breathing Of course it still had the ATESSA ETS all a 6-speed manual transmission from Getrag. The chassis was significantly upgraded as shrunk down from the R33, despite weighing And at launch, like the R33 before it, you Which came with the previous ATTESA ETS Pro including a carbon fibre rear diffuser. There was also a V-Spec N1, which was another of which Nissan made only 38. All these upgrades on the R34 GTR could be Car Championship, where the famous Pennzoil and subsequently became an icon in the Gran In 2000, Nissan replaced the V-Spec with the larger rear brakes, and a carbon fiber hood. And In 2001, Nissan released an entirely new The M-Spec. The M-Spec, or Mizuno Spec, named after Kazutoshi softer edge version of the hardcore V-Spec It had electronic dampers, a full leather In 2002, the final year of the R34, Nissan The V-Spec-II Nur and M-Spec Nur. These Nur versions, named after the famous engine and bigger turbos, along with various They were created to celebrate the Skyline's fastest skyline yet around the Green Hell, time. Just 1003 Nurs were made. And so that was it, 3 years and numerous special of the line. Despite the apparent success of the GTR name, with Renault meant that cars like the Skyline The newly appointed CEO, Carlos Ghosn, was one of the biggest moves of that plan was So the R34 Skyline was replaced by the V35 350Z platform, and exported to worldwide markets The motorsports bred GTR brand was retired dead. But the NISMO team still had some strength And with the R34s dying breath, they produced The Z-Tune. The Z-Tune concept was initially shown in the R34 was discontinued, that NISMO was given But there was a problem, Nissan didn't make to make a special edition version of it? Well, they decided to do what any of us would NISMO bought 18 used GTR V-Specs, all with them down to be rebuilt from the ground up. They gave it a special 2.8l stroker RB called RB26 Z1, which put out 500hp. The chassis were seam welded and reinforced Then sprayed in a special Z-Tune Silver, and One customer however, managed to convince Purple III, one of the GTRs iconic special run. Needless to say, these cars were truly special, were already special. A fitting send-off to the GTR name that spent of racing teams from both the east and the By this point in time in the mid 2000s the the planet. It was the Japanese supercar that the world Very seldom was a GTR exported to the west, of the R34 V-Spec to the UK, along with a Us Americans especially would look on in awe that were creating these world-dominating And then in 2003, Universal Studios decided in 2 Fast 2 Furious, and give the Skyline scene. The most frustrating part? There was just no way that we could get our The US has a strict 25 year import ban on And the few loopholes that did exist were MotorEx scandal, that put the Skyline squarely Nanahoshi and his merry band of miscreants. The only real legal way to get your hands 25th birthday and import one from abroad. Fast forward to 2007, and Nissan showed the Now separated from the Skyline name, the GTR technically not a Skyline at all. The Skyline name still belonged to the V35 a GTR. And while technically, the new GTRs PM platform isn't a Skyline according to Nissan. All this meant that the Nissan Skyline R34 And that was especially true when you considered The R34 GTR wasn't a cheap car when new, a base model and over 80 thousand for an M-Spec Depreciation on the R34 was fairly standard came out, average base model R34 GTRs were or about 40-50 thousand USD at the time. The most expensive sales were about 6-8 million Nurs and M-Spec Nurs. And over the next 5-6 years, that's about But in late 2015, things started to get a First a V-Spec II Nur sold for 9 million yen, Now with the fluctuating Yen to USD exchange US dollars, so not too outlandish. Especially for just 2 cars. But by 2016, it wasn't just 2 cars, Nur's And in the summer of 2016, one V-Spec II Nur up, until it reached the mind-boggling price That was 160,000 US Dollars. At this point the Skyline market was officially GTR saw at least a 30-50% price bump over Skylines leading the way. And considering how many special Skylines wonder if it was Nissan's intention from rarity. By 2017, another V-Spec II Nur broke the record US Dollars. And the average skyline price up to about were at in 2010. 2018 saw most of the limited edition models exception. A white V-Spec II Nur with 10 miles, yes TEN That was about 317 thousand US dollars. And as much as people said it was a freak added gasoline to the fire. - were generally fetching close to 20 million. At this point, the speculation for the price One, the 90s Japanese sports car market as As you may have seen in my Toyota Supra price massive wave on which the collectibility of rate. Two, though, was unique to the Skyline. Because of its illegality in the US, American had no way of owning them. But with the 25 year mark looming closeby, Japanese market GTRs in preparation for the And because of that, the price of the average and more cars that were hidden away in Japan and stored by importers and collectors. By the time 2020 rolled around, most GTRs And if you thought that was expensive, well, with prices going up by another 50%! Over 11 million yen is what the average GTR In 2015, that was M-Spec Nur money, but now going to cost you a lot more. In September 2020 an M-Spec Nur with 23,000 or 275,000 US. In October, another M-Spec Nur, this time or a little over 300,000 US dollars. Nearly tying that insane 10 mile V-Spec II And then, just two months later, in December, standing record for the R34 Skyline, when That's $359,000 dollars. So, in just 10 years, the price of the M-Spec yen. Representing a 740% increase. And you know what the craziest part is? It isn't even the rarest R34. The Z-Tune GTRs, the hand-built 18 examples are still out there, waiting for the day they came before them. So now, in 2021, with the US 25 year mark will continue to show its dominance as the And as prices climb, the dream of owning one further and further into the distance. Thank you guys for watching. Hit like if you liked the video, and subscribe these! We've got these awesome Supra shirts available I'll see you guys next time.