Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. The loudest clap decibels. And the world record for 802 claps per minute. is the most common human body noise others are meant to hear It's a great built-in percussion instrument. But clapping has also become a groups to express admiration, approval. on stage. So here I am on stage. things, why do humans clap? When applauding, a person creates claps second. Kinetic energy from the hands is mainly within the 2200 to 2800 hertz range, the frequencies clap on, clap off devices detect. clap. of frequencies, most of which are not which is why a clap can't make a musical note. definite pitch the way a clarinet or piano or the human voice can. If vocalisations can be so finely controlled, why clap? messy noise. and physiological level the impulse to clap may have originated as a reaction to an overflowing of enthusiasm, an immediate and primitive reaction to excitement. &quot;If the distinctive sound of the human is the sound of language, then sound produced always has the taint of the gratuitous, the excessive, or the proscribed. Clapping is the benign superflux of the body, of sound.&quot; of feeling. or thought. but if clapping is so natural and involuntary to the individual, etiquette? An expected behavior you even if you don't want to. modern clapping patting a performer on the back from a distance. high fiving yourself for something someone else has done. besides yourself and the performance applause. The Crowd. A study published in the an individual's contribution to applause actual opinion as to the quality of the the behavior of the collective group, the anonymous. also makes sense, when you consider equalizer. Studies have shown that, as betray a lot about the people who make them, whether the clap they hear nor can they guess the size on the sound of their clap. may have become the standard nonverbal arguably the loudest, the easiest Performers can't here a thumbs-up or a wink. and clapping is less disruptive than stomping feet or waving around big objects. historically, authorities have encouraged clapping. Cleisthenes came to power in Ancient and made behaviors like clapping a civic duty, the proper way for the masses to express admiration for their leader. everyone to meet and greet his or her leader, but they could all greet their leader together, as one super organism with one voice - applause. the desire to code appropriate group reactions and encourage them by example was quite official. Agencies offered claques for hire, professional applauders, who would memorize operas, attend them, like normal opera goers, and clap, cry or laugh at appropriate times, so that the actual audience would know when to properly do what. six months after being born human babies can work together. but parenting books have to advise parents to teach their children to connect clapping with group happiness and celebration. not being inevitable. applause signs reinforce audience authority are requesting it. it is a natural reaction historically has been, socially imposed. So, what's the future of applauds? I hung out with the guys from Grand Illusions, really fascinating channel. How many times have you listened Probably quite a few, right? don't like plenty of times. as a 150 year ago, people only heard their favorite symphony maybe two or three times in their entire life. or pick up an instrument or sing. way. MP3 players and phones and tablets and allow us to be an audience of one. An audience all by ourselves, and draw a crown. Faith Popcorn gave this broader phenomenon a name: cocooning. cell phones, alarm systems, self-checkout, filters for our personal air and water are all paraphernalia of cocooning. A tendency toward more lonely, 30 years. I talk about how cocooning might be making friendship, meeting new people a veining experience. But applause is safe, right? people, it's about becoming them. Becoming a super organism unindividuated roar. big parts of our lives. is that more entertainment is more available than ever before. movies, games and music, this new entertainment is increasingly consumed like books. alone. in a cocoon, but to be sure, like and share and favorite and retweet. Those actions might be a sort of ersatz applause. lost in the crowd, And online, so are your likes and favorites. They join a collective gesture as a sort of digital applause. A pessimist might feel hollow, lonely, a sad replacement for actual social experiences. Because a like is not necessarily lonely. lost in the crowd, it's a clap that joins the crowd, but is also traceable directly back to you. Maybe cocooning, maybe the rise of applause substitutes, like digital applause, is something to be worried about, or maybe it's the applause-worthy things just a few clicks away. We can't applaud all of them, reactions, which, incidentally, are more personal, instead of being pathetic clicks from an increasingly isolated, cocooned population. Digital applause might be like something and having more of them. Butterflies. And as always, thanks for watching.