Forget about Twitter, Instagram and Facebook Linkedin is the biggest business to business So if you want to be there and you want to that you have a good Linkedin profile. In order to have a good profile we want to First thing is your profile picture. Your profile picture is very important because will want to connect to you or offer you business Now, if you don't have a profile picture or on that. What do you need to have a good profile picture? Well, first thing is that is has to be close Look into the camera, smile, have a neutral minimal jewellery and accessories and certainly These are things to avoid in your profile Like shades not really suitable for Linkedin. Ok, this one. No explanation needed I think, no alcohol These are actually existing profile pictures Ok, this one taken in a car, not looking in The guy with the big cigar. And this lady probably somewhere on holiday. Now these pictures could work on Instagram because you need a professional look on Linkedin. So how do you know that your profile picture You could ask colleagues or maybe friends and that's to use Photofeeler.com a free one like you and me they review your picture on and competence. Now let me give you an example, so here it I logged in my existing Linkedin profile and competent and influential but as you can see So what I did I uploaded another picture where And as you can see likability has improved influence have dropped. So I decided to stick to my original picture of being competent and influential is far So Photofeeler.com try it, use it and update Now, another thing that you can do is to also because few people do that. And standard, by default you have like this bit boring And it''s really easy and it really helps on Linkedin. So let me give you an example of a background For instance here&quot;s an example of Tara Hunt. She's a market researcher and strategist and background picture. So make it work for you. Second thing you want to do is to have a look Your headline is the piece of text that comes And your headline you have to see that as It has to you know draw the people in to your you. Now per default Linkedin uses your job title There's nothing wrong with that but sometimes Like marketing assistant or sales manager So there's a simple rule that you can use And that's to use your job function and company Now let me explain that. Of course you have your job title and then to ad the important keywords. Now why is that,? Because when people go on Linkedin they often They use the search option to find certain Now think of the keywords that people would title. For instance if you are a marketing manager with SEO or e-mail marketing then it's important in your title. And then the Zing factor. That's something that surprises people, that a little bit more what you stand for. It's something to get attention with. Let's have a look at an example. This is the headline in my profile Expert Academy. I included the most important keywords: like my company Expert Academy. And then the zing is: Helping people in their Here's another great headline from Tim Queen. He managed to get all the important keywords teasing. Marketing and Branding Strategist, Keynote Now the third thing you want to do is to write The summary is the piece of text that you In your summary you can explain what your For instance if you are a sales manager, then help other people, how you can help businesses them. Also in your summary you can add social proof. Now that is very very strong. You can add links to you website, to a blog, videos there. And it's very easy to do, it's super easy. Let me show you how it works. Here is my summary and as you can see I have Youtube video. So when you click here people can watch the Adding external media is super easy. Just click the pencil here to edit your profile. Scroll down to the summary section and there links. So let's say we want to link to a Youtube can see you get the preview and you can change Ok, so here's an extra bonus. If you want you can leave the link to your and then I'll be happy to review it and have feedback and some tips on how to improve it. Just leave the link to your Linkedin profile If you like this video just click the like to our channel to stay updated on future videos.