Hello and welcome back to another week It's hard to believe, we were bracing ourselves for day With such a short summer behind us, But to our surprise, the past few weeks have given us clear It has been a relief especially as it's helping to push forward And while Philippe waits for the soil to dry out completely, last week's prep means it's time to tackle splitting it apart to sort out what Claude suspects I didn't think it would be It's ruined, you see, it's worn out. But that's not what's causing the problem. You see, there's grease there, Isn't that grease there? Oh no, there shouldn't be any. The problem is Okay, so The tractor has been split in two. We took out the clutch system, So it was not stuck together, actually. But, there was bolts the clutch was well used as well. It's a double clutch. One clutch is for the back for, and everything that you do. And the other clutches for driving the tractor The plate was, very worn, The only sad part is the, clutch plates at the back. were still in a good shape, but they're very oily that we need to solve, the mechanism here, I don't know what it's called, but, that's disengaged, So actually, it's good news. So the only thing that needs replacing is this rubber ring here to stop coming inside there and making everything, greasy, which it shouldn't be. So, we need to look for, new clutch that I have available The old tractor we found in the fields. So we're going to open that one up. Same as we did with this one. Take out that clutch, And if it's in a good state, Doesn't mean we're giving up on the other tractor. Just going to put it back together. I've already found a guy apart like this one and I will ask him If he has, I'll, buy it. And the remainder of this clutch I'm going to keep for parts. So because a lot of the stuff, So that's it. Search this. Open up the other one. Get the clutch out. If it's in good shape, put it in this one, Because we think there's actually still something wrong If we turn this wheel that was on here, we could feel a different compression this is the other side of the And where your clutch. Well, it is in between here, This turnes properly. It's greasy. I'll clean it up. But, the mechanism behind here and teeth on these cogs I'm going to call them are still in a good shape. So Claude said this should still be good. So the only thing we need to do is clean. There's a little bit of all the grease So basically the same thing as the other one. Start disassembling the fuel lines. Everything that is connected to the back half and the engine, The only difference might be since this one is a little bit that it's been standing, still for a long, long time. Okay, we just got to remove the bolts for the diesel tank oil filter It's a big difference. You notice until I know a few years ago, Or inside the barn. And this one, you just notice it It's all rusted. Don't get me wrong, the other one has rust as well, but. This brings us to our, sponsor, Reolink. they send us their wireless, Just open it up. you have the wireless bell And for inside, this is the chime. So you know when someone is, at the door. Where am I going to install? It is on the driveway. And this is actually perfect I don't have a network wire over here. And I'm going to put it here temporarily as you guys know. But, it will be a lot better and they start shouting, we don't always hear it. So normally when they arrive now, it's They should be able to see it. just click it in. It's a 2K 4 megapixels day and night. Smart detection. So it will let you know wireless battery powered. It has, two way communication. It's waterproof. It's, smart home. So you can connect it to other devices. what is great is If you put a little micro SD card Of all the footage that has happened. And it has 2.4GHz So that's, more than plenty. Ah yes. You are always... always right. It's all rusted like you said. This one is nice. You don't need to take it fully apart. You only need to take this out. Yes, I read that it's it's not easy to adjust. Okay, I'm really happy. Lets close it back up. I'll take the bolts. It's good now, you can put your bolts in. All right, So it was a little bit but we we got it free, we took out the clutch, which is in We put it back together. And on this one, "the bute" the clutch fork in English is also broken. What I'm going to do now is we put it back together, I'm going to put all the injectors and I'm going to tow it back up, and it's until we can do the renovation of the old barn. And then I'm going to put it inside going to open up So we had to unstuck it again. And then it was turning So I need to open it up. And then on the newer tractor I'm going to look to get the clutch redone, we're going to put tractor together the engine again, If it isn't, we're going to open up that Fix that and then it should be good to go. I think The front loader is, moving, but we're only going to put back the front loader once we know the engine is completely fine, because now it's easy to work on the engine. I'm going to try to get, to the bottom of it, but the shop bought it from someone and I know where abouts So I'm going to try to see how long it has been standing He sold it because it was broken and he had to put too many costs Probably, but it might be handy Although we're finding out. And we're not giving up on this one yet. That's just. I can't do it here. I can't take up his workshop for. For several months. Because this one needs a lot of work. You need to open up everything. Luke. I can't ask that of Claude to do it here, so it's better if the barn is renovated. Put it inside because it needs to come fully apart. So you need a place to put all your stuff, all the bolts, keep it nice and tidy, over your heads. Especially me. Might seem a little bit stupid to tighten it, but I want to prevent water or other stuff that has already been damaging this. To do more. Let's get the other exhaust off. If it works. All right, huppa. this one is from the newer tractor, not that properly. So everything is closed again And the newer tractor gets the one from on here. I'm almost done. I guess. You see, it breaks! Oh, you mischievous one! Calm down, June. Ok, let's go back. I'll take the van and the chains. Well, there you go! Reassembled. That's So Claude said we're done We put the other tractor inside, There is enough room, there is everything you need. It's this pedal that brakes. Is this also a brake? Yes, both of the pedals. This one is for the right one And if you adjust this You saw it right? Yes, I saw it brakes really well. Philippe worried for nothing. Monsieur. Monsieur. Monsieur. This is a wildlife camera where our chicken died to see It's been here three weeks now, We're going to move it into our forest, hoggs or, deer or anything interesting on camera. Comes included with little solar panel It's actually pretty much the same We hang up on the wall. The main difference is this one so no Wi-Fi so you can put it in a forest So that's nice. I know a lot of you So I have a surprise for you. There's a lot more cleaning up to do here. I don't know what it is. Maybe it was an old road, it has been used. As a dumping ground for all kinds of, plastic and stuff. So it is very important so we can make a path towards here especially the little excavator, a little bit, sift through it It's only this part in this, creek bed or old road, I don't know, 20m for the rest. It's fine. There's a little bit more up there, but, This is, the place. Loads of footsteps. Animal footsteps, loads of water. What you're doing is already enjoying, when the sun is shining. So we have an idea where to hang the little solar panel, more tricky here. But a good test on how long the battery will last. If you're in the market for a Reolink camera, the Reolink Go Ranger PT Be sure to click the unique link Even if you're just browsing, it's worth checking out all the solutions And clicking our link also helps support our channel. Plus with black Friday this is Reolink's biggest sale of the year, making their products You might just find the perfect security upgrade Now stay tuned for some very cool footage we captured through the Reolink app one early morning. So, the only thing I didn't test I looked on my cell phone a few meters up, and I was still getting reception, so I hope this one does too. It is calibrating. And then it's And then normally we have perfect reception here. Show you an image. I haven't calibrated it yet, but. So as you can see it is working. So I'm going to see which spot And then, we're done here. Very happy. Oh, June(tje). All right. I'm going to start digging again This little hill behind me. I have to wait for the tractor. I need a new clutch, or we need to redo the clutch plates, and I need a new seal where the crankshaft enters. It's, leaking oil there inside to where the clutch is. I'm ordering those, and I'm going to try Then we can, continue But for now, it's It's still dry. Everything has a little bit So let's continue. Let's get it done. I'm going to put this soil to the side, it contains a lot of the stones at the top And they put in, modern stones there. So with this to the sides, it's And I might, sift it for the big stones How do you call it? A gable? The top triangle of the barn. Okay. That's, fun times. Almost two weeks dry. Drive one time down there with the dumper stuck.