[electronic music] Sandeep: Hi. a developer advocate Welcome to the Google at the Dalles, Oregon. Take a look around. Before we go inside, that we have the appropriate Most Google employees can't So let's go on a special [keypad beeps, door opens] I'm here with Noah from the Site Reliability Noah, can you tell us about the SRE role at Google? Noah: Yeah, SREs write and designed to keep Sandeep: So what happens if Noah: We've designed our systems to be able to handle that might occur. We have highly redundant and serving domains so that an entire cluster, we're able and live migrate data in In addition, we have a team that can tackle any problems Sandeep: Thanks, Noah. Now we've learned more that manage our fleet let's take a deeper look at the data center Before we can we need to go through and circle lock. These only allow one person and require to continue further. I'll see you [control beeps] computer voice: Please to begin the procedure. Please come a little closer [beep] Sandeep: Welcome to As you can tell, we have and this is a single cluster in a single building. Managing all of these servers is quite a challenge. To utilize our fleet, such as Borg, Colossus, You may be familiar such as Kubernetes, and BigQuery. These tools allow and Cloud customers to more easily manage allowing everyone to build innovative and scalable Here at Google, a lot of our This gives us the flexibility we need to run Oh, hey, it's Virginia, Virginia: Hey, Sandeep. Sandeep: Virginia, Virginia: Today I'm working to expand to deploy additional machines Our fleet is constantly growing for Google products Sandeep: That sounds like to be constantly adding capacity Virginia: Well, we designed so that this kind of capacity Jupiter, our current data center is a hierarchical design using software-defined So just like with our servers, we abstracted away the specific and can manage them like they're Sandeep: Abstracting seems to be I've also noticed running in our data centers. A single building can and carry over one petabit which is actually more than Sandeep: Wow. to reliably access storage with low latency Sandeep: So how is all our other data centers Virginia: Google runs B4, our own private, highly which is actually growing faster than our Internet-facing It connects all and allows services to in any location. I finally know what all this Thanks, Virginia. Sandeep: So now you've seen all the compute and networking required to run your workloads let's take a look safely and securely stored. Let's go. Whether you're querying or storing petabytes all of your data needs to Our data center infrastructure to access our storage At our scale, we need to handle on a daily basis. While your data we need to destroy or recycle so no one can access your data. From the time a disc to the time it's decommissioned, we maintain a very strict chain The discs are completely wiped in a huge shredder. Let's go shred some hard drives. [beeping] We've looked at that runs in our data centers, We need to cool and power in an environmentally Let's take a look Welcome to the mechanical Looks pretty cool, Oh, hey, it's Brian, our data center Brian: Hey, Sandeep. Brian, can you tell us a little Brian: Sure. for one of the data centers So a lot of heat is generated and it all has to be removed, and that starts right here So it's basically two loops. We have the condenser and we have The process water loop are these So they take the heat and they transfer it to The condenser water loop are these green and yellow They take the cold water they transfer it to and they send it up to the Sandeep: I notice our pipes It's pretty cool. So how efficient is Brian: Well, Google has the most efficient data centers In fact, when we started or P.U.E., in 2008, most data centers At that point in time, but since then, and that even includes Sandeep: Whoa! Also what's this big Brian: Oh, well, We very rarely use them, but it helps keep the process in the desired temperature range when it gets really hot outside, basically helping and some of they have no chillers at all. Sandeep: I love how our new data By the way, can we go up and Brian: Sure. Sandeep: Wow, Brian: So, Sandeep, It uses evaporation from the condenser loop and You could say we're making Sandeep: Clouds making actual So, Brian, how do Brian: Well, that all starts at Let's go take a look. So this is the Google-owned This is where the high voltage It's reduced and then sent to multiple power such as this one right here. Sandeep: What happens if loses power? Brian: If it loses power, multiple generator available to maintain power Sandeep: And where does Brian: It actually comes from multiple hydroelectric that are nearby. reliable green energy Brian: We are Sandeep: That's pretty cool You know, it seems like from the ground up, all the way to the software Thanks for showing me around, Brian: No problem. Sandeep: Thank you this special Please check out to learn how you can build