Hello, British Vogue. I'm Adele and today I'm going with this blindfold on, trying to identify some to show you how I like my cups of tea, which I didn't prepare that when I was filming it, add a bit of sugar, bit of milk, stir it, stir it, I like PG Tips myself, but that's Twinings. Feeling nervous. Also feeling like I'm in the What's that? What the f**k is that? It's a cut-up pickled egg this bit, innit? Oh. Pickled egg. I don't love a pickled egg. I actually used River Lea cafe, in Tottenham, and like helping, like, take out the food I was making some of those breakfasts. Only got pickled egg, but it's nowhere near as bad as jellied eel, which is probably just boiled, actually, now One of my nans, I won't name them, she likes Oh, it's cockles. I can tell already. Last time I had cockles must have been... I was sometimes, down to the beach. When I say a beach, pebbles and all that, but they were yummy and very Smoked mackerel. Aw, that reminds me of my mum. My mum used to It tastes just like mackerel. I learnt to cook on maybe like two months, and I was getting loads of so I think I read 30 Minute Meals by good old cooking, but I do make an incred, even Italians that spicy pasta. I can't believe I got that wrong. Is this another appetiser? Pork pie. Please be right because I got I've never had one as posh as this. It's get the little ones you get in a pack from the stuffed. My favourite British dish would be a every single Sunday. It's my son's favourite. And with some coleslaw, some rice and some fries and me fries as well. On me fries? Me chips! Oh, Oh, bangers and mash? What is that? I don't Is this a fry-up? It's a A fry-up, A, is the perfect hangover cure, which plate we've got two fried eggs. We've got, what's two grilled tomatoes, three black pudding. You That's the congealed sausage blood thing. Well, Worcestershire sauce on my beans, just like a little put this horrible other brand, I can't remember hate it. That's why I actually started, I still do, with me. A bit like Beyonce has hot sauce in Is that jacket potato? Oh, it's fries. Oh, mushy pea. Oh. It's fish and chips. I look like a right... But I normally can describe that without sounding a bit rude, were weird. It was like a astronaut sausage. It was See! Oh, so the question is, though, is a I'm gonna go with cottage, oh, cottage pie or Oh, I got fixated on it. No one makes a greater It's, basically, you kind of cook it I'm really giving Jamie Oliver My ideal meal, my death row meal, my last meal then fries. That's my three course. I Trifle. Thank god I got that one right. Cheap and actually ever put fruit on mine, I just do the actually. I do love a Terry's Chocolate Orange. I can It tastes a bit like Christmas pudding, so it must be a fruit cake. Oh, I don't Is that, what is that? Eh!? Spotted Oh, it's a pie. Oh, oh, it's Mmm, banoffee pie. Oh, I knew that the minute My mum, she used to make a really good one of taste good. She was useless at making any kind everything she ever did would just be called a rock cake, Oh, no. What's it called? It's like, it's Oh, what's it called? Battenberg! Ah, Dot Cotton cake. I've got it right, though, a little bit, though. definitely one of my childhood favourites, OK, there's lots of strawberries. I'm Eton mess. It always sounds posh to me because school. I think my first memory of Eton mess Tottenham, but we did a few years in house I've ever lived in. It was with my mum. In in the press as if it was like really what became a discount store, and all of and it was amazing. We had a young family at boys that used to run up and down in their big Eton mess one day and brought it out, That was fun. What's my score? You're saying I got mackerel. Go ask anyone in London. Go ask anyone in same texture, everything. And then spotted dick, I just because I've lost weight, I know everything still. Thank you, British Vogue, for a lovely afternoon lot of fun. I'd like to see who does this next,