In the world of boats there are little boats And then there are the This is a cruise ship. The MSC Meraviglia built in Saint-Nazaire, France, and christened by Sophia Loren. It is the-- Sorry, she is the biggest to have ever docked in New York City. There's a water park, a mall, an arcade, a bowling alley, a gym, two theaters five pools, nine restaurants, and enough room for and 1,536 crew members. Cruise ships are the biggest passenger vessels that humans have ever built. They can fit a small town's worth but they have a certain look to them. Far from the look of the big of 100 years ago. So how did the biggest ships Before cruise ships, the biggest were ocean liners. Built for one purpose: To take you somewhere. In the golden days of ocean travel before the airplane, people They had to use ships. That's Peter Knego. He's a cruise journalist and ocean liner historian. Advertisements from this boasted their speed across and their luxurious comfort... which, given the conditions wasn't always easy to achieve. If it's February and you're crossing you're going to be absolutely miserable. And the last thing you want to do is realize that you're on a ship. What they used to do at the turn they would design at least the first class... part of ships to look like or even palaces themselves. Ocean liners like this one, tried to replicate all the amenities There were restaurants, and a massive lounge with For the first class passengers at least, all of the comforts of a city... but at sea. There was a picture of the Aquitania what was then the world's tallest building: The Woolworth Building. And the Aquitania was longer and taller And that was their way of saying literally a floating city at sea. Just to inspire the confidence But the rise of air travel meant that being the only way to cross oceans. And by the 1960s ocean liners were slowly becoming obsolete. As ocean liner companies struggled they tried something different. "No longer do liners even attempt "Now the word is luxury." "A vacation at sea." They continued transatlantic service in the northern Hemisphere's But in the winter months, leisure trips to warmer regions... and they started advertising From selling transportation The cruise ship was born. But they got off to a slow start. They didn't really take off until which exploded the idea It wasn't just something that and made cruising something But as cruises started to become mainstream ocean liners had a problem. They were designed to go fast They sat low in the water, but meant they could only access They had separate sections for first, but that left a lot of passengers and limited everyone's freedom of movement And compared to the full time ocean liners were huge. So they'd have to attract a lot of vacationers Everything that had made ocean liners for commuting quickly made them poorly fit for vacationing slowly As sea travel continued to dwindle even the largest ocean liner couldn't generate enough revenue And it sat idle for years until 1979 when Norwegian Caribbean Lines and made an announcement that They were going to convert the France into a full time cruise ship. Since speed was no longer a concern they shut down one engine room and removed two of the four propellers. To get passengers to islands they installed tenders. These are smaller ships that To open up amenities to all passengers they took out the barriers and to attract enough vacationers they loaded the ship with of entertainment options. There are sporting facilities and bars, a multi-confession church, kindergarten, party games, educational courses, The ship began service in 1980, Where other ships made 3 to 4 stops in a weeklong cruise The Norway only made two. They weren't advertising a cruise The ship was the destination itself. The Norway proved that size and it kicked off a race to build that changed the look of To fit more cabins and amenities, that's all of this that rises above which hid the once prominent smokestacks. The smokestacks, because the ships the funnels are these tiny little afterthoughts. To fit even more cabins superstructures became wider, That's this forward part of the ship. There is no space where there's just where Jack and Rose can go stand and say they're king of the world That's all gone. The bow didn't need to be long intense waves like on So builders rounded them out... giving even more square footage When the Norway began service in 1980 it was the biggest operating With an internal volume of over But the ships built over make the Norway look tiny. And even make once legendary The ship that held the record for so many years was She was 83,000 tons. People said they will never Well, now the new Royal Caribbean ships are literally three times the size. When this ship, the Icon of the Seas, it'll be all the way up here with a volume of over 250,000 gross tons. That elegance of design is missing I think, on a lot of the big new ships. It's just the way things go. And, you know, we all miss And I'm sure people in 50 will pine on about how great-looking the ships were back in the 2020s. There are over 320 cruise ships sailing around the world but there's only one ocean liner left. The Queen Mary 2, also built in service since 2004 and Still in regular service from Southampton