- Just yank it? Ah, come on you bastard. Oh, wow. Now it's really mad. Whole thing's still running. Meet Z16, the latest member That's right. Not only do mainframes still exist, but powering high frequency like global banking and travel. But as of today, you can get a configured with up to 256 cores built on the latest seven-nanometer and with up to 40 terabytes of memory. Very few outsiders have ever been invited to IBM's 100,000 square foot Z test lab. So we are gonna pack as much as we can into the very short time that Just like I pack our videos with sponsors. - Ridge Wallet, time to Ridge Wallet can hold up to 12 cards, comes with a cash strap or money clip, and is available in tons Use the code &quot;Linus&quot; to save 10% and get free worldwide (upbeat music) - The core pillar of Z It's short for zero, like zero downtime. And their target is seven or about three seconds of And to achieve that, takes an architecture that's for resiliency. Now, out of the hundreds of Z systems that they're beating the there's just one Next Gen Z16 that they got all gussied up for us with the fancy covers and everything, only for us to immediately ignore them and start digging around in its guts. Starting at the bottom, that these heavy black chunguses But as it turns out, Z16 does into a building wide cooling system. Instead, they opted for where every rack that has a and radiator unit down here at the bottom. And if you look closely, you can actually see the that's in case one fails. There's actually also an empty spot where it looks like one That's because in the validation phase, they weren't sure if these their reliability standards. So the plan was to just just in case. These are actually power lines then, routed through the three-foot crawl space that's all underneath us, And each of these two is of 208 volt three-phase power Power that needs to be distributed. That's where these come in. Each of these power distribution units or PDUs down the side here, are meant to be fed in the event of a power loss. And basically you can think of these as the enterprise grade So using the onboard ethernet port, a technician can monitor power usage, turn off particular plugs for maintenance, or even update the firmware. Does your power strip No? Gross. Next up, things get really spicy. Each Z16 system can be configured with up to four of these compute drawers. And each compute drawer of their new Telum chips. And these things are really cool. Let's go take a closer look. What a monster. Telum is a chip-like design and you can actually see It's got support for DDR4 and 64 lanes of PCI Express per socket. Which is neat, but that tells While a consumer, x86 CPU, for let's say decoding Telum brings some very to the table. Each one of these cores, has a co-processor to and IBM's own compression algorithm. Then each dye gets its own And this is one of their an AI accelerator. The reason for bringing that on dye, is that customers like have these complex machine learning models that they've built for, for But data scientists care about accuracy, not necessarily the So what they found out was that but they didn't have the to every transaction. Or well rather they could if they had all the time in So if your bank has an SLA of nine milliseconds on a transaction, and there's not enough time to apply their fraud detection model, they either have to just let or decline it, risking the customer just in their wallet, effectively giving that By putting the AI processor on dye, they're giving it direct access to the transaction data that rather than forcing it to And compared to last Gen Z, IBM is figuring on a 20 to 30X improvement in performance with, and this is critical, better The cash on this chip But to properly talk about that, we need to zoom out a little bit. Now we're looking at a Each of which contains four Telum chips. Actually, this one's only I'm assuming I have this ESD strap on, so I can install the last one, right? - [PJ] All you. - Is it this one? - Wait, so you guys handed Oh, well, that was your first mistake. Okay. Where's the nifty install tool? Ah, yes. Okay, cool. So I've seen this demo once, which should be more than enough for me to perform it for you. The Telum chip goes in a Then this Doohickey (indistinct) lines up with the dots on the thing, then you grab the chip, right? You make sure it's not gonna come off over something soft-ish. Okay. Holds onto a little We really hope the CPU doesn't come out. If it comes out in the It won't, right? (PJ laughs) I just have a bit of a reputation and I don't need it right now. I don't need the SAS from Then I poke this in here, I think. I poke in there and then Well, unlock it. And boom, it's in. We give a little wiggle. Heck yeah. Now we're halfway. The next thing we gotta And this is super cool. One of the first questions I asked them when I walked up to &quot;What the heck kind of My initial gut feeling was that it looked like some Like, I mean, it's not in commercial products. The PlayStation 5 is using liquid metal. But actually it's solid metal. So rather than being like an this is just an Indian thermal pad. And what's great is you can they've got the size just exactly right to cover where the dyes under the integrated heat spreader. So these are gonna be the interface between the integrated liquid there we go, and our processors. And I guess, I can't even tell... Is the latch on? Kind of looks like it. Where's my torque wrench or screwdriver. Oh, is this it? - Look at that. It's all Yeah, this feels like a lot. I mean, I guess it's a Oh, this really feels like a lot. Is that... Okay. Whoa. Putting that kind of pressure on that kind of spicy, I'm sure you guys are used to it though. This is adorable. Little 3D printed hose holders. Do you know how many times and I wished I had one of these to hold a block out of the I love it. I don't like this screwdriver. We're gonna have to make a for you guys. We're working on our own Yeah, he knew I was gonna That looks freaking awesome. Like that is hardware porn right This four CPU config gives in this drawer and a whopping 256 PCI But you might have noticed, the motherboard that they're installed on is really unusual looking. Where are the memories slots? Where are the VRMs? Let's answer the second one first. This is called a POL card They haven't showed me how to take it out, but I'm sure I can figure it out. Ah, yes, there we go. These are super cool. These take the bulk 12 volt power that comes from the power and step it down to the for the CPUs and the DRAM modules. And the craziest thing about these is that they've got 14 power phases each and they can be dynamically on where they are needed, with two of them actually So these three do all of the work, and these two, including one are doing absolutely nothing I love seeing that old school IBM ass logo on like cutting edge (beep). Total combined output Okay, I'll be sure not to. Now, they get some additional help from... Ah, yes. Here they are. Come on out little buddy. There we go. This is called a voltage It's smaller with fewer phases, but it contributes to and things like that. And then... Oh, one other really cool is the oscillator card Oh, I think this thing is locked. There we go. I'm moving it. In the front of the compute drawer here. We talked in more detail in our timecard video. But essentially, they and ensure that all the are running at exactly the same time to avoid wasting clock cycles and operate more efficiently. Now let's move on to memory. And this is where things get really funky 'cause I ain't never seen a memory module looks There's at least three Number one, is that even some of the power delivery is like we've seen with DDR5. Second up is the IC configuration. We've got 10 of these DRAM chips which doesn't really correspond with any kind of ECC error correction that I've ever seen in my life. And it turns out that that's because it's Each memory controller in the system, actually addresses eight and the ECC is handled more like RAID, with the parody data striped across the eight different modules. It's all managed at the Finally, we've got this What's this thing called again, - [PJ] Explorer. - It's the Explorer. This is a proprietary buffer ship that basically adds to latency hit, but allows the memory controller to address vast amounts of memory with each of these systems of DDR4 memory. Absolutely flipping insane. Papra, pa, pa, pa, pa. Now let's talk about why I to explain Telum's cash configuration? Where a normal CPU would have a tiny, lightning fast level to the processing cores, followed by a larger slower level two and then a largerer slower level three and so on and so forth. Telum has an already aggressive 256 kilobyte, private So they've got eight of That is then backed up by of level two cash per core. To give you some idea of what Look at this dye shot. This thing has more cash And it does a away with out the window. Now IBM's engineers &quot;Well, the level two cash is so big. We probably won't need Fair enough. But they didn't. Instead, when a line needs to be evicted from one of the core's it will actually look for empty space in another core's level two, and then mark that as Now for that core to then fetch it from another core's cash, does add latency compared in its own level two but that would be true of a And this approach affords them an incredible degree of flexibility, particularly for cloud customers who might have very from one to the next. And it gets even crazier. Evicted lines can also to another CPU altogether allowing a single core to to up to two gigabytes of from the other CPUs in the drawer, and up to eight gigabytes if we go beyond. Is this the beyond? I suppose I believe I died To my right is a fully kitted out Z16. And now we can both continue and actually expand on the with that single rack unit. This one has all four possible You can see there's one here and there's actually three And in order to connect them, IBM uses these super These things are super badass. They've actually got heat sinks on them. And inside the sheath, you'll find 10 plus one with each fiber carrying for a total of 250 gigabit per second. Oh, and of course, all of Two of them between each Now over these links, the system allows the CPUs to share that level two as a virtual level four. Which can apparently in some to draw off of this CPU's cash over SMP-9, versus pulling off of your own DRAM in your own compute drawer. It's insane. I'm just getting permission to pull a coupling link card out, but I realized we didn't even How sick is this? Just wanna fill up your Got your like giant... Looks like stainless Absolutely gorgeous. I'm 104! - [PJ] '04! - [Chris] Okay! - Just data center things! How's it going? - [Chris] Good. - Awesome. Look at these chunky quick connects, man. That is sick. Do you want me to pull the collar back. It'll be fine, it'll be fine. You'd have to actually link them together to let the liquid flow. Hey, the lights on, look at this. And one, and... I don't know. Sure, like that. Hey, there we go suckers. This is a coupling link card. It's using multi-mode fiber, for short range, high bandwidth linking of multiple Z systems And it uses PCI Express. The idea here is that, depending on the customer's which is often government mandated, they could have a whole for high availability, which could allow an with immediate failover and no data loss. That's why these plugged directly For less bandwidth intensive IO devices, we rely on these. You can fit so much PCI and this bad boy. Code name &quot;Hemlock&quot; makes than they are, but they're still pretty cool. Using these direct attached copper cables. Actually... Ah, cool. I've got one of these right here. They have a 16X PCI link And then you can stack these puppies up with a ton of IO cards. NVMe storage, crypto I mean, you can actually So pretty much whatever ad in can go in one of these. And the PCI Express link between the hemlock right goes a little something like that. Pretty cool. Now, you guys might have noticed that only the center two while the outer ones are all IO. In fact, this one over here on the right is just an entire tower of IO. That's normal. And most of the cards that are either FICON or CICSPlex cards. And these work together from connecting to storage to offsite synchronization and backup. They can go unboosted up to 10 kilometers and 100 kilometers with boosters. But in order to test that, we're gonna have to It's not for hairstyle. It's got a mainframe up Welcome to the patch room. In here, you will find alongside 200,000 IO connections. The blue ones are OM3 multi-mode fiber for carrying PCI Express Those are the ones we saw before. And often these would which is their enterprise class storage. While these ones are almost all FICON. And this is super cool. If normal fiber channel drops a packet, the origin is gonna retransmit &quot;No big deal,&quot; says I. &quot;No,&quot; says IBM. &quot;That is a big deal.&quot; So FICON actually contains enough storage on each adapter in the link that only the last hop of the journey needs to be retransmitted. This apparently has both performance and security implications. Sounds expensive. Then over... Oh crap, I lost it. There it is. Check this out. Inside this box is 50 that they can combine with you can actually see it right there, to test out their offsite capabilities under real world conditions. And while we're over Each of these racks is set up And what these do is they of 13-10 fiber, convert them transmit them hundreds of then split them all back like with a prism, into your separate channels. Freaking bananas, right? Then there's the brains of the operation. The support element, or as Although because it's Z, And I don't know how much she'd like that. The support element acts for the system, making sure that everything by monitoring this intra that is checking temperatures and reporting on failure events. Bringing us to the big question. What does it actually do? Well, the biggest draw is reliability and lightning of transactional data. That's what it does way And Z16 aims to improve over last Gen by introducing tools that and faster, thanks to a as well as adding new tools that will help come customers identify and streamline security in the organization. Sounds fancy. So I'm sure you're wondering Well, the truth is that the assuming they haven't changed it by now, is more of a guesstimate. A bear cage actually starts in But every single system is custom built to the spec of the purchaser. And the IBM folks here laughed and said, &quot;Well, by the time you've gone to actually run it, I'd say we're pretty comfortable with that million dollar So you won't be having any of these in your basement lab anytime soon. But what you might have is FreshBooks. Thanks FreshBooks for Now I'm gonna go ahead and guess that you're not an accountant, which is why you're FreshBooks is built for freelancers and small business owners who don't have time to waste and payment processing. In fact, FreshBooks users a by streamlining and like time tracking, following up on invoices, with features like their new digital bills and receipt scanner. Over 24 million people and love it for its intuitive It's easier to see at glance, exactly where your business stands, and it's even easier to turn everything over to your accountant come tax season. 94% of FreshBooks users to get up and running. And with award-winning So try FreshBooks for free for 30 days. No credit card required by Huh? My voice is shot. So if you enjoyed this video, maybe go check out our tour It was super cool. Feel like this is like a Don't get it wet. (laughs)