Narrator: Every day, we use often under dangerous conditions. In Indonesia, workers pull out while inhaling toxic gases. Deep in the coal belt of India, 17-year-old Rinky illegally that weighs as much as her. And here in Egypt, limestone is causing respiratory diseases. We got an inside look at to see how workers risk their Our first stop are the where miners work with sharp all for a wage of $6 a day. Narrator: About 160 miles south of Cairo sits one of the largest This is Al Minya, Egypt, and hundreds of mines dot the landscape. Tens of thousands of freelance miners chip away at this land. For these guys, each day And this is where the danger begins. These trucks aren't meant for passengers. Workers have gotten injured from falls along the winding journey. Narrator: The trip to the mountain takes about 40 minutes. Narrator: The workers first share a meal while the sun rises. Then it's time to get suited up. Since these miners are freelancers, they have to buy their Often, homemade cloth masks, are all miners have to shield them. They grab their tools The most important one is the round saw, and that's also the most dangerous. First, miners have to Two separate machines They slice the stone into Narrator: The machines move quickly. They're really heavy, and they're loud. Narrator: Workers shout at each other to warn the machines are nearby, because the real hazard is those saws. A quick step is all that separates miners from razor-sharp blades. Narrator: Miners are responsible when they break and That's also risky work. Narrator: The cutting but they fell off years ago. Now the blades are exposed. Narrator: While the mine the electrical wires are Narrator: As the machines cut stone, they kick up rocks in of limestone powder. If there's no wind, miners It's easy to inhale the fine dust, and if they breathe it long enough, it can cause a long Narrator: Injuries, sickness, are widely reported, but there At one point, the life expectancy here was just 45 years old. Narrator: Zaki says many mine owners will offer under $200 Narrator: Once the stone is safely cut, workers turn the blocks so as it goes by again. At the start of a new quarry, the stones don't come out perfect. Those chunks head to a separate factory to be ground into powder. Perfectly cut stones that haven't but these blocks have so miners throw them And they have perfect aim. If they're lucky, they might get a $3 on top of their $6 daily wage. Narrator: The bricks are sent to Cairo, which has around 80% of Egypt's limestone-processing capacity. The limestone is made and used in papermaking, agricultural products, and even medicine. Globally, the limestone market hit an estimated $73 billion in 2020. Today, Egypt is the largest producing more than 150,000 metric tons. The stone is so lucrative that Minya's economy depends on it. That's why many miners do this work. Their $6 wage is more or working in construction. Narrator: And more people, flock to the mines when Narrator: But human exploitation in this area is not new. In fact, its history is ancient. Through the years, in pyramids, temples, and tombs. Dark limestone made up the core of the Great Pyramids of Giza, and blinding white limestone symbolizing purity and sacredness. Then, in 1303, an earthquake of the Great Pyramid. The white layer was stripped off to be used in the construction of mosques. Today, by one estimate, more than half the limestone quarries The government has cracked down on some, closing 400 by 2019 after but many illegal mines are still operating with deadly conditions and no oversight. So workers have had to take They negotiated a pay raise and created a fund for injured But they faced pushback from mine owners. Narrator: The mine we filmed is licensed. It's called Uncle Waleed's. But the owner told Business Insider the miners still have to Narrator: At the end of his shift, Atef relaxes with a cup of tea The eerily beautiful mine It's a beauty they hope will enough to send some help. Narrator: Himalayan salt doesn't It's mined 186 miles away in Pakistan. Thanks to its pink hue and the salt has exploded in Today, it's turned into lamps, statues, and of course, table salt. But extracting the coveted salt means descending into dark caves, then blasting and carrying heavy rock. Narrator: We went inside the into 400,000 tons of pink salt each year. The Khewra Salt Mine here in is the second-largest The pink salt comes from that crystallized 600 million years ago. Legend has it, it was actually that first discovered these salt rocks when it stopped to take a lick. Then, under British rule, salt Today, it's a popular tourist destination and a working mine, producing the majority All the mining starts This train takes miners Here, tunnels stretch for 25 miles, and it's always 64 degrees Fahrenheit. Narrator: Three hundred miners They've used many of the same mining tools for over a century: pickaxes, Narrator: Miners will spend up to eight hours underground at a time. Narrator: Only half of the mountain salt is actually mined. The rest is used for structural support so the chambers don't collapse. Tractors haul the mined Each day, miners excavate or about the weight of 157 elephants. Outside, they search for and coloring to send to manufacturers. Once picked, the blocks either by hand or crane Historically, Pakistan couldn't so much of it was India would treat the salt, and sell it at a premium. Pakistan saw little of the profits. NPR reported that a ton of could fetch $300 in Europe. In 2019, a social media campaign calling for the end of salt exports That same year, the Pakistani government banned all salt exports to India. The goal? Returning the Narrator: But some Pakistani They didn't speak English and couldn't meet Europe's Only about a dozen to sell products under Pakistani Muhammad was one of them. Every month, he purchases 300 for his company, Himalayan Narrator: His artists turn these blocks into more than 200 different products. Narrator: Most of the but drills and saws in recent years. Narrator: Over in grinds up blocks into table salt. Narrator: Blocks are fed into the grinder and broken down into smaller grains. Workers bag and weigh of pink salt every hour. Like Muhammad's factory, RM Salt also makes lamps and After the raw material we get, we convert it with a different Like you can see in the cutting machine, he's cutting different sizes. Narrator: On this saw, water prevents dust from flying up. But on the grinders, it's not possible, which is why Muhammad's staff wore masks even before the pandemic. Over at RM Salt ... Narrator: The lamps are to prevent humidity from and then they're shrink-wrapped. RM Salt ships 30 containers Muhammad exports about 80% of his products primarily to Western countries where demand has spiked in the last decade because of the alleged health benefits. However, it's such a very makes up these minerals to get any real benefit, in your regular serving of salt itself. But nutritionally, it's pretty Narrator: It's also pretty But others claim Himalayan whether inhaled, used in spa There's a lot of different that can seem very, very appealing, but actually they're not Narrator: And it's these that have driven the price up. Himalayan salt can cost of normal table salt. Narrator: But that money doesn't always make it back to the miners. They take home less not much more than the cost of this bag of Himalayan sea salt at Walmart. And those salaries have stayed the same, even though Pakistan has severed its salty relationship with India. And the pink salt is seeing Narrator: Luckily, the mountain won't run out of salt anytime soon. It's estimated only about have been excavated here. Nothing compared to the Narrator: India is one of the world's largest producers of salt, and a third of it comes The dry, cracked land was once a seabed. Today, over 6,000 families farming salt by hand. They're known as the Agariyas, and they've been salt producers in this harsh environment for generations. Narrator: The air can reach And the land they work on is so salty ... Narrator: All to earn just $4 a ton. That same salt will sell for $260 a ton as table salt, soap, or detergent. Narrator: The Agariyas have faced a long history of mistreatment. But that stigma continues, and this is why the salt farmers still continue to do this job. Narrator: There have to change things in recent years, but many still live in poverty. We went to India to learn how the Agariyas became trapped in the Thousands of years ago, this area was part of the Arabian Sea. Narrator: It was still as part of the Indus River Delta, but an earthquake in 1819 changed the direction of the river. Bhavna: And therefore, this Narrator: But the water that still sits underneath the mud is 10 times making it a perfect place to farm salt. Bhavna: It was considered as a commodity, which is equivalent to gold. Narrator: And the Agariyas have been working here ever since. Monsoons fill this area It can take another four months That is when the salt farmers Narrator: Bhavna Harchandani who lived with the salt The Agariyas arrive every year in October. Patadiya Ghughabhai and they'll need to live in the including supplies to farming tools, and all Narrator: First, they have to find the key to this whole operation, They dig 30 feet into Digging wells can take up to a week. The families then set up these government-subsidized solar panels. They'll power the pumps to the surface. Then the Agariyas build the salt pans, these expansive salt flats. Narrator: The roller helps Narrator: They'll make 10 It's back-breaking work. Bhavna: Now working in Narrator: Everyone in the Narrator: Then the farmers will release the salty It flows between the pans. By the last pan, the water needed to form big salt crystals. The farmers are so skilled that they know it's the perfect salinity simply by tasting the water. Narrator: Over the next few months, as the water evaporates, Narrator: This rake costs $22, too expensive for many of the farmers. Narrator: They have to rake for the first three months. Narrator: They start to avoid the hottest part of the day. Narrator: But working here The life expectancy of a because not only do they They're dealing with subsoil brine, which is highly acidic, and an exposure to that subsoil brine also comes with a lot of problems in skin. Narrator: Many of the from years of the bright sun reflecting off the white landscape. And because they're so far accessing medical care Narrator: Despite these conditions, the Agariyas live and work when the salt is finally ready. They harvest three times. The first produces the best-quality salt. They leave in April, usually with over 1,000 tons of salt, and they'll sell it to a Narrator: His team picks Once it arrives from the Rann ... Narrator: Rafiq employs 200 workers at his factory in Tikar processing and packaging salt. He says he loses about 20% of the salt during the washing and draining process. Narrator: It gets packaged and as crystal salt to be made into soap, detergent, and baking soda. This whole process refines the salt and makes it more valuable, so Rafiq can sell his product what the farmers make. Bhavna says in the time she lived there, she saw salt traders working together to pay as little as possible. Bhavna: If I'm a farmer, if I go and argue that this price is too low, I need more, he will say, &quot;OK, don't give your produce. Go to someone else.&quot; And then that man, the trader, will go and tell the other trader, &quot;If this man comes to you, Narrator: Rafiq denied and says farmers can Narrator: Rafiq says he pays between $5 and $8 a ton, but And most farmers we spoke to said that this season's is between $2 and $4 per ton. Narrator: That means in a good year, a family will earn just over $4,000 for six months of grueling work. But this doesn't pay for as they prepare for the next harvest. So at the start of each season, many Agariyas have to come and ask for a loan to However, that taking advance into the vicious trap of loans and debts. This is the reason why they Narrator: That means in a good year, a family will earn about $2,000 That's well below the poverty line. The Agariyas have never really had control over the salt they farm. The British classified the group under the Criminal Tribes Act of 1871, basically branding all members But many historians to control tribes that or didn't support colonial rule. The law gave police the power to monitor the Agariyas' movements and arrest them with little cause. The British also owned this land, so even though the farmers were the British would take process it, and sell it back Bhavna: The salt farmers, to take their salt out from the region. So what the women used to do, they used to hide the salt and then they would take it Narrator: Many Indians even though it was a staple in their diet. Bhavna: If you cut off the salt supply, it's like, you know, you are waging a war. Narrator: It got so bad that in 1930, Mahatma Gandhi organized one of civil disobedience, TV announcer: As he it seemed that all of Narrator: 60,000 protestors were jailed, including Gandhi himself. Salt would be contested until After British rule, the meaning they were no longer Bhavna: But that stigma continues. Narrator: With few other options, they were trapped producing salt. Bhavna: This is why the salt farmers still continue to do this job. Narrator: And they're still working on land they don't own. After the British left, was taken over by the government, which leased it to the Agariyas. Bhavna: However, the government Narrator: And in 1972, most of the area became a protected wildlife sanctuary. Bhavna: Therefore, they are They're considered as illegal. Narrator: But the government with the community, allowing them to keep farming The government even provides equipment, like the subsidized solar panels and boots to help protect against foot infections. Narrator: In the long term, the salt farmers and their advocates hope for more government involvement, starting with setting a Narrator: Ecologist Ajay Narrator: As their own the Agariyas are moving further away from established Bhavna: Probably we can with minimum water facility so that at least they have some amenities. Narrator: But until help arrives, these people will be back next season. Narrator: Rinky Kamari has been working at India's largest coalfield since she was only 8 years old. Narrator: It's technically Narrator: But she risks her life every day to help feed her family. She inhales toxic smoke and often burns her hands and feet. Narrator: But at 17, she still endures these brutal Narrator: We followed this young woman to see why people here keep working in such a risky business Narrator: Rinky and her the goddess of death, on their way to the Jharia coalfield. Coal collectors built the shrine to honor people who died here. Most of the official mines are operated by a subsidiary of called Bharat Coking People like Rinky dodge police Narrator: The best time is from 4 to 10 in the morning. Any later in the day, Narrator: Rinky has been Narrator: She lost a friend Narrator: Rinky's friend, And she often collects the same Rinky's basket weighs as much Narrator: Rinky walks making several trips from the mine to her home to drop off the coal. Narrator: When she gets home, she cooks the coal to Narrator: Rinky makes about selling coal in the market In India, that's about $11, roughly the cost of a pair of sneakers. But the risks don't end And the same thing that helps is also making them sick. Coal deposits contaminate especially during monsoon season. Narrator: Nearby hospitals like this one are overflowing with patients Dr. Ramesh Kumar Sharma sees Narrator: Jharia's air quality is one of the worst in the world. The coal underground has been burning for more than 100 years. Experts say it catches fire on its own when exposed to oxygen. Flammable gases like seep through homes. Narrator: The floor in Narrator: The mining company to expose the coal. That's destabilized the creating cracks in the earth Narrator: Rinky's house is slowly sinking. Narrator: Rinky's father in Jharia when they moved here in 2005. Narrator: Now the fires that BCCL is moving thousands But the process has been slow. Many locals say they don't from the mines where they work. Others are mistrustful of BCCL's motives. Narrator: Insider reached but did not hear back. Coal consumption is on the but not here. India is the second-largest Coal fuels 70% of the electricity grid. And with a nationwide the government is doubling down. It plans to reopen 100 Narrator: But Rinky doesn't Four years ago, she got an opportunity that could change her life. Narrator: She joined the run by an NGO. About 100 kids are enrolled here. Narrator: And she has big dreams. Narrator: Even though her next step, Rinky in the risky job she Narrator: Hundreds of miners work inside an active volcano battling toxic fumes all day long. They're mining sulfur, which Working conditions here are so dangerous, many miners don't live past 50 years old. Narrator: Miners like Mistar carry up to 200 pounds up and down these steep cliffs. And Mistar has been doing it for 30 years. Narrator: The sulfur is used in everything for matches and rubber It's even what makes our sugar white. Narrator: But most of the world's sulfur comes from oil and gas refining, making volcanic mines like Yet these miners are still working, earning about $12 to $17 a day. Because in this remote part of Indonesia, it's one of the better-paying jobs. Narrator: So why is this form of sulfur mining still happening? And what makes it such a risky business? Narrator: This is as far as There are no roads to the crater, so he has to walk the rest of the way. It's a 2-mile hike up to Narrator: He takes only down into the 1,000-foot-deep crater. Here, he faces the volcano's The air can reach over and he works near one of the world's most toxic volcano lakes. Narrator: And there's the smoke. Narrator: He battles two The first comes from and is channeled through these pipes. Narrator: While mining owns a license to run the mine, the miners are freelance contractors, so they have to pay for their own gear. And many can't afford gas masks. Instead, they use handkerchiefs to keep the sulfur powder from sticking. The second type of smoke It comes from the volcanic and it can be deadly. So if miners see big coming from the lake, Narrator: That's why Mistar The winds pick up through the day, pulling more white smoke Both types of smoke have Narrator: But the smoke is crucial for sulfur production. This is how it works. When the superhot smoke it condenses liquid Narrator: As it solidifies and cools, the sulfur will turn yellow, and miners can begin chipping off blocks. It's the sulfur's two colors that give it the name devil's gold. Miners use their bare Although touching solid sulfur frequently can cause rashes and blisters, Mistar says that as long a sulfur's fine to touch. Narrator: Pre-pandemic, the miners could extract up to 25 tons daily. But since 2020, they've been working in two separate shifts That's lowered the miner's capacity to only 10 tons of sulfur a day. Once he fills his baskets, Mistar hoists them up on But that sulfur is not a light load. Narrator: That's about 154 pounds. Mistar himself weighs just 132. Narrator: Some of the younger miners can carry up to 200 pounds in one load. Narrator: They have to of the crater. Narrator: Some do the Narrator: Once he reaches Mistar can transfer the and begin the 2 miles back. And he'll do this trip Narrator: PT Candi Ngrimbi, also owns this weighing station and the factory where the sulfur ends up. At the factory, workers boil the sulfur and run it through a series of filters. They have to remove any Then they pour it out onto The sulfur is loaded into sacks and sent to sugar factories nearby. It's processed into sulfuric acid, the world's most commonly used chemical. It's used in everything from matches, fireworks, and gunpowder to detergent, paper, and batteries. It's what makes sugar white, and it's an essential and even winemaking. But 98% of the world's sulfur It's a by-product of refining, and oil companies are required What's created is a lot of pure sulfur, a purity that's necessary for making products like fertilizer. Today, the sulfur is worth almost $13 billion and And it's left natural mines especially since mined It can be acidic or contain sand. Yet Ijen is one of the only where people still mine sulfur this way. So why do they do it despite the danger? For the mining company, it's easier and cheaper For the sulfur miners, than other jobs on the Narrator: The mining company pays on the weight of their loads. They get about 9 cents per kilo. With two loads, Mistar can make $17 a day. The mining company did not respond to our request for comment on why the miners are paid so little for what's considered one of the most dangerous jobs in the world. Another possible reason this At night, visitors flock here to see the blue flame from the sulfur gas. During the day, tourists hike Protected with their gas masks, they watch miners work Some miners are now becoming tour guides or making sulfur souvenirs. But most keep working as they always have. Narrator: At the end of the day, Mistar returns home to eat Ijen looms over them, provides for his family's lives a heavy weight to carry on his shoulders. Narrator: This floating mine is home to one of the most Every day, Joko Tingkir risks his life to harvest a precious source from below the ocean floor: tin. Narrator: He breathes powered by a small diesel engine. Narrator: This is the Indonesia is the world's but most of it has been mined on land here on the islands of Bangka and Belitung. But the tin deposits on and the process of excavating it has left behind these huge, toxic lakes filled with poisonous minerals and acids. Meanwhile, mining operations and unlicensed miners for whatever gets left behind. We followed Joko to see how to collect tin and to find out what Joko was born and raised in Bangka. Narrator: About 40% of in the mining industry, and Joko knows it's the The pontoons form what looks like a small floating village, but each float has its own mobile crew. Today, the water is choppy, and there are no life vests on board. All he has are these goggles Even just reaching the Joko stays here for up His oxygen supply comes aboard the pontoon. Sometimes, it can overheat and emit toxic gases into his air supply. Narrator: Joko pulls this blue pipe along with him on the seafloor. First, he checks the sand for Tin weighs more than sand, so Joko says he can tell based on how heavy this handful feels. He sends a sample up to the pontoon through this blue tube so his When his colleagues see it, by bending his oxygen tube, momentarily cutting off his air supply. Once he knows he's found tin, his job is to keep holding in that spot. Above, the filtration begins. His crew places these mats to separate the tin from the sand. Since tin is heavier, it The sand gets dumped back into the ocean off the back of the pontoon. Next, workers peel the mats off and bring them to these basins, where they wash out the tin Then they drain the water The whole process is loud, and it can be hard to keep tabs on Joko, who's still submerged Meanwhile, sucking action from the pipe is creating a crater in the seafloor. The deeper the hole, the and sometimes they crumble. Joko says they've even buried his friend. Narrator: Joko worries for his life, too. At the bottom of the sea, the pressure is more than two times what it is on the ground, and surfacing too fast has Since safety is so expensive, Between 2017 and 2020, an Indonesian NGO recorded 40 deaths linked but many go unreported. That's because these which means what they're Local police go after them, but miners say they are Ninety percent of the is controlled by PT Tema, The government also grants licenses to small, independent Getting those permits, though, means having a modern vacuum system that attaches to the seabed on its own and doesn't require miners like Joko to dive to the bottom of the sea. But pontoons like that cost six times more than what Joko works on. Tin mining in Bangka Hundreds of years of digging on this once tropical landscape. The exposed rocks contains with air and water and leak Massive toxic leaks like Now, 16,000 tons of tin are left on land, but PT Tema estimates are still in the ocean. So Narrator: But offshore mining is killing fish in these waters. A local NGO found that about 13,000 acres of Locals say that eight years ago, they could fish within a Now, they have to travel at least 17 miles to catch enough fish to make a living. PT Tema did not respond to The four men work on the taking just a short break for lunch. At the end of the day, they Joko takes the most, because but he still makes only $13 a day. That's why he can't most deep-sea divers use, like a pressurized helmet He sells his tin on the black market to middlemen like Nasrin ... Narrator: ... who buys it for Narrator: So Nasrin has to refine the tin. A worker washes it again to Now this is the tin Workers then heat these metal Then they pour the tin onto to evaporate any residual water. When workers inhale these fumes, particles of tin can enter their lungs and, over time, affect their breathing. Once the tin is dried, workers And then it's sold to smelters, who extract the metal from its ore. Tin is used in everything: cosmetics, paints, and even fuel. But recently, Joko has been because government regulations to find buyers for his product, Narrator: Today, Joko says to feed his wife and four children. Narrator: But he says they're enough to make him conquer any fear. And his reason to get up the