Garnacheros! welcome back to market of La Cruz in Queretaro!!. As you recommended us, here we are!. Don Chamorro!. Hey bro! it's my first time here.. ..what would you recommend me? a chamorro or some tacos?. A chamorro because it has a lot more of meat. Lasts longer Don Chamorro has over 17 years of history!. And he started selling carnitas. As Don Chamorro told me.. in front of his establishment they had a tavern named Garivaldi. And his owner started to order chamorros. That started to create furor between the people and they started calling him Don Chamorro!. He's from Ezequiel Montez and the recipe of this delicious chamorros came from there!. A chamorro is made for two people, weighs approximately 1.1 pounds. So, do your math if you wanna know how many chamorros you need. Just look at the presentation of this precious chamorro!. It's full! it's full!. You can order it split or with the bone, that depends on you. If you wanna eat one with bone i recommend you to come early because those ones are the first to go!. To be hones i wanted one with bone because, thanks to my mother i really love to.. bite the bones but.. we arrived a little bit late so, check this out This is what we're gonna eat. It's chamorro in slices and it has some skin. And then you can make some tacos!. Some tortillas in other dish. Another dish. Just because here in Don Chamorro, always the best. What's the technique?!. Grab a tortilla, I already told you the technique that my brother taught me is... If you have a dish full.. everything that grabs it!. That's how we used to eat in my house!. The phrase of Don Chamorro is.. &quot;Taco that closes it isn't a taco!&quot; So! lets do what he says!. Salsa!. It's a carnitas sauce as i told you this place started selling carnitas. Some lemon!. Bon a petit!. The meat in the chamorro, for those who don't know. It's the part of behind from the pork legs. It's very soft, very well cooked. You can taste its different spices. Very good! very good, Its sauce is hot but it gives it a very special touch I think this chamorros has to have sauce. You have to come. And if you come, you have to come early because it runs out quickly!. It's always full. It has a little bit of space because of the market. It's like a slam!. Because everyone is like &quot;excuse me&quot;, &quot;excuse me!&quot;. There's a lot of people passing by all the time . So come with a lot of free time and a lot of patience. Don't despair it's going to be delicious!. Also there's some guacamole. I have to say that, that sauce is very hot!. Very hot. The best thing is that.. ..you can make your own tacos, no one can say, &quot;it's too little!&quot;. Buy you some chamorro, make as many tacos as you want and be happy!. This is very important, check it out They're preparing the chamorros in this gigantic thing that they use to make carnitas. And the recipe is the same of the carnitas but the chamorro, has the secret ingredient they gave to this place!. Why would you recommend this chamorros?!. This place is like a tradition. It has its guarantee of quality and flavor. Don Chamorro is ubicated in Garivaldi. On the side of the street Gutierrez Naguera. In the market of La Cruz. We open from Monday to Sunday. From 7 am to 2 pm. We're not that full from 7 to 9 am. So you can come to eat and chill. Every taco costs... And the chamorro costs $75 pesos. And to eat it here costs $80 pesos. To be honest, the tacos are better if you eat them in the market. I recommend them, even thought is always full but.. It's more tasty if you eat it here. Garnacheros i have to go, i'm more than happy with these chamorros. You have to come and try this delicious place. I'm Lalo Villar and this was La Ruta De La Garnacha. If you wanna recommend me a place, down here in the comment box. Be happy, click the thumbs up, share, and above all enjoy this marvelous things of Mexico. See you!. Remember that, if you liked the video, subscribe to the channel . Or to Los Consejos De La Jefa, here i will put the link of a video so you can keep drooling. Greetings to.. our buddy in Houston, he's from Culiacan. What's up bro!. To my buddy from Ecatepunk!. And greetings to.. take care!.