- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [upbeat music] I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm and Ophthalmology at Today, we're going to talk your workspace for maximum productivity. Indeed, that means to to increase levels of creativity, to improve your ability to task switch. And this could be for sake creative endeavors, personal endeavors, this really extends to everybody. Most often when we hear about how to focus or how to get the most we hear about the biology We hear about dopamine and and we hear about caffeine. And indeed, those are topics on The Huberman Lab Podcast. Today, we will touch on each of those, but we are mainly going our physical environment and in that physical environment, in order to bring out the That is how to put ourselves into a heightened state of as simple as where we place our at a given time of day. Believe it or not, there's and there's excellent on whether or not you should whether or not you should use and if so, what frequency We are going to cover all you'll have a checklist to optimize your workspace on any budget. I will mention various products and apps that some of you might find useful for optimizing your workspace. But I want to emphasize at that I mentioned are any products or apps that we have a financial relationship to. And more importantly, you don't need them. I'm going to explain how for zero cost, you can arrange your workspace in ways that makes you maximally and allows you to adapt your workspace to different environments, working with others, Just to give you a little I will mention a zero binaural beats at a particular frequency that peer-reviewed research certain types of learning and memory. However, peer-reviewed research also shows that it can diminish performance So stay tuned, we'll so that you can optimize and get the most out of Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is LMNT. LMNT is an electrolyte drink that has everything you need and none of the things you don't. And when we say everything you Now, salt, aka sodium We've all heard that too However, if you look into and in fact, if you go to peer-reviewed scientific you can find a review article that shows that most of about the science of And in fact, salt does a number of things that's extremely important. For instance, our neurons, through electricity and critically rely on having enough sodium in order to generate what or electrical firing of neurons. If your sodium levels are too low, your neurons simply won't work. One of the main deficits is lack of sodium, not just lack of water. Getting sufficient sodium that's very important, it it can help you retain not excess amounts. It allows neurons to fire for sake of athletic Other electrolytes that are in LMNT are things like magnesium and potassium, which are also essential and indeed all organ function. LMNT has a lot of salt, some magnesium and some potassium, so who really has chronic hypertension, elevating your level of salt You should check with your doctor, but indeed it can often be beneficial. LMNT contains a science-backed of a 1,000 milligrams, 200 milligrams of potassium It tastes delicious, I or citrus flavors, in fact, Put in some water, you meaning as high concentration as you like. So some people will put it I like mine in about 16 ounces of water and I'll drink that And I usually will have just sip on it as I'm If you'd like to try LMNT, you can go to drinklmnt.com/huberman, spelled drinklmnt.com/huberman to claim a free LMNT sample pack, you only cover the cost of shipping. Again, that's drinklmnt.com/huberman to claim a free sample pack. Today's episode is also brought now referred to as AG1. I started taking AG1 way back in 2012, and so I'm delighted that The reason I started taking AG1 and the reason I still take is that it helps me meet all mineral and probiotic needs. And when people ask me, I should take, if they were I always recommend AG1. For the simple reason that the vitamins, the minerals and the probiotic they support endocrine health, and the probiotics and prebiotics support the so-called gut-brain axis. There is now a plethora of that when we have a that has little microbes that are good for us, our and our brain signals back to our immune system, our They can even support healthy an important molecule for motivation and high levels of mood or positive mood. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free of vitamin D3 K2. Vitamin D3 K2 has been for metabolic health, endocrine health and K2 in particular for heart health and regulating appropriate Again, go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim the special offer. Today's episode is also Theragun is a handheld percussive device that releases deep muscle tension. I was first introduced to We were way out in the Pacific, for my laboratory where we study fear, and everyone was diving all day, carrying what are called Pelican cases, which aren't actual pelicans with wings, but cases for these cameras. They're very heavy, we're working really hard, I got particularly sore from Someone brought a Theragun along, I'd never seen one of these and I spent the rest of the with the Theragun as I could, at least when I was on board the boat. With Theragun, you can a deep tissue massage to and you can just do that for as long as you like, If you have someone else there, who's willing to use the like your back, that's even better. Whether or not you want from working out and injury from everyday life, there's for the Theragun. You know, professional but a professional going to a masseuse, it's quite If you're interested they start at only $199. You can go to to get your Gen 4 Theragun today. You have a 30-day money back guarantee, that's Theragun.com/huberman. Let's talk about workspace optimization. This is a topic that's intrigued because my undergraduate and my postdoc advisor including being great and terrific mentors, but they which always perplexed me, were a complete disaster. They had mountains of mountains of all sorts of stuff. And yet all of them were and could remain extremely focused in that incredibly cluttered environment. Now I'm somebody who doesn't like clutter, I find it very hard to focus And indeed there's tremendous as to whether or not or whether or not they struggle to focus in physically cluttered environments. There's no right or wrong to this, but the question we should ask ourselves is why were they all And it turns out that to be so focused is that and yet fundamental variable And we'll talk about In fact, where you're to talk of optimizing a workspace things like light, things whether or not you listen to music or not, whether or not you use noise We're going to talk about all of that and we're going to do that in a way that you can optimize your workspace, regardless of whether whether or not you're Because the last thing is to create a situation where you find the optimal workspace, to that optimal workspace. That's just not the way the world works. What you want to do or is that you will have a that you can look to, anytime and you can think about that impact your brain and your body and allow your brain and body in order to learn, in and indeed to move through your and pleasureful way and while pursuing any that you're doing. The first variable we want to think about in terms of workspace On a previous episode of devoted all to habits, I of dividing your 24 hour day And for those of you that I'm just going to briefly From the time you wake up in or seven or eight, your brain is in a unique state. It is in a state of a neuromodulator, and as well as hormones like Without going into the they set your brain into And this is true, whether or not you indulge in caffeine or not. I know some of you say, oh, I really don't wake up I'm much more alert and We will talk about that phase of the 24 hour day in a moment. But that early part of in which for sake of being in a brightly lit to optimal work throughout the day, not just during that early phase. And so while on many I've also emphasized the morning sunlight in your eyes within 30 to 60 minutes of waking, not as often, but now, and that it's important to light as brightly as you safely can. So if you are going to be what I call phase one portion of your day, you want to have as much light and indeed as much overhead light shining And of course you don't want and you have to squint, et cetera, but you want as much light And you can do that a One is if do own or we have overhead lights, turn What's special about overhead is that the neurons in melanopsin ganglion cells, Melanopsin ganglion in the lower half of and view the upper visual field. Those neurons send little wires to an area of our hypothalamus, right that creates a state of alertness. Now, early in the day, we want And this phase one of our circadian cycle is when we are best at doing So we're going to go into other aspects of workspace optimization that but during phase one, again, or nine hours after waking, bright lights in your environment, in are going to facilitate focus, further release of things like and healthy amounts of cortisol. And we want that to for a variety of reasons. For instance, we don't to happen too late in the day. That's actually associated and a number of things So one of the things that is to make sure that when I do go get my sunlight. If the sun isn't out, I turn on as many bright artificial or tolerate, and then I go But once I set out to do some work that all the overhead as well as lights in front of me. And that's again to stimulate and further release of that I mentioned before, dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine. Now the way that one could do that could be a very low cost a desk lamp and those overhead lights. If you're somebody that wants to take this to the next level, you can I think those are mainly made for people doing selfie type videos, and things of that sort. Ring lights can be pretty cost-effective, and yet they're very bright and blue light that is going those melanopsin ganglion cells. So some people I know or a bright LED on their And indeed I have one of these, I use a light pad. The particular light pad I can mention the brand, but again, I have no financial affiliation to them, this is the Artograph Lightpad And it says on it 930 lux, Lux is just a measure of brightness. So I place that on the desk in essentially throughout Even if I walk away from the it doesn't consume that much energy. And in that way, I'm constantly that keep my levels of alertness up because the early part of the day is when I do the majority Again, you don't need the light pad, you can use a ring light, any kind of other lights that you might happen to For those of you that can and even better to open the window, that would be really fantastic. I don't have access to that. Why would I say open the window? Well, it turns out that sunlight is going to be the best stimulus and body through this And by looking at it's 50 times less effective were to be open, mostly because a lot of the wavelengths of blue light that are essential for and this wake-up signal. So all of this has rests on the premise that we need to be alert in particular focused work. And I've talked about before and I'm saying again now, that first seven or eight is really the time in is primed for getting the most amount of focused kind of challenging work done where a lot of precision So you want to brightly during that first phase, again, try and get sunlight, but to get exercise or do other things, you want to get as much as you safely can and then you want to light Now in the afternoon, and continuing until about you want to start dimming the Now you don't want to make it dark because you don't want to get sleepy at two o'clock in the afternoon, unless you're going to take a brief nap, which I do and is perfectly fine, as long as it doesn't interfere But the idea is that in of the 24 hour cycle from after waking, you want to bring the level of lights down a bit. And when I say down, Having lights that are but overhead lights at that for the sorts of neurochemical states that your brain wants to be in. The states that I'm from the dopamine and norepinephrine that's highest early in things like serotonin that put your brain into for creative endeavors or Now, as we'll soon see, there to improve creative thinking And in fact, there are things you can do to improve analytic thing, things that are distinct from light, but right now we're So what I recommend doing, is I will turn off overhead It's not completely dim, but I will start to reduce and just simply keep the light pad on and whatever other lamps Now, one thing we haven't talked This is highly individual, people have different What I mean by that is everybody differs in terms of how bright they can tolerate their visual environment and their screen. And whether or not you are will depend on a lot of factors. Some of it is eye color, indeed people with darker color eyes generally can tolerate more I have green eyes, I am very, If I'm outdoors at a cafe or something, and the table has any kind and it's a sunny day, I across the table from me, Some people, other members have dark brown eyes and have a conversation without the need for sunglasses at all. So that's, there's one or the other isn't healthy just understand that you never where it's painful to maintain that you're looking at. If something's painful to look at, it could be damaging to your eyes, so you do want to protect your eyes. Now, in this second phase of the day, since most of us are working indoors, but even if you're working outdoors, you want to try and get the but in particular, that overhead light, and you also want to start reducing the amount of blue light So somewhere around four or 5:00 pm, which for me is about 12 or 14 hours after I've been awake, I will turn off that light the lights in my environment Now, I can't always do this, have converted their entire early in the day to red that's really cool and There's a cost to doing in terms of optimizing productivity but it's not feasible for a lot of people. But what I do is I simply I will turn off that LED again, around four or 5:00 around 6:00 am or so, I'll turn those off. And what I'll try and do also that I'm working on so to see everything that I need to see, but it's quite a bit dimmer So that's phase two of the day, and that's how we want And then I'll just mention, who are working in the there's phase three, which is about 17 to And I realize that for that are pulling all oftentimes you need to in the middle of the night. I, myself am somebody who from five to 10 all-nighters per year. I still pull an all because of deadlines and so forth. I don't recommend it, if but many people just for sake of shift work or or procrastination or all of the above. If you are going to be doing of your circadian cycle, the amount of bright light that to just the amount that that you're doing. Because if you get light in your eyes, that's any brighter than that, you're going to severely You're going to severely and it's effectively like So if you stay up from or 2:00 am until 4:00 am or something of that sort, and you're getting bright you are effectively flying six hours to a different time zone, or at least that's what And it can really throw your and a number of other things out of whack. Now there's an exception to this, which is if you really want to be awake, it can often be beneficial in the room and keeping One of the hardest things to studying when you're in a dim environment. So you have to determine the trade off between whether or not you or whether or not you And I would say the ideal and to do your work during but if you do have to be awake do understand that you want You would not want to use that LED, you would not want to unless you're really in which case you want to get as many bright lights on as possible. So there are a couple of I don't really want people unless they have to, but that you can do without taking stimulants in order to stay up all that maximize on your biology. One of them that's a is you can drink 32 to not going to the bathroom It turns out that there is a circuit that goes from your that go from your and when you have to urinate, And as many of you have this is actually what wakes us up in the middle of the night when is this circuit for alertness it's signaled by the bladder And this is the circuit that is disrupted in kids that have bedwetting issues. And there are a number of to that, sometimes is because the circuit Most adults fortunately but you can increase the amount and remain awake in the by drinking a little bit more and then refraining from that certainly will lend You know how difficult when you have to use the So that's one tool. The other thing is again, to in the environment as possible. And then of course, people like caffeine or even more That's not something I you'll each have to But if you do in fact, for any reason, you can maximize this bladder to brain approach So that more or less your overall environment and If you really want to there is a free app called measuring how many lux, how many photons are in a given environment. It's actually measuring if you can look up what a I don't necessarily recommend doing that. I don't want to set a for instance, we say, is more than 1,500 lux, or not bright enough, et cetera. Everyone has different everyone will find that will cause them to be alert, if you will, in the room will You really want to just modulate where it's very bright, early in the day so that you are alert. You can do your focus detailed and then in the afternoon, as you move into more creative type or working with other people that you would shift to eliminate the blue lights Now that's light, but there's that has been shown to for how alert we are going to be and how well we can And that has to do with in a given environment. So I'm not talking about what I'm referring to now is simply where you place your phone or your tablet or computer screen or book, whatever it is that you There's a very underappreciated of our neurology that has between where we look and And it works in a very logical way, we have clusters of and those clusters of neurons and they control our eye into the sides. And indeed, if you were I looked at a lot of eyeballs in my lab and I teach neural anatomy, so we would see that there are six muscles attached to your eyeball. Now four of them are located and the two sides of your eyeball, sort of at the 12 o'clock, and nine o'clock of your eyeball. And those muscles can move from side to side and up and down. And then we also have some muscles that can actually pull So we have different muscles at different angles as well, up into the side or down into the side, not just from side to side or up or down. Now, the neurons that have a very interesting feature, which is that when we are or anywhere below, basically the neurons that control that eye movement are intimately related that release certain and neurotransmitters. And they activate areas of with calm and indeed, even with sleepiness and there's an active of neurons that increase alertness. Now the opposite is also that place our eyes into an upward gaze above the sort of level of our nose and up above our forehead. Literally looking up while or if you tilt your head these neurons are still active. Those neurons don't just and cause them to move up, they of brain circuits that are Now, this is a fundamental and brain are wired to what we call autonomic arousal. And there are a bunch of details there. We will actually have a guest to exploit these neurons and these different states in order to generate hypnotic into very atypical states very alert and very calm. We'll save that for a future episode. But the important thing to understand is when you are looking down you are essentially You're reducing your amount of alertness, it might be subtle, but it's happening. Whereas when you look straight when you look up, you're Now this has some obvious implications. When we get sleepy, our and we tend to nod down, we tend to be wide-eyed, we And we tend to be chin up and alertness. So this has a evolutionary, or at least an adaptive component to it. This can be exploited, and in terms of how it can be used to optimize work environments. Contrary to what most people do, which is to look down at their if you want to be alert the maximum amount of that you're reading or or whatever it is that you're looking at to at least be at eye level Now, I haven't seen many of this very hardwired So what should you do Well, if you're somebody and starts to feel sleepy, unable to attend to whatever I highly recommend that you I do hope that most people on their phones because it's and we can talk about why And the idea would be to place or your laptop or other computer, and try and get it elevated your nose level, or even higher. Now I realize that can I've long, just used a stack of books, or I'll sometimes take a and set it there. I do use a mixed standing-seated desk, I'll talk about that in a few minutes. There are a number of different you could wall mount a monitor. I think many people are it's a little bit harder some people though will You have to decide what's But again, in addition to to be able to focus and you're working on, you positioned high in your Now you wouldn't want it I know that would be pretty cool, but you do want it above you. Now, there are a couple solutions a wall mount or stacking books or boxes. For instance, you could that likes to lie in bed or on the sofa and get your screen up above you by putting pillows on your knees. I used to actually do a in the middle of the night, and I don't recommend it, but I used to do a lot of work from bed. Now I no longer bring electronics I just really try and keep or whatever else. But in terms of lying down on the couch, it is somewhat easier to get you can kind of slide underneath but there's a problem with that. And we'll talk about this a but it turns out that your posture, literally the position of also has important implications So ideally you would I would say the ideal would be standing, second best will be seated either directly in front of Or if you wanted to get really fancy, you could create a situation and slightly tilted toward had to maintain kind This accomplishes a number of things. In addition to making you more alert, you also get away from You know, people are starting to look more like C's nowadays, the because we're constantly looking down. I do every once in a while, in public with it at eye level, that they're doing that, but at the same time, so we So this is another feature into your physical workspace. Again, whether or not you're throughout the day, try and Now with reference to posture, illustrating that when we are standing up, those same neurons in our brainstem, locus coeruleus neurons, things like norepinephrin and epinephrin, those neurons become active They become even more active when we are moving and we and cycling at your desk and But when you sit, they and when you lie down and to get your feet up above your waist or your head tilted back, and neurons in your brain and indeed putting you to sleep, start increasing their level of firing. It's a really beautiful system. So beautiful, in fact, that show that as you adjust you actually get a sort in sleepiness and calmness and a dose-dependent And so, as we were all or even better, just stand up straight, and now I'm also telling that you're attending up in front of you, or ideally above you, those things combine to So you can think about into various aspects of or office work environment. But as I describe this, many what I'm thinking, which is in complete opposite direction to all of this neurobiologically Most of us are looking down or we are lying down, which is or we are positioning our but we really aren't an and so on and so forth. So as you can tell, we're the various things that you can do, first brightness in the room, and try and put yourself that lends itself or promotes alertness if indeed, you want to If your goal is to take a about 10 to 15 degrees above your head, maybe put a pillow underneath but that's not what we're we're talking about And I suppose you could also that I talked about earlier, when I was an undergraduate, I was a little bit I would drink coffee and I wasn't forced drinking but I actually wouldn't and use the bathroom except on a timer. So I think the longest ever It was kind of excruciating, that's necessarily a you can use slight, I mentioned of fluids in order to generate alertness. That was just me really trying as I could, I had a very, and it was just the only way If I was getting up every few I found it hard to re-engage in that work and maintain focus, which is what I just want I talked about this in but one thing that is and that you should is to sit down or stand on something, unless you're stressed about what you're looking at, or you're very, very excited by it. If you're very stressed about or a deadline, or you're very, you'll find that you can focus instantly just within a moment. And that's because of the like dopamine and norepinephrine that bring about our levels of alertness. However, most of us, including myself, will go to begin to work out doesn't quite engage at the that we would like right off the bat. I've timed this and other in a more rigorous way, mine but so I've timed it for myself, but there are studies And the data point to the fact that even at our most most people can only maintain for about three minutes, which is depressingly However, you can extend and I've talked about that but more importantly, when you of any kind, any kind about six minutes for you to you wouldn't expect yourself and do a PR lift or start or just head out the door A little walk jog at first, I mean, we expect that, that we need that. And yet we sort of expect to lock on and do work in a And that's just a ridiculous assumption, it's an unfair assumption, I should say. So assume that it will take in your work about and that will take some time to rev up and engage. The other things that I'm and screen positioning and posture, those will also help maximize your focus and will limit that ramp And I think what you'll your workspace, the time the latency, as we say to get into that It will especially start to limit distraction, we but things like Freedom, which is an app, a free app that allows out of the internet or turning But even if you're doing work your phone or the internet, as many of us including myself do, expect for you to focus. There's another aspect of our vision that's absolutely critical And that has to do with this of our visual pathways in that Those two major channels have names, although you don't have The first one is the so-called which is involved in looking in space and at high resolution or detail. And then there's the so-called that's involved in looking and at lower resolution. So you can think of the as kind of a high pixel density, think about your most modern smartphone, the recent smartphone with And think about the magnocellular system as being lower resolution, lower pixels, et cetera. You might ask, why would you want a system that's low resolution. Well, the low resolution like detecting motion and vice versa. Now, again, you don't have what you do have to remember, however, is that you're going to of alertness in your system. The maximum amount of ability is in that parvocellular mode, when you're bringing your what we call a vergence eye I've said this before on the virgin eye movement, no, As in convergence, bringing your eyes to a single point in space, of a visual window, actually shrinks at least perceptually. Whereas when you relax your you can do this now by trying and see without moving above, below you, as broadly as possible, maybe can dilate your gaze yourself, your body in You'll notice that your isn't nearly as high as when you do that vergence eye movement. Vergence eye movements for creating heightened And indeed they create of thinking, and that's because your brain follows your vision in terms of focus. When we say I can't focus, is an ability, and inability, excuse me, to not focus visually. Whereas when we are in we are in a state often Now we can also do this or to touch et cetera, but about the visual system. Now, in terms of workspace optimization, what this means is we never at a square or rectangle that is too far beyond our ears. How far is too far? Really, you want to try or I should say the invisible blinders so that whatever you're looking at falls within the region of visual that is present if you and put them right next to your eyes. Now this is a rough estimation, for those of you that I'm doing this now, I'm trying with blinders on, for those just imagine me looking cupped near my eyes. But if we are to, for that's very, very big and or even if we're standing back from it, it's going to be hard for within that screen space. So this is actually support or a tablet or a laptop. My laptop is about 15 inches in diameter, I think is the one that I Some of you like to use big monitors, make sure that whatever it if you want to remain focused, beyond where your eyes are, so just think blinders on a horse. And actually that's the reason so that they're not looking Horses, unlike humans don't they don't have a visual system that's organized in quite the same way, they mostly see in Panorama, And so those blinders are designed to keep their visual focus straight ahead, so they physically restrict it. Now, some people will to further restrict their visual focus. They will do things or wearing a hat for instance, to restrict their visual window. And indeed that works quite well, but as we'll talk about in a moment when you really restrict down to a very, very narrow that actually changes that you are best at processing. And we'll talk about that that's called the cathedral but for now here's the principle, make sure that whatever you're looking at is directly in front of too far out to the side. Once you get out to say six on side of your eyes, you by definition, you're dilating your gaze, it's completely subconscious, to maintain attention. Now, the caveat to this is at a narrow space, a narrow whether or not it's a book or a laptop or a tablet or a phone, not only create alertness, And they also can fatigue the called accommodation whereby literally has to change so that you can focus at that location. Accommodation's an incredible process, but it is as demanding that your eyes get tired for too long. So here's a principle extracted and neuroscience literature For every 45 minutes in which like a phone or a tablet or you want to get into for at least five minutes. And the way that I suggest to take a walk, ideally outside. We're going to talk about and about how that can maintain alertness throughout the day. So for every 45 minutes or of relaxing your eyes. This is something that's not often done, especially in today's homeschooling and where kids are going to school by Zoom and adults are working by Zoom, People are getting eye fatigue, Indeed, some people are getting migraines, they're having all sorts Much of that, if not all can be alleviated by this 45 to five rule. For every 45 minutes of get five minutes where you get outside, or if you have to be indoors Now some of you may be saying, well, that spits in the You've told us before that we I would still want you to take breaks within those 90 minutes, if of visual world, meaning at a and again, the best way to do just relax your eyes, look Looking at a horizon will this panoramic gaze, which and will allow you to go back The one thing you is to go outside and check your phone, because if you're outside or you're taking a break you're still in that So this is very, very important because vergence eye movements and you can exploit that to increase focus and attention when you want to relax the system, in which you've been in that focused mode, you want to get at least five If you can take a 15 Next, I'd like to talk about an aspect of workspace optimization whether or not our are better suited for or more abstract work. In fact, there's a way your work environment, or that you can place yourself that will allow abstract and indeed expansive thinking to emerge. There are other environments that will make your brain shift toward more detailed and Now, I just briefly want to again on the Habits episode but again, you don't in order to digest this information. It goes back to this issue of three phases within the circadian 24 hour cycle. Phase one, which as I mentioned after waking, phase two, nine and phase three 17 to Phase one, being ideal detailed types of work, for most people for creative, expansive thinking, There are some exceptions to that pattern because of the and hormones and so into the brain and body What I'm about to tell you your physical environment and nervous system into a for analytic or abstract What I'm about to describe is The cathedral effect has for many, many decades, but formally has been in which it seemed that people who were in high ceilinged environments, would shift their thinking and and creative lofty type thinking. So literally higher higher aspirations that this was observed in terms of the language that they use, but also the sorts of ideas And conversely, that people that were in lower ceilinged environments toward using a language literally more detailed, in their immediate space. Now this seems kind of but actually if we go of the neurobiology of the visual system and the way that our in different environments, it We don't have time to about evolutionary neurobiology, that our nervous system that are adapted to And indeed, we are able to or mountaintops or large into small environments and When we're outdoors in our vision tends to go long, magnocellular vision. Our hearing tends to extend long, even if we're having a we tend to also be attending somewhat to the screech of hawks or to the rush of a river. Whereas when we were in our vision, our hearing, and indeed even our physical movements Even if we can still extend our What do I mean by that? Let's say you're in an elevator, that's a small space compared This has been measured The size or the amplitude of actually scales down in even if they aren't completely their limbs all the way, we feel a natural impulse from our body, our torso with our limbs, this just feels like more And when I say appropriate, I don't mean in any kind of There's actually a reason and the so-called vestibular motor system are intimately linked. And I can just tell you briefly one way in which you can test and even use this, it's a little off topic from today's episode, but let's say you have a certain amount of flexibility. You can extend your arms off like wings is what I'm doing for those not watching off to your and you reach a maximum You can do a quick experiment you would bring your arms in for a moment. You can put them on or in front of you, and very far off into the So you actually, I'm going to do this now. It looks kind of silly, but moving my eyes without moving my head all the way to the right, all the way up all the way down, but especially all the way to the left, almost looking over my shoulder all the way to my right. And you will find that you further back subsequent to that. And that's not magic, it in which your cerebellum, and your eyes, your visual and the way in which some of the spindles and other aspects of the neuromuscular architecture 'cause your nerves control your muscles and allow those muscles So for those of you that lack flexibility, you can actually explore Now that's again, a bit of a that relates back to this The cathedral effect is a becomes more restricted smaller, more confined Or if the ceiling is higher, with a lot of distance and out to the sides, our thinking goes into and kind of loftier future This has actually been measured. There's a really nice paper, The authors are Joan Meyers-Levy and Rui, and then in parentheses Juliet Zhu, I'm going to assume The title of the paper is &quot;The &quot;The Effect of Priming &quot;on the Type of Processing People Use.&quot; And I won't go into all the details of this paper, but what's is they looked with and they have a fair number of subjects and everything about this The difference in cognitive processing, and abstract thinking and that people are able to that have a 10 foot ceiling which is not that much of a difference, there's just two foot difference there. And what they found whereby high ceilings, activate concepts related to abstraction, confinement related the kind of detailed thinking to sort of spreadsheet type Whereas abstract creative by these higher ceilings. And the way they analyze Again, we don't have time but they ask people to of related to particular And so people will talk baseball, golf, et cetera, and talk about some of the And then they had a kind of a challenge, a cognitive challenge different concepts along so that you depart from and you start thinking about or sports that involve a ball, et cetera. And so in the same conditions you can, except for the fact that the eight feet or 10 feet, what one finds is that the kinds of language that people start to create And there're actually two you're welcome to go look at it, so it wasn't just about sports, that were analyzed as well. And in the references of this paper, it also points to other examples which I find very interesting and someone who spends and indeed talking about we know that our cognition For low vision or blind their hearing and to But for most people who are sighted, as most people are cited, our cognition follows So what does this mean for Well, most of us have a fixed but you might have rooms in and rooms in which the ceiling is lower. If that were the case, I creative work during phase of your circadian cycle, that is, that you do that or maybe even outdoors out Cause the highest ceiling Whereas if you're going to I would suggest doing that But even if you're going of the day, for whatever or other sorts of in the lower ceiling environment. Now, if you are interested in controlling the height of your visual world, over the ceiling height of the there's another way to do that. And I used to observe this in the cafes, in and around Stanford, and the Bay area where you would see somebody would be in a hoodie, or other form of hat above their eyebrows, which of just lowering the ceiling and restricting your visual field. Not unlike blinders that that one would put on a horse by restricting their visual angle of focus to directly in front of beyond the sides of their head. So these cathedral effects, toward doing particular And again, the lower the ceiling or the lower your visual environment, the more that one tends to do detailed analytic work accurately. And the more that one's towards detailed sort of Whereas when the ceiling is the more that the brain and that we call cognitive processing, is related to abstract and indeed can pull from broader because really what abstract reasoning is, is it's taking the existing arranging them into novel ways. So you can think about playing a particular that's very analytic. There's a correct answer that or generate, whereas writing or generating new material of any kind, involves taking existing elements, right? You're not going to use committed to your memory or and arranging them in novel ways. So I think the cathedral And again, you don't need to or build a slanted roof and at one part of the day and at the other, although if that's that's great, most of us but it's very clear that of the visual environment that we're in, has a profound effect on the that we are able to engage. Now, I'd like to shift our attention to the auditory environment or the music in the room or the music or noise in the headphones, that there is a lot of quality that speaks to whether or not can enhance our cognition. And indeed the answer is yes, but there are very particular under very particular types of conditions that allow one to do that. First off, I want to say in the extent to which they can tolerate background noise for work. In fact, individuals will to the next, or even within the same day in the extent to which they I've experienced this in which I've been working at home and I felt like for whatever reason, I just could not engage in focus. And what worked to was to go to a cafe or to a library or someplace where there's more people moving about, maybe even music in the room. And we have to all be in more background noise, or when we want less background noise, there If you look across the literature complete silence or white noise or classical music or rock and roll, you can find results to as being more beneficial. However, as we'll talk about in a moment, there are a few types of and a few types of sounds the cognition and your ability to focus in your workspace that really seemed to work for all people. Let's talk about And here we're talking about because it actually can cause some pretty severe deficits in cognition. There's a paper first author, last author Alexander Francis. The, the title of the paper has to do with &quot;Psychophysiological &quot;heating, ventilation and &quot;during mentally demanding But basically what this paper in which workplace and mostly the humming of air or the humming of heaters, just incessant doesn't let mental fatigue and can vastly decrease cognitive performance. And if at the cognitive performance are Banbury &amp; Berry 2005, that supports the fact that when there's just the in the background or the hum of a heater and otherwise complete silence. There's also evidence which about hearing, which is white noise can cause some impairments in the development of the auditory system. Now I don't want parents to to white noise, as it as which I know many of you but it turns out that white white noise can cause some the representation of in the brain that can lead and even language processing. So we really have to be careful extended exposure to white noise, or kind of an air conditioning noise that's really at a high level. I wouldn't worry if it's in and turning on again, as the but really try and avoid or ventilation generating or because it really can cause damage to the auditory system it can impair cognitive performance and overall increase fatigue. I think we've all experienced and there's some ongoing background noise and all of a sudden it this enormous relief [sighs]. And the reason for this is has a parallel to our visual system. In our visual system, that triggers the activation which triggers activation a particular area of the hypothalamus, which generates alertness, even of cortisol, a stress hormone. In the auditory system, your auditory system hears that, even if you're not paying attention to it, if you're paying attention it's still registers. Those little hair cells, as are fluttering, the eardrum is beating and in concert to that sound frequency. And there's a brainstem mechanism and a kind of vigilant. So when you have a sound that's it shuts off, all of a sudden which is the turning off that are associated with which we talked about earlier, and norepinephrine and of alertness in your brain and body, those neurons then can turn off and you experience that as relaxation. So does that mean that we or pink noise or brown Certainly a lot of people do. In fact, if you want to pink noise and brown noise are, they're just different constellations of auditory frequencies Most of us think of white noise as the [shushing] on a screen, all the black and white like they call it visual has certain sound taken out, brown noise has others. It has different frequencies at higher amplitude, et cetera. You can look this stuff up on YouTube, if you want, you to just put brown noise. None of it sounds terrific, It's literally just in no particular arrangement. There is some evidence in the background or on or brown noise can facilitate cognition, but it's mainly through an increase in this overall alertness as a consequence of areas like locus coeruleus that are associated with autonomic arousal from that noise. So it's a lot like the And I think done in a restricted way, meaning not for hours and is waning and you're having you might put on some or pink noise and work that before you go to your and get some sunlight, There's really no reason that those particular patterns of noise are going to optimize So what I'd like to turn to of sounds that indeed have been shown in peer-reviewed studies of mental processing, because into your optimized workspace environment, through headphones or through speakers, whatever mechanism that you want, in order to get more out If you were to search for apps sounds that can improve thinking You're generally going One are called isochronic tones, these are tones usually So it might be a beep and of the same frequency, and then beep, forgive my terrible beeping. I don't know what good but contrast isochronic Monaural beats would be repetitive, almost percussive like beats [vocalizing], this kind of thing. You can find apps that can you can find also apps that deliver so-called binaural beats. You can also find YouTube that will deliver binaural beats. Binaural beats as the name suggests, are beats delivered to the two ears, one pattern of kind of and a different pattern, that's out of phase, delivered to the other ear. So on one ear you hear, [vocalizing] and in the other ear, And what happens is because of the way that the auditory system and generates what are called I'll explain what that means in a moment, interaural time between the two patterns by each of the two different that the brain entrains and generates particular So without going into a lot of detail, interaural time differences are the ways in which if you were to hear like I just snapped my of my right ear, that a before that's sound signal, in my left ear. So there's an interaural And there's a brainstem area and signals from the other ear converge, and there's literally a math that says this signal arrived And the difference between those signals is the interaural time difference. So if I were to snap my on my left and on my right and they arrive at the same time, the interaural time difference is zero. Whereas if one goes first on I'm terrible at snapping on but it was there, then there's a delay and the interaural time Okay, you get it, it's Binaural beats have been generated in ways that create a particular pattern of interaural time up to the rest of the brain and other areas of the brain and action into a particular rhythm. And some of the rhythms or that you may have heard or theta waves or gamma waves. Now I don't like to get too attached to particular brain waves as excellent for particular kinds of thinking. This is something that was really popular in the 90s and 2000s, when ways noninvasively with enabled people to identify are associated with alertness states. And some are other brainwaves that are kind of larger amplitudes, slow waves like delta waves are associated with kind of sleepiness or the way that the brain works are generated in different And those combine to give us a a sense of focus or give Nonetheless, if you look of binaural beats and you ask appear to be useful for people to enhance their brain function for we arrive at some very So we'll review what those are now. The frequency of binaural beats improved cognitive functioning improved reaction times seems to be 40 Hertz. Now, is it exactly 40 Hertz? We don't know, but if one wants to look up a great reference on this, C-O-L-Z-A-T-O et al 2017 so this is a direct quote. &quot;The present findings are in line &quot;with those of a recent &quot;faster reaction times in participants &quot;that listen to binaural And you can find many examples where binaural beats have about 40 Hertz or exactly 40 Hertz, in some cases, somehow brought the brain into for learning, for memory and including verbal recall, So for those of you that are there are a number of free apps out there. I'm not going to recommend just have to search for one One thing that you will find super-imposed binaural beats or that rather they superimpose onto the binaural beats, to be as effective as pure binaural beats. There has been an exploration of lower frequency binaural beats. So for instance, seven Hertz, done for 30 minutes with or rain sounds only that's been analyzed and believe it or not, that was significantly decreased. So that's a negative effect So the idea that binaural across the board, I think is wrong. It does appear that the higher as one moves up toward 40 Hertz are going to be the most beneficial. There are instances in which for instance, 15 Hertz binaural beats on a spatial verbal memory task. This is a complicated working memory task. Working memory is the kind of memory of remembering a phone number. So if I say for instance, 4932931, and you have to remember that number, keeping it online is what It's likely that you would forget that two or three days later. You can get improvements in working memory with 15 Hertz binaural beats, whereas the other control conditions, five Hertz and 10 Hertz binaural beats, all decreased accuracy of working memory. However, when I looked at the literature and I examined a number what I always seem to come plus or minus five Hertz for generating improvements in cognition, in math performance, and of memory recall, and even You might wonder, well, how can people do musical performance, they're Here's another surprise, that I looked at didn't to binaural beats while the memory task, or the they would do it There were instances in to binaural beats during the task. But if you decide to I recommend this 40 Hertz I don't recommend doing it I think there's a good reason to believe that you can attenuate to it. But if you are going to try You might try listening to binaural beats for about 30 minutes and then maybe eating lunch or taking a walk and then Because remember the moment to these binaural beats, the switch into a particular or brain waves, it takes some time. Neural circuits, again, The only neural circuits that are going be the ones that are like you step on a sharp object and you have to retract your limb, or you suddenly are stressed or you're suddenly delighted about a delightful text message. But when it comes to shifting toward optimizing work, it So again, 40 Hertz binaural many YouTube scripts out for binaural beats, hopefully zero cost, so you can access those without any need to shell out any money. If you find one that maybe put in the comment section, so other people can find it, YouTube would be the Feel free to put a link that will be wonderful. And again, you don't need at the exact same time although that could also Some of you out there might be craving a little bit more mechanism can influence things like This has actually been explored, this 40 Hertz binaural beats on what's called striatal dopamine. We have dopamine as a involved in many things in motivation, it's actually involved in Something that most people don't know, but it's involved in with Parkinson's who have a actually have movement deficits and so on. But striatal dopamine is closely related to motivation and focus. And 40 Hertz binaural striatal dopamine release. And this has actually by what we call spontaneous blink rate. Now I've been accused on and even on this podcast let's call it, or a minimal blinker. And as an important aside, that people that don't blink very much are sociopaths or lie. Also, you will hear that are sociopaths and are lying. There's absolutely no correlates with anything except alertness. Now longer blinks are As we get tired, we tend until we take the long I guess the long blink would be death, but the longish blink would be sleep. But it turns out that the more neurons that's occurring, And so it is associated with a resetting of our visual window, that's and there's a whole and time perception that we covered in the episode on time perception. But here's the bottom line 40 Hertz binaural beats spontaneous blink rates dopamine transmission in the in several locations in fact. And so the way in which set a rhythm in the brain, That dopamine release of motivation and focus, Well, dopamine is actually the substrate by which epinephrin is made. Dopamine, the molecule is adrenaline and they work dopamine and epinephrin in of movement or if we are doing work, of mental movement toward a goal. So that's a little bit of at least part of the reason can enhance our focus, and improve indeed learning and memory. Next I'd like to talk in optimizing our workspace sitting, lying down, treadmilling cycling, can enhance our Before we do that, I want of optimizing workspace that in your work or school life. Alas, there isn't a lot but I think they are worth mentioning. And I think I can offer in terms of how to navigate these in a way that would be beneficial to you. The first one is interruptions. If you go online and you ask about how to avoid okay, well, if you have kids or at work, you'll have a with recording is on or have a sign on the door that says bother only in a case of emergency or find to knock or don't knock at all. I've used a different I am somebody who works and focus, but of course, I have people coming by and And of course we have and people's opportunity to reach us. Interruptions really are deadly to our ability to generate focus. And it's not just about of say a minute or two when we were interrupted, it's also about the additional time to get those brain circuits to So it's really kind of a double whammy. Now, none of us, including or cruel or shut off from the world and oftentimes interruptions and people are providing that are essential to my to your workday in school day as well. But there's a simple method that I learned from my graduate advisor Again, no peer review data to support it, this is just my experience, who had immense powers of focus, had a very, very demanding life, extensive laboratory, et cetera. And what she would do was if I or if anyone came by and asked a question, she would acknowledge their presence, but would not shift her body toward them. So she purposely did not facing the door, which I think deadly to focus a way of So her computer was facing the wall, the door was perpendicular to that. And I would come by and She would say yes, so she but she wouldn't actually which told me that this conversation was not going to last very long. And no matter how long I she would never orient toward me, which generally kept these We had other designated meetings where we would be face-to-face. The other approach, which I confess colleagues of mine have used before, not necessarily at Stanford, no to everything that So if someone would knock on the door, they would just shout no through the door, or if someone said, can I They would say, no, or if someone said, I have something I want to tell And they would just continue doing this until the person went away. That was actually very effective, these were some of the most not always the kindest, but The other approach that I've seen and actually this is an approach who has been a guest on someone who's immensely so I'm constraining who he actually, despite having the option to have a very large in a workspace that was cleared out with a desk, So this violates everything or prior to this, everything bright light, et cetera, and would work, still works underneath a desk lamp in a completely dark This is my definition of hell. And yet is one of the most Also very, very hard to where his closet is, turns that he migrates from in So I mentioned these as kind of extremes, I think that most of us And that's why I mentioned like some social engagement and a welcome, or at least set our work environment in a way that welcomes interruption and we have to be very, Now in the digital realm, a few of the things that we to limit interruptions. One is use the program Freedom, the other would be to If you do need to be you're doing research of any kind, that's not going to be possible. Turning off one's phone, I've at times, put my phone on airplane I've locked it in a safe, I've done that, I'd left in the car outside. It all depends on one's which as you probably know, tends to kind of wax and wane. Sometimes we are better at avoiding these So if you find yourself in to reduce those distractions, you may need you to go I will say that a who was immensely productive and focused, had the habit of coming in each day, she would take her phone, I or off or not, and she would excuse me, in a drawer and would then go start doing experiments. We do experiments all day at 10 courses, engage in discussions and then would take her phone out at the end of the day and leave. And I don't think that with her immense productivity. I think the ability to untether is going to be the way in which many of us are either going to succeed or I'm somebody who engages on with the phone on a regular basis throughout but I do try and have in which it's either on airplane mode or it's completely When I'm in large swaths, with the phone on airplane mode or even a two or three hour not engaged with the phone at all. So is it better to sit when doing work, at least as it relates to focus and productivity? And the answer is both. There've been a number exploring what are called sit-stand desks. So these are desks that that makes standing the best practice, and then they can be lowered to a height that makes sitting the best practice or the easiest practice I should say. And it turns out that just and there's an enormous that have pointed the for five or six or seven have all sorts of issues cognition suffers, their number even digestion, there may even actually be some almost pressure and things of that sort, that one uses. But that people who stand are where many of those but that people that do and standing at the same or move from one desk to another, if they don't have a that's going to be best. The good news is it's very into a stand desk, you I've done this at times or stack books. There are also some pedestals and things that you can purchase in order to set your computer And of course there are and they're ones that have cranks, and there are all sorts of variations, both in terms of the they have motors as well as So they can go from very or books to create a standing desk, to very high cost in some cases. Now what's interesting, if you look at a scientific literature, is that people who by about half each day. So they took, let's say they were working for seven hours a day, three they decide to stand, that it matters that they in one about, or they divide that up into shorter bouts of a half an hour, and then sit for half an hour, et cetera, alternating back and forth effects on reduced neck and shoulder pain, increase in subjective health, vitality in a work-related environments. And perhaps most importantly, improvement in cognitive conditioning and the ability to embrace new tasks and cognitive performance. There are several studies they could explore this in more detail. I'll put a link to this as well. The article that I'm referring to is called &quot;Effects of a Workplace &quot;Sit-Stand Desk Intervention And I like this paper because focus on the effects of in trying to get people improve their posture, relieve neck pain, slumped over, et cetera, And this particular paper focuses also on the metrics of productivity, it has its own study and also references a number of important studies. What does this mean for you and me? Well, I've long used a standing desk or some variation thereof. What this means is that about half of our work time standing and about half of it sitting, but not all sitting or not all standing. If you had to do all one or the other, standing is going to What happens if we just stand? Well, that can also generate in terms of stabilization and fatigue. I have a good friend who's in the movement and physical rehabilitation his name is Kelly Starrett, in all those domains, and he always says, we weren't designed to sit all day, but we also weren't And I think that's true, at our species over tens or we would find that indeed, we It wasn't that we were That said, almost everybody, is not getting sufficient or movement throughout the day. And standing at one's desk can improve some of those health metrics, and again, can improve productivity, postural effects that that when we lie down, there in our brainstem, if you will of those brainstem circuits And indeed that circuits that involve a kind of a calming effect And as we become upright, but especially standing, for alertness kick on, which to remain focused. If you are going to start standing for half of your work time, you will notice that it You'll notice a lot of definitely want to wear comfortable shoes. Some people do this on a wooden floor, other people feel uncomfortable You have to figure out what works for you, but it can take a little After say after now, at a sit-stand desk, I find before I want to stand. And my standing bouts can to two hours, although two hours And then I catch myself off to the side. So again, the idea is to stand, but not be leaning on the desk, obviously, if you're there'll be some leaning involved, but that's what the literature support. There is also a literature physical movement under your or in fact, there are now bicycles that allow people to peddle. It's kind of a unicycle like thing, although not a unicycle under the desk, can be beneficial for So let's take a look The study that I'm referring Frod Sham, F-R-O-D This is a research article and the title of the article is, &quot;Does Type of Active Workstation Matter: &quot;A Randomized Comparison of &quot;Between Rest, Cycling and It's amazing that people do this science, I think it's great. Where else would we get peer-reviewed data on these types of questions? First things first, there were between cycling or treadmill workstations on any cognitive or typing outcomes. So it does not seem to are treadmilling under the desk. So these would be stationary treadmills, it's like a little conveyor Sometimes very slowly, walk more quickly, the New Yorkers probably treadmill quicker. The California's probably I'm in Californian, so I can but nonetheless, there were between that and a cycling and peddling as they type or as they're on phone calls, et cetera. So it really doesn't seem to matter. So if you're going to embrace as they're called, just decide It doesn't seem to matter Now, this study involved They had multiple sessions cognitive and typing tests, these tests have different to look those up if you like, so these are tasks of attention And then they either engaged and then there was a comparison. And the statistics were run, was there was a statistically in attention and cognitive control scores during any kind of active session, as opposed to just a mere seated session. So they compared seated to However, verbal memory during active sessions. So I'll repeat that, treadmilling or the cycling workstations, and cognitive control that were just seated and working. However, verbal memory scores got worse during the active sessions, there was no difference between cycling and treadmill workstations. So this is interesting, I that active workstations, are not only useful to and physical activity, but particularly when completing or tasks that require verbal memory recall. Now why verbal memory recall we don't know, it could be a little bit harder. It could be that there's and talking that seems although I'm not aware of that. I know a number of people at the same time, but if these treadmills or these cycling stations, to do that for highly verbal work, maybe more for mathematical or even creative work. But anything that involves verbal recall, sitting or standing seems to be the better option. And if you're wondering would enhance various we can speculate. I've talked before about this, forward movement through our typically, if we are outside, or we're out on a bicycle or running, or even on a motorcycle or in a car, we have what's called optic flow. And that optic flow is of the brain that are and indeed fear. This is the basis of things like EMDR, eye movement desensitization reprocessing. However, the mere act of our central pattern generators, the neurons in our brain that engage repetitive some of the areas of the with anxiety and vigilance. So one pure speculation, but nonetheless grounded speculation or cycling at a desk would reduce anxiety that would allow performance to improve. The other, what I think is that anytime we are in ambulation, we recruit the release of dopamine and things of that overall levels of alertness. I think that's the more likely explanation because it's hard to imagine could lead to these in a direct way. Whereas the subjects in on average experienced an increase in cognitive performance And this does not include any optic flow because it's stationary, the treadmill or the cycle is stationary. And so we can rule out that optic flow, and that points to the idea we recruit neuromodulators reticular activating system, the striatal system and so forth, that would place the We don't know, we only can perhaps it's gamma waves that would engage heightened Nonetheless, treadmilling, does improve cognition. So we've been discussing with the understanding that in the same place every day. What I've tried to do is give you a set of high potency tools that and cognition, and to place for particular kinds of work. Let's just review some of what we've covered today. First of all, in the that zero to nine hours after waking, you want bright lights, as bright as you can keep them without feeling uncomfortable, or certainly not without or elsewhere in your body. Bright lights will make for In addition, try and place, whatever it is that you're focusing on but not have it extend too far out to either side of your a fairly restricted visual And if you can, try and you're focusing on at least that it might take some and creativity in order to but that's going to be most beneficial. Try and avoid reclining, try and stand for at least That's a good goal, and to work up to that goal. In addition, if you're going to use sound as a stimulus for increasing trying to avoid exposure or brown noise for for more than an hour or so, to the auditory system. And at the very least, even though you might not notice it, it's kind of a background that is not going to serve you well. Rather, if you're going of sound frequencies consider not monaural beats, but done during a particular prior to that work about. I would not rely on binaural I think that could cause just because of the way the And actually you've the mere fact that you where there's an air conditioner, and then it stops, and but you weren't thinking about it tells you that your auditory system had kind of attenuated to it and yet it was still You were sensing it, we would There are other things that you can do to improve your workspace optimization such as standing for half the but if you're interested in this or you feel like it find a stationary treadmill I've never tried this before, given what I've read in and it's pretty compelling, like an interesting way and cognitive performance. I'm not sure that I would because I can't imagine just cycling and typing at the same like I actually can do the rub here, tell me pat your head kind of thing. But it still feels like a little bit of a sort of a cognitive for whatever reason, I do know how to ride you pick your preference. Some other things that you could do in order to improve your would be to consider the cathedral effect. If you're going to do analytic phase one or phase two, but really in any time of day, for which there is a correct answer, learning scales of music, trying to figure out the where there is indeed a solution. It could be an interpersonal then try and get into an environment with a relatively low ceiling. If you don't have access to you might consider using a or even just facing down, above your eyes, as you will, In other words, lower the of the cathedral effects In contrast, if you're interested creative work, you're writing new things, you're creating new things consider getting into a high ceiling or no ceiling environment, a brimmed hat or you're wearing a hoodie, maybe peel that back. Again, the data within the are there to support And if you'd like to start by all means, please do that. There's no reason why you couldn't do one or just two of these protocols. There's no reason why, for instance, you couldn't use binaural into a low ceiling environment a couple times a week, but you could also employ all of these. Now, of course, there are an that you can do to and productivity, and in previous episodes, in particular, in the episode on focus and there are supplements you can take that can increase dopamine, for instance. There are tools that you can for instance, focusing on one location for 30 to 60 seconds prior to entering a focused work about, this has been shown again and again. The work from Emily Bell, that's at NYU in the episode on focus, I where this has actually been tested and deployed in various schools. Having kids do a focus at a particular visual then doing some mathematics and seeing pretty impressive improvement even in people that hyperactivity disorder and so on. So there's no reason why you the sort of practical workspace that we talked about today with the kind of neural optimization in the episode on focus and the episode on motivation. By all means, layer those together, that's how you're going to that's how you're going to achieve the optimal creativity bouts. I do want to acknowledge people are showing up to this challenge of workspace optimization with different constraints. Some people have kids at home, there are a lot of interruption, Nonetheless, I hope that the information I was able to provide today will allow you to make subtle or maybe in your workspace environment. There's one other point related to that, that I did not cover and just briefly, which is that you have to always all the time. You can move from house to you can move from office to home, you can also move from different I have a brief anecdote about this. I used to attend a lot when a lot of scientific and there were always a few individuals that seem to stay engaged throughout these very long meetings. And we're talking seven, eight hour day, sometimes evening sessions, would go on for, four or These are long meetings vary tremendously, and I that manage to stay engaged and awake for the entire meeting. And I noticed that people high levels of alertness had a habit of moving to a different seat after each session, And I actually discussed this who was doing this, I are you always moving from place to place? And he said, yeah, if I and I just look from this of the screen, I find regardless of how that I start take on of draft, and indeed, sometimes can fall asleep. And so I started this practice of moving from space to space, or I should say, seat to seat within an auditorium And I think it works of the relationship driving the majority of our cognition, our visual system drives our thinking and that novel visual environments are going to lend themselves to heightened levels of alertness. Now, you don't want things or threatening or that they draw your attention But I think this is part of or moving to an office or a from an indoor environment or vice versa, maybe even within a single more heightened levels of productivity. I'd also like to acknowledge is most certainly not exhaustive for all the types of that one could create. For that reason, I'd any of your workspace optimization tools that you found useful. Please put those in the that would be the best place Also read through those, and I'll call about some of on the basis of your suggestions. If you're learning from, and please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero Also on YouTube, you can put comments in the comment section, You can make suggestions for future guests that you'd like us to host And in general, you can ask questions. We do eventually read all the comments and they do influence our future content. Please also subscribe And on Apple, you have the up to a five star review. Please also check out at the beginning of this podcast episode, that's the best way to We also have a Patreon, it's and there you can support the podcast at any level that you like. We also have an Instagram it's Huberman Lab, and and neuroscience related tools. Oftentimes that information with themes on the podcast, from themes and topics So please follow us on This episode, we didn't talk but on many previous episodes we talk about supplementation isn't required or great for everybody, some people do derive tremendous We talked about supplements for creativity, all sorts of things. If you'd like to see the you can go to Thorne, that's there, you can see the you can get 20% off those supplements. And if you navigate deeper through that portal, Thorne you can also get 20% off. Any of the other supplements The reason we partner with Thorne is because one of the major issues in the supplement industry is out there don't contain or they contain too much And the quality of the With Thorne supplements, in terms of the quality of the ingredients and the precision of the that they include in each product. Once again, thank you for about the science and on workspace optimization. I hope some, if not, all of the tools will be beneficial for you, and as always thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat music]