Hi, I'm Linda Moulton Howe. Since graduating from I produced documentaries I have investigated the world I am a truth hunter on this and the universe beyond. [THEME MUSIC] &gt;&gt; &quot;Truth of symbols discovered on in the Roswell and beyond to many other to US Army Sergeant and his wife on June 29, 2015. They were faced with an above their truck Across the middle were symbols, that I as nearly the same as symbols Penniston after midnight in Rendlesham Forest near So let's start now with a symbols with those in the The far left symbol on seems to match the that Staff Sergeant after he touched raised long, black, glassy, triangular That was in England, on December 26, 1980. Also, Sergeant Penniston's with the two black circles from the right on that has a ring around a Sergeant CJ and his wife what had happened. CJ recalculated his driving northwest again, on a different road. They finally checked into the north of Atlanta, at They slept in the on the road, headed The credit card sales in Paducah, Kentucky, shows in at 5:13 AM on June 30, 2015. Exhausted, everyone fell asleep. But Sergeant CJ found in their Motel 6 a ballpoint pen in one hand receipt in the other. CJ was staring at the back with squares and to the angry, perplexed letters. What the-- WTF. For our first recorded interview he asked that his voice because he is active Army, and So what you are about to hear Sergeant CJ talks that he had before becoming In the dream, light gray wearing dark lenses over than human eyes are warning Have you seen the symbols in &gt;&gt; Usually in my sleep. And that first time when I was in that hotel, I do and walking into the in my hotel, where she I literally woke up standing &gt;&gt; Have the symbols in addition to the squares Yeah, I've seen them &gt;&gt; Can you describe that dream? &gt;&gt; Yeah. It's dark all the way around, from right to left. They're slightly illuminated, &gt;&gt; Are you getting any saying in your dream? &gt;&gt; Something Council &gt;&gt; Council of five? And what are they saying? &gt;&gt; It's more of a warning. A preparation for something. An alert of what may or what is soon to come, or And they're doing what They're almost to the point and we're going to to where we need to to be able to stand a chance. &gt;&gt; Did you see any humanoids in any of your dreams? &gt;&gt; Yes, ma'am. &gt;&gt; Which type? &gt;&gt; Skin similar to ours, Elongated heads. Larger sockets for eyes. Larger eyes. In the dream that was one about where and I could see as a little bit of worry, but &gt;&gt; Did you get the telepathic aren't enough of us, Something is going going to be a big problem, and trying to help, and now don't have enough numbers &gt;&gt; Similar, perhaps, but I of what we're doing such as sending is not a safe thing to do. That we have technology but it's being behind locked doors and only to certain individuals, And allow all minds to get things done a &gt;&gt; Or what is going to happen? &gt;&gt; Whatever's going to happen I don't know what &gt;&gt; And if there is a That would imply that something &gt;&gt; I don't know. I know it's something that I know that at our current and how we're progressing And the way to fix that everyone here who's or not being told we need to allow outside to solve the issues to increase our and speed up our &gt;&gt; If that doesn't happen, &gt;&gt; i really don't have &gt;&gt; About the Council of Five, never heard about it When you Google ET or this is one of the websites alleged alien races E-M-E-R-T-H-E-R, EMERTHER. The website Alien Axioms as quote, &quot;one of of the Council of advanced on many levels than Allegedly, it was the EMERTHER or did meet with American to perhaps discuss The EMERTHER warned must be stopped, because tearing into other dimensions. The website states, without little is known about make up the Council of Five. These five races have been for a long time, and on this planet in 1944.&quot; Close quote. I asked Sergeant advanced intelligences would humans in binary code. And he replied, quote, like the yin and yang So 0's and 1's can be to communicate.&quot; Close quote. On Earth, this is what standard looks like. It starts with the is equivalent to the 8 space 0, 0, 0, 0. Capital letters are different Punctuation, such as each have their own 8 I had Sergeant CJ's squares Here is the first page emerge in ASCII binary code. Continuous protection 49 degrees, 27 minutes north, Expose hidden knowledge to ALL. &quot;ALL&quot; all caps. Citizens advancement imperative Beware of Orion 1350.3 5 and The question mark is Then the number 70, avoid, was an interpretation It said, avoid messages sent. Now, here is the for all of the Sergeant CJ rode on the back receipt in Paducah, Kentucky. Continuous protection 49 degrees, 27 minutes north, Expose hidden knowledge Advancement imperative Beware of Orion 1350.3 and Z Avoid messages sent. And now we know the question mark 70 In the distance from the which is 1,350 light And to the binary star that is 39.17 light Earlier references first turned up in the abduction in the White That was the first worldwide by gray alien beings. Betty Hill said one showed her a three that had connecting lines downloaded into Betty's mind some star systems in our Instead of solid were connected by dashed lines. The gray being that those were and that our sun and solar The last line, seems to relate to Sergeant about the danger of SETI signals without knowing That same warning came in 2015 and physicist Stephen and relying too much on Let's go back to the continuous protection 49 degrees, 27 minutes five minutes east. If that latitude supposed to be a where ETs from the are supposed to be that it turns out to be town Nuremberg was a significant city and the location of the trials after the war ended. But Nuremberg was also famous in 1561, when immense in an early dawn sky and blue, black, red, and orange Many people watched the aerial above a great black stationary for the entire Some UFOs crashed and burned. You can see it in the lower by German artist, Hans Glaser. So who, in that might have been As stated in the quote, &quot;continuous protection What could the battle be about? Now let's go deeper into by comparing of 0's and 1's to Sergeant on December 26, 1980. That was the night that Sergeant class John Burroughs were ordered into to investigate strange in the tall forest that ran along RAF That was then NATO's This is a page one of the by Sergeant Penniston symbols on the surface of triangular craft on The red vertical lines of eight 0's and 1's to translation for At the right is the And this is now Sergeant Exploration of humanity unclear. Then numbers, and This is page two of that translates to a And in all caps, the Page three translates in all Fourth coordinate continuous We don't know what that is. The word &quot;before.&quot; And then page five, after the word before, End of transmission. After those first five pages Penniston then released one This is Penniston's personally of his binary code adds six latitude and for Caracol, Belize, Sedona, of Giza, Egypt, the Tai Shan Qu, China, where the UFO, the temple of And then came these words. Eyes of your eyes-- in all caps. And then a repeat of the longitude that some interpret off the Western or Woodbridge, England. And in the last is repeated as all If you subtract Earth you get 6,120 years, for the time travelers. But Penniston, in that he was telepathed years in our future. But it can also be argued from a distant future were 365 day year cycles of time. It is also important that Sergeant any decimal placements in in his notebook. So each latitude be any one of 24 to an astronomer, Mike Reed, translations. For example, in the second when a decimal was tried in a Brasil option, it precisely of Woodbridge, not far from the The scientists felt strongly more sense because the if it's a time travel be emitting a continuous to whoever sent the black Astronomer Reed thought that than oceans. But the &quot;Ancient preferred the mythical since it fit with their Hy Brasil was supposed west of Ireland that only years. Adding to its mystery of people in boats who but they never could. However, astronomer Mike Reed center was so close to where craft, and its symbols sending the binary code into the town center Woodbridge Let's now compare CJ's binary translation on the first binary release from his The words that stand out humanity, advance Another warning about came in this binary code next to Crabwood Copse near Winchester Hampshire, The gray alien head is in front of BBC Winchester's And those 60 thin are thought to simulate an The implication seemed to be a reply to Earth TV signals. The start of the 2002 binary spiral of which equals the The entire ASCII of the Crabwood is &quot;beware the and their broken promises. Much pain, but still time. Believe--&quot; misspelled-- We oppose DECEPTION. All caps. Conduit closing,&quot; close quote. But was the warning depicted in the wheat Or was the warning about the The three star like objects resemble the famous So many people think there associated with the Then in early 2016 came a William Mills from World War II on, he worked building and learned that the United extraterrestrial allies and Earth from humanoid reptilians in the constellations A similar message was repeated 2015, near the airport of Turin, This city is where Jesus shroud is kept. Geneticist Horace Drew, tackled these very of binary code that included 128 between 16 triangular rays His binary translation is &quot;beware ET bearing gifts.&quot; Dr. Drew said the Turin, Italy, sweep pattern, quote, &quot;it we have to rotate the the outer wheel.&quot; Close quote. Even though the inner ring Dr. Drew thinks some of it event coming to Earth. He wonders if the Trojan horse humans from Orion warned about also in Sergeant 2015. And that was only seven days Sergeant CJ Did receive coming into his head at night. He said the squares and lines so it was hard for him He also could see that some and he managed to get some of down along with his comments From October 27 to the Sergeant CJ was waking I talked with his he would wake her and was often saying She told me near tears and she wanted it to stop. Sergeant CJ said he was on the dark shadings that he hadn't been able to copy too fast in his mind's But finally, he thought that in these new pages. Dr. Drew researched and he found this one at squares that are either clear 1's and 0's. Horace Drew applied it to On the far left of this graphic, are in red letters down the page, next to the first word, imminent. &quot;Imminent threat soon and civilizations. Expose and disband hidden Employ safe and controlled Progression imperative Embrace this--&quot; and there was And then the number 000, followed by brackets around which on Earth, ly is used by 12 light years. And then Ikes. Is that President Eisenhower? Ikes embedded citizens The word evolve, We don't understand it, but Then, royal EMERTHER, Warning, expose foreign Evolutionary advancement Bracket, the number 3, In the last paragraph EMERTHER, that on with an alien Council of Five. Then, on February found that he had added five without darkening any of them. Sergeant CJ e mailed and I was unsure if I It felt like it was not and I felt weird about it like I just did the figured it was probably They are the only ones I photos of my notebook. I could not darken because they were and I was having a hard There was much more keep up concentrating.&quot; Close quote. I sent them to Dr. back was a surprise. There were five clumps of Dr. Drew did know that the last meant Earth in ancient Sumerian. And the letters and rakbu, capital H I sent the five words to research specialist, of the Neo Assyrian period of Pennsylvania in the Museum Babylonian section, Here is his march The first two words look to be Akkadian The first could be the god it is difficult to say, since as it's known, Well, what is Nabu? Nabu was one of the three most Nabu was the keeper of Destiny, that He was son of of Enki-Ea of the Annunaki. Nabu's grandfather, Ea, is of humanity because Ea to be worker slaves for But the supreme god, Enlil, the humans made, apparently and we have to talk out loud. So Enlil wanted to destroy with a devastating flood. But Ea realized and got a friend that humanity could escape god Professor Jeffers continues, &quot;rakbu,&quot; would be the noun, rakabu, to ride, frequently The middle third be the word for in Southern Mesopotamia, phonetically. It should be larak, but the H is nonsensical and is puzzling. The fourth word, an infinitive of the or a second time,&quot; or even And the fifth word, ki, and would mean Close quote from the of Pennsylvania. The precise meaning of the remain unclear. Sergeant CJ is has any more telepathic might explain more about these But here is one more translated from binary so far. Some whistleblowers say that control and camouflaging matter with and the ability to fold to point transportation What happened in Rendlesham was apparently of great Intelligence Agency. The DIA had remote at Fort Meade, Maryland, next Agency, in 1986. There, remote viewer Lyn called DTS. Their goal was to research how could be used in their spy On July 14, 1986, one of Lyn's was the Rendlesham But only his monitor knew the by five card in a file Further, Lyn knew nothing that had occurred six to 28, 1980. But what Lyn did see seems to link to the repeating messages about But is the threat or could it be there is to both humans inhabit Earth, what called the Alien Presence. I interviewed Lyn about this 2008 CIA It is Lyn's original 1986 remote viewing session. None of us, including Lyn, knew and posted on the until John Burroughs, who at RAF Bentwaters, to a specific URL on the web. It was the CIA website, and of Lyn Buchanan's remote viewing Why was it put without anyone even telling him? &gt;&gt; As always, I got so I had no idea And I was viewing one I found out later-- And so that's the But during that, they had and then they had me and draw the floor plans, and everything else. What I got in the beginning was panel, just like you would The entire thing was empty. I went ahead and went But I went into the computer. I can read computers. And I went into the that it was autonomous. It wasn't controlled by anybody. It was autonomous. And it was looking Several things, in fact. And when it found it, when it was looking for, It would radio back to and then later, they would From the outside, it was shiny. [CHUCKLES] Of course. It seemed to me on the about five or six times Now, when I got on the if they were smaller, I would have shrunk to that, But on the inside, There were like that and this which was totally unmanned. Now, one of the things about is that your conscious mind Your subconscious mind can go And so you give to that time and that place. Now, what am I seeing here? Present-- and your says, oh, now I'm We were never officially During the entire officially tasked with those. And so we had done a found one that had any indicator I think it was just a drone that and drone, phone home. [LAUGHS] I have no idea. I don't know what but evidently it found &gt;&gt; Since 1979, I have in what is called the And what has emerged, is the repeating theme that an genetic material from Earth. Time machines, trying to survive in ET hybrids and clones, as the MJ-12 documents say. Whistleblowers have reported make their various spacecraft, technologies invisible This Naval ship fading is an October 2015 Northrop In addition to invisibility, the described as functioning with can neutralize gravity and holograms as camouflage the detect in the earth environment. The alien goal, they say, is from this planet's animal to create a large ongoing and hybridized body containers, that some people in refer to as the I first learned about the the first week of March of 1991. That's when I a large envelope that contained and several color drawings from She was born in 1946 and began with non humans She had decided it was after hearing a that I had given in California testimony about nonhuman with our planet. She was concerned as a person caught up in the and she was frightened about policy of hiding Her letter to me began, quote, are caught in the middle of that will one day prove significant to the Unfortunately, because voluntary interactions we have, in a sense, of both sides of the phenomena. On the one hand, we for their own purposes, On the other, if we speak from the public, possible harassment by government and If you could look directly you'd realize that every detail personal, no matter how mundane, It makes me wonder, of Ken and Barbie with by an emotionally with no sense of morality? Or are we pawns maybe of a dying race, for their own the cold blooded manipulation of we humans-- &quot;and the brutal Unless a person has been through they cannot comprehend how these and soul as easily as they of a body. They can scan details with such facility you feel as if you are an caught between their toes. In the blink of an devastate all personal and all prospects for A person's life is He or she is changed forever.&quot; Close quote. Linda Porter's words of abductees who have interacted insect humanoids. But some abductees think that which are actually trying to stability, that could help the In this 1995 Thanksgiving Linda Porter wrote, who live on the Earth, the destructive changes into a new species of being. I'm not referring right from Earth's future That was something because Earth of a dangerous technology Earth's future for the worse. Remember the mistake that about a while back? Some type of technology and the future travelers to change that. I don't know if it has been But that was an entire that was never meant to happen.&quot; Close quote. Linda Porter was the first in the human abduction interviewed who experienced in a tube of light and that felt like thousands all over their bodies. Linda said the light, too, is opened up inside of her bedroom. Quote, &quot;the beam is used from Earth to a craft and back. The tunnel is a from one dimension to another. Traveling through the It had something to do with of two differing dimensions.&quot; Close quote. Linda told me that in 1963, she was abducted from her by gray colored beings These gray beings seem to be Entities, or EBENs, that are documents as friendly and human evolution. Or perhaps they referenced in Sergeant Linda Porter was to transfer the from a dying man into a Linda could see in one of the The gray being told that the same soul transfer That gray being explained that she had rheumatic damaged her heart. The gray non human said it was entity continue in the that she had been to accomplish an Linda watched a golden, rise out of the top of and elongate in the air as to a row of body sized and from the bottom, and purple looking gas. Inside the tubes, was a cloned body but about 10 years younger. Linda Porter said there was containers, souls, and altered timelines. Linda said, quote, &quot;I was told man would be maybe Australia, and would Close quote. Linda thought that it was that the man's soul inside the same that his older, Linda thought that one of humans take tissue samples are as young as to have this tissue a new body for the abductee becomes necessary later on. Linda explained, can be stored indefinitely. The containers in the people in the tubes The containers in I sent you are They have a light must be on the person for before a body can be activated If the body is newly made, In the sketch with the the body on the far given to the dying man. I got the impression, do not like to do this Actually, I got the feeling to be doing this at all. But they seem to be and have no other recourse. They also seem to be from some higher form of life. Whatever the authority is that also prohibits the on this planet Earth. But the Greys are interfering. Whoever the authority evolved than they are and over many, many other Linda Porter said there is than we could ever Much of what we have the physical universe and the The EBEN doing the soul to her new cloned body in gave Linda Porter an overview from the EBEN's point of view. The universe, she said, is is why so many different exist in the same space. Each is on a Disrupt a world dimension to the carrier wave that it a whole inexistence that cannot or below it. Each frequency, besides dimension, also supports or and below it. Everything is interdependent. There are countless worlds' the same space without because of having their The octave frequency holds and causes it to exist with or even being aware This frequency acts as a in its place. You do anything to disrupt it, starts a deadly chain reaction. If the density of this collapse spacetime itself Atomic and hydrogen tear into other dimensions. And whatever the experiment in the United States is if successful, it will to such an extent that will not be able to be stopped or dimension. Linda Porter said hundreds of different alien what is happening, their own worlds at risk. Some, as I had mentioned are not supposed but are doing so anyway. What they are all trying to that will emanate should this government With all their technology, or their superiors just walk themselves? Why do they need us Something just doesn't I wonder if we are being lied to put over ideas that If there is an experiment, it will put us in competition they don't want to share. Maybe they're trying to scare A similar warning about a was described by another woman Judy Doraty. I met Judy in was producing the TV Harvest,&quot; about the worldwide Law enforcement told me as that they knew the perpetrators are creatures from of the bloodless surgical the surface of animals and the such as hearts and trachea, on the surface of Some whistleblowers say that control and camouflaging matter with and the ability to fold to point transportation We'll hear from some on the next &quot;Truth Hunter.&quot; This is Linda Moulton Howe. Please stay tuned to my Gaia about our universe, and the planet we live on. [MUSIC PLAYING]