If you boot up Super Mario 64, and walk past an iconic sound effect. "Woof woof". But listen to what happens when I walk past the game. It sounds totally different! Why do Chain Chomps sound so different in Well, that's not the only mystery! Did you know about the Smash Bros song that Or how about the Mario and Zelda songs hidden In this video we'll be exploring some of mysteries. I've really dug for this video, and by the songs the same way you did before! Let's explore some Nintendo music secrets! Number 1 Bros series. Now beginning in Smash Bros Brawl, each fighter the match on its head. These Final Smashes are often iconic - and Peach's. Now, the specifics of this move aren't really plays during this Peach's Final Smash. Does it sound familiar? Let me slow it wayyyyy down. Does it sound familiar now? For comparison, let me play you the Coin Heaven These two themes are exactly the same! In other words, Peach's Final Smash contains Mario game! And as a final note, in Smash Bros Ultimate, of Peach, which means she has similar attacks the same musical easter egg! Number 2 U. For the first time in the New Super Mario overworld - the grasslands lead right into And because of this, the game's composers adapts to each individual zone. Take a listen to how it changes... Except, there's one area that doesn't of the main story - the castle. Normally the final area of a Mario game would kind of Bowser-y music playing. But in New Super Mario Bros U, Bowser takes evil. And take a listen to the music that plays Sound familiar? It's an evil-sounding remix of Peach's Mario U's composers saw that Bowser took this evil sounding remix as a clever homage Number 3 maps, I want to touch on a subtle little easter map - that being New Super Mario Bros Wii, Now, this is the final world of the game - a to the background music from this map screen. Sound familiar? It's a pretty subtle reference, but compare Kart 64. There's actually only 5 notes in common the piano. And then, in the two Mario themes. So, this is a very subtle, but unmistakable most iconic melodies. Number 4 a Nintendo themed area inside Universal Studios Three years later, there's a second location in Florida and Singapore as well. And these Nintendo World theme parks are full Like, when you're queuing up to ride Mario on Mario Kart, you'll hear a remix of the course, character and kart type in Mario Kart But my favourite musical reference in the the bathroom - or toilet areas. Take a listen to this song which plays while Sound familiar? It's actually the Underwater theme from Using this water level soundtrack in a bathroom And the remix is like, 10 minutes long, too, the toilet, because you'll have a catchy Number 5 Now in this game, you the player must collect in order to power your spaceship and return And there are so many treasures to find in games combined - there's jigsaw puzzle pieces, video game consoles and... musical instruments. Now, there's 13 different musical instruments on - these 3 music boxes. You see, these music boxes hide a neat secret to your ship, the boxes start to play music Each of the three plays a different tune. The first one sounds like this... If you don't recognise that, it's the Pikmin Then, here's the second music box... That one plays Piranha Plant's Lullaby from And finally, we have the third and final music And this one plays the Song of Storms, from When I first noticed these music boxes and what a cool reference this really is! Number 6 series, and more specifically, this piece This is the title screen theme from Super Now, the game's soundtrack was written by is one of the greatest accomplishments of Because, if you didn't notice, the motif screen theme, even if it's a little hidden, Here it is in Mario Kart 64, played at a slower Then, Double Dash... Mario Kart DS... Mario Kart Wii... Mario Kart 7... ...and of course, Mario Kart 8. In fact, excluding the arcade Mario Kart games, series that do not include the iconic Mario Kart Tour, Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit, Super Circuit's title theme does actually theme, but it's not an exact match. Still, that's 7 out of 11 total games, all Soyo Oka composed way back in 1992. I imagine she must feel pretty pleased knowing thing players hear whenever they boot up a Number 7 Kart, there's another interesting story So, Super Mario Kart's sound team consisted and Taro Bando, the game's sound engineer. It was Bando who was in charge of taking Soyo the game. Plus, Bando was also in charge of all of the that the karts themselves make when players And this driving sound hides an interesting You see, halfway through Super Mario Kart's producer Shigeru Miyamoto to let them visit Nemu no Sato, located in Japan's Mie Prefecture. While they were there, the game's developers with the goal of improving their game's But sound programmer Taro Bando had another Normally in video games and movies, you don't happening. If a character is walking around in the snow, pit, for instance, because it often sounds record. That's called &quot;foley&quot;, and it's common But with the Mario Kart team visiting this was a golden opportunity for Taro Bando, who him on the trip. And according to composer Soyo Oka, "the an actual circuit, that job was left to Bando-san". And so, when you play Super Mario Kart, the with a synthesiser, and they're not foley that the game's developers rode around in. And that's a pretty cool, and pretty obscure Number 8 Oka, let's talk about another soundtrack So, I really love the original Pilotwings I think this game is so charming, and the And throughout a couple of songs on the game's Here it is isolated from the rest of the song. Now, I've long wondered where this vocal it herself? Is it from some old keyboard or synthesiser? It's a bit of a mystery - while hardworking every instrument from this soundtrack and from, that vocal sound alone has remained And so, I figured if one person on earth knows, with her! To be honest, I really was not expecting a about a soundtrack she composed over 30 years But to my shock, Soyo Oka did indeed respond of emails trying to get to the bottom of the However, it turns out this is as much a mystery Soyo Oka wasn't actually the person behind She told me: "Pilotwings was originally To be clear, that's Koji Kondo Soyo Oka's "I remember that Kondo-san was the one who So I'm sorry I don't remember the synthesiser She went on to explain that human voice-like So, in other words, Pilotwing's unique vocal or Koji Kondo's own voice - it came from Soyo Oka couldn't remember which synth exactly But though I listened to hundreds and hundreds and keyboards used in the Pilotwings and Super match. I did, however, find quite a few similar vocal So, I'm afraid that's as close as we're this mystery. Koji Kondo picked out a similar sound to one in the Pilotwings soundtrack. And when he left the project to go work on good use of this unique vocal instrument. Number 9 of my favourite Mario enemies. Now, if you didn't know, these enemies were creator Shigeru Miyamoto. When he was young, a huge, scary dog ran up Only the dog's chain prevented it from biting Year later, while working on Super Mario Bros. a new enemy - called WanWan, which is the When Mario 3 was translated into English, and the rest is history. Originally those Chain Chomps didn't make jump to 3D with Super Mario 64, all kinds for the first time, including the Chain Chomps. Now, I'm sure you're long familiar with sounds like this... I can't find exactly where this sound originates, But if you were a Japanese player of Super sound so familiar, because Chain Chomps sound release... It sounds less like a dog, and more like a Potentially, it could be a recording of Mario But why did Inagaki use a human voice instead Well, Nintendo themselves haven't talked I've come across is that the sound is supposed - "wan wan". Now, it certainly doesn't sound like Inagaki the words "wan wan" - it's more abstract amount of resemblance to the Japanese barking But of course, for international players who the original Chain Chomp sound is more than And while Japanese players know that this name &quot;Wan Wan&quot;, us international players wouldn't name "chain chomp". So, before the game's release in the US, out for a realistic sounding dog bark. It's a good example of how little cultural or "wan wan" can have interesting impacts And there we have it! Those are 9 of my favourite Nintendo music Thanks so much for watching this video, I If you want to support more videos like this, Patrons get all kinds of fun bonus content, the scenes updates, access to the Thomas Game me make videos like this! If you do want to help out, you can do it And as always, an extra special thanks to my $10 Patrons!