Just another ordinary afternoon for these two ordinary girls. Woah, that's not so ordinary! Olivia looks so pretty in that pic! Hmm, I wonder if I can take a beautiful picture like that! Don't forget to position the hair! Do you ever try to do normal things like this only to find that well, it's not so normal? Ooh, case and point! If you're like Emily here, you know that acting normal can often look like anything but. Yep, we're talking about the daily struggle of being normal versus being you. Greeting Friends Nothing like a little afternoon coffee talk with the girls, am I right? Oh, here comes my bestie, Emily! It's so good to see you, girl! For most people, greeting someone in one smooth move is totally normal. Okay, we've got some catching up to do. ME Hey guys, what's up? Ooh, wait, do I go left or right, uh -- sorry, um... Ugh! Why can greeting someone be the most awkward thing ever? You never know where to put your hands or your face. Why can't I just be like a normal person? Talking on the Phone Chit-chatting on the phone with your bestie is the best. Ah, what a great excuse to sit down, relax and catch up. ME. Have you ever gotten a phone call right when you were in the middle of doing something? Oh, hey Emily! What's up, girl? While normal people can just sit down and chill during a convo, others get a little, well, antsy. Without even realizing it, you're pacing back and forth across the house, mindlessly chatting away. Um, Olivia? You do realize you're still holding that jug of milk, right? It's like any sense of who or where you are goes right out the window. Oh, you gotta go? It's cool, I'll see you in class tomorrow! Huh? Why am I holding the milk? Okay, I'm definitely losing it. Homework Look at Olivia, hard at work! Lucky for her, focusing on tasks is easy. She always gets her homework done long before bedtime. And check out that flawless multi-tasking! I bet she's dotting every "I" and crossing ever "T" and then some. Someone's definitely acing that exam tomorrow. Me Some people are gifted with the ability to focus on work no matter what... And then there are people like this. From the moment you sit in that chair, each passing minute feels like an eternity. You can't help but let your mind wander. Hey, I wonder what I should make for dinner tonight. Or should I just order a pizza? Okay, this position is definitely helping my brain think more clearly. C'mon, Mr. Chicken, help me finish this math problem! The answer's clearly negative five, right? Or is it seven? Okay, time to do some highlighting! Hey, who needs a desk chair when you can just lie on the table? Woah, don't sniff that too hard, girl, you've still got lots of concentrating to do. Sleeping Ooh! It's 10 o'clock on the dot! Better get to bed. For most people, getting bed at a reasonable hour is the norm. And you bet the second their head hits that pillow, it's right off to dream-town. Emily's face is washed, her phone is put away, and she's ready to hit the hay. See? After just 15 minutes, she's out cold. Sweet dreams, Emily! Me For some people, heading to bed is smooth business. But for others, falling asleep isn't quite as easy as it seems. Ugh, I'm so tired, I'm gonna pass out so fast. Huh? What happened? Ugh, I was just asleep! Why am I awake again! Were those footsteps? Is someone in the house? Oh god! Maybe if I meditate I'll be able to calm down and finally get some sleep. Okay, I should probably pray for sleep at this point. C'mon brain! Shut off so I can get some sleep! My alarms going off in just a couple hours! I wonder if I should try sleeping with my eyes open. Yeah, that's definitely not working. By the time 4 o'clock rolls around your bed becomes your mortal enemy. Why is this happening to me! I just want to sleep! Aw, it's okay Emily, don't cry! Raising Your Hand When you're in class, chances are, you're gonna have to raise your hand at some point. But you've gotta play it cool, you don't want to be too eager. You wouldn't want someone to mistake you for a teacher's pet, would you? Way to play it cool, Emily. Me But when you're in class, why is it that raising your hand feels so awkward? Geez, calm down, girl, it looks like you're washing windows over there! Aw man, everyone's gonna think you're a goody-goody raising your arms like that! Teacher! Over here! Pick me, c'mon! So awkward! Watching a TV Show There's nothing like curling up in bed with your favorite TV show after a long day. It's getting late, so maybe just one episode tonight, I can watch another episode tomorrow. Yes! It's starting! I've been waiting to watch this episode all day! Aw, I love that girl's hair, she's so cute. Man, I'm getting pretty sleepy, maybe I ought to get to bed. Ooh! It's already 11? I definitely should turn this off. Way to have will power, Olivia! Alright, off to sleep I go! I've got a big day tomorrow anyway. Nighty-night, Olivia! Me But for other people, watching Netflix in bed can be a slippery slope. Okay, I'm just going to watch one episode, I have to get up pretty early in the morning. And play! Man this show has so many levels! I can't look away! Hey, got enough snacks, there? Oh, so it looks like we're starting another episode, aren't we? Uh oh, you sure you should be eating all that sugar right before bed? Woah! Look how late it is! I'd better chug this diet soda so that I can stay awake for another episode. What?! Don't go in there!! Oh man, this show is stressing me out, I'd better eat some more. Okay, I've watched six episodes. I should probably go to sleep now. No! I can probably last through one more, right? Olivia has fallen victim to yet another all-night binger. Poor thing's gonna need a caffeine drip tomorrow! Eating Ice Cream Eating ice cream is a real treat on a warm day. And for normal people, it's a clean, mess-free snack. But you're not "normal" people, are you... You like to take a bit out of that ice cream like its a pig hunk of lasagna! Man, that's cold! But boy, does it taste fantastic! And what's a little mess? That's what napkins are for, aren't they? Geez, is this thing getting colder as I eat it? Getting Undressed A lot of people keep their homes nice and tidy, and no matter what it is, there's always a place for it. And this is where Emily's backpack lives when she's not using it. Tuck in those straps! And getting undressed after a long day is somewhat of a ritual. Each piece is handled with care -- you'd never just throw an expensive sweater on the floor, would you? You're not a barbarian, after all. Alright, up on the rack you go! Wow, so organized! Even the zipper is handled carefully as not to create any wrinkles. Nice and smooth, just the way it should be. And your dirty T-shirt is quickly replaced with a super clean, comfy one. Very nice! And you wouldn't dream of leaving your dirty clothes out like an animal. Each piece gets folded nicely and placed into a drawer. Wow, you really take that folding business seriously, Em! Well, if you want to keep you things nice, you've got to take good care of them, right? Every normal person knows that. Ooop! Don't forget about those jeans! Make sure to fold them the right way so that they fit in the drawer with your other pairs. There you go. See? They fit perfectly in there. Me But when you come home after a long day, keeping organized is the last thing on your mind. Ugh my head is stuck! I just gotta rip this thing off of me! Must. Get. Off. Losing. Oxygen! C'mon, get OFF ME! Phew, that was scary there, for a second! People like you usually like to take those pants off almost immediately -- let that belly breathe! Alright the shoes are off and we're ready to go. Honestly, why go through the effort of taking your pants off when you can just pull them down a little? For people like this, taking off your clothes is just part of the journey of getting to the couch. Volume up, please! There we go! Ah, being me doesn't seem so bad right now, that's for sure. Could relate to these hilarious scenarios? Unfortunately, you may relate to these bloopers even more! Check 'em out! Don't forget to share this video with your not-so-normal friends! And of course, subscribe to our YouTube page, 123Go! so that you'll be the first to see our fabulous videos. Until next time!