Harlem, New York City. February 21, 1965. It is 3:00 p.m. In the middle of a political meeting, A few minutes later, he is dead. He is 39 years old. For almost a year, from his former comrades On this day, they silenced the voice of freedom We declare our right on this Earth to be respected as a human being, in this society, which we intend to bring into existence Malcolm, to me, is the closest thing if you can understand. Malcolm redeemed Malcolm gave us our human-beingness back. The most important thing that Malcolm did is that he made us eradicate In order to enslave people they had to keep us afraid. Malcolm taught us. He said he isn't nothing but a white man. He isn't a tree, he isn't a mountain. He's just a white man If he farts, he stinks just like you. However, he has made an artificial world He said that day was over. May 21, 1964, The most controversial returns from a pilgrimage to Mecca. I am a Muslim, Islam is my religion. It's my intention among the Afro-American community because it's the only thing Do you feel that your apparent message is the real reason they're after you, because you're not hating I never did hate anybody hard. &quot;I never hated anybody hard.&quot; These few words in the mouth of Malcolm X The American press The priest of black pride However, he has plenty of reasons Born Malcolm Little in 1925, he grows up in a country In the North, the American dream ends In the South, apartheid is openly declared In America, they called it segregation. However, it was legal apartheid. Blacks in America were not allowed to shop We could not eat in the same restaurants, or the same air terminals. If an African American and a white American was coming down, the African American to let the white American go by. That was the protocol. That's ridiculous, that's sick, Malcolm X comes from a family of militants and soon discovers the prize My grandfather was threatened It was a white racist organization. He was hung and he broke the branch. They put him on train tracks Severed him but not completely. He wasn't dead so they shot him. When my grandmother claimed the insurance, they denied her She had to prove he was murdered. That was not going to happen She had a nervous breakdown. The state institutionalized her one being my father. Early in life, Malcolm is a rebel, A drug user and a burglar, he is sentenced to eight years in prison Once inside, he is drawn to a sectarian known as the Nation of Islam. A strange mix of Muslim religious ideas The leader, Elijah Muhammad, presents himself The kingdom of heaven is nigh and the white demon The black man, Mr. Muhammad taught that most It was things and Malcolm accepted He saw himself prophetically as Paul. He saw Mr. Muhammad as Jesus, and because of this, he acted with a strength, that an ordinary person could not use. Malcolm travels the country and developing the organization. Donnie Williams and Harold Hyman, recall the early days in Philadelphia. This is the house he lived in We met him at the train station We brought him from the train station, This is where he stayed. Malcolm, when it came very seldom that he didn't use of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. He was really dedicated He was really dedicated to making To uplift the African Americans. Bringing the Honorable Elijah Muhammad The Honorable Elijah Muhammad's son -That's correct. That is correct. In the 1950s, the arrival among the various political effectively fronted by Martin Luther King. For Malcolm X, King and his clique who have sold out He wants to change the world. When Luther King speaks about nonviolence, When Luther King dreams of equality Malcolm X prones The spokesman for the Nation of Islam and the creation In the ghettos, The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is about to establish based upon brotherhood and peace. The white man His history on this Earth has proven that. Nowhere in history The only time is when he can use you, exploit you, oppress you, Since his own history to be an inhabitant or a citizen Honorable Elijah Muhammad that particular race from this Earth. I was in the civil rights organization and the first time we heard Malcolm speak, The first time I went to the mosque, I was so scared, I said the FBI, and arrest these people. I said I was going to go I'm so short. I was able to get through the crowd, His back was to me I said, Mr. X, I don't agree However, I thank you for it. There were some that I agreed with, but I didn't agree with most He looked at me with those amazing eyes that pierced your brain in such a way That pierced your eyes, your heart, White America soon puts a face Malcolm Little becomes Malcolm X. What is your real name? -Malcolm X. As far as I'm concerned, it is. Would you mind telling me My father didn't know his last name. He got his last name from his grandfather. His grandfather who got it from the slave master. The real names of our people You heard of Malcolm X every day and in the newspaper. Since he had mastered using the media, that says: &quot;We will not stand by quietly &quot;to be exercised upon our people.&quot; However, on May 19,1964, Malcolm X adopts a new standpoint. He embraces a new vision of the world far removed from the Nation of Islam. Gradually, my father saw true Islam. Asians, Europeans, He could sit with these people He made his Hajj He finally saw what the world was. It wasn't just a civil rights issue It was a human rights issue. However, is this a veritable revelation? Or as a wily tactician, Brother Malcolm was not an idiot. He knew that black people all by themselves. He knew that you needed in order to get certain things done. I don't believe to the point he would accept white people Alliances and trust, He returns to the USA Therefore, he seeks to develop his own movement. The organization After he had the press conference, and got an office space in Theresa Hotel. The office space He says in his press release that the Honorable was the best solution That was separation. That he was going to work with whoever, He finds support from a number His aim is to unite against Western oppression. They say that the most powerful bloc These are the poor nations, yet they carry more weight than the nations who have all the money. Why? No matter how wealthy America is, You and I have to look at this The ballot is as powerful as the bullet. At least they're both important. If you don't use the ballot, We're at the new Audubon Ballroom. This is the Audubon ballroom This is the place Most times the meetings were on Sundays. There would be at least 500 to 600 people The energy was really exciting, and Muslim Mass Also, when he brought out people who was the leader His reputation soon extends Ironically, the isolated and independent Malcolm X for his enemies. Two months previously, When did things start to go bad When Ronald Stokes was killed. Pure and simple. April 27, 1962, Los Angeles. Ronald Stokes is a disciple He is killed during a police check. Shot down while his hands are in the air. The check is unlawful. The event causes a scandal at the time. Mr. Muhammad said this and wrote this. He said: &quot;You see these men, These are the fruits of Islam. If you kill one of them, you must die. You must be murdered, There are widespread fears True to his principles, Malcolm X visits the scene We do not endorse Martin Luther King's We don't turn the other cheek to anyone, and it should be made known when they know they're in the right, they have the right to retaliate with the help of our God. However, the Nation of Islam and discredits their own spokesman. Malcolm X advocating retaliation, For some, the timing is just right. A number of enemies about his growing popularity. He was teaching but if you ever he was weak and feeble. His speeches were pretty lame. He was sickly, manic Ergo, my father, charismatic, articulate. Stunning and handsome. He would excite women Some would even have orgasms I guess Malcolm could see that too. That's the kind of charisma that he had. Jealousy isn't the only reason. The Nation of Islam at that time and an inconsiderate love of money. Brothers and sisters, I only wanted you to see how righteous people value wealth. They don't value gold and silver like you. They take it Now, here is a whole mosque. Nothing but gold. The money that came from the rank they were happy to spend Good clothes, fancy clothes, Malcolm always talked about that, When the Honorable Elijah Muhammad and everyone thought the newspapers speculated that the logical successor would be Malcolm X. At that point, the family looked and were going to lose their cash cow. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad They did everything A simple pretext The assassination of President Kennedy, Elijah Muhammad forbids on Kennedy's assassination. The messenger is afraid of the black community who had supported Malcolm X pays no heed, and once again, A reporter asked him: &quot;What do you think Malcolm talked about this, that He said: &quot;The assassination was a case &quot;and chickens coming home &quot;Chickens coming home to roost Those were his exact words, I was there I called him and said Do you want them here He said don't put them out, This is how the white propaganda Their spin was he hates white people, That's not what he meant. What he meant was, all over the world colonizing, suppressing the indigenous people, creating wars, choosing who is getting aid, who isn't, and it comes back The Nation of Islam's response Two weeks later, Everybody thought Malcolm and then he'd come back in. Before the 90 days were up, the brothers started talking about He never was with the messenger. Yes, he ought to be killed. I said killed? No, I said that's unacceptable. I called and I finally reached He laughed, he said nobody would kill him, He said he had given 12 years I said well, it's escalating, The word is soon passed -This is it. Now, this is the first mosque. -This is the first mosque. Right, this became temple number 12. They started singing that Malcolm's name and I just couldn't see that. I said they just dropped him He did much of the work I didn't understand how Like he was a nothing. I said that was not right. I then knew it was time to leave what was going on. Things really started to happen, Hang up phone calls, I'm going to kill you This was before the house was bombed. The FBI and Secret Service The tension between Malcolm X's supporters Malcolm X has to counter attack. In June 1964, he launches his offensive. Elijah Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah, They're afraid that that I'm out of the Black Muslim movement, The real reason is that Elijah Muhammad, is the father of eight children Six different teenage girls The truth is that The girls had nothing to do I knew about those girls. There were rumors At least two of those girls Certainly, She was his fiance. Malcolm knew about those stories, However, the reason is because Malcolm He wanted a bastardy suit We were in Phoenix, Arizona, where one of them lived. The best I was able to do it was a Sunday. The best I was able to do that Mr. Muhammad and both the girls signed it. Elijah Muhammad entourage is outraged Their strategy is now clear. Malcolm X has to be silenced. When Uncle was in Los Angeles I can't remember, Malcolm was driving anywhere, trying to grab his car door and open it, They never shot. I've had it happen to us here in Boston when they thought We were cut off with two or three cars. They thought he was in the car. Fortunately, I had a shotgun. Their goal was to drive Malcolm crazy, because of this intense attachment and the fact that His mother was in a mental institution. By constantly frightening him or doing things that seemed like they hoped that he would snap. Malcolm X is now a wanted man. In August '64, during a visit to Cairo he is the victim of an attempted murder. His life is in danger. He's seeking allies. He's trying to stay alive. People are trying to kill him. He's poisoned in Cairo, for God's sake. People say to create and Islamic countries. They never could find the waiter Later, an account was He survived it, Whoever was behind this It is hard to imagine that such an operation so far from home. However, who else wanted Malcolm X dead? Six months later, another disturbing event February 9, 1965, he is refused entry into France. Were the French Were they informed of an impending attack Or did the prefect of police, of an African American agitator? In any case, the event raises and continues to fuel no end of conjecture When he came back to the United States several of us met him at Kennedy Airport. Riding back he said something very strange. He said: &quot;I've come to realize &quot;I found recently We said to him He pointed down south, I saw him for the last time, I was in near tears. I was in near tears. He told me to leave the country because you didn't know He was tremendously emotionally impacted to destroy our leaders. A plan to destroy black leaders. Since the split with the Nation of Islam, Malcolm X makes suggesting a more open attitude In so doing, he moves closer Martin Luther King. The coming together created nightmares for the FBI. J. Hoover, in 1965 or six, called The Black Messiah. Hoover says: &quot;Above all else,&quot; &quot;we must stop the rise &quot;who can unite Selma, Alabama, February 1965, Martin Luther King still very much prey Our campaign here in Selma is to do a very simple namely, to get Negroes the right to vote. I order you to disperse, for contempt of court. Shall we stand in prayer until the time by this sheriff, The operation is transformed into a riot. The Reverend himself is arrested. Once again, Malcolm X makes the news. He arrives in Selma, Alabama Malcolm goes to Coretta Scott King. He says: &quot;I am not here &quot;I'm here to provide &quot;I respect Dr. King &quot;that my role &quot;To frighten white America He and Dr. King I do know that Dr. King sent his lawyer to Malcolm's meetings before the UN for the charge of genocide Accusing the USA of genocide would be a catastrophe but Malcolm X Thanks to his relations the radical leader organizes Let me tell you what I think The United States, I don't know whether France was involved. There was this big thing and they sent troops into the Congo, who were being threatened as they always liked to say. Two African UN diplomats, because of the groundwork laid said if the United States to save these white nuns, then who's to say to militarily assist who were being killed? This was unheard of. February 14, 1965. At two o'clock in the morning, unidentified individuals throw A disturbing coincidence, perhaps. Suspicion immediately falls as for months the house belongs to them. He was really angry, and said some things Thinking that it was the Nation He had to come out of his home from the windows in his underwear. The investigation Particularly, as just one week later, It was quite obvious Being human, he felt it. He tried to do what he could. There was also the pressure, strain What he had to leave to them. They had stripped him They tried to strip him of everything. I remember asking him: &quot;Can you please just go My naivete asking him We all saw it was imminent. He said: &quot;The forces Mother was constantly, She used other terms. Leave now and come back later, That was what she was saying. My uncle said to my mom: &quot;Ella, what would I look like running?&quot; I am angry at him, All of us because we didn't do better It's true, I've learned better. Okay, he was right I admire him and Dr. King who had an impact These men knew. They did not run though. He cannot run, perhaps, but 40 years after his death, it is not the only decision are unable to explain. We were concerned about his own personal safety. Before that meeting, Malcolm listened very carefully When the discussion was over, Even after his house was bombed. He said no one is to be searched. He was trying to get away from this image when you came to anything that they had, He was trying to get away from that image to the organization. You think about it now in hindsight, Ted, the organization as a leader of the organization, The president of the United States That's hindsight. He said no, therefore it didn't happen. Malcolm will oftentimes say: He had a premonition that That he was going to die. I do not understand but as I mentioned, that was a mistake. Therefore, like every Sunday afternoon, It is February 21, 1965. Just before 3:00 p.m., Malcolm had a key word that he would say He would say: &quot;Make it plain.&quot; Whenever he said make it plain, that meant that or take the podium, and to speak. He said: &quot;Make it plain.&quot; Benjamin said: &quot;I now bring you a brother &quot;that he so much loves his people.&quot; &quot;I bring you Minister Malcolm X.&quot; I remember him coming up to the stage Some young men started sounding like there was some &quot;Get your hand out of my pocket.&quot; Something like that, Malcolm stopped, and leaned down, and raised a hand like this That's the last thing he said, He was looking at where Then the shotgun blast, boom! Malcolm X is hit in the chest. A few seconds later, The black leader's body He is hit 16 times When the shotgun blast went off, His hand came up like this He didn't move. When the shooting Then it stopped. That's when Malcolm toppled over. He fell over backwards There was a loud crash. That's when I said that A blow to his head like that Betty was sitting near the front there. He had not wanted her This one he allowed her and the girls. I just remember Attallah's face. The screaming red, I jumped up on the stage, one of our members named Mary Kochiyama, I saw all these holes in his body, I saw all of these holes in his body He was gasping for breath. I remember thinking to myself You could see them, Each one of those holes that you could put There was no blood. Yes, the blood had obviously drained I saw him exsanguinate, He turned from his color to white, Excuse me. After it quieted down, Betty was kneeling over him. She's a nurse. Other people were up there with her too. She was trying to give him mouth to mouth Then she said, &quot;Muriel, Taking advantage of the chaos, but one of Malcolm X's bodyguards and hits one of the three men in the leg. The crowd leap on the killer, He is saved He would later be identified a disciple of the Nation of Islam. I came and stood right by that tree The medical attendants from Medical Center They ran across the street and they would not come. We had to send people We had to put Malcolm on the stretcher. We brought him down, into the Medical Center right there. When we got them over there, they took one look at him They didn't bother opening him up or give him an electric shock He was completely dead Can you imagine and right across the street, to help a man who's been shot They didn't do it and we had to do it. That's something Some police came around in that photo, Absolutely nothing, proud of that. The irony is the two men were arrested, detained and released That makes no sense. I turned on the radio. This announcer is saying that Malcolm X had been shot and he was dead. The way he said it I screamed and I dropped my coffee. I fell on the floor and started to sob. If anyone had taught us about ourselves, about what it was to be black, from Malcolm, I got the whole idea The next day, February 22, Are Malcolm X's followers The streets of Harlem are alive to rumors, but the FBI seeking to spark off violence Conspiracy theories or police provocation? Questions are still being asked today With Hagan's arrest, the involvement of the Nation of Islam but a number of disturbing raise certain questions. The NYPD had ubiquitously at the Audubon Ballroom with at least 20 to 24 men However, on this day, there were only two police officers They were ordered to remain on the second floor. Physically as far away as possible where the event took place. The police obviously had been informed and they pushed back Furthermore, Malcolm X's bodyguard Thomas Hagan is stopped by the crowd, Herman Ferguson was outside This officer started and he was assisting a man and who was wearing a fez. He brought him to the car, opened the back door The man was bent over It was like he had a stomach wound. I heard this officer say let's get out of here. I expected the police to make a turn, and take this guy to that hospital Instead of doing that, and drove straight down 166th Street, I never saw that car again, Did the FBI facilitate Malcolm X's murder? The investigation, would lead to the arrest several weeks after the assassination. Norman Butler and Thomas Johnson, two hoodlums well known Everybody could have recognized because Johnson carry groceries once a month Literally, he was a chauffeur for Malcolm. His people in his entourage and stopped him at the door. He never would have gotten When I was questioned, &quot;Can you prove that Norman I said no, I cannot prove that and the only way to prove would to have been with them at some place which I cannot do I said what kind of question In his statement, Hagan swears To no effect. In 1966, the two men Hagan himself is given life. Eleven years later, he divulges both members of the Nation of Islam. To this day, neither of them A week after Malcolm X's murder, 22,000 people pay The whole of Harlem mourns their lost son. On February 27, 1965, his body is taken Fifteen hundred people follow the hearse, closely surveilled We see all these helicopters I think at the time, all the way up to the cemetery. They had snipers, people in the bushes, and police cars. My mother and I in the funeral car, My mother had a gun This is how we were. We figured somebody Aunt Betty didn't even know it. If anybody tried to do us, anything, I came here, I did not tell my mother. She was always afraid I never told her I was in the front with the coffin, when we carried it out It was a tremendously sad day for me. Up until that time, I remember Peter and I putting it in the car, everybody and hold on to it. As I'm putting it, I step back, what they wanted to feel, That was their time. For us, our time, Do you still have a desire of justice Absolutely, always. Absolutely, we know who did it. Some of the low level people I think After the Freedom Rights Act, We got copies with tons blacked out I would like those pages It's going to happen, I wouldn't waste my energy but do I wish them well, no. Forty years later, Malcolm X for African Americans, for women, for sexual and racial minorities For today as ever, transforming society means by any means necessary.