I just came home from a I was there for one week and I just traveled with The reason for that was that we flew they have the most annoying hand luggage Even though our ticket a carry-on sized item, they force you On the flight from Munich to Dublin, if you paid extra, but on the flight So, there was no way around I really did not want to do that, a personal-sized item only. The size requirements than for Ryanair, for example. They only allowed me to bring a bag I think that's 10 x 13 x 8''. So, very small. Then I decided that I can just very soft and squishy, so I can make it It's an 18-liter backpack, but I did not fill it up all the way. An extra challenge was the weather There were quite a few colder Before I left, I was not sure travel with a tiny backpack. In this video, I will talk I just quickly wanted to show you And the first things are my two jackets. I brought my rain jacket Both of them I'm going I'm also wearing my warm Converse and I have a sweater and a T-shirt here. Then I brought a It's a little bit waterproof, on warmer days, I brought two pairs of socks, two pairs at the moment, a long sleeve This is just one of those things so it keeps my laundry Here I have one pair of hiking pants And all those things I packed in from Eagle Creek. Now that's not too much clothes, so I have laundry detergent sheets my little homemade sink stopper, and The next things I brought is and also my Apple Watch. I brought my Tini2 flash light I brought my Anker Sleep Buds And it actually worked very well because with police and everything in the hallway here, I'm also brought Then, to keep me a little bit I brought my thin merino headband my beanie on colder days. I brought my thin merino gloves. That's the only thing I wish I at the end, it was quite cold here. I also have a neck gaiter to keep me warm. And also, my umbrella. I also brought a grocery bag. Here, I have a bag with Extra tissues, extra hairbands ... I am traveling with So that's my reading I also have my Grayl water purifier. I did not want to get too much work my thin Keys-To-Go keyboard. It's not the best to type, but to To charge all my things, I only I read that the hotels have plugs for USB bring a charger with me, but I brought only USB-A to be able to plug it in. And then here I have my toiletries And here is my EDC bag where I keep And that's pretty much So now let's talk about the toiletries and I packed everything into a clear bag The only thing I did was to reinforce because usually, longer than a few days, make it a little bit more durable. Let me just show you what I brought, in any particular order. The first thing I have here to remove stains from clothes. Since I'm traveling with a pair that I would get a stain on it. And of course, I needed it because and this thing was able to remove it. Here's a sample size of a shampoo. Some cold medicine because I have a This is for my hair. I just put it on my dry hair remove the frizz a little bit. I decided not to bring a conditioner Mascara. Cream that I use for my face, Sunscreen. Retinol serum Here I have some Q-tips and some floss. A little spray bottle I brought a toothbrush. As you can see, it's only my husband's travel toothbrush. More medicine. I have some antiperspirant Here I have the soap that Usually, I travel with a bigger bar, that I like very much for this case. But this time, since I only I decided to wrap them in after I used it in the first hotel. And now that we moved on to Belfast, this And last but not least, I have So let's talk about how it went and if I First off, no, I did not regret it. It was actually very nice to travel with Usually, I travel with around 30-32 liters But it was very nice to not I mean, I would probably not be able to do longer period of time, and especially if But for one week, it was totally doable. And moving around with this small bag And I especially enjoyed it There was a storm in Ireland and the So the train And I was so happy a bigger piece of luggage and just I think in the end, I had it on my lap Also, my system of layering I did not get really cold. The only thing I wish is because I only brought the thin gloves. And what I liked most about layering a thick, warm piece of clothing, which was thin and dried quickly. And so I was able to basically I kept changing those inner at night after I was done using them. That worked very nicely because I never had a big amount of stuff to wash. Also, it made it much easier if you don't have that much at once. I used the hangers and I tried or the heating would get closer In the second hotel, for example, The other thing that I wish I a second pair of long underpants. Mine dried fast enough and wear them again the next morning. Almost ... I had to dry them a little bit Hair dryer? Hairblower? My life would have been have brought the second pair. And the only other thing that annoyed me It is very soft, And since it was not full it flopped around a lot. I was traveling with which is a rather bulky bottle, I always had it in the bottle holder, and then the whole thing At the end of the day, I did not regret traveling only And for a short trip, like one week, at home, I think it's perfectly doable. On the other hand, it will not just for the simple fact that I usually and then I just need more gear. I need my gear to get my work done. I also want to have a little bit so I don't have to wash every day. Because if I would have made and I would have washed it, it would have I mean, I made a stain on it and that worked quite well, but it So for me, traveling permanently, Then I prefer to bring I feel on this trip, I really stripped plus, a few comfort items For example, my earbuds At the end of the day, It was a great trip and I did not the airlines or the TSA Thanks for watching and