Correction, Night 86 Today's video is sponsored by EcoFlow. Thank you for supporting the channel! Before we head out into the wild I would like to quickly install this awesome new addition. It's an EcoFlow 800W Alternator Charger. In this nicely packaged box we have a Solution to some of my problems with power. This device can charge my big Portable Power Station within 1-1.5 hours drive. This means I don't have to recharge my Portable Power Station at home and I can recharge my Portable Power Station to full when I am camping over longer period of time by simply driving. Awesome! 6-Step install is very simple. But it is still recommended to have installed by a professional! I have just the perfect spot on my molle for it. This setup provides reliable charging with Multi-layered Protection. Just feeding the solid thick cables from the cabin into the engine bay to connect them to a fuse and the car battery. 4x protection system provides safety for my vehicle and peace of mind. Reverse polarity protection, overcurrent protection, short circuit protection, and both overvoltage and under voltage protection. Even simpler from here. Just plug everything in and it's ready to go. The EcoFlow Delta 2 Portable Power Station is going to be the beating heart of todays trip. It can power our fridge, lights, induction cooking and a kettle with ease. Love the EcoFlow Mobile app. I loaded it directly onto my headunit. It shows me all the info about the Charger and the Portable Power Station. It's a 3 in 1 Charger so it offers 3 different modes: Charge Mode: Utilizes your car's alternator to power your portable storage on the go. Reverse Charge Mode: Allows your portable storage to rapidly charge your car or camper Portable Power Station, providing a quick power boost when you need it most. Battery Maintenance Mode: Gently nurtures your Portable Power Station with a smaller current, prolonging its lifespan and ensuring optimal performance. As you can see 800 watt are flowing into my Portable Power Station right now. That's awesome, normal cigarette lighter can charge up to 100 watt max as far I know. That's 8 times slower. I have been to this place before, but not this camp spot. There are some serious damaging winds in the forecast and I decided to go for a more sheltered spot. Let's get Ted hydrated after a 2 hour drive. There were a lot of fallen tree and even powerlines on the way here. The storm hit hard in some places. I was doubting if we can get to the camp at some point. Getting out another tarp. Going to use this abit as a wind break / extra shelter. Ted is on guard duty. Good boy! Brought an easy to setup / small tent today. Keeping it simple. A self inflatable double mattress with me today for a comfortable night under the rain. Ted is ready to chill after all the hard work supervising me. Adjusting few draining points to avoid water pooling. Later in the video you will find out that it didn't work well xD I am taking it easy today. I brought my trusty EcoFlow Delta 2 to power my needs. The induction cooker and the kettle require alot of power in a short time, but the EcoFlow Portable Power Station can handle it. As you can see the Portable Power Station is charged to 100%, it was on 36% when we left the house. Thanks to the Alternator Charger from EcoFlow it's back to full. We got plenty of USB A and USB C sockets here for powering lights and charging devices. In the back we got sockets for AC power. It's got an inbuilt powerful 1800W AC Output. No fears of overloading with high-wattage devices (up to 2200W) Should have no issues running an induction stove and kettle with it, even at the same time. With a unique 1-3kWh expandable capacity design, DELTA 2 offers a large 1024Wh The induction stove is drawing 1400 watts right now, no problem. Equipped with premium LFP batteries, the If you are interested in EcoFlow's green energy solutions head to my link in the description to visit, I will provide a discount code too. Delicious Salmon for me and Ted for lunch, yum! Smells so good, can't wait to dig in. Ted is so ready for his lunch, I hope he is not just going to swallow it. Some coffee, it's going to be a long relaxing night. I don't want to go to bed too early. The rain is getting heavier and heaver. My setup is not that great today, a lot of water pooling. Wow what is that twisting thing. Blasting huge wind directly at our cost line. Ok I need an extra layer of protection for the tent. Putting the tent fly on. It's going to get worse before it gets better. Nope nothing is going to stop me making a campfire. While my rain protection is not the best today, certainly I did well against the wind gusts. Tucked away nicely. Most of the firewood got abit wet, but It's ok, it's only wet on the surface. The fire is ramping up nicely. Time for a nice German Pils. Cheers! The campsite is starting to flood a little. Kelly has prepared some dinner for me too cook up on the fire. Spicy Pork Bulgogi. Yum! Wow it's really raining hard now. Shouldn't forgot, Kimchi. I love Kimchi! I am really enjoying it right now. Sheltered from the rain by a campfire with some nice food and beer. Perfect. It's time to call it a day, it's been a long day for me. Ted passed out a long time ago. Good morning, the sky cleared up abit, but it's temporary. More rain predicted today. The campsite is still in good shape xD I wasn't sure about that after a rainy night. Going to make some fresh coffee and take the little window of opportunity to pack up before it starts raining again. Let's enjoy this good coffee with good views. Some of you might remember this spot, we camped directly here before. My camera lens got all fogged up again. I could not film much more of the morning unfortunately. I need to bring the lens to camera repair as the weather seal is compromised. Hope you enjoyed this episode! See you at our next destination!