So I'm gonna f---ing bury you right here. But you'll be dead before Accurate. He says, &quot;All Back in those days, they didn't have DNA. They would identify My name is Mark Silverman, and I was involved in organized crime with the Italians and the Irish. Today we're going to be looking at some Irish mob movie scenes, and we're going to What, did you get your period? [yells] F---! One thing about bars, too, is you always know So you have a good idea or if there's something You can really find to infiltrate the bar or cause trouble. [screams] Are you still a cop? No! That's a great scene. I could tell you one thing. And it struck me right away when I saw the movie for the first time. The state police are not going to try to put one of their own inside of a crew, especially a dangerous crew. That's why they recruit informants or top-echelon informants, because the informants can walk And I have never really seen an undercover police A lot of people used to say, &quot;Well, I know that guy's a cop I would say, &quot;You don't what shoes to wear and what not to wear?&quot; Yeah, always, always looking I saw a cop when I came in here, when I was pulling into the parking lot. I didn't miss that. But these days I don't Guys on the street like and saying, &quot;Wow, that's pretty good.&quot; School's out. Thank you, Frank. Police corruption back was rampant. Whitey Bulger certainly that had the inside track whether they be local or state or federal. Other guys, I mean, you're not going to survive on the street if you don't have friends And back then, police didn't really make as and they were much more easily corrupted. As we moved on to the 2000s, I think that they got a You know, they wanted to They wanted to just put that which they claim to We're not even supposed this close to Worcester. This side of Worcester. Says who? Says him. Says Costello. This is very accurate. So, they're obviously nervous. It's all about territory. If you're dealing drugs, doing any type of business you are absolutely open to discipline. However that discipline is carried out, it depends on the severity of the action. Like, if you look at Medford, Somerville, Winter Hill, South Boston, you know who's who, and you know where you and where you shouldn't, because if you don't, someone will get your and you probably won't like it. But that's what happens. You know, he's got some and a good storyline, so, yeah, I'd say it's pretty accurate. I'd give it a 7. Listen, I just want to stop Producer: Is that the zip No it's Charlestown. Everybody has the Fighting Irish guy, usually on their calf. You know what I mean? And, you know, it's not really like a requirement or anything, I mean, and they should be. They're always going to where they come from. I think my guys can handle it without me. I wouldn't hire them without you. And I wouldn't hire you without them. You're a unit. Everybody in a crew has a role. Part of his crew is the bank-robbery crew, he's not going to put He's not going to do that. He's not going to hire They're going to do it together. They do it right, they do it well, they keep the money flowing. The Irish Mafia, I mean, they're loosely knit crews that don't necessarily follow the pyramid of the structure of power that the Italians have. You have your bookies, you you have your hijackers. Everybody has a role. But the earner, the guy that's filling the is the most important guy in that crew. Just out of respect, smooth things over, just take this for it. All right? Not going to cut it. You're going to do what I ask. Yeah, he don't want his money. He's much more valuable to him continuing to make money. Your earners, you will do anything to because they're hard to find. Believe me when I tell you. There's a lot of you put them on the street, they last about a week. It's like, in reality, too, it's the old-timers that I always respected the because these guys have more than the guys that are young. That's a 9. I think that's probably why because that seems kind of crazy. Kind of elaborate to do a hit. I didn't know that mob hit men It just seems like a to get your message across. Our feet may swiftly So we shall flow a river forth to Thee, and teeming with souls shall it ever be. I don't know a lot of Irish It's like a little bit Most of them were born here. They don't come over from Maybe I'm at 1 or 2. I'm not quite sure. It was long I'm giving it a 2. All right, that's enough. And just f---ing like So, a lot of people was part of the Winter Hill gang. He was at the beginning. I don't think I would of the Winter Hill gang. He was the leader of the Bulger group, or whatever you want to call it. He was running with the There was a power struggle, and they wanted to iron and the ultimate result of it You know, &quot;Why don't we Why don't we blend Southie and Winter Hill and make it all one crew?&quot; And that's what they did. But in 1978, all of a sudden this huge against the entire Winter Hill gang. I mean, guys like Whitey, Stevie, Howie, John Martorano. The who's who of the Irish Mafia in 1978. And it's funny because as you know, these guys or some of them went to All of a sudden, you hear the word when it came to Steve So an unindicted co-conspirator kind of raised a lot of antennas. And, again, that's where is that once he eliminates Winter Hill, he becomes the Bulger group. I told him everything. The IRA, Cahill, the whole bit. You'll be dead before Accurate. Accurate. He says to Stevie Flemmi, he says, &quot;All right, take his teeth out.&quot; You know, back in those so they would identify I think in the movie too, they refer to a dumping ground where they dumped a lot I remember when the state it was bad, really bad. I thought Depp was great. Everything down to the walk, to the eyes, you know, Whitey had these eyes that were grayish blue with, like, no emotion behind them. And I think you'll see a when they show the eyes, like, they'll focus They looked pretty good. I'm giving this one an 8. I thought this one was gritty. It was raw. It was pretty accurate. Ever since you came in the restaurant, he can't stop yakking. It's I always wore the Scally cap, and I was kind of a tracksuit type of guy. Yeah, a lot of Irish guys wear them. It's not a requirement. I just liked them. You're a good boy, Mopes. Don't think we don't remember favors. You're welcome at our place The Irish will work with that's willing to work with them. I mean, there was, like, a You know, you didn't have to be a certain religion or, There was Italians, there was Polish, there was Jewish. If you have talent, you can earn, they don't really care or what your religion is. You know, it's about money. You make the money, you can be as -- you know, you can be an atheist. I don't know. Maybe a 6, What the hell? Transferring them to Rikers. Sorry, baby. So, if a guy goes to jail, you know, I mean, he's risking that. He's risking losing his family. We got our money. You know, our envelopes. Little Jackie: You're welcome. There was less in it than what So? Guys go to jail 10, 12, 14 years, and they come out with nothing. And what they come out to is most times their friends and taken over the and never took care of them. Never went to their wife and said, &quot;Hey, here's a little package.&quot; You know? I mean, I think you They're supposed to, but don't expect it. You know, you see what this whole organized-crime thing has become. Disloyalty, no honor All everybody wants to do is look out for A No. 1. I left organized crime because I saw the direction I saw guys that lost their families and were betrayed by their best friends, and it was just too much. And I realized that I made the Little Jackie: How much Payments are down. The collections are Collections are always down. You know? I mean ... Most mob guys are great actors, and their best performances are when they're crying poor mouth. We know you did a score for $80,000, but you have no money. You know, you can't even buy In that scene, where she he's got the money, believe You know, something maybe about a 5. Yeah here's a few bucks for you. You're lucky getting that. No, don't sit down here. Get over there. Nah, come on, sit down. Hey, can you get him a drink? We need to talk. I think it's a great scene. I really do. I mean, they're just hanging It seemed like there were You know, if you're in a mob bar or a social club or whatever, sometimes they'll just and just whisper something in your ear or just say, you know, &quot;Come to the back room in 10 You two are out there on your We don't run around like a for you for 15 years, and what do we have to I liked the way that the you know, &quot;Look, you guys got to kick up,&quot; and these guys are standing their ground, saying, &quot;Look, we do the scores, man.&quot; You know, &quot;I got kids to feed. What are we, errand boys?&quot; And obviously if they've they're far from errand boys. Never tell how much money because, believe me, Like, I remember I specifically did one that was really, really big, and it was a windfall. And I had people coming As soon as someone hears they got their hand out. Most guys live score to score. If you hit a score, you want to take a little time off. You know, you got it. You got the money. We're not setting up IRAs. We're not diversifying We're not thinking about -- we're thinking about today, we're thinking about spending that money, because we know that once we run out, let's go out and do another one. You know, it's not a long-term business that you can retire from. That's why you see guys out there that are 75, 80 years old I'm going to go probably 8.5. I really liked this. Thanks for watching. And if you enjoyed the