If you go to Hanuman Ji's temple and repeatedly say, Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Won't even listen. Just say, once. Jai Siya Ram! Jai Siya Ram! Why is the youth getting so connected with the Sanatana Dharma? A flood called Ram has arrived. The thing that you're wearing. Obama also wears the same. Stay in the country, stay abroad. No matter how many bouncers or bodyguards you keep, The one who is protected by Hanuman Ji, who will harm him? Does Panchmukhi Hanuman mean something to you? Do you look at him from a different perspective? Because he is considered a 'Tantric God'. Since the last 500 years, Ram was in a tent. Today, he has gone to his home. When Sanatana asked for its rights, it became bad? Because of such things, India is different from the rest of the world. Bajrang Baan. Some people say Hanuman Ji is put under an oath in this. You read Hanuman Ashtak, what has been said in that? So that Sundarkand reaches more people. I believe that we should come to the basics and explain what Sundarkand is. Rasraj Ji Maharaj, is a Sundarkand reciter. That means nowadays in our country, there is a resurgence of Hinduism and Sanatana Dharma. Many people are getting to know Sanatana Dharma. They are knowing Shastras. And they are knowing devotion more deeply. If you have listened to his songs, if you have listened to his hymns, you will definitely know how this podcast is going to be. Completely religious, completely immersed in devotion. But if you are hearing the name of Rasraj Ji Maharaj for the first time, then today enjoy, a very amazing human being, know his heart today on TRS. This is Rasraj Ji Maharaj on TRS. [Music] [Music] [Music] Jai Shri Ram! Jai Bajrang Bali! Jai Siya Ram! Jai Hanuman Ji Maharaj! Sir, it is a very big day for me. You have helped me a lot. You have helped me a lot last year. Last year was probably the most difficult year of my life. From the perspective from the perspective I went through a lot of difficulties. But your music and Hanuman Ji and Ram Ji helped me a lot. So first, I want to thank you. I just want to say, it is his grace itself, that he wants to place his grace Because of his grace, A person is able to do all this. Sir, do you know how much of a cult following you have? Especially in the cities. Rasraj Ji Maharaj, Lo-Fi music. -Yes. How did you decide that you wanted to grow in Lo-Fi music? Actually, I have been singing Sundarkand since the beginning. With the grace of Shri Hanuman Ji, nationally, internationally, everyday somewhere or the other Sundarkand is sung. So simply a thought crossed my mind, that people in a short time want to listen to Sundarkand. So we recorded it through studio, in Raag Yaman. Sundarkand of about 54 minutes. We recorded that Sundarkand. So where the recording the director of that studio, converted it into Lo-Fi on his own. I didn't even know. And after about 3-4 months, when its Reels, on Insta, started getting very viral, so one day he called me and said, Maharaj Ji, do you know, it's yours. I said, all right. He showed that you read its comments. I read the comments. I saw its views. So then I told him that now in this same raag, on this same beat, in this same flow, in this same rhythm, in these same notes, now Hanuman Chalisa, then Bajrang Baan, and Hanuman Ashtak, Sankat Mochan, as we call it, we will record all of that. So after that, from that same day, that work started. And believe me, I was doing the Sundarkand program daily somewhere. So he said, sir, you do it now, Maharaj Ji. Bajrang Baan. I was just sitting in the studio. I went and recorded Bajrang Baan. That Bajrang Baan was shot. And when its Reels went viral, that &quot;Om Cham Cham Cham Chapal Chalanta&quot;, &quot;Om Hanu Hanu Hanu Hanumanta&quot;. It was an absolute craze. And so many calls, so many youths of today, everywhere, want this, want this. I'm getting goosebumps, sir. Bajrang Baan is amazing. And the grace of Shri Hanuman Ji is also amazing. At the beginning of this conversation, I wish you could sing a line or just say a mantra It is up to you. Whatever you want to say, is up to you, on to you. Of Bajrang Baan's, Hanuman Chalisa's, which one? -Whatever is in your heart, sir. Let's start with Hanuman Ji's Chalisa. Shree Guru Charan Saroj Raj Nij Man Mukur Sudhari Barnau Raghuvar Bimal Jasu Jo Dayaku Phal Chari Budhi Heen Tanu Janike Sumirow Pavan Kumar Bal Buddi Bidya Dehu Mohi Harahu Kalesa Vikar Jai Hanuman Gyan Guna Sagar Jai Kapis Tihun Lok Ujaagar Ramdoot Atulit Bal Dhamaa Anjani Putra Paavansut Naamaa Mahabeer Bikram Bajrangi Kumati Nivaar Sumati Ke Sangi Kanchan Baran Biraaj Subesa Kanan Kundal Kunchit Kesaa Haath Bajra Aur Dhvaja Birajai Kandhe Moonj Janeu Saajai Shankar Suvan Kesari Nandan Tej Pratap Maha Jag Bandan Vidyavaan Guni Ati Chatur Ram Kaj Karibe Ko Atur Prabhu Charitra Sunibe Ko Rasiya Ram Lakhan Sita Man Basiya Sukshma Roop Dhari Siyahin Dikhawa Bikat Roop Dhari Lank Jarawa Bhim Roop Dhari Asur Sanhare Ramchandra Ke Kaaj Savare Laye Sajivan Lakhan Jiyaye Shree Raghuvir Harshi Ur Laye Raghupati Kinhi Bahut Badaai Tum Mama Priya Bharat Sam Bhai Sahasa Badan Tumhro Yash Gavein Asa Kahi Shripati Kanth Lagaavein Sankadik Brahmadi Muneesa Narad Sarad Sahit Ahisaa Jam Kuber Digpal Jahan Te Kabi Kobid Kahin Sake Kanha Te Tum Upakar Sugrivahi Keenha Ram Milai Rajpad Deenha Tumharo Mantra Bibhishan Maana Lankeshwar Bhaye Sab Jag Jaana Jug Sahastra Jo Jan Par Bhaanu Leelyo Taahi Madhur Phal Jaanu Prabhu Mudrika Meli Mukha Maaheen Jaladhi Langhi Gaye Acharaj Naheen Durgam Kaaj Jagat Ke Jete Sugam Anugrah Tumhre Te Te Ram Duware Tum Raakhavare Hoat Na Aagya Bin Paisare Sab Sukh Lahen Tumhari Sarna Tum Rakchak Kaahu Ko Darnaa Aapan Tej Samharo Aapei Tinu Lok Hank Te Kanpai Bhoot Pisaach Nikat Nahi Avei Mahabir Jab Naam Sunavei Nassei Rog Hare Sab Peera Japat Nirantar Hanumat Beera Sankat Te Hanuman Chhudavei Man Kram Bachan Dhyan Jo Lavei Sab Par Ram Tapsvee Raja Tinke Kaj Sakal Tum Saja Aur Manorath Jo Koi Lave Soi Amit Jivan Phal Pave Charo Jug Partap Tumhara Hai Parsiddha Jagat Ujiyara Sadhu Sant Ke Tum Rakhvare Asur Nikandan Ram Dulare Ashta Siddhi Nau Nidhi Ke Data Asa Bar Din Janki Mata Ram Rasayan Tumhare Pasa Sada Raho Raghupati Ke Dasa Tumhre Bhajan Ramko Pavei Janam Janam Ke Dukh Bisravei Anta Kal Raghubar Pur Jai Jahan Janma Hari Bhakta Kahai Aur Devata Chitt Na Dharai Hanumat Sei Sarva Sukh Karai Sankat Kate Mitey Sab Peera Jo Sumirei Hanumat Balbeera Jai Jai Jai Hanuman Gosain Kripa Karahu Gurudev Ki Nain Jo Sat Bar Path Kar Koi Chutai Bandi Maha Sukh Hoi Jo Yah Padhe Hanuman Chalisa Hoy Siddhi Sakhi Gowrisa Tulsidas Sada Hari Chera Keeje Nath Hriday Mah Dera Shri Ram Jai Ram Jai Jai Ram Shri Ram Jai Ram Jai Jai Ram Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Thank you, sir. If Hanuman Chalisa is started now, it must be completed. I want to share some things with you. Which are not only my experiences The experiences of people around me are the same. The experiences of my team. My grandfather is 90 years old. We played your songs to him. Played Hanuman Chalisa, played Sundarkand. The peace that was seen on his face then, I haven't seen in years. This is the magic of your music. Along with that, I have a brother. Something is happening in his life, too. He has problems in his private life. He derived a lot of strength. I just want to say that every day, at the beginning of the day, before shooting the podcast, I either listen to Hanuman Chalisa or I listen to Bajrang Baan Lo-Fi or else Hanuman Ashtak. Nowadays I have started listening to Sundarkand. And on Sundarkand's 6-minute section, you travel to a different zone and start singing. Thank You. Thank You. Thank You. You don't know that what have you done for the whole generation. Through your music. I absolutely don't know if you have an idea, sir. What is your view on all these things. Because through your music, power is reaching to the hearts of people. Let me tell you one thing, first of all, talking with you, I am getting goosebumps. There is something different about you. The one who has so much faith only he has authority to this discussion. The story of God, the discussion of Hanuman Ji. Everyone is singing in this world. But the faith you have for this, it is very amazing and may it keep growing just like this . Secondly, you said for the youth. Whenever I sing Sundarkand, my aim happens to be, all the youth, all the new boys and girls, who are going to college, who are going to school, at that time, do the Sundarkand with so much dedication. First of all, our Sundarkand is not based on a filmy tune. Proper Indian classical music. Based on their raags. Like, just now, in front of you, I sang this entirely in Raag Yaman. There is no mixing in the raag. No extra note will be added, if it's entirely Yaman Raag, then it's Yaman Raag. After that when we sing the entire Sundarkand, we change the raag. What is Yaman Raag? Yaman Raag is the &quot;Shyam&quot; Raag. It is called Yaman Kalyan. Jab Deep Jale Aana Jab Shaam Dhale Aana Hariprasad Chaurasia Ji, the flutist, I was sitting with him in the Allahabad Kumbh, so when he was starting with his thing, he said, &quot;I am starting with Yaman &quot;, and let me tell you, this is the king of melodies. When we were doing Sundarkand, keep changing a lot of Raags. That time we feel, what to do now, to bring the same thing? Took it to sadness, took it to seriousness, then we need to create -Then, Yaman. This importance of raags is it even affects animals. Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan Sab used to say. That raags even affect animals. And today you see Indian classical-- People on film songs, are doing Sundarkand, Hanuman Chalisa. But this is the influence of a raag. It doesn't carry any of my qualities or the beat's quality? The biggest quality is that of a raag. Just one proper raag. As you are saying, something happens That raag, in some time, makes the atmosphere like itself. That raag settles in every particle and the man then gets lost in it. Then it's a little difficult Can't come out of it. Only he can come out, who understands the notes. The one who holds an instrument. Who has some instrument in his hand. Only he can come out. -Feel intoxicated. And the biggest thing is, as you are saying, all these youths, When the Sundarkand gets into a tune. Our Sundarkand plays in a rhythm. Like I just sang this. Now Sita ji is suffering, like Sita ji telling her separation to Hanuman ji. Hanuman ji put the ring. Kapi Kari Hirdai Vichar Deenha Mudrika Dari Tab Janu Asok Angar Deenha Harash Utkar Gaheyo Tab Dekhi Mudrika Manohar It has completely changed. Got satisfied as soon as seen. Where did this come from? Hanuman Ji jumped down. Who? Who? As soon as Hanuman Ji jumped down. Mother turned her face. Hanuman Ji said, what is this? First the invitation, then insult. First you said who is it, who is it. Who is narrating such a beautiful story? Who is narrating? Come down. Come down. Hanuman Ji was sitting on the tree and narrating the story. As soon as Hanuman Ji jumped down. Mother turned her face. Hanuman Ji said this is a big mess. What should I do? Then Hanuman Ji remembered Tulsidas Ji's Ayodhya Kaand. In Ayodhya Kaand Goswami Tulsidas Ji says, &quot;Siye Ban Basay Tat Ke Hi Bhati Chitra Likhit Kapi Dekh Darati&quot; Kaushalya Ji and Ram Ji are talking about going into exile. It was asked that time, Sita will go to the forest? Even if she sees the picture of a monkey hanging on the wall, she gets scared Mother was scared of monkeys. Hanuman Ji said, good heavens! This is what went wrong. Just as I went disguised as a Brahmin should have come in front of mother But I came as a monkey. What should I do now? He swore an oath, &quot;Ram Doot Mein Matu Janakai, Satya Sapath Karunanidhan ki, Yeh Mudrika Matu Me Ani, Dinhi Ram Tum Kahu Sahdani&quot;. The mother said, &quot;Nar Banar Sang Kahu Kase. Kahi Katha Bhai Sangati Jaise.&quot; Separation begins from here. We directly change the raag from here. &quot;Kapi Ke Bachan Saprem Suni Upja Man Biswas Jana Man Kram Bachan Yaha Kripasindhu Kar Da.&quot; &quot;Hari Jan Jaan Preet Ati Gadi Sajal Nayan Pulkavali Badi.&quot; &quot;Budat Birah Jaldhi Hanumanaa&quot; Bhayhu Tat Mo Kahun Jaljana.&quot; The ship of my life was sinking, Hanuman, if you had not come then who would have lifted it? This is working on the youth. There is a huge site in Delhi of Marghatwale Hanuman Ji . If ever you come, do visit it. An absolute amazing place In Chandni Chowk. When I do Sundarkand there, the whole youth stands up. And my goal at that time is just, how to keep them interested. For that I have to do, &quot;Hud, Hud, Hud, Hud, Hud, Hud, Kanak Bhudharaakaar Sareera Samar Bhayankar Atibal Bira&quot;. Have to do this too. Sita Man Bharos Tav Bhayaoo, Puni Laghu Roop Pavanasut Layaoo When she saw Hanuman Ji's dreadful form, As mother said, &quot;such big demons, what harm will these small monkeys do to them, son&quot;? Mother any doubt? Said, not doubt; supreme doubt. &quot;More Hriday Param Sandeha&quot; Hanuman Ji said, okay. Pressed one foot in Ashok Vatika. Hud, Hud, Hud, Hud Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram! &quot;Kanak Bhudharaakaar Sareera Samar Bhayankar Atibal Bira&quot;. Enough, enough, enough, enough. Mother said, he is no more visible, where has he vanished? &quot;Pad Patal Sis Aj Dhama&quot;. Only the feet are seen, the head is not visible. My mother said, enough son, get back to normal size, I have understood. You have not still understood mother. The further to that, glory of monkeys, glory of Ram Ji, which should be told. So that Sundarkand reaches more people. I believe that we should come to the basics and explain what Sundarkand is. You explain it. The people who have heard this word for the first time, Sundarkand, what is Sundarkand? There are many such people. See, today in India there would probably not be a person associated with Santana who does not know about Sundarkand. And those who don't know. There is no such atmosphere at home which is completely filled with negativity -and atheism... Until now. But what is today's scenario, soon as one gets up at home first of all, on Hanuman Chalisa. So, now, when I do Sundarkand, I tell everyone, to recite six couplets every day, of Sundarkand. Your recitation will be done in 10 days. So when I do Sundarkand, by the grace of Hanuman Ji, don't open the book. Without book. That means without seeing. So people ask, you do without seeing? As soon as they say, I say, no. Because while reciting, I think, it's going on without seeing. I immediately forget. Because scripture is never a subordinate to anyone. When I sat on your chair, I came here and said, &quot;Shri Vyasa Peetam Sharanam Prapadye&quot; That now, I'm sitting on this chair and the discussion the whole atmosphere of your place is very different. The first adoration in Navdha Bhakti, &quot;Shravanam&quot;. Ram Ji told about nine devotions. Prahlad Ji told &quot;Shravanam&quot; to Hiranyakashipu in Bhagwat. &quot;Sravanam, Keerthanam, Vishnu Smaranam, Paada Sevanam, Archanam, Vandanam, Daasyam, Sakhyam, Aatmanivedanam. This is how Ram ji described the nine devotions. The first devotion in that is &quot;Shravanam&quot;. There is a mild difference in that. &quot;Pratham Bhagti Santan Kar Sanga.&quot; When someone be found, then will the Satsang take place, then &quot;Shravan&quot; will begin? That means it's the same. So this atmosphere where I am sitting here, I feel that this is a pilgrimage. Because here... If only Ramayana is discussed. The mind is discussed. Hanuman Ji is discussed. Sundarkand is discussed. Not just that, anything good. Respected Morari Bapu ji. You must be knowing. He says that if you are sitting silently on the shore of a sea and listening to the sound of its waves, that too is a Satsang. Anywhere a good discussion is taking place in which people are not misled, no wrong message is sent to people. Firstly, never scare anyone that if you don't do this then this will happen, if you don't do this then this will happen. God never does harm to anyone. So this message that if I am listening then it is a Satsang. And I am sitting here, so I just-- I have come here with this purpose to tell a story for 2 hours. A story of God is being narrated. But will you get such an audience? &quot;Shrota Vakta Gyan Nidhi Ram Ke Gud&quot; Parvati is sitting alone There is not much crowd there. But the story there is Kailash Katha, that is amazing. The narration does not happen in a crowd. If there is one listener like you, it feels great. I feel grateful that through me, these things are happening. I'm not doing it myself, just... The one who keeps saying this is the only one in the world who has understood the play of God. Because we don't do anything. Gurudev Nanak too said, &quot;Karan Karavan Aape Aap Nam Rakhalya Tav&quot;. It's you who does what you do. When we walk in complete submission. Because we are not doing anything. Now I came to you, so who brought me? It's a simple matter, who brought? God put in your mind. I, me now-- On 22nd, for Chief Minister of Haryana, Khattar Ji, Manohar Lal Khattar ji, I am going to sing Sundarkand for him. On 22nd, for Yogi ji, Chief Minister for the UP Government, in Secunderabad, in the morning, in Faridabad. So, all this, wherever I go, I wonder who puts in their mind that call him, who is doing this? He is the one doing all this. Therefore, as Lord Shri Krishna-- In Gita, Arjun started saying, started thinking what should I do, what should I do? God said, come on, what will you do? &quot;Nimitta Matra Bhava Savya Sachin&quot; &quot;Divyam Dadami Te Chakshu&quot; Now I am giving you my divine eyes and then see. You are not doing this, just become the reason. I am the one who will do it. When we leave the strings of our intellect in the hands of God, it is very good of you that you always keep thinking that I am not doing, who is doing? Who is getting it done? Who keeps thinking this, that is &quot;Sharanam Prapadye&quot;. If I sit, me, me. You first sat here and prayed. And I also sat down and I too did a greet first. I heard this too from respected Morari Bapu. Because I keep going to Tulsi Awards at his place in Gujarat. He says that whatever stage whichever scripture you go to sing, first surrender yourself to it. That is, take refuge in it. We took refuge in this dais. Now sitting here, what to get you to say, and what to get me to say, this God knows. Tulsidas ji had sat down to write, Sitting above, being a parrot, Hanuman ji was getting it written. That go on writing, go on writing, go on writing. I want to know more about Sundarkand. You have talked about devotion, which I feel is a base of all these things. If there is no devotion in the heart, then there is no use of reciting, listening to the story, chanting mantras. First there should be devotion. There should be love for God. But specifically, suppose that all our audience members have love for Hanuman Ji, Ram Ji. After this, I know that everyone knows Hanuman Chalisa. Everyone listens to Hanuman Chalisa. But there is a different power in Sundarkand. I would like to ask you from where to start? Because even 13-year-old children listen to this podcast. So if they want to start with Sundarkand, do they just have to recite or have to even sing, chant? You tell. When I do Sundarkand, and there is a crowd of thousands sitting, then it is not necessary that everyone is reciting there. A lot of people listen to it. Sometimes more than recitation, we just like to listen with closed eyes. Even though we know it, we still may not say. To take pleasure, to enjoy it. So for Sundarkand, Tulsidas Ji himself is telling, what I will tell you? Look, when Sundarkand stops, any youth that listens to it, all those who are listening. In that, Tulsidas ji is now stopping Sundarkand, absolutely last. Then he is saying, Sakal Sumangal Dayak Raghunayak Gun Gaan Gun Gaan Gun Gaan What does Sundarkand do? &quot;Sakal Sumangal&quot; not &quot;mangal&quot; There is a possibility Every good thing is not beneficial. And not every benefit is auspicious. Similarly, not every auspiciousness is auspicious. But Sundarkand does not give auspiciousness. Ram ji is &quot;Mangal Bhavan Amangal Haari.&quot; Hanuman ji is &quot;Mangal Murti Maruti Nandan&quot;. Or in Mumbai, Ganpati Bappa is said as, &quot;Jaidev Jaidev Jai Mangal Murti.&quot; &quot;Maa Bhagwati Jag Janani Adishakti Jagdamba&quot;. Devi &quot;Sarva Mangala Mangalye.&quot; Tulsidas Ji's Ramcharitmanas. &quot;Mangal Karni Kalimal Harni.&quot; &quot;Tulsi Katha Ragunath Ki.&quot; Everything is Mangal. But what word was used in Sundarkand? &quot;Sakal&quot;, not &quot;Mangal Dayak&quot; &quot;Sumangal Dayak.&quot; Not &quot;Mangal,&quot; &quot;Sumangal.&quot; &quot;Raghunayak Gun Gaan.&quot; Tulsidas Ji wrote &quot;Raghunayak Gun Gaan.&quot; Someone said, Baba, You wrote the reservoir of the 7 Kandas, one came to Hanuman Ji's share. Even in that you wrote &quot;Raghunayak Gun Gaan.&quot; When Sundarkand is about Hanuman Ji, you should write &quot;Sakal Sumangal Dayak.&quot; &quot;Shri Hanumant Gun Gan.&quot; Tulsidas Ji said, I understand what you are saying. But understand my point also. Hanuman ji is such a supreme saint, he is such a supreme god, who &quot;Nij Gun Shravan Sunat Sakuchahi&quot;. Who hesitates I tell you, wow Ranveer Ji, you are-- And at that time, you-- Means, shrink If someone praises you, you swell up. Not just this much, there is more. But you praise Hanuman Ji. I keep saying when I start Sundarkand. Before that I sing, Shri Ram Chandra Kripalu Bhajman. So I say, if you go to Hanuman Ji's temple and repeatedly say, Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Jai Hanuman! Won't even listen. Just say, once. Jai Siya Ram! No matter how much crowd there is, even Pandit ji will be told to stop this guy for a while. Jai Siya Ram! Jai Siya Ram! Why? He spoke my mind. See there are many examples. If you praise Hanuman ji, he will become silent if you praise him. Like before the Sundarkand, the last couplet then Sundarkand is started. This is the law of the saints. Even today, wherever Sundarkand happens, then the last couplet of Kishkindha Kand. What is the starting there? Hanuman ji has forgotten First of all old Jamwant. &quot;Bali Bandhat Prabhu Badeu.&quot; &quot;So Tanu Barni Na Jae.&quot; &quot;Ubhay Ghari Mah Denhi Sat Pradachin Dhai.&quot; Sampati said &quot;Jo Naghai Sat Jojan Sagar.&quot; Only he who crosses this ocean I have seen. &quot;Mein Dekhav &quot;Bud Bhayav Now I am old, otherwise, I would have helped you. Now you see brother, I have told you the point. That she is sitting under the tree. All right reveal the identity that she is indeed Sita. She is Sita because she is chanting Everything is understood and confirmed. Who will go now? Jamwant raised his hands. What did he say? When Lord came in the form of Vaman, I circumambulated Now this is the past being discussed. Standing on the shores of the sea. What to do now? Lord what can you do, Jamwant Ji? Replied can't go now. Like our elders, you know, earlier carrying a 1-quintal sack of sugar I used to go to Shahdara from here. The way our people say. So what you do now? Not now. All the monkeys and bears, tell now, have to cross the ocean now. At that very moment, saw one coming out. Who, Angad, son of Bali. Move aside, move aside, move aside. &quot;Angad Kahai Jau Mai Para.&quot; Oh ho! All the brave men and monkeys said wow, wow, wow, &quot;Jai Ho Angad Maharaj Ki.&quot; Angad thought, I said it, there's a problem now. Angad said &quot;Jeye Sansaay Kuchho Phirti Bara&quot;. Can't come back. So brother, what is the use of you going if you can't come back? Now the monkeys just faked So Jamwant was the oldest and the experienced. The oldest of all. He realized they all are showing off. No one wants to do anything. No one wants to go, they are just messing around. Then Jamwant ji saw that a voice was coming from above. Ram! Ram! Ram! Ram! Ram! Looked up and saw, Shri Hanuman Ji was sitting. I have brought that form to give you today. Of Hanuman Ji meditating. Does everything but the man remains silent. Sitting silent. But the sound is hard continuously. The name of Ram is not stopping. Even when silent, even then Ram. Be it in heroism, even then, Jai Shri Ram. Even if someone is being hit with a fist, even then Ram. And if you meeting someone with love, even then Jai Siya Ram. And gaining heights in life, The spot where Hanuman ji stood and took the jump to go to Lanka, he went to such a height, as if a plane takes off. And then it goes and wobbles, takes control and balances itself. So what does Hanuman ji do as soon as he goes up? &quot;Baar Baar Raghubir Sambhari.&quot; That is, the more height the more you should chant the name of Ram. Keep increasing Ram-Ram that much. If you go there and lose your balance and forget the name of Ram, then you will land back in the same place from above. That's why by the grace of my Ram, everything is getting done. Yes. Of course. Have you heard this hymn? Of course. I am a big fan of yours. So I was telling you, Ram, Ram, Ram. &quot;Sada Ram Rameti Ramamrittante.&quot; The nature of Hanuman Ji. &quot;Sada Ramamananda Nishkandakandam Namantram Pibantam Hasantam Sujantam Hanumanta Ram Mantar Bhajantam Nitantam.&quot; Ram even when alone. Ram even when having fun. But see now. Want to go across the ocean. Ram ji has given a ring, even that is in his sacred thread. The ring which is to be given to Sita ji is also with him. And the same guy is chanting Ram. Jamwant saw and what he said? &quot;Pavan Tanay Bal Pavan Samana.&quot; Started to praise. As I was telling you, praise Hanuman ji, we have come there. &quot;Kahe Rich Pati Sun Hanumana Ka Chup Sad Rahe Ho Blawana.&quot; But he was just saying Ram, Ram, Ram. Felt he fell short in praising. Say more. &quot;Pawan Tanay Bal Pawan Samana.&quot; Your strength is such that it puts the strength of the wind to shame. &quot;Budhi Bibek Bigyan Nidhana.&quot; &quot;Jai Hanuman Gyan Guna Sagar.&quot; &quot;Gyani Naam Agraganya.&quot; Made no difference, stayed silent. Keep praising. &quot;Pawan Tanay Bal Pawan Samana.&quot; &quot;Budhi Bibek Bigyan Nidhana.&quot; Said again, &quot;Kavan So Kaj Kathin Jag Mahi.&quot; Tell me, what is the task in this world that you cannot do? &quot;Durgam Kaaj Jagat Ke Jete&quot; &quot;Kavan So Kaj Kathin Jag Mahi Jo Nahi Hoi Tat Tum Pahi.&quot; Silent even then. Hanuman Ji just doesn't want to listen, keep praising, keep doing as much as you want. &quot;Kavan So Kaj Kathin Jag Mahi Jo Nahi Hoi Tat Tum Pahi.&quot; Jamwant ji said again. &quot;Ram Kaj Lagi Tav Avtaara.&quot; He moved a bit. Well, had come to do this. &quot;Ram Kaj Lagi Tav Avtaara.&quot; Heard so much and did not stop chanting Ram, Ram. Jai Shri Ram. Jai Shri Ram. Jai Shri Ram. &quot;Suntahin Bhayu Parbatakara&quot; Imagine a golden body Because Hanuman Ji is &quot;Sawarna Shailavadhyam.&quot; The more the form increases, the more it seems like gold is increasing. Supremely rich. He is a God. So everything is of gold. So as soon as Hanuman ji stood &quot;Suntahin Bhayu Parbatakara.&quot; And &quot;Kanak Baran Tan Tej Biraja.&quot; &quot;Manahuan Apar Girinh Kar Raja.&quot; &quot;Sianhanad,&quot; Hanuman Ji has five faces. He is Panchmukhi. One of the faces is that of Narsingh. He brought up the Narsingh face. When and by which face to tell the story. Like there's a need to roar here. &quot;Sianhanad Kari Barahian Bara.&quot; And then he said, if you say, now, now. &quot;Lilahian Naghuan Jalanidhi Khara.&quot; I will leap across I will drink it all, if you tell me now. &quot;Lilahian Naghuan Jalanidhi Khara.&quot; &quot;Sahit Sahay Ravanhi Mari.&quot; By killing all the demons of Ravan. &quot;Sahit Sahay Ravanhi Mari.&quot; &quot;Anuan Ihaan Trikoot Upari.&quot; The Trikoot on which Lanka is based, uproot and bring it. Now Hanuman ji thinks, it is too much. Because Jamwant ji is watching, previously he was not waking up. Previously he was not waking up. Now that he has woken up, he has woken up so strongly. Now Hanuman ji also thought that this is no way Ram ji has sent me with some old man and you are insulting him. You should at least ask him. This is the difference between Hanuman ji and Ravan. Ravan had an old man called Malyavanta, his grandfather. &quot;Malyavanta Atijarat Nisachar.&quot; Hanuman Ji too had an old man. &quot;Jamwant Mantri Ati Budha.&quot; The difference is that Ravan never listened to an old man and Hanuman ji never ignored an old man. Ravan never asks before walking and Hanuman Ji never walks without asking. After creating so much chaos, in this much time it's just a straight take off. But then what did he say? &quot;Jamwant Mai Puchahu Tohi&quot; Jamwant is also thinking in his mind, you have told everything, what is left to ask? &quot;Jamwant Mai Puchahu Tohi Uchit Sikahvan Dijaou Moi.&quot; Now tell me what to do? Jamwant said, &quot;Bas Itna Karau Tat Tum Jayi Sitahi Dekhi Kahu Sudhi Aie.&quot; Go and listen, as you asking, just do so much, come back after seeing Sita. Now tell me, he asked Jamwant Ji, but did he listen? What did Jamwant Ji say? Come back after seeing Sita Ji. He killed the demons and came back. He also destroyed Ashok Vatika. He also burnt Lanka. When you didn't want to listen, why did you ask the old man? Hanuman ji-- I give this example these days, to the youth. Like there are youths and old people at home. Ask him, papa, shall I set up one more factory? Papa, shall I open one more studio. Papa, shall I expand the business Son, this is more than enough. What is the need? The old refused. The elders refused. You went and did that work. And when that work became huge, then one day make him sit in the car, come papa, and take him. See this, what is this son? It is yours. What you were forbidding, I did that Papa, see how much. Hey, what do we know We are old people. Whatever you did, great! Then the old pat on the back. Despite Jamwant ji's refusal, when Hanuman ji came after doing everything, then the same Jamwant Ji presents Hanuman ji in front of Ram ji, he says this, &quot;Naath Pavansut Keenhi Jo Karanee&quot;. Pandit Jasara Ji, sang this for half an hour. You should have this poetry in your life. Oh! Hanuman ji, the thing you did for me. &quot;Naath Pavansut Keenhi Jo Karanee Sahasahu Much Na Jaai So Baranee.&quot; Even with thousands of mouths, I, Ram Ji, cannot tell you what has he done and come. This is Shri Hanuman Ji. When silent so silent that I don't talk. And when he speaks, he speaks so much, Ravan asked 6 questions in Sundarkand. Lord where will this happen in 2 hours. Ravan asked 6 questions in Sundarkand. &quot;Kahe Lankesh Kavan Te Kisa. Kahi Ki Bal Ghalehi Ban Khisa. Ki Dho ShravanSunahi Nahi Mohi. Dekhau Ati Asank Sat Tohi. Mare Nisichar Kehi Apradha. Kahu Sat Tohi Pran Kai Badha&quot; Stayed Silent. Heard his six questions. And when he came to answering. He gave 18 answers &quot;Sun Ravan Brahmand Nikaya Pai Jasu Bal Birchit Maya.&quot; He started talking from here. So, if silent, he is absolutely silent. And when it comes to answering, he is answering only because, because he is Ravan's guru, in the form of Shiva, in the form of Lord Mahadev, Hanuman Ji is Guru. The Guru does not want his disciple's boat to sink. He says, get me to fold my hands. He even requested with folded hands. &quot;Vinti Karu Jori Kar Ravan&quot;. I am making you a humble request, you give back Sita. I am telling you go, &quot;Ram Charan Pankaj Ur Dharhu. Lanka Achal Raj Tum Karhu.&quot; If someone takes Lanka away from you, the guarantee is from my side. I give you the guarantee but at least let go off Sita. The teacher tries making him Who is a Guru like Hanuman ji? &quot;Jai Jai Hanuman Gosain Kripa Karo Gurudev.&quot; So, &quot;Sakal Sumangal Dayak Raghunayak Gun Gaan.&quot; What should Tulsidas Ji write &quot;Hanumat Gun Gaan.&quot; But what did he write? &quot;Raghunayak Gun Gaan.&quot; Tulsidas Ji says, if I write &quot;Hanumat Gun Gaan,&quot; no matter how much Sundarkand you read, no one will get any good results. Similar smartness is done See, &quot;Shri Guru Charan Saroj Raj Nij Man Mukur Sudhar.&quot; &quot;Barnau Raghuvar Bimal Jasu.&quot; &quot;Barnau Raghuvar.&quot; What should be written, &quot;Barnau Hanumat.&quot; Tulsidas ji says if you say once, &quot;Barnau Hanumat Bimal Jasu.&quot; Then keep asking, &quot;Sab Sukh Lahe Tumhari Sarna.&quot; Hanuman Ji says, keep asking. When we say, &quot;Barnau Raghuvar Bimal Jasu.&quot; Hanuman Ji says, okay, you are going to do the story of Ram Ji. Then he sits quietly. Then you praise him and he sits quietly. Great bro, great. You told the entire story of Ram. Come on, &quot;Sab Sukh Lahe Tumhari Sarna.&quot; You will get this too. &quot;Aur Manorath.&quot; Come on, make more wishes. Make any wish you want. I will fulfill it. &quot;Aur Manorath Jo Koi Lave.&quot; &quot;Soi Amit Jivan Phal Pave.&quot; To whom Ram ji gives, that even gets taken away. But to whom Hanuman ji gives, he remains immortal. But Ram Ji should be worshiped first. He should be worshiped. -This is a cheat code. -Which is called a hack. He will be only pleased when you do Ram, Ram. Is your understanding of Hanuman Ji changing with time? The work that you are doing. Today, you recited But every day I am sure that you at least chant Hanuman Chalisa for yourself. Is your understanding changing? Or have you understood it? A person will not understand But a feeling of his grace. To remain fearless. No matter who. You have understood my question. I could not speak in words. -But you've answered what I wanted to ask. A person who surrenders to Hanuman Ji, his positivity is to be seen. There is no work in the world that my baba will not do. &quot;Durgam Kaaj.&quot; You at least move forward. Because you just see, today in the world there are more temples Once Hanuman Ji's name is mentioned then be it anyone from Santana Dharma, can't say any negative word for Hanuman ji. Then he becomes silent. Jai Hanuman. It's supreme power. There's nothing above that. Supreme saint. &quot;Ajar Amar Gunanidhi Sut Hohu.&quot; &quot;Karahu Bahut Raghunaayak Chhohoo.&quot; How many blessings &quot;Ajar.&quot; You will not get old. Tell any young person today that you will never grow old. You will remain young like this this. He will become happy. But Hanuman Ji did not become happy. Then the mother said, okay, I gave him such a boon and told him that you will not grow old, even then he is not happy. Then mother said that come on. Ajar. Amar. &quot;You have become immortal.&quot; Hanuman ji is thinking in his mind, I am already immortal If I am the incarnation of Lord Mahadev then I am already immortal. Then mother said that he is neither happy with eternity or immortality. Then mother gave him the third boon. Gunn Nidhi. You will be a treasure of qualities. Asht Siddhi, Nav Nidhi. Which Asht Siddhis? Anima, Mahima, Garima, Laghima, Isathva, Vasithva, Prapthi, Praakaamya. The one who possesses And sweeps on Shankar's Kailash. Animadik siddhis. And he's the form of Lord Mahadev. And Hanuman Ji is not its keeper. He is the giver of Asht Siddhi, Nav Nidhi. Keep sharing what you have with others. Go on giving, go on giving, go on giving. Then you'll get so much. This is what is in Kali Yuga? &quot;Prakarin Dan Kari Kalyan.&quot; If we start tithing our earnings, start tithing. Keep sharing a tenth Keep giving wherever it is needed. Keep giving, keep giving. Then you don't have to do anything. Then how does he give it to you-- He will pick it up from anywhere and give. Will slap you and give, take it man! You are entitled to it. You give, take. But you too must have the ability to give. If you have an intention within, an intention of giving. If you have any intention of giving, and if your intention changes at the core, that whatever I have, I am getting it only to give. A lot of things start happening in life. Keep giving. But this is difficult for many people Intention wise. People want to give. But deep within the core, if your intention is to give, then life changes. The way I heard your voice my first thought was that, he has a connection with Hanuman Ji. That's why such a voice is coming out. So I want to ask you some questions of my own, about yourself. How was your childhood? What happened in your childhood that you formed such a strong connection? Because my answer according to me, my mother told me about Hanuman Chalisa for the first time. Because of her, I started reading it every day. At the age of 9-8 years. But I have seen a lot of pain according to me. I mean I had seen a lot of pain. And Hanuman Ji took away that pain. And I became very strong, mentally speaking, in my childhood itself. And I feel that due to that power, whatever happened in life, that initial phase, Hanuman Ji perhaps is my first Guru in childhood, I believe that. I would like to ask you What happened in your childhood That you formed such a strong connection? There will be more for you, now. The whole of India, the whole of the world. Will see, when the podcast will be out. When will more come out about Hanuman Ji? You don't need to explain this. You know it. I had seen a few of yours. You had mentioned in that, since childhood, I have been chanting Hanuman Chalisa. And what is a chant? The one who reads it. There is no need to meditate for Hanuman Chalisa. You just said there should be devotion within. May there not be. You should read it. It is not written who-- What is written? The one who reads it. Men, queers, women, animals, or plants, whoever reads it, Be it Hindu, Muslim, Christian, or Sikh. The one who reads Hanuman Chalisa, &quot;Hoye Siddhi.&quot; What is the guarantee? Tulsidas Ji says, it's not me taking the guarantee. Who is taking it? &quot;Sakhi Gaurisa.&quot; Who is &quot;Gaurisa?&quot; Gauri's God? Who? Lord Shiv. As they swear on the Gita in the court that I will not lie. In this way, Shankar Ji says that I keep my hand and say. I am saying it with the Ganga on my head. Whoever reads this Hanuman Chalisa he will attain success. Witness, I am the guarantor. You at least read. You leave it, I have to read with my heart, my body. Let me tell you, I read it while riding the Scooty. I have some home task, I'm riding the Scooty, going different places. As soon as I sit in the car, my first rule, is to recite Hanuman Chalisa. And this was when I had a shabby car in the beginning. I started from then. And today by the grace of Shri Hanuman Ji. I have a great car. Even then Hanuman Chalisa has to be recited soon as I take the seat. Then we started a daily Hanuman Chalisa on Facebook. Today, it reached 731. Which I did while coming in your car? I did it in your car. So today reached 731 Human Chalisas on Facebook. This counting is because, as many people listen to it. Be it 10 listening, 20 listening, 50 listening, 100 listening. There are even some people, who tell me Maharaj Ji, we play your Hanuman Chalisa and within that my worship gets completed. This, I wanted to say this. That your songs keep playing even in our studio. Gods, as many gods there are, what do they want? Why is the youth getting so connected with the Sanatana Dharma? There is something happening. In that world. A flood called Ram has arrived. I want to know why. There must be some reason that your song got recommended to me. Or through this podcast, people like you, people like Rajarshi Nandy, have met all these people. I'm learning. Even the world is learning But there definitely I think a lot about that reason and I have not got the answer yet. I had never heard your podcast before. -When I received the call. Although I may have seen you by face. But I didn't know much. Then I heard your podcast of Brahma Kumaris, Awesome, awesome. No words for them. Give them my regards. After that, I heard Sonu Nigam, sir. I mean, can anyone be so down to earth. But in everyone's life you saw Shri Hanuman ji connected somewhere or the other. The thing that you're wearing. Obama also wears the same. You'll find it here on him all the time. Stay in the country, stay abroad. No matter how many bouncers or bodyguards you keep, can't protect us everywhere. &quot;Tum Rakshak Kahu ko Darna.&quot; Who can harm the one So that's it, &quot;Abhay Hoi Jo Tumhe Daraye.&quot; God's devotion, Hanuman Ji's devotion keeps making a person fearless. He hears the mind of the other person, well, all right. Son, when I speak, then. What do you see when you are singing? Suppose you are singing Hanuman Chalisa, what do you see? This memory, at that time as I said. Jai Hanuman Gyan Guna Sagar So this thought Oh! Hanuman Ji, you are the supreme ocean of knowledge. Jai Kapish, you are the Lord of the monkeys. You are the king of the monkeys. What to have in mind at that time? All the monkeys are standing and you are their boss. &quot;Tihun Lok Ujagar.&quot; All the three worlds know. &quot;Ramdoot!&quot; even after all this, what? A messenger. Ramdoot!&quot; But &quot;Atulit Bal Dhama I will tell you one thing here. Perhaps it is in Aranya Kand. &quot;Atulit Bal Atulit Prabhutai. Mein Matimand Jan Nahi Paie.&quot; When Indra's son Jayant because Ram ji And helping her wear jewelry What jewelry in a forest? Some garland, some flower. Applying makeup with his own hands. Ram is not bland. Sri Krishna did everything, the whole trailer, the whole rehearsal has been done by Ram Ji. Then the movie just got shot. It began from there. &quot;Nij Kr Bhushan Ram Banaye.&quot; Saints give it two meanings. One is &quot;Nij Kr&quot; Means, by his own hands, Ram ji made jewelry. Be it a flower or a garland. One is &quot;Nij Kr&quot; even turned his arms into jewelry and as if hugged Sita ji. A husband and wife sitting alone, whether sitting under the sky under the open sky, not alone, not in some room, not in some hut. Sitting alone under the sky, Ram ji. And it seems as if he is hugging So what's the harm in that. Lakshman Ji has gone to cut wood. All alone. In this, Indira's son Jayant, &quot;Sita Charan Choch Hati Bhaga.&quot; Pecked at Sita Ji's feet and ran away. Ram Ji saw and picked up a blade of grass like this. &quot;Prerit Mantra Brahmasar Dhava.&quot; He left that. He went to his father's world, in Indralok. Went to Brahmalok. Went to Shivlok. Wen to everywhere. No one even told to sit. Indra said, quickly. Get moving quickly. Papa, keep aside papa. Look at the arrow following you. What was following, a blade of grass. &quot;Narad Dekha Bikal Jayanta. Laki Daya Komal Chit Santa.&quot; Hey brother! Apologize to the person you wronged. Sometimes we hurt you, apologize to others. Hurt the parents and seek forgiveness from God, &quot;Lord, please forgive me, I have made a mistake.&quot; Narad ji said, &quot;go to the one who you wronged.&quot; Came at the feet of Ram Ji and apologized. Ram ji said, son, let me have some fun with you. You pecked at the feet of my wife. &quot;Ek Nayan Karit Javavani.&quot; Damaged his one eye. That is, the one who disrupts whose character gets destroyed, whoever pecks at the life God turns him into one-eyed. So there he said, unmatched force. And who is Hanuman Ji. -&quot;Atulit Bal Dhama.&quot; Now it is very important Whatever is coming inside Hanuman ji is coming from Shri Ram only. If Hanuman Ji is, &quot;Ramdoot Atulit Bal Dhama.&quot; So my Ram whatever incomparable force, &quot;Atulit Bal Atulit Prabhutai. Mein Matimand Jan Nahi Paie.&quot; So, &quot;Ramdoot Atulit Bal Dhama.&quot; On! Hanuman ji, you are the abode And whose child is he? &quot;Anjani Putra.&quot; When a son is called by his mother's name, I swear you by your mother, hey, son of Anjani. Then he looks with more compassion. Man, you're calling out for my mother. You are taking my mother's name. Now, if I call you by your mother's name. This is what the title is given, if someone gives you. Blessed is your mother. Blessed is your mother womb. Blessed is your mother. &quot;Sun Janani Soi Sutu Badbhagi.&quot; &quot;Jo Pitu Matu Charan Anuragi.&quot; The mother is blessed, &quot;Janani Jane To Bhaktajan Ke Data Ke Sur.&quot; &quot;Nahi to Janani Banj Rahe Kahe Gavavat Noor.&quot; So he calls Hanuman ji, &quot;Anjani Putra.&quot; As Tulsidas Ji has written &quot;Anjaneya Mati Patalananam &quot;Parijat Tarumulvasinum Hey! Anjaneya. Hey! Anjaneya. Is called a lot in the South. Anjaneya, Anjaneya. Someone takes the mother's name, then &quot;Anjani Putra Pawansut Nama.&quot; I do yajna like this every day. My rule is to perform yajna daily. Now as I came here today, yajna could not be performed Left early. So now when I go home, then at night, I spend half an hour in yajna. Perform yajna daily, go to temple daily. Every person has to learn this. But what do we think at this time? Hey God is in the house, God is in the heart. Where there is no god? So brother, air is everywhere, but if air is to be supplied to a car, why do we have to go where the air is filled. Water is everywhere. Now if someone says to you, give me water. Dig the earth, drink water. We will have to bring water from a pot, in a glass and drink some of it. So what I mean to say is this, let us remember those things, what happens by this, like I perform yajna every day, so when I was performing yajna yesterday, I knew that today's yajna would not be possible. So I prayed for you also What did I pray for? First of all, I sang that Shloka. &quot;Lokabhiramam Ranrangdhiram.&quot; Who are you, &quot;Ranveeram.&quot; Who is Ram? &quot;Randheeram.&quot; One Ram is brave in battle. What is the meaning of your name? Brave in battle. But if we are sitting on this chair, then bravery is also required here and patience is also required here. &quot;Lokabhiramam Ranrangdhiram Rajivnetram Raghuvanshnatham.&quot; &quot;Karnunayroopam Karunakarantam Shriramchandram Sharanam Prapadye Swaha.&quot; Then I imagined this in my mind, the one I am going to, hey Shri Hanuman Ji-- I offered two quatrains for you. The first, &quot;Sab Sukh Lahe Tumhari Sarna.&quot; May Hanuman ji give you all the happiness in the world. &quot;Tum Rakshak.&quot; You stay in the country or live abroad Stay outside. Stay anywhere. Stay in Mumbai, stay in Delhi. Out of country. May Hanuman ji protect you. &quot;Tum Rakshak Kahu ko Darna Swaha.&quot; Which is the second quatrain That you got all the happiness but now you have some other aim too. Because your work You have to think about, what do I have to give next? What do I have to do next? We all work according to our mind. That I am now sitting on the stage, what do I have to give now, what do I have to serve. After that the second quatrain I offered for you, that whatever you wish. &quot;Aur Manorath Jo Koi Laave.&quot; &quot;Soi Amit Jivan Phal Pave Swaha.&quot; So I offered these two prayers This is a very big thing for me, sir. That you keep giving more good Which is called a medium. I'm just... -Medium? I'm just a medium. But I have a lot of gratitude Thank you, sir. I want to say thank you. This is not the end of the podcast. We are all brothers among ourselves. Your age, my age, we are all young. And at this time, we very much need our youth not to go astray in lust, in mating, in anger, in attachment, in greed, in ego. Just don't know what's happening, what to do, what not to do. If asked to take the name of Ram, is the age to take the name of Ram? So when will the age come? If you offer fruits to God, will you offer any stale fruit or offer some fresh fruit? So this youth is fresh. Offer it fresh, what in old age? Fluid flowing from here. The nose is flowing from here. Dirt is being discharged. Unable to be lifted by the body. Do this, do that. Then you'll worship Ram? Have to just follow the work This is what man Everyone knows that after doing so much, the day I die, it will all end. Everything I did is all over. That's why I have come to just do this. I have come to worship Ram. But I have some responsibilities I have many needs to live my life. If I am in the life of a human being then what am I giving to the world? To do all this, take shelter of the Supreme Power, And Hanuman ji means air. You can go without food for a few days. You can even go without water But if the doctor says that breathing has stopped working, air is not taken in. What will happen then? How long can you go without air? So whoever has air going inside him, People say, he has run out of air, the air has not gone out, Hanuman ji has gone out. Any person, be it a cat or a dog, anyone who is breathing, even a tree, wherever there is breath, it is Shri Hanuman ji. &quot;Vat Jatam Namami.&quot; &quot;Pavan Tanay Bal Pavan Samana.&quot; &quot;Pavan Tanay Sankat Haran.&quot; The son of Pavan, Havan son of Pavan. The doctor says once that it's nothing, unable to take a breath. It's okay, if no water intake. Lying in the ICU. Stopped food for two-four days, no problem. Air is not taken in. Pump up, speed up, press more. Put on the ventilator. Why to put? Air is not taken in. Air is not entering. Hanuman Ji is not entering. He has left, just that. Has Hanuman Ji Because you live in his faith all day. Suppose one day, with a lot of devotion rendered the Sundarkand then, what happens in the night. I'm roaming around with his grace. And the feeling of his grace is making me do everything. Sometimes the fun in waiting is not found in meeting. &quot;Sagun Upasak Moksh Na Lehi.&quot; &quot;Tinha Kahu Ram Bhagti Nij Dehin.&quot; I never want nor do I want to show off, I'll do this miracle, I'll do this. Now the matter has come before you, as you are saying-- I just sang the Hanuman Bahuk on YouTube. I also have my own channel in the name of Rasraj Ji Maharaj. It's a small channel. We all know sir. So sang the Hanuman Bahuk. So now in Dwarka, Delhi I was doing Sundarkand. Then later that guy started crying a lot. And then he said, I want to say something on the mic. I did the Sundarkand for his son, on his son's marriage. So now after the Sundarkand, he said that Maharaj ji, I was suffering from throat cancer. And I heard that you said that Hanuman Bahuk cures diseases. Because when Tulsidas ji suffered from serious illnesses, he wrote Hanuman Bahuk. So he said, while lying on my bed. And today is the day that my throat cancer is gone. This is his belief and I-- It is not a big deal. &quot;Nase Rog Hare Sab Pira.&quot; &quot;Japat nir-- Let me tell you, one more person had blood cancer. I went to him just like that in the Corona time, I told him that at your house-- He is very special to me. It is not right to take his name. My very-- I said, I will perform Sundarkand I went to his villa. Before performing Sundarkand, I did the yajna I recited there &quot;Nase Rog Hare Sab Pira.&quot; Keeping this is as the base, did the yajna with Hanuman Chalisa. Did the yajna with Ram Raksha Stotra which I do every day? After that, I again did Sundarkand. Have to utter the word &quot;I.&quot; That is, with the grace of Hanuman ji, we started Sundarkand. So kept water. Kept the water after that, gave him water to drink And I just said, Hanuman ji will bless you. After 15 days he became completely negative. Blood cancer was gone. Now if I say I did it, who did it? I wonder don't know what's going on. You just keep doing. Keep chanting, life is passing by every day. Worship Ram every moment. He is the one who does it. He is the medium. You said did Hanuman ji ever appear, Why should I lie and where is Hanuman ji not present, Now, when I left the airport, it was Hanuman Road. Did the Hanuman Road fall on the way? When I came here, Hanuman ji was around your neck. While sitting here there is Hanuman Ji. When I sit in my car, I do Hanuman Chalisa. All this with me, in the name of Ram. I have these beads kept inside this. Recite on this. I always have this bead bracelet. Whenever I get time, I do Ram, Ram, which is my Guru Mantra. I keep chanting that. What else to do? Hanuman Ji is with me. Hanuman Ji, Swami Ramakrishna Paramahamsa used to worship mother. Mother! Mother! Ami Durga Durga Durga Used to fall unconscious doing it and the mother used to appear, sometimes with food. So it is said that his breasts Breasts emerged on the chest, while worshiping mother. God starts descending. Not that they are spreading and doing all that. God doesn't descend like that. God appears on the face. Hanuman ji's devotee's face starts speaking. -Strength, peace, and humility. Humility like him-- And happiness all the time. Somebody said something, okay, all right. Happiness all the time. And then down to Earth. Hanuman Ji's biggest quality is in Sundarkand, he became big five times. But not that he only became big, in front of mother, like I told you now, &quot;Kanak Bhudharaakaar Sareera Bhayankar Roop Dhara.&quot; And Sita Ji said, enough, enough. Son, enough. &quot;Sita Man Bharos Tab Bhayaoo.&quot; So what did Tulsi Das Ji &quot;Puni Laghu Roop.&quot; &quot;Puni Laghu Roop Pavanasut Layaoo.&quot; Hanuman ji, it means the quality is that, he does big deeds but remains low profile. And we do very small deeds and show, me, we, we, we. Consider themselves an atom bomb. This is the thing. On worshiping Hanuman Ji, after achieving the highs in life, if down to earth does not come in, you have no inclination, no humility, then you didn't achieve anything. Your respect is worth two pennies. Soon as the world meets you He is as simple as he is successful. While traveling in the car, after seeing some poor guy, if the glass comes down, come here son. Some workers that work with us, the ones who are working with us, sometimes do something for them. We get moved after seeing someone's sorrow then we were devotees of Hanuman ji. We want to become very big. Means fake showoff. When Hanuman Ji is sitting up, he seeing Ravan for the second time. When did he see him for the first time? When he was sleeping. He saw him while roaming in Lanka. As soon as he entered Ravan's palace. He was roaming as a mosquito. A small mosquito. As soon as he saw such a beautiful woman What was Hanuman thinking? This can't be your mother. What did Vibhishan say to Ravan? &quot;So Parnaari Lilaar Gosaai.&quot; The one who leaves his wife and looks at someone else's woman &quot;Tajau Chauthi Ke Chand Ki Naai.&quot; In Sundarkand, God forsakes him like the moon of Chauth. The fourth night moon, which was seen by Lord Shri Krishna and was tarnished. Therefore, God considers You are the moon of Chauth, Now, I will never see you again. And you think, what will one do who is ignored by God? Sir, have you ever seen We have made some episodes on Tantra. Basically, what is Tantra? The word Tantra has got But it is not a bad word. If we translate Tantra in English, it means technique. Like Rohit Sharma's Similarly, Tantra is a technique. Means if you have learned Tantra then your intensity of worship, your intensity of havan will increase. Anyone who worships in this world, whoever chants mantra, he's already doing Tantra. I have understood this after speaking to a Tantric. Like Rajarshi Nandy sir. He spoke about Panchmukhi Hanuman. There are two questions for you. The first question is, does Panchmukhi Hanuman mean something to you? You look at him Because he is considered a 'Tantric God'. And the second question, you know what I'm going to ask. I'm going to ask about Bajrang Baan. Because Hum, Hum, Hum, Shum, Shum, Shum these are considered Tantric mantras. Ones with slightly more power. Sir, say whatever you want to say See, Panchmukhi-- I don't believe so much in Tantra. And I believe that every chaupai in the Ramcharitramanas is an individual mantra. Keep practicing mantra as a seer. I believe that, if I am saying Mangal Bhavan Amangal Hari. Dravav Sudashrath Ajir Bihari I think this is a mantra and which should have positivity. Such scary, tantric, or tantric devotion-- I have heard this about it, those practicing it don't have such a good ending. What I have heard. Devotion is always virtuous. &quot;Bhakti Swatantra Sakal Gunn Khani&quot; There should be Satvik devotion. And what you call Panchmukhi Hanuman Ji. These five faces come from Lord Shiva. Who is Shiva? Panchanan. Ekanan Chaturanan Panchanan Raje. Which we sing in &quot;Om Jai Shiv Omkara.&quot; Who is Lord Mahadev? Panchanan? Panch-Anan, who has five faces. What we consider those faces? Shiva has one mouth to chant Ram. &quot;Tumh Puni Ram Ram Din Rati.&quot; Add the same face of Hanuman Ji. Hanuman Ji has one mouth to chant Ram. Lord Shiva sits silent with one mouth. &quot;Nijkardas Ragribuchala Is sitting silently. &quot;Parvati Bhalav Sarjani.&quot; Is sitting silently. Instantly went and asked. Tell me something. The second mouth, silence. Story with the third mouth. Lord Shiva always keeps singing stories in front of Parvati on Kailash. And when Sati was burnt to ashes and there was no one to listen, goes and listens at Kakbhushundi Ashram. Who never lived without stories. And the world believes that there is no story in the world, there is no discussion of Ram, where Hanuman ji is not present? Even here too. &quot;Yatra Yatra Raghunatha Kirtanam Tatra Tatra Kruthamasthakanjalem.&quot; &quot;Vashpvari Paripurna Lochanam Maruthim Namatha Rakshasanthagam.&quot; Wherever Ram is discussed, there is Ram's story, there is Ram's name, Hanuman ji is sitting there silently This is a very long story, why the appearance stopped? You must have heard about Tulsidas Ji's reliever of troubles, Hanuman ji, in Kashi, he went to relieve himself, offered water to the Pipal. As soon as the water offered, a ghost appeared. Ask Brahmin, what do you want. Tulsidas Ji saw, a ghost! The ghost said, ask what you want. &quot;Why do you want to give me?&quot; Because I don't know how long I was thirsty here, today you poured water on me, my thirst was quenched. You have quenched my thirst Tulsidas, I will quench your thirst. Tulsidas ji said, my thirst is only for one thing, someone acquaints me with Ram. The ghost said, before meeting Ram ji, you will have to meet his PA. You can't meet directly. So Tulsidas Ji mouthed out, okay, with Hanuman Ji? Disappeared. Because Bhoot Pisach Nikat Nahi Ave Mahaveer Jab Nam Sunave He ran away. Tulsidas ji held his head, your luck is jinxed. You got a man, even if you got a ghost, one to acquaint you you lost him too. Whether a man a ghost is always. Tulsidas Ji walked a little further, the ghost appeared again. Hey, Tulsi! Don't take his name now. Tulsidas Ji understood. All right. He said, see, in Kashi, on the banks of Ganga, a storytelling takes place. There the one who goes there first and leaves last, he is the one you are looking for. The ghost is not taking his name. Tulsidas Ji understood, the story time was at 3 o'clock in the afternoon. Tulsidas Ji reached at 12 o'clock. Ram, Ram, Ram. The barefoot monk. Tulsidas was &quot;Ajanubahu&quot; like Ram Ji. Ajanu Bhuj Shar Chap Dhar Sangram Jit Khar Dushanam. Shri Ramchandra Kripalu Bhajman Haran Bhav Bhay Darunam Tulsidas ji had such long arms. This tall height, keeping a salt nugget in a bag. Someone said, Baba, Why do you keep a nugget of salt? He said, so that one does not become All the time Ram, Ram. Reached. Went and laid down his seat at the story. And doing this, took out the Ram Mala. Thought you came first, now I will catch Hanuman ji It is nature that if a guy sits, he will look here and there, where is the camera fixed? There were no cameras that time. Where is the story? How is the tent? Where will Maharaj Ji sit, when the story starts. A person sees like this. Tulsidas Ji sitting like this, doing like this, when turned and saw, then faraway... Saw a leper sitting in the corner. He got startled. Oh brother! Seems like he is my Hanuman Ji. Wondered, how Hanuman Ji as a leper? Extreme leprosy. There the story started and here the leper cried, and here Tulsidas Ji cried. When I hear this story I get goosebumps. When tears flow from the eyes, this is the first stage of devotion. The first stage of devotion-- What is the youth of today-- Look here also, I would like to say one thing, what is happening Went and danced. Done with the Jagran. Done with the Hymns. Done with the devotional songs. The heart should dance. Today's-- Your body will dance to Western music. But on Indian classical music, if you listen to hymns-- There, the body will dance; here, the heart will dance. The first stage of devotion, to get goosebumps. The second stage of devotion-- The first stage of devotion is to shed tears from the eyes. The second stage is to get goosebumps. And the third stage is dancing. And today's youth thinks, come let's dance. Just danced and done. Look when Ganesh ji departs, don't know where this trend came from? Make Ganesh ji sit for 9-10 days, after that throw Ganesh ji, his hand is lying somewhere, his feet are lying somewhere, it is broken somewhere. What happens in that? So I say, when we listen we will get goosebumps, and tears will flow from the eyes. So when is the first stage of devotion, when you feel like dancing, after that you start getting goosebumps, and what is the first stage, while listening, the corners of your eyes fill up? So consider it accomplished. Here Tulsidas Ji is crying, here Hanuman Ji is crying. The story is complete, everyone has gone, two people don't leave. One Tulsidas Ji, one Hanuman Ji. Now Tulsidas ji went and said, go away. Leper Hanuman ji said, stay away. I will go, don't you see, I have leprosy. You go first, I will go later. Said no, you go first. Tulsidas ji understood. His mind startled. No, no. First you, first you. Hanuman Ji stressed a bit and said, stay away! You will get leprosy. Tulsidas Ji laid down and held his feet. Hanuman Ji, show yourself, show yourself Hanuman Ji. I am roaming around only to get the disease that you have got. Hanuman Ji appeared there itself? Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram! So Hanuman Ji is sitting even here. From that day onwards, Hanuman ji stopped appearing. He is seated even here. So where you chant Ram-- By the grace of God I bought a new house, where I live. So when you enter my house, Ram is written on every door frame. When you stand at the gate Ram is written there, Hanuman ji is below that. And it is written on it, &quot;Ram Duare Tum Rakware, Hot Na Agya Binu Pesare.&quot; So as you keep entering the house, Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram. Shri Hanuman ji is there all the time but keep chanting Ram. -Bajrang Baan. Yes, Panchmukhi Hanuman. Lord Mahadev story. It is said that Hanuman Ji also, went first-- Vibhishan asked who are you? &quot;Ki Tum Ram Din Anuragi.&quot; &quot;Are you Ram?&quot; That time Hanuman Ji, &quot;Hanumant Kahi Sab Ram Katha Nij Nam.&quot; First told the whole story of Ram, then told his name. Well, someone asks us, who are you, what will we say, Ranveer. Ask me, Rasraj Ji Maharaj. Someone asks Hanuman ji, who are you? Says, &quot;Mangal Bhvan Amangal Hari.&quot; &quot;Dravav Sudashrath Ajir Bihari.&quot; Thumak Chalat Ramchandra, Bajat Paijaniya, Thumak Vibhishan is saying, I am asking about you, you are telling the story of Ram. Hanuman ji says this is what my introduction is. The story of Ram is my introduction. You ask me who I am, I don't know, Bajrang Baan is my introduction. Sundarkand is my introduction. Then after that Hanuman ji narrated the whole story and then said, &quot;Nij Nam.&quot; My name is Hanuman. This is Hanuman Ji. The one to narrate a story the one to narrate in Lanka, in front of Vibhishan, Hanuman Ji was the first one. Going to a foreign land, even in someone else's stronghold, how can you sing the story of Ram? Learn this from Sri Krishna. Where the Akshauhini army is standing, the bows and arrows are out there, and where the Gita came out. Who can do this? The capable. That's why God is powerful. &quot;Samrath Ko Nahi dosh Gosai.&quot; &quot;Kartum Akartum Anytha Kartum.&quot; So, Hanuman ji tells stories remains silent with one, does bhajans with one, behaves normally with one, routine talks with someone and always does kirtan with one. These five faces are of Shiva, this is Panchmukhi Shri Hanuman ji. One is of Varaha, a boar. All are of animals. One is of Narsimha, one is of Garuda, one is of monkey, so all are animals. And Hanuman ji showed the world that no matter how the costume is, &quot;Kiye Kuvesh Sadhu Sanmanu, Jimi Jamwant Hanumanu,&quot; No matter what is the attire, a person doesn't become great He is great by his character, he is great by his actions. Now if a person is black, means his complexion is not clear, if someone is ugly then can't he have some quality? Can have. Hanuman ji-- A man runs away Tell me how many people are there who don't run away when they see a monkey? &quot;Kapi Chanchal Sabhi Vidhi Hina.&quot; But today in the world if Hanuman ji's gentleness is seen, then how... So the five faces of Shankar, you are saying We connect it with righteousness. That he is singing hymns with five faces. There is a big face issue with Shankar ji. He is himself Panchanan. One son, Ganesh, even his face is different, that of an elephant, Gajanan. He is Panchanan, he is Gajanan. On son, Kartikeya. He is Shadanan. That is six heads. Six faces, Kartikeya. One face, Ganesh Ji, of an elephant. Fives faces of Shankar Ji. There is one Nandi. &quot;Bel Tabela,&quot; even that face is different. Made a disciple, that too Dashanan. That too Dashanan. That means the Guru is that powerful, he himself has five faces and can make his disciple 10 headed. This is the meaning of the five faces. Why tantric-- Why do people want to worship What do you want to do? From Tantra, you-- As you said Tantra is a technique. All right. But Tantra technique is fine when it is engaged in Satvikta. By singing devotional hymns, negativity doesn't go anywhere anytime. If someone thinks, if you read this mantra this way then Hanuman Ji will be sad. Like the same question has come up. Bajrang Baan. Why should it not be done? Or should it be done every day. Some people say Hanuman Ji is put under an oath in this. What has been done in this, Hanuman ji has been told to do it like this, Hanuman ji do this. You read Hanuman Ashtak, what is said in it? &quot;Begi Haro.&quot; Do it fast. It is the language of Rajasthan. &quot;Begi Haro.&quot; Do it fast. Who says like that? Do it fast. Only one of our servants will be told to hurry up, work quickly. &quot;Begi Haro Hanuman Mahaprabhu Jo Kuchu Sankat Hoye Humaro.&quot; &quot;Kon Hi Janat Hai Jag Me Kabhi Sankat Mochan.&quot; Now someone said that a great calamity has befallen me. &quot;Inhe Maru Tohi Shapath Ram Ki.&quot; &quot;Ramdoot Marjad Nam Ki.&quot; This line from Bajrang Baan. Kill them. Now is it necessary that those are outside crises? What troubles are lurking within? Lust, anger, attachment, greed, ego, jealousy, there is talk of killing them. Tell me one thing. There is a learned person, if someone tells him to jump into the well, will he jump? If a foolish person is told-- What will people say if someone jumps? He was a fool. The one who did not jump is smart. Who is more learned than Hanuman Ji? &quot;Vidyavan Guni Ati Chatur.&quot; I say Ravan was a scholar but Hanuman ji was learned. Being a scholar is not as big as being learned. That's why I tell today's youth, when it's someone's birthday, I do a Sundarkand, so I keep this chaupai and close it. &quot;Vidyavan Guni Ati Chatur Ram Kaj Karibe Ko&quot; So someone asked me, why do you want to say very clever? Very clever is not a good word. So I said Tulsidas ji says, &quot;Ram Hi Bhaje To Chatur Nar.&quot; The one who worships Lord Ram is the smartest person in the world. So Hanuman Ji always worships Ram Ji. May your child also become such a smart person. So what was I saying, now if someone jumps into a well, then what is he, a fool, if not, he is wise? We are telling Hanuman ji to take away my suffering. Take away my suffering. End this, end that. Is this what Hanuman ji You will say and he will do. You gave him a oath, and he will do it. Like &quot;Vakratunda Mahakaya Suryakoti Samaprabha.&quot; &quot;Nirvighnam Kuru Me Deva Sarva-Kaaryeshu.&quot; Here some saints removed &quot;Sarva&quot; and made it &quot;Shubh.&quot; &quot;Shubh-Kaaryeshu Sarvadaa.&quot; We will ask Lord Ganesha, do all my work. &quot;Sarva-Kaarya&quot; means, finish off someone else's podcast, make my podcast number one. Stop other's Sundarkand, let Rasraj Ji Maharaj's run. End this other person's business, and let my run. Do all the work for me. Whether they are bad, whether they are good. Will Ganesh ji do it? What work would he do? Which is good. A good deed. Just like in Bajrang Baan, no matter how much we keep provoking him. Tell me how much Jamwant ji provoked. But he did not agree. But when it came to his own interest, &quot;Ram Kaj Lagi Tav Avtara.&quot; So those who connect their life's work with Ram's work, their those tasks are done by Hanuman ji, otherwise you can keep saying anything. But sir, there is nothing like that because there are tantric words in that mantra like Sham Sham Sham, Hum Hum Hum. Sham Sham Sham is not there. &quot;Om Cham Cham Cham Chapal Chalanta.&quot; &quot;Om Hem Hem Hem Hanumate Kapisa.&quot; All this is there. Maybe Sham Sham Sham is not there. &quot;Sam Sam Sam&quot; &quot;Sam Sam,&quot; sorry. -Patience is more enhanced. This is not a Tantric word. Just like I presented one thing to you, as soon as Hanuman ji was told, your incarnation is for Ram's work. Now I tell you, &quot;Kanak Bhudharaakaar Sareera.&quot; &quot;Samar Bhayankar Atibal Beera.&quot; I told you one thing like this. And now I say, &quot;Kanak Bhudharaakaar Sareera!&quot; &quot;Samar Bhayankar Atibal Beera!&quot; How is our presentation? The way we place our point, &quot;Have some water.&quot; &quot;Come on drink the water.&quot; It's the same thing. &quot;Drink some water sir.&quot; &quot;Sir, have water.&quot; The same thing, &quot;Hey bro, have water.&quot; The only difference It is the same thing. In this way, all this in fact, is the worship of Hanuman Ji. You do &quot;Cham Cham Cham Cham,&quot; what happens by this? You are of this class. You are gold class. Hanuman Ji is a gold class. What is the tantric word in this, tell me. Can we listen to Bajrang Baan Listen to it the whole day. You said one thing that I listened to Bajrang Baan and I got a very bad injury. In a podcast. I heard your take. As soon as I heard it, I thought, you have fallen into so much negativity. That you heard Bajrang Baan and after a week you got an injury. Some old bad one of yours, resurfaced. Why didn't you think don't know, which of my major distress got averted? It got averted with a small injury, who knows what else might have happened. I also took help from Bajrang Ban to get out of that injury. Prabhu ji, read Bajrang Baan 24 hours. Someone also said in your podcast that Hanuman Chalisa should not be read daily. Shut everything down. Who gave them permission to talk about virtues? There is a poet's poem: Who gave them permission to talk to the flowers? &quot;Gul&quot; means flower. Who don't even have the manners, to set foot in a garden. How can one who does not know how to keep his foot in the garden The one who has never read Tulsidas Ji, who never knew about Hanuman Chalisa, he'll keep saying things like that, Hanuman Chalisa should not be read. Don't read Bajrang Baan. What kind of drama are they playing? Why are people scaring them Look what's happening in the world today. 22 January, a flood named, Ram. And it is not doing bad to anyone. Santana is not against anyone. He is demanding his rights. A gentleman is afraid It is said that give money to someone and after giving money a gentleman is afraid Lest this man feels bad by this. He hesitates to ask. And it doesn't matter to the giver. He thinks keep sitting quietly. When Santana asked for his rights, it became bad? Ram was in a tent for 500 years. Went to his home today. Today I am only asking you The questions that were actually needed to be asked have been asked. There is one question remaining. Once again about Sundarkand. At 6 minutes a couplet starts where your whole tempo changes, you know what I'm saying? Let's listen. Give my phone. I just want the couplet-- Don't know the couplet. Want to understand And I want to ask you what happened? Because whenever I hear that, if I am alone, I either feel a lot of strength or tears come out. So I'm trying to understand that. I have tried that many times, at this paragraph-- What are you saying here? This is really the greatness of Yaman Raag. What I picked up-- Our Sundarkand goes from Sa to Sa. Like this one, &quot;Kanak Kot Bichitra Mani Krat.&quot; We picked up this tune from &quot;Shree Ram Chandra Kripalu Bhajman.&quot; &quot;Shree Ram Chandra Kripalu Bhajman Harana Bhavabhaya Daarunam.&quot; Basically, the rhythm which it is in, the old Ramcharitra Manas used to be sung just like this. Or it is sung like this, &quot;Shree Ram Chandra Kripalu Bhaj.&quot; So this whole thing is that. As one goes up, up, up to Ga Ma Pa Dha Ni, and at the very last, it went to Sa. So that Yaman Raga absolutely-- Like you sit to listen so they make the other person Wow! Wow! This is called the limit. Now, I can say in another way, but no. Means, the full result of that raag, of Shravan. When any work comes to an end, after that, it is nothing else, there is only a downward spiral now. So, this Raag, going up, up, up, up to Yaman. Then, after going to &quot;Sa,&quot; brought it down. So here the notes become complete. Although it is not that But the rhythm it has not gone to &quot;Sa&quot; anywhere. Again, came down from there. Went to &quot;Ni.&quot; Went to &quot;Sa.&quot; This one that is there. This has come while singing raag, we get so lost in that raag, -then we don't sing, the raag sings us. Not a single note is dissonant. Once a violinist came with me from Bhopal. So, he said, Maharaj ji, today I saw that you sang 3 hours in the entire lesson and not a single note went out of tune. Whether we sang Chandrakauns Raag, or we sang Puriya Dhanashri, I sing Sundarkand in about 10-15 Raags. When the atmosphere of Raag, like I am singing Raag in front of you, now if this is a tanpura, or if I have harmonium, then only I will be able to change. When I was talking to you I was singing in Bhairavi. So many times, I tried that I now take other quatrains in the other Raags, But the atmosphere in my mind became that of Bhairavi. That Bhairavi kept on going. It is not detaching. Raag is a God, it is Samaveda. Due to that on you-- And so much of Sundarkand, Bajrang Baan has been sung the world, but here in its origin, -there is Western and... Raag as well, Indian classical music is also there. When America's World Trade Center was attacked, 5,000 people were killed then those who sang bhajans in Indian classical music Live telecast took place and then their mind got stable, after listening to Indian classical music. You see, all the people sitting are sitting like this in silence in the auditorium. The flute is playing, as it goes on playing, when it reached at &quot;Sa,&quot; and the person still sitting, went to from zero to full. This is what music means. And Tulsidas ji is the ultimate connoisseur of raags. I am singing Ramcharitmanas now, will be completed before 22nd January. I'm coming after singing the last couple of Lanka Kand yesterday. So I was looking at a single Chaupai, see in how many raags I can sing provided we should have the knowledge. Let's pick up any Chaupai Mangal Bhavan Amangal Haari Dravav Sudashrath Ajir Bihari This is Yaman. Now, Puriya Dhanashri. Mangal Bhavan Amangal Haari.&quot; Dravav Sudashrath Although I am not that strong with raags, but I try never to sing my hymns on film songs. Now, &quot;Maine Pyar Tumhi Se Kiya&quot; or &quot;Tujhe Dekha To Ye Jana Sanam.&quot; No matter how many songs I sing on this, my mind will definitely go there once. That's why raag is its own composing, whatever you sing in it. I am talking to you, even this has a raag to it, even this has a tone. Only great people can tell all this, I am far away from music. You are only the medium. That's all. But a very important medium for all of us. We take one raag, Chandrakauns. Masak Samaan Roop Kapi Dharee Lankahi Chaluon Sumiri Narahari As soon as Hanuman ji climbed the attic of Lanka and saw, The Lankan defense is very tough. It's not appropriate to go during the day; I should enter at night. So what did Hanuman ji become? &quot;Masak Samaan.&quot; Some people say that Hanuman ji became a mosquito. Did not become a mosquito, Tulsidas Ji is saying, &quot;Masak Samaan.&quot; That means very small, very small, very small. And look at that radar system, look at the defense of Lanka. Look at the security of Lanka. Like the security of a PM. Not even a bird can fly by. Look at Ravan's security, Hanuman Ji went in the form of a mosquito, so &quot;Lankahi Chaleu Sumiri Naraharee.&quot; Who Narahari? There was a picture of Lord Narasimha at the gate of Lanka. Ravan had kept the photo So Hanuman ji first saluted it. &quot;Sumiri Naraharee.&quot; Narahari is the name Tulsidas Ji bowed to his Guru Naam Lankinee Ek Nisicharee Lankini is guarding Lanka. And the saints say that Lankini was not a woman, she was not a lady security guard. Lanka used to turn into Lankini at night and guard Lanka. Naam Lankinee Ek Nisicharee She said, &quot;So Kah Chalesi Mohi Nindaree.&quot; &quot;Jaanehi Nahee Maramu Sath Mora.&quot; Hey don't you know, lifted Hanuman Ji like this. &quot;Mor Ahar Jahaa Lagi Chora.&quot; I eat thieves. I catch thieves. And you are going to steal in Lanka Hanuman Ji laughed. You eat thieves. I am here to find out the thief. I am here to find out who? A thief. Who is the biggest thief in the world? Ravan, the one who stole my mother, I understood, you don't eat thieves, you protect the thieves. That's why you don't have Lifted a fist. As soon as the fist landed, blood flowed from her nose. And she was once again like this. Like, &quot;Puni Sambhar.&quot; As if Lanka completely collapsed The whole of Lanka with a single punch... Then Lankini gathered herself. &quot;Puni Sambhari Uthee So Lanka.&quot; And she folded her hands, she realized. &quot;Jori Paani Kar Binay Sasanka.&quot; Then she said, &quot;Jab Ravanahi Brahm Bar Deenha.&quot; When Brahma ji gave boons to Ravan, he had said. &quot;Jab Ravanahi Brahm Bar Deenha.&quot; &quot;Chalat Biranchi Kaha Mohi Cheenha.&quot; What? I said, due to him you tied me into this matter. I will keep protecting him. Made me Lanka. When will I have salvation? Then Brahma ji thought that your salvation will come when a monkey will come and hit your head with a fist and break your nose. On that day, there will be the destruction of Lanka and your salvation. So Hanuman ji is the true guru. Now what example do we give of this? Lankini is full of blood. Where does the guru strike. When this arrow of words comes out of the mouth of a guru it travels through his ears and changes his intellect. So when Hanuman Ji punched her, it was landed on her intellect. When he attacked here on her head, it means, it was on her intellect. Soon as blood oozed out Lankini became nonchalant. Lankini started doing Satang &quot;Taat Swarg Apabarg &quot;Tool Na Taahi Sakal Mili Hanuman Ji-- Put a mustard seed on the horn of a cow and put the entire Satsang As long as the mustard seed stays, even if a person does Satsang his life changes. Then he was told by Lankini who was not letting him go, &quot;Prabisi Nagar Keeje Sab Kaaja.&quot; She moved away, said go, go, go. This is the quality of Hanuman ji. The one saying earlier, I will not let you enter, she is saying, &quot;Prabisi Nagar Keeje Sab Kaaja.&quot; But do one thing for sure, she is also giving a bit of teaching. &quot;Hriday Rakhi Kosalapur Raja.&quot; Just don't forget Ram ji, all your work will be done. You also remember this. Rasraj Ji Maharaj, that was today's podcast. How was the experience? Coming here, I felt as if I am sitting on a dais. I have also visited Lanka. And today my story of Sundarkand I did the lesson in the morning. Now, my story of Sundarkand is done. You don't know what you are doing for me? And there are many more people, all the people till this point, I'm sure, they too must be saying the same thing that there is something in your music. I would just like to say that. And I definitely know, you are a medium, maybe this is your duty towards the world. That you have to show the world that you just need to be a medium. Am I correct? Absolutely. Absolutely. That's right. Would you like to say something, sir, to the fans? All the people Something in the end, anything. I will say the same thing, recite Hanuman Chalisa Don't bring someone's negativity or thing Let every youth The youth of India And my daughters of India, my sisters, worship Goddess Bhagwati every day. And &quot;Jai Jai Girivar Raaj Kishori. &quot;Jai Mahesh Mukh Chand Chakori.&quot; &quot;Jai Gajbadan Shdaanaan Maataa.&quot; &quot;Jagat Janani Daamini Duti Gaataa.&quot; This is Gauri Stuti in Balkand. My daughters of India, you get blessed &quot;Sevat Tohi Sulabh Phal Chari.&quot; &quot;Bardaayani Puraari Piyaari.&quot; Shankar's beloved gives her blessings. Same thing happens By doing Hanuman Chalisa. -&quot;Jo Dayak Phal Chaar.&quot; And Hanuman ji's tail is Maa Bhagwati. So Hanuman ji is actually Maa Bhagwati. The daughters are worshiping Maa Bhagwati. The children who are worshiping Maa Bhagwati are worshiping Hanuman ji only. -Santana Dharma is one. Some people say only one God. There should be one God. But our Santana's happiness of living in all senses-- The happiness that I get Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna. Krishna, Krishna, Hare, Hare. If I say Radha once, the name Radha is unique. It can't be compared. It is not that I am sitting Name Ram is also Name Ram, Hanuman Ji. Our Santana Dharma, where will you escape? Can't escape this. The name of Ganga comes, -One drop &quot;Ganga Sakal Mud Mangal Moola.&quot; &quot;Sab Sukh Karni.&quot; We all have so much faith that is why the world To see Santana, to see God, then India. That's why Santana Dharma has remained alive. Will remain. &quot;Jab Jab Hohin Dharma Ki Hani, Barhahin Asur Maha Abhimani, Tab Tab Dhari Prabhu Vividh Sarira, Harahin Kripanidhi Sajjan Pira.&quot; God incarnates. &quot;Yada Yada Hi Dharmasya Glaanirbhavati Bhaarat.&quot; &quot;Abhyutthaanam Adharmasya Tadaatmaanam.&quot; Shri Krishna kept explaining him. It took 700 verses to explain the Gita. But later God said listen, &quot;Sarva-Dharman Parityajya Mam Ekam Saranam Vraja.&quot; Just come to my refuge. Shri Krishna kept saying this, &quot;Sharanam Mama.&quot; Then I will do, you keep watching. Do you know that even Shri Krishna's work does not happen without Hanuman ji? -Because on the flag... There is Hanuman Ji sitting. That's why I say, that Arjun's attachment was an excuse. Arjun's attachment was an excuse, Lord Shri Krishna wanted to recite the Gita to Hanuman Ji. Wow! Wow! Hanuman Ji wanted to listen to the Gita. &quot;Ram Charitra Sunbe Ko Rasiya.&quot; Arjun understands the Gita? Today, there are so many people are unable to understand. &quot;Dhyayto Vishyan Punsah Some people don't understand People say they can't understand From where will you understand? Whose voice is it? So how did Arjun hear? Arjun hasn't heard. Everyone was watching there, what's going on? It was Baba listening. &quot;Kapidhwaj.&quot; That's why God said, when the war was over, Arjuna come down, Lord I am coming down. Come down quickly. Why? Will things get messed up. Why? As soon as Arjun jumped down, the chariot caught fire. So, Hanuman Ji was leaving, saying bye. Lord, thank you very much for narrating the Gita. Your war is over, now I am leaving. Looked, what just happened, the chariot caught fire. God said, yes. Look, the chariot caught fire. Okay, how did it catch? Said, he left. The fire has been going on so long. The Chariot has been on fire for long, the one sitting in it, is not letting it be seen by you, is not burning you. Now he has gone, see the situation. That's why you see, there are some foreigners, they keep listening to our stories, keep listening to the raags, keep listening to bhajans, they are not able to understand anything but after listening they are getting complete satisfaction. Similarly, Gita, is &quot;Arjun Samvad.&quot; But everyone was watching in shock, something is happening that brings peace. There is something happening. But someone else was listening. So, &quot;Manojavam Marut Tulya Vegam Jitendriyam Buddhi-Mataam Varissttha.&quot; &quot;Vaata-Atmajam Vaanara-Yuutha-Mukhyam Shriiraama-Duutam Sharannam Prapadhye.&quot; &quot;Katha Visarjan Hot Hai.&quot; Listen brave Hanuman, Ram, Laxman, Janaki always do good. -Siyavar Ramchandra Ki... Pawansut Hanuman Ki Jai! Umapati Mahadev Ki Jai! Radha Var Krishna Chandra Ki Jai. Aadishakti Jagdamba Durga Maiya Ki Jai. Namah Parvati Pataye. Har Har Mahadev. Just with that, time to wrap up the podcast. Jai Siya Ram. Jai Siya Ram. So friends this was today's podcast. Tell me, how was it. I want many of you to pick up the clips of the podcast and put them on your own Insta and put them on your own YouTube Shorts. We don't have any problem. Flood the internet. Whatever knowledge we are getting here through the podcast, share it with the internet. I have only this request. Tell us what other topics we should cover with Rasraj Ji Maharaj. I'm looking forward to the comment section. Thank you for listening to The Ranveer Show. [Music] [Music] [Music]