There are two moments in "Planet of Lana" that The first was, literally, a big moment. The creature swam under my boat. Its body seemed I'd surely be capsized and eaten -- but instead it feeling that I wasn't the center of this world. and a predator caught me. Okay, time to try again. since that's... usually something you can do It's rare that a game makes you feel tiny part of a much larger environment. When it can be like witnessing a sort of magic you backstage and explore how different games Okay, so how do you get past a predator in move slowly -- learning the route of an enemy -- a way to evade them altogether. From very early insignificant to overcome dangers directly. understanding the ecosystem: knowing how different practice to escape creatures much higher up the is not particularly skillful. Your fastest running enough to cross most gaps. You fall and stumble even be remotely bothered by. Unfortunately, the the darkness of most environments. And with no game over. But if you pay attention, you realize ecosystem works. Early in "Planet of Lana," under a rock as you wander by. Later, you pass a of tiny feet. The game is full of these little learn the rules of how the environment functions, But what about a game where you but something a bit smaller. Introducing: you play as a peacock spider. Moving around in I found my first attempts at traversal wildly my spider careened around at high speeds, crashing at spinning a fly-catching web was equally sad -- utterly ineffective. And this was a real problem, nearly every insect is larger than you are. And mate from a relatively titanic bowerbird, a task But to succeed in the environment of "Webbed," like a spider. Once I got used to having a body greater success. With practice, I even managed to My fly-catching webs also improved. At first, my occasions. But the more I crafted wider networks the more I found my food came to me. One of the mechanics come together with its virtual ecosystem might never consider. Granted, "Webbed" is not being a spider. Spiders, generally, can't fire Spider-Man. They also can't do sick tricks on a unlock. But the core gameplay truly does excel Another game that can successfully hijack your you live the fast-paced, high stakes life of a canopy. Like in "Webbed," your method of traversal starts to feel unbelievably natural, with every There's a certain feeling you get when you at just the right moment for an incredible rush vine and hold it for a long swing, letting go Though the ecosystem itself is less interactive deeply immersive, with other animals finding weather changing at unexpected times. "Gibbon's" use of procedural animation -- or animation that of following a predetermined loop. It's the same World feel so unpredictable. Since I've already channel, I won't say too much about its simulated can be so mechanically immersive, it changes your react like a prey animal living in an environment similarly, has these moments that convey your where the camera zooms all the way out to capture of what makes these moments so breathtaking predetermined animation -- if you make a single thinking with your gibbon brain and miss a branch, isn't such a big deal when you're close to the effect is a world that is not only expansive, but environment feel all the vaster. "Planet of Lana" you soak in the sheer scale of the world around environments that are massive -- but the entities fractured skeletons, you can find, in the gloom spider-like entity -- who towers over you to entities stand even taller, and while for much background -- there are some sequences where you spellbinding. Rarely have I felt less significant sections. But the most stupefying expression of or giant monsters. Instead, it's a relatively an empty expanse with their animal companion. The overhead. You watch as your character appears to perspective can't get any wider, but the zoom-out dot in a corner of the screen, and still the to peak over the horizon. I timed it, and it takes to conclude. But absolutely I could not have told watched the sun rise over the distant mountains, the world faded away, leaving only myself and Though there are other parts of "Planet of Lana" it's this section that made me truly feel I've gotten a similar feeling of... 'smallness' to the density of their worlds, and sometimes due a sense of insignificance simply from how long world games differ from the indie titles mentioned minute part of the environment, they can often degree. This can cause players to feel above an pull them in deeper. And one open world I found "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild." The but also a world that requires you to understand play, you learn to chop down trees to cross overcome the freezing cold of the tundra and the have already talked about how immersive this world even closer to the world when I played "Tears the Wild," "Tears of the Kingdom" takes you back immersed in the cell-shaded environments than I for this difference is Fuse, a super bizarre new in the environment with whatever's in your hand. world around me without even realizing it. Because utility that Fuse could bring out, I found myself me. I explored each section of the world more berries by sight alone. I learned more about all psychics system makes possible. The simple act became one of my favorite activities. I also found discover what sort of Fuse materials I could the greater variety of creatures in "Tears of the behaviors that make the ecosystem feel more me for learning how its world functioned, There's another, blockier open-world game ecosystem. Like Zelda, Minecraft balances huge, interactivity. While much of Minecraft has to do knowing what plants are edible, what types of what can be turned into your ally and what sees as a game that makes you part of its ecosystem, a playthrough and I hear the vocalizations of go on alert like a prey animal. Knowing things weird green guy,' or 'don't look the lanky key to survival. Minecraft also puts emphasis on what can be found in which type of environment as the Kingdom similarly incentivizes knowledge of different biomes present in Breath of the Wild, radically different from one another. The game is other: the bright and sunny islands in the sky, and eerie depths below. Even more than different their own rules, and their own aesthetics that be this hostile, lost realm of foreboding flora that the plants here seem to take inspiration from look more like something from the Cambrian era. explore the others. The Sundelion flowers of the Likewise, the Brightbloom Seeds you find in caves crucial for lighting your way when exploring the you'll find powerful fuse materials that make you other two realms. Minecraft has its own parallel creatures and biomes completely different from aren't careful, the different rules of this domain There're other open world games that succeed Zero Dawn," with its artificial ecosystem with its Thalassophobia-inducing ecosystem of nicely. As was the case with Rain World, I've but if you want to feel like a very minute part top recommendations. It's also worth noting that you might start to feel less and less beholden there's the argument to be made that but conquering them. It's a feeling that can arise But even in the late stages of Minecraft and the world around you. No matter your experience guard by something in the environment. As games how much you disrupt the digital ecosystems of the end, the option to keep the land around Life in an undamaged ecosystem is not an option way I expected. Based on screenshots, I thought of foxes. But when I booted it up, I was greeted background. The camera pulled out and I realized the world outside was on fire. Almost immediately, mother fox I controlled, reduced to the single me hurtling off a ledge. Still, I pressed onwards, I made it to shelter, and as a scene played of like my first breath since pressing start. But panned up out of the den to remind me just what "Endling" is a game that traps you within its changes into a stressful cycle of finding food for new format, the raging inferno is replaced with barren ecosystem is a constant challenge, and your cubs start coming with you to learn how to your pups requires constant vigilance, pulling post-apocalyptic, "Endling" depicts a future one ravaged by the mistakes of humanity. As no dialogue communicates its themes the devastation is felt in the bareness of the make up the landscape. Humans themselves are and helping you think of them as threats the into the psyche of an animal, one of your cubs is But though the game teaches you that the world of you find yourself taking greater and greater risks head for me when one night, starving from lack noxious-looking garbage, not knowing if it was powerful if I hadn't felt forced to make that The later stages of "Gibbon" uses in-game systems manner. After a while, you start seeing plumes Swinging itself begins to feel different a full-scale fire breaks out, sending the forest new weight, as falling into the forest below large gaps are now key for survival -- turning into a grim necessity. Even later, the natural that are difficult to swing through, which then doesn't need dialogue to convey its themes. navigate rooftops instead of the branches you're on environmental destruction potentially could that make you part of an ecosystem can get you to humans are already part of an ecosystem, even lives. Though we are a relatively insignificant we have the capacity to profoundly influence our through some of these games, I can't help but If there's an ecosystem-focused game with a I'd say it's probably "Planet of Lana." It's the mechanical interrupting the natural world, and learn from the mistakes of the past to create a educating yourself on the ins and outs of the for the world around you, all without a single spoil the final moments, I will say the ending Ultimately, there's no single way to create different genres and art-styles, game of worlds ruled by interactive systems. And ecosystems that I wasn't able to cover here. I've got a full list of the games featured in for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please hitting the notification icon to stay up to date