One of the things that is really it's a give and take relationship. Give something of value first before you Oftentimes, a lot of founders, and you can't sell the world if you're a startup. Emailing is getting very, very noisy. So you have to be a lot more intentional about thinking about where are people talking about the problem you solve. So I think really good tech salespeople that their technology is from the future, but can solve problems today in the most effective way. Hi, my name is Peter Ann I'm a Korean American tech sales coach. I specifically help startup founders and salespeople learn sales in a genuine authentic way, while gaining confidence in their approach. I started at Google straight out of college, and then from there I went to Dropbox in the early days, helped them form their first enterprise sales motions, and was able to close their first ten large enterprise deals. I've coached over 100 startups, Figma is an example of a company where I helped them when they were around 20 people, to figure out their early enterprise sales motions companies like elicit in the AI space bezi they sell in the 3D design space. And there's then companies like Twingate, and then I joined full time. I really enjoy kind of the technical sales aspects, because I think that's where like the hardest challenges are and where the most skeptical buyers are. There's one moment when we were trying to sell NBC Universal at Dropbox, when my champion and executive sponsor, his name is Lenny Bloom, he was the VP of Identity and collaboration at NBC. After a day of doing vision talks, having him meet with our founders Drew and Arash, I was escorting him out of the Dropbox building. And remember our main competitor was box, and they had recently closed a deal with General Electric, and I think they were marketing that deal as having sold over 100,000 licenses. So this was a big, big deal. So we were already nervous about it from the Dropbox perspective, because our biggest deal was a 2000 license deal on the enterprise side, as my champion and exec sponsor from NBC was getting in the elevator, he looked at me and he said, hey, Peter, I just have one more question. And his question was, who is your biggest customer? I kind of like for a split second I was thinking about box. Oh my gosh, he's asking me this. And if I say our largest customer is 2000 employees, maybe I'll lose the deal Because NBC was 42,000 employees. But what I decided was, you know what? I've built a relationship. I'm going to be honest throughout the entirety of this deal cycle. And I told them, Lenny, our largest customer is 2000 employees at National Geographic, They are similar in terms of use cases because they also have a lot of large media files, but we don't have yet a fortune 500 customer. So you would be the first fortune 500 customer to sign with Dropbox. He said thanks. Okay, that makes sense. And then he kind of rushed off because his car was already there, so Icouldn't really get a reaction from him. We ended up actually closing that deal. It was our first three year It was a big deal. And... he told me weeks later he said, When you told me who your biggest customer was, because I like to take risks and I'm an innovator. And he said, I like to be meaning that he wanted to be at the And so that memory is seared into my mind because a lot of sales training is about, oh, you need to show credibility. You need to show that you're impressive. But there's moments where you also need to be just very brutally honest. Because honesty always wins, transparency always wins, and enterprise sales is a trust exercise. The other lesson of that story is that you need to seek out innovators. If you're a startup or you're an underdog, you need to align with buyers who have that mentality that Lenny had, because if he was looking for credibility, like we had 100 000 license deal, we would have lost that deal. But there were moments throughout that deal where I knew he was an innovator, where I knew it was exciting for him to work with a startup. And so that's the other lesson is like to think about how are you aligning with innovators? Because most people are followers. And so in an enterprise sales cycle, you need to be able to filter for the ones who are not followers, but the ones who are leaders from the buying side. So the way Dropbox celebrated is there was like a company wide email from drew. There was just a whole bunch of excitement because it was like the largest deal by magnitude. And so I remember just like having a really great time that Friday, getting to like, hug drew, right? Why wasn't an important milestone is because everybody, I think even drew felt like NBC wasn't gonna close. Every time I saw drew, he would ask me, how is NBC going? Almost as a joke. We're like, oh, how's NBC going? And I would always tell them, oh, it's going, you know. And it was, you know, And so when it closed, He was like, I built this consumer brand And here's a multi-million dollar deal. I think even a lot of the people I mean, Because we didn't have Vox had a list of like 50 things and we were a consumer brand being like, oh, we just launched Single Sign On, basic enterprise functionality. It changed the internal company's Sometimes you just need a proof point that this is actually possible. So I think really good tech salespeople that their technology is from the future, in the most effective way. So if I were starting at a company fresh, Like first day, Like the first month. What I would focus on in on a deep, deep level, like my goal in the first month of how can I get to the level of a sales engineer in terms of understanding what's under the hood? Because I want to become an expert So it's a lot of reading outside asking the engineers or product managers even if the questions feel like they're stupid. I'm always asking them when I get questions from customers how to respond, right? So that's how I treat the first month after that, obviously. Then you got to start You got to attract customers, So to your question of today, what I suggest a lot of founders and sellers do Before you ask for a meeting. you know, let's say, for example, Instead of saying, I would say, hey, I wrote something about Do you want to see it? And inevitably, a certain number of people yes, I want to see that guide. Then you send that, research your company, and then you've built a certain amount of rapport and trust because as I said, enterprise sales And so once you built a little bit of trust, do you want to get on a call? And so I think this authentic, genuine before you ask for a meeting is So so that's one way that have users already One of my clients elicit but they've never sold into enterprise. So in that world You're reaching out to users, And you're saying, hey, I know you I'd love to get on a call to show you Talk to you about where we're headed So in that world, because you're a plg company, what will get them excited to join the call, right? And typically it's something Or sometimes, you know, you know, other incentives, you know, you have to think about adding value Don't try to sell things first. Try to provide value around a pain point Gain their trust first. So discovering customers, Oftentimes a lot of founders, and you can't sell the world if you're a startup. The first thing I get founders you know, what's the company size that's ideal? What's the title? You know, What's the technology that they use? Maybe you find that people who are on AWS Write everything down in detail to some of the modern tools So everybody's familiar with Claycomb is a new tool. There's all these platforms match your ideal customer profile and look for contacts. And then once you do that, list of contacts how do you reach out to them. And that's where kind of my methodology around like provide value and then ask for a meeting comes into play. The last thing to keep in mind, there's a lot of talk about emailing people. Emailing is getting very, very noisy. So you have to be a lot more intentional talking about the problem you solve? Is it a conference? Is it LinkedIn? Is it Reddit? Is it Twitter? So then there's this whole strategy around to find people where they're Sometimes it could be And then from there you figure out So I think really good tech salespeople that their technology is from the future, in the most effective way. One of the things that is really it's a give and take relationship. If you want your buyer to divulge or that might be sensitive or something you also need A lot of great salespeople are. They can be very, very honest And that opens up the other side So that's that's one thing. Let's say I tell a buyer like, hey, because I don't feel like I did a Do you feel that's the case? You know, that's very vulnerable, right, I didn't do a good job on the sales call, but psychologically what happens oh, Peter's being very honest and vulnerable. Let me also share with them equal to that level of question or answer or information. So I think that's one thing. The second thing is you have to be able to mirror people, and if you and you also need to be able to take and follow up with more questions of why people are saying certain things. I think that's the second part. The third part to build trust and EQ really good at your craft. You need to understand your industry Because in this day and age, You're not going to be able to hold if you're a surface level or if you're not able to show that you know or that you're an expert in your field, those are like three tangible things. The other thing I would say about building people a lot in different environments. So if I were just on zoom calls all day, but I try to meet people for coffee. Like I try to vary things, or dinners with people and, you know, like spend time around people and really what gives them motivation, both That's the other thing I think with EQ is talking about your product or business. You have to have a genuine interest And if you don't have a genuine interest, a set of questions about the weather they have, like those are very trained. But the question is, And how do you actually remember people's and ask more about their interests? I think the reason why I was I have a genuine passion for technology the technology than my competition. And then the second thing You know, Dropbox had ping pong tables, And I never played a game Maybe I did, actually once or twice. But I always pride myself And clients notice that if you're if you're the fastest person to get back that is a lot of what customers to understand that when there's a problem, So the other reason is because I took outlier characteristics and turned them into superpowers. I'll give a very tangible example. Initially, as a kid growing up, I was not very confident speaking English. I teach people how to communicate, because I've actually created phrases So when I need to buy more time to think, that or that's a great question, but I Or can we go back to what you said A lot of these phrases were designed and I think it resonates with a lot of because they can imagine of the conversation down for them. So turning something like that The other thing, too, is I thought to be an Asian salesperson because there But then I decided to actually lean into or karaoke bars instead of steakhouses So I think a lot of like putting also made me successful My vision is to teach sales not for them, and to get them confident in or existing sales teams, change the focus not just only on numbers individuals to feel like they have And so I'd love to start and how important that is, and the nuance of communication as an example of how to do great business, or sales bro culture or something else. I do believe sales can change the world. I think right now there's a lot of waste and I think a lot of people are getting And so I think a great way is if we can start making a dent in that, where people feel like salespeople who are trying to buy their next Ferrari. The other way I think sales can change salespeople are the best communicators. When you're trying to give your as a diplomat with another country. I think it's sales. Like if you're good at sales, with countries as well, right? If you're a diplomat. So I think like my dream would be like and they're like, wow, I don't want I want to learn how to communicate, I want to learn That would be like a dream. I think the most important thing in sales If you're not confident, And then the other thing with sales and of a thought leader expert as possible because sales is a lot So if you're able to confidently you'll do very well in sales.