(singing) union organization have filed legal papers to shut the federal agency that enforces labor rights SpaceX, as well as Amazon Starbucks, and Trader Amazon Starbucks and Trader Joe's of breaking well as accusing SpaceX of illegally firing eight get the federal courts to overturn the 89-year-old labor relations since Franklin Roosevelt was workers by corporations and Wall Street. Laws and steadily dismantled. The NLRB, for example, It is unable to fine corporations for breaking the are attempting to organize. If NLRB judges are challenge, it would halt judges from hearing for violating labor laws. This latest attack assault that includes the mass layoffs of workers at workers' expense. This assault has not only it has not only seen wealth funneled upwards but has had negative repercussions for our society betrayal of the working-class, especially in of a demagogue like Donald Trump. Rather than assault are demonized as ignorant, racist bigots. are written off as a lost cause politically. The between the decline of the Democratic Party and that ship manufacturing jobs to Mexico and China. New York Times columnist Paul Krugman, that populist base in America is a fiction. Even the it turns out, was not in fact a white to dismiss the white working-class rather than to act is ominous. As labor journalist Hamilton as the captains of the ship are actually the thing from the inside until it sinks.&quot; and how it imperils what is left of who co-founded the Labor Institute and is the Layoffs and Greed Are Destroying the working-class makes a very convincing case that the defection which is largely often rural, is caused by this and statistics and charts to back it up, but I you lay out the cost, the emotional cost to the seventh considered the seventh most stressful than recovery from the psychological trauma of job developing new health conditions rise by 83%. And talk about just to begin what that job instability Well, I saw this in my own family. My father through a mass layoff, it was traumatic. He felt my mother had a full-time job, and so we didn't pretty worthless. Another fortunate thing was the early 1960s and when the economy picked to hold it for the rest of his career. But today That's when you'd see mass layoffs. Corporate thought it was a sign of their own failure. Now bad times, it doesn't matter. So you're seeing layoff and it's totally debilitating. You It becomes increasingly hard to make ends meet and about the economy, the economy, the economy. its economy can't produce a modicum of stable start losing faith in the system all around them. in this environment. It's no accident that people just feel let down and they don't know where to I see a few politicians who are brave enough to Sharon Brown in Ohio, but most people just where they talk about jobs in the future. That's I'm all for the infrastructure bills, I'm all create jobs in the future, but what is it Now, we had a plant go down in Olean, New Pennsylvania, very rural, once very industrial. a battery factory is opened up in Buffalo three, you. You're being told, &quot;Move. Take your family this kind of pressure has been studiously as you've mentioned, explained it very well. between the rise of mass layoffs in especially Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, and the decline not just during the Trump election. And the that the white working, especially in these They are not a basket full of deplorables. estimate nationally, maybe max 3% would fit Let me just give you the one statistic that a years ago whether gay or lesbian couples should be on average, only about 38% said they approved for religious reasons or something. Another one, because this is the one you would think would &quot;Do you approve of granting citizenship to no felonies and have been paying their taxes?&quot; that statement. Now it's 61.6%. Almost two thirds path to legalization for undocumented workers.&quot; So President Obama said... There's a certain this away. He said, &quot;Yeah, we know that they've we can do about it because it's the forces of and besides that, it's their fault that they're them do that.&quot; Well, it turns out we saw no We saw no evidence that they're cling to their more racist, they're getting more liberal, but they're disgusted that no one is reaching on the back or wear a hoodie and make them feel actually intervene and stop mass layoffs. That's mass layoffs and the tricks that Wall Street plays We should just be clear, as you made clear in changed with the rise of corporate raters, we and I did a good interview with the Pulitzer Gretchen Morgenson on her book on private equity. So the model changes where a private equity firm its assets, in essence to destroy it. They're we'll go back to certainly Clinton would go back decades, seen wave after wave of mass layoffs. I and wrote a chapter out of Anderson, Indiana. paying jobs, a middle class city. They literally Mexico where they pay workers $3 an hour, and all of the attendant problems that you point And yet the Democratic Party just utterly Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders had golden significant mass layoffs, one in Morgantown, West New York, the failure to act contrast sharply successful effort to prevent the carrier global facility to Mexico in 2017. And I think this don't pick up on, although of course he's a directly in a way that no other democratic Bernie Sanders, and Sherrod Brown, of course. of all, it was a very self-conscious effort on from Reagan on to rip up the new deal just like you talked about the NLRB, that's basically these corporate raiders, the harvesters that was frowned upon, that was easily stopped. Well, I just want to interrupt stock buybacks were used to be illegal. that no more than 2% of corporate profits could to 70% of all corporate profits in society, and and hundreds spend more than a hundred percent of taking their money and returning it... Returning not investors. These are stock sellers and these that swoop in demand the stock buyback. to Mexico, not to keep up with the competition, a bunch of hedge funds took a position in that buyback.&quot; So they figured, &quot;Oh, we can save division to Mexico,&quot; and Trump did intervene. The but I connected with the president of the union a mile in pharmaceuticals, and there's a whole and she got like a hundred million. and then sell them for hundreds of dollars, aside. She was gone and the new owner wants to and they're making generic products. former oil, chemical atomic workers, progressive our revolution to support them. They appealed to they appealed to Manchin. They even suggested company and then we'll produce generic products right? Nobody did anything. So 1500 of the than coal in all of West Virginia 1500 and this was when they could have used the the baby formula just before this period, but they This was such an easy way to bring national mass layoffs.&quot; It's funny, the president of United &quot;Well, why did you give into Trump?&quot; He goes, &quot;I We get 10% of our revenue comes from federal federal contracts. What if you told them, &quot;Guess no more stock buybacks.&quot; You don't want to do else set up. You can use the bully pulpit. You can whoa, wait a second. You're messing with you know what? These large corporations are this is another sad one, that Olean plant 90,000 employees was spun off, but still connected based company. Well, 1700 US workers lost their compressor for oil rigs or fracking or something. but because they have codetermination including high-level union officials. They did pressure tactics, and the company agreed to no was really mind-blowing. In other words, you otherwise you can't get rid of them. The six were shutting down, they agreed to put something so that could be part of your federal contract. no stock buybacks. But you have to interfere That takes guts. And I keep asking myself, &quot;Don't in Ohio?&quot; Bernie in Vermont and Elizabeth Warren but Ohio Brown outpaced Trump by 15% in 2020. So protect their jobs, and it just has to happen. up. They're going to see what Trump did. that was enormously popular with the American they're going to wake up and say, &quot;You know because they're too woke or for diversity, Now, you make an interesting point that... Reminds Israel unless we stop the arms shipments, leverage. So the Democrats have no leverage won't halt these massive government contracts. but when Biden does his infrastructure bill, signs woman, who just eradicated all sorts of jobs Yeah. what's happened is Schumer's famous line from &quot;For every blue collar worker we lose in Republicans in the suburbs,&quot; and that goes for essentially telling people, you're writing than there are rural working-class people or it's not just rural. You're talking about Staten urban areas. We found no difference, by the way, rural, or suburban amongst the white They don't want to be buffeted from their a recent study, and they were asking people what person, they said, &quot;Greed, it's rigged.&quot; It's and that the Wall Streeters are walking off with are too eager to get campaign donations and good Wall Street job after they leave office. Too permeated into the political culture. Everybody it, and that's a very small number of people. a feeling, it's a fact. And so not only do like Barack Obama or the Clintons, but leave office. There's payback. Speaking fees, donations to their foundations, which allow them et cetera. It's just legalized bribery. they want to lose? Why would so many Democrats working-class populations, why do they want with the title Wall Street's War on Workers. He '18, '19. Why don't people see that they could stopping these mass layoffs opposing Wall Street What blew my mind is I believe that that framework statistical work that we did to sort of prove Mike Luxe, the Democratic pollster. He's no year ago called Factory Towns, and his conclusion &quot;The working-class wouldn't care that much about economy.&quot; Substitute the word mass layoffs for now we discover that Sheriff Brown's onto this Well, plus they'd win by a landslide if Deal reforms. But the Democratic leadership they wouldn't exist because they're creatures that they're funded by corporations, but flow of campaign or corporate donations to go down in their privileged first class cabins there was a pivot where they actually challenged exists presently would be eradicated. In a fair Bernie Sanders would've beat Hillary Clinton I agree. I agree. The story in the book is the story of Mingo County, West Virginia. Yeah, sure. This is the opioid capital. a small county in West Virginia. it had 3,300 coal jobs, he got 69.7% of the the Democrat got less and less and less and less, amount. You'd get more than that by far. If I could run your campaign and get you more than This is where Mother Jones came and spoke during basically a war going on there between the United thugs that were hired by the coal industry. In there to basically put it under martial law. Mountain for three days. They fought them off. unions were recognized. The United Mine Workers and they rewarded the Democrats with their votes. 2020 in a county that has 23,000 people in it? so this was the perfect place for the Democrats go from town to town, ask people what they need, need. They're going to say, we need better are falling apart, build new roads. We don't have facilities, produce more healthcare facilities. Bring conservation corps in, clean those places There were tens of thousands of jobs to be thousands that could have been created just anything nor did the Republicans, but we didn't where they rely on the private sector. What did this up. A guy who just got out of prison being fill out prescriptions so that he could put out drugstore competed with the first. That's free of the market. This little county became the pill was the 22nd largest distributor of opioids Chicago, Los Angeles, Houston, no, Number 22. You think these people are going handful of jobs in a drugstore. This is, to destroy yourself politically, I couldn't Wall Street came in and fed on the carcass tried to rip the health benefits away from the UMW Union fought them very hard, but a lot of coal And we have to stop that. Progressives have to and not fight mass layoffs and not fight Wall this is all okay, and the system's going to work it flows to the bottom, not to the top. allows those stock buybacks. Don't let them put a corporate rate. Don't let them use borrowed play a completely differently, and there wouldn't then I'll stop pontificating here, is that, &quot;Okay, what we've told people to do. &quot;Maybe you can't will be fine.&quot; Have you have a bright new the high-tech industry did probably a hundred they pay for it? They did 260,000 mass layoffs. sector through mass layoffs another 50,000 so Don't get me going. Then people say, &quot;Well, no, that's doing it.&quot; Baloney. There's no indication I take it back. Maybe the dismissal notices but that's not why these jobs were lost. Stock of technology is that, yes, jobs change, but it's dozens of studies done on technology that's not By the way, I don't think trade is either. I think the corporate trade agreements, the kind of which over the years. This all can be stopped. Human human agency can stop it, but we need a movement So the Democrats and the Republicans in every the electorate that could have undecided voter, in the book, they write off a whole segments of the book. &quot;The Democrats currently are leaving working-class non Democrats who are moderately to This translates into approximately 10 to 25 people who are non-Democrats. Given how close should be considered political malpractice.&quot; That was one of the most amazing findings we There's data long-term, not like polling before could break the electorate into seven different Republican leaning people who were working we ran all these questions through that pool, of these rabid Republicans and heavily leaning the thing that triggered them, the one problem put together by people like you or Gretchen. So but they have a couple that hint that way. One was on trade job loss, and the responses People were really angry and worried about those to the fundamental point. There are millions conservatives who are freaked out about job loss don't. Here's the other little thing we noticed. of workshops, and what I've noticed is that when that the Democrats can't protect them, they lean well do deregulation or something because that's Let's help the companies.&quot; Maybe they'll protect 6% of the private sector in trade unions. That's fight against mass layoffs. People start leaning And we have to talk about trade deals because Hillary Clinton that was trying to push through barriers so that sweatshops in China, Vietnam, brought back into the United States at virtually for Monterey, Mexico. They still sell at the same it goes in the pockets of the CEOs and the these trade deals have been devastating to the Oh, absolutely. The idea of structuring a trade corporations help write these trade deals, and the Wall Street part of it, but we're finding the drive for profits to use them is not to fend cashflow for the stock buybacks. I'd like to deal that says, guess what? You can use this We're not going to allow you to recycle money not going to allow you to lay the other thing those two things to a trade deal the and you change the way trade happens globally. but in more recent years, they're often tied like buybacks. So that little loophole that started the same Mack truck that's coming up from Mexico. thought this was a very important point. ruthless anti-communist campaign, a campaign that that. That's not you. In less feral in forms, the loyalty oath instituted by President Truman's not create the blacklist that harmed the careers for McCarthy as the most primarily an elite the same is true today. Explain what you mean. called The Intellectuals of McCarthy by Michael P. Sociology establishment of basically the '50s totalitarianism rise? Why do you have Mussolini people have no trash, minorities, trash, all kinds have them? Well, the theory simply put was masses wild, and the proof of McCarthy's masses run wild of, had a populous governor, Congressman had a the populous movement of the 1880s and 1890s and And McCarthy was popular in Wisconsin, and McCarthyism. Well, this guy Rogan did something which is let's take a look at what actually the old populous districts, and it turns out they his strength. The ideology didn't come from the Republican intellectuals. The base, the most doctors, lawyers, real estate agents and he says the elites allowed him to do his attacks, his ruining people's careers. Eisenhower for the first time turned on him, and had the Republicans turned on Trump, we wouldn't get to that in a second. So his claim was, it's an well, you mentioned January 6th. Well, let's great work. On the surface, it looks like it's this pluralistic argument that it's the masses of Chicago has a project where they look at the are arrested, and they're disproportionately Let me just read the figures. I have them 54% were white collar or business owners, only No college decree and 25% at a college degree. I see a basket full of lawyers, thousands of them. Thousands of them. That's the guts of his power standing up anywhere front. Yeah, they put them in look a certain way, and he gets a lot of rural And so I think that there's a strong parallel same thing if the elite opinion makers in his own have done, you're going to have him succeed. have no popular support. There's See, I think if we just dig down one more level, Well, I'm sure it's slightly different, but one and riding Trump's coattails. If you see a and if nothing's blocking it, you're going to are money and power policies, policies that good jobs in the future, prominence, fame, Republicans actually believe what they're saying, saying is, &quot;I want fame, power, and glory, Well, as you point out in the book, however uneasy community in Nazi Germany had no problem working they shut down all the unions. Capitalism, and as with totalitarianism. I just want to read this The white working-class for this dereliction of mistake the plural is made with McCarthyism. The on authoritarianism, racism, sexism, xenophobia, Authoritarianism can only irreparably damage the authoritarians to account. Liberals too can working-class for the sins of these elites. Yeah. Well, you wrote it. It's all right. But you nailed it. That's it. And that is the of our time in that unless the Democratic we're finished. when Trump comes back into it isn't going to be like the last time Well, look, I came up through the 1960s, and on there, and there was a lot of struggle, but I was going to break even with all the bombings I never want to live through that again, and I was in the South. I saw it firsthand, but I had for democracy. I am worried now because threatened the very essence of what people need talked about for a community is also the death their family down, letting themselves down. now threatened. I hate to pin all my hopes on the that Shawn Fain at the UAW is onto something. He's the class as a whole. When he talks, when he got like that. That's a sign to me that he understands him do is to create, in a sense, a nonpartisan something anybody can join, and a very simple buybacks, no more leveraged buyouts. Very simple. would give him leads to organize. Look, I'm and comrades, but something has to break where not enough shared Browns or Bernie Sanders and to get them to be enough, you need something I was impressed with what happened with the UAW, America are very, very good. By the way, they run runaway and equality book, and now based on this they spend like a million dollars a year educating that there's some hope there. But we need a lot- One of the fundamental roles of Exactly. That was a trusted source of information. the business sector and unions, we got problems. need that private sector organized and where if that goes, you are not going to see hardly any form of feudalism. You're back to the Mother going to be against the law to organize, and we you've got a guy like Jamie Demon from a CEO of JP we can work with Trump. He's already said it. the nominee, he'd work for Trump, one What's interesting, the UAW strike was really was actually a majoritarian support for a strike, it's that basic system, a little model I put corporations and the Democrats aren't protecting The Starbucks workers, we're working with these education. They understand. They're telling capitalism enough. He says, &quot;Workers are totally every day.&quot; They're basically throw away people. Work them to death, and then get somebody else. We Not another [inaudible 00:51:44] Square, Arab You need an organization that actually has But we also need an organization that has only weapon working-class people have to fight Yeah. If they take that away, Well, that's what we're watching it right Anyway. I'm going to be a little optimistic. to be optimistic. The book's not as Oh, I don't know. I think we You're right. You're right. to sell truth. Not sell it, but say it. unless you face up to it. had a pollyannish view of their own immortality front of us and then we have to resist. But I it. I think it's a really, really important That was Les Leopold, co-founder of the Labor on Workers: How Mass layoffs and Greed are About it. I want to thank The Real News Network Adam Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivera.