This morning I was messing around with TNT cannons, something I haven't done in absolutely ages. And I was just playing around with the mechanics and seeing how they functioned and how I could build really powerful ones And I kind of came up with the challenge that may or may not be impossible, here comes a super-fast explanation We've got a dirt block surrounded by obsidian And that dirt block is 100 blocks away from the front of this TNT cannon; and is also on the same level as the TNT cannon. Now the idea is... ...that the TNT cannon will be so big and so powerful that it will fire the piece of TNT... ...horizontally straight across and explode on impact, meaning that we essentially have a gun in Minecraft. As you can see though, we're still quite far off. So I guess test number one is to double the quantity of TNT that we already have, I mean that's got to be a good start. And three, two, one, and... Oh, that was pretty close! Well, maybe this challenge is easier than I was expecting, that's frustrating Now I think my first approach for this video is just going to be pure brute force We have got a lot of dispensers right here with a lot of TNT. It's not the biggest TNT... ...cannon I've ever seen: but it's definitely of a decent size if you hit the button and travel back a bit What? That was a direct hit! We actually just did it! I'm gonna change up some of the repeater timings for this so that hopefully the TNT just explodes on impact And then we'll basically have like a laser gun; people are not gonna see that coming. I don't have a good feeling about this Look how soon that TNT gets dispensed is three ticks!? Oh my word! It didn't even have time to render Single Block Target, now this is a challenge for any TNT cannon let alone one that's 100 blocks away! But by Jove has it just done it. Oh Yeah, I could just end the video here I Don't know why I'm surprised by this sort of thing, but that is That is truly epic Now that my challenge is well and truly out the window. I kind of want to experiment with different powers and also different distances for those of you who have been Subscribed for a very long time you might remember this thing right here the famous mumbo jumbo porter loo Let's see what eight high-speed pieces of tnt do to that lovely looking structure there honestly, I think at this point this is less of like A YouTube video or more of just a me having fun with tnt and Minecraft which is something that I've not done for far too long Let's see let's see what happens in this situation, okay? This should literally be referred to as the structure Deleter What you don't even see it? Go that is terrifying I left a piece of obsidian here So that I knew where to build the structures, but other than that, it's just gone What on Earth do we do here? I think the answer to that is make it bigger increase our distance and increase the stopping power that's probably the only answer we've got now we are working to the edge of our render distance that thing is 160 blocks away, and I wouldn't have thought I Don't know how I've managed to pull it off, but I've actually hit a sweet spot when it comes to the tnT cannon this thing I Mean it could Destroy single dirt blocks from 150 blocks away, reliably The funniest thing about this is that I tried removing this top layer of Redstone right here, and it doesn't work So this is like the minimum number of dispensers that you can set up To do this, and I just lucked out and got it pretty much first time That is the stupidest thing. I don't know why I'm so blown away by this But I truly am this is the perfect example of a video that perhaps Didn't necessarily follow its original plan, but it's definitely taking an interesting Direction now I'm testing out if we can fire tnt through all of these holes and have it still hit the right Target This I I refuse to believe it will do this. He goes. I'm so excited. I truly truly am rubbing my hands together No so it dips a tiny bit by the second one uh Yeah You know what I'm thinking guys Know exactly what I'm thinking I want to see if I can try and do it so I think the first thing I should try is taking this up to Redstone Limit, so that is the height limit reached by the Redstone signal strength Which I think we are getting pretty close to we might be able to get one more layer out of this No, okay, so that is the final layer So this is how tall it's going to be of course we can experiment with repeater timings later on if this doesn't quite do it And I'm more than ready to accept that this is probably one of my stupidest ideas for a redstone video yet But I am absolutely having way too much fun to stop now I Think everything's in place now. I know I thought my original challenge was impossible, but I genuinely think this one might be impossible. Oh Ok so we got through the second one, but we took out the third More Tnt That's all we need here now all be the first to admit that maybe things escalated to a point that was past What we all expected But sometimes these things have to be done in the name of science And this is very very important science that we are conducting here. This is the super omega atom Blaster 9000 It definitely the accent needs a little bit work, and maybe the name as well I should probably also back up the world before I fire this thing Let's just kind of skip through my head, so everybody place your bets place your bets is this thing actually going to work? No Good thing I made that back are they having an tea place to water down at the bottom now? Let's give it a go right, so the TmT has fallen We have shot a piece of tnT Through these hoops and it is taken out a single block at the end This is the least scientific but But whose happiness? Inducing experiment. I've ever done in Minecraft. You know what might as well. I'm going to add an extra especially difficult You know what we're gonna make this scientific We're gonna space out the hoops 25 blocks apart all the way up to the dirt block It has been so long since I've just made a silly video like this I Mean I never thought when I woke up this morning that I would be building situations like this They're almost actually work it took out the final final hoop, but also the dirt block I Wonder if that could be due to the quantity of tnt that we're firing or potentially even the delay running into these Well actually need to increase it. Let's see I see if that has any effect whatsoever That test unfortunately didn't work. We actually ended up taking out both of these ones So I've reduced the quantity of tnt that's actually being fired in the hopes that maybe that comes down like the spread I guess This is it has our cannon actually met his match Hmm. Maybe it has Wait, don't tell me. I'm gonna have to go bigger here I actually wonder if we're going to run into an interesting problem with this one in that the team might actually blow up Before it reaches the bottom of this thing Hmm. We may have reached another pound the stage is set and we are ready to go for about the fiftieth time in today's episode I am pressing a button and I'm going to observe the tnt it has fallen and it just destroyed the Block without taking out any of the other hoops We have absolutely nailed it a hundred and fifty blocks traveled by that tnt staying well within The one block area can you imagine That is seriously stupid? That is seriously so stupid We have made the stupidest silliest Daftest tnt cannon I think in all of Minecraft, and it's absolutely beautiful and if you're wondering what the world the real-world? Implications for this would be I'm about to show you but I kind of want to try out again I want to see if this thing is actually reliable or if we have just got really lucky there no, it's perfect I Can't believe it. So here we have John's rather lovely looking tower He's just built it is his new house on the server, and he's looking really cool little does He know that behind that one block high Gap right there really would be difficult to spot There's an enormous tnt cannon trained on his location Now all this player has to do is hit this button and that will activate it shooting a piece of tnT hopefully Through that hole things have definitely slowed down somewhat This is so strange. It's almost like we've got like time dilation Was there an explosion there John's house is still definitely there? goodbye I love it. I absolutely Love this thing it is definitely one of my favorites Stupidest, but best Redstone contraptions I've ever created in my entire life look the tunnel is completely unchanged But John's tower has just been erased off the face of the Earth This is brilliant. I hope you enjoyed this video if you did please go to that like button And if you really loved it, then make sure to subscribe, but thanks for watching guys This is been Mumbo , and I'm out I'll see you later Oh, and of course check out the latest film on the filming channel. I almost forgot