Blake Lively has had issues with many celebrities, both past and present. And you won't Before Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively were a 2008 before splitting in 2010. Do you know Green Lantern featuring none other than Ryan and ended in August 2010. People on set said they which was intense. They were giggly and flirty that set. The crazy thing about this is that they Penn Badgley and Ryan being married to Scarlett. that Ryan and Blake had something going on between they spent lots of time alone together, and Three months after the press tour, Blake broke his split from Scarlett, who said Ryan was However, Scarlett once spoke about the without mentioning names, saying, &quot;The logistics especially when two people's careers are going successful than the other, that also proves Since she's now married to Colin Jost, who has actress was referring to Ryan. However, affect a relationship with a fellow actor, and she and Ryan divorced. In 2010, a source told &quot;Ryan can be an overbearing control freak. He's The speculations revealed that Ryan didn't than he was. And with It Ends with Us drama people are beginning to connect the dots that he The rumors got even crazier after Ryan and Blake have a romantic dinner &quot;It was just the two of them, and they like a date. If you didn't know who they This and many other reasons are why people Ryan's split. Although the parties involved Ryan and Blake spoke about some exciting Ryan mentioned that it happened a year &quot;We were buddies then. I remember it was funny date. She was on a date with another guy, So, the official story is that they were both left their exes and realized they were the allegations aren't going away because recently dropped a bombshell that Ryan did cheat Cat said, &quot;Fun fact: Blake Lively and still married to ScarJo and holed up in a Another fun fact is that they filmed Green claimed that they had become romantic with each Ryan crushed these stories from getting Although being friends with an ex's partner is both work in the same industry. But then, it's is deeper than that, which means it has more to said there is a lingering tension between avoid each other by making sure they aren't at been speculated that Scarlett hates Blake for Henry Golding may not have had any direct issues set of A Simple Favor, but he was under a lot stars alongside Anna Kendrick and Blake, and two actresses on set despite playing complicated grew up admiring Anna and Blake on screen and &quot;It was quite a small set. It's easy to get days where I was like, 'What am I doing? Why questioned his confidence many times because While Henry's encounter with Blake might actress and being nervous when he finally have been rumors that it's also because making Henry uncomfortable. Henry was asked an interview, and even though he replied he seemed pretty terrified talking So, that brings us to another celebrity who has massive feud between Anna and Blake while on the went back on set to film the film's sequel, which they were filming in September 2017, and the was making fun of Taylor Swift, which didn't Anna has also been reported to be rude to which makes it possible that she may have to a podcaster who claimed they were informed also clashed over displaying cleavages on the with Blake and was constantly asking to make sure us photoshop her cleavage in The Simple Favor Then, in an interview, they had a moment that in their body language. Although the two actresses social media has functions where she can mute Further details started coming out about with the screenshot shared by the worker other and weren't speaking by the end of but the studio had to talk to them and tell which didn't seem to help because many manner that people took seriously. Although like it when they had another interview with a call-time change that left Anna waiting &quot;That was the day I decided I hated you. We were something similar to her face again while they have been put to rest now that they got to work Blake also had a bitter relationship with her they weren't enemies who hated each other, they would have loved. And there were many instances costumes and even screen time. The feud was didn't want to be outshined and wanted to be the there was another drama over outfits where Blake budget. Blake felt she had the most success important details were carried out without Joshua Safran, later spoke on their relationship friends. They were friendly but not friends both have different personalities, and no major they started avoiding each other at a time on Although the royal princess, Kate Middleton, way around when Blake made fun of Kate over the Blake posted a photoshopped image of herself company, which she later apologized for after Penn Badgley was also romantically involved with set of Gossip Girl. Although they shared some first iPhone and saving him from drinking because However, Penn was heartbroken, and destroyed him. After filming, Penn saying half of his belongings were in confirmed he was a little lost and trying to find he was stuck with Blake on the set of Gossip Leonardo DiCaprio had a fascinating history with Titanic actor is famously known to date ladies are usually Victoria's Secret models. While Leonardo. Although the relationship didn't last they were captured going on dates and vacations had a weird relationship where Blake would always feelings. These pictures never made it to the them isn't well understood, but random However, the issue started when Leonardo wanted proposing to settle down with Blake. And Weekly details behind the breakup, to the next level. It was just too much, too Sadly, the breakup shook Leonardo, affecting the heartbreak, he locked himself in his trailer and the film's director, Baz Luhrmann, at the that set. Soon after that, Blake started ahead to get married to the actor. However, When Blake and Leo came across each other at the they were too happy to see each other and teased venue said that Leo would wink and smile anytime very hard to avoid Leo's stares, they both of Ryan, who was furious. The source mentioned but she couldn't help it. It was also didn't want Leo to be aware since he shares After that episode, there was little except that they've grown apart since and Blake is happily married. he isn't pleased with Blake because she's too It might be strange to find Zendaya on this Kors fashion show where it seems Zendaya was according to body language experts. Emily Zendaya. Zendaya replied to the speculations with Speaking about subtle shades, Blake's also threw a shade at Blake when he said for him to fall in love with her on set. then Blake added that Brandon preferred rehearsing The last celebrity on this list is Justin Blake, the recent drama surrounding It crisis manager says a lot. But he also sent directing It Starts with Us. Apparently, about their alleged feud over directing and