She's Robin Hooded an arrow, which is where you shoot an arrow down the back of another arrow. It's actually really hard It's a lot easier to do 'cause they're a tube of carbon. My name's Jim Kent. I'm also known as Grizzly Jim, I've been shooting the bow Today, we're going to be from TV and film and seeing He's got what we call a I tend to shoot with a It opens up the sight windows. If your bow is up straight like that, generally the thing you're trying to shoot is going to be hidden by the bow. So I tend to drop the bow which is what he's doing. He's clearly pointing one way, but you can see the arrow in his hand pointing the other way. And a lot of people call The archer's paradox is the fact that the arrow is pointing off to the left when you're actually pointing That's the paradox. And it's the flexing of the arrow that makes it travel downrange. Could I kill this dude running away? Depends on the distance. I am only really accurate up to probably about 30 meters. I'd get him eventually. See, I'd be zigging and zagging. I'd be serpentining. There is a type of archery called clout typically done by English longbow archers, which is long-distance shooting where you'd shoot at a flag in the ground 100 meters, 200 yards away, shooting up, shooting So there are people that can shoot very, very well at long range. Medieval longbow archers The bow looked like it had where you've got the basic bow, and then you'd have another set of limbs that come off the front. So that limb is attached to that limb, and that limb is attached to that limb, and that gives you way more power. So it would be perfect for that kind of killing-dudes-running-away I'm going to give it a 9 for Compound bow is typically sort of either a target Basically, you can adjust the and if you wind them in, it gives you a little bit more power. And I think what he's doing there is maximizing his power Now, you can buy arrows That's not how arrows work. That's just asking for trouble. There are points in an arrow that flex. And if you are cutting an arrow into three and assembling it, it's not [laughs] That there, that's John There was a type of and it came in a case like that. I think that's just the case Shooting left-handed, so that's OK. But I know later on, he The arrow flight on that is utter garbage. I mean, he's shooting it OK. He's shooting a compound off Compounds tend to use a release aid, which gives you a much straighter release. I mean, this type of bow, the higher the poundage gets. A compound bow starts So you can hold it at full They're a little bit more No! Grenade-tipped arrow? Yeah, they do exist. Whether or not they're commercially Everything else looked really good. The way he was setting up the bow, the way he was changing his I like that. And the fact that he shot the but if you got a grenade it probably would fly like that. So, weirdly, I think it's I'm going to give &quot;Rambo&quot; an 8. [bell thuds] There's a huge tennis ball The more weight you put the less efficient it's going to be. It's just not going to go very far. Kate: Let me just fix She has a little grabber or something on the end of that arrow. Again, that's going to It's not a case of one arrow fits all. Arrows come in spine weights, and that refers to the And obviously certain bows So the higher the poundage the bow, the stiffer the arrow needs So by adding a lot of weight you dynamically weaken so therefore the arrow would be outspined, and it would probably just and not hit the bell at all. You can shoot something called a blunt, which is a flat arrowhead, which would be for either dump shooting, shooting tin cans, that kind of thing, or small-game hunting. She's moving her arm up. And when you're shooting at distance, whether it's low down or high up, you don't really move your arm. You move from the waist. So you kind of pivot your whole body, not just your arm up and down. That's something I just spotted. [bell dings] The shot itself, not But her shooting is pretty good. We'll go 5. 5 out of 10. In the middle. Ready your bows! Fire! You've got really long arrows there. It looks like she's only using one above, one below. I've seen people do that. And she's got quite an overdraw there. She's got this explosive release, which, again, in order to make a good archery shot, you need to keep it concise and simple. Because something like that, you're not going to be able to repeat it time and time again. If you've got a simple you can repeat that. You've got to be safe And I imagine that bow was but it was probably such low poundage and had such a stretchy string that it goes straight back to being a straight piece of wood. The distance between the lowest point of that's called the brace height. If your brace height is too low, your bow becomes very noisy. It becomes quite quick, And you're really, really in danger of getting some real nasty Shooting multiple arrows what happens is, all the energy comes from the limbs and And what that does, it And the heavier the arrow the more energy it needs to sort of get that arrow But if you're shooting the bow doesn't know there's It just thinks there's Two arrows is double the weight, and the more arrows you put on, the heavier weight that to push the arrows through the air. And it basically just takes We'll give &quot;Wonder Woman&quot; Curse this dress! In order to shoot well, you So I think the fact that and she can't shoot properly, Archery is all about The less influence you the better the arrow is going to fly. So if you're influencing the shot, the shot's not going to go right. So if you can keep which she's doing, she's coming back on the same plane as the Archery is all about being able to repeat the shot time and time again. There's a famous book called which is all about archery. And if you can replicate your you will be a fantastic archer. She seems to have a nice Now, look at this loose. The trick is, with archery, you don't let go of the string. The trick is to try and no So you've got to relax your If you're kind of trying to open your hand as hard as you can, you'll The string is going to be quicker than your reactions across the board. So if you can just get your anchor point and then relax your hand you're going to get a and you can see her hand just relaxes. A lot of people think arrows If you watch an arrow in slow motion, it's like a wet noodle going downrange. She's Robin Hooded an arrow, which is where you shoot an arrow down the back of another arrow. And the grain tends to split, but the grain never down the back of an arrow. It It's actually really hard It's a lot easier to do 'cause they're a tube of to kind of put an arrow down That's 10. One of the best representations of the way an arrow and Stark, got a lot of Trying to work out what bow that is. Obviously he's got some gadgets on it. That could be a modified He's using a finger and thumb draw, which isn't really necessarily going to work for that kind of thing. Hawkeye, that's a bit of a mess, dude. He's got a shooting glove, He's got a couple of That's what's called a Beiter armguard. That's just a make of armguard. Thin strip of plastic, and it just protects you from the string as it sort of vibrates back Sometimes it can just catch your arm and just give you a little sting. So you tend to have a It just protects you. Traditional archers tend to wear a bit more of a leather kind of bracer. You wouldn't wear two unless you're doing Well, they can't bank worth a damn. If you can't look at it, how The trend with these is that there's never It's always just pull it back and let it go from whatever which is fine, but you're not going to get that kind of level of Like, he's shooting moving targets. Now, there is a famous trick shot, but you're looking in a mirror. And I've tried it and um ... almost succeeded. He's got, what, maybe 36 arrows maximum when he first starts? It's like films with guns. You get people shooting, ch, ch, ch, ch, ch, ch, and they never seem to have to reload. But it looks like it's fun, so I'm going to have to give it 4. Too slow! Fast as you can. Again! Come on. People can knock arrows out of the air. It's not something I 'cause if you get it wrong, I want people to enjoy archery, but I also want people to be really safe when it comes to archery. There's a huge safety element to it. Although a bow isn't classed as a weapon, it's classed as sporting goods, it can be used as a weapon. He's shooting arrows at the guy, and he's knocking them out of the air. I'd hate for some kids to and do it and get hurt. It would break my heart. Try the other side. It will save you a second on the reload. He gets to show him a Now, this all came from that came out a few years back, and it kind of turned the And it suggested that you took the arrow from the left side of the bow which goes from essentially to an Eastern style of archery. Changing anything in Takes time for your body to and going from one side it would take time. Come on! Again! Faster! Yes! If you shoot the arrow on with a Mediterranean release, one finger above the what happens is the arrow which isn't ideal. And there are people that can shoot a Mediterranean-style release, like the way they get Robin Got to pull the bow out this way. If you're doing big, dynamic movements to try and get the arrow to go straight, they're very difficult to repeat, so you're not going to be It's just something that I personally am not a huge fan of. There are people that shoot hybrid style, sort of East and West. At the end of the day, you've got to shoot in and that puts the biggest Because it does require a certain amount of stamina to shoot. 'Cause they're not easy to pull back, and you've got to hold for a good few seconds You know, various lifting weights isn't necessarily going to Faster, stronger, faster! That is actually a good archery That's going to do more for You can use stretchy That sort of builds up See, I want to give it a really low score, but I like the working out with the ropes. So I'm going to push it up. I'm going to give it a 4. She's using sound to make a deer move into a more accessible shot, which is fine, but I would imagine a deer would have just From my experience, they're Gale: What are going to do I like it, personally. you come to anchor, and you're there. If you're doing all this, the shot's gone. You need to have focus. She actually has beautiful And she was coached by an Olympic archer called Khatuna Lorig, an Again, a fantastic archer. So her form is an Olympic form, which is fantastic for target archery. Now, she's in a hunting scenario. That type of archery isn't fantastically well in There's so many variables. You're uphill, you're downhill, you're waiting at full draw for She was doing a bit of She was shooting a bird. Shooting a moving target And you wouldn't be able to use an Olympic style of shooting to shoot a moving target. Now, they look like huge plastic feathers, and she's shooting off the shelf. That's not necessarily The sort of bow she's got there is not a million miles That's called a shelf. So And as the arrow passes over, the reason why traditional is because they compress and they don't really Where if you're shooting they're not going to compress and that's going to cause Shooting a broadhead, It's a two-bladed broadhead, and it stuck into the That's kind of how a broadhead would stick into a hard target. Even a light-poundage bow It's not hardwired into the it was just resting there. So I don't think it I mean, I've tried to shoot apples before, and what tends to happen is the arrow just goes So you knock it off But I've yet to pin one to a wall. The type of archery I do, it's I don't use a sight, and I let my mind and my brain and my muscle memory work subconsciously to let me know where to shoot. That's what she's doing Although she's got a very Olympic style, where she's looking at And she nailed it. I've always got a soft spot I'm going to give it a 7. A whole battery of archers is going to really mess some orcs up, which is what's happening there. I can't see the types of but I see in a lot of films people using broadheads and that wouldn't work. There were certain arrow points that were designed to go like a bodkin. It's pointy, but it's bulbous, and it's stiffer, and it was designed to kind His elbow is a bit high, but, yeah, I'll give him that. When you got some big orc dude you're not always going to get a chance to set and make the perfect shot. But in order to speed-shoot you'd need a pretty light-poundage bow. I'm going to go 4, but it's cool. This is more of an Eastern style. His arrow is really short, and it's actually got, like, a piece of bamboo on the arrow attached to the bow where the short arrow will [whistles]. 'Cause obviously the longer The shorter the arrow, the lighter. The lighter something is, the faster it's going to go. So it means you can pull and put maximum, maximum He's using his thumb. Typically you overdraw and relax the hand and and let the string [whistles]. You can see the focus in his face. Breathing is a weird one. Some people hold their breath, some people breathe through the shot. If you're hunting and to sort of come into view, you could be holding for Olympic archers tend to Some people are even quicker. Some people come to full Guess if you can't drop him straight away, you can wound him. And then you can chase him down and poke him with something else. Obviously, if there was a barb on it, you couldn't pull it out. You'd kind of have to pull it through, which, I mean, would be agony. That to me looked like a sharpened stick. So, yeah, you could Medieval archers used to do, when they put their arrow points on, they would put them on with wax. If they hit you, you'd pull it out, the Or if you missed, it landed on the floor, the point would come off, so it couldn't be shot back at you. But, weirdly, archers to be injured by the nock Because when that's in the target, people walk up and stumble and things, and that can be quite sharp. I'm going to give that one 9. Thank you for watching. If you enjoyed that video, then click up there and