Black dough and white dough. This is Hello everyone, I am Alin. The Loess Plateau is one of the four major plateaus in China. It is located in the north of central China. It contains 70% of the loess on the earth. The rugged valleys crisscross the entire Loess Plateau, with a total area of more than 600,000 square kilometers. The loess has profound implications for the Chinese people. The significance of this market is that we came to the center of the Loess Plateau in northern Shaanxi to see the flavor and humanities bred on this land. Forty kilometers east of Yulin City is Ephedra Liang Town because the town government is located on a mountain ridge where Ephedra grows. It is named after the appearance of most villages and towns on the Loess Plateau. Rural markets take turns in several surrounding towns seven days a week. Every fourth and ninth day of the lunar calendar is the market day in Mahuangliang Town. The market on the Loess Plateau One of the characteristics of the market is that there are many Miaomiao sellers. Every market day, many villagers from the surrounding area come to the market to buy Miaomiao. Brother Liangpi. I want to ask what kind of seedlings are there. There are all kinds of seedlings. There are all kinds of seedlings. This batch is all vegetables. They are all vegetables. If you buy them, you can plant them. Buy them back. You can plant it. What is the season for sowing here? It's past April 8th. It's the best time to plant seedlings. It 's past April. Oh , is there a lot of rain here ? If there isn't much , how can this crop grow? This kind of seedling is pressed. Are they sold one by one ? Like what kind of seedlings are these? Snail peppers . This is horn pepper . How much does it cost? This is horn pepper. It costs 5 cents. 5 cents. Brother, what kind of seedlings are there on the ground? Sweet potato , sweet potato, oh, The cold noodles and jelly-rolled dough here, shouted in authentic northern Shaanxi dialect, are the most common snacks in northern Shaanxi and are grown on the Loess Plateau. A lot of the wheat on the market is used to make their this is black rolled dough, white rolled dough, this is Liangpi , oh, this is Liangpi , that is, the dough. What kind of dough is that black one made of? This is made of black rice. Black rice . Well, it is made of black rice cold -rolled dough in northern Shaanxi. It has a chewy texture and a few spoons of oil in the seasoning. The spicy pepper tastes particularly fragrant. There is a lot of garlic sold on the market. The garlic here is braided like this. A braid of garlic usually costs 10 yuan. (work safety shoes and cloth shoes, suitable for Weared when doing farm work) (The style of shoes is more suitable for middle-aged and elderly people) (This aunt is holding a newly bought hat) (The sun is strong in summer, and there are many hats for sale in the market) (In front of them, there are Miao Miao for sale again. Vendor) Boss, I would like to ask this seedlings used in farming here. Why not use those seeds ? Is it convenient? It is convenient and grows fast . (Grape seedlings, 20 yuan/30 yuan/50 yuan each, $2.8- $7) (There is an endless stream of villagers who come to buy Miaomiao) In addition to all kinds of seedlings, the villagers often buy chickens and ducks when they come to the market. There Uncle, what kind of chicken is this? This is a reed flower, a reed flower , what is a reed flower, a chicken , a reed chicken , how do these chickens usually sell for 50 , 50 each? Oh, are quite a lot of chicken types here, big roosters, reed chickens, black-bone chickens , and some I don't recognize . what about the little pig? Sold for 680 680 (This is some fried chicken food) (This is bulk snacks) (Low-price shoes are very attractive to customers) (10 yuan/15 yuan per pair, $1.4/$2.1) It is not difficult to see that the things sold at the town market are mainly daily necessities, shoes and hats. Chickens, ducks and seedlings are also necessities for rural life. There are relatively few fruit stalls. Most of the vegetables are self-grown delicacies and snacks at the market here. There are not many consumer groups . The vendors in the market travel to and from several towns on the Loess Plateau seven days a week . This is the most authentic local market on the Loess (A basin made of tires can be used to store groceries (The countryside outside the market) Plateau. The lyrics of the past &quot;My family lives on the Loess Plateau&quot; made me think about The Loess Plateau has always been full of imagination . What is it like there? In a broad sense, the Loess Plateau is a large loess area in north-central China. The provinces involved include Shanxi, Shaanxi, Gansu, Ningxia , Qinghai and Inner Mongolia. Yulin and Yan'an in northern Shaanxi are the central part of the Loess Plateau. As far as the eye can see , there are endless loess ravines , just like the tune of the folk song of northern Shaanxi. The average altitude of the Loess Plateau is about 1,000-1,500 meters. Its topographic features are crisscross ravines and loess hills. The thickness of the loess here is as little as 1,000 meters. The thickest part is tens of meters , nearly 180 meters . The precipitation washes away the sparse soil layer, forming a 100-meter-deep ravine. The loess plain at the foot is very close to the opposite side but separated by a deep valley. Only then can you feel the song &quot;Meet Me&quot; sung in Xintianyou. &quot;Easy, difficult to say&quot;. The words commonly used to describe the Loess Plateau are nothing more than drought and barrenness. But when I actually came here, I was surprised by the green mountains. After decades of management, aircraft seeding combined with artificial tree planting The vegetation coverage rate here has been increasing. Wind protection and sand fixation have reduced the amount of sediment in the Yellow River . Building terraces and building dams has alleviated soil erosion. I heard the locals in Yulin say that when they were young, sandstorms were frequent. Now the sky is always blue. Next, we moved from the Loess Plateau. Go to Yulin city and visit the local morning market. The ancient city farmer's market is in the center of Yulin city. It is a large comprehensive wholesale market with many categories. You can buy fruits, vegetables, meat, meat, steamed buns , and daily necessities early in the morning. It's like a big market in town filled with local residents. There is a lot of braided garlic on sale in the market. It costs 10 yuan a braid. When eating noodles in northern Shaanxi, you must eat garlic with it. It is also placed on the dining tables of restaurants here. There is a large area in the garlic market that sells potatoes . People in northern Shaanxi like to eat potatoes. Some snacks with northern Shaanxi characteristics are also made of potatoes, such as black potatoes. The one that makes vermicelli is made here. Is it produced here? Hello, boss, this potato In fact, it is not just northern Shaanxi, from the northwest to Potatoes in the Southwest were once the staple food in many parts of China. The main reason has nothing to do with deliciousness. Potatoes can be grown in a relatively harsh environment and can fill their stomachs. They are one of the few choices for people living in these areas. Potatoes are slowly developing in various places. The special snacks that came here are all based on the hardships of life. is produced in Inner Mongolia. I would like to ask if this steamed bun is also eaten with that kind of meat. Yes, it is lotus leaf cake . This is It's lotus leaf pancake. You usually buy it and eat it at home, right ? Boss , I want to ask what kind of steamed bun this is. What is &quot;high shoe&quot; called &quot;high shoe&quot;? &quot;High shoe&quot; is right . It's cornmeal. Is it &quot;Gaomian&quot;? What kind of noodles are rice noodles and are also steamed, right? They are all steamed. Sister, the outer layer is white noodles and the inside is millet noodles, right? Soft rice noodles are different from millet noodles. Rice noodles are not millet noodles , soft rice. Later I figured out that the yellow ones are not millet noodles. They are called soft rice , which refers to yellow rice. Is this potato flour or (sweet potato flour) potato flour ? Is the haggis in the haggis eaten at any time? Is it possible to eat pork stew ? Is there any &quot;high crest&quot; that must be eaten to eat pork ? This one is (sheep) offal. The fine offal is offal. The fine one is (put in sheep) offal. But here we usually eat fresh (vermicelli). They all need fresh Another food preference in northern Shaanxi due to geographical conditions is pasta. The vast Loess Plateau. There are no fields suitable for rice , but excellent wheat can be grown here. We are most familiar with the Shaanxi Roujiamo, which contributes to the delicious food. The steamed buns are indispensable, such as white Jimo lotus leaf cakes , cakes with jujube paste, etc. Northern Shaanxi The pancakes and steamed buns are chewy and full. This Baiji steamed pancake shop makes thousands of pancakes every day. Several machines are started at the same time. The baked Baiji steamed buns need to be blown with a fan first so that the heat on the surface of the pancakes can quickly spread. The air-dried steamed buns spread out in this way can ensure the softness inside and the delicious texture of the meat buns. (rice dumpling leaves). (Zongzi consists of glutinous rice and Rhubarb rice, two kinds of fillings) (Zongzi making on site) This kind of jujube that grows on the edge of the Yellow River is named Yellow River Beach jujube. It is also one of the specialties of northern Shaanxi. Jujube trees are mainly grown. In the districts and counties where the Yellow River flows through in the south of Yulin , the landforms are obviously different from the Loess Plateau in the north. I will slowly share with my friends later that there is also an inherent impression of northern Shaanxi that the root cause of poverty also lies in the geographical environment and the Loess Plateau . Fragile farming ecology is indeed the case. However, I only learned that Yulin is a rich city with abundant coal and oil resources when I looked up information before 2002. In 2023, Yulin's GDP will exceed 700 billion, ranking second in Shaanxi Province and the provincial capital. After Xi'an , with China's accession to the WTO, the booming manufacturing industry in eastern cities required a large amount of coal. Yulin has since embarked on a rapid path of economic development. In addition to being a low-key wealthy city, Yulin also has a long history that cannot be ignored. Historically, Yulin was prosperous. During the Ming and Qing Dynasties, Yulin served as a strategic barrier to the northwest of Beijing, the capital. It was the only city in China whose emperor decreed that the height of the city wall could exceed that of Beijing. It was built in the second year of Zhengtong in the Ming Dynasty. The ancient city of Yulin , also known as the Acropolis or Camel City, is second only to Xi'an in Shaanxi Province. In the ancient city of the Ming Dynasty , most of the residential buildings scattered across the six-story arcades, wide streets and narrow alleys were courtyards of the Ming and Qing Dynasties . The ancient city of Yulin has gone through 600 years of vicissitudes. Although it has been repeatedly attacked by war , most of it is intact. Today, 80% of the 6.7-kilometer-long city wall is still standing. (Wengcheng) Every evening There are stalls under the city walls of the ancient city. Some snack bars are gradually becoming lively. Many citizens passing by after work will come to buy vegetables and dinner food. This is also the time of day when the ancient city is most full of fireworks. Next, we went to the local evening market under the city wall How come this little duck is sold for one yuan and 10 yuan? Boss, what is this? A bowl of rice and a bowl of rice. This is jelly. Is there cold noodles ? You can mix it with that ingredient and eat it, right ? You can eat it by mixing this with this . The specialties here. The specialties here . Oh, boss. Is this made here? It's made in Yulin . It's made in Yulin. Isn't this Yulin? We're made locally . I I thought you were talking about Jingbian. . The sesame melon is a local specialty in northern Shaanxi. The soil here is very suitable for planting. The reason why it is called sesame melon is because it is much smaller than the commonly seen cantaloupe. The essence of the small cantaloupe is concentrated. This sesame cantaloupe, also called sesame honeydew melon, has a thin skin and is very sweet. Four pieces of Liangpi cost 5 yuan. You can go back and cut it up before eating, right? What is this yellow jelly? What is the jelly made of? Take the peas made from these peas . Boss, how much does this cost per portion ? Liangpi is 8 yuan per portion . Oh , is that the bowl? Oh, can I take a picture of it? Okay, thank you . I can make one for you. You can take a picture. Just take a picture of this. You can take a picture of this. If you cut it like this , cut it into thin slices like this. Haha , oh, just cut it into slices like this. Just cut it into slices like this. How much does it cost for a portion? 8 yuan is also 8 yuan. Oh, are all the above ingredients put in the bowl? Yes, there is meat here, right? Pork liver , pork liver . Thank you. It's okay , boss. Can I take a photo of this ? Thank you. These pig head meats are eaten in that steamed bun. It can be mixed with steamed buns, knuckles, pig trotters , and liver all with cold sauce. If you can mix it now, I will mix it directly. Add some cucumber and green pepper and mix it directly. It will be good. You can also eat it without adding any ingredients. It depends on your face. The meat is delicious. The meat on the face is chewy and chewy. The mid-temperate semi-arid climate of northern Shaanxi creates a taste that is salty but not sweet. The food here is solid and the ingredients are solid, including the taste of northern Shaanxi. The chunky and thick pork head meat is salty and fragrant and goes well with the steamed buns. It Uncle, can you please pat me on the cake? Is this the kind of cake with steamed buns ? Yes, turns out that this uncle and the pork head steamed buns we just made are from the same family. The steamed buns I eat are the ones that the uncle is making. They are freshly baked and sold in the nearby stove. The steamed buns are very delicious. They are first fried on an iron plate for a while and fried on both sides until they are set. The iron plate is removable and there is a small fire pit hidden underneath. Fry both sides until golden brown and then transfer to the fire pond to bake uncle. I want to ask what is this yellow one? Cake and sticky cake. Oh, this is also sticky cake. It's small. Is this weighed by kilogram? How much does it cost per kilogram? It costs 5 yuan and 5 yuan (cartoon image of traditional clothing in northern Shaanxi) (specialty of Gaojiabao in northern Shaanxi) (Braised pork head meat) the Shaanxi steamed buns. There are many varieties. After wandering around the market for a while, I found that the pork head meat buns are very popular here. There are several stalls where the meat is braised in an attractive color. The bosses skillfully cut the meat and package it. After watching it for a while, my mouth (Garlic is also added to it) How does the boss sell this? How much does it cost per pound? 26 26 pounds (Roast duck) watered. Both the oven and the stuffing are Yulin's traditional specialty snacks. The red dot in the middle is the dry oven. It is divided into sweet and salty flavors. It is crispy on the inside and has a solid texture . The more you chew, the more fragrant it becomes . Most of the cakes in northern Shaanxi contain less water and are harder in texture. It's very filling. This is to store it for a longer time . In the past, these were dry foods that people brought on the road. They were fresh and cold dishes. They were mixed and sold freshly. They were fragrant and delicious. (Handmade copper pot) Strolling through the ancient city, the heaviness of the ancient buildings of the Ming and Qing dynasties and the roadside stalls Busy hawking and hawking are intertwined, giving the illusion of traveling through time and space . History and folk fireworks are endless . I hope this sharing can bring you an authentic Northern Shaanxi style from the Loess Plateau . Thank you for watching. See you next time.