So guys, whenever you're playing as black, you're start because white always makes the first move. opening for black, which is very simple to play. neutralise white's advantage &amp; in many cases, only this, it also has a great win percentage at about is the Caro-Kann Defense &amp; in this video, I exactly how to play this. But before we begin, I video. Alright, so when white starts with E4, you defense. Now white obviously takes full control of objective is to fight for the center. Now since we about this. Basically he has three options. forward or he can simply defend this pawn. Now but I don't want to confuse you. So I will give every variation. So please focus on this video to be very important. Alright, first and foremost, of each of these pieces. Now for these two pawns - why we played D5. Now let's say for example, simplify the center and we enter the exchange now let's talk about this knight. In almost square, because the main purpose of this knight remember, your knight belongs to C6. Okay, now this bishop is generally developed to either F5 or becomes the ideal square for the bishop, because on the center. Now if the knight is not here, then of the queen so, then you can develop the bishop we play bishop to G4. Okay, now let's talk about bishop moves out of this pawn chain, only then E6 gives us this beautiful pawn chain and opens up you can bring out the bishop, but let's also talk this F6 square is available, you should look to you'll have a white pawn on D5, so knight f6 to maneuver your knight to g6 or f5. I will show F6 is straight forward, so we place the knight with this pawn, we will simply take the knight. because it is a strong defender of the center, take the knight, white recaptures, and now we can generally good for the bishop. But here since we a good option. Next, king safety is important, so to bring out the gorgeous lady, our queen. But to do something about this bishop. Let's attack this gives us a wonderful opportunity to exchange ultimately weakens his king. In fact, you can idea? Yes, we have queen B6 going after both these on this exposed king. Its just move number 14 and get by playing the Caro-Kann opening. By the way, there is not much to worry because in any case, even better pawn structure which solidifies your ideas in mind, we can easily deal with all the some of the important variations. But before that, then do hit that like button below this video let's say white goes C4. This is the Panov we discussed earlier because we'll apply them in capture this pawn, but that simply allows white to to avoid. Now you can play knight c6, but it's first play knight f6 since we already know that though the ideas remain the same, our move order depending on your requirement. So here, instead the other knight. And once you are comfortable, actually great for you, because now this D4 pawn if he plays knight F3, you know what to do, right? knight is not a good idea because you allow him Anyway bishop e2. And now, since this bishop is e6, then Bishop d6 or bishop e7 is also fine. If isolated, so its better to take with the queen. And our strategy remains the same, just apply the to go. Alright, so we've looked at the exchange most common response you will see from white and the advance variation. Now here, you cannot bring Do you remember the purpose of these pawns? Yes, why we'll push C5. The idea is to pressurize this knight. And if he takes, don't worry! These very soon. Now E6 locks down our bishop, so hold attack the pawn. If knight F3, you know what to do then you can play e6. This pawn is in danger - but then what about this knight? Remember, I told able to place your knight here, this is what I was taking away this square also from the knight, so is to maneuver this knight to either F5 or G6. if he attacks our bishop, you already know that can simply pick up this pawn. From here, it's develop the bishop, and castle on the kingside. in the advance variation, after C5, even if the knight as usual. If he takes this, you so that's actually great for you. And even if he we can now exchange the pawns, and bring out the and after queen takes, we pick up a free pawn. his normal development, we will continue with the go here, so knight e7. If he tries something like B6 double attack, and white ends up in serious it's the same plan - just reposition your knight, If you are an aggressive player, you can also always an option and you can attack along the F variation, we've looked at the advance variation. we'll discuss that as well. But before moving on, this video. Guys, just like an intense chess game, stressful or anxious situation, I try to distract not in your control. That's when you need the help your mental health. Finding the right therapist makes it very easy for you. Well, BetterHelp is an at your own convenience. It's online, it's remote matched to a suitable professional therapist. along with that therapist, you can even switch BetterHelp wants to make therapy more affordable happy &amp; healthy life. Its really easy to sign BetterHelp.com/ChessTalk , that's better-h-e-l-p &amp; month. Link is in the description box below, d4, d5, now let's see how to respond when white C3 first. We are getting the opportunity to takes on E4 and knight takes on E4. Following the knight F6. If he takes, we take back with the E because this time we will attack the kingside short. By the way, this is called the Tartakower have any pawns on these light squares, this bishop up for the knight might not always be fruitful. it can easily be pushed back. In the meanwhile, white does the same. And we position our rook adjustments for this knight &amp; the bishop. In this so our bishop goes to E6. Now our knight can't go will rotate the knight like this. So first knight our knight. And now with Queen D7, our plan is to want to show you which continues with a beautiful double threat. So he defends the knight. We keep away, we have a queen check, the bishop is gone. And from here, black is completely winning. And opponents using the Caro-Kann. Now let me show you a good weapon for white against the Caro-Kann. So, with a very unusual looking move, pawn to f3. We this very often because obviously, this weakens this is probably the only variation where we will we would have played something like knight F6, but I would recommend you straight-away counter-attack sacrifice, but the idea here is to open up this So after pawn takes, we first bring up the bishop, dangerous for white. If he is not careful &amp; just home because we have a beautiful checkmate, just does not take this pawn, and plays some random this deadly queen h4 check. And after one more variation is a lot more tactical as compared to one more thing, if we look at the opening, instead knight f3, our gameplan is still the same. We more moves, you will notice that we transpose into earlier. And for example, in this position, if he then bishop g4, d4, e6 &amp; eventually we transpose you have this simplified gameplan &amp; its so easy opening for the rest of your life. Alright, so turn &amp; you need to find the best move for white. many of you get this right. Guys, do Subscribe