(lighthearted music) Hey Psych2Goers, welcome back to another video. Before we start, we'd like to thank you for all Psycho2Go's mission is to in a digestible manner. Now, let's begin. Depression is one of the in the world. It can make you lose all of to do anything, and it can negatively as well as your relationships with others. And this is why it's so that you're not alone and that there is help and While seeking help and treatment is the first step to getting better, the road towards improvement How do you know that you're Every day may seem so similar to you that you can't really tell the difference. Don't worry. We here Psych2Go have prepared a list of that your mental health is getting better. Before we begin, we would like to mention for educational purposes only and is not intended to substitute If you suspect you may have depression or any mental health condition, we highly advise you to seek help from a qualified mental Number one, less irritability. Have you noticed that One of the symptoms of You may easily blow up or you find even the smallest This is because irritability since it's a manifestation of frustration and helplessness. So a sign that you're getting better is when you find yourself more tolerant and patient than before. Number two, hygiene and grooming. Are there any changes to One of the signs that has to do with your grooming. It may be imperceptible at first, but one day you may notice your skin has its usual radiance back and your eyes are not so sullen. It's not a change that happens overnight but a product of you slowly Number three, tackling Have you started to go that you've put off for so long? Often when you're depressed, you feel tired and fatigued. This lack of energy and may cause many of your Therefore, if you find off your to-do list more and more lately, then it may be a sign and getting better. Number four, interest in activities. Have you started drawing or dancing again? Another sign of improvement into your hobbies and interests. When depressed, you may find yourself too to do any of the things you used to enjoy. Your motivation for hobbies, social activities and goals may decline. Therefore, a sign that your is when you start to feel to get back to your interests. Number five, changes in appetite. Have you started eating more lately? Maybe less? Changes in your appetite may mean your mental If you've experienced a loss of appetite when you were in a depressed state, a sign of improvement may more appealing and to On the other hand, if you've noticed that you've developed a tendency to binge eat finding more self-control and restraint when it comes to food may Number six, improved concentration. Are you able to focus on your work longer? Depression affects your particularly your and concentration. Though antidepressants with severe depression, studies have shown that executive functioning or but only helps to improve mood. On the other hand, with problem-solving treatment and cognitive behavioral therapy, you may begin to notice an improvement with your concentration and And number seven, better self-image. Have you become a kinder One of the cruelest aspects of depression is that it impacts your view of yourself by magnifying your imperfections and making you believe incompetent or not good enough. In turn, these negative thoughts keep you in a depressed cycle. But as you begin to reconnect and to have compassion towards yourself, your self-worth will increase which will allow you to see Though it may not feel depression does not last forever. If you found this video helpful, be sure to like and share this video with those who might benefit from it. And don't forget to hit and notification bell icon to get notified whenever Psych2Go posts a new video. The references and are added in the description below. Thanks for watching and we'll