- Did you know that part or big screen TV was It looks like a microbrewery, a chemical reactor creating Quantum Dots. The tech that's not only the color accuracy bar but also the key still unreleased QD-OLED displays. The new best display you can get. Today I'm gonna show you how quantum dots are made in America in what role they're playing in bringing microLED displays to quantum dots themselves might make OLED and microLED displays obsolete. As for who, our sponsor Crucial. Get more done with With up to 6,600 megabytes per second, sequential reads, and Crucial makes tech to last. Get yours today at the link below. (opening jingle) (rhythmic drumming) Whether it's a monitor or an LCD TV, you may be watching with quantum dot enhancement film. That's the term that Nanosys, for every quantum dot product that's ever been brought to market, gives to this. The polymer film containing that's placed among the myriad that manipulate light But what about these quantum Are they just super small? Actually, it has to do with the principle by which they operate: Each quantum dot is a or confine energy for as long as it can before letting it escape in The color of the light that's injected by the quantum dot is Give the energy a lot of and it'll emit a low Give it less runway and it'll emit a higher energy green light. Mixing a solution of red along with a clear polymer which have made the HDR content we love far more stunning and color accurate. They take the wide band the white light of a typical LCD backlight and isolate just the true discarding the adjacent and lime and other colors What comes out from the is a new white light made that the LCD can then pixelate It smells like hot oil in here! The great thing about quantum dots is that you can change their size and therefore the color they emit super incrementally. One nanometer steps. And this is done simply by changing the temperature that they're cooking at. For example, the blue quantum dot crystal is only 100 atoms. And in a barrel of blue that Nanosys ships to its customers, folks like Samsung Display in that 16 gallon barrel This seemingly impossible through chemical self-assembly, with this badass industrial equipment and this badass industrial software. It's basically a chemical is deposited into its crystal which becomes a by-product The chemical reaction is it requires energy, so Because the outside of a material similar to the we can't see what's going on inside. But we can see the wavelength emitted by the growing crystals that's plunged inside Now this reactor is called Corey. And this one right here is called Shelly. And that speaks to the multi-step process the dots go through the &quot;core&quot; of the quantum dot created, and then later a shell is grown around it. This helps eliminate defects Which is important because a defective quantum dot won't eject its energy, creating excess heat that could degrade, or yellow, the enhancement Next, the quantum dots are purified and chemical by-products are removed before the final step, ligand exchange. Liquid ligans that are a solid structure in a may require different properties than say the ligands used in quantum dot ink that needs to shoot out That's right. Ink. The next gen quantum dot in 2022 are not LCDs They're OLED displays with quantum dots printed directly onto the OLED emitters. And here's why that's a really big deal. Current big screen OLEDs are technically W-OLEDs and LG makes them all. The emitters are red, blue, and green mixed together to create white. The subpixels use color filters to split that white light back aren't very pure and the voltage required to drive the organic emitters to high brightness is damaging to them. We're talking burn-in and short lifespan. That's why there's a fourth clear subpixel that just shines white light through. These next gen OLEDs though, which Samsung calls QD-OLEDs, don't need a white pixel in order They use only blue emitters through red and green quantum dot ink for color conversion, not filtering. Now we haven't seen a Get subscribed for when we do. But these displays should be brighter, longer lasting, and have than anything we've seen so far. Super exciting stuff. I can't wait. But James, you might say, When MicroLED is right around the corner? Is Nanosys putting its Actually, they're in every basket. In early 2021 Nanosys in the development of at first I didn't understand how MicroLED could benefit from quantum dots since a MicroLED display R, G, and B LEDs that it And they do. But have you ever wondered that are available today are so huge? It's because the pixels are so big, and they have to be big The Diode. At the center of a pixel, the diode can efficiently create, say, blue. But at the edges of a has been snipped off in order to conform to the pixel shape, the diode and in some cases won't But it will produce heat, This isn't a big deal if the pixels are large since there's more juicy emitting area compared to the edge area. But that ratio changes as Red and green are particularly so if you're talking about like in a pair of to be super battery efficient, while also having a really really bright display so you can see everything on a sunny day, well the limits of MiniLEDs can quickly make them non-viable. Put some quantum dot color converting ink on those dialogues though, and suddenly the problem is far more tractable. As is the manufacturing and cost of big screen MicroLED TVs. (electropop music) Oh my god. Ahh! How do you do this? Cool. I got one. Yeah! And finally, there's the long game. Quantum dots that are not charged by shining a light on them, but instead are directly connected to the display's thin film transistors, replacing LEDs. And yeah, I'm sure the but the real disruption from these devices would be in the cost Right now, virtually all are created using evaporatively in a giant, grossly The limitations of these chambers is why TVs come in the sizes that they do. It's why the mother glass they're cut from is the size it is. And it's why display a state-sponsored enterprise First in Japan, then Korea, and now China. But once a flagship can be made for 10% of can build a fab, and oddly for, say, German cars can Supply chains will be less susceptible to major disruption And there will be more competition in display manufacturing But for now, all the innovation is happening here in California at the Nanosys Research so huge thanks to these in behind the curtain, and big thanks to our sponsor Micro Center. Micro Center has partnered a new, easy to use online PC builder tool. The tool helps customers with three different base starting points: value, performance, and ultimate. Each base system includes a case with a pre-installed motherboard, power supply, and separately You can add in your choice as well as your preference The parts can be arranged for same day in store pickup, or Micro Center will assemble If you're unsure of what parts are needed, Micro Center's expert technicians can walk you through selecting components, so check out Micro Center's new PC builder and receive a free 240 gigabyte SSD if you're a new customer If you're looking for check out the part one to We talk more about Nanosys and all that good stuff in that video. Check it out. I think this went really well. High five.