This video has been sponsored by Audible. In general, I've always liked and over the years, like turning my pee and tasting it, and turning toilet paper Something that I've was turn plastic gloves into grape soda. At first, but like all of my other transformations, it's possible because the chemical world In this case, there happens specifically vinyl ones, that's distantly related It's not found in every vinyl glove, but a lot of them contain something It's included to make the vinyl and this is chemically what it looks like. This, on the other hand, is one of the most called methyl anthranilate. Considering that one and the other is supposed to smell they're shockingly similar. There are at least a few main differences, They share this ring and in theory, it should be possible Basically, my goal was to pull out of some vinyl gloves, turn into grape flavor and then use It unfortunately and it would take at least Also, just like I had no idea if it would actually work. But anyway, to get things started, I first had to find some vinyl gloves Over the years, though, because phthalates have been associated A lot of companies have replaced them and these wouldn't work at all. I was only able to find that for sure had the phthalate in it. I ordered a box of it, I then cracked it open, The next thing to do was to cut them up which ended up being a huge pain. It turned out that cutting 20 gloves was a lot more annoying than I thought. When I was eventually done, though, and I added isopropyl alcohol I then pushed down some of the pieces and I put a bowl After that, I turned on the hot plate What I was doing here to dissolve the phthalate ester This phthalate ester actually represents and it's apparently around 41% of it. The rest of it which is insoluble, I let it boil like this for an hour, and then I poured it all through a funnel This was done which I didn't need anymore. At this point, everything that I wanted After this, dropped in a stir bar, The goal now was to concentrate it by getting rid This time, I didn't include and I left the beaker completely open. When it was done, I pulled it off the plate When I came back to it, something had separated out I'm not entirely sure what it was, or some of the other additives To clean it up, I filtered it again and I drained everything After this, I got out a beaker and I added to 300 mills of water, I then poured all of this and it separated into two layers. The top yellowish one was the alcohol and the bottom one I then set it up for a reflux by adding When it all looked good to go, I started the stirring As it warmed up, and by the time it was boiling, Now what I had to do What I was doing here which was called The sodium hydroxide was attacking it and breaking it into sodium phthalate The sodium phthalate was the part that I and the isononyl alcohol When it was done, and I took away the heating mantle. I let it cool down a bit and then I poured it I waited a few minutes and then I drained This bottom layer was mostly water, The upper one and the isononyl alcohol, and I poured it all I mentioned before was just a side product in this project, but just by chance, I have no idea when I'll actually get I will probably use it to make Now to this cloudy solution, I added 50 milliliters The first thing that this was doing was just reacting with leftover and it generated a lot of heat. It was also reacting and turning into phthalic acid. After a few minutes, I tested the pH and it was around a four, It had to be much more acidic so I added some more hydrochloric acid. This time when I stirred it, and this was all phthalic acid I again tested the pH, and it was The mixture that I had here and to get out I had to cool it down. To do this, I just put it The next day, and I used a vacuum filter I also washed it a few times and I eventually had Now, the next thing that I had to do was convert all of this To do that, I just dumped it all and I turned on the hot plate. As it warmed up, because the crystals were still a bit wet. I then stirred it until it looked and I quickly put a flask on top of it. At first, it looked however, it was also forming This was all phthalic anhydride, and this was basically The high temperature and turning it Normally, phthalic anhydride is a solid, but because of the high temperature, This vapor then rose to the top and started depositing itself on the flask What I had to do now was wait and then harvest it. However, I had to let it cool down first because if I took the flask off it would shoot out After sitting there it usually wasn't angry anymore, and I could open it up It initially looked but it was all just super fluffy. I moved it around and then I was able to lift it out. I then put it back on the heat, and I again waited Now what I had to do until all of the phthalic acid At first, I was having a lot of fun and I naively thought However, I slowly realized how wrong I was when I was still doing the same thing It turned out it just looked like I was making a lot. In reality, and it started feeling Eventually, though, it stopped making any crystals In total, I ended up getting of really pure So far, everything was going really well, Eleven and a half grams but the rest of the process I would lose and I might not have much of anything by the time that I got Last minute, I decided to process the other 80 gloves Ideally, I would have done this but unfortunately, so I just did four runs of the same thing, The first extraction part wasn't too bad, and it felt like I was The phthalic anhydride part, though, and it took another three It was actually even worse than before between four of them, When it was eventually done, What I did find odd, though, was that the batches I had 2 that were closer to 11, 1 that was around 12, I have no idea why this happened, but either way, This was way better and this made me feel Now, the next thing to do was turn into something called phthalimide. To make this happen, the first step because right now, they were mostly air. I did this by just stabbing them and I did it for every bottle. When I was done, it was still mostly air, but it was significantly better I then shoved everything and it almost filled the entire thing. Now, with all I dumped in the only which was 12 grams of urea. In the past, and I do still have some of it, but it unfortunately Instead, I got this urea But anyway, with everything in the flask, I shook it around When I felt that I had done a decent job, and the next thing to do was heat it up. Normally, I would have used but I had to accurately The easiest way to do this and I set one up using vegetable oil. When it all looked good to go, I turned on the hot plate As it got hotter, the volume of the stuff and there was some vapor coming off. Besides that, though, and this was because Right now, the urea were still in the solid phase, When it got to around 130C, though, As a liquid, they were reacting and they were combining When I had done this reaction before, but that didn't really happen this time. I mean, it melted, However, this didn't last for very long, and I think it was because This started getting me really worried What I decided to do was just try and force the reaction I was hoping but it didn't look like too much happened. As a last attempt to fix it, I thought that maybe had prevented it Even though it hadn't really melted, it had compressed a lot, This made me think that it would be but it was surprisingly easy. I then heated it and again, It was producing some ammonia gas, though, After this, I had no idea but I had faith that it did. I figured I would just move and I would find out I dumped everything and on top of it, What I had to do next and to keep it boiling For some reason, though, just didn't get hot enough, and I had to swap it out I then cranked up the heat, and it only took The goal here was to get rid of any In the boiling water, any urea would easily dissolve, would get turned back into phthalic acid The chemical that I was hoping was nearly insoluble, What I was waiting for here was to see I was honestly really scared that it Even after boiling it for a while, and this was a really good sign. I didn't know but I had definitely made some. While it was still hot, I poured it all into a vacuum filter I washed the powder a few times and then I dumped it all into a bowl. At this point, it was still wet, so I threw it into an oven When it was done, I had 46.6 grams which was way more than I had expected. I mean, it still wasn't as good but it was more than good enough. Now, the next step and this was the part Making it from phthalimide and it has a tendency to completely fail. Everything had to be done very carefully, and even slight mistakes However, I had done it years ago, and I had found what I thought I figured if I just repeated exactly The first thing that I needed was to get which usually has a concentration Bleach slowly degrades over time, though, To do this, I put together In the main flask, I loaded it and in the addition funnel above it, When I opened the stopper they reacted to make oxygen gas. I added enough peroxide and all of this oxygen was bubbled This let me measure and from this, and find out I did it five times and it averaged out at around 11%. Now that I knew this, I could get started and I added water to a flask along with some I let it stir until it all dissolved, I also added a thermometer, When it eventually got there, and the amount that I used was based on that 11% concentration As I did this, and it was important to keep it below 5. To help with this, and I also only added it When I was done, I took the flask out of the ice bath Now what I had to do and I started dumping it in. As it mixed with the bleach, and this was mostly because After everything was added, At around the same time, though, the mixture in the flask got a lot thicker To fix this, I basically just had to wait because the pthalimide was slowly reacting This was turning it which was actually soluble in water. Over the next few minutes, and the pthalimide slowly disappeared. Up until now, everything seemed but then it started turning yellow, The temperature also started to rise, This was unfortunately When I did this reaction before but apparently on a larger scale, What was supposed to be happening was a reaction called where the bleach to make sodium anthranilate. The major problem, though, is that if the temperature it starts making colored side products. Ideally, it would have been colorless, but at this point, I had faith that it could still be okay, I had also used everything that I had, After this, I added some more I was expecting it to make but it pretty much stayed the same. Now at this point, the temperature sensitive part and the next thing so I put it in a hot water bath and I left it there for 30 minutes. This just really helped drive and to push it all When it was done, and I poured everything into a beaker. I then washed the flask and I set up another ice bath. When it had cooled down to around 0, I tested the pH, This was from all the drain cleaner and what I had to do next To do this, I started adding This would generate a lot of heat, though, so I did it slowly to keep I also had to keep checking Every time it was added, it released some bubbles Eventually, though, and I think this was However, the solution was still too basic When it got to around it was starting to get cloudy, but there was also I decided to quickly get rid of this I'm really not sure why, but as it was filtered, When it was done, I put it back on ice It made more CO2, and the anthranilic acid that appeared It again got darker, though, Eventually, the anthranilic acid but by this point, I checked the pH, and it was around five, but I wanted it to be four. This is because it's at that pH that the anthranilic acid Above or below four, and it becomes more water-soluble. At four, though, and it becomes almost insoluble in water. Ideally, the anthranilic acid would have been white but what I had here This, again, was because a bunch of side reactions to happen. If I had the chance to try it again, I'd mix the chemicals in a different way But I really only had one shot at this, and I was going to have When it eventually got to that pH of four, I then washed it a few times with water, and I was really hoping that it would However, it didn't seem What I had now was and it was way more I was really tempted to just move on but it was a little too dirty. I was going to have to and I decided to do a recrystallization, so I dumped it all into a beaker I also added some activated charcoal I boiled it for a few minutes, and then I filtered it all into a flask When everything had passed through, and I waited for it It took a while, but some really nice which I was really happy about. The liquid was so dark but there were also I let it fully cool overnight, and the next day, They unfortunately still looked brown, a really dark solution I then filtered them off, and I was really hoping to see but they were still really dark. I feel like they might which was a bit discouraging. Despite the color, but I wanted to fix it up a bit more. However, I figured that doing was just a waste of time. What I did instead and I started adding methanol. The anthranilic acid and the goal here was to add When it had all disappeared, there was still a small amount so I quickly filtered it After that, I added cold water, which reduced the solubility and caused it to separate. I then added a whole bunch of extra water just to make sure This time, it looked and when I filtered it, To completely dry it, I put it into a vacuum chamber I opened it up the next morning, and what I had now Ideally, it would have been white, not even chemical companies sell It's always light brown What I also find interesting is only one step away it doesn't smell anything like grape. But anyway, overall, I only ended up getting 10.2 grams, If everything had gone well, it probably would have been closer so this was a bit sad. But either way, in theory, this was still more than enough I was slightly concerned, though, for what is probably now because this last step But there wasn't much and I just had to hope for the best. Now to make the final grape flavor, I put everything back into a flask I stirred it until it all dissolved, and then I added As it was added, it was reacting with the anthranilic acid which wasn't very soluble in methanol. It initially didn't look like but then a bunch of solid stuff There was so much of it and to loosen it up, That didn't seem so I took it off the stand After that, I added and I let it stir for 30 minutes. I also turned on the hot plate to try to get and to prevent it from freezing again. When I came back to it, which caused the methanol and everything dissolved. I then added a heating mantle and I cranked up the heat. After that, I waited for it and then I kept boiling it for two hours. The reaction that I was doing here and I was reacting the anthranilic acid The reaction was catalyzed and the result was However, it was in a free base, When it was eventually done, I took away the heating mantle I then took off the condenser column and I was hit with Clearly, it had worked, but I still had no idea But either way, what I had to do next and I poured it all into some water. What I had now was still very acidic and I had to neutralize it. To do this, I started adding a solution It immediately started reacting and the pH slowly increased. Besides just neutralizing it was also reacting with that sulfate salt and turning it into When I was done adding I dumped in a bunch of extra water. After this, the pH was close to neutral, but it looked like there was Now, to separate I poured it all into a separatory funnel. I then added something called This is a solvent that can dissolve but it isn't able to mix with water. After that, I dropped in a stopper, and then I waited The lower layer was the DCM, I then did it four more times, pulled out close to 100% After this, I cleaned out the funnel I then added some water to pull out any water-soluble junk I shook it around, I then cleaned the funnel and I did one last wash This was done to dry the DCM and to get rid of any water When I was done, and the next thing to do To do this, I just dumped in and I stirred it for 15 minutes. After this, I got rid of the sodium sulfate and I collected everything What I had to do now so I put together I turned on the heat which didn't take very long because the boiling point of DCM It also distills off really easily, and it didn't take very long I was eventually left with and I transferred it all What I had now was really crude and I had to clean it up a bit more. To do this, but it couldn't just be a regular one, Doing it under a vacuum was very important because it would let me do it and without any air present. This would prevent the grape flavor from just decomposing After a while, I started seeing and stuff started coming over. I'm not sure what this stuff was, but it was mostly side product It was only when it got to around 131 that the methyl anthranilate I then turned this adapter to a new vial, and I kept collecting it here until I had no idea how much and I was a bit worried That didn't turn out and I was really happy when I saw The moment that I turned it to another vial I then turned off the heating and I let everything cool down While I was waiting I wanted to try shooting it with UV light. I had read online and I really wanted to try it out, so I turned off all the lights The color that it made was honestly one of the nicest things It's a bit unfortunate, though, because I don't feel like When it eventually got I released the vacuum I then pulled out and I put them into different vials. Just for fun, I smelled the first and last vials, I'm really not sure how to describe them, The main stuff, though, smelled completely different, but it also had an odd mustiness to it. I, again, don't really know but it was honestly a bit off-putting. This surprised me because I thought it was going to be At first, I thought that maybe so to compare it, I ordered a small amount from a chemical company. It ended up smelling which honestly surprised me. After that, I did something to compare what I made It confirmed that and it showed that it was pretty clean, But either way, I was finally done, to start putting together my grape soda. Before that, though, Okay, so I'm hoping that it tastes God, it's awful. It's so much worse, Oh. I'm going to be honest and say that I knew But anyway, now to make the grape soda, I had to find a recipe, I couldn't find anything and it was always I also started realizing some of the info A lot of sources said for the flavor of grape Kool-Aid and I thought However, I think it meant more that it was just one of I never thought my grape soda and this was making me doubt it even more. After not finding any recipes, was to just try and copy grape Kool-Aid. The ingredients were very simple, the methyl anthranilate From the ingredients list, I was able to get and I assumed that I would for the citric and ascorbic acid. However, because figuring this out From their results, and I came up with my own bootleg recipe. I based the amount of acids but I jacked up the amount of sugar Before doing this, I had no idea, but grape sodas apparently Now to put it all together, I started After that, I shot in about 1.1 grams I then poured in just enough water It wouldn't be grape soda so I added some red and blue dye and I stirred it After this, which at this point was just What I had to do now by adding the methyl anthranilate, and I shot in two doses Normally, methyl anthranilate but I think the acidity What I had now was hopefully and the last step was to carbonate it. I did this using one and I blasted it with a bunch of CO2. When I eventually felt that it was good, I pulled it off very carefully After all this, I was now apparently done, and I could finally taste my soda Okay, so the first thing It actually does smell like grapes, or off-putting scent I was hoping that it would but it's clearly still there. But hopefully, unlike the pure stuff, Okay, it does taste like grape soda, It definitely has... It's hard to describe. It definitely has a grape profile to it, It's like there's just that part and nothing else, which I guess makes But honestly, it's... I'll try it again. I think it's still better than diet soda. I think if I were really desperate, I don't know if I'd enjoy it, It's really just the smell that's weird. Okay, so my plastic glove soda but it did taste like grapes, To me, just the fact and ended up was more than a success. Also, as an added bonus, I was really happy to find to make synthetic hot sauce. I have no idea because these long synthesis projects It doesn't seem like it but it's really time-consuming, But anyway, with that being said, I want to give for making long projects and to Audible for sponsoring this video. Audible is one of the biggest providers and they have a huge library They offer something from mysteries and thrillers For a long time, I was always someone but I've come to really like audiobooks. They're especially useful because I don't have to actually and I can just listen to them The last time that I talked about Audible, I was listening to Shoe Dog, Now though, I've moved on to Apollo, which tells the story So far, I'm only halfway through it, But with all that being said, if you're interested Audible is definitely the best place Right now, they're offering a free trial, which gives you and access to their new Plus catalog. This gives unlimited access podcasts, and audible originals. You can get started or by texting Nile Red to 500-500. Done. That's it, right? As usual, a big thanks goes out Everyone who supports me at least 24 hours You'll also get access to all If you support me with $5 or more, you'll get your name