- [Announcer] Ladies and - Denver, how are we feeling? Wow. Thank you guys so Feels so good to be back in the land of hot outdoorsy couples. Look at all of you. It's I love it. Except I could never tell if you're actually hot or if you just have facial hair. You know what I mean? You guys always have a an IPA blocking I'm like, are you attractive? Or are you just covering Because we all think until you see a hairless cat. And then you're like, No, anytime I've seen one And the owner's always like, no, we actually paid I'm like, &quot;For Gollum Could have just blown and handed it to you for free. And it looks the same. It's just runny shapes. I'm glad you guys came out. I know that everybody's had a really crazy I had an especially crazy 2020. I actually got divorced - [Audience] Ooh. - Yeah, so who's Oh, and I just start I think the craziest part is having to change back to your mom. It would be less embarrassing to use a stranger Truly. But other than that, it Like, we still and respect for each other. He's also a comedian, so we didn't have a lot It's not like there was a It was like, &quot;Do you want Who gets the good spatula?&quot; And after some time had passed, we decided that we were gonna And that's always the first time you try hanging When he saw me, I was like, &quot;Well honestly, I would rather That would feel less Than this nightmare just Absolutely not. And I've had the deadly peanut So, for the eight he had to stop eating Because if he did and my throat could close. So, when I saw him, I was like, &quot;Oh, what's it like to He goes, &quot;Oh man, we should have broken I don't even blame him. I can't compete with that. I hate that the person I'm That puts way too to be worth the Like, you're gonna for the rest of his life? Bitch, you better be pretty open-minded I'm gonna make a man stop Well, get ready to start You gotta fill the void Missionary with the lights off So, had to learn some new It's what I call porn. It's just educational I just watch with a &quot;Oh, pretend to gag.&quot; Seems good. I do think it's easy to stop trying as if you get divorced and you it's like having to come You know? It's like you gotta get ready to run another BJ 5K. Like, &quot;No, I just did this.&quot; And somebody moved the finish Ugh. Can't even see it. Do we have any married That was a pretty sad sound. You guys were faking Like, eh, some of you just treated You were like... Just so sad. Anybody here been married Like, over 20 years? You guys are so cute. How 21? Give it up for 21. That's a long time. Yeah. So, you guys get it. If you've been working the you start to cut some corners. Right? But if it is your first you are hustling. You just start- I'm sure you dudes have that the best blowjob is the first blowjob. Because women, we're We know that you're to every other one So, we just enter the I will be queen. Gimme that. We pull out all our hurt our knees, We want a trophy. We will give head to get ahead. But then you get married and like you're assembling And just skip a few steps. And by the end you're like, &quot;Next time I'm hiring A little righty, let's get the hell outta here. We gotta go to Costco. I tried to avoid the whole One of my friends and she got this dramatic as a revenge move She's like, &quot;If he sees he missed out on Like, a guy has ever seen &quot;I never got to fuck Bullshit. You guys never know when You're not even Before the divorce, I and I felt like my I looked down, his he cut them with his teeth. They're all jagged. Like he could unlock a secret I was like, &quot;Do you with a matching jagged toenail? You put them together and Is that what you're doing?&quot; I'm turning stone And I was like, &quot;What is this?&quot; He goes, &quot;I just didn't notice.&quot; Oh, I sure did. When you shanked And I'm bleeding out. Because I feel like this with you guys with age. Like, we've all seen with thick tufts of raccoon I'm sure that guy's wife to trim it for years and Like, &quot;What?&quot; It's like yelling into a fan. It's coming right I just sat next to a very and I had my notebook out. And he leans over and goes, &quot;It's nice to see somebody And I was like, I'm writing jokes about cum.&quot; I was like, &quot;Oh, doesn't seem so When I booped him, Love that Wendell. Does feel a little in my thirties, but what I like and don't For example, I don't I'm still never going Not a fan of the No thank you. And I'm fair about it. I don't ask anybody to There's no need, women have It's like a mini golf course. Just skip the one Just... Don't even look at it. I have never wanted to do Most of you dudes have . Not a lot of maintenance That thing works at Lowe's. I don't trust it. It's like blindly between two couch cushions. There's just goldfish crackers, and part of a broken It's a choking hazard, frankly. I'm not gonna swallow so you can cum a new way. And that is a joke I wrote Now you know. And I don't know if but I didn't even until later on in life. And when I did, I was like, Because as women, you wanna and dirty and down for Like that's not even in that turn me on, right? Like, that's like and one of the You're like, &quot;What?&quot; That sounds terrible Like, I don't understand who are eating ass all the time aren't getting violently ill. I have been washing my to avoid E. coli, but I'm and go straight to the source? Just drink from the hose? I don't trust you dudes to let alone your assholes. Not dying at 32 from Dreams and goals to accomplish. Have you guys been Wow, you're fucking Knocked me backward. Some of my friends actually and if I'm being I found it unacceptable. I was like, &quot;Uh, I I need you to ramp Now is not the time for you You're actually Some of 'em took so I took it with it makes everybody sound The first question is, &quot;Have you ever used alcohol Like, is there any other reason? Who's like, &quot;No, I'm in it I'm a purist. The second question is, have you ever done Do you mean Who's getting drunk and I've never had five &quot;All right, time Got to pass this party My biggest regrets When I was in college, I used to take shots of gin Yeah. You know you're white trash when you're cocktails That is not great. But I feel like if you form weird habits like that. Like if you don't you try and cook using as Okay? I wanna know if like if you want but you don't wanna do you ever just tear pieces Oh. The creatures come out at night. Oh, yeah, I didn't even know until my ex caught me doing it. And was like, &quot;Are you mama birding yourself?&quot; &quot;You need to get some help.&quot; I was like, &quot;Uh, I learned so I don't wanna hear it.&quot; Time is money, I'm Wow. I like that Disney villain The fuck was that? I like that on the Keep that weird shit up. I did so much dumb At one point, my friends I got hammered, ate passed out, woke up went to the pool, and there was like white powdery And I was like, &quot;Oh for the first time last night?&quot; And so I touched And I was like, &quot;Oh, Parmesan cheese.&quot; My friends told I ate seven slices of And in the process just jumped down my shirt. And then let it collect Like some sort of So, made some really I do think I made an actual I just quit being vegan after I'm back, baby. Back in these meat streets. Oh, man. Does it feel good Yeah. No one wants you around. My ex-husband and I, we went vegan together And then two months Am I saying that Yeah, I am. I am. But if we kept on eating nachos, we would've been too to notice our problems. There's not a lot of People think it's religion. It's cheese curds. Cheese can do what God can't. A couple hasn't had but they eat a cheese &quot;You know what? One more day.&quot; I'll think about divorce I'm gonna face-fuck I'm gonna get lost So I just saw something I just found out that Does anybody here know A few of you nodding. A &quot;Don't make eye contact If you don't know it's a website for people So women, if you post that shows your little tootsies, the foot folks might do a and then zoom in on your toes and make their keyboard sticky. I know. It's like scrapbooking It's a nice hobby. I know that sounds I'm really not I am so jealous that some Like, I wish I could just stare And get tingles in my I would live on Wiki Knees. Oh, I would get nothing done. So somebody told me that on Wiki Feet. And at first when I &quot;Oh, does that mean Hmm. I'm so flattered.&quot; Then I went and looked. I saw that the foot fetish only 2.3 out of five stars. Which they call &quot;okay feet&quot;. I was like, &quot;Oh, apparently It's like, you'll but you won't tell And about two for Tuesday deal. And a few months before some dude slid into &quot;Two grand for foot vid.&quot; Now, Denver, make some a video of your feet to Godless animals. All of ya. My ears, Jesus. Some of you just throw for a dollar. Aunts and uncles seeing You're like, &quot;Venmo me I earned this. This is a solid nip.&quot; Well, I appreciate your honesty. I wasn't quite as sure about it as all of you were. I was like, &quot;I He's gonna have a for the rest of his life? It's too weird. But then COVID hit. And I lost all my comedy work. So two days later I got desperate so fast. I two grand from my Let's do it.&quot; And he never responded. I got ghosted by the foot guy. Do you know how to lower your morals Only to have a foot guy be You're like, &quot;What? What happened?&quot; It's like the smelly kid and you're like, &quot;Ugh, all And he is like, &quot;I where the bathroom is.&quot; You're like, &quot;Fuck you, Travis.&quot; Get outta here. Just trying to be nice. I love my mom so much. She's amazing. But she's been trying to and none of it's She doesn't understand that of fame in comedy. She thinks that all She'll be like, &quot;Why don't And asked to do &quot;Comedians And I'm like, &quot;Mom, a guy to jerk off to my feet.&quot; Let's lower our expectations. Like, this is where I have a foosball web I'm like here. When my mom heard &quot;You know who I bet would Ellen DeGeneres.&quot; And I was like, Well, let's put 'cause I bet she If I win, you have to let me She's always trying to find Like when she heard I she sent me a text that said, &quot;Now that you're single or Miss America.&quot; I was like, &quot;Yeah, is what was holding me back. From becoming Miss America.&quot; I'm pretty sure part of &quot;Hasn't been paid in jello So I don't think I'm getting it. I was talking about the So my entire family world-champion foosball players. Thank you. Thank you. I know it sounds My parents met playing at a in the eighties. So I literally wouldn't exist Which is sad. But, you know, some if it weren't for boxed wine. So it's like, &quot;Yeah, whatever.&quot; We're all a little garbage. Let's not judge each other. It gets weirder. Not only is he's also a slam And an international yo-yo man. Yeah, my dad has the sex Crushing it. And my mom is in the and they've been since I was like two years old. But since no one suspects that I love to hustle people, right? And so I usually play against other comedians But we did this special episode where I went and I hustled drunk So I wore this low-cut top, I talked in the worst voice, and my camera crew and I and I'd go, &quot;Hi, And I have this web that I've never done &quot;It's called Pop My Cherry.&quot; &quot;It's silly, you know? So I've never played and we just found this table, and I was just wondering And every group of guys is like, &quot;Hell yeah, bitch, let's go.&quot; &quot;Yeah. Play right now.&quot; So I would play the first game I would giggle a bunch, really build up And then I go, &quot;Okay, the hang of it now, so we should play for money.&quot; And every guy would put their And they'd hand me &quot;Here, you can serve first.&quot; And that's when I pull out Check mate, motherfucker. Yeah, I've never done cocaine, but I would assume I've only done Parmesan cheese. Which... Also exhilarating. And a lot cheaper. So I mentioned that my ex and I, we were together for So we knew so much But one thing that he until toward the end, I told him that sometimes And by sometimes And don't you guys act We are all swamp monsters. There is no drug in with a higher addiction rate Okay? You think you're you think you're above doing it, and then you let And you're like, &quot;Well, every day for the It is the best. I feel like Just carefree living. And I thought that he and You know? Like maybe we had And instead he was like, &quot;What? Oh, gross. That means every time I shower I've just been I was like, &quot;I do it Like, the water takes it You're acting like I drop my pants, and just on dry porcelain And then get out, and just leave you a puddle I was like, &quot;I'm gonna give you some real problems.&quot; This is nonsense. One of my friends told we're all supposed to once a year and get new ones. You guys been doing that? Feels good to be We all have such a weird 'cause they cost like 10 bucks, but we all keep the same Like it's the Great Depression. Like we're some old &quot;Well, this here's the at the orphanage and if this ain't the same Why? Pillows and towels, right? Like, we never They just eventually become the ones you like Why are you holding Do we all think we're gonna I'm gonna stop some stuff up. My grandparents' towels at this point. I don't know if you've They have washcloths that look like they were woven from wheat. I'm like, &quot;Did this I feel like I'm drying My eyelids are bleeding. So I got on dating apps for And they let me onto the celebrity dating obviously they use the term If they saw my Wiki Feet, We got... She can't sit with us.&quot; Yeah, they let in and still shops at Forever 21. So I for sure tricked them. I know that store is trash, I just love it so much. The last time I was there, I told the girl at the register on this tank top I wanted. And I asked if I And she just stared at me &quot;It's already only 2.99.&quot; Like, &quot;Do you want us to &quot;And pay off your &quot;This is Forever 21, It's basically an God, I love that store. The first date I went on was such a disaster. I went out with this guy who So he had this really And some of the words he said So he is telling me about &quot;Yeah, no, I love my cat, And my brain was like, Nope. So I sat with it for a second he rips your shirts. I thought you said that And with zero hesitation, &quot;Yeah, no, he rapes my shirts. And I don't understand but he will not stop &quot;Then I had to hide my shirts, and then I gave him a blanket, and now that's And I'm like, &quot;What the fuck?&quot; Am I on a hidden camera show? Where if this dude says rape he wins a jet ski? Is this one of Ted I just started I was like, &quot;I don't like So I was like, &quot;All right, I'm gonna give this So he starts telling me And I was like, &quot;Oh, you ever And I swear to God, you don't really have to but you do have to because they are the I was like, &quot;All right, Bye. Enjoy the jet ski, Lunatic. That was my first Fortunately, it's been I'm seeing a guy He has adult children. Okay? He has lived He knows more things. And I told him to hook up with because I was on my period. And he goes, &quot;I are ever grossed out by that. You're just shutting I was like, &quot;That that anybody's ever said to me.&quot; I didn't even know that's I was like, &quot;Okay, Who are you? The bar was set real low I'm gonna just do a gentle hop With your Snapple fun I don't know any Somebody could come up to me and be like, &quot;Ma'am, what happens during And I'd be like, &quot;I'm gonna go with They'd be like, &quot;Were My parents are playing They didn't teach He's also the first who has had a vasectomy. So I had some I was like, &quot;When you Like that white Gatorade flavor? Just have glacier frost on tap? What's going on? I'm just trying I was like, &quot;Does when there aren't kids in it?&quot; It's like, or maybe Like one of those It was like, &quot;Whoosh.&quot; Startles you. You got to point it away You maybe fix a tire. Finally I just went I was like, &quot;I am blowing This is field research And turns out it's like normal. I guess it's kind of Like, it looks the same. And then once it's in &quot;Something's missing.&quot; This is like diet cum. It's another joke I wrote Yeah, he got an Saw some things. A lot of my friends and married right now. And one of them just with her fiance. And they played where they have signs and they held them up when &quot;Who's the better cook? Hm?&quot; Who takes longer to get ready? We're all just like, Oh my god. I'm like, you guys let's get into some real shit, like who has a drinking problem? Who's settling? I'm like, let me And we'll call it Let's test drive So one of the things that was hard in going and living with somebody into being single is that no one And I know it sounds but if you live with somebody, there's like a fair that happens throughout the day. So my lowest point I started watching where a girl would hold a and she would simulate that And I would just ram my Like, &quot;Uh, pet me Rachel. You dirty bitch.&quot; As soon as businesses opened up, I made all of the I was like, I'm getting a Look, I made a just 'cause I missed feeling Don't you judge me. It was hard. My dentist is this like I was like, &quot;Floss Use your toys. He was like, &quot;I prefer I was like, &quot;Dmitri, Hush your lips. Just tell me when to spit.&quot; One of the appointments I had And I had been going to salons before COVID to I had tried doing some of and I just learned that of my nethers that I do not to wax myself. Listen to me, if you you're a psychopath. That is some Steve-O I want no part of it. So I'd been going to the salons, and then the salons and things got scary. There's so many beautiful I feel like a lot of with like a landing strip and by July it was You can land anywhere. There's a Cinnabon There's a shuttle that takes I mean... Employees, W-9s, So finally the and I immediately And I remembered there's that at least a quarter inch long in order for the wax to - [Audience Member] Oh my God. - And... Do we need a medic? Are Too much for you? She's like, &quot;It's a 7:30 show, I didn't know what this was.&quot; I... I don't like hockey, and we She's like, &quot;This is I'm sorry. Oh, yeah. So I remembered that the hair has to be at in order for the wax to And I looked down and was like, &quot;Well, that's not But for the first time that maybe it's bad than a quarter inch. So I called the salon. So embarrassing. I was like, &quot;Hey. I have an appointment today, Is there like a maximum hair requirement?&quot; And this poor girl just goes, &quot;I mean, how long And I wasn't prepared So I panicked and was like, No. Like, I don't know if which type of hair they accept, but maybe somebody I don't know. We don't- We don't know where I'll just throwing 'em on and I don't know. Basically, I feel were walking around like the opposite of a Which is totally fine. My friend Jay actually told is this porn star So I googled her and the was her doing hardcore anal. And got a little creeped out saw that and thought... &quot;You know who this Ol' gap and butthole, Kelsey.&quot; Yeah. Oh, backdoor club, A plus. What is the matter But by the way, it's to tell that joke because I've had to to tell the past two years. And I realized that everybody would just It would just get really &quot;Hello? Everybody, show me your hands. I don't trust you. I had to check into a and it was early in the morning. And the woman checking me and she goes, &quot;I just you look so much I don't know if but you really look like her.&quot; And it took all of my strength and be like, &quot;You know who everybody And just... Just really blast her with a I couldn't do it. I do think that Jesse Rogers We have some different hobbies. You know, I've never For example. Like my ex-husband and I, until seven years We had just been Just very little just churning We ended up buying one of And I gotta be honest, Way too intense for me. This thing is like I was like, &quot;Is have been using I barely touched it to my body, my feet lifted off the ground. I took flight. I was not turned on at I was like, &quot;Did I just No, no, no, no, no, no, no.&quot; This thing is meant for It's for liquefying raw So I ended up asking some and it turns out that and they use it on in order to have an orgasm. I was like, &quot;How have erased your vagina?&quot; Just sanded it down to a Like a Barbie crotch. Yeah, go bowling on it. And something I've is that a lot of you guys So one night before the divorce, my ex and I were out drinking. I'd had a few gin and hams. As you do. And when we got home, I was just feeling a So I decided to crank it to 10 just to see what would happen. And the moment I touched it Woo. Went up inside his body. I didn't even know I was just staring Do they stay up there until How do you get them back? Have to do a hard man Kegel? A couple minutes went I panicked. I started pushing on his belly Kinda trying to eject quarters I was like, &quot;Come Another few minutes, I was like, &quot;Oh, I think those &quot;I think I gave you an Oops. So I'm in therapy. Oh, wow. That's a nice response. Usually it's just one Let's talk to you. Yeah, I think But I guess not everybody Some people do need therapy. And you can usually tell because they say things like, &quot;I don't need any &quot;I prefer to be a burden You're like, &quot;Uh, sir, Why are you shouting?&quot; &quot;You're alarming the children.&quot; I had to work on my because I kept attracting One of my friends told &quot;Once you know your worth, you'll stop giving And I was like, and call me groupon, baby.&quot; Boy, I've been out here like, &quot;Hey, you got a personality This pussy is 90% off. Hey.&quot; No credit, no That makes it sound like my It has not. I have a very low body count. I love that that's what Like we're all just fucking It sounds so System of a I think I would have if STDs didn't exist, but I'm just so that I don't wanna gamble. Like, I just can't our best defense against in the honor system. Scouts honor, bro. I'm like, &quot;You lied I'm supposed to trust Kick rocks. Get outta here. I was reading online that back in the 1800s Like they used to basically And they've obviously which I'm sure was a I bet the women back Like, &quot;But keep it girthy.&quot; &quot;Keep that deep dish condom on.&quot; &quot;We don't have electricity, I had a woman come to who I think was from the 1800s. She was very old. And she came up to me &quot;I was a makeup And at this point I'm thinking, to compliment my And then she goes, &quot;Your face was so oily &quot;It was the only thing The lights were that I had to squint And that's when I &quot;Well, tonight's the for throat-punching Do you just hit a certain like, &quot;Fuck it, burn And just traumatizing people? I'm like, &quot;Who is this You know? We gotta save them. I just picture him and she's like, &quot;Your Of course, I didn't I was just like, &quot;What I have no backbone. I've also become self-conscious Did you girls have that were you had to wear than the length of your Okay, all right. To prevent girls from So that was the day I learned For my short height. All the girls had a lineup and I don't know if you can I'll show you on this side too. But I did this and I looked &quot;I'm gonna have to &quot;To not get expelled.&quot; I'm just rolling into home back with my chain wallet Let's bake these muffins, Diane. The third member of I don't know much about but it does make me laugh having to take their makeup Because they just, they Like, &quot;I'm gonna stab this And then two hours &quot;These Neutrogena &quot;They don't burn my eyes.&quot; So before I started headlining, I used to open on tour for Anybody here Jim Norton fan? Nice. Got some Jim So Jim's favorite thing to And I made the that I embarrass very And he just milked that every When we were in public, he would constantly We would be checking and just deadpan, in he would turn to me and go, &quot;Are you not gonna pay for I would just start shivering Like I would just end that I've owned for five years. I was like, &quot;Just take I hate this. It was traumatizing. By far, the most embarrassing he would do with his bodyguard, we traveled with this Picture Frankenstein Just an oaf. And I don't know if you women on victoriassecret.com, but sometimes you get that If you have even a you immediately throw it in I used it as my day-to-day I have no dignity. And says &quot;Victoria's Secret&quot; like it's very obnoxious. And I would travel with this. So when we were on tour, we'd have to get to the And you guys know how you look right? Just greasy, So I'd look like that, And everybody's just quietly And all of a sudden, his &quot;Victoria's Secret And everybody, and would stop and look at me Do you know how quickly your when you can watch a hundred &quot;No, she's not.&quot; She's gonna go walk into So I'm from Washington and they just passed that is banning to use Native American And the high school I went to, our mascot was the Black Hawks. And it takes a to tell the difference between somebody And black cocks. And let me tell you, it going to football games and shout to a stand of parents, &quot;We love Black Hawks, yes we do. We love Black Hawks, And then watching everybody &quot;What the fuck?&quot; It's like the mating So I had my bachelorette and we went to the Has anybody here mention of Oh, we got a few. Oh, are you still wet? Hey. Girl, it is crazy what They brought it back during because if we are women are gushing Medically it's a problem. Okay? It changes the Women with straight hair It's like a Rainforest That air is thick. Three Cs But now that the show's Oh, it is the cream Chef's kiss. For two hours, these just grind the stage they like the cream and then they bring and then they take your top off, and then they take your pants No, I'm kidding. I just wanna see how with me on that part. Did you hear how Could you feel every leaning further forward Pulling out her phone, &quot;Taxi.&quot; Were you like, &quot;Was I in the How'd I miss that?&quot; No, they don't do that, Probably charge a But you do get a At the end of the show they and then they put and they put one of and you get to like ride like, &quot;Free Willie.&quot; They get you hornier in your entire life. And then they just Back into the wild. Single dudes, if you were just go stand outside Like a catcher. We're running outta there, ready to go. Oh. That's something TripAdvisor and that's what I'm here for. I'm like your a creepy uncle. I'm just helping you get laid. I would like to go but not for anything because there's usually The host comes out and he goes, &quot;All right ladies, if you're here for a There's a bunch of young 20 &quot;Oh my god, penises, woo.&quot; And then the host now who here's And it's just one table of &quot;Gimme your dick.&quot; You're like, &quot;Oh my God.&quot; Thank you guys so much for You've been amazing. Welcome back to Pop My Cherry. Tell me what are the rules? - Well, basically throw in the middle and - Just spin it like - Yeah, pretty much. Oh, I'm going that way. - Yeah, you're going this way. - Do you guys wanna like Like try and make it - I'll buy you a drink Yeah. That's fair. - Damn. She really hustles. - She definitely knows what - I hate you. - One. One, two, three, go. - Whoa. - Come on. I'm not - Cuss me out? - You said you're - There's no ref here. - [Announcer] Thank