&quot;It just needs to hold down more aesthetic way than my basting stitches...&quot; I'm pretty sure it's going to look really cool ...and I'm happy to say that the of bring this design together and make it a little bit less like my scrap drawer ...what it did kind of force me to do was This is the &quot;Alternating T-Rex,&quot; Hello friends, and welcome or welcome back! As by day, circus artist by night, and this week's some of my stash, but also to bust my more... because I'm going to be using my scrap bin, some to explore the crazy quilt style of patchwork. who has an absolutely lovely video on the and as soon as I saw how cute her results and since I had a short, overseas contract seemed like the perfect activity to I enjoyed this project so much that I actually this time with some community input from all of later on. But first things first, let's just the origins of this project. Past Shannon: So I've and I also know that I want to use it again inspired by Kristine. It's recommended to to put all of your patchwork on, so naturally I and see if I had something in there that would do I literally stumbled across the perfect thing in this while I was walking Cannelle. It was in the it is a pretty darn good size, and it's in perfect so you *know* we are absolutely going to use means that the next thing we need are all of our attracted me to the crazy quilt concept is the scraps from previous projects, and since we all it should be a surprise to absolutely no one that So not surprisingly, as I'm staring at own leftover sewing projects, there are a lot of but that go pretty well together related in terms of their color scheme. So dump this out on the table, spread it all out, and if there are some fabrics that maybe speak [Music] All right, so I've got everything all sorted out distinctive piles. So we have the cooler blues and grays over here, we have the rather large the one red fabric. This is from my Our Flag great show, one of my favorite reveals of all really wear reds, they don't work super well with out of the question. Which means I have to and I mean, was it really even a question with the hobbit tones, but if you would like so,&quot; there is actually a-- a logical reasoning there are several fabrics that have a white three of the prints have hobbit colors on them. with the earth tones I've got going on here. That bag is going to be a mix of neutrals and earthy now I think the next thing I'm going to do is take and get it laying flat; I think it's just going I can sew it back up at the very end, and then we and actually creating the crazy quilt part of it, I basically went through my entire room basically any miscellaneous crafting supplies thrift stores and dumpsters over the past few All right, let's get the stitches out of this assemble a bag, which means I probably... assembled, so that I know how to put it back wouldn't it? ---or some video! I-- I have of how this was assembled! The good news is because the stitches are ginormous. so should come apart fairly quickly. *singsong of them. It's like they always say, &quot;if you [to self] Oh, that's why it serged. That, my friends, is why it's serged. So serger. One side down, one to go. [off-key Razzle dazzle 'em. Well I feel like I say this every video, but thought it was going to, but it was 100% worth and taken care of, and we aren't going to have leaving little fabric scraps everywhere time to put this lovely sewing machine because the vast majority of the sewing from and probably on a plane, or in another Then I started laying out the scraps on the arrangement with all of the colors, patterns, scrap as possible without cutting anything This was a process of placing, tweaking, and rearranging until I was and balance of colors and shapes on the bag. and baste the fabric in place, a step that I because I knew the project would be open and and I didn't want to worry about the [Music] So it's it's been a couple hours already, and to keep reminding myself that I need to let the sewing room, and that the whole concept of the randomness and the hodgepodge nature, and the comes in the stitching afterwards, and *that's* not on trying to piece this in the most we keep piecing, and basting, and trying to going to look good in the end... well I have but I'm pretty sure it's going to look really end? Right now it just looks a little bit And so I kept on working long into the evening, trying to get the entire bag laid out [Music] The next day, with my canvas all prepped, and embroidery the minute we passed through security. canvas in a tiny airplane seat is maybe not the wasn't that bad; definitely way better than trying for me) finishes by drooling on your neighbor, and plus the best part was definitely the built-in of me, which was actually incredibly useful for All right, so here is where we're at after because I did end up sewing for almost the entire is really helping sort of bring this design *something* and a little bit less like my scrap so that's good news. My plan of attack so far main stitch and use that on each seam to hold or involved or ornate; I figure right now, my and then I can go in later, once that's done, was I fully successful at doing that? No, I on a couple of these themes(?) but I did, for uh, it is almost 1:00 Montreal time, and I awake in a few hours, so I think I'm going to flight. But she did not, in fact, go take and her needle, and legend has it that, to this sitting there, stitching away on her crazy Hello friends! Um, nothing says &quot;jet lag&quot; the bathroom, am I right? Naturally I thought, I some because it's the perfect jet lag project, and stitch a little bit and share some thoughts what I was thinking about all this, so let's get getting on the plane, I wanted to go and look at a to go look at some some examples from magazines She had a booklet with, like, lots of examples wanted to go, you know, scroll through Pinterest embroidery stitches. But the packing process 100% it was very rushed and last-minute, and I did not the plane rather underprepared -- for me. I like I'm doing ahead of time. If you've been here means an embroidery expert - my cape that I made the first time I had ever embroidered anything... happy with it, but it's also a very different type much carryover, quite honestly. And I did feel a kind of force me to do was just to make up stuff. plan, and to just wing it, and honestly I think me to make some stitches up, just make stuff up. and others that are, honestly, a little bit just be like &quot;you know what? It's fine. It just more aesthetic way than my basting stitches&quot; and if anybody is wondering what I'm working on at the colored orange thread to go in and tack down this wool right here is quite thick, so when I folded than the gray wool underneath it, which meant that gap underneath it, because the green was so thick. and literally just tacking down the herringbone and this is again something I'm just kind of anywhere, but it just felt like, because this is to be fairly tight. I don't want anything to be and so I was like, you know what, this is just also going to be pulling double duty, because stitches down a bit tighter... at least that's the I'm just winging it. So those are my late night you later when I'm in a better light and show how it's going, can give you a rundown on some of up or real. So yeah, let's just.. I'll talk So, fun story, we are actually supposed hence all of this. But apparently after sitting our driver showed up at the wrong hotel, so out and waiting for him to show up at the correct I've just been plugging away at this, and I am thought I could give you a quick rundown of sort these panels down. Because there are in fact only and all of them can be conveniently located in Herringbone stitch, up on top, then underneath, it the T-Rex Stitch because it looks a little bit this guy right here, whose name I always forget. I put the name up once I figure out what it is. So and then just kind of doing variations on them, so much larger herringbone than that one, or if we T-Rex - again, very official, but look at that! dance! So those are basically-- just been kind at right now is another variation on the T-Rex three. So I'm just going to keep plugging away on I can get it off my foot-- I would say that I am all of the main stitches, and then I can go back on it, which I'm kind of seeing as optional. As then I can add the lining, and I can go back while the lining is in there. And I think I'm the time I get back to Montreal, because--- [Music] [Music] I brought my sewing with me, because especially on a contract like this, but built-up, performed, cooled-off, and loaded leaving me no time to sew, and only time after a couple days visiting the city, [Music] So I've gone through off-camera and added some and miscellaneous beads, all of it being collected over the years (as I suspect many of garbage piles, all that kind of crafting stuff know what exactly to do with it at time. Well also a great time to experiment with more, like here, for example, because with the beads a style of creativity that I'm as comfortable a very controlled and orderly sort of creativity, me to try some new styles, and let my creativity where I think it looks good enough that [Music] So back when I had just seam-ripped the I used it to measure out the lining for this bag. So really quick let's talk about this community of the video. I've absolutely fallen in love with and also there were just a lot of thoughts and other parts of the process that I didn't get it further and make another video on it. But I if you want to that is. So I've rented and I would be absolutely chuffed if you would to add to my patchwork project. I would love to my viewers, if that's possible. And I will say something that requires you to spend actual money, and if you decide you want to, I'd be happy with envelope, like a letter with minimal postage. resources, and desire to be a part of this next and touched if you would consider contributing. was my robe from Lord of the Rings, and every time people in my neighborhood who came together to my P.O. Box is here up on screen, and it'll be one of the following cities, I will actually be in November or December, and you could potentially if you are so inclined. So feel free to message one of these cities and would like to try and so you can follow along on the adventure, and so when it's released! And if you can't get enough to support the channel further, but also it's the honestly just giving the video a &quot;like,&quot; leaving with your fellow crafters and quilters goes a now enough talk, let's roll the beauty shots! I'm crazy quilt concept, since I want to continue and specifically? Maybe not; finding that bag in the up, but it also wasn't the ideal size or shape work in the meantime, I may have fallen in love to hold knitting supplies, so I think that but in the interim I have an absolutely gorgeous the perfect place to use up at least some of my year. Have you ever tried crazy quilting? If not, way to use up some of your own scrap collection in the comments, and if you'd like to check out right here, and if you haven't seen my patchwork that's going to be right here. Thanks so much for mail if they feel like contributing scraps, and