I have been looking forward to this review for now it's time to find out how they your money. It starts with Panasonic's Welcome back, everyone! I'm Caleb Denison, maybe go check that out first. It's more story behind Panasonic's disappearance from leading up to its recent reappearance and why I'm so excited Panasonic Now, as some of you may know, there are two the U.S.: the W95A mini-LED QLED TV and the Z95A that OLED, but because I had just gotten done it made more sense to start with the W95A. bit in this review, and that Sony needed to get way, way more folks are able and likely to it have a far more approachable price, right but it's also going to be the best So with all of that teed up, let's get into Panasonic sits in the TV industry at large, we'll get into the basics--what it's like to because it's more important than ever with this literally measures up to the competition and, of that leads us to the takeaway. Should you buy So, for those of you who may not remember, dating back at least as far as the late 1980s. but Panasonic, Sony, and Toshiba were known quality. Panasonic stayed right at the peak or tube TV, days, right through the plasma TV the ZT60, was considered the best you Elite from its perch. And not only is it it may just be the best TV that has ever Anyway, even though you may not Panasonic never slacked off. Its OLED TVs been racking up awards overseas, as we TV day we'd get to check them out in person on never stopped being a chart-topper; Now, I'm about to dive into the but I have some really good news that I want know I have always described Sony as having a feel like I can spot a Sony TV a mile away. Well, and to be honest, I'd kind of forgotten about and then it all came rushing back. So, for Panasonic still has its signature look. kind of laid-back, but precise Now, how's that for foreshadowing? But the present. How is this TV? Let's take a look the W95A is Panasonic's flagship mini-LED which sits one tier below Sony's flagship, I think the W95A is an attractive and ostensibly components, and though I'll be the first they have a bit of heft to them and at least the frame is moderately thin, with an heavier weight. This 65-inch model weighs Now, Panasonic TVs, like Sony's, use a MediaTek one of which functions as the eARC port. But the TV does claim to get up to 144 Hz and Panasonic's U.S. models don't get an ATSC 3.0 only shipping these two SKUs to the U.S.; we're and in somewhat limited markets, too, so it's For sound, the W95A has a bass transducer As onboard TV sound goes, it's a little mind that the average kind of stinks, so above that little bass transducer does make a glad that they tossed it in, and the W95A puts sound. I don't know how they're doing it, but Now, I will be making some comparisons between full-on comparison because I didn't have both TVs means I was not able to do a solid side-by-side though, I'd say the Sony perhaps had more appeal, superior about either set. Maybe just get a Well, now we get to the Amazon Fire TV part, and a second, and please, please keep watching coming up. This part? It's not great. Panasonic's to do with Panasonic coming back to the U.S. I but I will. But, I mean, look how Amazon's rocking name on a TV that's using Amazon's Fire TV OS, super-affordable TV tier. Amazon has its own and now Panasonic is here to support I'm glad this is happening, and I will a custom integration with Fire TV OS that you would expect from Panasonic, and then settings options here for us TV nerds, But Fire TV OS--you know, I didn't come in hating TV stick or the Fire TV Cube, like at least four by the changes that have been made in that time. would prefer to interact with my TV and get my I know a lot of people who will like it just fine Amazon world, an Alexa power user even, you'll great. There's some bits about it that I do like. most folks will hate it too. It doesn't do this out any sort of cadence here, but periodically, on the TV, the promotional space up top--the ad folks, that is just a hard no for me. Also, like, me while I'm using a TV with Fire TV built in? I So look, it's important that I with you while also noting that you for me? Love the Panasonic parts; Now, let's dive a little deeper in a section that a section where I get into the measurements EOTF, and other annoying acronyms. If that button--just leap forward to the next section Okay, so let's start out with the fact and more than usual for the knit nerd. You've Professional 1, and Professional 2. Now, I like choice; I just hope that that isn't in Filmmaker Mode and Professional 1. As per Plus HL with Calman Professional software to get a picture modes prior to any adjustments, and I rank of the premium TVs reviewed here can be calibrated Okay, so in Filmmaker Mode SDR, the TV's I don't know if I've seen anything so boldly And for those of you who don't know, 100 to that was developed mostly in line with what bold move. I'll talk about what Professional white balance was pretty interesting, as seen barely over three, and the 30% stimulus was well is that this white balance is almost the exact bit too much red to go with a very level blue and Twenty-point grayscale tells a similar story; and barely at that. Color accuracy? gamut test has barely registerable errors grays. This TV even aced the luminance Now, I promised a PR mode overview in SDR, with brightness maxed out, I got about 1100 story. Grayscale? The midtones got a little so that tracks. Color tests still aced, so a that most folks want with the accuracy they Moving on to HDR, my favorite part might be my just ever so slightly high on the EOTF curve, to the average viewer, that'll make the TV seem just pushing, kind of slightly over-brightening, when I tested the Professional 1 HDR mode, it in Filmmaker Mode HDR, and again it was high. but y'all can see the charts and will Peak brightness in HDR was consistently in the Bravia 7, and yet, as I'll soon the Bravia 7 looked meaningfully brighter and color checker? Both excellent--maybe but definitely one of the best setup TVs out of about 97%, and BT.2020 color was 80%. Sound How we doing on time? We better come if you're just rejoining us, here's compared to its closest rival, the Sony the W95a is evenly matched with the excellent and that is that the Sony has higher measurable or so, which is visible but not nearly you might think. And you see that when you What's easier to notice in a side-by-side slight magenta leaning, like it's got for example, whereas the Panasonic tends to look. It's the kind of difference that you'd of having the TV side by side. Fact is, both TVs Moving on from the measurements, I can tell you W95a was delightful. This is a first-class TV. and Panasonic is judicious with its use of with just the right amount of sparkle. You can Sony Bravia 7, that they are pretty evenly fire the intense red that we're looking The W95a's black levels, as you with minimum blooming and halo. Little tiny think--I've got to look so hard for it but I've been pouring over this image for a while zone transitions are pretty snappy with no content. You just see the gorgeous picture, this TV's color is phenomenally accurate if really deliver there, and you see that even in Those muted colors often look forced on other But the motion on this TV--that has got to Panasonic's processing in a while, but this is not in actual content. We can use the Spears telling you, from football to Fargo, this TV looks This is another area I wish I'd been able to and the W95a, but if I had to place a bet, here. I do have to say, though, that if I'm poor off-angle performance and so-so reflection the W95a is in the same camp. But let a lot of folks in the comments and Bravia 7--many of them have written that they been overblown by reviewers. Am I guilty of Now, I got to say, wherever you stand on Hey, sorry for the awkward break edit, of the gaming features on this particular couple of important things. The first is a backlit remote. But the other thing there doesn't appear to be an input selector That's something I'd like to see changed. The to mention is the panel uniformity on this to notice in some of the B-roll that we shoot What's interesting, though, as you symmetrical vertical bands. They're not like dirty screen effect. There's no real way in transit--this TV was for sure used before the quality control of the production. we don't really know, which is why I have 'cause there's no guarantee that what I experience get when they buy their stuff at retail. But like I wanted to make sure I mentioned it so you Guys, this TV is so good. If you appreciate as art as much as you do entertainment, I ever-so-slightly more affordable TCL QM8. but what it lacks in muscle, it I think this TV is built to last a while as it's just a gut feeling. Between the Bravia 7 going to depend on how you feel about Fire TV. I because from a picture performance perspective, own flavor; each is delicious. Like, kind of person? Thai curry or Indian curry? time out--that last one was a joke because Anyway, the Panasonic W95A--it's fantastic. I know me know if you decide to get this TV and tell everyone. Please like, comment, and subscribe--you and until then, here are two other