[UPBEAT MUSIC] Rachid: Hey, there, and welcome I'm your host, Rachid Finge, and this is at Google and get the built the products you use and love. Now, this week is all about security. What does Google do to keep users You have that thing on you all is extremely important. What is the biggest threat these days? And also, where does end, and where does We're discussing all these who is a top expert on the topic. He's the director of Please say hi to Eugene Liderman. [UPBEAT MUSIC] Eugene, welcome to the Please tell us a bit more about your Eugene: Yeah, thank you. So I've been here almost five years. It'll be five years in April. I'm the Director of Primarily, I focus on My team participates in a and we do a lot of certification and help our partners certify Prior to Google, I was at And prior to that, is actually at I've worn every hat you can think of. I've been in product I've even had a couple of stints So what's really neat working on more backend so more of traditional And as I've evolved in moved from cloud to mobile, down to Rachid: Great. Now listeners of the know that I usually go to the where I see the personal Yours is the longest one we had to date. I think it had a length limit in and you made sure you use that. It says, &quot;Build trust with consumers, key opinion performers, and and privacy capabilities and independent validation.&quot; I guess that basically There's nothing left out there, right? Eugene: Exactly. It's comprehensive, I think. Rachid: Today's guest has dedicated Eugene Liderman has been fighting and on all sorts of computers. Cloud ones, virtual ones, and As a director of security to make sure Google does the right users are well protected. That goes from things you might to things you don't, like encryption. And as you'll hear, working means making sure you as a user can the heavy security lifting for you. Just don't ignore those red lights. I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. So let's start our because maybe that's not about when you think about security. So why is transparency Eugene: First and foremost, I mean, in any relationship you have is a good thing. I actually apply that I try to be very transparent Rachid: Sure. Doesn't mean I come off but I definitely try to be transparent. A really good quote actually Lama, &quot;a lack of transparency and a deep sense of insecurity.&quot; So it's something that Rachid: That's a good point. And you're right that that's not but I guess being transparent or the things we do to people will want to know about it. Eugene: Yeah. The other big thing is, I mean, as That's a really big If anybody wanted to, they can simply Actually, it helps us work really We publish a lot of content. We even publish a quarterly that has top-line metrics for things and we're always trying to provide audiences that I mentioned above. So it's consumers, key opinion-formers, Rachid: So that open always confuses me a little bit people can see if-- that is the ultimate form At the same time, if can probably figure out and then exploit that. So how do we keep that in check? Eugene: Honestly, the the fact that it's open a lot more people protecting Android. When you're running a there's not a lot of eyes on it. It's kind of hard to scrutinize. A lot of people refer to it Transparency does shine a light, but looking at it and partners protecting. So that means security researchers, Everybody is trying to do the And so if you actually look when it comes to security, Android devices achieve We've gone through-- a lot of Android in the US and other countries. So I mean, it doesn't I think it actually strengthens it. Rachid: So we're now talking about as it's often called. We know we're talking system, basically the hardware. What are some of the be aware about when they specifically for mobile devices? Eugene: Yeah. Smartphone technology has I mean, there's a lot of things I would sees. Obviously, devices have encryption. That encryption is usually Not to go super technical, but there's and that is used for key primitives for the entire device, protecting to authenticate to the device, of the operating system is there. And as you move up the stack, So the OS isolates everything. So everybody talks about app Sandboxing basically means that is isolated from one another. It has its own dedicated CPU cycles, and the only way it really communicates And then it can communicate But it's all isolated in a way is separate from one another. Rachid: Right, so if one app runs it won't affect another app. Eugene: That's the general Rachid: Right. So you were talking about Maybe something that we do see as a people safe is Google Play Protect. Maybe users, of course that's where they get their apps from. But what is Play Protect Eugene: Play Protect is the most It's installed on over Rachid: Wow. Eugene: It scans over 125 and that formula is basically, if multiply that by the number of it does a daily scan of all those apps. It's both an app on the phone but it's So every app that gets goes and gets scanned It does a bunch of things. There's static analysis, It uses a lot of machine and so forth to see what's going on There's heuristics, The user doesn't know that because they install an app, the last thing and then it downloads it to the device. Now that's just before it Of course, it also-- as a user, Play Protect service, rather. Rachid: Yep. Eugene: And you can get or from the Settings of the phone. And you can always run a manual scan. It works offline as well. And it basically will show you that you It also actually scans-- or download outside will scan those as well on your device. So it's fairly comprehensive. Rachid: Now, you mentioned Machine learning, AI, two topics we So how is that beneficial to Eugene: Yeah. I mean, anything that you you're going to be And you'll hear this across the board. I mean, obviously I now because of what we're talking But overall, I mean, it's products for a long period of time. It's used across all We're always using machine learning to understand-- to be able to pick And so this is not just a It applies to what we do for across all of our Rachid: Well, let's talk about phishing, I think people are worried about. It's maybe one of the larger perhaps the largest threat you Eugene: Honestly, I think at this malware, especially during COVID. It went really bad. I think phishing spiked heavily. And there's lots of research that it was In fact, there was a said in 2022, phishing on mobile went up or attempts. And the reason for look at a traditional it'd be your laptop or your desktop. Well, you're connected for a little Your phone, you're always Your phone's always-- at least in or next to me. And so you're going to going to open it and see to respond and do something with it. Now a phone is also a So as a screen, it's a little bit harder You have to really read through it. And so I think this is why it's become Rachid: So how do we do that? I guess phishing is maybe someone maybe you shouldn't have done that. And then we got to make So how do we approach that? Eugene: Let's start with what Well, phishing could be a way to try to of them or for them to do something. That could be sending a link to install making them think that they and put in their username and I think the cool thing is this out-of-box protection. So historically, it was all email-based. A lot of people would Well, Gmail blocks 99.9% of that we talk about is it's that we block in terms of scale. Talk about scale, right? Power by ML and AI. But a lot of those phishing So with Google Messages, we and phishing protection. And so the way that works the reputation of the sender, that the sender might send. And actually, it's using of the message itself to understand And it'll flag it. And what's really nice is it makes it really easy for because as it starts detecting it, it'll Out of sight, out of mind. You don't have to sit there is this an important message or not? And some other operating systems have let me just block all unknown senders. Well, what happens in that situation? What if you get a text from your or a one-time passcode You might miss all of that So you want to have And the same honestly Message-based is popular, is also coming back. And so there's lots of great You have Caller ID and Spam Protection. And then one of my favorite features, but I love Call Screen, of the day, the people that they're a sales organization. They have quotas. They buy leads. And so if you can deter So Call Screen is a great stretches that conversation out. Rachid: And Call Screen is where-- just be sure, Call Screen is the phone on your behalf first, right? Eugene: Yes, exactly. And it's done in a The last thing I want to say is, it's So let's just use the Messages example. I get a text message. It's a phishing link. As a user, we're so that we ignore warnings sometimes. At least some users. And so you see the red warning. It says, don't click this. User ignores that warning, clicks it. It opens up Chrome. Well, Chrome leverages Safe leveraged across 5 billion devices. And with Safe Browsing, detect phishing and malicious websites. So then when that link is open in as well saying, hey, don't click this. But let's take it even a step that Warning, too, and they click it. Chrome will, of course, warn them And let's say in this case, they try Well, then that's when So it's really this Rachid: That's a lot of layers. And that all starts, in this case, aware of it, but there is, a spam folder with text messages and for good reason. But even if you would see it, you would maybe open Chrome. Safe Browsing, which basically is a that no normal person And then even if you still get there-- well, you need to go to great through this way. Eugene: Yep. And one other that so like I said, is phishing either bad to compromise your try to steal information from you. And so I think this is another great the identity protection features that are powered by Google, really. So a good example one So the fact that you do have the and it will actually alert you if any The other thing that you have so important to everything protect it using two-step verification. You can get a one-time passcode. Or my favorite feature is where I actually use my phone And that is impervious And then the last piece is you have this So literally, if somebody ever tries you will get a pop up on you can see all your recent from where they happened. You can revoke access right away. It really gives you that central place. And it actually all ties look at on Pixel devices, and we have really unified the Security And so you can see all and it gives you this yellow, red view of what looks like on your phone. You don't need to be an expert. You just see that information. And then you can actually directly from the notification So you know, oh, hey you have a password because it's on the dark web somewhere. OK, cool. I did that. My status is green Rachid: I think I'm green. I'm not green, I'm orange. I got to do something That's interesting. So yeah, that's the Security Definitely worth checking out, as I definitely that I needed to do. You just mentioned something that we see that in news once in a a passwords leak, and then they And if you re-use your password on pretty dangerous, because now people-- those criminals could have You mentioned that Chrome or such a thing happens. So how does that work and where Eugene: Yeah, it's actually built in. So without going into the basically monitoring all the passwords. I mean, generally, it uses obviously, to check the passwords. But the way it would work is it monitors that you can get access to it. But the easiest is through the and that notification center where And in your example, It's saying likely, you been on one of these lists, these dumps of compromised and it will remedy for you to change it. The other cool thing that I think of years, especially because is the use of passkeys, which There's this new passwordless standard and public infrastructure. And so you'll see, I think, a lot to move away and all the have announced support for passkeys. Rachid: So that is, I create an account and I just use my Eugene: That's right. Under the hood, there's more. But as a user, that's And it's transferable across Rachid: OK. And I've never been asked, then, to come and store it somewhere. Eugene: But until there's better for example, your Google identity and ensuring that your Google and better than sending I think that's probably the best-- use the Google Authenticator use phone as a security key, which Rachid: And of course, you also that you put on your keychain. Well, that's the thing. Phone as a security key's using But it's relying on the instead of having to pay So I have one of those. I have a physical key. I have a couple sitting in my home. But my phone is my security key. So any time I'm on the go, Rachid: So this is almost more But if you look at security, if a user then gets into is it on the industry or Eugene: We want to make it as So I think the thing really good out-of-the-box security. So we have all these services running Of course, users can ignore They introduce their own risk. So I think there's a And the one thing I is one, leverage all of try to read up on some of the we make it easy for you. Obviously Password a new password for every single Do that. Don't go against the I'm going to use the same password. Or if you get an alert, It's kind of like going to the If you linger and you don't take you might be much more sick. But if you follow the guidance and so for you, you have that orange. You should act on it Rachid: Definitely. That's a very good analogy. Yeah, let's make it all So Eugene, we close every episode something they can do in this case to become more safe. [UPBEAT MUSIC] I have a sneaking suspicion but please enlighten us. What's the top tip for Eugene: Yeah. I mean, I think I gave it away already. I should have saved it for the ending. But I definitely think what's available on these devices. So I highly encourage making sure on in Google Messages, leverage and Caller ID and Spam Protection, which And then if you see a red Doesn't mean go. So definitely follow the warnings that the Security and Privacy if it's available to you. Like I said, it's available on Pixel and hopefully rolls out But if not, obviously you can still Also there's other cool If you want to know what apps are they're having access to, you have that available as well. So just be astute of what's And it's a team battle. We as Android and Google but the user has to Rachid: Yeah. And it sounds like you so all the user has to do and everyone will live a Eugene: Exactly. I think that's the thing to think well and make security not scary, and to you, you should enjoy your like taking great pictures, and watching things you can do on your phone. Don't worry about all the because we have your back. Rachid: Well, we're glad we have to have and all those phones are kept safe, Eugene, thank you so much for joining Eugene: Thank you. It was a pleasure. [UPBEAT MUSIC] Rachid: Well, I hope you and that's doing the security or on your mobile phone is all green and all right. Love hearing from Eugene, how and how we use multiple layers of I'm so grateful you joined us for podcast. If you're not a subscriber yet, maybe Just hit Subscribe or Follow, whatever and make sure you don't miss another podcast. Thanks again for listening. Take care. Talk to you next week. [UPBEAT MUSIC]