What's up, Anazala family? We missed you guys. I know, right. Summer break. And I don't have school Okay guys, so let's tell So we're going to the swimming pool. Swimming. But something you guys don't know of swimming in the deep end. Even when he's wearing He literally freaks out. The minute his feet don't touch So guys, Anas believes that he's And he's actually gonna I really don't think he's I know my son. He's very Oh come on! Okay guys, so that's the goal for today we have a second goal Mila has never swam in the So today... Daddy Daddy is gonna teach me how to swim Is that true? Yes, that is true. Yeah, finally, you haven't been Wow, it was cold. By the way, I really love teaching because you know, you hear of God forbid they drown or something. So, I'm really happy because I think this will of having our kids fully Can I say something? Yeah. If mommy looks a little bit Oh, dang it, what are those! Guys, so Asala's like 3'9. No, I'm not Stop i'm 5'2 She's not 5'2 So anyways guys this we're gonna go now to the Oh, where's your brother where's Alan? I told him to get ready, Okay guys, so Alan is here but for whatever reason because he stays up really late at night So it's hard for him teenagers he's 15, so we're Mila I need you to wake him up loud Do you want me, like, to scream? Yes Okay Oh yeah he's here Okay Allen Allen! can we go in? Okay, you're his sister can we go in? Can you guys stop I was sleeping Bro, we told them we're going You got dressed at least, I see that. Yeah, I slept. Wow. Sorry, I'm ready now. Okay, let's go. Alright, let's go. What? Let's go. Not asleep. Yo, hello? Alan! What happened to the room? Alan! We got to go Okay. Pool's gonna be busy. Okay, let's move, let's move. Okay, Alan, let's go. Come on, bro. Come on. What happened to the room? How did this turn into a tornado? I'm still unpacking yeah Yeah? Yeah A tornado flew around my room before Okay, noah, I have a question for you. Do you think you're gonna Nope. Why? Because it's too scary and Okay, if we put floaties on you you're gonna sleep in there Yeah and I sleep in there You're gonna sleep in there Okay see he's saying he's gonna do it He just says that I know I still swim with floaties You know what's funny, Runs in the family. Okay, let's go Okay guys, so we're You didn't tell them What chocolate? Oh, okay, go show them So guys, you're about to hear Okay, oh, guys, you won't No, it isn't. Yeah, it is. I don't know if you guys know, but there's this viral Guys, look at it here. It has and it's like a weird chocolate. She's been begging us Do you know how hard it Three months, I've been trying. Guys, three months. Who does that for chocolate? I'm a foodie, okay? Me and my family, we're foodies. well, it's here today, so let's open it. No, stop! This is a big moment for everyone, okay? I wanted to show you guys. I finally got it all the way from Dubai. Oh my God. Oh my goodness! We're gonna try it. We still didn't try it because- So this is the most viral. This is the one It comes with six bars. Okay. Which one is the one So there's one of them that's Hold on. This one. This is the one that This is so crazy, guys. This is not an ad. We did not get paid for this. We actually paid a lot of money Who does that? They're actually expensive. Is that what people-, Like, would you guys Just cause it went viral on TikTok. Okay, let me say something. If it wasn't good, that they wouldn't the minute they opened the website. Every day they sell out at 5 p.m. in one minute. Guys, I bet you- And I got my hands on it! I'm we're gonna try it today! Guys, I bet you money, money, that Okay, so we're gonna try What You need to tell them that I'm actually Honey, you're crazy for getting it. It took 16 hours for this Okay, can we just move on? So we're gonna now go to the pool Because it's probably way more important then eat viral chocolate Okay, okay here We go. Let's go, ready? And don't forget to comment #TeamAsala No #TeamAnas why me me Guys! team Anas: put a A pink heart for me No! purple for me Pink Heart Team Asala The one who puts the we'll mention their name You know what's happened, guys? So, my tummy is hurting and and like one big wobble, it wasn't like. Guys, yeah, he had a little tummy Feel better now? Yeah! Okay, Noah, are you Yeah! Okay, I think he's ready. I think he's really ready. Okay, let's go I think Noah's the most Boba! Okay, here we go here. We have a plan guys listen Noah. Here's the deal Let's make a You'll get boba shake hands. Are you gonna do it? Are you gonna do it? What do I get Honey, you'll get your chocolate. You know how much money guys I don't want to okay actually you know what when we open the Chocolate we'll It's crazy It's great. It's worth it We don't even know that yet. Okay. Let's go. Okay guys, so we just So Asala was saying that we don't We lost them. So we went to the beach like a week And Alan's here. I'll be watching the kids He's gonna be with the Aw, Noah. This is Target. Dude, Asala loves Target. I love it. It's a happy I'm a sunny wife. You're what? Happy wife, happy life. I forgot the credit card. No, you didn't. Yeah, I did. Do you see me holding a purse? So do you not have a credit You have Apple Pay I'm just kidding, I have the card Babe We've got 3 minutes We have 3 minutes because the to It's like a community pool And there's only limited canopy We're literally going to get burnt if we It's summer so we gotta be fast Where are you going? Well I'm going there, that's So let's go So what do you want? We've got to get the pool a big blow-up of, what is it called? Tube? It's gonna really suck if we get to So let's move on. Should we get like extra life jackets? Imagine this. This is really nice. No, I like this one. No, you know why? Because if you put it on him, and he'll swim for a while. You think so? Yeah. Guys, we've tried everything on Noah. He literally has never And I think this one will help because but it's gonna support his arms. Okay, I get this Ok I think they'll If they're gonna go So, I think this is it for us Honey we gotta hurry because do we have snacks you got snacks didn't you Of course I did. Of course she did.This one Oh sunscreen, we need sunscreen Oh, yeah, okay. I see that's what I mean you got that's amazing. Okay, fine. I'll get this small one cuz you're cheap Wow, if you guys know how that she's gonna open soon, you'll know that I am NOT Okay, can we move? I ended up getting the I'm cheap The more the merrier Look, You jinxed itNow it's gonna explode You're paying and look at this Yeah, every time we come target Bye! Honey, I think they're Okay, here we go. Credit card. Yes, ma'am. Here we go. Credit card. Okay, next stop? The pool. Oh my god. What did you do? Oh no! What happened? I left my phone at Target! Go back! They're gonna steal it. No, seriously. Do you Did you actually lose it? Yeah I don't- Is this a prank? I told you. Call my phone. Is this a prank? Okay, Alan, Alan, call her Is it in the back? And if somebody saw it, they'd pick up. Okay, we're calling, Yep, they stole it. Yeah, it's gone. You literally pushed Your call has been I'm currently trying to check my iPhone, find my iPhone on Anas' phone, and see if hopefully nobody stole it. We're trying to drive Find my iPhone. I think it's on silent. It is, I put it on silent. Okay, okay, okay, just Find my iPhone. Yeah, sign in. I don't remember my account. Okay, okay, hold on. Alright guys, it doesn't look So what happens if I can't believe you lost the phone. You! I was holding the stuff. Why is this complicated? Ah! Everything's falling apart. Oh my god, okay, we're I don't even have ID or anything. Quickly, quickly. They stole my phone! It has everything on there! Honey, they didn't steal your This is actually crazy. Are you okay? I got a blister from these crocs, look. Then why'd you buy them? Okay. I remember I left it right here. Yeah, I left it here. I'm hearing it I hear it I swear Alan's calling it It's probably in customer service probably somewhere Let's check customer service what if it's there, so that's the one we use go check what did she say she said go to guest services dude I swear to god I hear it, yeah yeah it's somewhere there yes someone's here someone's there yeah I think someone took I hear it It's here it's with they're here Yeah I think they found it I hear it is They held my phone for me she was crying I was actually gonna cry okay so they told us they Found it. Okay, here we go. They're gonna give it to us now. She's kind of making me sad. Why? Why is she not giving me It's still ringing. Oh my God, my heart. My heart literally almost sank. Here we go. We're about to get it. Did somebody report it? Someone turned it into a team member. Oh wow. Oh my goodness. Dude, your freak out was crazy. Alright guys, pool time! Okay, we just made it here. So basically the pool is in a community Okay, so let's hope there's I don't know. I'm seeing people. Yeah, but I don't know if it's a lot. Okay Mila, here's the key. give me the key Okay, go quickly. Yay! Okay, here we go. There's actually not a lot of people. No way! We got lucky! Yeah, oh my God. Why is there no people in here? There's actually no one. We have the whole pool to ourself look who's here. Oh now The whole thing is wet, okay, okay, okay Noah you have to promise me to Wait daddy look at this! That's what you're doing Yeah, that's what he's doing are you swimming by yourself? Yeah No, with nobody Nope No one's gonna hold you No duh What? duh? Okay guys something you need to know I used to be a lifeguard for like five, Yeah, I actually saved a few Okay, so Liam is basically who's gonna convince Yep. Okay, let's see. Okay guys, but before they There we go. Expensive kind. All right, ready? It's cold Oh, this is actually. Oh, wow. Hey, I'm gonna turn into a ghost. Okay Mimi. All right, we got the nose. This is exciting. Do you think they're Do you think Noah will Every time he's done it before, he's He cries. I think we'll convince him today. Between me, Liam and Alan, I told them if they go to So that's that. Daddy, ooh. Let's go. Okay guys, close your eyes. Make sure it's a sunscreen. Oh my God, that's not going to go away. I didn't think it was- Oh my god, Yo guys look what I did Oh my god it's so blurry. Wait wait here That's supposed to work Here we go, here we go, Oh wow Ok, here we go. I'm ready to go Bro, I'm pretty sure you Oh, that's a sticker. Okay, so the first thing Asala Babe, we're here to swim. I'm kind of hungry. Because it takes time to come. So hurry, I'm ordering. Okay, so guys, we start with healthy, Well, that's why I wanted we're going to show you oh okay And we're going to rate it. Is it actually good? Like from 1 to 10. And I'll tell you how much it Okay, so Mila, Noah, are yeah Okay, let's go swimming. Okay, wait, wait, wait, You need to put this on. Okay, Liam, you're in charge of this. Put the life jacket for Noah. I don't want it Oh my God. He's already freaking out. I told you. With me, he's gonna go in and do it. Here we go, Liam. I like the confidence. Noah, you were just telling me you I was just pranking. Watch when I get in there. Here we go. Watch. Noah, are you ready to swim? Yeah! Yo, you wanna bet? I do wanna bet He's not going to go He will go Okay, are you ready? Yeah, okay. Are you ready? yeah She's going in Noah Take your shoes off Okay guys, so first. We're gonna see Mimi, and we're in the deep end without floaties Are you good Yeah Okay listen, okay, we're getting really close to I'm scared, what do I do? Okay look, now are you at the deep end? Can you touch the floor? oh okay Okay baby listen, okay here's the goal Liam you go far, far, far, then Mila, there's no way you're Okay, you're gonna have to Impossible. One, two, and three, go. Oh, nice job. Okay, and back. The kicking, the kicking. You have to kick more. Wow. You have to kick more potato. she's going again... Oh, I'm going back. Oh. Something we taught Mila is anytime she just does one Okay, we're gonna show you now, okay? One, two, three. There you go. Yeah, relax. We relax. We make sure everything is good. Then we open our eyes and look for help. Quickly turn around, look for help. Where's help? Where's help? Good job. Yeah. I love you so much. It's so important to teach your Because if you don't, it's Where is she? to the back good job i'm so proud of you so if you have a teenager you kind of try to keep them underwater now let's hope noah is hey noah you ready to go to the deep This is the deep That's not the deep, Noah, are you ready to go to the deep? I don't want to go there What? I don't want to go fall there. Why? What about with me? Nope What did he say? He said nope. Okay guys, so it looks like Noah still confidence to go to the deep. So I say we eat first and I say we play first, get him more That's disgusting! Oh, I love you! Okay, guys, moment of truth. Ta-da! I can't believe I'm Okay, okay, okay. So, guys, we're doing it as a TikTok. Okay, so, guys, after you see so check it out there. But we're gonna open it First, let me tell you how much is this. So how much is this box? Okay, guys, so this viral This is so crazy! Okay, okay, keep in mind, so it's not like one bar one two three four six so each one's so each is like 15 or 30? baby did you ever go to a She's like 30$ Cut that out, we're gonna your math teacher we need okay we're not putting that yeah we are yeah okay guys $15 each oh that's crazy you can buy a yeah but this quality you're gonna see Okay. We'll see. Okay. so the one yeah So the one that so this has pistachio inside and it's Okay, guys, so we're gonna So make sure to follow us on TikTok &quot; The Anazala Fam Okay, so we're gonna start filming now We get to try it I told you its hype Okay, ready Okay, so we're going One. Two Here we go. Okay. All right, guys. Finally, we got our hands on It's called Fix. Apparently, look at the packaging. It took me three months to get this. Yeah, it's actually been Okay, so we're about to try them. Apparently, the most Is that the pistachio one? Yeah, this is the Knafa pistachio one. And everybody's been talking about this. It's like got millions and So let's see if it's For the first time. Okay, Mila, Mila. Mimi's gonna try it with us too. I love chocolate pistachios. I think this is gonna be good. Okay, let's see. Let's try, Moment of truth. Okay, ready, honey? We gotta open this gently Something you guys is I'm a real honest So you're gonna tell the truth. I'm gonna tell the truth. For starters, I think the quality oh my god look how it looks I'm gonna show them... you're seeing okay i'll show you guys here, ready Look at that It's so pretty Look at this Noah Do you see that Can I try it Yeah we're gonna try Yo, it's kinda melting, He's mesmerized 3, 2, 1 Oh Oh my god Look at this! Smell it, wow! Oh my god! Bismillah Okay, don't say your opinion Okay Asala this is your turn Okay I'll taste mine Okay, we're gonna take the bite together what three do not exaggerate give go Oh Okay okay rate 9.5 out of 10 wow one of straight off the bat no exaggeration. It's really good 9 out of 10 Okay, let's go Okay, guys so for all the do not pay a hundred dollar for a lot of money to be spending. We just got it to show you And honestly that was it. So yeah, okay, so this is it guys Okay guys, moment of truth Okay, Noah, come on, Noah, come on Here we go, I need to convince Noah Noah, come here, okay I don't wanna go far away You don't wanna go far away? Okay look, remember what we said? You gotta go there, if you go there then you win and you get boba, okay? Noah, are you up for the challenge? Yeah Okay, he said yeah. Okay. Okay, Noah, are you ready? And you have mommy and daddy with you. Okay, I'm right here. but don't take me that far Okay, I won't put you far. Guys, we're already Oh my god. Okay, so we're gonna count. Wait, wait. So Noah, we're gonna count till 15. We're all going to see- Okay, I'm gonna leave you, okay? Are you ready? Okay, say three. and then we're gonna count to 15 Okay here we go Two, Three, Four, Five Six, Seven I'm not touching the floor I know he's not touching the floor! Eight, Nine, Ten, Eleven, Twelve Thirteen, Fourteen, Fifteen! Guys look at my feet they're Yay! Guys, this is the first time Okay, go swim, to Liam. One, two, three, go! Oh, you can't make it here, bro. Come on! No way, you did it! Guys, honestly, this I didn't even think and I doubted it, but I'm so proud. I honestly can't believe so this is actually so, so crazy. Especially with you guys, the Anazala and to many more memories together. We love you guys, See Can't wait to share more Oh my god. That's insane