&gt;&gt; And I like to welcome you to the The Veritas Forum is an opportunity for and explore life's hardest questions. The students and the in campus ministers who that Jesus Christ has something relevant for knowledge, truth and significance. With that inspiration, we welcome those and commitments to the table, and we honor all and our hope is that the Veritas Forum will not that it will come out of real community, earnestly exploring questions We hope tonight's events will draw all of its discussions, stories and friendship. The Veritas Forum at Dartmouth College is Aquinas House, Atheist Humanist Agnostics Christian Union, Crew-Dartmouth, The C.S Lewis Dartmouth faculty and staff, Christian Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the and Leadership, the Office of Religious and the Waterman Institute and We're grateful for all the and alumni who helped create this forum. Before we continue I'm going to ask We're not going to ask them to turn them off and I'm also going to ask you to locate Also, if you would like to take You are welcome to try and take pictures, but there will be pictures During the first few minutes of the out the cards that are on your seats. How about let's fill it out together. The first question is your role on campus. My role on campus is staff Your childhood background. My childhood background, Molus Christian. My current orientation is Christian as well. Now, if you locate the next question, it says send me a one-time survey So what do you have to lose? So if you can give us your email address. And what's your biggest question after of the forum to fill out, and you and we'll collect them at the end. We want everyone to fill out the Fullop whatever your background or beliefs, because the thought-provoking and engaging We need your feedback to make next so please take a minute to We promise we won't spam you. So before we begin, we'd If you try to persuade me to change If you agree it's arrogant to think you If you agree it's tolerant to tell Disagree, it's respectful to Disagree, it's loving if you're you can see the responses coming in. [ Background noise ] How insightful is this, don't you think? [ Background noise ] Keep the responses coming. I know there's more than 59 of you out there. [ background noise ] Universities today talk a great Tolerance demands only that you peacefully that you don't judge others, don't judge, that don't tell, that you affirm all [ Background noise ] Give you a few more seconds. [ Background noise ] Dartmouth is a diverse community. What's required to create a respectful We should affirm all worldviews and positions to persuade anyone to change their beliefs, but that doesn't make them true, we should [ Background noise ] How do you wish conversation Text conversation and the word that you conversation here at Dartmouth, and we'll see [ Background noise ] Okay. Throughout the talk, we want you to to today's discussion, so if and your question to the same number. We're going to leave the number out but a friendly reminder, if you can put your as to not interfere with the lecture. With that said, it is now my privilege Ravi Zacharias is a noted Christian about pluralism, tolerance and peace. For 35 years, Ravi Zacharias has spoken all over Harvard, Princeton, and Oxford University. He has addressed world leaders on the topics and he's the author of numerous books, Jesus Among Other Gods, and the Lotus He has been privileged to speak at the the United Nations' Annual Prayer Breakfast, and First Annual Prayer Breakfast He's presently Senior Research Oxford University in Oxford, England. Please help me welcome Ravi Zacharias. [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; Ravi Zacharias: Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, thank you. I hope you feel the same when it's into this beautiful auditorium on such an by how the technology puts so we immediately know what and almost hearing people change their minds. Now, that's as incredible as it gets. The evening will be as follows: I will Interestingly enough, let me give because it'll add to the theme of today. My ancestors came from the highest caste I myself became a follower of Jesus in my teens. I mention all of that to say because at the by Dr. Nabeel Qureshi, who hails -- actually and he is formerly a Muslim and And I find it incredible when I think of and if there's any point of tension of the Indo-Park conflict, I've just returned from India a few days ago, of tolerance in an American University campus, to speak to an audience like this. Only in America could we have such a from a discussion can also be of great meaning. It reminds me of the guy, of the gentleman walked into this dining room and there An Englishman looking at him thought so when the Japanese gentleman sat the English gentleman looked at him and picked And then he took the knife and and &quot;this be forky,&quot; &quot;this be platey.&quot; And the Japanese gentleman kept nodding. The end of the lunch, the the Japanese was the keynote speaker. And he delivered the talk in at the Englishman and said, &quot;You likey speechy?&quot; I feel a little bit like that today, although But it's just wonderful to have a privilege Thank you to all of the groups that have made it your warm invitation, and when Nabeel joins a medical doctor by training but He is part of my team now, and I I thought it would be just exciting to I was raised an Indian minority, both and by virtue of my faith, India's The Christian population at that time so growing up in those settings, you get or learning to live in a pluralistic I returned from Indian last week, and amazingly whether it is a business community or whether it was the medical every setting to have a packed audience, about meaning and what it Once upon a time I'd be standing in terrified because I knew my worldview would of the audience in front of me, and now notably I've a few times I've done it with the listen, interact, ask some of the brightest of what it is to be able to discuss some of which could actually go deep into the but to do it in a civil way without of bitterness that oftentimes So I hope whatever happens tonight, that that at the end of it around your tables that these issues can be because let's ask ourselves What is the ultimate goal Is it really that we will I doubt it. That is really to pursue the impossible, but of our disagreement, we will learn to live in a I have learned to live that way. I've learned to be in audiences like that. Many times I'm in Islamic universities. I know how tense those audiences will be. I remember a few years ago being in the oldest and in front of that audience with mullahs having to speak for one hour in the defense at the end of it when I walked in the professor of world religions there was Professor Baharudin to me were: &quot;If it were not improper, I and give you a hug for the way the And I said &quot;Professor Baharudin, that's So whether it's in a Buddhist framework or or a secular framework, this is my calling, and without warrant or without meaning to come to let me know, because that is not my intent. My intent is to get us thinking because America's at the crossroads. The America and the North America into to the North America of today, and one has to such turmoil and go viral within minutes that does not really benefit So please as we present it, we want to do of deep tension, what I would want more so that we know at least that we are In the 1980s there was an article in which America was being discussed as a to how far it had come in prior years. So 1980s was the year the sociologists were that were taking place, and the article written of culture, and this is how he worded it: of answers to the existential situations that confront all human beings So when you take that statement alone, you of coherence as the goal to meaning the felt questions, the heart and the of answers to the existential questions that That is the goal of what culture is and other social theorists were commenting. But then they went on to say this: &quot;We are in and they were looking at the previous And here's what they said, &quot;A is one that makes a decisive break with the which relate to the deepest questions of A cultural revolution is under way when you of the past, particularly on the issues and they said that decisive break had taken a cultural revolution was in full sway. As they began to discuss the various issues that in a fascinating end to the He goes and surveys individuals and as to what it is they now really that had begun two decades earlier. And here's one couple by and this is the way Yankelovich summarized of your needs, and if these needs are of others, or simply unfillable, then frustration inevitably follows, Self-fulfillment means having a career and and autonomy and being liberal and having on social justice and enjoying city life and and reading and good friends and on and on. But the individual is not truly fulfilled to move too far in this direction is to risk And then he ends with these incredible words: one must lose one's self contains a truth any The injunction that defined one's self one must of self-fulfillment needs to grasp.&quot; Now, if the social theorists in studying come to this conclusion that in the end you passions, you will end up with a collapse and he says what really matters then at that to you that if you want to find You have to lose yourself, and it in North America to come to terms with. Now, what's true of Mark and What's true of a family is true of a community, The statement is positively clear, that in order contains a truth any seeker of Now, here it is, he's laying down a And I think it is critical we understand that and the dignity of the intent with which it's from anybody in all ways of thinking, and to in every way in all of our It will never be so, for they Now, I want to help you travel with me for and describe three moods that took over. The first two are very critical Nothing wrong with the entry point. It is it the exit point that has created to take a step back to redefine what There are three moods that began to take over. Writers were dealing with it, and the secular of a secularized worldview And so the first mood that in articulation was the mood What do I mean by that? Secularization is the process by and interpretations are losing It's a process by which religious and interpretations are losing Very readily, if you take any volatile issue and you put a panel in front of or a highly educated philosopher or a university president, a lawyer, and and the discussion is under way, to an the skeptic will say the of the whole group by virtue The assumption will be made that everyone or her philosophical or theoretical homework only the religiously minded I have a colleague of mine She went to a very prestigious and in one of her lectures the professor was Now, I find that very fascinating. I know that same professor would never do it certainly not with Islam because he probably on the subject. It's true, because they will not to blaspheme that which they consider sacred. Richard Dawkins, if he really had the ought to stand up in audiences where he with his worldview and find out that But this young student was sitting and she says to the professor: You are constantly attacking that which is She is sent to the Dean's office. So she goes over to the Dean's office, He says, &quot;Because you're being She said, &quot;I'm not being I'm just taking issue with the fact that in he constantly finds a reason to I just don't see the connection.&quot; And he says to her: &quot;You She says, &quot;I'm not getting an education He said, &quot;No, ma'am, you've got this all wrong. For 18 years in your home and your We are now going to educate you.&quot; [ Background noise ] I dare the same professor to try the You see, nothing is accomplished by that. But what has really happened that we've got this whole mindset where if you living by quote, &quot;faith,&quot; and if you're automatically living by reason. It is interesting that the framers of the with this statement: &quot;We put our &quot;With our sacred honor&quot; - that's not a that your honor and your integrity are at stake and all the ideas with which I find it absolutely staggering. I've been invited repeatedly to China and back in China is asking people like and they will openly tell you that they know within American culture that has kept and ethically finding its norms, and how to build that ethical Fascinating that they see the need of But as I look and watch the changes What is the exit point, and writers in the way they are actually I've always believed that the Scottish in the 1800s, made the comment, &quot;Thus,&quot; he I don't care who writes its laws. It's the poets and the lyricists of the issue much more quickly And here's what one writer tongue in cheek, has to say about the West. He said, &quot;What do we believe? What is our creed? We believe in Marx, Freud, and Darwin. We believe everything is okay as long as you of hurt and to the best of We believe in sex before, We believe in the therapy of sin. We believe that adultery is fun. We believe that only taboos are taboo. We believe that everything is getting The evidence must be investigated, and We believe there's something in Jesus was a good man, just like He was a good moral teacher, although we think We believe that all religions are really the They all believe in love and goodness. They only differ on matters of creation, We believe that after death comes the nothing because when you ask the dead If death is not the end and if the dead have excepting perhaps Hitler, We believe in Masters and Johnson, what's average is normal, what's normal is good. We believe in total disarmament, we believe and bloodshed, Americans should and the Russian would be sure to follow. We believe that man is essentially good, This is the fault of society, conditions are the fault of society. We believe that each man must find and reality will adapt accordingly, the We believe that there is no absolute truth, excepting for the truth that We believe in the rejection of creeds And then he adds this post-script: Disaster is his rainbow in the sky, Sniper Kills Ten! Troops on Rampage! Whites go Looting! Bomb Blasts School! It is but the sound of man &quot;If chance be the Father of all flesh, And when you hear State of Emergency! Sniper Kills Ten! Troops on Rampage! Whites go Looting! Bomb Blasts School! It is but the sound of man Where do we get off with this? Where do we exit when we make to evict all religious thought and all which is really often what happens. Where do we get off? I'll tell you what happens. The definitions to which we cling will where to draw the lines of difference anymore. I give the illustration in the 1980s of Larry Georgia -- Atlanta's been and Larry Flint's pornography was who are discussing it would say it made Playboy The perversions and all that were going on in But the lawyer defending The clever ploy was basically something if they had gone to church, and if they'd ever on the jury because they'd be prejudiced. But once they got selected, he would quiz them Yes. Have you ever paid to Yes. Have you ever paid to to see the paintings of the Yes. Have you paid to do that and go in and see Yes. Would you explain now to this would you explain to this jury why you and you call my client's stuff pornography? So bring the witness up, You paid to go into an art of disrobed people, and you called it art. Explain to this jury why you call that art and And of course, you don't get into a But I thought to myself, you It's a loaded question, I can't minimize it, but a cup of coffee in hand and he asked &quot;Have you read the biography of Michelangelo?&quot; Michelangelo was beginning to do that and for his motive and being circumspect, and to him: &quot;Why are you doing this?&quot; Michelangelo said, &quot;Because I And he says, &quot;That's right, Tuck that in the back of C.S. Lewis and his book &quot;A Pilgrim's He calls it a Pilgrim's Regress rather with pantheism, with naturalism, all of that by one, this great mind, this great He said, until he came to have and he took a regressive journey In this book allegorically he talks of the time in the mountain called the Spirit of the Age, in the Spirit of the Age, in the humanistic framework almost like what somebody today the writer's recently released You unshackle yourself by some of your habits. And so what sort was Lewis And at one point the waiter brings unshackles him to give him his breakfast, and and the nourishing flavor of this milk. And the waiter smiles at him and he says &quot;You It's a secretion of a cow, isn't it? It secretes urine, it secretes milk. That's all it is is a secretion He nearly gags over that. And then he said &quot;I made the till the waiter reminded me what they were. And he said, &quot;I don't know what to do. The tray is taken from me, I'm of a sudden reason comes riding on a horse and of the Age, &quot;You lie because you don't know for nourishment and what You don't know the difference between and what nature has meant for refuse.&quot; You see, for the man or the of the camera whose body is being used of somebody who's buying into it, whose that no human being in this world would Where it's a feeling that is pursued, where A person sitting in front of the lens of that don't do this to me, for the person won't, because when secularization it'll produce a generation devoid of shame. That's the question we need to ask Are there issues in our lives that ought that ought to bring some sense of remorse? My daughter, Naomi, works with rescuing and she just a wee little thing when I see her going on these trips. She'll go into Amsterdam They know her there now, she'll go in and ask for just a few minutes, They're just being carted back and forth using them till they're in their 20s or late In Thailand, they're brought in from the a high percentage of them If a person doesn't know the difference of the human body for the then secularization has done its deadly work that if no transcendent moral ethic of what we are essentially meant to be, then and down and down, reminding me of &quot;I want to raise a generation of imperious, relentless and cruel.&quot; You know, I spoke at Angola It is a prison where 85% of them are on When you went into prison there years ago, You would see blood marks they tell me on and when you were checked in as a prisoner I'll tell you what happened in change -- that's not germane to what I want to when I walked into the room where every bone within your body is reacting, could you ever be the one And the chaplain was telling me he He can't stand the thought of it, because and the phone was it going to ring at the last He said &quot;The last one I saw for having raped and murdered his own daughter. And the wife was sitting behind glass He said, &quot;I just about broke down completely in that last second and just said, 'I'm of hope there, just a sliver of a ray of hope. The man just turned and said, okay, walks to the gallows saying, &quot;It's all okay. I don't believe in any of Think carefully, where do we want if there is no transcendent world there that if nothing like that is going to be tolerated in thought that is branded religious. Second is pluralization. Pluralization is where there's a competing and no one worldview is dominant. A competing number of worldviews available to Now, I want you to know, I think in which society ought to function. I am a privileged visitor to North America. When I was 20 years old, I never left home. I was a home guy, my older brother was 22, I was 20 and my father bought us both He said, &quot;go and find a job there, and find a university education and somehow We had $400 in our pocket, that's it. The government of India wouldn't allow So the first few days we are and Coke a day till we found a job somewhere. And I come into this world all of &quot;What a great privilege Canada has given me. I'm here as a guest. They don't owe me this.&quot; And at that time in Canada there were 500 I was one of the 500. Today when you go to Toronto, When I first came if you saw an Indian and have a kahana, chai -- If I did that in Toronto today completely change, completely changed. Pluralization, as somebody where on the side of the road there's a That's pluralization of cuisine. I think pluralization of cuisine is absolutely they had only one Indian restaurant, and When I went there, I said I and I told them you really should It's not Indian cuisine. Today some of the best Indian People ask me, &quot;Why do Indians die so young?&quot; I said, &quot;Because God's getting to prepare the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. When we get there the food Indian cuisine, one American and a sip and a chunk and a blow. The hot pepper just gets to you but my, what a foretaste of all the Burundi cuisine is fascinating. You know, when I was 26, I married Margi. She's from Canada. There were two other Indian guys and we used to meet once a month or whenever If you're from India, your wives are from So much has changed, and Take a look at the faculties around of Indian doctors and Indian engineers. It's a great thing to experience this. Pluralization is a marvelous thing in society, and parts of Europe for opening the doors to get of the world to come and enjoy the Here's what I want to say: If pluralization is then the exit point is deadly again. If secularization leads you to no point of as shameful, then pluralization lives with the There is no reason, there is no rationality, Once again, the musicians point this out to us. King Crimson, Cat's foot iron for more At paranoia's poison door. Twenty first century schizoid man. Blood rack barbed wire Polititians' with napalm fire Twenty first The wall on which the prophets wrote Is of death The sunlight brightly gleams As silence drowns the screams Between the iron And watered by the deeds of those Who know and When no one sets the rules The fate of fools Confusion will be my epitaph If we make it we can all sit back and laugh, G. K. Chesterton says the same thing in a and when I read that to you you'll find few Here's what he says -- listen carefully, against all more absolutes &quot;The new rebel is a skeptic and He has no loyalty, therefore he can never that he doubts anything gets in his For all denunciation implies and the modern revolutionist doubts but the doctrine by which he denounces it.&quot; So he writes one book complaining that imperial then he write another book, a novel He curses the Sultan because then curses Mrs. Grundy because they keep it. As a politician he cries out that war is that life itself is a waste of time. A Russian pessimist will denounce then prove by the highest that the peasant ought to have killed himself. A man denounces marriage as a lie, then denounces aristocratic He calls a flag a bubble, then blames because they take away that bubble. The man of this school goes first to that savages are treated as if they were beasts, on to a scientific meeting where he proves the modern revolutionists being an in undermining his own minds. In his book on politics he attacks men for he attacks morality for trampling on men. Therefore, the modern man in revolt has become By rebelling against everything. He's lost his right to rebel against anything. Pretty powerful stuff, pretty powerful language. I'll never forget -- I'll give then move to my final thought quickly here -- I was in California once doing a series and he was quite strident and And he says to me, &quot;I want this is an American gentleman talking I said, &quot;I won't speak on that.&quot; He said, &quot;I dare you to do it.&quot; He said, &quot;I dare you to do it. Because I have become one myself I'll bring my whole class in philosophy. If you speak on that subject, and they'll rip you to shreds afterwards.&quot; I thought that's supposed to be an enticing I said, &quot;No, I won't buy it.&quot; I said, &quot;I'll tell you what I will speak on why I am a to shreds after that we can do it.&quot; He said, &quot;Well, I don't like that, but They came. You could just tell which was the philosophy So at the end of my defense on talking and why that mutually exclusive truths cannot and why the claims of all of these worldviews, Buddhism is exclusive, Islam is -- they all in one direction, and it's reasonable that the question is whether it can be defended. So when I finished my talk on my he came up to the front and &quot;You have done the greatest damage to this in this, and that's because you really I said, &quot;All right, sir. Let me stop you right there. I'm not going to get into it with to impress your students; I'm we're going to lose truth along the way. I want to get to the truth.&quot; I said, &quot;Let's go out for a meal, And so he agreed. He said, &quot;Can I bring the I was sure at that point because he So the three of us went out. And we go out and this professor of his opening line was flawed, but He looked at me and he said, &quot;There he's dead wrong but I didn't stop him. And then he goes on to explain. &quot;There is this either/or kind of logic, the It is a Western way of thinking.&quot; I said, &quot;No, it's not.&quot; He said, &quot;Yes, it is.&quot; I said, &quot;No, it's not.&quot; He said, &quot;Yes, it is.&quot; I said, &quot;No, it's not.&quot; He said, &quot;Yes, it is.&quot; I said, &quot;All right. Move on.&quot; He said, &quot;Then we move It is not either this or The thesis spawning its antithesis, What Marx used in his dialectical materialism. He said Eastern philosophy uses it in its so for them it is not either this It's an Eastern way of thinking.&quot; I said, &quot;No, it isn't.&quot; He said, &quot;Yes, it is.&quot; I said, &quot;No, it's not.&quot; He said, &quot;Yes, it is.&quot; He said, &quot;what do you mean, not it's not?&quot; I said, &quot;Keep going.&quot; So he finished. I said, &quot;Are you finished?&quot; He said, &quot;Yes.&quot; I said, &quot;So you told me the either/or, the law of noncontradiction The both/and, the dialectical way of and what you have told me is that the that moves a dialectical way is You told me that if I understand the fact that you can accept contradictory with these kinds of thinking. I should understand their logic first and So you have to take contradiction I said, &quot;That's what you're saying?&quot; He said, &quot;Yes.&quot; He had taken all the placemats In the Western we have thinking either/or, and I'm really doing injustice because I should be content with contradiction. I said, &quot;Sir, I just have one question for you. You're telling me when I study this worldview, I either used the both/and system I either used the both/and logic He had only just started doing it. And he put his knife and fork down, and &quot;The either/or does seem to emerge, doesn't it?&quot; And the professor of psychology I said, &quot;I want to tell you something, sir. Even in India, we look both It is either the bus or me, not both of us.&quot; [ Background noise ] I said, &quot;You don't understand, If Gautama Buddha believed in the both/and, and walked away from Hinduism and Why couldn't you take both/and? Why did Shankara write his dissertation of the Vedic literature and so on. You see, ladies and gentlemen, It ultimately will stab you Winston Churchill said the most It is so valuable that often it Andrei Sakharov, correction, Natan Sharansky, went back to Israel to the former place where He took his wife, and as he went back to the he said, &quot;Could you stand I want to go in alone.&quot; He said, &quot;Because I sat there dark in that dungeon, where And Sharansky went there and wept and wept, But as he came out, he asked if he the physicist who gave Russia the atomic bomb. And the media followed him, and he went and laid and said, &quot;The reason I have done this He said, &quot;I always thought the most I have changed my mind. The most powerful weapon Does America want the truth? With pluralization, which is a with an absolutizing of relativism? Think about it. And finally, privatization, where you're forced to keep to the private That's where America is headed, and this is the deadliest of Because that which is sacred to you in It ought to be a serious thing. I have learned to live with disagreement, I have learned to give people all the floor and debating, but I've walked and saying, truth will win out in the end. we have the right to disagree, but we I'll tell you what I've noticed and I'll close with an illustration of here. It is this: The cancer of our meaninglessness, meaninglessness. You talk to an average young person today, how many sexual trysts do they How much money in the bank do they The loneliest people in the world I have found, have been the most indulgent As Chesterton said, &quot;Meaninglessness meaninglessness comes from being wary of pain; meaninglessness comes from &quot;Meaninglessness does not meaninglessness comes from Skeptics often tell me that is the problem of May I suggest to you, it that keeps me from being totally secular. Been there, done that, tried this. It simply doesn't work. I recall when I was doing a Bible when they were playing the St. Louis Cardinals, and I walked in there and I closed with this. I said to them, &quot;You know, fellas, and being the only one who fails the physical.&quot; I said, &quot;I looked at you boys, muscles bulging I'll never forget the line of my wife She smiled, hugged me back and said, &quot;you know [ Background noise ] I burst out laughing. And she said, &quot;I didn't mean that in a bad way. I didn't mean, that,&quot; oh, what a complement. What a complement. I said, &quot;I'll do my best to make So I said, &quot;Guys, I can't You guys hit a ball long so I'm not going to talk to you about that. Here's what I'm going to talk to you because I've probably lived that longer They leaned forward and started to listen. One of the most notable players from one of up towards me and he puts his hand on the back on my shoulder and starts to knowing it was a very precious moment, And he looked at me and he said, &quot;Ravi, I but I want to tell you I've lost I wished I'd applied the principles Are we on the highway to without principle, pleasure without boundaries? Think about it. Think about it. You can't have everything, can't. Meaninglessness, is the plague of an average I could find better ways to make living This is a conviction, and I will tell you I've and turned away from complete hedonistic paths with the revelation of God himself. Secularization is a good entry point. No, we do not want a theocratic culture. We do not want a state religion. That would be even worse. But secularization that does not allow on the Academy is going to end up Pluralization, if it doesn't understand will end up ultimately living in It'll weigh down, it'll implode under And finally, privatization where you sever the to believe all the sacred things in private you end up with a totally desacrilized society. In the words of Albert Camus, &quot;The loneliest that what you thought will deliver the So I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, if if we're going to be respectful of each others, We can have a theonomous culture, a A theonomous culture where we may in our hearts that we all think the same way. There is no culture around like that. India is the closest thing to it, that because it'll come close We don't want a theonomous culture. we haven't had it in history to see Heteronomous culture is that which a handful Islamic states are heteronomous cultures. Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, They enforce the belief from In Marxism in China, Russia, the to the masses what they must believe. Theonomous, we don't see it visible, so you've got an autonomous culture, where we pride in our individuality. If that is true, then we must be and I must be respected for my belief, too. In the word of God, in my commitment to If we are truly going to be Let's not tell people we have an autonomous in God, switch to a heteronomous technique of their own conscience but compel Theonomous, heteronomous, autonomous, and and in the marketplace, in the and if that happens, America That is my talk for you tonight. God bless you, thank you. [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; Thank you very much. I now encourage you to text your questions. This is the way that we're And to start, we have the question: to engage peers without being dogmatic? &gt;&gt; Ravi Zacharias: Since that's This is Nabeel Qureshi, by the way. I think you'll really enjoy listening to him because I told you he's a medical doctor in biblical studies at Duke and took another into his doctoral program of studies, into doctoral work in his He will also be sharing the Q&amp;A. I think it is very important to engage in as something that is truly but it must be justified, not just asserted. Why do I lay claim to what I For example, if somebody asked me, why my answer is very simple to them, because there meaning, morality and destiny, and when I test I can find answers, Biblical answers on origin, to reality as I can test it out, and they provide a coherent worldview. So is that a dogmatic belief? Yes, it is believed in the sense with grace undergirded by kindness and If truth is not undergirded by love, it and the dogma he possesses becomes repulsive. So you must hold onto it with but it must also be defended at the don't be afraid of laying claim to truth, and the counterperspective has a and at that point you have to That's how dialogue actually goes. It's interaction of logic. It's two different views coming together, Let me give you -- can I take a minute on because I think this is fascinating When I spoke at the Islamic prior to my coming there the great and really attacked the Christian any one of you has ever read anything by Deedat He lived in Durbin, South Africa, And he truly offended the Christians in A professor a geology there, the and he said, &quot;I have a question for you. Why do you attack what I believe in and So Deedat says, &quot;Come up here to the front. Come up here right now.&quot; So Professor Lee, who's a professor in Malaysia, walks up to the front. Professor Lee himself told me this story. He said, &quot;I walk up to the front Come up closer and stare me in the eye.&quot; And Lee did. He took his right hand and gave him And this is a gently built man, Professor Lee. He said, &quot;My face was burning And he said, &quot;As I gathered my composure, Turn the other cheek. That's your faith.'&quot; Lee said, I said, 'God, give me strength.' and I turned the other side of the face and so he said, 'All right, I'll Give me your shirt.'&quot; So He says, &quot;You're supposed to So he turned to the audience, he said, &quot;My but my faith in Christ is real and It's not fake.&quot; He unbelted his trousers, standing there turns around and walks back into his office. Professor Lee told me there was a lineup my own Islamic students wanting to have on bended knee asking me for forgiveness You can present dogmatic truth with love Sometimes it'll be in kind, It must always be with a gracious spirit, because the truth unbeautified becomes Okay, thank you. [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; The next question is: of today effectively impact our &gt;&gt; Do you want to take that? &gt;&gt; Nabeel Qureshi: Yes. Thank you so much. It's an honor to be here. I really resonate with this question. I feel like I'm a perpetual student, I've finished studying at -- as was just said, as well, so a long time in the university. And one thing that I found out is when people hear what you have to say, don't really care what you have to Opinions are cheap nowadays. Opinions come -- as many as there What they really want to and they don't really want to just hear that. They want to see that. And once you embody what you actually to come out more openly, more visibly. When I was in medical school, one of the things and I still believe today Life is valuable at all phases. And one way that I expressed it was in A woman had come in and she had come and they were about to do an examination on her. They were about to do something which Now, she did not know she was pregnant. She had no idea she was pregnant. I asked her if she took any kind of she didn't because her boyfriend So this was the understanding with Now, when I asked her to just double-check. When the surgeon comes in to ask you if you want with him, you actually do this And she asked me, why, what would happen? And it was at that moment that that there could very well be a life inside her, and that life inside her would on the decision she made at this moment. And it is in that kind of a and telling her how valuable life is that I'm And in that circumstance, when there's real and real power in that moment, then when you whereas if you stand on the street corner that you care, it's not going to work. Now, don't get me wrong, I understand street on a street corner and yelling to people who what you want to say to them, the message you but unless they know that you It's not going to work. So whenever I engage in any kind I want to know what their I want to know what they're I ask them what's going on in their life And once you do that, in the that what your beliefs are actually do matter. Thanks. [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; Okay, our next question. How do we profitably discuss such as abortion, marriage and sexual norms? &gt;&gt; Ravi Zacharias: Abortion, how do we profitably discuss it? &gt;&gt; Mm-hm. &gt;&gt; Ravi Zacharias: You know, it's In some parts of the world, these are things because it will be offensive in certain We're fortunately, in the sense in which we can talk about these things. My own view is this to the questioner. Thank you for asking this, because I think these within our culture, so much pain to and so here's what I say oftentimes I say, look, we will differ in applicational we will differ in matters of choices down to one question to each of That's what I am interested in. That's the key, because some years ago I on the subject, what does it mean to be human? Francis Collins and I were representing and all other scholars from And when I began to prepare for my talk, it dawned on me how critical On the basis of how you answered the all of your other extensions Your application in sexuality, your application in relationships -- all of these of what you believe it means to be human. For example, if you were to take an automobile you can't blame the maker of the automobile The automobile maker will say, &quot;That's If you cannot take an instrument and use and therefore and try to think you can how can we really define sexuality, marriage, values if we don't know the That to me is where we need to be Is life sacred? Is life at its core of intrinsic worth Let me give you a vivid example of this. When I finished a series of talks at Oxford, and one young Oxonian came up to the front He said to me, &quot;of all the the one thing I really take He said, I don't agree with you I said, &quot;If you don't talk about an absolute, I don't even understand, everything is He said, &quot;I don't believe there are absolutes.&quot; I said, &quot;All right, let me And there were students standing I said, &quot;I take a one-year-old baby in your where I'm standing and take and chop this baby up for my pleasure. Would you believe I have done something bad? Something evil? Could you not?&quot; He paused, he went like this with his shoe, toe, Mr. Zacharias, I wouldn't like what you did, but I cannot honestly tell you And all of his classmates You see, when you start from the premise that of essential value, you veer off into the What is it in the 10 Commandments that Your body is sacred, your life is sacred, your your word is sacred, your time is You don't violate that. So if you ask me how we talk on these things, We have to start with the foundation and a when I was being driven there by your lecture, And the man driving me said, &quot;That's I said, &quot;What's a post-modern building?&quot; He said, &quot;It has no purpose. There are really no designs. There are stairways that go nowhere, there he said, &quot;and the architect said why should our buildings have any purpose?&quot; He said &quot;What do you think?&quot; I said, &quot;I have one question for that architect. Did he do that for the foundation as well?&quot; City Hall would never give you the permission the foundation has to have a purpose, you have to start from the foundation, what does it mean to be human, On those two edifices you build otherwise you have got your feet firmly Okay. [ Background noise ] &gt;&gt; Okay, these are two related How do you explain the tragedies caused like the Crusades, and was Manifest of Native Americans done graciously? &gt;&gt; Nabeel Qureshi: I'll take part of that. The first part of the question was how do we &gt;&gt; Yeah, by the proliferation Well, part of what my story is I was raised very, very devout My family taught me to believe My mother was actually the She was born in Indonesia, because her father spent his whole That's how devout our Islamic And so part of growing up for me was And so when I met Christianity, I had been but to respond against Christianity. That was part of my identity. Being from a foreign upbringing in the West, we wanted to galvanize ourselves My parents had seen what America was like. They had heard things before coming here, and that America is a promiscuous nation. They see things on television, they see adultery and then they think, America is a Christian therefore this must be Christianity. And so when they're raising up me and my sister, they want to make sure we were ANd so that was part of what I was. Coming up was just naturally and beliefs of Christianity. Now, one thing that I noticed when I was being that struck me tremendously as a Muslim that God himself was willing to lower himself of men and then die for their sake. Now, I just stopped and I This is the Gospel message. This is the center, this is the crux who deserves everything, who deserves that God doesn't lord it over people. He's not a tyrant that demands that we jump when we die and hopefully You know, in Islam, the soteriology, we There's an idea of blessings and of with your blessings in order to get into heaven. At the end of the day, you have to have more And so for me growing up, the idea was simple. If I sinned, I needed to do more I should have sinned, but if I run just kind of counteract your sin and That's how I was raised. But constantly what I was thinking Did I do the fast right? Did I accidentally swallow some When you're fasting you're not Did I accidentally swallow some water when I was I broke my fast, and I'm Have I committed some tragic mistake. When I was introduced to this idea because here's what it is: God knows God knows that you have sinned against him. I don't need to convince All I have to do is ask someone, do you believe to your own standards -- Have you lived up to your own standards? And everyone I've asked that And here's the beauty of the Christian And He doesn't just love you in and I accept you for who you are. God loves you so much that That is the message of Christianity. What did Christ do? He gives this message of the Good He talks about a Jew and a Samaritan. These were two polar opposites in their with the other; one did not care for upheld in the story the ideals to sacrifice himself for the sake of his enemy. And not just did Jesus share that story, he then lived it out for his Christian for our sakes, even when we were His enemies. Understand this for just one moment. The Christian theology is teaching us that who is due all glory and all fame and all to two children themselves, the ignominy of being illegitimate child. Why? Why? And as He grows up as an He's working with His hands as a Why? Why does He choose this? What was his lineage? His lineage was one that had prostitutes in it. His lineage was one that had idolators in it. Why? As he goes and as he suffers at the people that he had poured his They all betrayed him. What is Jesus teaching? He didn't have to do any of this, by the way. According to Christian theology, He could have come as a Prince, He could have come and lorded Why? Jesus is showing that he empathizes with that people would look at us and spit And he willingly takes it upon himself and That is the Christian message. Jesus tells us as he's dying on the he says to us, through what He says: &quot;As I do for you, as I have That is the true Christian message, and other than that message, it's There is no suffering that can be There's no tragedy, no crime, no genocide that says, &quot;Die for your enemies. Be willing to die for them.&quot; This is the most peaceful message there is. This is the most self-sacrificial That's the message of the gospel. So when people hijack, when people hijack in that name, don't confuse the And what we're standing here for We're not here to excuse the actions Yes, there are Christians throughout and if I'm the first one to apologize that this was done in the name of my God. But that is not the message of my God. We are to lay down ourselves for the and when it comes to tolerance, that is I think the most ultimate not only do you hear what your enemy has to to say, not only do you hear You actually come alongside them and after for their sake. That is the most tolerant message that there could possibly be, [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; Ravi Zacharias: Is there &gt;&gt; Nabeel Qureshi: I don't know. I don't remember what it was. &gt;&gt; Ravi Zacharias: Was there a significant &gt;&gt; Would you like me to repeat the question? &gt;&gt; Ravi Zacharias: Sure. &gt;&gt; How do you explain the tragedies caused like the Crusades, and was Manifest of Native Americans, done graciously? &gt;&gt; Ravi Zacharias: Okay. I think when you move to the the question is implicitly answered there. Let me -- because it's been so beautifully let me just present two counterpoints The first point is this: Whenever notice what is implicit in the question. Two things are implicit in the question, Human life has worth. How does naturalism give you that worth? Where does it come from? You cannot give intrinsic There has to be that transcendent so the question actually posits an assumption Let me give you a little illustration of this. I'm writing a book right now with my colleague and I was watching a BBC production. It's a beautiful, beautiful And I was just watching it so beautifully out of hibernation and has to feed its cubs. It gets onto the ice, but It's taking longer to get to its prey. It comes to a pack of walruses. It sets its eyes on the weakest of them, but the other walruses come up to defend. A fight ensues, the polar bear doesn't win it The polar bear turns around and walks away. And the last scene is the polar It's not going to make it. And the BBC commentator, who had done a why did it take so long for the Because of global warming. And so we go on this big talk. Let's assume everything he said is right. What is he implying? He didn't for a moment question why this at a tiny little walrus who when if its own little cubs were But that's not a moral question. It's truly in that predatorial animalistic to make up the good of all why did he lay moral responsibility It was a human being. We cannot seem to escape the fact we have something that transcends We have a moral consciousness, so the give implicit worth to humanity, secondly, neither of which can come So it has to come from a transcendent framework. Number two, never, ever judge Never, ever judge a philosophy by its abuse. Take the integral claims of the philosophy, If you abuse that philosophy and that up really judging something That's why Winston Churchill said democracy for all other forms of government, and what he but if freedom is abused, then you end So A, it assumes essential worth, neither of which come from naturalism. C, you do not judge a philosophy by its abuse. That's why state religions have committed so through theology and the same and used its power to dictate The true belief of the Christian comes from the Jesus never forced his belief on anyone. We live in a day where we can learn from and you know what, those of us who see we should do everything in our power to take to bring healing and restoration, because it is of us, and we see each other What we could probably do is take one more Yeah? &gt;&gt; And for our last question, between the need for shame and intolerance? Isn't a system of shame inherently intolerant? &gt;&gt; Nabeel Qureshi: How do &gt;&gt; The need for shame and intolerance? Isn't it a system of shame [ Background noise ] &gt;&gt; Ravi: Is the idea of shame intolerant? Is that what... &gt;&gt; Isn't it a system of shame &gt;&gt; Ravi: That's a great question, And the reason I say it is because I was as a constant motivator to perform more. When I was not doing well in my school and than getting any intellectual prowess of I'd get the worst kinds of thrashings. And the line he used on me one day which &quot;You are going to bring shame to this family.&quot; And I think what we often do is and that's really not what about this sense of shame as a warning. C.S. Lewis in his book &quot;The He said shame is like a hot drink. You can steadily drink it but you do anything else Shame is a personal corrector within your heart not for society to hurl its insults on you. They are two completely different things. But look at it this way. Psychiatrists are talking about with post-traumatic stress disorder. I know we've got veterans here and When I was in my mid 20s, I went to Vietnam. I was not prepared to see what I saw. I was a youngster, I was a student of Many, many times after that for of the sights I saw on the side of the road. It traumatized me. The first night I came to Singapore, the for four months going all the and seeing all that was going on. I was a single young man. I'll never forget walking for one or two hours that head and just let the memories of it out And those of you who have fought I just met a young man here who we need to pray for them, because the Here is the point. So doctors are dealing with this, One of the fears of finding a medication to help that comes, what if a rapist or a murderer and buys a pill and pops it the morning of feeling of wrong or shame whatsoever? What then happens to our society? So the same thing that benefits in a in an illegitimate situation and doing violence for violence's sake. What I therefore boil it down to is where lines have been crossed that are wrong, and me that what happened there was not right, that which was illegitimate to what's becoming a monster So I'm really not talking about a I'm talking about the personal When culture imposes it wrongly, We don't work that methodology of good, which is for goodness' sake. One more comment, and my closing statement here. Oscar Wilde- I wrote a series of and one of them is the one that yet at the same time delved into quite a bit, the Lamb and the Fuhrer, Jesus Talks to the New Birth or Rebirth, and the one and Sensuality: Jesus Talks to Oscar Wilde. It is interesting, this quintessential hedonist, who may have autobiographically which is a brilliantly written book -- I visited the place and visited the And ironically it's the same place That's why in my book I have Pasquale, But here it is. He's lying on his bed, and he and he asks him this question: Did you ever When I was reading that, I said, &quot;Wow, for an expression of a definition of love? Where you're loving somebody He says, &quot;Robbie, did you love any Robbie says, &quot;No.&quot; He said, &quot;Neither did I. Neither did I. Bring me a priest,&quot; he said, and &quot;The Ballad of Reading Gaol,&quot; it's one of the about the woman with the Alibaster ointment who and he said, &quot;So am I like that, for only blood can cleanse And he went on to talk about only the sacrifice. The price was not big enough to of that tormented soul with which he was living. And so I say to you, as you see the nature at the closing moments of life you want to Did I love that boy for his own sake? No. Bring me a priest. Only Christ is big enough now. I want to tell you and I'm if I'd come here in my teens and 20s I would Those of you who are students here, and all you are privileged to be in one of the which basically tells me you You're the brightest of the bright, who will never reach your level What a privilege you have to be in a country University means to find unity and diversity. You will never find unity and from the sacred definition We will have our differences. I just challenge you, be Those of you who disagree with us, you I don't desire to do that. I want to live and let live, but all I please give it the platform to and let the truth win out in the end. If you stifle a worldview just because you Truth will ultimately triumph. And I close with this illustration. Some of you have heard me give it. When I was in the Middle East trying to and the Palestinian forces, who was invited by the Archbishop of Canterbury. And we weathered the worst of them and all were part of the meeting. I blocked out of the Yasir Arafat meeting because I really felt he'd have all the for publicity, and my guess was right. That was the only one which I told the I think this is going to be used rather than legitimately given a platform, On the last day we were in Ramallah who was one of the four founders of Hamas. His wife put on a great lunch, invited and men who had been in prison He himself I think had served 18 years. Great mood, the room is now full of cigarette because I'm really allergic to But we're going through the whole thing, and at of your men to ask him one question.&quot; Just one. I won't tell you what I but I didn't like his answer, and when I &quot;Sheikh, you and I will probably I was sitting pretty close to him -- I said, &quot;I want to just say one thing I said, &quot;Five thousand years ago a man you and up a mountain to offer his son in sacrifice. Remember that story?&quot; He said, &quot;Yes.&quot; I said, &quot;Please, let's not debate which son He said, &quot;Yes.&quot; I said, &quot;He takes His son up and as a test to somehow gain God's approval there, God stops his arm, keeps him from going through. Remember that story?&quot; He said, &quot;Yes.&quot; I said, &quot;What did God say?&quot; I said, &quot;God said, Stop, I myself will provide.&quot; He said, &quot;That's right.&quot; I said, &quot;Here in Ramallah Two thousand years ago God kept that Sheikh, at that time the ax did not stop. Son of God, spade, for you and for me. And what I want to leave with you is this, that God has provided for us, we'll be offering of this world for power, for land, Until you and I receive that son, that's And He'd offered some of his sons. The pin drop silence of the room. And the Archbishop says, &quot;I I figured I'd blown it. So walking away, the Archbishop puts his That was of God.&quot; And I said, &quot;Boy, I sure hope so.&quot; And we're going down the steps and the Sheikh is ushering him, little did to come running over to me. He comes running over just as He twirls me around -- big guy. I've got two metal rods in my back. I figured, Ramallah, a grave waits for me now. He twirled me around, he looked at me and and he kissed me, and he said, I hope you and I see each other again someday.&quot; And he gave me a big bear hug Two different worldviews, two different the Christ in the heart that and take away the sword, take away the hate. It spoke to him and his eyes and I could just see how Tolerance, we will hopefully live where in our disagreement we can still embrace I respect your right to life peaceably within who will judge each of us, and I live my life from Him, and for that, I want to That's my prayer. Dartmouth, all the best to you. May your greatest days be ahead. Thank you for hosting us. Thank you.