Can you beat Neon Mixtape Tour Welcome to disco city!.. i don't have any neon mixtape tour has a DISGUSTING amount of wait a minute- BRANDON BLAST? THEY ADDED ME TO THE GAME GUYS! FLASHBANG! I remember this okay dave is just making up words i'm feeding the rhythm, I'm FEEDING THE RHYTHM.... you freaky ass- day 1 started off how any other world would begin, w- what is happening neon mixtape tour, funnily enough, particular music tracks to affect my favourite track is when "thick of it" starts but the music tracks seem to be doing the level with "tree-shooter" and CAUTION USER DAVE dancing zombie- you mean they'll jam their ...dancing zombie vibing bauble, over here, seems to and it looks like he's stepped in a bit of gum- the pink ball does area damage to even kill these "where's waldo" ass zombies- but then all of a sudden this rockstar-ass zombie this is what i meant by &quot;oh i love this song! I They aren't the worst zombies lawn, so we once again made our way I GOT A REAL 'CACTUS FEELING' ABOUT THIS PENNY!... what does that even mean- Indeed , Cactus has changed over do you guys not think i already know this, we've literally had to phone cactus ...works for me! day 3 thankfully was way easier than it looked, with cactus consistently and with cactus being able to shoot through i mean look how many zombies they send but we carried on anyway with...why...is im not complaining but like...did we went into day 4 with the kick all of my plants into the neighbours garden- so i realised that cactus may actually be they just did a whole conveyer even with cactus, the zombies were so with the help of chomper we were able day 5...if you've stuck around for day 19...i think you know what's about to go down- the level starts off "nice sunflowers down along with these zombies but i have faith in these guys, i well this is going to be fun- this level isn't the most difficult, as long you can just chomper spam everywhere if the zombie whos got a rock in his shoe whilst chomper spamming does work, funnily to place enough of them to deal with the i feel like i genuinely struggled less in the dark but after being careful to not fill my plant lanes we conquered day 5 and unlocked...bert and ernie- day 6...SKIP- day 7, there seems to be a theme with these beet because the very first wave spawned these so i have deploy this ancient tactic to get but just in that moment- um...hello- this uh..i dont even know what you are- GIRL ZOMBIE, GIRL ZOMBIE- the girl zombie has these fancy roller environmental air pollution causing the but once defeated they are freed and to breathe? like i know they're use their lungs? What if they don't or do they become zombie zombie... anyway i deployed nightcap and killed everything- due to the number of zombies deciding to tag peashooters and basically everything but even with using out stupidly expensive MILLION SUN... well it's a bit less than that- and with zombies spawning in all the HELL out of our sunflowers in the first so with you guys now filled in on oh for fu- day 8 deployed the first zombie as they just sends out one guy...as if hes testing but the first dude came out, and we sneakily follow in order to farm as much sun and as everything else began to and if you wanna call this method &quot;cheating&quot;, or &quot;oh Brando, you're just lets play a minigame here's your loadout...this Now please tell me what to use, if you said peashooter, im look at the state of this man, what plant is heads but also fast enough to kill these chain kill multiple zombies that are clumped put your damn hand down- day 9, make 2 thousand sun...using well at least I KNOW they wh- but how am i supposed to- oh you got to be taking the piss- good thing i've got a peashooter here to shoot his gumballs at the zombies! ive already argued why i'm allowed to me in other parts of this challenge, IM NOT i'm using all the help i can get because, you're just taking the mickey mouse thankfully at the start of the level, the rockstar dudes actually help in sending the and with deploying my lawnmower in the of zombies because i now remember this is and with the final wave showing up, we let the mowers take charge hmm- green... day 10 was another conveyer level where theyre and day 11 appeared to be another conveyor...? okay, either you TELL ME I HAVE TO SURVIVE WITH mario save screen ass alerts because you cant I'm not gonna beat this OBVIOUSLY- so we moved on to day 12...well what the dumb is that- and who invited dj dickhead- We used our "nightcap sun farm" strategy again, and unfortunately for you mr. Kurt CoBRAIN, so in day 13, it was PEASHOOTER TIME- and we obviously used citron... we took out everything with HOW MANY LEVELS DO I HAVE TO WHY HAVE YOU GIVEN ME SUNSHROOM- the game clearly wants me to lose this level by dark ages anymore which means i'm gonna have to so sacrificing our first mower we got and making sure we use plant food and funnily enough we made through take that sun-shroom...you knob- day 15, protect these marbles, and they're actually strong enough to take out the nightcap sun strat, you ain't getting what the- dave, penny where have somebody passed me a note in homeroom, Penny! it says to meet behind the bike racks dave, im telling you this as a friend, do only funderful surprise happening starts with a now the party is over!...what I'M SCARED PENNY! ITS TWO MINUTES TO day 16- i dont think so- day 17, oh...who are you- wait no- st- stop doing that- why did you do that- whose children are these- the breakdancer zombie, well, breakdances, down the lawn rather than his dark ages but it didn't matter because we unlocked day 18- oh, it's already over- day 19, what in the blue beetle shit are you- day 20...remind me WHY we needed 32 levels again? w- huh? is that a microphone- PENNY! PENNY! PEHHHH A microphone! karaoke time! At least my What does that even mean dave? acting HOLY CRAP- day 21...don't let the zombies trample on the i dont wanna go on a long tangent like a did you remember our super awesome nightcap sun world? and how NORMALLY we'd let the first zombie well whaddya know, that's not happening anymore- and you're probably thinking, so sunflowers won't be THAT big of a problem, Huh. I think my very first attempt of my feelings towards this level... where the frick is he going- whilst this level is MAYBE POSSIBLY TECHNICALLY on my 24th attempt by pause buffering every i managed to kill EVERYTHING except this Is it MY fault that i suck at this game? Maybe, later just so i can beat this stupid level and which one of you said yes- look guys i beat him this time spore shrooms have a- i don't care- HEY- WAH-ZOO!..what did you just do- day 22..you look like an angry umbrella- day 23... what da hell, pant berus bombie in da pant berse bombie TWO? HELL NAH HOW DEY GET DA SUPA MARIO PANT BERSE FUN FACT! Did you know arcade machines can't PEASHOOTER TIME YIPPEE- with my knowledge of a single nightcap not being able to kill a gargantuar from day 21- so to conquer day 24 we used cactus CITY they were later pummelled by a 7 foot day 25- YAWN- say penny, do you think intensive this game is so broken dude- in day 26, i was slightly worried but luckily the rockstar gentlemen and after "nightcapping" all oh...i LOVE yOu- day twenty- no. Who the hell is that guy?... WHY ARE YOU ALL IN LOVE WITH HIM- i dont even know what to call these guys...kyle Kyle plays this very seductive music causing i would like to tell you what this nightcap isn't affected by his day 29- day 30, never have more than- ...this world really does suck day thirty one- oh my god dude WHAT IS THIS i might as well play pvz3 at this rate- oh nevermind, they took it down What can I use here? nothing...nothing- but with day 31 down we finally guys look! he's saying rick Can we beat zomboss? well by the looks of so we TOOK down zomboss...and and he dropped the key to Jurassic marsh.... but that will once again have there was neon mixtape tour beaten this world really sucked- subscribe RIGHT NOW if you've and i'll see you next time- BYE!-