Hello, welcome to our channel, please stay with us until the end, your partnership is important to us! Please give us encouragement with your comments and support us. Raise the umbrella and say thank you God thank you come inside it's cold come inside you will get wet my son let's have breakfast yesterday I took my son to the barber shop he stayed calm while the barber cut his hair When your hair grows , I will take you to the barber shop again, the buns will be hot, I will cut my hair . Why do I sometimes take the goats with that? Bring it, my son . Do n't , my son . where is it These are yours. Yesterday I forgot to buy you crayons. When I went to town, I bought you crayons to color these . What is this? This is sick, this is healthy. Come, help us tile the wall. I won't come. Why? what happened again I will help whenever you register the car in my name, didn't I take my turn? In a few days, it's our turn to go and transfer it to your name. Come to wash the dishes, bring the stone with you, my son, don't go out, it's cold, Armin, don't break the umbrella , why don't you go inside? Don't take the child, my son, thank God, because of the rain, where is the level? Armin, go away, I'm tired. Are you tired ? Yes , take the baby's slippers. Please support us with likes and comments. How did the car crash ? Call the emergency room, do you know the number? What is the emergency number? Wait, if the tea is ready, bring it, how are you, Armin? where have you been I came for money, do you want money from us? You took the check, at least give me some money. You didn't want to work. I said I won't work. You took the check from me. Give me some money. Why should I pay you? am i with you I kept quiet so that everyone would be rude. I should have dealt with it earlier. Give me some of Armin's money. Then I will return it. Why should I give you some of Armin's money? I am his mother, I did not use them myself, nor did I allow his father to use them, why should I give them to you? If I hadn't been silent, you wouldn't have spoken so rudely, warm yourself up and leave, because you will be beaten, talk about money again, I will meet you, warm yourself up and go out without saying a word, you will not repeat this again . Get away from Armin's money because I will never let you use it, I won't even let his father use it . Do I have treasure?? What do I want to do with the money, I will return it later, the money that Allah gave you? If I had a bad intention of taking the money, I wouldn't have let you take the check. I have nothing to do with the check. The responsibility of the check rests with Nimat and Nasib. I take care of my child's money . But then it didn't matter to me, now I won't let you take Armin's money, I won't let you touch them, now go back and go find a job and work as a worker, don't come here for money anymore, all the problems that Soraya and the rest have caused It is enough to exist I always come for money, what does that mean?? Why should I pay you? When should I bring money? It doesn't matter if it causes problems every day, why don't you go to work yourself? The work is hard, go find another job , it needs money, go to work, now I feel sorry for you that you came in this rainy weather, if you come again, I will beat you, Armin, go inside, you will catch a cold, Armin, it is not about you, it is because of himself that he did not catch a cold. I tell him to go inside, you are heartless, if you are sad for Armin, don't come for his money, I won't let anyone touch them, go work, why don't you work? What more value do you have than others that you don't work? You made him spoiled, I wanted to help him, he expected me , did I hurt the check? If I hadn't come to bring the check myself, you would have definitely done something else Give me some money, you got the check, what are you talking about, go inside, don't get worse than him, go inside, it's cold, I'm not going, go inside, what are you thinking about now? Give me some money. Get out of here. I always come for money. Don't go out in the rain when you give me money. I want to go home. You must prepare money for me. Where is my money? Give me Armin's money, the money is Armin's, why should I give it to you? I will return it. Leave here so that I don't beat you. If you come again, I know what to do with you. Where is your proof? _He went, he went, let's go inside, Hojjat's behavior, now you understand his behavior, it's enough, don't go on, bring a concrete, and I'll leave it here, what should I bring? Concretely, what do you want to do with the money that is here? Ask yourself this question, if I didn't want to count them, I have to decide why you - why you have to decide? Wait my son, you always made the decision, now let me decide what decision? What do you decide? What's the point if you don't listen? If you put them in the bank, how much profit will they get? How is its profit? Are you thinking of going to the bank, bring the glue - don't make me angry, I will behave as you say, come here, tell me, let me see what you decide? Why is the child in the rain? Take him, take the child, Armin, go inside , take the child, turn on the electricity, turn off the heater, why don't you bring tea? Armin, what are you doing? Take this for Buddy, Buddy ? the wind Please make us happy with likes and comments. Open the door when you sleep, bring a cloth. Thank you for your support and support... Please support us with likes and comments.