Dacia is going bigger with the Dacia Bigster. This one is basically a larger Dacia, the bigger They are now SUV segment where like VW Tiguan, Honda CR-V, which Toyota RAV4 and so on. So a core segment where they haven't been there before, and they promise a ratio and best-in-class But is that all true, and can this vehicle here succeed? We're going to find Autogefuhl in 4K, full Let's go with the all-new or first-ever Dacia Bigster. In the front here, this light strip leads over to this just, you know, this is like a reflection area, the And you see the silver contrast here The blue color here is also new, and it's called Indigo Blue. Very beautiful color. A Thomas Blue car would be a little bit that's why I also Indigo here with Then, towards the length is 4 meters, and that's about 23 inches longer than That's why this here attacking a completely new segment. Then wheels from And these here, the ones you see, are the biggest This is also interesting. Here, this, you know, can see this is like this, And a little bit from the sparkle, this is called Starkle with ST. And this is a material that is highly relying on That's also a scheme They try to be more sustainable by using more Then you can see a big off-roadish-like stance. There will also be an Soon, more details Also, standard roof So, a very likeable you know, angular, This is also why the Duster has been so successful. Because back in were buying Dacia But now, with the Duster, on, people also go for hey, I just like the design and that's why I go for it. And the same they also with the Bigster and Towards the rear, also, sparkle element, well, with these dots the material, so this, very off-roadish, rugged look, cool design detail. Also here, the turning they replaced the That looks pretty likeable here in the front, doesn't it? Just in the rear, the let's say, a little bit that large. I mean, we've seen vehicles, yes, but the front indicators. Let's head to the interior. Door closing. Turning sounds first. Actually quite solid. Here, integration of Very nice sound here when closing the door, indeed. Then inside of the doors, all the way hard plastic This is just here like Microcloud material, underneath or In the vents here, This actually feels quite nice. Then the steering wheel is also animal-free material. It feels really good. It's like a soft, nice leatherette. And the seats, different You get the fabric journey trim, and then And here, this is the This is like a leatherette style, which feels neoprene-like. This is also there. It's also in the Extreme wipe things clean, and so on, or maybe when you spill some ice cream and so on. Then let's get inside. See here, with still some space left And, yeah, it's a cozy The seat gives away a little bit. Let's take it that way. So you feel here and is built in like a, yeah, a light vehicle. That's the thing. You know, when you and so on, the vehicle it because usually in the vehicle, it You know what I mean? Steering wheel, up Yeah, the process bit better maybe, but well adjustable, definitely. And yeah, we already of that, that indeed, of space. And first time we see soon I'll also open that Sun blinds here. Not extendable. Yeah, but honestly, one of these in the too good either. So yeah, but the kind of similar like you get some more And this is the Interesting here. Got this structured And then glove box here. Oh, it's not dampened at all. That is, yeah. It's a surprise. Yeah. They are going to Then middle console, there available in three So I would suppose Then here, integration lever if you have the manual. Then here, cup holders. You can also put that out. Then you have like just a larger box in there. Then this one here, more space underneath this armrest. Interesting. It goes a little bit more forward. You standard have touchscreen right So this is standard something different, Once again, these And one of my favorite things. Ah. It's a high-quality clicking sound climate unit. That's cool. So I really appreciate to have that in the front. You can also get but that doesn't So this will probably overheat. Then rather charge with the, here with the USB-C chargers. For the phone, you use Apple CarPlay, Android Auto. And the base infotainment comes like this, 10-inch. But then as the base, internal GPS, which you Everyone uses the GPS from the phone most of the time. And then you have this You can just click in your phone here, that you also You can also put it And this is here also part of this You-Clip system of this. You-Clip system. Yeah. Oh, there we go. That's live on Autogefuhl So here, this is this And you find these clips. On this here, also on this, here on the passenger Also in the rear. And then you can apply different accessories. It's a very clever system here. Yeah. Only that sometimes when you deinstall Yeah. And then the also have a car But yeah, as I said, that's not really necessary. Driver POV. Once again, here, nice steering wheel, good material. And also clicking the rear buttons at That's what I appreciate. Then digital in 7-inch or these So they are in the And they supply with all the information you need. Actually, you can also stuff and also switch like that. And then here, the system, always in Here for example, seat heating when And you have a for example, of some Yeah. Yeah. And then you have So yeah, looks Most of the time, you or Android Auto There we go. And then I think it's fine. The climate will also But as I said, you rule And there we go. This is the CarPlay integration. So that looks quite cool and also takes up most And the basic functions Inside of the doors here, all the way hard plastic. Yeah. This is where the cost savings also come into place. Then the rear bench, ISOFIX at the outside each. And this middle part here, I can actually fold down. And then I have these cup holders here, two And at the same time, it's also like reaching through. So it's a ski hatch This is also another cost-saving So doing it two in one. It's open as soon as you put this one here down. Seats themselves. They're actually, You can sit here So here there is Headroom works So yeah, you can sit with tall adults on the outside seats. And inside here, So yes, indeed, this vehicle can house five tall adults. So the interior space that is being offered is And this panoramic enjoy then even more It is the very first. This is the very first panoramic roof at Dacia. And it is also, well, very first one you can actually also open. There we go. So there we are. I mean, also from the ceiling, this is all, quality. That's the case. So somewhere the But here, the opening is also actually pretty wide. By the way, You-Clip system will be available. You've seen maybe in our Dacia Duster reviews here. These are these clips. You can add some or a torch or something chargers are there to look. And let's directly take a look inside here with the trunk. There is an electric either in high And this is also one here of the vehicle, And here, this cover the thing, I mean, yeah, premium top covers here. Let's take it that way. So this here is 670 liters. And then the width is And the length here, substantial, is 1 meters And the height here in the trunk, 73 centimeters Then you have So there is actually here and reasonable There we go. You can take this out here completely as well. And then you have this second split right here. You can put up like that. I could also imagine spare tire could fit And then we can Yeah, this is playing Tetris here a little bit. Then fold the seats here. Practical. This is a very good release. So that folds not entirely flat, but relatively. And then the length here to the front seats is about Under the hood, more displacement Here, this is the hybrid so a little bit more the Dacia. This is a four-cylinder system, 155 horsepower, 1.2 kilowatt hours And then there's also turbo petrol, 1.2 And that one then is turbo petrol, but also engine. And that battery engine is also the base for So you can also find or video description or want to follow all these engine specs then later on. And this is here the a different color here The extreme trim looks a little bit different, but not too much. Here in this case also, accentuations there caps, for example. And these here are It's not the biggest. It's 19-inch, but a with 18-inch that it's also. Here under the hood, we also have the 4x4 But tell me in the dark blue or rather I think the copper cool here also, for logo. So this is then signalizing here this Extreme trim level. But overall, of course, are not too different And here we see the extreme trim on the interior. So once again, some more copper color accentuations. And here once again, But here is also the parts, where the journey stuff. And this here, for example, a cup holder of this So you can use the You-Clips you For example, in here, this is like a back hanger, And then you can remove this one and put in a So this would be possible. By the way. Here also in the Extreme rubber floor mats, so that. It's like a topography So for the off-road also see the six-speed And when you have this have different off-road can put in. And you can also see the different middle console here. This like the lower cup in the other one, we one. Pricing starts just That is really astonishing. For a car of that size, actually. And the hybrid will start at around 30,000 euros. So there the price is only 2,000 euros, the price difference But if you could take the competition model, way cheaper. And the question is, where does that price come from? Exterior? I think not. Looks great. Interior, we see, of course, the cost savings We can also explain the price. And you also have to usually has lower So that's a good thing. The main reason for NCAP system, for example, assistance systems. When you don't have equipment, they But also the hardware little bit lower than Then this question is you if you drive it also higher speed on the So tell me in the about it and also about And now compare it or also to some other