Welcome friends to another edition of Economic dimensions of our lives. And I'm your host about unionization at Trader Joe's, about the about the extraordinary profits being raked and an advertising campaign by Big Pharma that we will have a wonderful interview, in the fragility of global U.S power and what is So let me begin. Hadley, Massachusetts is a small it's right next door to Amherst, Massachusetts, University of Massachusetts, where I spent many when I learned that the Trader Joe's located right was experiencing an effort by the 80 they voted, and it was officiated by the National vote of 45 to 31 - that is all but four workers it's not affiliated - at least not yet - with and it's called Trader Joe's United. It is not engaged in a unionizing effort. There's at and another one in Boulder, Colorado. And that I should have been mentioning Canada effort going on. It may be going on with Trader with Starbucks because they have organized several Why is this important beyond yet more of the efforts to unionize American workplaces? and Trader Joe's spend a lot of time, energy and being friendly to working people, having as these unionization efforts got off the ground That alongside whatever they do that's positive And one of the things most stark is the hiring to buy off workers by giving them benefits that might even say, people not to be for the union. management of these companies (I really don't care that the logic of capitalism makes even the nicest And that's why the system is the problem, My next update has to do with the lottery. lottery tickets drawn for the July 29th drawing of lottery tickets normally sold. What's going on? caught between the inflation and the fact enough just to keep up with rising prices, Desperate people make desperate gambles. Buying is a desperate gamble. Lotteries exist now in 45 and in the U.S Virgin Islands. Out of buy here's what happens to the money: 90 cents 75 cents goes to the jackpot winner, What are the odds that you are a Folks it means that your chances of winning the hit by lightning or being bitten by a shark. It's a way of getting tax payments out of the people in the state who would have revolted to doing that in most states. So here's what the out of every two dollar ticket goes to the state only the odds were 300 million of the people who buy a lottery ticket are for every two dollar ticket. As if that weren't here is what we know: the richer you are the Lottery tickets are a way of squeezing money out Other people, rich people Extraordinary, not only that you're taking money who would otherwise have used it to buy something but they don't have that money, they buy the is given to a person who's now super rich. And they don't spend most of their money. it isn't creating jobs. Because it it's the demand for output that capitalists merely from average people and make one person rich the job creation. Lotteries are a crappy way No wonder rich people make a joke: to shift the burden of taxes off of us and My next update is a simple report to you. to give you the numbers. The three biggest oil and Shell, you all know the names. The largest in the second quarter of 2022 - that's they earned four times what they earned the year Why am I telling you this? Because from the second we have had a horrible inflation that has hurt But not ExxonMobil, whose profits quadrupled. tons of money because we're paying more dreamed we would. Please notice it's not to bring the gasoline to us, to get the oil The costs haven't gone anywhere but the price has everyone knows that it was the sanctions and that the United States demanded that the oil and gas. Which disrupted the global as Russia shifted to other parts of the world, to jack up their prices. Whatever you think about are applauding so that their hands are raw. Because the sanctions on Russia have been one that anyone can remember. And if you don't think of the oil companies and the policy chosen by the Last update: the big pharmaceutical companies are possibility that the Biden administration might the Federal Government buy in bulk pharmaceuticals they can bring the price way down, because Much easier for the companies to fill that kind and sells at a much lower price so all save money. Kind of important, They don't want that to happen. by suggesting that if you do that they will hurt because the government buys it. And, by the way, that exactly. That's why Americans go to Canada drug they could get here, but to pay much less do here as a gift to the pharmaceuticals. you and I, let them they will be as happy running We've come to the end of the first part of today's everyone that Economic Update is produced non-profit media organization celebrating 10 years Harvey's podcast show Anti-Capitalist Chronicles You can find it, along with other shows, democracyatwork.info. You can also follow us join our growing community of invaluable with us, we'll be right back with an important Welcome back friends to the second half of today's honored to have before our cameras and microphones the Chief Editor of LeftWord Books and the Research. He is a senior fellow at Chongyang University of China, the author of over 20 books, entitled 'The Withdrawal: Iraq, Libya, WOLFF: So first of all Vijay, PRASHAD: It's a great pleasure and honor to WOLFF: Good. All right, let's the United States', shall we call them, in Iraq, Libya, and Afghanistan, as you are we, in your judgment, living at a time when in the U.S empire? And by that I mean something at talk about the decline of the British or the Roman do you understand the broader implications PRASHAD: There's two things to say about You know, I've been both a historian, I've for most of my career been a journalist, a let's call them, sacrifice zones of U.S and so on, most recently in the Sahel Region When you look at the world from the standpoint bombs fall from the skies, it's difficult for has decreased.' You see if you are sitting, in a country like Niger where the United States Agadez, just south of Arlit, which is the world's remember Niger and yellow cake uranium during the war against the Iraqi people... well, if you are a build this enormous drone base at the heart of a drone base which has been built with barely Congressional oversight. And I'll tell you why I Because when a couple of U.S soldiers were of Foreign Services Committee in the Senate said troops in Niger? You built the world's largest of a Nigerian; from the standpoint of an Afghan; I don't think they are experiencing a depletion of that power has to be gauged along multiple axes, the ground and the bomb is falling on your head. extraordinary military, an extraordinary ability power unparalleled. Including to threaten Without a doubt there has been a decline in talking about there's been a decline. And how do of merely, you know, looking at, say, GDP growth. economy, it's about forecasting the future of found in the last 10 or so years that in very many high-speed rail, whether it's telecommunications leapfrogged in many spheres over U.S and European capitalism which has come to rely on collecting particularly telecommunications. There when the United States decides that rather grounds. You're threatened by Huawei? Make better rather than compete on strictly, you know, military force, diplomatic force and so on to In that sense I feel that there has been that the world merely repeats old stories; that to the British is going to happen to the United in a different phase. We need to look the present past but not be too analogical in our approach. is a depletion of economic power in particular. for economic power. And that is an extraordinary WOLFF: Would you go so far as to say roughly primacy, political primacy coming for so much of particularly post-World And in their place not only is the military and more important in the mentality precisely because the other forms of power PRASHAD: Well certainly Rick, I would say decline. Or rather, as I would like to of fragile state. Cultural primacy is complicated. of cultural power, both institutional and there is an incredible way in which the United to dominate the news cycle, the media having like Reuters, the Associated Press, Agence networks like CNN, Fox News and so on. They're and trounce their competitors for a couple of was for western companies or western governments say ideally - the commons, like YouTube, how easy global commons) to indicate when a Cuban official on their Twitter handle. Or to say that RT, for of course, western entities... similar entities the disparagement that this is a state-backed maintain a kind of hegemonic position. But this which people trust western news outlets much more there's a kind of patina of objectivity despite know that Fox News is essentially a bundle of credibility, a kind of credibility that perhaps, I think that is an enormous advantage the United You can't win hearts and minds merely through for people cheap phones. If you live in Africa than to buy an Apple phone. So practical realities high-mindedness. You might want to buy an Look at the case how this cultural hegemony eager to speak to African countries, you know, are 55 governments in Africa, 55 countries when Mr the African Union. Out of 55 heads of government in places like Africa, South America, in Southern kind of, you know, the orders of Washington And this is where this cultural hegemony, fraying at the edges. People are not willing to WOLFF: Do you think that the aggressive coupled now with the clearly provocative a fragile power reaction? In the desperate effort to reverse everything PRASHAD: You know, when you look at the world map, span that runs from, you know, the edge of China if not Britain (although Britain, increasingly part of the United States so, you know, there's has over the course of the last 20 years or and greater density. So just take two examples. but as a consequence of U.S sanctions on Iran, as Libya, the Europeans have had to rely more and Germany. As you know, about 35% of it's energy energy integration taking place between Europe been an integration of the Chinese economy with and Road initiative. Poland, not for ideological and Road initiative, Italy joins the Belt and integration of Eurasia taking place. The United when faced with this. What does one do? Does one Asia including Russia in this new configuration? but then Trump and now Biden have tried to either have they done that? Putting pressure on European was the first salvo. You remember 'don't use to Asia, to militarize this entity called the Quad my opinion the squeeze on both Russia and China to deal with this historical integration. WOLFF: Vijay I wish we could go on. But this has how someone with the focus you bring sees And to my audience as always I look forward