There's nothing normal when you come to do a television interview. It's not a relaxed environment to be in. Everything about it is and you become hyper-aware You have enormous lights, like the side of a fridge And then to have someone just ignore the camera. Often I find being interviewed I become inarticulate. And, I'm now doing exactly what I'm trying to think of an answer. In an interview things You're asked questions Woe betide you say something Television is always great There's something mean The moment sadly, there's a schadenfreude we smell it's gonna be a car crash. [Narrator] In 1995, of the biggest risks any public figure can ever take. Your Royal highness how prepared were you for the pressures that came with marrying into the royal family? At the age of 19, you always think you're As I watched it, I was is an extraordinary piece of television and practically every [Narrator] This no holds barred interview forever shattered the of the world's most famous women. It was like a bomb had been set off in the middle of the royal family. [Narrator] Yet for decades, the inside story of the Martin Bashir has cloaked in this incredible drama. It was like something [Narrator] Now it's time to investigative journalists, and those closest to Diana to discover why the Princess chose to give this extraordinary interview. There was that feeling that she believed she was being watched by MI5 and she might ultimately be targeted. We'll ask if Diana was more in control than anyone suspected. The Princess told me that how to answer the questions. [Narrator] And discover how not only Diana's own life, but the culture of Britain itself. You are finally seeing a modern woman of the 20th century [Narrator] As well as Press attention went stratospheric. It was just snowballed you kind of got the feeling [Narrator] The Princess had to a West London gym. She seemed in jaunty mood over her interview, a storm which has created in her than usual. I think she is a foolish girl to do it because she doesn't need to. She came across as a sad confused, very confused. I'd like to be a Queen of people's hearts in people's hearts. But I don't see myself I saw the Princess a year And she said to me, I should never have said Queen of hearts. I didn't mean that, I don't think she's clearly what the consequences that she said would be. I don't think that's true. I think she was absolutely She came into the royal family as this weak little gorgeous but she grew. And she came out the And I think Panorama was This was a very calculated to put her side of the story out. Clever Diana. Do you think The explosion of Panorama was the result of frustrations in Diana for more than a decade. To understand how the fuse we have to return to one of her very first [Narrator] At three o'clock Prince Charles and Lady Diana appeared for And this was the first chance to see the ring of sapphires and diamonds. At the time, Diana's as the beginning of her star casting as a fairy tale Princess. I don't know what you thought of me. Pretty amazing. [Charles laughs loudly] [Narrator] Seen through however, this familiar footage takes on a very different light. [Interviewer] Diana's father as he said, thought she'd make a very good housewife. [Charles laughs loudly] We've yet to see. [Interviewer] Good level I'm Bidisha and I am a When I see early interviews with Diana, I see an intelligent with her role and also struggling against the shear smirking contempt of many of the interviewers. I'm amazed that she's been [Interviewer] And I suppose in love. Of course. Forever in love. Whatever in love means If you're a woman watching that you're like red I am Dicky Arbiter former now, royal commentator. I think for the Prince of Wales, it was a bit embarrassing to say, yes, I am in love. So you can't fault the man given that they're not brought No, it turned out he was with someone else. [Narrator] By the with Camilla Parker Throughout the decade however, television documentaries, such as those hosted by Alistair Burnett kept alive the fantasy of a fairytale couple. Yes four hands, two princes and a piano. It's a photo session at Kensington Palace, with the prince and Princess My name is Richard Kay, and for many years, I was of the mail. During the crucial period I wrote about her a great deal, and in time we became friends. It sort of showed quite at that time was like. It was on all four knees It was kind of reminiscent of something you might've [Interviewer] What do What is your contribution? I feel my role is supporting my husband, whenever I can and always and also most important thing [Narrator] The Burnett documentaries may have looked dated, but they offered a of the nuclear family that was still popular when John It is time to return to time to get back to basics, to accepting responsibility and not shuffling- I think John Major saw which was conservative with I think the perennial for Britain is one of deep comfort. It's the idea of a little which is not negative. So it's like Postman Pat, basically it's a little village and the nuclear family but the flip side of the perfect marriage is the marriage that doesn't work out, the single mother, the divorcee. The scarlet woman. In the 90s it still carried a lot of stigma and it still carried the [Narrator] For Diana, the of a dutiful wife was And in June 1992, she made her There are now just 24 hours which claims to expose goes on sale. By working with writer, Andrew Diana kept secret her own involvement in this expose of her marital misery yet with suspicions of running high, the palace remained furious. The Queen's belief is that you shouldn't show public emotion because you are the monarchy. You should be above that. Far from freeing Diana, the her chains. She expected the Andrew It didn't because the royal [Narrator] From 1992, Diana lived alone at Kensington palace With all media engagements by the palace, she seemed trapped in a royal by her husband that gave her an idea for how to break the deadlock. Well, I think the main motivator for her doing the Panorama interview was Charles' interview the previous year. Diana had been quite It is, of course, remembered [Narrator] Did you try to to your wife when you took Yes, absolutely. [Interviewer] And you were? Yes, until it became irretrievably broken down. There was something about had come out of the Dimbleby interview, that there was a sort of a frankness about that interview that And she began wondering and talking about whether she should [Narrator] After over a on camera Diana's frustrations and after the Morton book had backfired, she now realised only the immediacy of television could set her free. This was part of a war. The Panorama interview into the establishment. My name is Paul Burrell to Diana Princess of Wales. Right. I remember the Princess &quot;to go and pick up somebody at White City, &quot;it's a secret. &quot;We don't want anybody to know about it&quot;. I do remember going in my and he lie on the backseat of the car, and I covered him with a blanket. No one knew that Martin Bashir was visiting Diana Princess of Wales. And it was to be kept that way. He was like a small child at Kensington palace. For him, it was so exciting. I thought the Princess at that time had very few friends and she'd now got herself Someone that would give her media advice. I didn't think that that into a major interview. [Narrator] By the mid 90s, Diana was an outsider After the Andrew Morton biography, her every move was fearful she might once again, brief against the future king, yet by the summer of 1995, a small crack had formed of the royal press machine designed to keep her from scandal. I'm Richard Ayre and I was the BBC's controller I would have regular meetings I think it must have been we had a routine meeting, ran through some programme and he got to the door of my office, I remember, and he turned at the door and he said, &quot;Oh, by the way, &quot;while I'm here, I should And he told me at that Panorama reporter, thought he had a chance that he might be able to I suppose if you could have most likely to get a scoop on a world scale like this, Martin might've been the last person you would have thought of. But more important than that, I'm just about to share in and here it comes now. Right Leonard thank you very much. Martin Bashir was a small fish in a big pond at the BBC. He had done correspondent roles with songs of praise but at this time. I don't know what he was I don't think I, and I don't possibly even Martin, I don't know, ever really that she would agree to be interviewed. Part of that is because she was always being particularly by well-known to give an interview. I used to get countless She had lunch with Clive James frequently, David Frost frequently, was the Queen bee at the time. And she also put it in a bid. I would have loved an And I suppose in the hopes that that might come about I said, &quot;Ma'am, if you ever &quot;of this on camera, I'm [Narrator] Diana may already she wanted to do some kind but how did Martin Bashir beat his far more famous rivals to the prize of the world's most I'm Chris Blackhurst. I was a journalist and on the Independent. very soon after the interview appeared the story about the story really took off. There was no shortage of of what Martin Bashir had achieved, not least his own colleagues. We were in touch with fellow and this information reached us, reached me, that things might [Narrator] According to Bashir had initially met to discuss ideas for a its theme, state surveillance Earl Spencer was suspicious and so the feeling was to get him or watch him And as Martin Bashir got was able to fuel this suspicion. And he realised as he got further in that he was getting closer and closer to a fantastic prize, which with Princess Diana. [Narrator] As discussions developed, Bashir appears to have made a bold claim. Martin Bashir was telling a source within MI5, who was telling him that the and being followed, et cetera, et cetera. I do remember pulling up the floor boards, looking for devices. I unscrewed telephones. The Princess always felt that She always felt that she [Diana] You'll never know how much. [Charles] Oh, I will darling. [Narrator] The Sun Newspaper [Narrator] Just three years earlier, the Sun had disclosed the A supposed phone and her close friend James Gilby. The tape recording was by one of our security services [Narrator] The home Secretary repeatedly rebutted allegations MI5 were involved. No one has produced the of evidence to support the repeated claim MI5 or any part of the favour of it. Did Martin play on those quite possibly, frankly, it wasn't something that would [Narrator] Things got murkier it came to light that of fake documents. The question was why? He went to a graphic artist and they concocted a bank statement, The NatWest bank, an account in Brighton, apparently belonging to Alan Waller Charles Spencer's former head of security. [Narrator] The statement showed a payment from a mysterious offshore company. Suspicions were raised that Bashir may have in order to fuel the Princess in turn, leading to Diana, It was felt that Bashir was the security services, they are paying Alan about you and your sister. [Narrator] After the interview, the BBC launched an investigation. In the end, they didn't deny the It wasn't denied at all. They said they were satisfied that they hadn't actually Hadn't been shown to Diana, and hadn't secured the interview with her. [Narrator] With denials, from Bashir and Diana herself apparently confirming she hadn't seen the fake As for the BBC's explanation as to why the documents had been created, not everyone was convinced. I'm afraid, a lot of us at that point, why would Why would you go to the trouble of fabricating a bank statement? It was just quite a heavy [Narrator] Many, however, of Bashir's approach that in securing the interview. The Diana I knew wanted She was gonna do it, whether she'd been shown Secrecy was the key. Martin was not prepared to go down the general to secure a royal interview. I think the Princess believed through the front door through the established to seek an interview that request for interview [Narrator] Approaches from that went through the filter of the official palace press Of course, Martin was a And that was his biggest asset. He hadn't gone through of going through the He wasn't a celebrity. There was only one and that was Diana. So it was important that if she was going to do an interview, and then with Panorama, it was with [Narrator] After weeks of Bashir's negotiations finally paid off. Things came together suddenly very rapidly at the end of October, which led me to make the that I made of all our discussions. Steve Hewlett had one of his reporters, that's Bashir, came to see me about a project we've discussed on and off for several months. The outcome of that meeting was that we should proceed full speed ahead. &quot;Sorry to be so delphic,&quot; I [Narrator] The cryptic nature of this triumphant memo spoke to the biggest problem now facing the BBC, how to keep the world's most As I understood it from that if news of the the palace would find [Narrator] In October 1995, the BBC was on the verge of securing one of the biggest scoops in its history. An extended interview with Princess Diana, yet she had insisted on It must not become known and what she said was not that she would not give the interview, but that if news of it leaked, she was sure that the to stop the interview. We operated on, it's really corny to say, a need to know basis. In the first few weeks, it was literally Martin Steve Hewlett, and Tony and then me. By early November, it was plus of course John Burt. John Burt was the BBC's director-general and lots of people didn't like the way he'd modernised the BBC, and was difficult to work for. Nonetheless, he was a [Narrator] Burt quickly gave his backing to the interview. Yet sitting above Burt in the BBC hierarchy was someone unlikely to be quite so approving. The chairman of the BBC governors was Marmaduke Hussey, a pillar of the establishment. [Narrator] Appointed by for many embodied a backward-looking of the BBC. This had created tensions with his arch moderniser [Interviewer] Yep, speed My name is Richard Eyre and I was for nine years a governor of the BBC. And it was on a Christmas party just after I joined the BBC, the figure of Marmaduke Hussey, a sort of mammoth man who had He came up to me he said, &quot;Sit down, sit down over here.&quot; And we sat down on him And he said to me, tell me, I said, yes, I do know John. He said &quot;strange fellow, he not doesn't speak to And he said, &quot;would you see if you could manage to get John to speak to me?&quot; So, I called John the next &quot;I won't speak to him. There's no point, there's just no point.&quot; So that was what I [Narrator] Yet, when it it wasn't just the political differences between Hussey and Burt More critically Hussey was the husband of lady Susan Hussey, who was the Queen's senior lady of the bed-chamber lady and she is still there today. He would have felt duty bound to his wife, he would have felt to inform the palace that The day that John Burt finally agreed that the interview could go ahead, he took two decisions. One to allow the interview, the other, not to tell his chairman. It soured relations which were not good anyway. It soured them irrevocably. This was a moment of real a seminal point in the a statement of its independence. Here was the most demonstrable way in which the BBC could say that the public should have [Narrator] The date finally chosen for the interview was the anniversary of the the location? Kensington Palace, right under the nose of some You've got to remember also of the royal family living there too. The Gloucester's and the I remember well, the Sunday, &quot;Paul, you haven't had &quot;Why don't you go home &quot;and play with your children?&quot; I thought odd, odd that [Narrator] To get past palace security, the small BBC crew devised a cover story. As I understand it, they were introduced by the Mechanics, technicians they're going to fit up a new stereo system for me.&quot; perfectly plausible, if you [Narrator] To guarantee secrecy, the crew that entered of just three people, the cameraman, Tony Poole, and Martin Bashir. Tony was left to set up his equipment, leaving Bashir and before filming began. People wonder, had she She obviously hadn't rehearsed Bashir doesn't tell her [Narrator] Others however, Actually, it had been rehearsed. I know, from a later conversation, the Princess told me that [Narrator] Internal documents released by the BBC state that the in advance of the broad but not the questions. They knew exactly what and how the Princess would answer them. And Princess Diana was coached by Martin how to answer the questions. He helped her through the [Narrator] The cameraman of the drawing-room and used soft lighting to set the scene for an intimate domestic confession. At around 9:00 p.m. Bashir and Diana finally on carefully positioned chairs. The cameraman, Tony Poole, hit record. She wasn't bad actually in but she wasn't a natural [Narrator] Over the 90 minutes of filming the cameraman recalled that, at one key question James Hewitt, The Princess became flustered. [Bashir] Did your relationship go beyond a close friendship? Yes, it did, yes. [Bashir] Were you unfaithful? She would have been extremely nervous. She knew she'd have to [Narrator] And after some deliberation, Diana arrived on a clever answer. Yes, I adored him. Yes I was in love with him. The Panorama team were all waiting for that phone call. I guess I'd expected and the phone call didn't come, and the hours passed, and they passed. I think it's fair to say It must've been close to midnight when [phone rings] it was Steve Hewlett. He said, they're out, and they've made the backup copy. So that was a moment of [gently chiming bells] The next morning I arrived I walked through the that's odd, that chair and the settee's been moved because I could see where in the carpet. I said to the Princess, &quot;why has all the furniture been &quot;I had Jenny for an exercise class, &quot;we pushed all the furniture &quot;Really?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; &quot;You doubt me?&quot; I said, &quot;No, no reason to.&quot; [Narrator] With filming now to carry out the edit in in central London, yet Panorama editor, Steve Hewlett soon raised concerns. He said, &quot;I think we've got to move, got to move, &quot;got to find somewhere else.&quot; And I said, &quot;Why?&quot; And he said &quot;It doesn't feel good to me. &quot;I think we're being watched. &quot;I think the building's being watched.&quot; So I said, &quot;Where do you want to go?&quot; And he said, &quot;Leave it to &quot;I'll find somewhere.&quot; I got a call saying there was an editing job in Eastbourne, but they couldn't tell And I'd find out when I arrived. And in fact, I was told not even to tell my wife where I was going. I went to the Grand Hotel where The next day, Mike, the and handed me a pile of tapes and said, we have this for you to edit. So I put it in a tape and there was Princess [Bashir] Your Royal Highness, for the pressures that came with marrying into the royal family? At the age of 19, you always think you're To have her in front it was just amazing. I'm a great believer that you should always confuse the enemy. I mean, there was obviously no way I could possibly have imagined and be so honest, in a about the marriage. [Bashir] According to press so difficult that you actually Is that true? When no one listens to you or you feel no one's listening to you, all And it was just a catalogue and that obviously had of her a long time, which she or perhaps dig the knife in, at it really, but I think I I thought it was rather sad because I didn't think it I don't think she would feel any better at the end of the day. But we knew it was going to be dynamite. [Narrator] A few days for a first viewing with BBC executives. We had a two-hour journey on None of us going to see this film for the first time had We didn't know whether she had been frank or whether she'd burst into tears. We didn't know whether she'd We knew nothing about the content and it was quite important I think in retrospect that we because our reaction was quite likely to forecast the audience's reaction. There was no small talk. We were there to see the movie and they pressed the play button. During viewings I sit slightly sideways to see how they react to I don't think anybody spoke at all throughout that 60 minutes. But there were occasional They just couldn't believe what they were seeing on screen, it was just, you know, nothing like nothing before whatsoever. I just wanted to run this clip past you. [Narrator] Do you think the Prince of Wales will ever be King? I don't think any of us And obviously, it's a question but who knows, who knows Who knows what circumstances will provoke? [Narrator] The idea that the line of succession might skip that this interview could It was clearly going to for the royal family for the future king. So of course, that was a Of course it was. [Narrator] Minutes from through the Freedom of that there was very All the same, there has on what might have been cut. There was one answer, which it was felt to be slightly And I think it was well known. They probably hadn't I think she just felt maybe that she needed. The Queen mother was in the country and taking sort of a slight dig didn't to be doing at that time. I don't sit here with resentment, I sit here with sadness 'cause [Narrator] The BBC has never of the interview, including Diana's comments Yet even with this content the interview remained explosive. [Bashir] Your Royal highness, thank you. She was good, wasn't she? I haven't seen that for a long time. When the interview was over go across the road and We didn't say a word until we're on the promenade leaning on the railings. I think I spoke first and I said, &quot;This programme is going &quot;of the BBC or the end of the &quot;And there's absolutely no doubt, &quot;that we have to broadcast it.&quot; Once the programme was ready, it was clearly important to 'cause eventually everything leaks. We had, right at the beginning, we had agreed that the to be the person who broke [Narrator] Diana delivered the Queen's private secretary. She said, &quot;Robert, I want you to know I've done alarm bells must've rang But you know, he very generously said, &quot;Oh, is it something to Her response was, &quot;No, it was Panorama.&quot; All the phones started ringing, my mates all sort of calling me saying the other royal reporters like, &quot;Oh, what's in it, what's in it?&quot; I didn't know what was in it. I had no idea. Royal press photographer Mark Saunders was on the ground as leading up to the broadcast. It was a mad, mad week. First of all, the world's [loud chatter] It was the biggest amount of International Press Corps [loud chatter] [Narrator] With the wait and down the country, brace There'd been such a five or six days. I mean, every day there were headlines. So the public interest had been whipped up to fever pitch really. So 23 million people were going to tune in and watch her give her side of the story. She was nervous, anxious but clearly being reassured all the time by Martin Bashir that and that the film would that she wanted. I can only imagine that she was pent up with anticipation, probably anxiety. You remember at the time people I mean, it was a massive event. And yet you can't control So it's like the entire is hanging in the balance. And it always boils down to either you believe [upbeat music] Tonight on Panorama the Princess of Wales. [Narrator] At Buckingham Palace, the press office team watched in horror. I was with my colleagues We were all gobsmacked about what was coming out, There's a lot of colourful language. I would have never been it comes to colourful language. [Bashir] Do you really believe that a campaign was Yes I did, absolutely. [Bashir] Why? I was a separated wife I was a problem full stop. Never happened before. What do we do with her? I was kind of outraged because she was making accusations that just simply were not true. She was pointing a finger at the Prince of Wales as stopping her doing things. I couldn't believe that with every aspect of Right down to her adultery and her love for Hewitt and [Bashir] What evidence did you have that their even though you were married? A woman's instinct is a very good one. It was splash after splash, after splash. As I watched it, I was absolutely aware that this is an extraordinary piece of television and practically every Your Royal Highness, thank you. [upbeat music] [Narrator] At the BBC to celebrate their triumph. After the programme was finished, we opened at least one And so my recollection to put it mildly. After the Diana interview, there's an immediate reaction point. Newsnight, quite rightly, are devoting their entire programme to the sensational interview. Nicholas Soames you're a good presumably he was sitting What do you think you'll have made of it? Well, I have no idea and I certainly couldn't possibly speak for the Prince of Wales. But for my own part, as I found some of it to be That actually makes my skin crawl even now because the immediate reaction from so many establishment commentators was totally mediaeval. It really is the sort of [Interviewer] So she's made I simply have no idea, but it seems to me like the If you want to trash a woman say she's mad. It's a really powerful allegation, and there's no way of because if you sit there and go, &quot;No, I'm not mad at all, I'm not mad,&quot; you look like you're mad. I have no doubt that to Nicholas Soames's I bet she is really mad and paranoid. And so that's just my excuse to hate her even more that's unchanged since antiquity. Most of the coverage centred especially her admission of adultery, and then moved to the Diana was annoyed that because I don't think she had foreseen that that was going to for the tabloids. She had wanted a much more rounded response to the interview. The press was almost I got the feeling when talking to her that she was wondering I remember the Princess saying to me, &quot;What'd you think the Queen will say?&quot; &quot;She would see the fallout from this.&quot; I had lunch with the Queen not long after. And she said to me unprompted, &quot;How are things at the BBC?&quot; And I said, &quot;Oh, well fine.&quot; She said, &quot;Frightful thing &quot;that my daughter-in-law did.&quot; The marriage problems of Charles and Diana have cast a shadow over the Royal family. Now the Queen has decided to a head by advising them to divorce. [Narrator] In the interview, Diana had been clear that she [Bashir] Would it be your wish to divorce? No it's not my wish. [Bashir] Why, wouldn't Why would it resolve matters? Her greatest fear was that her boys would She said &quot;They're going &quot;they're going to try and There was a letter from and Diana saying enough is enough, get onto your lawyers and That was the price she paid [Narrator] Piece by piece the fairy tale fantasy that Many in both the establishment and the media had punished her for revealing a more complex reality. What, above all, we have a right to expect of royalty is a degree of [upbeat music] [Narrator] But on the streets, another story was unfolding. I suppose she'll get quite She does come across as if she's been done wrong by the Prince. She needed to do something. She needed to put her side of the story for us to hear. And I think it's right that she's done it. It's the public reaction to Panorama because it's not the newspapers, The Columnists, The Wednesday Witches, and all those people about her in the daily It was the public and the public loved it. I think everything has a lot to do with what Diana said about I was unwell with postnatal depression, which no one ever discusses You have to read about it afterwards. She did wear her heart on her sleeve. You couldn't really imagine anyone else in the royal family using the kind of language Diana used in Panorama. you'd wake up in the morning, feeling, you didn't want to get out of bed. You felt misunderstood. The risk of talking about mental health It was very easy to get labels attached and for Diana to talk so about postnatal depression It meant that women all over the country and the world were looking around and actually being able to but to a mother. Friends on my husband's side again, unstable, sick, and should be put in a home of some sort I was almost an embarrassment. [Narrator] In just a Diana received some 6,000 letters of support from women Diana told me afterwards, after Panorama, she had people coming up to her in the street saying, &quot;Oh, thank goodness &quot;Your unhappy marriage &quot;Now I'm going to do the same.&quot; And I think she had given to speak up if they were unhappy. [crowd cheers loudly] [Narrator] Diana's interview tapped into a shifting public appetite for greater emotional openness. It was an attitude that would of the man poised to She was the flagship for the change that was coming with Tony Blair. It was only natural they They were going their separate ways today as the Prince of Wales the Princess drove in. So the marriage is now absolutely That is the end, The marriage is now [Narrator] Panorama had she claimed she never wanted. It was a moment when it may have felt as if everything she'd sought to achieve with the interview had failed. Yet she would soon find it would transform her reputation. The Panorama interview was a platform and a springboard into another dimension. And that's what Panorama did for her. She was no longer and lunching in Belgravia. All of a sudden she was rubbing shoulders with the likes of Bill Clinton. And she finally got the credibility I think she craved. [Narrator] And at Diana's this new world was an old ally. In terms of the personal relationship that she had developed with Martin Bashir it didn't end when he packed and he and his crew He became a constant visitor and support to her for many months. He began helping her with with her speeches. In the wake of Panorama, many of Diana's critics by Bashir in a way she'd come to regret yet her continuing alliance with the journalist suggests I'm Judy Jones, I'm an author and a body language expert. The thought that Diana was by Martin Bashir makes She was so in control of herself, so in control of her emotions and also, so in control of the entire interview, she was staring, guiding. He would ask a question, the and she would breathe in slightly. [Bashir] Is that true? But then very quickly she'd come back without with a pitch-perfect answer. Well, the enemy was my because I always got more publicity. [Narrator] With apparently there's no way of knowing for sure whether the Yet detailed analysis of Diana's performance Those giveaways to me implied that there probably had about what the questions were going to be. And then she was given time maybe to work out what her Panorama wasn't spontaneous. I mean, some of the things I met Diana for a long, long chat, five months before Panorama, just the two of us and these And she says &quot;there were three people in the marriage.&quot; She means Camilla. Well there were three So it was a bit crowded. Now that's one of the most So it was something that you know, months before, Oh there's so much here, What was your reaction to that he had in fact committed adultery? Well, I was totally unaware and actually, saw it on the news that night that it would come out. Part of the plan was to There's a phrase in Shakespeare's, &quot;I didn't come to praise And I think what she does, and this is a good example with Charles is she buries him by praising him. But then I admired the honesty 'cause it takes a lot to do that. [Bashir] In what sense? Well, to be honest about a relationship with someone else in his Diana's physical appearance also played a powerful part in guiding the audience response. She'd use what looked like a white pencil under the rim of the eyes to The look is somebody who appears to have put on makeup in a way that is concealing her distress. It's like somebody who has and then run out of a room come back 10 minutes later I think that's a conscious decision. And I think that she That's not being cunning, it's not being calculating, its survival. The artfulness of the that's acting, that is very considerable, but at the same time, doesn't mean that what she [Narrator] Diana's performance may have borne all the hallmarks of something skillfully rehearsed, but it wasn't simply a bid to get even. It was also a part of a job pitch. What role do you see for I'd like to be an I'd like to represent this country abroad. [Narrator] Many in the It was seized on as an example of the fact that she's out of control. The institution wanted to shove her to the margins of royal life, failing to realize what [upbeat music] As you can see they've and they've excavated out Diana's trip to Angola to promote a ban on landmines of the dream job role I'm only trying to highlight a problem that's going on around I would compare her action, this week with that of Brigitte It's very emotional and very media worthy, but it doesn't add anything Can I get you to introduce your name. Charles Crawford, I was I hosted Diana there when It was politically sensitive. Yes, it's clear that this had been used in an indiscriminate and improper way for sure, in these wars. But doing something about which is watertight so you can make sure that other people aren't cheating it's a job for grown-up diplomacy. [Narrator] Yet fortunately for Diana, there was someone who believed in her ambassadorial potential. [crowd applauds] She had met Blair. And I think she said of him, what Thatcher said of Gorbachev, this is a man I could do business with. [Narrator] Tony Blair later admitted that he had explicitly discussed with Diana a special role She found friends that were in government. She'd never had that before. So perhaps things were [Narrator] It would have of everything Diana had sought [audience applauds] Yet the interview had also set in motion, another set of forces that would soon have [Narrator] By 1997, the Panorama interview had liberated Princess Diana to pursue a bold new ambassadorial role. Yet this new, even more, prominent public profile had Of course, Panorama made She'd given this interview that of course press attention, public attention went stratospheric. I never know where a lens is going to be. A normal day I would come back to my car and find six freelance [Narrator] Some, however, were reluctant to see Diana as simply a passive Well of course the Princess used this double-edged sword. Of course she did. There were a small number of journalists that Diana confided in, and absolutely pre-eminent in that group is Richard Kay of the Daily Mail. No, I mean I was privy to and other things, but no it I could ring Richard Kay and say, &quot;Oh the Princess will be &quot;at Harrods this afternoon at three, &quot;if you're there at the south door &quot;and a photographer's there I never encouraged the media, there was a relationship but now I can't tolerate it because it's become abusive You have a Panorama interview saying, you want the press interest to diminish, strikes me it's a bit unlikely, Each time one enjoys oneself, all be it in a different situation. You have to pay for it 'cause people criticise, as I said previously. But I am a free spirit, But I'm a free spirit, you know, meaning that, &quot;Oh, well, you know, I'm just &quot;if I'm going to pop up on That kind of low chin tilt is not meant to be alluring in any way at all. It's the body language of someone who's literally been forced into a corner. Yes she had encouraged she planted stories and yes, she cooperated with the press at times with certain journalists. And can you have your cake and eat it? Can you be on both sides? Well, no, probably not, but that doesn't stop me having sympathy for the situation she was in. [Narrator] In the summer of 1997, the pressure on Diana in the wake of Panorama reached a new high. When the press got wind of the fact that she was on a and that she was having a bit of a fling with Muhammad Al-fayed the hunt was on. Quite simply it was a media that was every single day, It was just snowballed you that where is this gonna end? [suspenseful music] I found the experience of this interview to be very emotional. I didn't expect it. People don't understand how difficult it is to do an interview, how to project yourself and your emotion through that little square box. It's kind of, I suppose, in a religious sense it's like confession. You're aware that everything you're saying is being recorded and [soft instrumental music] [Narrator] Inside St. James's palace Princess Diana's coffin lay in the peace and privacy of the chapel royal as all day outside the to pay their last respects built up. Did the Panorama interview play a big part in the public response to her death? Unquestionably it did. I think that she was a celebrity victim and I think she came through it. And that was a good People who'd never met her, but people who had remembered her words in the Panorama programme wanted to be there to show their respect for her. She only gave this one interview. She never gave another Audiences probably came to believe that they knew Diana in a way that they didn't know other And hadn't known her before Panorama. [Narrator] After her death, a single phrase from Panorama She was the Queen of people's hearts and what happened to She regretted using the She says that that was a dreadful mistake, but that's the phrase that people remember from Panorama more than anything else. I think ordinary people is a woman who is on a journey. She's on a journey from to being the slandered woman, to being what should have been the fulfilled self-actualized woman, and her death cut that narrative short. But in fact, she had triggered something and her death changed And welcome to the show, [crowd cheers loudly] Princess Diana's interview in lots of ways. With the generation that follows, no one laughs at talking I put on a lot of weight in that period a lot of depression. At first, you look back but it was all right really. But then when you look again and you go, actually there's some Yeah. It's not weak to talk about your emotions. It's actually strong, was seen as something that And in fact, we're actually suspicious of people who don't behave [crowd applauds] I just want to hug you. Thank you. Here we go. Mental health has always hasn't it? Now everybody talks about it, why? Really because We have seen time and time again, that unresolved mental health problems lie at the heart of some of our And why William and Harry had done that because she did it first. She did it first with all I do things differently because I don't go by a rule book because I lead from the We like to be as emotionally but now it is incredibly open. And if you want to be mean well, you know, it's all touchy-feely, and we're all fragile And we can't talk about about how we suffer. The world is getting too offended by everything, too sensitive, too snowflakey, let's just get a grip. Feelings are very important, but thinking and being so and measured and smart are It's easy to look at that we have now and think I've had suicidal thoughts in the past, I've kind of been there. We need to talk and talking's really good. And it helps you overcome so many things. But there's also the possibility that people may start coming forward, claiming victimhood, when actually by any normal standard they have literally We must stand for what is right. But I think being candid and the bad stuff is a really good thing. All the things that we for in 1995 have really become the norm. It will say something good for people who are now gonna grow up in a much more emotionally [upbeat music]