I built three trading bots to trade stock One safe, one risky, In today's video, I'm going to show you All the technology I used Well, and I'm on a mission to inspire developers Let's go. Oh, okay. So I would never consider myself I mean, come on, How hard can it be? Buy high, sell low. But surprise, surprise, So I read up on Trading Strategies How could I possibly make more money And from my initial research, So you just kind of make it up on the spot you can wear a suit to work. But here's I'm going to create three trading bots going from fairly safe all the way The first one is a mix of momentum It makes decisions or sells, depending on how the stock The second bot scans If the news is good, we immediately sell the third buy. I can't even believe I'm doing this. Selects Grabs the latest news article AI to determine what Taylor Swift If the lyric is happy, When we hold that stock, we continue and if the lyrics match Swift Trade 1.0. This is what I do for a living. You're probably wondering While the sponsor of today's video I'm using data stocks Astro and when it comes to speed, with databases with vector values DB helps you scale your application without the worries of scaling, with serverless architecture, enterprise You can literally create a database and just a couple of clicks for Python Node Go or even just a C ally. So if you're familiar with Cassandra, But if you're like me and don't understand to connect your application In minutes. I create a Chrome extension videos easily with data stacks And it was so easy to just that require complex components It's also easy to include Create a Cassandra vector search for a small business in your area It's actually shockingly simple. Leaders in every industry are using data applications, and you can too Thanks data stacks for enabling my reckless behavior If you're building an AI app click the link in the description below to learn more about how you can use So here's how the first trading bot works Every minute the bot looks at a predefined set of safe The average price and the p e ratio, which is the companies If a stock is above the average price and we buy, we then check to see If it is, we sell I'm of course and unfortunately which is the only option I have Like really? Also, but thanks to the magic of open source, someone made a package What's funny is actually the hardest to make. There's a lot of technical that I just don't really care about, so You know, so when you're building one of these bots, the first thing that you do Backtesting and see how it performs In Python, Trader that lets me implement my strategy And since this is only going to be less the last couple of months of data that I spent so long on this at. Seriously ridiculous. So let's test it. Okay. Looks like we need some improvements. Sometimes it's So a lot of these backtesting libraries them all in different combinations So let's optimize 25 different periods. 30 different overbought thresholds That means that we're testing over 22,500 Let's get started. So for reference, I have 24 different cores on my computer and use them all in parallel It was seriously so long and it took over So insane. And the worst part is that the best return I got was like $23, So I'll do it with these parameters right Usually with save or stocks, or ten years So honestly, $23 honestly might be a win. Let's just convert it into the interactive The second bar scans for news articles on companies We look up the company If it's bad and we own that stock, And this is how we can test. How does the news affect the stock market? Something I wasn't expecting was all information is basically everywhere and Reddit API situation so it looks like I'm forking up First, I downloaded the list of stocks on NASDAQ and New York Stock Exchange. I used to open again Then embed this description upload to Astra and we're good to go easy. All right, let's test it out. Who is ten? Awesome. So it seems to be working. Coding with Lewis builds Okay, cool. Then I plugged in and use API and identify what stock is likely going to Now the back trading strategy, this one is going to be considering there's a whole bunch of data Also, It was already expensive as it is, So I'll write a script Headline sentiment I just got the NVIDIA 49 and it's really coming in clutch right now And just because I'm curious, I'm positive articles, Wow. Bummer. All right. This testing shouldn't be too hard. So it was pretty hard. So I have this set up here and I'll use a sentiment analysis I'll just do s box like Starbucks. It's actually funny so it was climbed up Which insane? $102. So imagine if five days later I sold it. Let's try Tesla. I'd be a crazy one here. Okay. Even there you make money and do. Oh, wow. That's actually a crazy, crazy thing. I mean, to be fair, Elon Absolutely insane. Okay, let's convert this into interactive to the races. Here's what we have to do. We select a random stock at every stock Like last time we grab the five We embed the articles and have data stocks that relates to it the most. We then determine If it's positive, we buy as much stock And I can't even believe less, build First Less Locked Down. The Taylor Swift Lyrics. This one was surprisingly hard to find, provided it all on GitHub An absolute legend. She literally has no idea Now separate all the lines of each lyric. For further reference for myself, now to save herself some time. We can just do the sentiment analysis so we can save it The lyrics and save to a new column and push up in batches A first test. Awesome. Grab her existing list of stocks, random so I can grab and use data is that we already have a lot of the functions there. Now let's get some back test started. How I tested but it's a bit harder It did really well, sometimes it didn't. And there's a thousand of stocks So I'm thinking Let's just convert to interactive brokers So it's the next day. I have all three bots here Can I press the button? Here we go. Oh, Mid-Wicket. Oh. Oh, oh. So I was only able to run them or four days because I had so many issues But more on that later. For now, let's get into the results. So for bot one, only Duke Energy was bought shares at $90.09, We then sold like 2 hours So with this stock, We ended up buying 24 shares at $9.38 totaling to $225.24. We then sold that $10.22, meaning of $20.16 combined both together. And we actually made $13.28. I mean, that bought number one wasn't going to cause significant loss or gain, We bought over nine stocks, GameStop, and then sold at $13.23, The Grinder app. We bought 46 shares at $6.14 $6.76, giving us a profit of $28.29. Take-Two Interactive. We bought only one share, $153.94, This was a last minute trade, The Insulet Corp, we bought one and sold for $174.26, giving us a profit of $4.22 We bought 50 shares for $5.63 and sold $5.73, giving us a $4.80 profit. AT&amp;T, we bought 18 shares at $15.56 and sold for $15.78, Astra space. We bought 195 and then selling at $1 and four for $0.02. This means we got a loss at a dollar Hudson Global and then sold at $15.47, Molson Coors Beer. We bought four stocks at $59.65 and then sold for $59 and 66 one cents, And the part that you're probably waiting here, the results of that. So we actually only ever bought two stocks I'm thinking maybe this was because were initially bought, Then this article called JT Income Fund. Somehow related to Stay beautiful, Beautiful from the original Taylor Swift Not sure why, but it went with it. So we ended up buying 101 shares at $11.22 and then sold at $11.20, Then it randomly chose at X Corp So again, from the album Taylor Swift, When you think Tim McGraw from the song at $108.63 and then eventually sold at $110.87, giving us a profit of $22.45. That's right. We made money off this real money. So after all is said and done, all three This is from around 3 to 4 days of active trading and between 13 different stocks, The $109.35 accounts But I also had to buy market data. So interactive brokers So if you actually want to include that in your portfolio, I can only get shorts, my long form videos Coding with Lewis is my full time job Who helps out of these videos? And to me, that's just beyond insane. Thank you so much We're planning a special event so make sure you check it out If you like videos like this then check out my Reddit bot that you always see as well as my news