(bright jingle) - [Falcon] Open world maps are always full of interesting things, but sometimes the interesting points aren't necessarily points of interest. Sometimes they're old homes Hi, folks. It's Falcon. And today on &quot;Gameranx.&quot; 10 Strangely Creepy Houses Starting off at number 10, it's the creepy Volga Now, this list isn't about or terrifying or the No, today we're looking at to sink in just how creepy they are. And like, they hit you 'cause you're in a huge open world. And a lot of these games These places are usually Sometimes they don't even have But by the very nature of being in an open world game, That's especially true when it's 2:00 AM and you're in the gamer days, Those times where you sort of zone out playing an open world game, just wandering around then you suddenly notice this random place you wandered into just, And you sort of sit up and take notice. These places, they're never gonna be the scariest locations in games ever, but they managed to be memorable 'cause they feel like places and that you really shouldn't be in. The unnamed house in the of &quot;Metro Exodus&quot; is It's an abandoned structure in the South Central section of the map. When you go inside, it seems but as you explore, the amount of skeletons There are people dead in some are just slumped down in place. (air quivering) (water splashing) (monster groaning) (water splashing) Further into the house, there's a corpse of a That stands out 'cause look like they died instantly. But this guy had to have still been alive. So, maybe something a little There's only a few things to loot, so it's not really a lot to find. But on your way out, suddenly of people living in the It's a little eerie, but then the radiation so you gotta put a gas mask on. It's weird enough, but it really goes into the strangely creepy but suddenly there's a six-hour time skip. So, what happened? Did you guys silently stand This place is already creepy, makes this location (soldier gasping deeply) (timer beeping) (monster groaning) (heartbeat thumping) And number nine is &quot;Mad Most random locations in &quot;Mad but this one really stands out both for its uniqueness in the setting and just how hidden it actually is. In an extremely easy to miss spot in the middle of the empty there's some random bits of shelter and a ladder that leads underground. Going down there, you think or maybe a submerged shipping But as you progress through the tunnel, you find there's actually which leads to this extremely that's practically trapped in time. It's an entire suburban house You enter through the wall that connects to the master bedroom. The only sign of life in the area is this dead raider on top of a bloody bed and a skeleton in the bathtub. Leaving the room, you can actually go down There's a couple rooms to explore. It's super eerie going through this house 'cause there's nothing like (air quivering) (animal yipping) (air quivering) (animal yipping) (air quivering) In &quot;Fallout&quot;, these kinds of but in &quot;Mad Max&quot;, you almost never see the remnants of the old world like this. Everything is either a or completely obliterated. So, seeing a lot of these There's no enemies, no ghosts Just an atmospheric with a lot of creepy little details. (fire crackling) (footsteps plodding) (fire crackling) (footsteps plodding) (animals yipping) And number eight is &quot;Red Dead There's so much creepy stuff hiding away in unexplored places in &quot;Red Dead 2.&quot; And I've talked about a But there's one mundanely I've never actually gotten So, what better time than the present? In New Hanover, east from Emerald Station, there's an innocuous little stone cabin that It's a place you can easily without thinking twice about it. But for the people who have actually bothered there's an unpleasant To get inside, the door and the inside is a grizzly site. (wood thumping) (crow cowing) (wood crashing) (footsteps plodding) (floorboard creaking) An entire family of corpses slumped over as if they died suddenly and unexpectedly. There's a father at the dinner table, mother on the floor, And the most disturbing thing here is the child slumped over a rocking horse, and the grandmother behind The whole place is filled up with smoke. And if you look around, you'll notice that the filling the room with smoke that obviously must have It's a disturbing scene made somehow worse by the lack of any supernatural influence. It's just a tragic thing that happened, and that's all that there is to it. Nobody even knows that this family died and they could remain here for all you know. Imagine if some house just had a dead family in it There's something so creepy And if you hadn't you'd never know. (footsteps plodding) (utensils clattering) (liquid sloshing) At number seven is This location's a little more guided. It's more of a type of thing you'd expect from a creepy location list. that to me at least it still stands out. In the Schrodinger system, you can find it abandoned When you enter, it's clear that this was some kind of large science vessel that people had been But as you explore, there's no trace of any At least at first. It doesn't take long to start detailing some kind of dangerous creature they brought on board to study. The ship is dark and foreboding. It's a sort of creepy location you rarely actually run And there aren't that So, regardless of if you it's stands out just because these kinds of abandoned ships in The way this place builds You might notice some in the corner of your eye, that you finally get a look at the thing. (mechanical door swooshing) - [Andreja] I hope you can succeed at that before we are discovered. (guns firing) And it's pretty dangerous. The creature can mess you up There's no quest, no big reward. Just a nasty alien after a perfect build up of tension. Yes, calling this a house but it's a spaceship that people lived on. There's signs of life What other chance do I have to talk about one of &quot;Starfield's&quot; might I add? (atmosphere rumbling) (gun cocking) (water sloshing) And number six is &quot;Mafia 3.&quot; You can come in, but It's like the Eagles In the Southwest corner of the map, deep in the bayou, there's Getting inside is easy, For whatever reason, I seem to not be able Maybe they patched it. Maybe it's actually tied But used to be able to enter this place by entering this burned down building and climbing down some stairs, Nothing particularly Well, the burned down building beside it is a little suspect, but the actual compound isn't (crickets chirping) (frogs croaking) (crickets chirping) (footsteps thudding) (crickets chirping) Until you turn around to leave and realize there is no way out. All the doors are locked, There is no way out of this place. You are trapped forever. Well, at least until you load a save. But still, there's something unsettling about an unmarked, unknown it would be important in Places like that make your mind wander. Thinking about what and what purpose they serve. When the game first came It was just a weird and mysterious place. Hidden deep down in a section of the map that's already underserved. The entire bayou in &quot;Mafia 3&quot; feels like cut content or something. It's a huge area with almost nothing in it other than a few main game So, actually finding something down here is interesting enough. And when you go in and can't I'm almost certain this place is related to a mission and a sign of times DLC, so that's probably what it's for. But the rest of it's still creepy. Maybe it's just memories that makes it lingerer in my mind. But we've all experienced something like that in Maybe it's just me. (footsteps plodding) (crickets chirping) (gunshot booming) (gun cocking) (bullets whizzing) And number five is &quot;Animal Well.&quot; So, &quot;Animal Well,&quot; it's more than a true open world game. But you can tack with making it more open than a But the real important thing here is it has one of the most weirdly So you know, if it's we gotta talk about it. If you've played this, you know exactly what I'm talking about. It's the house you reach after beating the game for the first time. There's a lot of stuff that For one thing, there's anywhere else in the game. The entire game, you're exploring and suddenly you open a door and you're in this modernish looking house with light fixtures and a TV and a couch. It's really odd. And there's nothing but it's super uncanny to be in. Kind of a liminal-ish space. (water glugging) (bubble popping) (graphic blipping) (bubble popping) (graphic blipping) It's importance to the rest The place is full of little secrets like the TV you can change channels on and mysterious locked door upstairs. It requires a special key by getting all the eggs in the game, which is its own complicated process. It's a mystery house with layers. And it plays an important part in getting all the endings of the game. And while the whole game has this place dials up the strangeness. It's got this droning slightly while you're in the house, and It's weird. And number four is Usually when I imagine a creepy house, I think of someplace and far away from civilization. This entry is far from that. It's an apartment smack dab But there's so many opportunities for creepy locations in the game, and this one delivers There's a seemingly abandoned with nothing in it identifying it as a place you can go into. But if you approach the doors, they'll open into nearly The building creepy enough on its own. You can seriously barely But if you find the staircase there's an especially Normally you can only see There is blood and indecipherable It's a effectively creepy spot that feels like you're seeing something you're not supposed to. (eerie foreboding music) There's no way to actually It's meant to be closed off. But with a little cheating, There's riding and scribbling anywhere and a broken wrench on the floor. Maybe this place relates to another quest and you just don't know about it, or it's really just meant I don't know. It's almost creepy you're And number three is &quot;Elden Midra's Mansion. Getting into this place is scarier than actually being there. You reach the classic gothic mansion by going through a bunch of who are essentially horror monsters straight from a completely In contrast, the actual but that doesn't stop It's just a sinister place. Everything's smoldering. Dead bodies are left for and little details are everywhere chronicling the House of Usher style. History of death and It's by far the most traditional but it's not a straight up horror either. There's no jump scares. It's actually fairly well lit. But it's still extremely The base game only hinted at Lovecraft-style Eldridge Horror. This place leans right into it. The entire mansion burns that drive anyone who encounters it mad. And it's all in service of building up to the boss at the end of the mansion, which is one of the best in the entire game. (eerie foreboding music) (fire whooshing) (ominous ethereal music) (rousing sinister vocalizing) (fire whooshing) (rousing sinister vocalizing) It's not an entry about the So, we won't get too far into that. But it's got everything you could want from a spooky mansion. It's got ghosts, giant gigantic burning libraries. It's such a strange space. It's really hard to describe and just showing it doesn't do it justice. It's one of those things you to be truly unsettled by it. And number two is &quot;Oblivion&quot;, Bethesda are the undisputed kings of strangely creepy houses. And this is a good example of why. In Skingrad, there's an unmarked called Nerastarel's There's no character and it still counts as So, what's up with that? The outside of the house When you go inside, it's clearly It's dark and disheveled. Dungeon music plays when you're inside, and for some reason it's got zombies. Nobody in town mentions the house. There's nothing else It's just a really creepy that serves no other function than being a extremely creepy place to wander into by mistake. (wraith screeching) (swords clashing) (burn sizzling) (wraith screeching) (hero grunting) (swords clashing) (hero grunting) It's the perfect example It's spooky enough on its the mystery of what this place actually is and why it's here, it's never answered. And those are things that and make it really memorable, where there is a lot of lore about. And finally at number one is &quot;Fallout 3's&quot; Plunger Room of Death. This innocuously titled shelter, one of many unmarked areas I think the devs were going for goofy, but it's so strange that it's less funny and more You'd think something that start at the door, climb the walls and go up to the ceiling But the bloody hand print combined with the already make this whole area come There's a statue head that couldn't possibly A fridge full of human skulls and a garden gnome with eyes in hands, et cetera. There's mannequins everywhere. There's plunger statue It's really, really weird. I think it will probably leave most people freaked out entering it. &quot;Fallout 3&quot; is one of those games where even though it's it leaves you feeling after playing it for I blame the creepy ambient music when you're exploring buildings. Combine with the creepy green obviously there's probably more to it, but whatever secret sauce this game has, it's just able to feel freaky even though you're basically That's the power of &quot;Fallout 3.&quot; And the way they just hide around the world only makes Even in parts like this, where I'm pretty sure it's And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first so click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon. You can follow We'll see you next time