Welcome to Home Electrification Part 2! This video continues on from where we left off in part 1. Funny how that works. There's a clicky thing, link below, all that. In the previous video we talked about the capacity problem will run into as they make the switch from burning stuff and how load management solutions can sidestep that issue. Here, we'll talk a little bit more about that, then discuss some truly plug-and-play options that are on the horizon (and in some cases available now), before finally discussing some strategies to deal with this happening. It does happen sometimes, but that doesn't Last time, we talked a lot about smart breaker panels. Those can absolutely do a whole heckuva lot but they're not the only way to meet the goal It may be worth having those smarts depending but here's a simpler idea: sharing. Right now, general practice is to give every high-draw electrical appliance its own dedicated circuit in your breaker box and its own dedicated run of wiring. But maybe that's overkill. Consider this shot I keep reusing. The water heater and dryer are right next to each other. Both of them have their own run of 10 gauge wiring going back to the panel and their own 30A breaker. As designed, the electrical system here accounts for a potential and together they require 4 slots in the panel. But is that truly necessary? What if instead we ran a single circuit to a very-slightly smart junction box that ping-ponged power between either the water heater or the dryer? If it detects current draw from the dryer using the same circuit for two tasks. There are tons of different ways this could be done. It doesn't even need to be smart at all if you don't want it to be. A simple switch that lets you toggle between So long as you can prevent both items from running together, then the electrical system only has to account which not only frees up more capacity to do other things, And as we discussed, a conventional storage water heater is a battery! You can delay recharging it and use that circuit If you saw my electric vehicle charging guide, that's another great way to use one circuit to do two things, and there are commercially available products Oh, and the energy-diverting device can live anywhere! You don't necessarily need to be lucky and have your dryer close to your water heater. It could simply be an add-on that lives next to your breaker panel, with one wire going in and two wires going out. As a matter of fact, this would be helpful to me! I'm officially out of slots for breakers so once the time comes for me to get a cold-climate heat pump, I'll need another two slots if I decide to add heat strips in the air handler. If I can combine the water heater and dryer Done! Electricity is an incredibly flexible thing we have access to, and the possibilities are virtually endless. But, no matter if our load management solution it still won't solve the "running new circuits" problem. If there isn't a high capacity circuit going well that's still work you have to do. It's not exactly rocket surgery to run some new wires, But I have good news: thanks to the miracles of batteries and heat pumps, you can actually electrify all those things OK, well maybe a little bit. And the stove isn't a real purchasable product quite yet. But 120V heat pump water heaters and clothes dryers Before we continue, though, these are not magic bullets and rest assured I know that. Please don't think I'm suggesting these options so there are reasons you may still prefer to run new circuits However, the ability to cut gas out of your clothes drying, water heating, and diet diet without doing any electrical work is I'll start with heat pump water heaters Literally! Now, uh, while they are cool, this section is pretty long because of the 120V solutions out there, But I ain't afraid of no nuance, so let's dive in. Most electric water heaters simply run electric Simple and effective! But you need a lot of power to do that. Heating water is, frankly, hard. A heat pump water heater can dramatically reduce the power you need because instead of using electrical energy to make new heat, it gobbles up heat energy from the air surrounding the tank and moves it inside. A heat pump water heater looks just like any to accommodate what essentially amounts to the guts of a When it needs to heat the water inside, Now, don't worry, they aren't as loud Reportedly newer models are a bit louder than your average refrigerator. But they do behave like air conditioners in This might seem weird, but that's where It's a lot like a backwards refrigerator. Instead of keeping its insides cold by pushing heat out, it keeps its insides hot by pulling heat in. That side-effect might be the best thing ever Or perhaps, as would be the case for me, both! A heat pump water heater effectively provides And, just like an air conditioner, it also removes moisture from the air. In my Midwestern basement, this would be super Usually I spend a not-small amount of energy (which incidentally also generates a good deal of heat). But if my water heater did some dehumidifying and ALSO drastically reducing the energy cost to heat water, sign me up right now! In the winter months, though, it would turn into a bummer. Now the thing is stealing some of the heat But that's not necessarily terrible. Lots of folks consider this to be a dealbreaker for heat pump water heaters, however I would submit that so long as the building's primary heat source is more efficient than resistive electric heat, which I sure hope it is, a heat pump water heater will still save energy Still, there are significant drawbacks to consider. First, we should address the cylindrical elephant in the room. A storage water heater, no matter what heats it, is a pretty large object To be clear, lots and lots of homes already have space for it because they've got a very similar cylindrical elephant in the room right now. But, a fair bit of newer housing developments and some older homes have moved in that direction I don't blame you for wanting that, but there's just one big problem with its small size. Almost all tankless water heaters are powered by gas or propane. And regrettably, if you only have the space for a tankless water heater, you might very well be stuck with gas for the foreseeable future. Electric tankless water heaters do exist but especially if you live in a cold climate. Again, heating water is hard and if you want to get water from near-freezing (which is about seven and a half liters) you're gonna need roughly 1.4 million joules per minute, or 23,535 joules per second. And a joule per second is what a watt is. So to do this with electricity, you need 23 and a half thousand watts, or essentially all of the power available to you with 100 amp service. That's just not realistic, and that's the entire reason storage water heaters The water in the tank plus its thick blanket of insulation buys you time so you only need to add moderate amounts of power Soap box alert! Honestly, having a highly-insulated tank is such a useful feature for several reasons. Not only does it allow us to shift energy demand around, but it also provides an emergency reserve of potable water, and personally I feel like the movement away from storage water heaters is not which rely on that storage to work. By the way, allow me to address a common misconception: tankless water heaters absolutely do not provide you with a matter of fact they're slower at producing hot water because it's not already hot! They have to detect flow when you open a hot water tap and perform a startup sequence which takes time. If instant hot water is what you're after, a hot-water recirculation system which pumps a loop of hot water around the pipes in your home is what you actually need-- and that can be installed with a conventional storage water heater. Really, the only other advantage of tankless (and frankly kinda dubious claims of reduced leaking risk) is that you can't run out of hot water, but to make that possible you either need or something flammable which you can burn at a rapid clip. Given the tremendous energy savings a heat pump water heater can provide, I would highly suggest against taking a and if you live where that has already been done, You are absolutely welcome to disagree with me, but I find that the ability to collect the energy around the tank (which is, to be clear, entirely free in the warmer months is much more interesting than having a limitless supply of hot water. But, now that I'm off that soapbox, assuming you like this idea well not everybody has a basement and depending on where you water heater lives you might still run into some issues. You can generally run a duct from the water heater's cold-air return and push that air somewhere else so it can live in a tight space like a utility closet, but regardless you will have to live with it producing cold air somewhere. And if your water heater currently resides in an unconditioned space like a garage, if ambient temperatures regularly get near freezing out there, it may not work. You also have to deal with it producing an entirely new kind of water: Surprise water! I mentioned earlier that it provides free dehumidification - that happens because as it collects energy from the evaporator, its surface becomes very cold which causes moisture in the air to condense on it. That condensing moisture eventually piles up into droplets of water that fall off the evaporator and then need to be dealt with. If you have a drain where your water heater is, But if you don't have a drain nearby you may need a condensate pump The next big downside is the recharge time. Heat pump water heaters are slower than and in fact most heat pump water heaters for sale today are 240V "hybrid" models which still have traditional heating elements as an option. You can choose to use them in the winter months or if hot water demand is high. But if we're talking 120V models that only have the heat pump, Some work around this by keeping the water extremely hot and using a thermostatic mixing valve to temper it In effect, this artificially increases the size of the tank But if you do end up using all the hot water it will be a few hours before the tank is back up to temperature. Luckily, an easy solution is making the tank bigger, and they make big ol' 80 gallon versions if you need a lot of hot water - though obviously space might be an issue there Energy is energy, and water is water. Finally, there's cost and availability. A basic electric water heater costs between five and six hundred bucks, meanwhile a heat pump water heater costs three to four times as much. For those of us who have electric water heaters right now, that cost delta is paid for pretty quickly but if you're coming from gas the savings probably won't be quite as dramatic - and if your electricity is expensive and your gas is cheap, they might not materialize. Don't discount the free cooling and dehumidifying, though, especially if you live where it's warm year-round. Then there's the issue that 120V heat pump water heaters and in some cases not available for sale in all markets. Rheem, for instance, reportedly will not sell theirs outside of warm climates. Which... I mean I guess that makes sense, but it's not like they wouldn't work On that note, because heat pump water heaters are a fairly new thing, we're still learning how best to use them. For example, research has recently shown that we don't need the air volume meaning they can go in smaller rooms and still work effectively and efficiently. There are also split systems which get their though frankly this would only be advantageous in winter months (and a waste of free cooling in warm climates) so I don't expect to see that become widespread unless you live where home heating systems that also produce hot water are common. If you already have a separate water heater, it's much easier to just yank out one thing and replace it with a similar one. On that note, dryers! Heat pump clothes dryers are available right now and these bad boys plug into a standard outlet, and don't need any venting so they can be placed anywhere. This makes them much easier to recommend. In fact for many people they're unlocking the ability to have a dryer in the first place. I must confess that I'm not the biggest because the pumping of heat is mostly incidental to how they work. I got tripped up by this myself; their actual task is to dry things Heat pumps just happen to be a common way that we do that. A heat pump dryer is the same tumbly cylinder but with the components of a common dehumidifier Air is continuously blown into the drum, and then it's drawn over a cold, energy-absorbing evaporator The cold surface of the evaporator causes and then that same air immediately goes across the hot, energy-releasing condenser which increases its temperature and thus decreases its relative humidity. That now dry air will go back into the drum then it leaves, goes across the evaporator goes across the condenser and gets hot and dry again, goes back into the drum to absorb moisture from the clothes again, and this repeats ad nauseum 'til the clothes are dry. The thermal feedback loop created here does but the drying action mainly comes from the fact that it's constantly drying the air which naturally allows it to absorb more moisture from your clothes. Really, this is more like forcibly line-drying with a constant breeze of warm, dry air. Heat pump dryers don't really have any installation First is, again, purchase cost and availability. They're more expensive than a conventional dryer right now, and pretty rare all-things considered. But since they're really just dehumididryers I am all but certain they'll get cheaper and easier to buy with time. The second is that they're a wee bit more fiddly to use. The water that gets extracted from your clothes which you need to empty every cycle or two. In addition to that added task, these dryers You don't want lint getting onto the evaporator and clogging its fins, so extra filtration is designed into the machine The last and biggest drawback is that they're It might take two or even three times as long so if you have a big family and are constantly doing laundry, Really that's kinda it, though. If you can deal with a bit of fiddliness and aren't in a hurry, you'll enjoy a dryer that plugs into a standard outlet, can be put anywhere, uses a fraction of the energy needed by a conventional dryer, doesn't blow huge quantities of conditioned air out of your home is probably less likely to start a house fire since it doesn't get all that hot and there isn't a vent pipe to trap flammable lint, and which many report is gentler on clothes because, again, There's a lot to like about them so long And lastly, let's talk about the drop-in replacement for a stove Quick note, though: you need to try an induction stove first. They're not yet very common at all in the US for some unknown reason, although I personally don't have a problem with, But induction technology flips this on its head because the cooktop heats your cookware directly with the power of magnets (essentially), offering the same instant change in heat intensity that gas does, While full-on stoves and cooktops remain weirdly you can get cheap portable burners like this The biggest downside of induction is that but if a magnet sticks to the bottom of a pot, But let's move on. Cooking (at home, anyway) is an exercise in using a lot of power... but only for brief periods of time. Today, we supply electric stoves with high-amperage But they very rarely do that, and never for long. Having that much power available is only necessary But what if it did? If your stove had a battery to serve as an energy buffer, it wouldn't need access to a huge power supply. It could slowly charge that battery from an ordinary outlet and then pump out big bursts of power when you need it to cook a meal. And when you no longer do, it'll go back to charging the battery from wall-power This might sound far-fetched and somewhat silly, but you don't need a very large battery to make a very powerful stove. Yes, a stove needs to pump out a lot of power, but it doesn't actually use a lot of energy because the power comes in bursts. About the longest high-power burst you're and that still doesn't amount to all that much energy in the grand scheme. In a real-world test I did with a conventional electric stove, a burner outputting about 2 kW And 2 kW for 18 minutes is only 600 watt-hours. Portable battery banks of that size are easily Obviously a cheap battery bank from Amazon ain't gonna cut it, but the point is you don't need a huge battery. 2 kilowatt-hours of battery storage would be pretty generous, and because it's 2023 and progress has indeed been happening we have relatively inexpensive and stable battery chemistries And that's why startups like Impulse and and ranges using this very idea. Now I know. The word "startup" carries a lot of baggage. And sometimes they don't always operate in the most, uh, let's call it sensible fashion. For instance, Impulse is working on a perfectly which I'm sure will be a lovely product that people will be happy with. Its battery will even keep it working through a power outage, which is very neat. But, and I hate to be the bearer of bad news, it cannot have a huge impact here in the US ranges. We don't have separate cooktops and ovens, that's fancy pants stuff for those Europeans. That's a joke, but according to the Energy Information Administration, 89% of US households have ranges. It is a slim minority who don't. So if anyone at Impulse is watching, ya gotta make a range. I would suggest adding it to your development path Or, indeed, a different startup, like Channing Street Copper. Their range has a name - Charlie! And it's sold out. And it was also quite pricey. And apparently only sold in the Bay area. That's kinda weird. But, they are incorporating a very generous and also are putting some neat tricks up its sleeve. For instance, like Impulse it will also work but Charlie can also offload its stored power to other That's really cool! And yeah, if you're gonna put a big battery in there, Hold onto that idea, folks, it's coming up again soon! Now, by all means I hope these startups succeed. But this idea, unless it's patent-protectable which, is frightfully copyable. In fact, since most electric ranges have a big ol' storage drawer below the oven, it's almost too easy! If someone just makes a sufficiently-large with a 120V charge-controller on one end and you could just slap that thing into an off-the-shelf range and be done. I'm sure there are more cost-effective and and I'm also pretty sure that industry incumbents But this is by no means a huge technical challenge. But now for the frozen pecans. I mean - pros and cons. Obviously adding a battery to a stove makes it a more expensive stove, however if it saves you from the hassle of installing a range circuit, And as batteries get cheaper, But, of course, we have the fact that there's Lithium iron phosphate batteries have a promising lifespan, and Channing Street Copper is claiming 80% capacity after 20 years of use so this isn't necessarily a huge deal, but I certainly hope manufacturers don't get too proprietary so they can be replaced down the road with minimal hassle. The ability to use the stove through a power outage and in that way makes it better than any conventional And if it can offload its stored power for other tasks, Still, I must admit that I have some hesitancies and don't think we should do it all willy-nilly. But, this particular application does seem If a gas-to-electric stove swap is literally just a swap, that makes a whole lotta things easier. Including, by the way, energy-management on the grid. If a stove only needs a little bit of power, that's easier to manage than millions of stoves all switching on at dinner time. Plus it could shift its power demand away from dinner-time entirely. Batteries - they're pretty neat! I hope you can see that, so long as the devices getting to an all-electric home can actually be pretty easy - If a like-for-like swap can be done with your stove, water heater, and dryer, the only real challenge is retrofitting your heating system. And if you've got central air conditioning, Even if you don't, mini-split heat pumps, can make the transition at least relatively painless. Just gotta work on pricing, availability, Which is a bigger barrier than you might expect. But now, let's talk about what happens if That's a concern I know lots of people have with an all-electric home, especially if you live where losing your heat source However, I think it's important to acknowledge doesn't work without electricity. Same goes for any boiler that needs power Yes, there are people jury-rigging plugs onto their furnace but for the most part those of us with gas heat unless we have some kind of whole-home backup generator. And, spoiler alert, those don't all run on natural gas. This problem is also, of course, very dependent If you're close to a population center powered by a competent utility, you may lose power so infrequently that this discussion is pretty much pointless. But if you're very rural and lose it a lot, then yeah - you probably want some other energy source available Although, if you're rural there's a good chance you might Regardless, please understand as we go into this section and I know that. I'm just trying to throw some ideas out there. If you do desire an all-electric home yet there are many many ways to have one besides For instance, did you know that for many decades now we have had standardized, very flexible and cheap batteries You see these things everywhere and can get them at many big-box stores! We just tend to use them for grilling and camping. That's right, I'm talking about propane and propane accessories. Now, to be clear, I would actually like us to stop using fossil fuels, However, it has several huge advantages as an emergency stand-by energy source. It's very shelf-stable, meaning you can keep a tank around for years and it has a low global warming potential so leaks to the atmosphere are nowhere near as problematic as methane leaks. Stored propane can do pretty much everything natural gas does in a pinch, To keep you warm, inexpensive portable heaters are available, though air quality will quickly go to crap There are plenty of camping stoves which use propane, And, it can even provide you with a combination [click click, fwoomp fwoomp] Now, obviously, storing grill bottles and using them indoors, is not without some element of risk... but on the other hand, neither is having a functionally limitless supply well I'll leave that risk assessment up to you. Just be careful and follow all instructions and warnings. There are also fairly inexpensive portable generators Like any portable generator they're loud and annoying, and are still plenty dangerous especially if you don't use them correctly but they exist if you insist. Now again, I'm definitely not trying to sell you on propane. That's the job of those influencer-types. Somehow. It's not a cheap fuel, in fact around here it's not that much cheaper Where I live, even a mediocre heat pump is almost always cheaper to run I just think it's a pretty versatile temporary and if you're keen on having some sort of backup heat source, An investment of a few hundred bucks can get and with frugal use of the heater that should last you at least a few days. Definitely be careful, though. In the long-run, keeping a few propane bottles on hand for emergency use feels like a more sensible strategy to me than deciding to keep your gas hookup active "just in case." Especially because there's generally an ongoing fee just to have that gas connection which then incentivizes you to keep using it. Also, consider that while the natural gas that's not always the case. You are still relying on an outside entity to provide you with energy, Also, it's likely that the gas grid will become increasingly fragile with time as people use it less and the costs to maintain that infrastructure Food for thought. Now, while there are plenty o' propane-powered products they're all, at least to my sensibilities, In the context of emergency use I suppose that's par for the course, but I would welcome the development of safer emergency heat options - like, maybe, a portable furnace with a real heat exchanger that pushes combustion byproducts outside. And I should note that portable tanks are not the only option so if you are prone to frequent and long power outages, Although, you may very likely already have that setup - and with the cost of propane I imagine you're looking at electrifying your stuff anyway! Speaking of electrifying stuff, cars! An electric car might actually provide an important role in a power emergency. Of course, not everyone needs or wants a car, and not everyone who has one can keep it close to their home But if you have an electric car, And car manufacturers are increasingly offering My car offers a feature called Vehicle-to-Load. An onboard inverter will supply 15A of 120V AC power I recently ran a test to determine how long the car could power basic necessities including a refrigerator, freezer, internet modem, and laptop. Doing that for 24 hours, used a mere 12% of its battery pack capacity. By planning ahead and ensuring the car is I can expect the car to provide at least 5 full days of backup power for those basics and still have the driving range to travel roughly 100 miles. And all the while it provides emergency power, it does so silently and without the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning As DC fast charging stations proliferate, I will also have the option to take the car there and get another five days of backup power with 15 or 20 minutes of charging - assuming a close-enough station is online, of course, but I expect commercial areas with DC fast charging stations will get priority repairs when power grid problems occur. Obviously, this strategy is full of caveats. I didn't account for heating or cooling needs, and my car's V2L function is limited to what a standard household outlet can provide. But Hyundai's implementation is by no means the only one out there - we can look to Ford to see the other extreme. Ford offers what they call Intelligent Backup Power with the F-150 Lightning. That system integrates into your home's electrical system and can provide nearly 10 kW of power. With that much on-tap, you can do pretty much anything - And with the truck's humongous battery pack, you can exceed a week of backup power so long as you cut out unnecessary consumption. Even with my car's rather limited system, though, I'm personally quite confident in it A lot of my confidence comes from circumstance, though - winter power outages are rare where I live and generally quickly repaired, and although summers can get pretty brutal, a lack of air conditioning is generally more annoying than it is life-threatening. Ah but even then, I can always turn the car on I also don't have the need to provide power to a sump pump or well pump, which helps a lot. But my point here is that while this approach (and not all electric cars offer this feature yet it's definitely something to keep in mind. I've run into a lot of people who worry but consider that they may actually provide a *solution* to power outages, But of course there are nearly endless possibilities Even a conventional car can provide power with an inverter in a pinch, and some hybrids out there feature powerful inverter systems allowing you to turn the car into a competent portable generator if need be. Don't have a car? Big luggable battery packs are available with Many of those can also be charged from solar panels, a temporary setup of a few panels on the lawn could take care of you. There's also the resource we all have already: our communities. We can choose to spend many thousands of dollars with triple-redundant whole-home backup systems to survive the purge. But in a real widespread power emergency, This happens all the time, in fact. And so long as we put our efforts towards the right places, we can build-up the grid to make it more resilient and decrease the frequency of power outages in the first place. That might include microgrid technologies can keep an area functional even without a Or it could include like, y'know, efforts to bury distribution infrastructure so it's less prone to trees falling on it. That might be worth it. An all-electric future shouldn't be scary. Your life is already, like, 95% electric. Yes, those four appliances gas can power are important - especially your heat. But I'll bet you've woken up to your heat A furnace is still a single-point-of-failure, after all. And there's so much progress we can make Batteries get cheaper, smaller, and lighter, heat pumps get more efficient, generation gets cleaner and cheaper, and countless new innovations arrive every year Meanwhile, gas is just gas. We've already done about all we can with it, The writing's on the wall. If you've made it this far, thanks very much for watching. I hope these two videos have helped you see thanks to how flexible electricity is, it doesn't We're in the early days of the transition, of course, and there's a lot that we'll be learning in a short period of time, But I'm certain we'll get there - and probably sooner than you might imagine. astoundingly smooth jazz But here's a simpler idea: sharing. Right now, general pract - I don't like how that went. Gonna restart. But, they're not the only way to meet the goal of spreading elecTRICK deman -- elecTRICK demand. While they are cool, [brain.exe is not responding] Oh! Oh, that's a clunkier sentence than I realized. If you're rural, you're probably using Don't change the words in the script! Provide you with a combination heat and light [click click click click] I ho - was hoping this would go smoother. [FWOOMP] there we go! Isn't a heat pump water heater like the coolest thing you've ever heard of? Like, I know I'm a nerd who likes any good heat pump, but the fact that it'll just gobble up the energy around it is fascinating. Plus, it means that any heat that leaks out through the insulation - Neat. Very neat.