The Black Death surged unstoppably throughout excruciating ways within days of infection. Almost no one who caught it stood a chance. By the time it was done, about a third of So how did this deadly widespread contagion Europe in 1347: famines, tuberculosis, smallpox, like the least common way for anyone to die Even giving birth gave you good odds of ending In this time of generally widespread disease a plague which would outdo all the other plagues Of course, Europeans had heard of the "Great Middle East and Asia. However, in a situation that thankfully would on about their business hoping the problem And yet one day, undeterred by state lines, 12 ships from the Black Sea docked in the working on the docks went to greet the sailors That's when they noticed something odd. Most of the sailors were dead, and the few black boils hemorrhaging blood and pus. No one knew exactly what was going on, but as far away from Messina as possible seemed To where, they didn't really care. Sicilian authorities told the "death ships" Unfortunately, it was already too late. Not only was the bubonic plague one of the man, and thus had probably already spread had with the sailors; the flea-ridden rats already abandoned ship. Scurrying their way right into the cobblestone From Messina, the plague spread through Italy, the year. Even in a time of such slow, arduous travel, with unimaginable force and speed. Between 1346 and 1353, the Black Death killed than any other singular event in history. It killed 25 million people in Europe in a of its spread, is estimated to have destroyed Keep in mind, this was during a time when to be around 380 million. Some estimates even put the Plague's total and global population estimates higher as However, even the minimum death count is horrifying It took 200 years for the world to rebuild We assume part of the reason for the lengthy humans and death all around you for years But for the world population to bounce back So how did it? Did it just run its course? Or did people start getting better at stopping The answer is actually nuanced, as most scientific self-diagnosis via WebMD may tell you. Many experts have an explanation they favor ended as a result of a combination of factors. First of all, the extreme deadliness of the undoing. The disease killed so many people so quickly, When the bubonic plague struck a person, they Symptoms included fevers of 100 to 106 degrees vomiting, severe joint pain, and headaches. The most unique symptoms to the plague were egg-shaped boils that oozed pus and blood. Charming. People who fell ill usually became confined days. Over 80% of all those infected, died. Thus the odds once you caught the disease This is why highly deadly pathogens have a A disease that kills so many so fast eventually therefore, surviving. At some point, there were literally just not a population to work through. Especially when people wised up to the fact them survive. See, the second reason the plague ended was transmission. Doctors initially had no good advice to give This was a previously unknown disease, and helped depression. Unless Gwyneth Paltrow is your medical professional, and treatment these days. For an example of doctors' opinions about stated his belief that, "instantaneous death the eyes of the sick man strikes the healthy He wasn't exactly wrong [emphasis] about fact that the bubonic plague could be spread But his reasoning as to how and why was...[pause]...suspect. However, despite the horrific state of medicine the more they came into contact with others, deadly new disease. So people started escaping the big, dense However, the plague, carried by fleas on rats well. So more stringent measures were taken. Storeowners closed up shops and stayed home. Priests wouldn't administer last rites. Doctors refused to see patients; given our the best. And cremation became extremely popular in bodies, and also save space as corpses quickly Tragically, people were even forced to leave to have a shot at escaping the plague. Thomas Mockaitis, a history professor at DePaul real understanding of how to fight it other That's why in Italy, where the disease had a new practice. In the Venetian-controlled port city of Ragusa, in isolation for 30 days. Eventually, the isolation period increased This led to the origin of our current word with: "quarantine". The practice worked, as incoming cases of Even with quarantine procedures, however, transmitting the disease? These two animals still carried the bacteria, Well, most European cities decided that greatly help in this regard - as it does in most regards, It turns out the cleaner a place is, the less most students discover after freshman year People also strived to improve their personal at bay. Again, we're unsure why this wasn't a to wash their hair more than once a month mass death of the plague. So the deadliness of the plague itself, combined helped curb the spread of the Black Death. What was the final factor that put a stop In 2010, researchers collected DNA from mass that the DNA of the bacteria was vastly different It was a far deadlier strain of the disease. As we said before, highly fatal pathogens in order to keep their own reproduction going. So the evolution of bacterial DNA helped lessen not the only way DNA transformation helped It turns out, human DNA mutations also helped Apparently, a certain DNA mutation that has humans today first appeared in a widespread The most likely reason? "A widespread fatal epidemic". The disease didn't cause the mutation; it it, leading more of those with [emphasis] A combination of all these factors stopped Unfortunately, people at the time also tried and horrifying ways. Many believed the plague was, in fact, God Therefore, they would have to demonstrate escape this curse. For some reason, some believed the best way they deemed sinful or heretic. When these people asked themselves "what was massacring large groups of people, especially Demonstrating that they clearly missed the Other less terrifying but equally ineffective to bathe in rosewater or vinegar to help cleanse This worked about as well as anyone would Turns out rosewater does little to stop bacteria Though the Black Death peaked in the years after that. Smaller outbreaks would resurge for hundreds the Great Plague of London in 1665. Some believe the Great Fire of London in 1666 as it burned many of the rats and fleas carrying dispute that story. However, this last big iteration of the disease rhyme "ring-a-ring of roses". Londoners thought holding a posy of flowers the plague. This explains the lyrics "a pocket full "A tissue, a tissue, we all fall down" then dropping dead. The original lyrics, in fact, were, "we In case you needed further proof that the and rhymes were all deranged. Today, the bacteria that caused the Black with antibiotics. About 7 cases of bubonic plague are reported 3,000 worldwide, mostly on the African continent. Meaning you have a higher chance of dying days. And now that we know how the Black Death ended through the world again, why not click on