- I'm currently 3000 feet above the ground with no parachute. But you know what? I don't give a (beep). Do you care? - Don't care. - Yeah, I don't care. Every day, hundreds of millions of people suffer from giving too many (beep). They spend their lives in and unnecessary concerns. But it doesn't have to be that way. In this video, I'm going to walk you of non (beep) giving. Each level demonstrating more You will learn step by step how to stop worrying and how to achieve the eternal But it's not enough to simply you have to live it. You have to embody your non fuckery. So to illustrate each I flew out to Atlanta and Now, Garrett had specifically told me that he gave too many fucks in his life, and so I enlisted his best friend Alex. And together, we pushed him through five that purged him of all In the beginning, he was meek and shy, but by the end, I had him asking out models, and of course, dressing Let's get your beaks ready In psychology, there's something known Now, the spotlight effect says that people are paying than they actually are. Think back to the last time Chances are you walked around all day assuming that everybody was staring at that tragedy of a mop on your head. But the reality was most And if they noticed, One of my favorite quotes ever comes from the author He said that &quot;You will what other people think about you when you realize how seldom they do.&quot; As someone who grew up with this idea was absolutely profound to me. But the problem is the idea You have to get out into You have to get out and challenge Now, does that mean you have and walk down the Venice Boardwalk? No, of course not. But it does mean you have to do something. You have to challenge yourself. You have to put yourself into public and into uncomfortable situations and prove to yourself conclusively that nobody's paying attention This is what I did with Garrett, and I guarantee you he hated Tolerating embarrassment is the bedrock of not giving a fuck, so I had my team design and Garrett's challenge was to The goal, to destroy his - The fact that he actually believes that kind of stuff too is dope. - I don't like at all. - That would be easy for him. - Just share the good news, man. - You got this. - You ready? (upbeat music) - Right there. Right there. - No. - Chicken shit. Chicken shit. Chicken shit, yo. - Yeah. There you go. - I'm good. Thank you. Hey, excuse me. You good? (both laughing) - You know what he should do? He should hand it to them &quot;Nah, I don't think - You're not worthy. - You're not ready for this. - You're not ready for all this science. - Science. - There you are. This is the - I got you. - Most people, once Garrett got over his it turned out he was pretty good. - I'm just gonna hand There you are. - Hey, do you want one? There you go. Thank you, man. - Objectively, why would it benefit anyone to lie above the earth's size? - That's smart. Cool. Thank you, man. I appreciate it. - Surveys show that the one thing that people are more afraid of than death is public humiliation. - Run after her, dude. (laughing) That's so fucking creepy. - You good? Sure? - I gotta give him credit. - No, I mean... - He's got balls. He's doing it. - Hey, how are you guys? - How you doing? - Good. Sick cap by the way, I like that. There you go. - Oh, two more for the (both laughing) - Part of not giving a fuck is overcoming that Training yourself. You're not gonna die. If you embarrass yourself, the crowd doesn't want nothing's gonna happen. You know why? 'Cause nobody's Everybody is busy thinking and worrying about themselves. They don't care what you're doing. - I'm just gonna hand it - I believe flat earth- - All right, I'm gonna Hey, Garrett. Time out. First of all, you're crushing it. - Really? - You're killing, like- - All right, so you still got... - Yeah, I got a lot left. All right. I'll make a deal with you. This video is sponsored. If - Yeah. - We can throw half those away. - Deal. - [Mark] This video is A fitness coach that goes wherever you go. So to prove that point, I made Garrett work out - CoPilot is a fitness made easy. - Sorry, I'm bad at this. Okay. - When you sign up for CoPilot, you are assigned a personal fitness coach. Your trainer creates based on your individual needs or goals. - [Mark] Best of all, your and keeps you on track and accountable. You can use CoPilot at home, at the gym... - Or even in public. (chuckles) - Oh, hi. - Let me see the paperwork and manual. - Sorry. We can go outside. With CoPilot, you never have to worry if - Your CoPilot coach figures out and plans everything for you. By now, you've probably noticed how fucking hot and This is partly due to CoPilot. So sign up for CoPilot today, so you too can be fucking hot and ripped. Oh, and healthy too. - Click the link in the description to get your free 14-day trial to CoPilot and get your first consultation today. Good job, man. - If the willingness to look like an idiot is the bedrock of not giving a fuck, the next step is to be And what better rejection It's one thing to not but what about people Are you willing to say things that your friends and Are you comfortable having Are you afraid to embarrass Wait, wait, wait. Oh, shit, no. (laughing) This is so ridiculous. Most of us tie up our self-esteem and our romantic successes and failures. I'm just like constantly That way. No, your feet that way. But that's why I made Garrett go on dates with 10 professional models while asking them the most awkward and uncomfortable questions possible. - I think we nailed that. - Yay. - If you had to compare your what would it be? - Wow. - Ladies first. Asian food out there is. That's my sex life. - Oh, yeah. Always. - Damn spicy. Just being honest. (laughing) - Yeah, I like that. That's a good answer. honesty is key, you know. - Damn, this is a question - What comes to the top of There's gotta be something. but that could go wrong though. - Sushi. 'cause... - That's the first thing, my bad. - You don't wanna bring raw fish. - I know, I know, I know. That's what I'm saying. That's why I didn't wanna say This is card. What do people most often - Ooh, that's a very good question. - Uh. Hmm. That I can be mean. (chuckles) I'm usually nice all the time, honestly. I'm very open and honest. - Really? So people think, wow. - Yeah. I don't know what people most - These are really- - Do I need to answer (all laughing) - Is it that you're actually not shy and that you're actually... - Yeah, maybe that's what it is, like... - No, no. Come on. (all laughing) - I am really sorry. - So I have to interrupt for just a second to explain something. There are two ways to Performance and authenticity. People like Garrett who they tend to see the relationships They view every social situation in terms of &quot;What do I say or And then they try to say or do that. - Did you play any sports? - I personally train - Really? - I actually have a friend that does something similar to that. - This is a terrible way to The first is just that I mean, every social interaction basically becomes like an exam at school where you have to say and to get the result. But the real reason is that it prevents you from in the first place. Even if you do perform in the right way and get people to like you, you will never fully trust What comes after that? Oh, that's it, right? - [Cameraman] That was it. - Whatever. (laughing) Once you've been rejected you realize there's no and no reason to be afraid of criticism. The big breakthrough for most people comes when they finally drop the performance and embrace authenticity. Authenticity Because of performance guarantees that you're gonna you might as well get rejected This is what happens when you start approaching by being unapologetic in who you are and living with the results. By realizing that you for people to choose you, you can also choose them. Hey there, Duckie. (chuckles) How are you? Garrett seemed to start to understand this about halfway through his he started to realize he didn't have to make In fact, he can decide and this simple switch changed everything. - Tell her what you find - Oh, wow. Okay. - Let's see. I don't really know you though. I feel like your most is like internally. - Oh. - Okay. - You seem like a really genuine person. - I'll definitely take that. What's the craziest place (both laughing) - There we go. - I'm a boring girl. But that leaves room for improvement so... - Valid. That's valid. What kind of porn do you like to watch? - Lesbian. - Lesbian? - That was quick. You didn't - No. I think there's about two women together. - With heterosexual sex, it's so much about like penetration. And I feel like with women, it's a more like central experience. - [Garrett] Yeah. - So that's why I like watching it more. - What's your biggest irrational fear? - Getting into a fight with - Getting into a fight with a giraffe. - Too many spots? - No, it's the height. (both laughing) - Dude, he's killing it. - I like you. I gotta Is that okay? - I'll have to grab your number then. - Yeah. - Well, we could definitely carry on this conversation if you like. - Okay, I like that. It was a pleasure meeting you. - It's been delightful. - It has been delightful. - Goodbye. - You're cool as a cucumber now. - Really? - You're only mildly awkward. (upbeat music) - Something incredible happens about other people's opinions about you. It gives you the freedom to fail. All those things you've all those adventures you've dreamed of but been too scared to pursue, it all suddenly opens up to you, because the people who aren't there anymore. - Yo. - Welcome. All right. You ready for this? - Yeah. What is this? So he's gonna teach and then we're gonna and you're gonna show off your (Alex laughing) You ever break dance before? - No. Never. - [Mark] You ever danced before? - Yeah, it's not break dancing. - Most people are afraid because they don't wanna But the fact of the matter is, you can't be good at something until you're terrible at it first. - The first one can be a The arms front. So then you're gonna more like across from you. Boom, then we'll go back, - Most of us are two results-oriented and not enough process-oriented, and I think a lot of this comes You grow up and you're rewarded or getting a gold star at the activity. Everything is about &quot;Can And then we will reward you.&quot; - Oh, there you go. He's doing the whole thing, boom. Boom. Six steps. Is like this. - But the fact of the matter is life doesn't actually work that way. In fact, in many ways, life life rewards the person who is willing to embarrass who's willing to take some risks. - There you go. Can't be scared to go to - Garrett is a bonafide perfectionist. He's one of those people who unless he knows he can do it perfectly and so step four is to get To show him that there's a joy of improving, of So I ask you, what are you What are you more than because it brings so If you can't answer that easily, well, then that's probably - You're gonna be ready? - Be ready. Thank you, man. - I appreciate it. Feel your eyes, they all over me Don't be shy, take control of me Get the vibe, it's Baby girl, yuh a carry Gimme some a dat Mixed wid di badness, look how she hot Shaped like goddess, but a nah jus dat Is a good piece a mentals under di cap - That night in the nightclub, as Garrett danced the I realized that he was the sweet, sweet internal freedom that comes from not giving a fuck. That he felt zero pressure, zero regret. He wanted to dance, so he went and danced. No lie, gyal yuh never miss Feel your eyes, they're all over me Don't be shy, take control of me Get the vibe, it's Gyal yuh never miss, gyal (upbeat music) Congratulations. We've made it, my Undeterred by embarrassment, rejection, ridicule or failure, we have achieved the perfect Welcome to the zero fucks zone. Up until this point, I've been to embarrass himself But what if we turn that around? What if we took Garrett's his surmounting of his and used his newfound superpower to help others overcome their doubts and insecurities as well? After all, emotions are contagious, and once we've liberated ourselves from our imagined constraints, it's our moral duty to help liberate other people from theirs. So I brought Garrett back and challenged him to convince a stranger to go skydiving with us. But you have to do it - What? Are you... Okay. - And while he suited up, I wondered just how different compared to the first challenge. Here we go. - You guys wanna go skydiving? No? Do you guys wanna go skydiving? - No. Thank you. You guys wanna go skydiving? - Interesting, but no. - You wanna go skydiving? - No. - [Mark] I was impressed It was a stark contrast when it took him 10 minutes to even get close to approaching someone - Chicken shit yow. - Y'all wanna go skydiving? - No, thank you though. - [Mark] Now he really was chicken shit and he was completely okay with it. - Morgan, it's a chicken. - After getting shut we took a break, and then this happened. - We do love skydiving. - I've never been. - [Lady In Dress] I'm not ready for this. - Hey brother, I'm not ready either. - [Guy] I'm not ready, buddy. - I'm in a chicken soup - I'll go if you go. - [Mark] Are you guys in? - Yeah, I'll go. - Yes, let's go. - Quick side note, it turns out that Garrett is absolutely terrified of heights. The dude never told me. So while he killed the the fact that he had to well, I thought he was gonna (upbeat music) White man came across the sea He brought us pain and misery Look, you and everyone you So what the fuck are you waiting for? That goal you have, that that person you wanna meet. What are you letting stop you? Go do it. Because seriously, who gives a fuck? Run to the hills Run for your lives Run to the hills Run for your lives (upbeat music) You did it, dude. - Woo.