Russian history is iconic, whether it is the or the tyranny of Ivan the Terrible. Despite this, the earliest origins of this In this series, we will go back to a time A time of mighty Viking Princes, hardy Slavic Welcome to our documentary on where it all Rus. Ancient Rus merchants had access to a vast among them didn't have a way to get the The sponsor of our video Bokksu can give you Bokksu partners up with authentic Japanese over 100 years, creating a unique product Trust us, we have been absolutely demolishing snack has been specifically crafted by the more than the sum of its parts. We have been sharing the snacks with our friends is a great gift for your loved ones. You get new snacks every month - salty, are covered. This month's box is called and is all about your home. We can definitely recommend you try Fujiya's Tochiotome Strawberry - both are full of Get Bokksu for yourself and your loved ones Bokksu has a special offer for our viewers: in the description to get 10% off and save box from Bokksu! Don't miss out on this amazing snack journey Ancient Rus merchants had access to a vast among them didn't have a way to get the The sponsor of our video Bokksu can give you Bokksu partners up with authentic Japanese over 100 years, creating a unique product Trust us, we have been absolutely demolishing snack has been specifically crafted by the more than the sum of its parts. We have been sharing the snacks with our friends is a great gift for your loved ones. You get new snacks every month - salty, are covered. This month's box is called Seasons of Japan each season. We can definitely recommend you try White are full of sweet goodness! Get Bokksu for yourself and your loved ones Bokksu has a special offer for our viewers: in the description to get 10% off and save box from Bokksu! Don't miss out on this amazing snack journey For millennia, the grassy plains of the Ukraine had been inhabited by a diverse cast of hardy and Volga rivers. The first written accounts of this land dates BC. During this time, the Steppe was dominated prominent being the Scythians and Sarmatians. The Ancient Greeks, who had a smattering of stories about the nomads lived to the north. Herodotus relates a tale that the Scythians and a Serpent-Woman. Meanwhile, the Sarmatians were known for the were considered a product of a mixing between More historically reliable accounts describe who lived and died upon the backs of their while enjoying the pleasures of psychoactive For centuries, their domination of the steppe the north, a young and ambitious tribe was These, of course, were the Slavs. The true origins of the Slavs are shrouded The earliest written accounts of their existence In the first century AD, the Senator and Historian a people who lived primarily along the Vistula Tacitus noted that they built homes, carried them from their nomadic Sarmatian neighbours. Dismissed as yet another barbarian people were most likely the progenitors of all of For centuries these Proto-Slavs were hemmed to the West, and Scytho-Sarmatians to the This changed between the 4th and 6th centuries and various Germanic peoples migrating into Empire. Broadly speaking, this enormous shift migration original homeland in all directions. By then the Venedi had diffused into numerous Some tribes crossed the Danube into Eastern in the Balkans and becoming the forebears Some tribes ventured westward into the domain There they carved a home for themselves and Slavs. Most important to our story are the tribes The Scythians and Sarmatians, who for centuries centuries of war with the Goths, Romans and The Proto-Slavs sunk their roots into this last remnants of these ancient peoples. While we know little of this eastern migration, Slavic peoples would continue to expand across Russia, intermixing with various clans of the ancestral cousins of Lithuanians, Latvians, By 750AD, the Eastern Slavs occupied land of the Black Sea. While they shared a common language and culture, divided into many tribes that operated on They tended to avoid the high ground, settling There they built Strongholds with enclosed an external ditch. These bastions were often surrounded by various livestock. Not much is known about the native religion to a pantheon of Gods resembling those of The most well attested to of these is Perun, lord of the sky. His eternal foe was Veles, ruler of the underworld, There were of course many other deities, embodying among other things. Pagan Slavs saw their Gods as tied intrinsically lived, and built their shrines in Oaken groves. It should be noted that early Slavic society writers, who looked upon their pagan forebears Nevertheless, some information can be parsed For example, the law of hospitality was the All guests were cherished without exception, traveler would be attacked by neighbouring War was not uncommon, both with the Balts They avoided pitched battles, instead fighting using short iron spears, heavy wooden shields, The lives of the early eastern Slavs was decentralized through the shared customs. Nonetheless, things were soon to change, as of dragon-headed longboats. At the turn of the 9th century, the Scandinavian In a cold, mountainous climate, good farmland This pushed the Norsemen to sail from their Generally speaking, the Danes went westwards, French as Vikings. The Swedes, however, ventured to the east, spanning down the continental mainland. By sailing down the crucial waterways of Eastern in the trade networks that had existed in At the confluence of the Kama and Volga they furs, wax and honey in exchange for silver. Occasionally they rowed further upriver and the steppe had granted them rule over an incredibly many Slavic tribes. Meanwhile, those who sailed up the Dnieper before long, the Eastern Roman capital of They called this splendorous place "Miklagard", In early June of 860, the Byzantine Emperor towards the frontline with the Abbasid Caliphate. The mighty Byzantine fleet also followed and only a small garrison remaining in Constantinople any attack. Chronicles describing the following events leadership of Varangian warlords Askold and Modern historians argue that the Rus knew already had developed relations with the Arab since the day of the departure of the emperor for the Arab intelligence to inform the Rus. The Greek sources mention 200 Rus ships, while The sources do not state the exact number average Viking ships of the era had the capacity board, depending on size, the conservative of 8000 men. Askold and Dir's men met no resistance as the unprotected suburbs of Constantinople. Many were killed and taken as hostages. Then the Rus fleet moved to the Marmara Sea Again the residents were slaughtered, monasteries, were plundered. The residents inside the walls were in fear There is no definitive conclusion regarding walls and capture Constantinople. As the Byzantine lacked forces to offer any called the city dwellers to pray to Holy Mary, her banner on the city walls. On 4 August 860, the Rus ended the siege, major spoils. The latter part of the description of the glorifying the emperor and the divine intervention, According to this version, Michael III quickly on the Rus attack and joined Patriarch Photius Mary banner, the storm which scattered the the withdrawal of Askald and Dir in panic. Photius does not mention anything regarding his writings, as these details were added The Romans were made to accept the Varangians with silks and wine. War and trade helped the Norsemen prosper, Of course, plying down the great rivers meant the Slavic territory. The Slavs called them "Varangians" or Norse words meaning "pledged companions" Initial interactions between them were hostile, exacting tribute and taking slaves to trade Within a few decades, the Scandinavians dominated well. It would be this intersection of cultures dynasty in Russian History, the Rurikids. Before we explain the rise of the Rurikids, history is known through The Primary Chronicle, While his works are considered the most valuable of his work is often called into question Still, the Primary Chronicle presents the tale will be the one presented by us. According to Nestor, the Slavs, Finns and masters at some point before 860AD, driving Evidently, the Norsemen had been something once they had been expelled, the Slavic tribes with themselves and their neighbours. The chronicle had this to say: "There was tribe. Discord thus ensued among them, and they began They said to themselves: 'let us seek a to the law'. They went overseas to the Varangian Russes, land is great and rich, but there is no order Come to reign and rule over us." The Prince invited by the Slavs was named Promptly accepting their offer, he settled Rurik established his capital on the Volkhov stronghold. His city soon grew to become a prosperous to the Slavs as Novgorod. For seventeen years, Prince Rurik worked to formal tributary rulership over the many native He died in 879, leaving his realm to his kinsman By all accounts, Oleg was the classic embodiment sought to expand his lands through conquest. To that end, he turned his gaze upon the great Ruling the crossroads of an international of the many tribes and religions in their In one of history's more peculiar twists, Among their tributary subjects were the majority For centuries the Khazars prospered in their Oleg, however, was not a foe to be trifled He had all the tribes of the north united of Norse, Finnic and Slavic warriors. According to Nestor, Oleg sailed his army of Smolensk and Lyubech en route. Before long, they arrived upon the wooded founded by Eastern Slavic migrants as early By the time of Oleg's arrival, Kiev was Norse Warlords Askold and Dir, who evidently on Byzantium back in 860. Oleg is said to have confronted his fellow "You are not princes, nor even of princely Askold and Dir were promptly slain, and Oleg He was quick to see the value of this town, position along the Dnieper River gave it the Oleg declared himself the Prince of Kiev, rule the rest of his realm. Soon he ventured on, wresting more Slavic By 885, the Prince had united the vast majority It is here that the Kievan Rus was born, a and grow to become among the most prosperous Kiev was its grand capital, from which the of the Rurikid dynasty. While 'Rus' originally referred to the all the tribes of the Kievan realm, whether as people of the Rus. Through fate and conquest, the Rurikid Princes the land of the Rus, retains to this day. The early Kievan Rus was in function a tributary tribes and towns, all under the suzerainty who was based in the prosperous trading city Each tribe within was ruled independently, armies to the Grand Prince in times of war. The tribes received protection from the Grand who kept order across the realm. Culturally, the Early Kievan state was an The Rurikid Princes and their druzhina were a skilled warrior from any origin could join The majority of peoples in Rus lands were language, from which modern Russian, Ukrainian Other peoples in the Kievan Rus included the the North, and likely some Turkic peoples Religion across the realm was a diverse spectrum: and Volos in their oaken groves, while the own pantheons of Thor, Odin and Loki. One of the most famous living accounts of traveller Ibn Fadlan, whose journey up the with a boisterous tribe of Varangian Norsemen. Fadlan watched in fascination and horror as in his longship alongside a slave girl, who The boat and all the precious personal belongings bonfire, and the souls within committed to This funerary practice was probably unique Scandinavian rites. However, it is a testament that some form of the Kievan realm. The Rurikid Princes remained fiercely warlike to become rich through plunder and tribute. To them, the ultimate prize would always be the Black Sea. To that end, they turned the dragonhead prows the place they simply called "The Great Norse raiders had failed to take Constantinople Rurikids, they could muster a larger and more The second Rus attack on Constantinople also do not directly mention anything regarding are in the early Russian sources, including According to the Laurentian and Hypatian redactions Oleg of Novgorod, who had been able to put including Chuds, Polyanians, Croats, Merians, Constantinople. Oleg's army consisted of 2000 ships each into the Black Sea, and an unknown number the Rus territories towards Constantinople. Thus, according to the Russian Primary Chronicle, cavalry. This is a truly astonishingly high number just consolidating at the time as a state The Novgorod Chronicle mentions 100-200 ships, a much more plausible figure. Then the Russian Primary Chronicle describes The Byzantine locked the Golden Horn strait passing into the Marmara Sea. Instead, Oleg and his men disembarked on the suburbs of the city, murdering and capturing any resistance from the imperial forces. The reason for lack of resistance is not described naval forces of the time, the Byzantine fleet After looting and pillaging, Oleg commanded to the ships, and ordered them to be moved The Byzantine became worried and asked Oleg exchange. Oleg accepted and his troops stopped. During the negotiations, the Byzantines offered fearing the poison. This certainly flared the tempers, and eventually, pay 12 gold pieces per each Rus soldier as Oleg's attack was concluded by a treaty reflected in the Byzantine sources. With that, Oleg returned home. Additionally, the Rus had won trading concessions the long term economic prosperity of the Kievan It is notable that the Rus ambassadors, who and Stemir, swore to uphold this agreement that Slavic and Norse customs had already Oleg died in 912, succeeded by Igor, the son The Young Prince was met with adversity at Troublesome Slavic Drevlians, refused to pay Igor, however, possessed the iron will of them in battle, imposing a harsher annual Having proven himself, Igor kept the peace Like his predecessors before him, he began In May of 941, Igor embarked on yet another according to the Russian historians, the Byzantines following the victorious raid of Oleg in 907 to that gained Oleg. The Khazar sources also mention that the Kievan as a clause of their agreement following the Sources differ on how big Igor's army and Russian chronicles refer to the Byzantine Hamartolos and mention a fantastic number Since the ordinary ships used by the Rus could army could have had 400k men, which is an The bishop Luitprand of Cremona, who visited Rus raid, wrote that the Rus had more than words of the witnesses. The Byzantine historian Leon Grammatikos writes plausible given the previous Rus raids and 10k army would fit in 250 Rus vessels, which Igor's fleet moved from Kyiv and in three it was joined by the fleet of the Rus, which as it was called by the Byzantines. Just like in the previous raids, the Kievan was fighting the Arab attacks against its But this time the Byzantine Empire was aware According to Basil the Younger, the Byzantine and Bulgarians, who enjoyed peaceful relations Rus raid. On the 11th of June the Rus reached the shores The sources do not mention any incidents of city, which happened during the previous raids. Some historians claim that it might be due might be enough for Emperor Romanus I to agree But instead Romanus I ordered to repair the and arm them with siphons, weapons spewing The command of some 15 old dromons was given He ordered his fleet to move to the Golden Igor ordered the Kievan fleet to advance towards old ships did not cause any concern to him. Once the Rus fleet was close to the Faros According to Luitprand, Igor ordered his men which might have been an attempt to use the Theophanes' ship continued to advance towards behind him. Rus' ships surrounded Theophanes and it was on them. Chaos ensued. Numerous Rus ships caught fire and Kievan from fire, but their heavy armour drowned The rest of Theophanes's fleet joined and While the majority of the Kievan fleet was the shallow waters on the shore of Anatolia, Captured Rus soldiers were publicly beheaded. From then on the remainder of the Rus army The Kievan army under Igor's command landed destroyed the village called Stenon. But Igor did not have enough men to develop The second part of the Rus army, the Tavric in the shallow waters on the shore of Bithynia. In the summer they landed and proceeded to the Greek fire attack. The Empire did not have an army in the region Tavric Rus. The Tavric Rus were able to move as far as were harassed by the units of Bardas Phocas pushed the Rus to the shore inflicting heavy The sources are quiet regarding the strength By September the Rus were running low on provisions ships and tried to escape the fleet of Theophanes. But again the Greek fire was too much for was destroyed. That would be the last Kievan Rus attack on Igor returned home and began mustering a far tribes of the Rus, and by 944 was ready to Hearing of the imminent arrival of this armada, more precious gifts in tribute, while offering It should be noted that both Rus-Byzantine stipulations, tariffs and customs laws. This emphasizes that the Rus Princes were However, the Prince's druzhina had long Igor to take more wealth from his subjects, tribute, and you will gain and so will we!" Igor agreed, and to that end, rode to the ever troublesome Drevlians. The Grand Prince had already collected tribute and his return for more made evident that They poured out of their city, killed the Igor was then executed in a gruesome fashion. The Kievan Princes' unceremonious death Olga. Despite being around 25 years old, Olga had as a fox. Her revenge, recorded in the Primary Chronicle, The Drevlians now had their own designs on of the Grand Prince, they sent envoys to Kiev, because he plundered us like a wolf. Our Princes are good and have preserved the So we come to you, requesting you to marry The Princess knew that marrying the Drevlian he would surely murder her infant son Sviatoslav, in her heart. Nevertheless, playing the role of the timid offer. The next day, she had the Drevlian emissaries the guise of honouring them, only to have buried alive. Olga followed up this ruthless deception with she claimed she would happily marry their honour guard of their best soldiers, so she princess. A contingent of elite warriors were sent to feigned hospitality, allowing them the honour When the honour guard entered the sauna to set aflame. Olga then travelled to Drevlian lands with Upon arrival, she managed to convince the guard were on their way and were not not in A great feast was held in her honour. As the sun set and the crowd grew drunk with over 5,000 Drevlian. Soon, Olga returned with a massive army to lands fell, until she reached their capital Knowing that cunning, not brute strength, olive branch of mercy:"At this time you request to make. Give me three pigeons and three sparrows from I do not wish to lay a heavy tribute on you The people of Korosten were overjoyed and Unfortunately for them, the fires of Olgas' She had her soldiers attach to each bird a tied to a fuse. When night fell, she ordered the fuses to Flying back over Korosten with their tailfeathers town aflame. Panicked and broken, the people of Korosten the walls by Olgas' soldiers, slaughtered Princess Olga proved to be more than just For many years after her annihilation of the respected head of state, ruling the Kievan She proactively built settlements in the northern tribute system, replacing it with a better An adept diplomat, she cultivated good relations of all being Eastern Rome. In the year 957, she sent off for Constantinople Constantine VII. There, she accepted the Christian Orthodox We don't know what Olgas' motivation was, economic gain. She made a piecemeal attempt to encourage built throughout her realm, but her subjects Whatever gains Christianity made were further ended, and the young firebrand Prince Sviatoslav In mannerism and dress, Sviatoslav resembled Scandinavian ancestors, the legacy of a hundred of their subjects. By all accounts, Sviatoslav's violent childhood He rejected his mother's faith, believing him the respect of the pagan warriors he rode Sviatoslavs' reign would be defined by constant, While his mother continued to run the realm's his days riding with his loyal Druzhina, raiding Sviatoslav and his warriors travelled without They lived rough off the land, taking what or by hunting wild game. In popular legend, he was compared to a snow quickly. The Young Prince's first target of major Lords. He and his warriors fanned out over the Eurasian the peoples of Khazaria submit themselves Sviatoslav employed Turkic mercenaries from combat to counter the equally skilled Khazar In 965, Rus warriors stormed and annihilated Sarkel and Kirch. This was functionally the end of the Khazars, never recover. The final death blow came in 969, when their A year prior to this, Eastern Roman envoys In return for a hefty tribute of 15,000 pounds in a joint invasion of the enemy of the Romans, Seeing an opportunity for wealth, war and tribute and mustered a 60,000 strong army Like his ancestors, he struck like a lightning of Bulgar Khan Boris II, and quickly conquering Emperor John Tzimiskes now realized he'd Sviatoslav was becoming far too powerful, in Bulgaria, but could pillage its way to Knowing that Kiev was largely undefended, Sviatoslav and lay siege to the city. The Pechenegs proved unscrupulous in the face the Kievan heartland, laying siege to the Now an elderly woman, Olga was nonetheless the Turkic horde until Sviatoslav could return to their steppe homeland. Olga died of illness soon after the siege, as Christian tradition demanded. In death, she was canonised as St. Olga, with To this day, she is revered by the Orthodox Meanwhile, the Romans, not content with poking won by the Rus in Bulgaria had to be surrendered had invaded Bulgaria on their behalf. Sviatoslav refused and launched an invasion Slavs, Magyars, and contingents of loyal Pechenegs The Rus coalition smashed against the gates counteroffensive at the battle of Arcadiopolis The Rurikid Prince was forced to retreat to Romans for 65 days, but cut off and surrounded, relinquishing his conquests. Fearing that the truce with Sviatoslav would the Pecheneg Khan, Kurya, to kill the Rus Sure enough, while attempting to cross the his retinue were beset upon by a hail of Turkic Sviatoslav was killed in the ambush, and according vessel for the Pecheneg Khan. Upon Prince Sviatoslav's demise in 972, The eldest - Yaropolk, ruled from the traditional The middle child, Oleg, ruled the rich land brought to heel by his grandmother Olga. Finally, the youngest of the three, Vladimir, The bastard son of a slave, he was overshadowed Each of them were under the influence of the For instance, Vladimir's domain was administered while Yaropolk's realm was run by one of Sveinaldr. With three puppeteered by ambitious men, the to be lit. According to legend, that spark came sometime into the land of the Drevlians on a hunting to know who had the nerve to poach game from Lyut introduced himself as the son of Sveinaldr, We can assume this was done at the behest Back in Kiev, Sveinaldr was furious about upon Yaropolk to make war upon Oleg. The Norse Regent was motivated both by vengeance, forest. Initially hesitant, Yaropolk was eventually his armies into Drevlian territory. Oleg's forces were handily crushed by Sveinaldr. The prince fled with his army to the town one another to get over the narrow drawbridge Yaropolk and Sveinaldr arrived a day later Oleg. Instead, the townsfolk pointed to their external It was revealed that in the panic, Oleg, like where he had drowned in the muddy waters below. According to legend, Yaropolk, ordered his mire and laid atop a clean rug. Weeping heavily, he addressed Sveinaldr. "Rejoice now, your wish is fulfilled." In Novgorod, Prince Vladimir received the Advised that Yaropolk would likely attack with his relative, King Haakon Sigurdsson. Taking advantage of this flight, Yaropolk seizing control of the entire Kievan Rus. Vladimir, however, was not idle in his exile. Proving charismatic, the youth recruited an to Novgorod with his Vikings, kicking out "Vladimir is marching against you. Prepare for war." Before his southward march, Vladimir wanted the Viking ruler of the Polotsk tribe, who The Prince sought a marriage with Ragnvald's as the latter claimed that she would never This rejection infuriated Vladimir and his slave in question. The prince gathered his Viking mercenaries Polotsk, slew Ragnvald and took Ragnhild by Vladimir then commenced his southwards campaign His armies soon overran the tribes of the to the town of Rodnia, pursued doggedly by On June 11th of 978, Yaropolk gave up the peace with his brother. Instead, he was cut down by Vladimir's Norse The interregnum was over, and Vladimir now Vladimir chose to commemorate his triumph in his realm, uniting his followers by erecting even Iranian gods on the hilltop above Kiev. Reportedly, the new Grand Prince was the archetypal He feasted and feuded freely, while indulging concubines, many of whom he'd seized forcefully He was even known to engage in bloody rituals Whether this portrait of a ruthless barbarian Christian chroniclers we may never know. Like his father, Vladimir spent a good chunk In 981, his armies seized much of Red Ruthenia, powerful Piast Kings of Poland. This would be the first conflict of significance Slavic cousins, but as many are aware, far In the following years, Vladimir would suppress and the Radimichians. He then turned his armies eastwards to the making them subservient to him. Still somewhat under the influence of his be reckoned with. Yet throughout his early successes, the specter We must now jump back in time, and discuss The conversion of Olga in the 950s had been to Christianity. However, the influence of the monotheistic surrounding Rus for decades before that. The Latins and Greeks of the Frankish and of the Persianized Abbasid Caliphate, were legacies. As such, formerly animist and pagan peoples began converting to their monotheistic faiths political world of these economic and cultural The Khazars had been among the first to follow Before their destruction at the hands of Prince Judaism, the oldest of the Abrahamic faiths. Meanwhile their neighbours, the Volga Bulgar closer ties to their crucial trading partners Christianity had begun making headway in the and Methodius, set out from their native Byzantium Slavic peoples. They travelled to the lands of Great Moravia, language, and created for it a written script Using their new alphabet as a cornerstone, into old Church Slavonic, which became their Now able to attend Church services in a tongue The Catholic rite eventually prevailed in elsewhere. The Danubian Bulgars had converted to Greek want to become too culturally dependent on As a result, they welcomed the disciples of the Slavonic church tongue over Byzantine which is one of the reasons why arguably Turkic Furthermore, the Bulgars streamlined the unwieldy alphabet named posthumously after Cyril. Prince Vladimir was slowly realizing that earlier, it had not been an admission of weakness, War brought glory to the Rus, but trade and The Princes of Kiev had maintained trade relations their ties with the wealthiest realms of Eurasia, Once more, it is Nestor's chronicle that In 987, the Grand Prince had envoys sent to and Greek Christianity, to choose which faith Vladimir was unimpressed by Judaism, pithily could be a model to follow. Islam did not make a great impression either, city of Baghdad, the Rus envoys learned about remarking: "there is no gladness among them; is not a good one." Upon learning that Islam prohibited the consumption is the joy of the Rus, we cannot exist without Meanwhile, the Rus emissaries who had travelled that their Churches were unimpressive, and Only in the Eastern Roman Empire did the envoys In Constantinople, they bore witness to the opulence of the Hagia Sophia. Upon their return, they said to their Prince: or on earth, nor such beauty, and we know Vladimir was sold upon the path of Byzantine was decided. Despite these colourful anecdotes, the real a matter of pragmatism. Of all the lands his envoys went to, Eastern the expeditions of Igor and Oleg had already with the Greeks. Therefore, Vladimir stood to gain more politically Christianity over Islam, Judaism, or the Latin The Grand Prince was still a warrior at heart, To that end, he marched southwards with his on the tip of the Crimea. From that position of power, he made a bold have learned that you have an unmarried sister, to Constantinople the very same as with Chersonesus." To the Eastern Romans, it was nigh unheard off to some marauding northern Barbarian. However, Basil was busy dealing with insurrection Bardas Phokas. He was in no position to open another front It was a decidedly better option to make an Thus, the Roman Emperor agreed to give up First, that Vladimir would send military aid second, that the Rus Prince would convert to do anyway. In 988, the deal was struck. Vladimir was baptized in Chersonesus, renouncing He then went home, returning the town to the True to his word, Vladimir sent a force of where they crushed Phokas' insurrection. So impressed were the Byzantines by these would become the principal honour guard of come. Meanwhile, Vladimir's first order of business and he managed that with little difficulty. Next, he smashed the idols upon the hills ten years prior. On every street of the capital, town criers man, woman and child was to come to the banks in a mass baptism. Some went willingly, while some were coerced Whatever the method, the people of Kiev were Originally distressed at being forced to marry came to see in herself a holy duty. Throughout her reign as Grand Princess, she for her husband, and founded several churches. The Slavs called her "Czarina," due to beloved among them. Indeed, Christianity soon spread beyond the the Rus realm. The Greeks loaned Vladimir many architects, to Perun, Veles and Stribog once stood. Meanwhile, the Danuabian Bulgars sent their The peoples of the Rus soon came to favour Slavonic was much more closely related to Greek. Along with Church Slavonic came the spread use in Russia and beyond today. This mass conversion was not entirely peaceful, In Novgorod, the elderly Dobrynya spread the However, he was attacked by a violent pagan his wife. In the end, the old regent forced the city Pockets of the Rus undoubtedly clung on to Vladimir's reign, all major cities and centers or force. The rest of Prince Vladimir's reign passed For nearly two decades, the Rus maintained The lone exception being the Turkic Pechenegs, Kievan lands. In response, Vladimir had a network of fortresses steppes to fend off their incursions. This would simply be the latest chapter of peoples on their periphery. In his later years, Vladimir was said to be In accordance with Christian precepts, he made efforts to travel to the more isolated of those who otherwise would never have gotten He passed away from natural causes in 1015 to the one he had inherited 30 years earlier. No longer was the Rus a land of warlords and It was now a veritable Christian Empire, competing Romans in economic and cultural influence. The Grand Prince Vladimir had had many wives, than others. The most ambitious of these sons was Sviatopolk, and a Greek Nun. Sviatopolk had never felt his father's love, a Polish Duke Boleslaw as a youth, and sent He had attempted to rebel against Vladimir However, he was soon released, and upon hearing it to Kiev to claim the throne, which he did Sviatopolk soon found that he did not have his half-brothers, Boris and Gleb, who ruled had always been the favourite children of resentment. Boris had always been assumed to be the heir took the capital, his boyars urged him to on the Kievan throne. The Prince of Rostov declined, and replied hateth his brother, he is a liar, be it not Now that my father has passed away, let him One would imagine that this would soothe the his boyars, who caught Boris, brutally stabbing According to legend, Boris knew his murderers accepting his fate to prevent bloodshed. The executors then caught up with Prince Gleb It would be Gleb's own cook, bribed heavily, For these murders, Sviatopolk would earn himself Like his uncle Yaropolk before him, Sviatopolk over the Kievan Realm. But just like Yaropolk, he had not accounted Prince who reigned there. Prince Yaroslav was one of the youngest children - the Polotsk Princess who Vladimir had taken The young Prince spent his early years cultivating maintaining relations with his relatives in Jarisleif the Lame, likely due to permanent his youth, an indication that he was experienced Indeed, Yaroslav wasn't afraid to assert reign, he had refused to pay tribute, and by Vladimir's death. Yaroslav was shrewd enough to realize that In a turn of events eerily similar to his the young Prince of Novgorod marched against Slavic levies and Viking mercenaries. Sviatopolk rallied his forces and hired a The two armies met near Lyubech. Neither side dared to cross the Dnieper, and At some point during the stand-off, Sviatopolk's and calling his men carpenters, not warriors: us a mansion!" Deeply angered, Yaroslavs' soldiers poured in a vicious melee. Yaroslav then marched into Kiev, declaring while Sviatopolk fled west. Sviatopolk had powerful allies in Poland, With Boleslaw' support, and German and returned, seizing Kiev and forcing Yaroslav A brutal civil war would continue for another in a battle at the Alta River in 1019. Sviatopolk died of illness while retreating declaring himself the Grand Prince of was a vastly different land to the one Gone was the loose tributary confederacy of Yaroslav knew he could not rule his realm a just monarch, ruling upon the pillars of The old ways of rugged pagan justice were Yaroslav oversaw the composition of the first The death penalty became rarer, and punishments and confiscation. The legal groundwork laid by Yaroslav would Russian Justice - and served as the basis Yaroslav also promoted literacy among his write, and appreciate the finer points of He built schools across his realm, and allocated which was an extremely costly endeavor at His reign saw the opening of the first Rus the largest cities in Europe, a hub of international of Constantinople and Baghdad. Despite this, Yaroslav's reign was still In 1024, his half-brother, Prince Mstislav to launch an invasion. While Mstislav was unable to breach the walls hinterlands around it, moving his power base doorstep. The Grand Prince retaliated, assisted by Norsemen fiercely at Chernigov, but was decisively As a result, Yaroslav was forced to relinquish to his Half-Brother. Thankfully, Yaroslav was soon able to turn relationship with Mstislav despite their recent Together, they launched a campaign against which had been conquered by King Boleslaw Yaroslav would later establish peace with his sister, Maria Dobroniega, to the Polish Relations between the most powerful nations stable for a time. Back in 1036, Mstislav had fallen sick while Taking advantage of his untimely demise, Yaroslav of the Rus realm; not that he had much time of Kiev stood as a monument of opulence, tempting riches. In 1036, it would be the traditional frenemies out of their steppelands to besiege the grand earlier. Yaroslav was in Novgorod when he heard the One can only imagine the fury he must have Enough was enough - the Pechenegs had been Yaroslav immediately rode south, forming an and a large contingent of Varangians, meeting two armies clashed. After a grueling struggle, the Turkic horde So decisive was this victory that from this as a significant player in Rus history. To commemorate his triumph, Prince Yaroslav jewel of Kiev: St. Sophia's cathedral. Yaroslav also undertook many outwards campaigns and Karelian Finns. At the end of his conquests, he had expanded turning it into a true Empire. On top of his military triumphs, the Grand of the Kievan Rus further than ever before On top of marrying his sister to the King Emperor Constantine IX's daughter Anastasia, to Henry I of France, Andrew I of Hungary, of Norway. These alliances enriched the Rus by deepening the Kievan Realm into the wider Christian However, as the Grand Prince grew old and realm. The elderly Yaroslav had seven sons, and he fight an endless string of civil wars. In an attempt to prevent this, Yaroslav divided one a piece of his realm to rule autonomously. In practice, his eldest son Iziaslav Yaroslavich Grand Prince, but in practice, he was equal Pereyaslav Novgorod, Volhyn, Smolensk and Yaroslav begged his sons to get along, and In 1054, he passed away, and the golden age The first existential threat to Rus unity the steppe. Yaroslav had crushed the Pechenegs, but all grasslands open for their fiercer, more numerous The Cumans were much like other Turkic peoples fault. The Rus called them Polovtsy, from the Slavic other etymological explanations. They called themselves Kipchaks, and the land By 1061 the Cumans had entered the Ponto-Caspian crushed the Rus armies of Kiev, Chernigov This allowed them to establish dominion over the Rus' access to the upper Don, Volga, had relied on for generations. After the battle, rebellions and civil wars forced Iziaslav to flee to Poland. A year later, he returned to Kiev with the finally killed in battle by his nephews. In theory, this shouldn't have crippled Turkic raiders and civil war were nothing Vladimir and Yaroslav had dealt with both of their realm. This time, however, there would be no great Other external factors led to the political Back in 1054, the Christian World was divided of Constantinople officially cut ties with the Rus sided with the patriarch. As a result, the trading ties that Yaroslav - the Latin World came to see the Rus as heretics. Byzantium was not the powerful ally it once In 1071, the Eastern Romans found themselves wars following a devastating invasion of Seljuk Between that, and the Cumans cutting off the of wealth into Rus lands decreased significantly. Overall, Rus was becoming increasingly isolated. The branches of the Rurikid family became the hub of international trade it once was, with regional interests rather than with the As Kiev declined, the functionally autonomous Novgorod, and Halych-Volhynia became the main This tide of fragmentation would be stymied Prince of the Kievan Rus. He managed to somewhat unite the increasingly in 1095, and even managed to briefly turn against one of their most powerful Khans, Monomakh's reign would prove the exception The reign of his son, Prince Mstislav Vladimirovich, wars with Cumans, Estonians, Lithuanians, By the time of his death in 1132, people still was that the unity of the Rus was dead. Despite all their troubles, their darkest It is the spring of the year 1223, in a small lower Dnieper. There, surrounded by his retainers, sits the a title that had long since ceased to have He looks upon a group of ten envoys, hardy, nomads in appearance. They demand the swift extradition of Cumans Mstislav scoffs. Who are these men to make demands of him, If these 'Mongols' wished to make trouble, With a flick of his hand, his Druzhina steps It was a dark time for the Rus, but little darker. The early stories of the Kievan Rus are almost the arrival of the Mongols. By the year 1223, the great horde of Genghis exploded out across central Asia, northern Brilliant generals Subutai and Jebe made the forcing them to flee into the lands of the Ignoring the Mongol warning not to interfere Prince made the fateful decision to side with execution of the envoys, changing the course The Cumans under Khan Khoten and the Rus host Chernigov Mstislav, Prince of Galicia Mstislav, forces and marched against the Mongols. On the 15th of May 1223 they arrived on Khortytsia Other sources find it tactically illogical and argue that the actual rallying point was The sources drastically differ on the number from 8 thousand to 80 thousand. The Mongols knew about the whereabouts of deliver the message that the Mongols did not the Cumans, who had inflicted so much suffering The Rus princes decided to kill the Mongol Yasa. Soon another group of Mongol envoys were sent, the sides would have to fight and it was not Soon the coalition forces became aware of Dnieper. Young prince Danilo rushed to view the Mongol armed and equipped and were relatively small Danilo informed the council of princes about The decision was made and the Prince of Galicia the Mongol outpost together with the Cuman The surprise attack completely overwhelmed massacred, while a small group together with towards the main group of the Mongol army. The leader of this group was a commander named being slain by hiding him in a Cuman kurgan. Historian Stephen Pow suggests based on circumstantial actually Jebe. The Cumans were able to find him and killed Rus were able to capture some of the Mongol them. At the time the Rus princes did not have any were made by a council. Despite the reservations of the Prince Mstislav Mongols. This pursuit went on for 8 or 9 days with leading it with the rest of the Galicians them, followed by the army of Chernigov and Mstislavovich in the rear. Finally the Mongol forces turned around and It is not known whether this was fleeing from bait to deceive the Rus-Cuman coalition into Mongols and creating an illusion of weakness It is also not entirely clear where the river Kalmius which flows into the Sea of Azov near For a few days the council of princes argued command they failed to come to an agreement would prove to be a serious blow for the Rus-Cuman The Mongol Army consisted of three groups the right flank, while Tsugir Khan and Teshi Brodniki. Brodnik means either "people of the ford" refers to the warriors that joined Subutai Caucasus. The Mongol soldiers were all cavalry with infantry. Subutai's cavalry units had 500 men with The first two rows consisted of heavy cavalryman The rear three rows consisted of light cavalry The Cuman army was made of almost entirely The Rus army also employed horse archers due with having heavily armoured cavalry akin The most elite troops would be separate bodyguard The Battle of Kalka river took place on 31 At first in the morning the Rus-Cuman emerged Army, which was significantly ahead of the the Bold and Danilo of Galicia and the Cumans it, while the Chernigov forces were still on the western shore of the river. Khan Khotan continued the pursuit forming forces right behind them. Mongol heavy cavalry attacked the Cuman army After that they attacked the Volhynians with cavalry attack. Prince Mstislav of Lutsk tried to help, but also defeated. Cumans and Volhynians had to flee the battlefield of Galicia was preparing his troops for the was still in the process of crossing Kalka. The fleeing coalition troops were followed The panic of the fleeing soldiers who ran panic among their midst. Mstislav of Galicians tried to offer resistance, disrupted, he was soon surrounded by the Mongol Soon they started fleeing under the furious Seeing the collapse of the Rus-Cuman army camp, which was hastily fortified with carts Tsugir Khan and Teshi Khan were ordered to Mongol army pursued the fleeing Rus princes Kievans were in a dire situation as the Mongols losses. They resisted until running out of drinking negotiated surrender with Mstislav of Kiev Kievans accepted, the siege was over, but many men, while imprisoning the princes and as a reprisal for killing their envoys. The exact number of losses on the sides is out of 10 of the Rus men returned from the Afterwards, Subutai returned back east. However, now the Mongols had intimate information Slavs, and as such, the disunited Principalities In 1227, the great Khan Genghis died and was Reinvigorated by new leadership, the Mongols Khwarazmian and Jin Empires. In 1235, Khan Ogedei convoked a quriltai that their next theatre of expansion was in and of course- the Rus. The invasion force that was mustered was led at Kalka River 12 years earlier, and the up By their side were many other grandsons of The reason for such a star-studded invasion Chagatai had warned: "There, at the end They are people who, when they become angry, The Mongols refused to underestimate the people In the autumn of 1236, a 100,000 man army consisting of an ethnic Mongolian core, and and Jurchens. This force was composed predominantly of nomadic siege engineers to bring the walled cities The great horde of Batu and Subutai set forth Rus - the Volga Bulgars and the Cumans, with - were put beneath the Mongol boot in less The Rus principalities were in a terrible As we covered in the last episode, they were Prince Mstislav III of Kiev had been influential to fight Subutai's initial expedition in But even this army had fought as separate that had cost him the battle. Thus, when Batu entered Rus lands, he saw but a row of dominoes, ready to fall one by In December of 1237, the Mongol horde reached outnumbered, resolved to mount resistance It took only 5 days for the city walls' The slaughter that followed was recorded in prose that reflects the horror of the age: monks, nuns and priests, some by fire, some They violated nuns and priests' wives, good and sisters'. It should be noted that Yuri Vsevolodovich, stood by and did nothing while Ryazan burned. While the ruling Prince of Ryazan was killed managed to escape, fleeing with his Druzhina contingent of the Mongol army led by Kolgen, It was here that Prince Yuri of Vladimir finally to rescue the fleeing Rus Noble. They made their stand at the town of Kolomna, However, in the fighting, Kolgen was struck His death would mark a watershed moment in Some historians postulate that Grand Prince and his surrender might have inspired other and destruction. Now that option was off the table, as the go unpunished. During early 1238, the Mongols campaigned Kievan Rus, committing numerous atrocities sacking of an irrelevant little town known The great city of Vladimir-Suzdal was attacked Yuri fled north, but was run down by a tumen more akin to a slaughter than a pitched battle. With his death, so too died the hope of any Realizing that, Batu Khan split his army up across the northern Rus. Over the next few months, fourteen cities murder and destruction. There were a few key components to the Mongols' building their settlements on high ground their sedentary cities made them easy targets Secondly, Chinese siege engineers used advanced bringing down the timber and earthwork walls Thirdly, and most importantly, was the constant So entangled were they by their rivalries, destroyed by the Mongols, only to be surprised To cope with this utter destruction, the Rus foe from the steppe, but as a supernatural Thusly said in the Chronicle of Novgorod: We always turn to evil, like swine ever wallowing And for this we receive every kind of punishment we accept at God's command, as punishment That is not to say that every living Slavic One such example is the tale of the 12-year-old all the odds managed to hold out in his capital only citizen militia, even managing to lead where they slaughtered thousands of Mongol down the sons of three Mongol commanders. But they could not delay the inevitable. Kozelsk soon fell, and Vasily was slaughtered Nevertheless, the child Princes' valiant that they came to call Kozelsk "the evil presence. Furthermore, Russian folktales are full of stymie the Mongol advance. One figure whose story emerged out of the Bogatyr whose story is the archetypal Rus Evpaty was visiting Chernigov when his hometown of 1237. Returning home to see his home a charred husk, against Batu Khan. Scrounging up a small army of 1,700 survivors, rearguard and annihilating thousands of Mongol In response, Batu Khan sent his relative Khostovrul Evpaty killed Khostovrul in single combat entire retinue in a blood-drunk fury, before As the tale goes, Batu Khan showed a begrudging a sign of respect, returned the warriors' return to their homes. In truth, stories like that of Prince Vasily Nevertheless, there is at least a kernel of against Mongol domination. After all, Kievan Rus was a nation founded believe that there were brave souls among the Mongols bleed for every inch of land they In the autumn of 1238, Batu withdrew to rest Rus. The grasslands of southern Russia, Ukraine, Black and Caspian seas remained untrampled Along the Dnieper's banks stood Kiev, the the mother of cities, an opulent memory of After a brief rest Batu Khan's campaign After subjugating the diverse peoples of the in the Caucasus, they turned towards the Rus. In March of 1239, the city of Pereyaslavl Chernigov was next. Unlike many others, the men of this city rallied in a pitched battle. Predictably, they were slaughtered. After this, the walls were breached, and the massacre. Thus, the gateway to Kiev was opened. The Mongols were fully aware of the cultural it had radiated for centuries. By this point, Kiev's Prince, Mikhail of Voivode, Dmytro, in charge of the defense. The Mongols had sent envoys demanding submission, of course, by now, we all know what that meant. After a brief detour to subdue the Iranian winter of 1240, crossing the frozen Dnieper The city's walls were quickly rendered into poured into the city. Brutal hand-to-hand street fighting occurred with his defenders to the Church of the Blessed its walls. As scores of terrified Kievans climbed onto from Mongol arrows, their collective weight to collapse and crush countless souls under By December 6th, the struggle was over, and In a rare act of clemency, Voivoide Dmytro bravery, but the rest of his city was not Of a total population of 50,000, all but 2,000 The city itself was put to the torch. Of some 40 significant landmarks in Kiev, Batu. For centuries since the reign of Prince Yaroslav, but the idea of a common culture and a common Now, with the mother of Rus cities a smoldering Kievan Rus was no more. After Batu Khan's campaign, the northern and while the South was not hit as hard, its been destroyed. Pockets of independent eastern Slavic resistance decade, particularly in the westernmost region former Kievan Rus was completely under Mongol The socio-cultural impact that the Mongol Slavic worlds cannot be understated. It would not be inaccurate to equate it to Germanic tribes. Before the Mongols, the cities of the Kievan the heirs of a once-united Empire rivaling Afterwards, it had all been reduced to smoldering once been, a conquered people living under to be the scourge of God. However, among all the wreckage and ruin, Mongol wrath. It was the oldest of the great Rus cities. We must rewind the clock a few centuries to to prominence as an autonomous power in the As you may recall from our previous episodes, founded by the Rurik around 860. Even after Rurik's successor Oleg moved The people of Novgorod had always been free-willed, the early 12th century, the old Northern Capital powers. Novgorod ruled over a prosperous trading Empire, hub of international commerce of government as it was not a hereditary monarchy, merchant-lords of Novgorod, backed by the of Pskov. Legislative power in Novgorod was controlled of nobles, clergy, merchants, and commoners. Novgorod still had a Prince, but he had to if necessary. That is not to say that the Novgorodian Princes In fact, a particular Prince would soon emerge leaders, and to many, the saviour of the Rus In the year 1220, a boy known as Alexander ruled Pereslavl and later, Vladimir. The young princeling likely spent his childhood It was probably due to this pedigree that and the city council elected him to be their charge of the city's military affairs. This was an incredibly tall order for a 16-year-old, To the east, the unstoppable horde of Batu and it would only be a matter of time before In the west, the situation was just as volatile, Christian powers had made headways into Northern The Vikings of Scandinavia abandoned their or less Christianized, which allowed them The Kingdom of Sweden, in particular, began is converting the pagans of the region to Swedish suzerainty over Finland. This expansion put Sweden on a collision course interests in Karelia. The Catholic and Orthodox Churches had finally Both sides desired land and power, and considered for war was brewing. According to the Chronicle of Novgorod, in Bishop of Finland Thomas sailed up the Gulf They then proceeded into Neva river with the from there, striking at the city of Novgorod As the story goes, Prince Alexander wasted the Swedish host on the Neva, decisively routing It should be noted that the battle at the and this has led some scholars to question the first place. However, most agree, it was likely an impromptu invasion. Whatever the case, the young Prince Alexander age of 19 and received his sobriquet: Nevsky. Alexander's success had made him some enemies of Novgorod, who believed that his war jeopardized Soon, the political situation deteriorated left the city. This was bad timing indeed, for the Swedes to take Novgorod territory. It is now we move our focus south to the dense Much like Finland and Karelia, this region Europe. The ancestors of the modern Lithuanians, Latvians, against German and Danish invaders, who sought By 1228, much of the Baltic shore had been Estonian coast, which became Danish. This land became known as Terra Mariana, the It was an unstable colonial frontier, divided the Pope in Rome, but still inhabited by Baltic through guerilla warfare. Throughout all this turmoil, a pair of Knightly In Latvia and its environs, the Livonian Brothers At the same time, directly to their south, against the Pagans of Old Prussia, establishing However, the balance of power was soon to In 1236, with the backing of the Papacy, the across the Daugava river to subdue and convert However, Lithuanian tribes took advantage the Knights, and annihilated their invasion So crushing was this defeat to the Brothers had to join the Teutonic Order. Now rebranded as the Livonian Order, they autonomous chapter of the Teutons and this upon the indigenous pagans. By 1240, the Livonian Knights had established and now they neighbored the Novgorod Republic. Once more, Catholic and Orthodox spheres of The council of Novgorod was initially divided Initially, Slavic merchants prospered as trading and intermarriage between the Rus and newcomer These ties to the west had been why Nevsky the Neva. After all, what merchant would allow a glory-seeking However, relations between east and west had Knights took Tartu, a city that Novgorod considered The Crusaders also ramped up their efforts to Latin Christianity, which irritated the of their society. As diplomacy deteriorated, the German Knights which, in their eyes, was a fair target as Around the year 1240, Pope Gregory IX finally Hoping that the Republic would be too preoccupied That same year, the Livonian knights stormed little resistance. They established a permanent garrison and which made it evident to the people of Novgorod Now in crisis mode, the veche of Novgorod begging him to return. Nevsky obliged, making haste for the northern By the time he arrived, the Crusaders had Pskov. In the hands of an occupying force, it was itself. Alexander knew that he had not a moment to back, storming Koporye's brand new castle In the spring of 1242, he joined with the into Pskov, retaking the city with little were preoccupied fighting the Mongols in Hungary Nevsky's swift military successes can likely elite warrior retinue that had been a staple Nevsky's force traveled light, taking towns a chance to respond, a manner of warfare akin Leopard, three centuries prior. Following these successes, Nevsky mustered limited numbers, and launched an offensive off into contingents to raid and pillage the This was a mistake, for he had overextended allies managed to ambush and destroy one of river crossing southwest of Tartu. Nevsky decided to cut his losses, and orchestrated Meanwhile, the Crusaders had been hastily Rus lands. Led by Bishop Hermann of Dorpat, it consisted contingent of Danish soldiers and native Baltic they began pursuing Aleksandr Nevsky northwards. The latter found out about this and retreated in Russian, waiting for the coalition forces Here we need to make a disclaimer about significant in connection with such essential issues as battle formations, and whether the ice played We know that the battle between Novgorod and however, historians still dispute whether or not. We will describe the most popular and accepted propagated by mainstream Russian historiography. We will also describe the accounts of primary According to the generally accepted account Nevsky was able to lure the overconfident armoured knights, onto the frozen surface Based on the expedition conducted by G.Karavayev took place near the modern Teploe Lake and of the old road to Pskov (via ice) and Novgorod The I Novgorod Chronicle also mentions the Here is the first point of dispute. Livonian Rhymed Chronicle, which was written the battle, by a German author can be considered of the battle. According to it, "many from both sides fell of ice. Historian Igor Kleinenberg claims the grass that it refers to reeds in the shallow waters The Laurentian Chronicle by the Orthodox monk states that the battle took place on the Lake, The second point of dispute is the numbers The problem is that the primary sources provide to discuss later, but nothing regarding the Hence, even Russian historians dispute the According to the Big Russian Encyclopedia, including 1000 knights and numerous Estonian Russian historians Scherbakov and Dzys claim and 1700-2000 for the Russians. A military historian Razin estimated 10-12k Novgorodian side. Strokov and Kirpichnikov propose around 30-35k Based on medieval warfare and battles where the British historian David Nicolle estimates and 5000 on the Novgorodian side. The third point of contention is the battle According to the accepted Russian historiography, board snout tactic. This tactic had the most experienced heavy formation, while the infantry consisting of The width of each row would be 10-12 cavalrymen Each row had cavalrymen protecting the flanks. This tactic aimed to attack the very center of the central ranks eventually leading to Nevsky's army had a more traditional formation center, and right flanks with archers in the Cavalry was placed in the flanks, while the The biggest difference is that cavalry was Nevsky somehow knew about the Crusader's with an aim to later encircle the narrow formation Nevsky himself waited in an ambush with a to the left flank of his army. The battle started with a barrage of arrows Livonian knights charged forward onto the It managed to push back the center consisting but ultimately it was able to keep its formation when Nevsky ordered his left and right flanks came out of the ambush and attacked the Crusaders' The Rus emerged victorious and chased the the frozen lake. Let us look at the primary sources again to described above. Livonian Rhymed Chronicle does not mention and the battle itself. It claims that the Novgorodians had many archers They attacked the Crusaders, who valiantly of the Rus proved to be decisive as they were The number is probably an exaggeration to Livonian Rhymed Chronicle mentions that "Twenty The Laurentian chronicle does not provide the Rus victory and capture of "many prisoners". The same with the Suzdal Chronicle, which chase across the ice for 8 kilometers. The I Novgorod Chronicle mentions that "the Rus driving themselves like a wedge through to the boar snout tactic. It also states that the Rus won the victory until the Subol shore of he Lake Peipus. In connection with the casualties, the chronicle number of Chuds, and of the Germans 400. They captured 50 and brought to Novgorod". None of the primary sources state anything And it is necessary to note that the information the Novgorod chronicle regarding the Crusader other, as it is possible that the Livonian only on the losses of Livonian knights, while all of the losses suffered by the whole enemy The rest of the battle details had been added that the details of the Battle of Wesenberg and the Livonian Order, were later incorporated Ice. This conflict, later immortalized as "the in the relationship between Medieval Rus and A permanent border between Novgorod and the Peipus and the Narva River, and never again ingress into Rus territories. For his victory, Alexander Nevsky earned immortality, as a saint who saved the Orthodox Christianity. Now, let us move back to the east, and address While all this Crusader business had been way through the Northeastern Rus Principalities. Nevsky's solution for the Mongol problem While other Rus cities mounted futile resistance preemptively capitulating before the Mongols Khans as his lawful overlords. Because Novgorod had surrendered so quickly that other influential Rus cities were subjected Why was Nevsky so willing to capitulate to the Crusaders tooth and nail? The answer was simple. To those who showed proper obedience, the They had no interest in influencing their system of government, so long as they paid Khans to confirm their leaders. Contrast this to the Crusaders, who had every Christianity, and one can begin to see why to a German Bishop. Nevsky spent the rest of his life as a loyal to the Mongol capitals of Sarai and Karakorum The ruler of Novgorod used his submission Indeed, the Mongol Khan bestowed upon him Of course, in the aftermath of the Mongol self, but the title itself still held significant Rus princes who now competed for the Khan's Alexander would only continue to grow more In 1252, his brother Andrey reigned as the However, when Khan Mongke ascended as ruler to Karakorum to have his Princeship confirmed. As a result, the Golden Horde launched a punitive of his lands and forcing him into exile in In his place, Nevsky was confirmed as the reward for his continued loyalty. Nevsky paid off the confidence the Mongols whenever the need arose. In 1259, when the citizenry of Novgorod revolted marched into the city with soldiers, forcing by force of arms. Nevsky died in 1263, taken by illness while homage to the Khan in Sarai. The Rus he left behind was a complex one. On one hand, invaders from the west were defeated, On the other, it had been utterly ravaged Empire. The legacies of St. Olga, Vladimir the Great, of their faith, culture, and identity they But as the various Rus Princes slowly reconsolidated of Mongol overlordship, it became clear that them, and a new era had begun in what would The new season in our series on the history subscribed and have pressed the bell button. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and