Okay. We're ready to get agenda. And I am really pleased to invite him, Mr. Peter Zeihan. Peter is an incredibly unique individual for those of experience his presentation we got a lot of great feedback the meaning of life, paperclips cost what they do when back again and doesn't in everybody want more. let's have him come out again in store for us. So, Hope you get as much from it for those of you who are new. without further ado, I'd like to welcome Peter Hey, everybody. It's no one ever brings me wanna feel comfortable. So it's always a little but this is the industry notorious for being So, let's just go ahead We're dealing with the end of a years. Here's the partial list. We're gonna talk about the you know, this is basically When you end a system, not everything makes Things look different. But everything changes. And the problem is is that assume that we're going back to And that's That's So my goal here today is spotlights on the things that And how some other things your life a little bit easier. And we can come back to some of to So anyway, let's start If the product that you that's what's going away. Internationalized Asia heavy trans Anything that is on this, you have to question whether We now are in a situation forty two months out. Most of those are probably And you need to If it comes on one of Roughly eighty percent of Mexico is on truck. And there's a number of reasons logistical point of view, but just for identifying Everything in that So there, that's You can go look at And make your Let's go ahead and jump I know you guys have seen least once. Right? No. No. Well, Okay. This is a standard You got children at the bottom, men on one side, mortality built And when you have a pyramidal There's a few common Number one, it's consumption driven because consume a lot. They're building or They're building homes. That spending drives Seventy percent in the But their workers don't have a lot of expertise. They have to import capital system comes from People who the kids have left paid down. And so in a high imports inflationary. This is Korean in the fifties Globalization meant that we could move off industrial jobs. And kids go from being free labor dumb So two generations on, Very different model. People aged forty to sixty They're capital rich, that pays for the tax base. But there aren't a lot of So you get a more that has to export locally to buy all the stuff. And the whole world has gone different speeds from But the point is this used to, this was always never And it ends this decade. Because everyone in the And later this decade, Italians, the Italians, will all age out of retirement heavy. And we have no idea what that of view. It's never happened Now, in the United States, Largely because we And this means that we're in but but still means some So number one, the largest generation largest worker group largest investment Half of them have already The rest will over and so we know capital costs so far, we're only So capital costs have about years. It's gonna triple again. Plan for that. Second, largest another way of saying And if you look at the kids that's our smallest generation Between the boomers leaving the we lost out of the workforce It'll be about that same And that number will increase before the annual shortfall thousand in roughly Then that number will but we don't expect it to start labor force in large numbers five. So higher higher borrow. These are the cheapest capital costs. We will have for at cases, two. Third, the quality of the incoming Now the boomers have dominated We think of their There is social the millennials are The incoming ones, the zoomers They're a little pathological. And they are not group workers. They don't wanna work anywhere person or the sky. Which makes it hard for you do. So again, labor is the cheapest and most it's going to be for hire everyone you can. And then finally, Technology as a sector First of all, scads of people in their have malleable minds, who are who can imagine the future, and then build that into a and bring it into That has been the millennials And they're aging out, turn forty four. We're starting to see the And it's it's delicious. But it also means that just doesn't exist in the And the second the uni for get to that mass manufacturer, You have to pay for and the money just So even if everything else we know we're entering into a next fifteen years. The pace of advancement That assumes that Here are the big four US is obviously the healthiest Notice how it goes down. It's a thirty year old and pros and cons of that what you're seeing is industrialization. They really didn't start the NAFTA one in the nineties. Now if they keep aging at we're gonna have a But in the meantime, when you've got a lot of and thirties who don't it's a much more And so Mexico became our year. It is a role they will There may be some In the twenty seventies. We got time to figure The Germans do not. The Germans are aging This was always going to industrial economy. It's not that they're That happened in the eighties. They're now running out If you get stuff from And then there's the Chinese. This was already one of historical record. And two months ago, the They've had a seventy percent just twenty seventeen. That tells me two China will cease to a coherent nation and the Han ethnicity will probably It could happen a lot faster the all the brainiacs the data, like, you know, we've over counted the population and these yellow bars Now that has obviously of complications Let's go through them. Let's This is vehicular They're down to forty Now obviously COVID but in the six months since they haven't picked up at all. Why? demographics. The people who are most likely to We're now discovering that years they've run out or you can look at Now whenever a country everybody wants the same four They want a refrigerator. typically AC, and The red line here is the You'll notice not only have they they peaked a year and Now if you think back in a lot of has gone down. We've had the Trump which was like living We had COVID, which even if everyone was being which no one was. China has disappeared into And the information that we either hasn't been there But now that COVID's behind us we're getting a kind of a look we're discovering in the we've hit a lot of turning In the case of China, They now say that the But as they're interpreting the they're discovering actually that They found out that the younger than the probably four years ago. Turns out that was probably India surpassed China to become year. That probably We're finally getting and we've missed China's peak. And it's not that It's we're already on the and it's only going Because if you have had birth rate, you are looking Now how do you get something consumption? Well, you've got Your first one's consumption That's Mexico. The second one That's Korea. And the third You basically throw money industrial plant, and that activity of the That has always been China's Most of it is driven by So the orange line the gray line is government Need to put this doesn't look very dramatic, let's look at corporate because Back at the beginning of six, that was already more Absolute terms than the entire and it then doubled. Second, this is So if the Chinese have been having that means the debt has been going So the absolute numbers are Third, the government debt. That's a bigger build than Trump, that's a And it's all local debt. You know, say what you will program. Is it responsible? No. But they have the Bail them out if they is backed by the the Federal Reserve can change the money You can't do that if it's Chicago. And so they've added ten and local debt in fifteen years, which is about three times what And then finally Now their household debt debt, but the crazy thing You guys been watching what's been Oh my god. Okay. So, We've all heard about them. The red circles are where no the orange circles are but no one has followed. Now two things from this. estate was paid for with It's owned outright. When you have an investment capital structure so much, ways to preserve and The Chinese government prevents abroad So they have to They usually go So for your average over eighty five percent of of real estate function. Here's the crazy part. The overbuild in subprime was three to four percent of States, and we The overbuild in China is They have enough spare condos to house somewhere between one and The market value of product It's probably ten to twenty percent So when this goes down, It's not so much that it's No, because it's not but it destroys the sum So on top of everything else you're looking at one point Billion people who are probably in the not too distant future. And that's assuming which there probably will be. What this is an So the green bars on the the red on the right you'll notice how conveniently It's about a fifty five hundred from the Persian Gulf Energy based on where you start Now this route is how everything is The coastal route. The Chinese have dozens interfere with that route. So if we get into a the Iranians or the Saudis offline and prices go up, there's not enough You get a roving naval war The tankers won't They'll take this longer route. China has a big navy, six But about two thirds of those Not at the same The point is they Only about eight to ten percent than a thousand and that that thousand going slow in a straight not that they're like The Chinese cannot They can't control They are utterly dependent upon freedom And so if we do get a shooting the entire transport The natural gas that liquidified form goes away. Their chemical sector And China will And since they import eighty to grow their own food, we also get a family that people within two years. Now, the Chinese government years ago. But over the functioning as a government system so thoroughly of anyone in order to prevent anyone potentially challenge him or replace he is so terrified the no one will bring As a result, the ability to collect data much has basically stopped. Now some of these things are Chinese just stopped collecting they didn't want everyone to they did their opening. We don't even have an But some of this We don't know what the status Patents, which supposedly you need The information is Bond purchases How the hell do you have a on offer and who That was supposedly how they investment led systems to have a But the ones that are more personal. Political biographies, college dissertations, because that's how young and move up. And G's made sure that they challenge him. So it's just him. Now my biggest criticism of Barack Obama is he believed the room and he would His first meeting and he got all the three He said, I'm smarter I can do your jobs Let's assume for the moment So You're gonna do and your own. No. No. No. Xi has done Decisions cannot be The reason he didn't show up because he was mad at the It's because he had to do who can make decisions. And I think the best way leading to a state collapse Now, I'm not a balloon expert. That's just not in my field. And neither is the But we had pretty much the over from Canada. I'm sure Canada It was like, shoot Let's see what we're looking mean, the balloon was Was dangling something It was like fourteen times the on here yesterday. Which, you know, is tiny So, I mean, it's obviously So let's shoot it The DOD and the CIA secretary and director I think mister president, please don't we're not threatened We really We know where it's going. It's gonna float over But mister president, unless you're planning on like firing next few days, those They're always closed, The Chinese will get photos away. We are not scared about there's an opportunity here. Because if you let this we'll put a spy and the spy plane above it and we will track over And we'll copy all We'll trace the signals information exchange network. We'll see which and we will trace it back not not to the building, not to the to the terminal And mister president, we have the best We will hack that of a terminal, and then we will trace map out their whole world. Mr. President the Chinese have handed us of the decade All you have to do is And then when it gets we'll shoot it down and we'll We now know the g was unaware of the it was shot down. He's that much in the dark. We now know that their ministry until it crossed into It was just some In the this is what Wolf This is how you stick We're seeing breakdowns like in every economic sector. The capacity of the Chinese information has stopped. This was the dumbest thing I last twenty years. And if you think back there has been so much dumb. This is what state failure So, yes, China ten years tops, but it can end so much. Faster. Let's talk credit. This is From the beginning of two middle, that's the We doubled total private It was too much. And we had a recession headline GDP because of it. Since then, we've but at something a lot Doesn't mean I think we have This is just to give us a five percent recession. Got it. Same data different Canadians. Now, you'll notice in the they were doing but a little bit lower. In the Canadians I would argue in the world. Good And then we had the And the Canadians did something Americans just had the We can totally have a dismantled all of the risk management they last thirty years, doubled down And their credit swelled, and it contributed to the Then they got to about twenty maybe we don't And they dialed it back. I'd say they're not but it looked better now Here are the Germans. If you're in Germany and You don't get your twenty bank for the other eighty. You tell the bank that you want So what you need to do is would be if we gave you on the first of the month. And then again the next month next month for Then we will talk about You have to prove that you're not There are problems A credit over build But it is in Greece. Seven fold increase of credit their economic adjustments down of GDP. They, I would had another twenty but then COVID happened Here is Australia. Now, one of the fun things is that the height of thousand seven The FDIC and the Federal Reserve chair all a bar in Washington. And over the course about a worked out the bare bones which was our restitution And that was the model that we And it said in a very American up, you lose. So whether you were the there were losses taken. The government money was only And if you made a It was something to stabilize not bail out individuals And broadly speaking it worked. Now the Australians And when they set They didn't call Every mortgage was backed Furthermore, they you could prove that you could hundred percent you automatically qualified And a third, and a fourth, They haven't had their do Oh my god. Here is Brazil. You ripped up about our politics. The fact that we might be Biden Trump showdown It's old hat for the And their candidates one guy was campaigning where he had been not not indicted convicted, And the other guy said that is they were just way The Nazi won the first round The I'd argue that Brazil has already Of lost time. Here's India Prime Minister Modi adopted the Australians did but you only one of his friends. And here are the Chinese. Let me adjust this for you. Are you kidding me? How Anyone thinks that China is a playground is beyond me. We of Enron in the eleventh hour. The question is when it I'm not really worried about it They can't really reach anyone. I'd be a little nervous. But I'm more worried about and we're starting to see the that's gonna look Let's start with the good. And that's courtesy When the Ukraine war started, every Western financial to Russian banks to zero. The Chinese flooded into And that meant that every whoa, that's like We should probably cut our And here we are, a year and the total exposure of banks is less than one percent That's a happy I'm also not not worried about Chinese because it's They build anything They import as which means that the The Chinese consumer is only of Chinese GDP, which is country today. It's not zero, but it's manageable. If you're in the Investment driven, building things So whether it's copper they are the world's often the world's And even if we have to rebuild the industrial plant we build in based on economics and build. We're not And so those sectors gonna Food's kind of in the middle. The Chinese are the every food product. Their diet has expanded massively And that is probably gonna The last thing a government is somehow take steps access to food. So of the things It's probably the and it'll be a little bit you know, we still need food. Tech's gonna be an issue. The Chinese are not Most of what they do and they bring in tech from industrial plant. And in they tend to be on the assembly advanced stuff come from Taiwan, That whole ecosystem is going to end. And there aren't enough fingers and on the scale we've And that's going to probably This is a document from The yellow arrows are year two So roughly a seventy inflation over the Everything is below that Everything above that line oversimplifying here, those are the things Health care, for There's no way around that. And everything below it is wall that beeps and whirs, and the Chinese are a critical The biggest hole we're gonna have complex supply chains in is going to have to find And we haven't developed a years. And we're that doesn't mean it's going to the many things we found technology that we've had in be used at scale. I think the best example I Back before NAFTA, most of our textile processing where it was done by hand. And then NAFTA happened and it was cheaper. And then and it all moved to China But with COVID, it And we still wanted clothes, so we had to figure And we discovered that if that's automated, with a staff of two, That one facility could produce cost per garment than You bring in the cotton, the machines turn it into turn it into cloth, cut it, even do some of the finishing. We would have never known Hopefully, we will figure things like But that means we need In an era of constrained scale in every We've started. The blue line is what happened About twenty twelve, that is when the majority this continent came from shale. And so we tripled our and it hasn't fallen the chemicals affected are It's actually the biggest build of the country. Faster The gray bar is kind it's sliding up. You'll notice that in it's picked up quite a bit. This is where we're This is electronics Now a lot of people are like, isn't this all the IRA That's some of it Can I spot right here, that's where the chips Act So all of this happened before. The industry, the industrial But we need that kind There will be winners in On the high end, if you need a lot of people in are really clever. And the greatest concentration of is the Colorado front range I know everybody thinks about They do have a lot they're all white. Arizona actually has a It doesn't have It has a bilingual Different problem. And so you're seeing these investment for that because they've space. It's not taking over And most of the people who in their thirties, and they That's where the concentration happens to be, and You wanna do automotive. You're looking at either the Now the Great Lake And so everything that has is going there. And we've seen that expand There's a lot of You can rehabilitate a It's actually relatively light carry The downside is they're not stuff, and they probably can't, but because there's This area has seen out the last thirty years. To stock a lot of new you go to the south. And so most of the foreign the new battery almost the EV construction But the place that is just the Texas triangle, because you've got almost About a third of whom have years tends to be younger They have a They can access that Houston has a foot in So all of the inputs that you need to do is already there. Now let's talk This is a population density the urban cores, the yellow And if you look north of dense urban core suburbs, small geographer, excuse me, that Rain makes farms, small towns make suburbs, South of the border, you Pros and cons. Pros It's oligarchic. There's no interaction among Physical interconnections So only a few families independence over Which means if you're an a partner, all you figure out who's in charge, introduce yourself. Two weeks later, you'll be A god child because you're And a fistful of signed rely upon because you have Biggest downside is once you gobbled up you're done. Mexicans are not mobile. In They don't move within their because the infrastructure And the cities stop and no intermingling at the edges and the texans have been And they have already gobbled the labor that was available, which means if we're going to we need to do and oh my we what we need to do. The northern section of the It's gotta be the center. The problem is that the support it. There I'll point the Those are the only three within the entire country. They just go south on and they don't And if the Northern we have to make it all the That's a thousand miles away. Which means we need to invest Mexican infrastructure in order to sixty million people who live And we have to do so in think that we're which is kind of what This is going to be touchy, but if we don't pull it off, we will not have the labor Because if we still want We need help to build it. We need a differentiated and the Mexicans are the only ones There are other players but we can't integrate with integrate with a neighbor. The Southeast Asian countries Thailand is the but it still has at The Indonesian and the the Vietnamese They've expanded their higher technical skills in mind. Forty percent of college grads They are attempting, and it looks like they're gonna China from a technological and they will probably achieve that There's also a geography On the left, you're looking at a vegetation map, basically, And when you think tropics, in mountains it's an expensive ugly business economies of scale, but there's pros and The con is that these countries another, like they haven't There's not a lot of bad blood. And that means that almost tropical agriculture. And if there's one thing agree on is it's that no In temperate zone agriculture, there's a there's a value chain You all by hand. You can get a You can get a spreader. And tropical fruits. Harvested transported by hand. You can't have a combine It's all unskilled labor. And so whenever people in they move out and and that means their cities are wildly overpopulated for And that means this is the for value added manufacturing. This is where we're gonna has and you're talking There are already more people there are in coastal China. They're probably the biggest winners but it will look different population density again. You'll notice that When you look at a more normal industrialized or you get your urban hub, and you've got threads settled going out to the And that allows for what supply chains because linked together tightly, you can move things back and That doesn't happen in Mexico. Combination thereof, And so each urban core one or two things. And that's it because to a complimentary system. So what we do in the United We send it across. They They send it back. We put They put in the seats, and it's going to And it's that back and But they can't do that at They have to have that partner. The Vietnamese do not. It's a much more traditional And so the Vietnamese can only thing they have to they can't make themselves, But you can have Vietnam for most of what we need, we're just gonna kinda add necessary to make it work. It's cheaper to it's seven thousand So we can't do the Two different models. Alright. Let's talk products. If you're at the top of this, you don't know who your your thirteenth. If you can probably fit your of a cocktail napkin after If you're on the left or you're already within the NAFTA you're dependent Couple examples, is made with American American workers, going ending up with an And that is not simple at all. Fourteen hundred supply ninety one percent of which The new iPhone just came You might wanna buy two point where this Here's everybody else. Gonna Automotive courtesy of NAFTA two. Over ninety percent of the North America are Don't mean to suggest we're but the core of it has network effects. That's not bad. the Europeans are of the belief parts and just That's not gonna The agents have figured out the manufacturing here. So they're probably north within North America, where most European Happy vehicles are gonna When you have globalization, it's very common for countries to encourage parts of the industrial especially if it's something without a lot of help. As big as they are, a forklift is actually simpler of the equipment and And since not everybody It's not like you're So the Chinese really So forklifts, dump trucks, construction We're gonna have a real problem but it is a relatively easy automotive at scale can also It's just a question of the like half of the stuff gonna make the numbers right. That's where I'm A successful electronics and of different labor price points plastic molding is not the pulls the wire or builds the polishes the lenses. That's a different step with different price point. And one of the many reasons good at this is you've within one extended market. And they can all specialize We don't have that in points. Us Mexico. That's it. And so we have to change The textiles example but I have no idea in hell how, because we haven't had But we're gonna have to. Real soon, and we probably gonna have because that's Alright. Here's where Not all semiconductors We all hear about the chip Administration wants to very specific kind of chip. The most advanced one ninety two percent of eight percent from South Korea. If every facility that is under States because of the chip we will be making less than It's a start. It's not huge. The Koreans and the Taiwanese have been Here's the problem. The Taiwanese manufacturer most of them. but most of the technology so is not Taiwanese. They just have the There's a coalition of over nine thousand Half of which only produce ends up in a You pull any of those The whole thing stops until We're gonna have to rebuild continue putting That's gonna take a decade. All it takes is one I'm personally most concerned about Now on the other extreme, you've got the dumb chips, This is your internet of the shower burst that sings Eighty percent of those and they can do that The other twenty percent is and the United States. Now if the Chinese were obviously the internet I would argue that's And we have the technology. We have the knowledge. We don't We just need a couple years The Mexicans are very interested The problem that they skills. If you ever have if you've got to make a lot of tell them to learn how to assemble And go down there and be going to be the single relationship for the And then everything in That's your car. That's your planes. That's That's smart meters. We're probably okay there Germany and Italy and Taiwan, even a little bit That looks okay. It's the high end I'm really worried chips, that's AI. All these server farms are scale? No. We're not gonna That's the iPhone. We're not That's electric vehicles. Electric vehicles have two to and they're all either the very We won't be able to sustain it and everything that comes this world can Here's your lives. Yeah. There's no way Order from everyone. Find away, counting on path of That's the biggest sticking point This doesn't look This is space the And replacing that at scale It's not just the manufacturer. The assembly requires a lot fingers and and there is no other country that space quickly. So we're talking about a not just capital intensive, and it is not clear where if that can happen with This stuff, we kinda That's weird. It's advancing but it's not advancing Do you guys need to do It's There's there's They keep inviting me Okay. There we go. Okay. The Now let me, this is the The United States is a weird very high end and very, We have a lot of elbow room. We have a lot of wood. And courtesy of we have a lot of things the world's most competitive. None of that's in danger. And this is the stuff that the The slower China breaks down, the more time we have to need to give you guys the But that means working with possible to build the the day that stuff from Oops. Here we go. My biggest block in there has That we just can't get And we might not find until the stuff We're not gonna have Okay. Uh-oh. All kinds of weird stuff Can you guys bounce There we go. Alright. I showed population density economic map on this side. The areas that are populated economically viable. It's Russia has weather. People The Russian strategy is expand out of the weather you hit a series of geographic And then forward position your between them. Ukraine is in the those access points, but it's on one in Poland. So whenever if they can win, they will move on to the five of which are in NATO. American Western foreign Prevent them from Now, Here we have the Ukrainian After independence in over a third of the population some of the lowest birth Another third of the population refugees, mostly So this is pre war data. We're very close to the point have the population dense city level infrastructure. So whether it is food or stuff transiting, Ukraine is not going to even if they win the war. There's another problem in My hair's falling apart here. It's a geological phenomenon You and you hit a layer But the top chunk melts in It is the most difficult mineral extraction. So the Russians have the cost to bring stuff online. You basically have to wait You run a berm out to You run a rail line or a and then you have a a when it's frozen because It's a very dynamic landscape open, everything just kind of Or maybe it drains down in single pit that opens, or maybe there's no aquifer. And the vegetation that's been starts to decompose, decomposing vegetable and the whole land buckles. Which means that the costs for any mineral Here's the problem. Russian population structure. Now about the time that people two thousand and four, that's when the Russians just started making it up. So you've got that big gouge post cold war birth rate fabricated data. There probably are only half as The Russian educational system eighty five. So we had a a collapse of the Which means that the youngest have technical skills at scale, they turn sixty two this year. The year before the Russians the life expectancy for the They already have the worst their population and their very close from simply The maintenance on the development on the Russian Russians for the most part. It's been done by P or Dutch and the Germans and all that So whether it's sanctions maintenance. We need to prepare that the world has become Palladium, platinum, oil, gas, even There's another angle to Now this guy, you can see where the top left. You guys off to the east and the south. The problem is this It's a population change map. The green zones are where roughly on pair with Florida And the red zones are equivalent to Detroit and has been for four decades. Almost all the raw materials that are not controlled by experiencing population growth but they're shipped through where the last bits of the in terminal decline. So you can add demographics to kiss the Russian Not to mention that this is unstable region in the not too One of the many reasons war is necessary is if they crustal defense used to then they can focus this demographic flip. They're fighting for time. they probably buy themselves If they fail, They're Alright. Let me take a Let me talk about this a little I think I even showed here, but, thermal power internal not all that complicated. You you capture the Can't do that with an green tech. The process transporting the energy, requires an order of materials. We're looking here at You can just see at a glance. And then here's the but for generation with conventional thermal We need three times as thirty. We need twenty We need ten times There isn't enough on the And the Russians are a top So They just it's it possible with for the world. There is one way it This is where all the stuff would consider to be part If we use our military, which which is recruited and And we go and conquer And we run a Belgian imperial And bring all of it home, then we can do the green Now this is not I'm just saying that this is the only And even that would not be to turn it into useless. You have to turn The red bars are the in either China or Russia. And even that's not enough, Here you're looking at the combined cycle plant. The siding, the building. The gray is the fuel, This is a model you're familiar The idea is it's a subscription That doesn't work for it's almost all up Capital costs have tripled. I think most of the plans ago assumed that there would point increase We've now gone up We have another The market can't support maybe sand down some edges, but we're gonna have to States, we really don't like what we want to focus on. Smart play would be to put not in Massachusetts, put wind turbines where and wire the power to but we're not gonna do Alright. Another matrix, you want the government If you're at the bottom, you think the government should way. If you're on the right, you want the government and if you're on your left, you think the government in people's wallets to get society in some way. And you can kind of combine the bottom right in you're kind of opposed to Because famine builds if you're at the top left you wanna bring all of together for a big party where Here are our The single biggest effect that a faction to prominence Most of the people who voted for president hadn't voted in A lot of different estimates but all of them are north They are now not simply the They've taken over the calling to these people, Trump ended up picking fights what People who are were the traditional the traditional He ejected them from He campaigned against their and he completely purged them They're not even present in the party now. And in But he was able to attract to his social conservative And a lot of people This is the Maga Coalition. This is the Republican This has lots of consequences. Let's focus on three. First, the unions are swing voters. That hasn't happened in We're entering a period where we the industrial plant. How many of those jobs do We have a labor shortage, and we will for at least We're gonna see the greatest union power in the history of the The business community are happened in the last And this is crazy the unions versus that is modern economics. Their discussions, their their negotiations, that is our economic policy And these people are right Part of the reason why economic and the Trump administration because there's no one in In fact, on both sides, they're kind of offended by able to do math The group that most fancies and the Biden administration Until such time as the unions in one coalition or the choices about where we need divorced from reality. And this is going to cycle. Now we will get through economically most capable, voting blocks on these topics political system. That's silly, but it's going to take time going to and the political very different on the of luck because not only will you not There isn't a logic to it. And that's just the environment when you're going to have No pressure. Okay. If you're looking left goes to the newsletter and I will never share your if you if if you if I would have paid for that. Whatever you think you would Medshare. They are a They provide medical assistance the ability to look after not their fault. if the Russians bomb your again last week in Ukraine, generators and How are we feeling? Okay. I'm gonna make the everybody. I have no But let's go ahead and do minutes for questions. So, I don't know if you wanna submitting online, but anyone you can ask without Let me go first. We we do have one that and it is way more fun if So feel free to But the one that came through it going to be to be States or have Latino organizations based on everything Yeah. So the, the Hispanic population let's be It's mostly The Mexican population in the growing demographic. It is It is the has seen an increase educational system And then of course it's Mexico proper. So It really the closer to the Southwest the bigger the this issue is, but it is gonna be an They're also the consumers couple things to keep in demographic that we have absorbed Spanish disappears from Mexican migrants, generations. That's One of the real weird cultural especially with Mexicans is a lot gringo as an aspiration, not as a pejorative. And if you ask a second They will probably say they're white. They see it as a cultural Now does that mean I Spanish skills? Not I'm saying it might not be border as you think it Spanish, Spanish, and let's be honest, the of Mexico is gonna be far more cost effective, and far more important than anything And based on demographics, it will be for at least So that is the future of part of your workforce. What allows you to do I would invest in it. I'm just saying you might not need it Hi. I'm Jumoonie from just so you know who's What what role do you think equations going forward? It's a it's a big It's Okay. So it probably isn't chips, the ten those are the ones we're And not have for about a structured environment that allows scale. Now they're but we're gonna have to choose Do we put into EVs? Do we put into power management there there's one of those for a house that also So that in theory is a bigger Or do we put them in Or do we put them Because we're not gonna We're gonna have enough probably And until we have we haven't made But the idea that we're to massive server farms with millions Now, with Chat GPT, we're seeing that this passed the operational stage. So The question is how long is pipeline? And I would say Daniel Sierra Burns at McDonald. So I guess you're talking about labor there. What happens after we per se? What's the next country all of this is very trying to do a lot with If we do succeed in central Mexico and the the way that the market seems It's gonna be the same When we gobbled up all roughly nineteen ninety. ground. We found out And we had to get better effectively. And that's when I would expect that we that in the United States, and then Mexico will go as they are forced to move Mexico over the last thirty added scale at a faster They're on average, I'd say twice as productive compensation is less than half skewing towards being amazing. This will just speed it up, Alright. Brandon Young, Question for you is education. Okay. Where are you seeing, where are you seeing trends going the younger generation one to roles like engineering, power utility? Yeah. About It's not gonna end in Two things. Number one, the the the type of work most price pressure It's a skill set expands And we're gonna have to do a For things that you would normally Relatively close to your gonna have to be a patch job. We're not gonna have the Second, you're probably all going to programs, not in high schools, To build your own inflow, for these jobs. Because a very strict and whoever gets their hooks into the the ones who then get And the time to start because we won't see We have to wait for the market. That's two And so you're all fighting children. Hi, Nelson Goes, IC Engineering Construction. So you you seem like you're you're bearish on China. Right? That that's a word So, and and to borrow your know, Russia is buying time for. Yeah, war. How do you view that kind of thought process applying to a fourteen trillion dollar and you're saying, they don't have enough adults So how do you see that playing towards Taiwan? And then it's, I because of the information it's impossible to know whether or attack because Xi There's no one phone you can Also, if the Chinese were even if they captured it in a matter They don't know how because they can't They use imported labor to do all of the wafers. And the ones in Taiwan are The ones in China are So if they got them, they and obviously that would remove us, but it wouldn't really And it would trigger the United States And it's not like we South China Sea or anything. We'd probably just put a couple Ocean Basin and cut the energy them to import the things they So China would be facing couple of years if they do I would say that this consider But again, g is now can't rule it out. All I can way or another Some country somewhere is gonna crack. I'm actually more concerned about Taiwan. But it would The Germans specifically make the of the lithography to happen. No lenses, no lithography, The, the hope because people seem to like is that there is lithography technology that is coming and doesn't require neon, which were dependent on the That might might might have a like ironed out all the it's not gonna be applied at So there there are potentially I find it unlikely that we're disruption in that It's just it's too vulnerable but probably not If it does happen, well, Over here. Hey, Peter. You you talked I just wonder what your thoughts What's going on? all world leaders, have problems with we're we're not immune to that. The question is how honest So Putin has also established a and has also purged the system replace them. But he started has shaped how much he's at the end of the Cold War, I'm gonna go back There was a coup in the Soviet services took over, purged all the other factions This is the end drop a drop off turn a they were the first three, Putin is part of that click, And the intelligence the fall and have And Putin has bit by bit and he hasn't done a lot below. So Putin's inner circle Half of whom are If you ever need to see the former president, he's you can ignore But there are a few of with advice and context. So I think the best example I to, the January before The the the March and March just after the war began, Putin was making all The US ambassador was something like this, Think of things from a You remember back in January the order for the day the war was under the Kremlin that It was walk in safe. And in an hour after we published the notes of That was our way of telling is at any given moment. So if you think you can And the first half dozen we except straight up. You're out of your The point is is that He has people. He's which means you can you can email. You can tap the And as bad as the demographic There's still a massive and energy, whereas China now no way to find out anything importer of pretty much So in the worst case scenario will still persist longer than in China's almost over. The Russians have at least another But this is still probably So Peter, with the, with articulated, and sort of across the world. How do you reconcile the idea labor, really being something that folks supply chain, is that is that I might wanna ask, but is it happy talk to say You can say, I think Two things to keep in different hemisphere. A lot of the stuff from And forced labor is gonna concerns when it comes So I would expect those independent reasons. Second, business One of the p things of Florida is that he hasn't He's gone to war ESG, is it doing a good job? Quest Is it taking us to where But since the business the converse situation. They are trying to figure out ESG is a component of And so every business is way based on their geography, their own And of course, they're all coming up with Some of which are but when people on the left or business just gets pissed off they can when they're So when I hear people like about ESG, it's like is making it easier for support the Republican So there are consequences, and we're going to see them general election next year, but they're gonna be we're not used seen We're used to the business community Now more specifically to Since there are no since every company comes at it own reasons, there is So we're going to be waiting international capacity to build this stuff. And those countries are not gonna snap So I hate to say this. This is a tier three And there is not that allows us to map Hi, Andrea Hubianco from Do you think IQ demo graph plays a role into population attributes adaptability is That's all cultural It's a lot harder to map but there's just cultures are better or worse different stage at the example, Americans are We have the highest value The Mexicans are great at product They're the highest value But if you were to increase the a factor of five, They'd probably It's not an issue of us or them They're at a different stage growth and we have So I've never seen a from an echo from a from an IQ Every every time they've kind of thrown it But that doesn't mean we're Hi, Peter. Kyle Pin What would you say is the your hypothesis based on election? Oh, I mean, I win. It's gonna be Biden. And we've known this So one of the things about after an So its effects haven't votes for who. But when despite expecting a red wave, house and a red And what we found out is States had changed Couple things. Number one. Trump has basically told election doesn't matter. Which means that the because the general election independents have a voice. And so they reacted to that. In post and exit polling, something crazy like eighty said that they despise the and felt that they hurt And independents are fickle. They almost always switch They get buyers remorse. they had voted for Biden, and now they were but almost all of them There's a saying in the that we support one person, one And if the independents were to vote against their own interests in order to make in an off year. You can bet they're Trump will probably carry And then the Republican party is going And the people who are Oh, no. I broke it. The are gonna have to decide if out, which hasn't worked yet, or move on. And we'll know Alright. I think we're gonna Good afternoon, Steve I guess you keep talking Germany's gonna collapse. That anarchy? Is Well, let's start with the Assuming for the moment that there's it will be a very organized And we will see individual longer competitive fall off happened in chemicals. It's already happened in really big one will Automotive requires that was tapped out a long it's been tapped out And if they relocate their like the Japanese have, That means German workers So they're gonna probably probably book you some of the And they just fade away unless there's in which case god knows. China China's collapsed over And every time it's gone down, they've lost at least a Just playing the odds because that you can do that You get a civilizational break because they're so dependent on energy inputs, now. The north probably That's where about two And it'll probably fall into And remember that g has So there's no even at the local level which probably means warlords. Again, Chinese And then the southern cities they don't back They're kind of divorced from always have been and I would in order to get food and energy their infrastructure to supply chain. that's usually how it's gone. These cities have gotten the foreign partners for most of The, the communist period is a being united with That's probably how it this has happened There's a lot of That's not the worst one. Awesome. Let's give Peter a round of applause. Thank you so much.