A couple of videos ago, I spoke about the speed of of gravity. And that unleashed a firestorm in the me, saying that gravity isn't a force. That with lots of subtle philosophical, tautological, spend the next ten minutes or so? (intro music) Is gravity a force? Betteridge's law could journalist Ian Betteridge, and it states that answered by the word no." So, if that particular shortest video ever. I'm giving Ian a break. perhaps that's a bit hasty. Maybe we need to we first need to ask ourselves "what is a force?" According to Merriam-Webster, the relevant that if applied to a free body, results chiefly elastic deformation and other effects." often different than colloquial ones, I dug up my if you want to look it up - says that a force is also notes that not all forces causes motion, if how gravity pulls me down, but the floor pushes of different levels of understanding gravity. The force and acceleration. Force was mass times move. So, at least as far as Newton is concerned, really know how it worked, but it was a force. tugged another mass, causing it to move. That "as far as Newton is concerned" is super to Newton's theoretical framework." The problem arises in 1915, when this troublemaker Combined with some insights from one of his we now treat gravity very differently. In Einstein and Minkowski's formulation of what was really going on was mass distorted This picture shows you how it is often portrayed. Far from any mass, space is what is called dimensional grid of straight lines. This is an object will travel in a straight line, This is the equivalent of Newton's first law, in motion unless acted on by an outside force. However, when mass is introduced to the picture, mass, that second mass still follows the lines of in the Einstein and Minkowski formulation of claimed. Objects still move in the direction person thinking space is flat, they will say So the object looks like it's experiencing a isn't obvious. And, again, the phrase "in the Einstein and here. It translates to the more formal "with in gravity is not a force, but rather a distortion those somewhat stuffy admonitions. Since Einstein's theory makes better predictions Gravity isn't a force. Well, here is where we have gotten hasty. For one is incomplete. And, because of that, we need which we generically call quantum gravity. I made the description below. The problem is that none of the theories That means that there are lots different ways fundamental level. Now, I can't talk in detail Really, each idea should get a video of its own. but here I will instead just sketch out some be only mentioned and not receive a deep dive. So one very simple and very common idea is that of particles called gravitons. One particle emits results in a gravitational attraction. This is in which one charged particle emits a photon, is a force. Under this theoretical paradigm, if electromagnetism is a force and gravity is unreasonable to call gravity a force too. Of course, the nature of the graviton differs in superstring theories, in which the smallest but rather tiny vibrating strings, the graviton is kind of like a hula hoop. At high energy, gravitons interact with In order for superstring theory to work in space, the curvature of spacetime described coherent state, which sort of means synchronized thing, but has a different cause. Then there's the idea of loop quantum quantized, which means there is a shortest In this theory, these little bits of space like chain mail, with the individual loops This paradigm is more like Einstein's model, in from the fact that a path from loop quantum that gravity isn't fundamental, but rather emerges black hole physics, and quantum information accepted gravitational theory and it is slower to explanation for why galaxies rotate quicker than explain the same things that dark matter does. In any event, entropic gravity invents ordinary but rather entropy and the statistical about quantum gravity. Maybe one day I'll do a to the "is gravity a force" thing. The key thing is that understanding any physical In Newtonian thinking, gravity is a force. And we don't know at the quantum level. If high energy, but at lower energy, the theories than being something - after all, Newtonian claims about the nature of gravity. It's a force, quantum particles. The answer you get depends on stripped of theory, the true answer to the it's exactly the same as when someone asks what's (phasing sound) Okay- that was a tricky video, highlighting necessarily guided by our theories, which are conditions. Because of that, you need to be going on, because you'll probably be only partly you'll like, subscribe and share and be sure to of physics theories. And it's totally worth (outro music)