10 Fighter Aircraft Prototypes 10. Shenyang J-31 This is a prototype Chinese 5th generation fighter made using stealth technology. It was developed at the Shenyang Corporation's Institute No. 601. Also known under the factory designation FC-31. The first flight of the prototype took place on October 31, 2012. In the following years, further tests of improved prototypes took place. Many different improvements were made to the shape of the vertical stabilizers, avionics and propulsion. The Shenyang J-31 is a smaller and probably cheaper machine than the J-20. Price-cutting simplifications may result from dedicating the aircraft to export and offering it where American technology is too expensive or unavailable for political reasons. The J-31 is similar in appearance to the F-35, and one of the hypotheses explaining the similarity is Chinese industrial espionage. However, the J-31 is a twin-engine aircraft, which requires a different internal structure and arrangement of weapons compartments. Among the opinions regarding the tasks of this model, there are also voices that it is a plane intended for Chinese aircraft carriers. 9. MiG 1.44 This is a Soviet/Russian air superiority fighter project completed at the demonstrator stage. It was created in the USSR, but after its collapse due to the crisis it was practically not developed. The pre-prototype was completed in the early 1990s and began performing its first taxiing tests in 1994. The first flight took place on February 29, 2000. At that time, the plane was treated as a technology demonstrator rather than a prototype. It had a digital control system, variable thrust vector engines, reduced detectability features, and the ability to install plasma generators that would further reduce the aircraft's radar signature. Its armament was partially embedded in the fuselage and suspended on underwing nodes. One of the main advantages of the new aircraft was its significant maneuverability. The project was suspended in 1997 due to lack of funds for further development. Immediately after this, the PAK FA multi-role aircraft program, now known as the Su-57, was launched. 8. Su-75 Checkmate This is a project of a light, Russian 5th generation fighter aircraft, developed at the Sukhoi plant. The Su-75 Checkmate was presented to the world for the first time at the 2021 air show. The plane was shown as a non-flying prototype. The Russian fighter was described as a light tactical aircraft. The design was to draw on the experience of the Su-57 Felon, but unlike it, it was to be a light and single-engine design. The plane is to be built using stealth technology. The Su-75 Checkmate is to reach a speed of Mach 1.8 and have an operational range of 3,000 km, thanks to the use of the &quot;Product 30&quot; engine with a vector-controlled exhaust nozzle and afterburner. Since then, almost nothing has been heard from him. Russian media recently revealed that the Kremlin, during the Aero India 2023 exhibition, was to offer Delhi participation in the project of this light tactical fighter. However, this is unlikely due to the fact that India is already developing its 5th generation HAL AMCA fighter, which is at the prototype development stage in 2024. 7. X-32 This is a 5th generation multi-role jet fighter designed by Boeing. This aircraft lost the competition in the Joint Strike Fighter project with the X-35, the current F-35 built by Lockheed Martin. Two prototypes were constructed. The official ceremony of rolling the plane out of the assembly hall took place on December 14, 1999 in Palmdale. The structure designed by Boeing assumed greater unification of all variants required by the Pentagon than in the case of its competitor, which was to reduce the subsequent unit cost of mass-produced aircraft. However , at the end of 2001, the X-35 was declared the winner of the JSF competition, which ended the development of the Boeing project. The loss of the JSF contract to Lockheed Martin was a major blow to Boeing as it represented its most important international fighter project since the Lightweight Fighter program of the 1960s and 1970s, which led to the F-16 Fighting Falcon and F/A-18 Hornet. 6. F-16XL General Dynamics F-16XL is a derivative of the F-16 Fighting Falcon with a curved delta wing, shaped like a triangle. The aircraft participated in the 1981 United States Air Force Enhanced Tactical Fighter competition to obtain a successor to the F-111 Aardvark, but lost to the F-15E Strike Eagle. The F-16XL fuselage was extended by 140 cm compared to the basic F-16 version and received a larger air intake. The improvements increased internal fuel capacity by almost 2,000 kg, or approximately 65%. An enlarged wing and reinforced mounting points allowed for a highly customizable payload. The F-16XL could carry twice as much weapons and deliver them at 50% greater distances. The changes introduced in the new F-16 concept resulted in improved flight characteristics of the aircraft. The machine performed very well at high speeds and at low altitudes. Two prototypes were built. Both were transferred to NASA in 1988 for additional aeronautical research. The planes were completely withdrawn from service in 2009 and are currently stored at Edwards Air Force Base. 5. YF-23 Black Widow II These are two prototype fifth-generation fighter aircraft designed and built by Northrop and McDonnell Douglas as part of the Advanced Tactical Fighter project. The project was closed in 1991 due to the selection of a competitive YF-22 aircraft for the United States Air Force, now known as the F-22 Raptor, developed by Lockheed Martin and Boeing. The YF-23 differed from the YF-22 on many levels. The most important of them are: stealth, maneuverability and supercruise, airframe system and exhaust nozzles. Compared to its competitor, the YF-23 may have had slightly better stealth characteristics, achieved at the cost of poorer maneuverability. It also used more radical design solutions, but the decision-makers chose the more conservatively designed Raptor. However, according to the then Secretary of the United States Air Force, the choice was based on confidence in the ability of the Lockheed and Pratt &amp; Whitney team to produce the aircraft and its engine within the assumed costs. 4. Yak-41 This is a Soviet supersonic vertical take-off and landing aircraft from the 1980s, which remained at the prototype stage. Also known as Yak-141. The structure was created in the Yakovlev design office. The plane was initially supposed to be a supersonic vertical takeoff and landing interceptor operating from aircraft carriers, but in the first half of the 1980s it was decided to change the requirements to a multi-role fighter capable of attacking ground and surface targets. The first flight of the Yak-41 took place in 1987. After landing, cracks were found in the fuselage, which resulted in the suspension of tests of the aircraft. Trials resumed in June 1990. Four prototypes were built, including two flying ones. During sea trials of the aircraft in 1991, the Yak-41 prototype crashed upon landing and caught fire on the deck of the air cruiser &quot;Admiral Gorshkov&quot; - today's Indian aircraft carrier. After the incident, due to cuts in military spending, funding for the program was discontinued and never resumed. 3. Su-47 Berkut This is a Russian experimental fighter aircraft - a technology demonstrator developed at the Sukhoi design bureau. Work on Berkut began in the mid-1980s, immediately after testing the T-10M machine, the later Su-35. According to the original idea, the Su-47 was to be the successor to the Su-27 and its development version, from which it obtained some of its components, including: front of the fuselage, landing gear and partially the cockpit with a fairing. Its characteristic feature is an unusual aerodynamic arrangement - wings with a negative slope, a relatively small horizontal empennage in the tail and an additional horizontal empennage at the front (canards). The design solutions used allow this machine to be called a 4.5 generation fighter, the prototype of which first took to the air in 1997. In the case of Berkut, the designers' priority was high maneuverability, for which stealth features were sacrificed and they were introduced only to a limited extent. Despite its promising properties, the Su-47 remained only a prototype. Only one copy of this aircraft was built. 2. KF-21 Boramae This is a South Korean prototype multi-role fighter built by Korea Aerospace Industries in cooperation with Indonesia. The KF-21 Boramae was created in a very short time. Work on it as part of the KF-X program began in 2015. The first of six prototypes first flew in 2022, and series production is scheduled to start in 2026. It is planned to produce at least 200 fighters - 120 for South Korea and 80 for Indonesia. It is worth emphasizing that the KF-21 is partially based on technologies made available by the United States. Despite its visual similarity to 5th generation aircraft, the KF-21 is currently classified as a 4.5 generation machine. In appearance, it resembles a scaled-down American F-22, but unlike it in its current form, it is not a plane with physical stealth features. The armament is not carried in compartments, but only in recesses and suspended under the hull. However, Korean designers are aware of this shortcoming and in the development version of the KF-21 they plan to enlarge the machine's fuselage so that it can accommodate weapons. The empty weight is 12 tons, the maximum take-off weight is 26 tons, and the weight of the carried weapons is 7.6 tons. The plane is 17 m long and has a wingspan of 11 m. The drive consists of two General Electric engines. 1. TAI Kaan This is a prototype Turkish 5th generation multi-role aircraft developed by the state-owned manufacturer Turkish Aerospace Industries. It is a world-class air superiority fighter that can compete with American and Chinese counterparts. Also called a multi-role aircraft by its creators. KAAN is a Turkish male name meaning &quot;ruler&quot; or &quot;king of kings&quot;. The Turkish fighter, previously known around the world as TF-X, was officially presented in May 2023. The machine first flew in 2024. The plane is scheduled to go into mass production in 2028-2030. The new Turkish fighter is to replace the used and exploited American F-16. KAAN is very similar to the American F-22 Raptor fighter and, like it, has a classic two-engine design with vertical stabilizers. However, the Turkish fighter will be slightly smaller. The plane is 19 meters long, has 12 wingspans and weighs approximately 27 tons in the starting configuration. The aircraft is to reach a speed of Mach 2 and have an operating radius exceeding 1,000 km. Moreover, in recent months, Ukraine has also wanted to join the Turkish program as both a customer and a cooperator.