Hey everyone, so as of late I've been debunking astrophysics. This comes in the form of cranks audience of laypeople who exhibit a bias Given what I've debunked so far, whether it's the the cold fusion investment scam that is Suspicious Observers, the flavors may vary, All of the "mainstream" physicists in the world spectacularly unqualified non-physicist is right. of science as well, but it is oddly attracting those who simply like the idea that all trust anyone who tells them so, provided that as though they know what they're talking about. of unqualified hacks, due to the frequency with of my debunks. That is Pierre-Marie Robitaille, guy? What does he say? And why is all of it so First, a bit of background. Again, everyone who authorities on astrophysics should somehow include And true to form, Pierre also is not To give him the only credit he will receive in and was involved in major advancements conducting research at Ohio State University off the deep end and started publicly promoting in which he has zero training. For just a taste dissected at great length in a moment, he thinks not a remnant of the recombination era which but rather is just radiation reflecting off made of liquid metallic hydrogen. Some of you but if not, rest assured, we will dig Now with Pierre's adventures in quackery he was asked to step down from his position, ever accepted any of his ramblings on this subject But with the resolve of any delusional narcissist, he spent something around 130,000 dollars to take blissfully unaware that he could have published In the ad he outlined some of the classic rants that the world of legitimate peer-reviewed physics You know, with their collective thousands of PhDs paling in comparison to Pierre's none whatsoever in "Progress in Physics", a pseudojournal that and acts as a haven for a variety of physics His YouTube videos will be the best so let's get into dissecting those now. be looking at is his insistence that the big to discredit the model focuses primarily on Right away, with this single statement, we idea what he's talking about. He is acting as of the initial singularity itself, and he even the big bang. Anyone who knows anything knows that this radiation is a remnant of the years after the initial singularity. This was the that protons and electrons could be coupled to to the ground state for the first time, they emitted electromagnetic radiation, and which has since cooled and stretched to arrive at the 2.7 Kelvin it's at today. This is as a freshman undergrad, and I've summarized this my astronomy series. Pierre is trying to discuss thing about what it is. This single monumental which is indeed what all astrophysicists do, when his nonsense. But just for fun, let's listen to Cosmology is a branch of astronomy, which is is something that flat earthers do, while There are thousands of cosmologists Pierre just doesn't understand any of it. This is the most unscientific statement anyone the claim that what is said to be known is not be known. That it is unknowable. In saying this, and accepting the title of a preacher. fundamentally outside of the domain of science, But Pierre doesn't stop at playing the since he needs to deal with the mountain We can start with its discovery, the Nobel prize As one would expect, he offers nothing more than not observing the laws of thermodynamics. This, who complain about earth's atmosphere somehow violating the laws of thermodynamics, because they don't know that gravity exists, And here we get to Pierre's single dumbest idea. ever been recorded is actually just measurements Earth's oceans. Turbulent, flowing water. This dumber with every layer you peel away. First if microwaves were reflected upon it because of as with the atmosphere, so there is precisely the data that he is referencing. But it gets much Penzias and Wilson, who took measurements down but also for the data gathered by satellites away from the Earth, which give very impressive, value for the CMB, with much greater precision. restate for emphasis. Pierre believes that the near-perfect Planckian distribution of frequencies 0.00057 K, is the Earth's oceans. That's right, to impossibly produce an immaculate blackbody with the nearly scale-invariant perturbations of inflationary cosmology down to a thousandth Yep. You're hearing him correctly. that all the astrophysicists on Earth is actually data associated with the ocean, as should be enough to prompt We not know how telescope work! Uh oh!" He complete morons to their face. As someone with zero experience in the field or it's actually not even the most insulting Again, by pretending that the CMB is supposed Pierre demonstrates that he does not know what general, as it was not an explosion. This is the that evolution is false because there are still natural blackbody curve that has ever been flawless than that of any physical substance like anyone who has a clue about these phenomena thermal equilibrium, and it is at the precise cosmological model. Pierre therefore had to invent but what he settled on is so mind-numbingly human person takes him seriously, educated or not. that his claim is totally unfounded. It's quite a local effect instead of a cosmological one this can be done in three ways by anyone with there is something called the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Compton scattering. In short, the photons from encounter relativistic electrons. This happens regions, such as around massive galaxy clusters. such that they achieve higher frequencies and The effect subtly distorts the CMB in a way that clusters. We have even used this information to galaxy clusters, which can then be confirmed with You can't get more empirical than that. So if way that it would precisely correlate with This is radiation that originated in the early Second, there is something called This has to do with photons that enter a dip down and losing it as they climb back out. a prediction of general relativity. The phenomenon and has since been observed in astrophysical point in its orbit around the supermassive black through these wells on the way to our telescopes. with the energy gained going in equaling the energy, the universe expands faster than these grow. So it's as though the well becomes slightly photon is traveling through it, so these photons and will appear slightly hotter in the direction namely areas with high concentrations of galaxies. slight fluctuations in the CMB that correlate very like galaxy clusters and superclusters, and thus Radiation that is local does not pass through to an instrument in orbit, unless Pierre wants which would be more than a little noticeable. energy component of the universe, and would And third, there is gravitational lensing. If the lens it between the satellites and the Earth. But to small scale anisotropies, or tiny imperfections was created. These anisotropies, tiny as they are, see in the universe today. Without these slight would not have formed, as these anomalies allowed to generate these structures. These anisotropies by this large-scale structure that has formed manifested in the data by slight perturbations Observations by satellites like Planck can then instruments, looking at smaller areas of There have been numerous such studies, and These three phenomena, the the integrated Sachs-Wolfe effect, and but astrophysics is not trivial. It's complicated. conceptual level in which I just described them None of Pierre's followers have ever done this, but rather anti-establishment narratives So that's all there is to it. Pierre's views with the data, as are other crank ideas floating and other such nonsense. Regarding big bang the picture is clear, so adding in the other of galaxies, and the relative abundance of light which I've covered in my astronomy tutorials, big bang cosmological model is overwhelming, has no idea what they are talking about. isn't the only trick up Pierre's sleeve. He He thinks everything we know about stars like the good graces of the Thunderbolts Project and such that he was invited to talk at one The funniest thing about the EU conferences is not all wrong in different ways that specifically you oppose well-established physics, you're anti-establishment narratives, which once again, almost all pseudoscience. So what does Pierre Saying gaseous plasma is like saying solid liquid. Gas and plasma are different Again, no, the sun is not gas, it's plasma. are intact. Plasmas are not. We do not view because it's plasma. It's too hot in are not synonyms. He doesn't seem to He is comparing the emission spectrum of molecular and complaining that if the sun is made of understand that the sun is not molecular hydrogen, nuclei. It's not discrete hydrogen atoms with absorbing and emitting photons to produce the molecular hydrogen gas in a canister here on Bohr model of the hydrogen atom, something which Kelvin degrees? They're just high school chemistry students know this. Nope. Stars the mass of our sun fuse helium nuclei triple alpha process, and heavier stars fuse then producing the heavier elements when from spectral analysis. More Astronomy 101 It is astounding the degree to which he about solar physics, which leads him to He is implying there is no pressure without a is. Atmospheric pressure exists and has some You don't have to scoop some of it up and put it The same goes for liquids. There are no physical but the pressure becomes greater as you go down. star, the greater the gravitational compression Again, it's not gas, it's plasma. Stellar because gravity exists. And stars don't released from the fusion reactions happening fusion reactions push the matter out. It's There you go, buddy! All good now? This is getting embarrassing, even for Pierre. He the surface of the earth when gas particles strike pressure inside a star, because there is no solid Pierre's comprehension of basic scientific middle school. In Pierre's world, our lungs Fortunately, in reality, the atmosphere exerts way up to space. We can climb mountains and go The same applies inside the sun. When we talk an area, it's just any hypothetical area. It We can construct a shell of any radius and do It's not getting any better here. Pierre and a gas cloud of many solar masses will behave attraction between some gas particles in a tiny but also beyond negligible compared to the is near. A cloud of many solar masses in deep particles is the only force acting upon them, and This idiotic analogy he puts forward is the water stick to a spinning ball. Well a tennis ball Earth does, and some gas in a box doesn't generate solar masses does. Some people have criticized me but the more I do these debunks, Again, Pierre is incapable of understanding with its emission spectrum, and the plasma Too hot for atoms to exist. So the electronic the emission spectrum of hydrogen gas has nothing sun. Stars have no true surface, so radiation light we see from the sun is therefore emanating this light is determined by the temperature of the of the variance in the chemical composition of In fact there is no such thing as a perfect every time Pierre talks about blackbodies, he just Really? That's funny, because I used all the time when I worked in a chemistry carbonyls on a substrate. Reagents Pierre isn't pretending to be an organic This is a really common thing for con men usually taxpayer money, is being used something sleazy creationists do to object Pseudophysicists will use the same tactic just people doing science that they don't way to connect emotionally with a suggestible Now we get to the meat of Pierre's absurd notion graphite is a good approximation of a blackbody, graphite. But it has to be hydrogen, so he says It's like saying that apples are red, and blood it's that dumb. Two things that share a similar thing. Once again, stars are too hot for any There is a chance that there is liquid metallic like Jupiter and Saturn, but planets are not are not as hot as stars. Pierre wants the viewer with its mountain of firm evidence, and replace atoms based purely on conjecture that ignores The reason we think liquid metallic hydrogen may conditions we assume must be present, based on regarding temperature and pressure. We do the hydrogen that liquid metallic hydrogen may well reasonable prediction. Pierre does none of that. too hot in a star for liquid metallic hydrogen lattice fusion is responsible for the power output to produce all of the elements on the periodic mechanism for this process, it's also objectively Fusion in the outer regions of the sun would fry we would have to see fusion happening inside rays and neutrinos coming from that direction? fusion of these heavy elements? The numbers and accepted model. It never ends. If someone proposes arise from its application, and if none of them the model. All observations and all data confirm who says otherwise just has no clue what those great length in the debunk of the SAFIRE project, Now we could do this all day, as Pierre but let's close on one more topic that This is just more preacher talk. There is always are wrong. Just explain the phenomenon in question stars orbiting rapidly around a dark spot. Why? above a certain mass and they produce black personally dismantle the mountain of evidence for about scientific facts that discredit your stupid black holes are not conjecture. They Gibberish. Smaller nuclei fuse in a star's When the material runs out, and the star collapses. It's Does it though? More false flag to study the things they study, Another common claim amongst every Identify the frontier of the field and just suggestible viewer. This is what would have been and molecules in the 19th. There will always be and as Pierre is not part of that process, This is what we call damage control. When you exist, and then someone gets a picture of one, you which ends with denying the legitimacy The data is right in his face, so he researchers of fraudulence. Let's He's saying that because a lot of scientists were other scientists that are part of the network conspiracy going on. In reality, Pierre is just He actually has the balls to whine about how didn't reference his pseudopublications. Pierre, real scientists don't care about what When everything you say is objectively wrong, Yeah, scientists all over the world Or is it a conspiracy just You're like a preteen festering at lunchtime sit with you. It's pathetic. Do you have I honestly don't even know what he's trying to say of the data gathered to generate this image because it was an astounding technical feat, so in another galaxy that's really far away. Pierre a scientist, but that's really hard to do. And the of itself, while also having no application here. "yeah, whatever". He is just saying words need to hear him say words to retain their Yeah, we know that you used to do medical imaging. Just like your electric universe buddies who think because they are electrical engineers, not anything remotely resembling Yes, Pierre. The black hole image is an that happens to look exactly like what we knew an with mass estimates based on the image matching before we imaged it. The desperation is is an image of an accretion disk of matter around This video is getting quite long so I won't colleague of mine, Derek Muller, did a great job before even having seen it, based on relativistic This is now the second video in a series of because it was such a devastating And in it, he just continues with the same talking which is literally meaningless. They got what it is. He has nothing legitimate to say. on just vomiting as much technical information rushing through as much esoteric terminology as data is invalid, without having to substantiate that the image is invalid, they just listen to conclude that he knows what he's talking usually while convincing themselves that they as much on the video, remarking at how wonderful And we arrive at the third video. This one is Fabrication Masterclass!" The audacity is researchers of committing fraud. This goes untenable ideas. This is truly inexcusable. More presenting technical data that he knows and talking quickly over it so that he can If Pierre was a real scientist, he would submit which the results were initially published, his accusations. He doesn't bother, because it when his true intention is just to pose for his and Pierre lives to lie another day. highlighting the blatant errors he makes regarding physics, but I think this has been sufficient. channel and become convinced that he's some kind why? Let's acknowledge that laypeople should and therefore should not be expected to pseudoscience on this matter. Then why does than the entire astrophysics community? You may It's the narrative. You like the story. It's those jerk scientists that think they're is wrong. And David, the rebellious rogue hated science in school, and this is your way helplessly conspiratorial and you automatically even when it's not actually an authority, Maybe pretending that you're in on a new discovery feel smart and special, like you invested in Apple narcissist just like Pierre who likes to pretend so you support anyone who validates that delusion. That's why you talk like a fanatic. You don't You bought a story, and you want that story to be they have magic powers. But adults accept reality. is. It's shaped by scientists who have studied do science. If you didn't do that yourself, you Those are your two options. But these empty non-authorities are the epitome of immaturity. the world is a complete moron that doesn't know stands alone as a genius. Astrophysicists are and most are merely hardworking individuals with guy on the internet that pretends to know what pretend to be doctors. Others, nutritionists, astrophysicists. Some do a better impression than So that's it. If you're someone who hopefully you can now see him for what he is, a the core. And if you're interested in learning tutorials in basic physics and astronomy