(electronic music) - No, no cool intro, no fancy music. I just want to explain I have a degree in economics. I spent years trying to understand this. (ominous music) so let's see if I can boil it down. What is inflation? Why is it rising? Why are people worried? And what do interest - The Federal Reserve is - [Reporter] Fed is set - Highest inflation in 40 years. - Listen, I know that I make long videos. I'm into nuance, I'm into backstory. Well, this isn't that. This is quick. (&quot;quick&quot; echoing) No, really, this is quick. Let's go. (rapid electronic music) Wait, wait, wait, rewind. Hold on one second. Before we start the that I was going to do an ad read in the middle of the explanation. Like I was gonna stop the but I realized I want this six-minute explanation, so I'll even take out the YouTube ads that are on it so that it can be uninterrupted. But for now, I need to because it's literally my Thank you, BetterHelp and my channel generally. BetterHelp is customized online phone, or even live chat So you don't have to see anyone on camera if you don't want to. Therapy is a giant part for several years now, But I know that finding and cumbersome and BetterHelp It's all on the internet. All you have to do is take a quiz and they link you up with a therapist. They have a giant network of over 20,000 licensed therapists. You can be talking to And if your therapist isn't a good fit, you can change for free, So join the two million plus of their mental health with BetterHelp. You can even get 10% off your first month if you go to the link in my description, betterhelp.com/Johnny Harris. Do us both a favor and click on that link and go see if therapy as much as it has mine. Thank you, BetterHelp, Okay, the ad is over, let's and see if I can do this Here we go. - Okay, first up, the simplest definition. Inflation is when there is than stuff to spend it on. But if you're like me, the it for you. So let's try this. Imagine a village that has all of their stuff, their but one day the government shows up because they're worried about So they tell the people out a loan, they're gonna make sure that the banks will not charge They want to encourage the and spend money. Oh, and they also drop for everyone in the village. And everyone in the I'm feeling pretty rich.&quot; Villagers now are going to way more stuff. Many of them have been eyeing in the market that before But now they totally can because they have all this new money. The store owner's like, &quot;Sweet. But he's running out of bikes. In fact, he's running out of everything because now all of these and they're buying way The store owner is like, &quot;I can't keep up with all this demand, And that is inflation. But the village is all the entire economy. When there's extra money floating around and people wanna spend it faster than businesses can make stuff, in all of the industries And that is inflation. It's a natural part of the economy. It's kind of a good thing in that the economy is growing. And it's why movie tickets and now they're like $15. And slowly over time, it's fine. Okay, let's go back to the if we keep going at this rate. The store owner has now The interest rate is super low so he takes out a loan to build a new This is good, he's growing a business. But the government money and his prices are still double. But now the store owner all of his new bikes. And now he has this but no customers. He has to shut down the and slowly start lowering his prices. This is called recession. When COVID shut down the world, free money. They're like don't panic instead spend and borrow Here in the U.S., they They gave 600 bucks a week for months and months and months. They gave subsidies to people with kids. They increased spending on food stamps. I mean, trillions and trillions of dollars of stimulus money. This was vital aid to people in need, but even people who didn't lose a job got a check in the mail. It was free money for - I just picked up myself a new bike. - [Reporter] Demand is - It's time to grind, Peloton. - We all just got these big during a pandemic. We're like YOLO, I'm buying a - [Man] Pokemon cards. - [Man] There's Netflix. - [Woman] Fortnite. - [Man] A new Motor. - [Woman] Peloton. - [Woman] Good soak in a hot tub. - [Woman] Animal Crossing. - Push it out a little bit so it-- - No, don't you dare! - But pair all this new that the pandemic also made and ships and retailers - Supply chain issue. - Global supply chain. - Supply chain. - Supply. - So now you have an way more money than normal but the economy can't get So what do businesses do with They raise prices all at the same time and that is inflation. (exhaling) I feel like we're getting But what do interest rates - Raising the interest rate. - Interest rate. - Or the Fed? - Fed. - Federal Reserve. - The Federal Reserve. - Most countries have a of the economy, the bank of But it's not like a normal and then lends it out and That's what a normal private bank does. The central bank, which in the U.S. is run by the government. So their job is to set that all the other banks have to follow. And the central bank but rather their job is to it growing, to make sure people have jobs, to make sure that prices so that we can keep growing no recession, that is But seriously, the Fed and we are the puppets They pull strings in the our money in a certain how much businesses raise And guess what? It totally works. One of the strings that they have to pull in the economy is called Wanna borrow money to buy a car or a house or expand your business? You're gonna be way more likely to do that if you only have to pay as opposed to like 6%. Lower interest rates equal people and businesses wanna So during the pandemic, we need everyone to spend money. So they lowered the interest and people spent, and it totally worked. We're like freaking puppets. So a lower interest rate But once again, we're in this too much money to borrow and and services to spend it on. So what do businesses They raise prices to all at the same time and now And that is inflation. - [Reporter] Home prices - [Man] Astronomical bidding war. - Are going up. - So that's what's happening right now. All the prices are rising What that means is that now worth 8% less than it was last year. Like the same money is worth less because your purchasing And imagine if that keeps happening? Like instead of 8% it's 50%? Now your hundred dollar bill And that's when people start to freak out. And our economy that's built to falter and we fall into even, if it gets real what the Fed is built to avoid. So they're back to pulling their strings and they've started raising rates. - The Federal Reserve is - The Federal Reserve taking rising inflation. - They're gently raising the all of this hardcore see if they can steer And let's hope it works. Okay, did we do it? Did we do, did we do it in the time period that I promised I would? - [Nick] I have no idea. - We'll find out. (jazz music) Okay, last thing I wanna say into my little inflation explainer, but a few years ago when I worked at Vox, I went to Venezuela and I saw inflation up close and inflation got so out of the Fed, the puppet how to get it back in control that their money became worth nothing. The prices went up so high that their money became You needed like a pile So what they started doing the currency itself to make things. I visited this guy on purses and bags and sculptures out of cash because it was worth more as as money, as a currency, which is insane. That's a very extreme It's happened in several We're not in that situation, but it's an example of just how tenuous modern economies are. They're not pegged to gold or whatever. They're pegged to a that this stuff is worth something and it can quickly go off the rails. So I thought I'd share that is more documented that you can go watch on So that's all I've got. Thank you all for being here and I think you should check your videos or your photos, that you can use to I also have a storytelling course on Bright Trip where I for visual storytelling I think that's sort of it, at the end of these videos, We're working on lots of amazing videos and I'm really excited to share them. So I'll see you in the next one. Bye, everyone. Okay.