- In this video, I'm gonna from the outcome, how to stop caring what other people think about you, how to start feeling simply by learning the in this video. Now, first off, realize this. There's a book that I read. It's right here, it's called, &quot;The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck&quot; and in this book, what is talked about is that the truth of the matter is we are going to care about something. We are going to give an F about something. The idea is to make is something you actually choose. Now, for example, if we really care what if we want someone else's validation, someone else's approval, whatever that is, then what we are doing is that is what we are valuing. Another word for value is important. We are making that very important and what happens is a lot of times the things that we desire the most, the things we make the most important, are the things we felt we lacked or didn't get a lot of when we were a kid. So imagine that you're dating someone or you're going out and it's very important to you what someone else thinks about you. It's very important to you what they, and if they give you or if they like you. Well, what ends up happening is because that's important to you, that puts off a needy energy. Remember, if you need someone then what that means is that there's needy resistant energy on the inside. And here's the thing energetically. People feel what you feel about you. So the challenge is that you feel like I hope they like me. I want them to give me the that energy of needing Because when you need something outside of yourself from somebody else, they can feel that. When I used to work woman's shoes, if I would go and I needed so that I could make they would feel that. If I need you to please like this video, please like everything I'm doing, you're gonna feel that energy in the video and it's funny because it When you need it, you lack it. Anything you need you're Now one of the biggest magnetic energy is understanding is present-moment energy. It's when you are being you are in this moment now. When we care and we make it important what somebody else thinks of us, that is outcome-focused. We're focused on getting the result. We're focused on getting the outcome, someone else's approval, someone to be sexually connected to you. These are all outcome focuses, and having that neediness will literally repel it from you. One of the most magnetic things to realize is that all this is about to the moment and having So for example, let's say with someone and on &quot;Okay, I hope they like me.&quot; It's something you need, right? I need them to like me. I need them to approve of me. I need them to call me back. I need them to be I need them to kiss me. All of these things that It is saying my needs aren't And then the date is just, &quot;I'm going on this date That's called manipulation for many people that attachment, the attachment to the is that attachment is the but it is also a form of manipulation. It's saying, &quot;I'm gonna do And guess what, people feel that and we don't wanna manipulate and a lot of times if you attract people that you feel you have to manipulate, guess what ends up happening? They, it's people that may also you play that same game of manipulation. They may also be using in a certain way. One of the most powerful when you go out on a date is on being curious. If you go on a date with &quot;Okay, I wonder if this person likes me.&quot; We're always asking ourselves questions in our mind when we meet someone. And if we're like, &quot;Oh, I wonder how they feel about me. I wonder if they're attracted to me. I wonder if this, I wonder if that.&quot; It's, &quot;I wonder,&quot; and on the outside. Now think about this. This will help you become if you're ever going on a date, or even just meeting people Imagine being in the energy of curiosity. &quot;I wonder, does this person I wonder if we're gonna enjoy ourselves. I wonder if there's chemistry. I wonder if this person and Think about that. Which one feels more empowering to you? &quot;I wonder if they like me. I wonder if they're gonna prove of me. I wonder if they're gonna wanna have sex. I wonder if this, I wonder if that,&quot; and that like, ooh, or, &quot;I wonder, I'm curious if I'm curious if there's polarity. I'm curious what their values are.&quot; Then it's coming from a center of gravity. Remember, magnetic energy and I promise you, you have more fun, you're more present to the moment, you're more curious, you I promise you that. You will enjoy the process more too. And remember people feel what you feel. So when I was selling women's shoes, if I was like going up Can I?&quot; And people, customers would feel that. If there were like two 'cause it was commission, the person that most that the customer asks for help. It's the one that is the least attached. And I promise you, you being less attached to outcome, less attached to what other people think, will make you more magnetic than you can possibly imagine. But you have to start You have to start also Now the thing is, is in kids, like I was saying earlier, that we feel like we the things that didn't need our needs. And a lot of that is based was based for me in an abandonment wound. I felt like Mom and Dad were physically not always there when I was growing up, and because of that, I started to wire in &quot;I'm not worthy, there's And what did end up happening to make everybody else Being a people pleaser is other people, which means I'm gonna please you, so that you give me in exchange growing up, approval and validation. I could feel special and significant. If I can just add so then everyone I hope would I'll be even more indispensable. If I'm dating someone and I fix them and I just do all this would probably do, then You can never let me go And the challenge with this is that we end up in the process of trying to get other people's validation, we end up abandoning We abandon ourselves to And when we abandon ourselves guess what happens? They feel that needy energy, and not only that, we're we're not being present to the moment. We're not being authentic. We're not being vulnerable. And the process of you becoming of you is about you being you having things in your and at the same time, looking at what's important to you, and instead of having validation of the list, what I did is integrity, authenticity, These are the things that And guess what, then I'm instead of how do I get their approval, instead of to change their perspective or whatever, I started to accept myself more, accept that I'm not perfect. I started to focus more on expression rather than impression. If you wanna impress other people, that's outcome-focused. Expression is present-moment focused. If you express the real you on to date, you will be more to get the right impression Detachment is about to a code that is higher than what you were given as a kid. Instead of the validation, approval, care about what other people think, instead, authenticity, These things will help you than you can possibly imagine people will start to But one of the things that is when you get to the abandonment wound and you let that go, you You pull your energy back 'cause remember, people If you're projecting them energy, you're literally repelling So one of the most powerful is to actually pull your energy back, to feel safe in your own frame, to getting your needs met from childhood, trying to do that now, and instead realize you're It's not your fault if Mom or Dad emotionally or physically wasn't present and realize that as you living from that authenticity space, you get a different response in the world. Now, something that just have opened enrollment for the This is a community of like-minded people where we're all focused on one outcome, becoming the most magnetic from the inside out. There's thousands of people that will eventually I'm going live every bringing people on, we're We're gonna have the and the process for us to So if you're tired of fallen if you're tired to tuning to other people to get your needs met, if you wanna do the inner child work to really heal your life then join today. You can join until Friday for the Magnetic Mastery Membership and become a Founder's Member. The first people that get in are gonna be the people and now is the lowest price So if you want to join, join Join the Magnetic Mastery Membership. I hope to see you on the inside. The live coaching every week to the most, live meditations So with that being said, we'll show you the five secrets. It's not given a sheist. Then go and click this video right here. It's one of my most powerful videos for letting go and it'll change your life. Five secrets to letting attractive and that will And when you start applying because you start realizing and you start letting go.