So physics is a huge subject that going from galaxies in the depths of space And if you don't already know physics how all these different subjects So this is my attempt to show that in a map, I hope you enjoy it. Physics can be broadly broken down Classical Physics, Quantum Physics, and Relativity. We'll start with classical physics His laws of motion describe how everything and his law of universal gravitation tied with the falling of objects on Earth He also invented calculus, which has been used over the centuries Calculus is really part of mathematics Math is the language of physics, that the world of physics is built from. Newton also made strides in the field of optics and how it travels through different materials. It explains, refraction seen in prisms and lenses which are used to focus light Telescopes enabled us to peer into the depths there and develop astrophysics and cosmology. Optics is closely related to the theory through disturbances of a medium, like ripples Light doesn't need a medium to travel through, but it still follows the same principles as all waves namely reflection, refraction and diffraction. This leads us to electromagnetism: or more generally, electric and magnetic fields. It was a Physicist called James Clerk Maxwell of the same thing and derived and theorized that light was an electromagnetic wave. Electromagnetism also explains all of electricity. Jumping back a little bit, classical mechanics the properties and motion of solid objects, what happens when they are joined together, Fluid mechanics is the description Using fluid mechanics you can work out or how aerodynamic a car is. Fluid mechanics is notoriously difficult, like molecules get really complicated really fast. Which leads us to Chaos theory. Chaos theory is the description and how small differences in initial conditions Thermodynamics is the description of energy It also includes entropy which is a measure tells you how useful different kinds of energy are. Energy is fundamental property to physics I should have written it everywhere So that is all of classical physics, the picture It told us we lived in the Universe where everything everything accurately enough However, not everything was solved, that hinted at something more. The orbit of Mercury was slightly too fast on the smallest scales with electrons Physicists at the time thought that they would solve but poking at them they unraveled the new domains and turned our understanding of the Universe Albert Einstein was the genius who developed Special relativity predicts that the speed which means that when you travel really fast It also states that energy and matter through the famous formula E=mc2. General relativity says that space and time and that the force of gravity comes making other objects fall in towards them. While relativity describes the very big, in the world of Quantum Physics. Atomic theory probed the nature of the atom, of the atom were developed. From a tiny sphere, to electron orbits, to energy levels and then to the electrons Condensed matter physics of many atoms together in solids and liquids, like computers, lasers, Nuclear physics describes how the nucleus nuclear fission, the splitting of the atom used which takes place in the Sun and will Particle physics probes even deeper to find is made of and are described Quantum field theory captures all of quantum of relativity and is the best description Unfortunately Quantum field theory and so physicists don't know and the general theory of relativity One day in the future we hope to close of physics we call it quantum gravity, and there are string theory or loop quantum gravity But quantum gravity isn't the only thing there are also the major puzzles which seem to make up 95% of the Universe. So all of our physics only really describes 5% at the moment, is a mystery. There are many other mysteries and no doubt there's things beyond that Which gets to the lofty cloud Although many physicists make fun of philosophy, that motivate a lot of physics, like, &quot;How come the Universe even exists?&quot; &quot;Do we have free will or &quot;How do we know that the way to the fundamental truth of the Universe?&quot; And, just, why is all of physics like the way it is? Well those are the big questions, but that is no reason to give up trying, And that was the map of physics. So that's the end, thanks for watching Um. I'm still kind of working on the format with a few different things So let me know in the comments if you enjoy and if there are any specific subjects you want I've got a whole bunch of videos that are coming down the pipe so keep your eyes peeled for those. So until next time. See ya.