You have never seen the night sky quite like this. I am your father. The heavens on display under South American She's typing. Says good evening. We've dialed in a heck of an episode this week as we travel 12 hours by plane to We're in Calama. Where we wonder, will this be a life-changing spending one unforgettable night under the desert We're gonna roll with it And we're gonna show you how you can do it too, Alright, had to bust out the coat because yes, but we were getting a little hot under the airport in Calama, after an entire day middle of the night drive through the desert our taxi right now. Our innkeeper had arranged dusty outpost of San Pedro de Atacama, but yes, girl. This could be bad because we could be just other adventurers and these random dogs. Wait, She says he has our phone number While we wait, did I mention how cold it is? side of the world, the other hemisphere, so everybody's wearing winter coats. It's maybe 40 degrees. It is chilly for sure. So back home it's like 90, 100, this is All right, speaking of breaks, ours green jacket wearing savior. How are you, but understood the universal language of it's cold So that's what we did, traveling through the down a surprisingly well paved and smooth the most famous deserts on the planet. Though hidden behind the blackened bluffs off in the the driest place on earth with one of I mean just look at this. In astronomical the greatest places on earth to stare stretching on forever, millions of white dots pollution of big cities. And since this is as we just had to come experience this thing desert driving and as the clock strikes the side of the road are the dead giveaway. We We're somewhere in the middle of the Chilean desert. We're gonna see a lot of You know, it's gonna be worth it to be up The hotel is interesting, but before we just got to give you a little daytime tour is used. So you get a full picture. And this is really like to stay out here in the middle of the amount of electricity they can use. The let's just say that. So there's no like air be ready for that, and in the winter, like So yeah, it is so remote out here, the village old buildings, you can only plug in a certain Jeremy already the first thing he did was Each person, each business only gets so much. We hotels out here are just about as rustic as it aside, the accommodations really were perfectly of blankets kept us really warm overnight. left neither of us daring enough to attempt a It's like going up to a bunk bed. We were pretty ripe. Like in a cabin in the woods. Fortunately, this hotel room is big. Two spread out. Bunk beds, another full bed. And you could bring four or five people potentially. to book a stay here. We'll put a link in the All right, let's get to a time to get out to the a big 16 passenger van. And off we go into lots of research, and there are a lot of tour own version of celestial late night viewing. Ours to a dirt field surrounded by light blocking Chile. I hope I said that right. Once there, we TV trays adorned with wine glasses, a lovely meats and cheeses and cookies. And it would of our wives been here with us to enjoy it. The photographic proof that we made it here had a very impressive camera setup that took this near total darkness. And he even gave way into the galaxy and made it look like we snapped this picture of the Milky Way right had we ever quite looked at the sky in this way. Over the last decade the Atacama has seen a surge astronomy buffs and photographers from galaxies. Unobstructed and unpolluted by to constellations to the Milky Way, there is because of our high altitude. We're about because it's so dry here. This is the driest place per year, and that lack of moisture means very people call this desert home, there is little And the second thing, you Unfortunately, this is about as good a shot as cell phones really aren't allowed out here. The so leave the pictures to the professionals. enjoy it with your naked eye, which is through one of two 14-inch telescopes at And how good are these things? Our tour guide iPhone looking through the telescope's with my phone this good, and I've never stared And there are much more high-tech, professional Paranal Observatory offers tours to the public. that's its name. Where they observe and track And then there's ALMA, or the Atacama Large a $1.5 billion dollar multinational project that land observatory ever built. Scientists from more powerful than Hubble, to check out popular and usually require you to And it turns out this place's connection to has used the sandy, rocky terrain of Atacama space travel. Seems this place in the Makes you realize just how lucky we Even a basicm, chilly, middle of the dark night life-changing perspective. Truth is, in the but so too are our troubles. There's so much us or distracts us or steals our attention There's so many more important things going remind you of just that with each glance Now, if you're planning a similar trip, a to the lunar calendar. If there's a meteor plan your trip accordingly. Also, don't go the brightness of the moon actually washes out get yourself a star chart to find your tour guide will point them out to you, but So there you have it, an unforgettable night others. If you're coming to Chile, you've got to a link to the tour we booked in the description leave us a comment below. What did you like? What about one of these night tours? Did you take Also, like and share the video if you'd we'd love it if you hit Subscribe so you country on Earth. We are back with a brand 8 a.m. Eastern. In the meantime, be sure to Eastern. In the meantime, be sure to check out