Our summer vacation has arrived again this year. In previous years, I would have packed my schedule, but this year I decided to plan a little differently. We will be spending time in the suburbs of Stockholm. As soon as we arrive, we first go to the supermarket to get some food. Today is Saturday night. A quiet store. crayfish!?. At this time of year, crayfish are in season in Northern Europe and are often eaten. I found this cottage online and fell in love with it at first sight. I'm going to take it easy for a few days starting today. The main deciding factor for this home is its quiet location by the sea. Dinner on the first day is simple. Starting tomorrow, we will also enjoy cooking. It's 10pm, the sun is about to set. Listening to the sound of the waves. Good night. The next morning, I woke up naturally to the dim light. In the silence was the gentle sound of the waves. Along with my morning coffee, I had breakfast with the fresh strawberries and bread I had bought. At first glance, it seems like a normal day. This house has many windows. A gentle breeze and warm sunlight pour into the house. Whoa. A cute cat was here. From that day on, he came to visit us every day. Are you tired of playing? We also take a break. It's a beautiful beige color, so I decided to name it Be-chan. Let's play again, bye. I drove my car and came to a large supermarket. Start looking for ingredients! . When you think of Sweden, what food comes to mind... IKEA meatballs! . So, first I looked for meatballs. I don't really understand the types, and I don't understand Swedish either... Use the translation function to understand the details! . You can easily find the source you are looking for. I think I'll make a salmon dish too. With so many different types of mayonnaise, I wonder which one is better... My favorite dill! . It is an ingredient often used in Nordic cuisine. Purchase completed! . Let's start preparing for lunch right away. The menu is meatballs and mashed potatoes. It's seasoned and it's very easy to stir fry. Complete with plenty of sauce. Hmm, it turned out very well and was delicious! . Feels like a stylish private cafe. After lunch, just relax and enjoy the view of the sea. Afternoon coffee time. In Sweden, there is a coffee break custom called FIKA. One of the important cultures of this country. It's important to take time to relax. In the evening, take a walk around the neighborhood. There are no supermarkets or cafes on the island where we are staying . It feels like a residential area rich in nature. There are many cute Scandinavian-style houses. Boats are also a great means of transportation here. Tonight's menu is... I'm going to use a nice piece of salmon and grill it. The only seasoning is salt and pepper. Where's the frying pan lid? I don't have any, so this is fine lol. The other dish uses tomatoes and basil. And I eat it with my favorite burrata cheese. I forgot the lemon! . Good finish Let's have a comfortable terrace seat. As soon as I started eating... Sudden rain...LOL/ Let's start over from the beginning...Cheers~. Homemade meals made with locally sourced ingredients. You can experience a special feeling that is different from usual. I think I'll go to a nearby island tomorrow. While talking about this, I went to bed. The weather is pleasant today as well. This time is a luxury. Today's breakfast is a sandwich. Use plenty of mayonnaise, which you carefully selected. I'll make an avocado sandwich. Hand-washed pajamas. It's a sunny day where the laundry will dry quickly! . Apply sunscreen and get ready to go out. Let's go~ There are 24,000 islands around Stockholm. Vaxholm is one such island. A popular tourist destination that can be reached in one hour by boat from Stockholm city. Stroll around the cute streets for a while. Pippi, the local Swedish character! . This is the traditional craft Dala horse. Tea time at a cafe by the sea. I was so worried that I ended up buying 3 of them. Today we will be making dinner again using local ingredients . This tube of fish roe paste is Sweden's national food. We arranged it into cod roe pasta. The secret ingredient is soy sauce. The key is to add seaweed at the end. It was a little sweeter than the Japanese cod roe sauce. But the taste is close! . Today is my last night here. I'm glad you came to see me today too . Scandinavian people who love saunas. After warming up, jump into the cold sea. On this day too, my neighbor dived with great enthusiasm. The morning of the last day. This is the first time I've traveled on a trip where time feels so long. Drink coffee. Eating a meal or taking a walk. Although I didn't do anything special, every day was filled with dazzling moments.