Chris Anderson: It's great to have you here. Elon Musk: Thanks for having me. CA: So, in the next half hour or so, we're going to spend some time exploring your vision for what which I guess makes Why are you boring? EM: Yeah. I ask myself that frequently. We're trying to dig a hole under LA, and this is to create the beginning of what will hopefully to alleviate congestion. So right now, one of the most It affects people It takes away so much of your life. It's horrible. It's particularly horrible in LA. (Laughter) CA: I think you've brought with you the first visualization Can I show this? EM: Yeah, absolutely. Just to show what we're talking about. So a couple of key things in having a 3D tunnel network. First of all, you have to be able to integrate the entrance seamlessly into the fabric of the city. So by having an elevator, sort of a car skate, you can integrate the entrance just by using two parking spaces. And then the car gets on a skate. There's no speed limit here, so we're designing this to be able CA: How much? EM: 200 kilometers an hour, So you should be able in six minutes -- five, six minutes. (Applause) CA: So possibly, initially done, it's like on a sort EM: Yeah. CA: Which, I guess, from the surface streets as well. EM: So, I don't know but there's no real limit You can go much further deep The deepest mines are much deeper so you can alleviate any arbitrary with a 3D tunnel network. This is a very important point. So a key rebuttal to the tunnels that will simply alleviate congestion, and then you'll be back where you started, But you can go to any any number of levels. CA: But people -- seen traditionally, and that would block this idea. EM: Yeah. Well, they're right. To give you an example, which is -- I think it's that was just completed So it's roughly a billion dollars a mile And this is not the highest So yeah, it's quite difficult I think we need to have in the cost per mile of tunneling. CA: And how could you achieve that? EM: Actually, if you just do two things, you can get to approximately and I think you can go beyond that. So the first thing to do by a factor of two or more. So a single road lane tunnel has to be 26 feet, to allow for crashes and sufficient ventilation But if you shrink that diameter which is 12 feet, which is plenty you drop the diameter by a factor of two and the cross-sectional area and the tunneling cost scales So that's roughly a half-order Then tunneling machines currently tunnel and then the rest of the time for the tunnel wall. So if you design the machine instead to do continuous that will give you Combine that and that's a factor of eight. Also these machines are far from being so you can jack up the power I think you can get maybe a factor of four or five So I think there's a fairly to get somewhere in excess in the cost per mile, and our target actually is -- we've got a pet snail called Gary, this is from Gary the snail I mean, sorry, &quot;SpongeBob SquarePants.&quot; (Laughter) So Gary is capable of -- currently he's capable than a tunnel-boring machine. (Laughter) CA: You want to beat Gary. EM: We want to beat Gary. (Laughter) He's not a patient little fellow, and that will be victory. Victory is beating the snail. CA: But a lot of people imagining, they imagine that actually You go aboveground. Why isn't that a better solution? You save all that tunneling cost. EM: Right. I'm in favor of flying things. Obviously, I do rockets, This is not some inherent bias but there is a challenge with flying cars in that they'll be quite noisy, the wind force generated Let's just say that if something's a whole bunch of flying cars that is not an anxiety-reducing situation. (Laughter) You don't think to yourself, You're thinking, or is it going to come off Things like that. CA: So you've got this vision of future cities with these rich, Is there a tie-in here with Hyperloop? Could you apply these tunnels you released a few years ago. EM: Yeah, so we've been with the Hyperloop stuff for a while. We built a Hyperloop test track just for a student competition, to encourage innovative And it actually ends up being after the Large Hadron Collider, by volume. So it was quite fun to do that, and then we think we might -- so we've built a little pusher car but we're going to try seeing if it's not pushing something. So we're cautiously optimistic we'll be able to be faster even in a .8-mile stretch. CA: Whoa. Good brakes. EM: Yeah, I mean, it's -- yeah. It's either going to smash CA: But you can picture, running quite long distances. EM: Exactly. And looking at tunneling technology, it turns out that you have to -- In order to seal against the water table, you've got to typically design to about five or six atmospheres. So to go to vacuum is only one atmosphere, or near-vacuum. So actually, it sort of turns out if you build a tunnel that is good enough it is automatically CA: Huh. EM: So, yeah. CA: And so you could actually picture, what kind of length tunnel EM: I think there's no real length limit. You could dig as much as you want. I think if you were to do something like a DC-to-New York Hyperloop, I think you'd probably want because it's a high-density area. You're going under and if you go deep enough, you cannot detect the tunnel. Sometimes people think, to have a tunnel dug under my house. Like, if that tunnel is dug more than about three or four you will not be able In fact, if you're able whatever device you are using, you can get a lot of money who is trying to detect and from the US Customs and Border patrol So the reality is that earth is incredibly good and once the tunnel depth it is undetectable. Maybe if you have a very sensitive you might be able to detect it. CA: So you've started called The Boring Company. Very nice. Very funny. (Laughter) EM: What's funny about that? (Laughter) CA: How much of your time is this? EM: It's maybe ... two or three percent. CA: You've called it a hobby. This is what an Elon Musk (Laughter) EM: I mean, it really is, like -- This is basically interns We bought some second-hand machinery. It's kind of puttering along, CA: So an even bigger part of your time is being spent on electrifying Is one of the motivations the realization that actually, in a world where cars are electric there may end up being on any given hour than there are now? EM: Yeah, exactly. A lot of people think they'll be able to go faster And to some degree that will be true, but once you have shared autonomy and you can go point to point, the affordability of going in a car Like, it will cost less than a bus ticket. So the amount of driving that will occur and actually traffic will get far worse. CA: You started Tesla that electrification and a few years ago, Now, not so much. EM: OK. (Laughter) I don't know. I don't know. CA: But isn't it true that pretty much has announced for the short- to medium-term future? EM: Yeah. Yeah. I think almost every automaker They vary in seriousness. Some are very serious and some are just dabbling in it. And some, amazingly, but I think that won't last much longer. CA: But isn't there a sense, though, Elon, where you can now just declare victory Let the world electrify, EM: Yeah. I intend to stay with Tesla and there are a lot of exciting Obviously the Model 3 is coming soon. We'll be unveiling the Tesla Semi truck. CA: OK, we're going to come to this. So Model 3, it's supposed EM: Yeah, it's looking quite good CA: Wow. One of the things is the fact that it's got autopilot. And you put out this video a while back showing what that technology EM: Yeah. CA: There's obviously autopilot What are we seeing here? EM: Yeah, so this is using So there's no LIDAR This is just using passive optical, The whole road system with passive optical, or cameras, and so once you solve cameras or vision, then autonomy is solved. If you don't solve vision, So that's why our focus is that's very effective for road conditions. CA: Right. Many other people You want cameras plus radar is most of it. EM: You can absolutely Like, you can probably do it just cameras. CA: So the new cars being sold right now They can't yet do what that showed. When will they be able to? EM: I think we're still on track from LA to New York by the end CA: OK, so by the end someone's going to sit in a Tesla tap in &quot;New York,&quot; off it goes. EM: Yeah. CA: Won't ever have to touch the wheel -- EM: Yeah. Essentially, we should be able to go all the way to a parking lot in New York, no controls touched at any point (Applause) CA: Amazing. But part of that is possible because you've already got a fleet You're accumulating a huge amount EM: Yes, but the thing is that I'm actually fairly confident even if you change the route dynamically. So, it's fairly easy -- If you say I'm going to be really good but it should be able to go, certainly once you enter a highway, to go anywhere on the highway system in a given country. So it's not sort of limited We could change it that day, in real time. So you were going from LA to New York. Now go from LA to Toronto. CA: So leaving aside in terms of the technology alone, the time when someone and literally just take the hands and wake up and find that they've arrived, how far away is that, to do that safely? EM: I think that's about two years. So the real trick of it say 99.9 percent of the time, because, like, if a car crashes then you're probably still not going You shouldn't be, certainly. (Laughter) It's never going to be perfect. No system is going to be perfect, but if you say it's perhaps -- the car is unlikely to crash in a hundred lifetimes, then people are like, OK, wow, I would still most likely then that's probably OK. CA: To sleep. I guess the big concern of yours get seduced too early and that you'll have some horrible EM: Well, I think that the autonomy system except in rare circumstances. The thing to appreciate is this is probabilistic. I mean, there's some chance that any time that they will have an accident It's never zero. So really the key threshold for autonomy is how much better does autonomy before you can rely on it? CA: But once you get the power to disrupt because at that point you've spoken drops you off at work, and provide a sort of Uber-like earn you money, maybe even cover the cost so you can kind of get a car for free. Is that really likely? EM: Yeah. Absolutely So there will be a shared autonomy fleet where you buy your car and you can choose you could choose to have it be used only by other drivers you can choose to share it sometimes That's 100 percent what will occur. It's just a question of when. CA: Wow. So you mentioned the Semi and I think you're planning but I'm curious whether there's EM: I will show you (Laughter) It's alive. CA: OK. EM: That's definitely a case about the autonomy features. Yeah. (Laughter) CA: We can't see that much of it, but it doesn't look like It looks kind of badass. What sort of semi is this? EM: So this is a heavy duty, So it's the highest weight capability and with long range. So essentially it's meant to alleviate And this is something which They think the truck doesn't have enough and then with the Tesla Semi we want to show that no, an electric truck actually can out-torque any diesel semi. And if you had a tug-of-war competition, the Tesla Semi (Laughter) (Applause) CA: That's pretty cool. These are going to be trucks EM: Yes. So what will be is you have a flat torque RPM curve whereas with a diesel motor or any kind you've got a torque RPM curve So this will be a very spry truck. You can drive this There's no gears. CA: There's a great movie I don't know what it is but it's a great movie. (Laughter) EM: It's quite bizarre test-driving. When I was driving the test prototype It's really weird, and you're just so nimble, CA: Wait, you've EM: Yeah, I drove it and I was like, this is crazy. CA: Wow. This is no vaporware. EM: It's just like, and making these mad maneuvers. CA: This is cool. to a kind of less badass picture. This is just a cute house What on earth is going on here? EM: Well, this illustrates that I think is how things will evolve. You've got an electric car If you look in between there are actually three Powerwalls and then that house roof is a solar roof. So that's an actual solar glass roof. CA: OK. EM: That's a picture of a real -- That's a real fake house. (Laughter) CA: So these roof tiles, some of them have in them EM: Yeah. Solar glass tiles where you can adjust to a very fine-grained level, and then there's such that when you're looking or close to street level, all the tiles look the same whether there is a solar cell So you have an even color from the ground level. If you were to look at it you would be actually able that some of the glass tiles have You can't tell from street level. CA: You put them in the ones and that makes these roofs They're not that much more expensive EM: Yeah. We're very confident plus the cost of electricity -- A solar glass roof will be less plus the cost of electricity. So in other words, this will be economically a no-brainer, we think it will look great, and it will last -- We thought about having but then people thought, well, that might sound but actually this is toughened glass. Well after the house has collapsed and there's nothing there, the glass tiles will still be there. (Applause) CA: I mean, this is cool. So you're rolling this out with four different roofing types. EM: Yeah, we're starting off and the second two CA: And what's the scale of ambition here? How many houses do you believe EM: I think eventually almost all houses will have a solar roof. The thing is to consider to be probably on the order of 40 or 50 years. So on average, a roof But you don't start replacing But eventually, to say 15 years from now, it will be unusual to have a roof CA: Is there a mental model thing that because of the shift in the cost, most houses actually have pretty much to power all of their needs. If you could capture the power, it could pretty much You could go off-grid, kind of. EM: It depends on where you are and what the house size is but it's a fair statement to say that most houses in the US to power all the needs of the house. CA: So the key to the economics of the cars, the Semi, of these houses is the falling price which you've made a huge bet on as Tesla. In many ways, that's almost And you've decided that to really, like, own that competency, you just have to build to double the world's supply with this guy. What is this? EM: Yeah, so that's the Gigafactory, progress so far on the Gigafactory. Eventually, you can sort of roughly see that there's sort of and when it's fully done, or that's the idea behind it, and it's aligned on true north. It's a small detail. CA: And capable of producing, eventually, like a hundred gigawatt hours EM: A hundred gigawatt hours. CA: And they're actually EM: They're in production already. I mean, is that speeded up? EM: That's the slowed down version. (Laughter) CA: How fast does it actually go? EM: Well, when it's running at full speed, you can't actually see the cells It's just blur. (Laughter) CA: One of your core ideas, Elon, is a future where we no longer Help us picture this. How many Gigafactories, if you like, EM: It's about a hundred, roughly. It's not 10, it's not a thousand. Most likely a hundred. CA: See, I find this amazing. You can picture what it would take to move the world It's like you're building one, it costs five billion dollars, or whatever, five to 10 billion dollars. Like, it's kind of cool And you're planning to do, at Tesla -- EM: I think we'll announce locations for somewhere between two Yeah, probably four. CA: Whoa. (Applause) No more teasing from you for here? Like -- where, continent? You can say no. EM: We need to address a global market. CA: OK. (Laughter) This is cool. I think we should talk for -- Actually, global market. I'm going to ask you one question I'm kind of sick of politics, You're on a body now EM: Who? CA: Who has said he doesn't and there's a lot of people out there They'd like you to walk away from that. What would you say to them? EM: Well, I think that first of all, I'm just on two advisory councils where the format consists and asking people's opinion on things, and so there's like a meeting That's the sum total of my contribution. But I think to the degree who are arguing in favor or social issues, I've used the meetings I've had thus far to argue in favor of immigration (Applause) And if I hadn't done that, that wasn't on the agenda before. So maybe nothing will happen, CA: OK. (Applause) So let's talk SpaceX and Mars. Last time you were here, you spoke about what seemed like to develop rockets And you've only gone and done it. EM: Finally. It took a long time. CA: Talk us through this. EM: So this is one of our rocket boosters coming back from So just delivered the upper stage at high velocity. I think this might have been delivery of the upper stage. (Applause) CA: So that was a sped-up -- EM: That was the slowed down version. (Laughter) CA: I thought that was But I mean, that's amazing, and several of these failed before you finally but now you've done this, EM: We're at eight or nine. CA: And for the first time, you've actually reflown EM: Yeah, so we landed the rocket booster and then prepped it for flight again so it's the first reflight where that reflight is relevant. So it's important to appreciate if it is rapid and complete. So like an aircraft or a car, the reusability is rapid and complete. You do not send your aircraft CA: Right. So this is allowing you of sending many, many, many people to Mars in, what, 10 or 20 years time, I guess. EM: Yeah. CA: And you've designed Help us understand EM: Well, visually Yeah, and that's the vehicle. (Laughter) CA: So if that was a skyscraper, that's like, did I read that, EM: Probably a little more, yeah. The thrust level of this is really -- This configuration is about four times CA: Four times the thrust of the biggest EM: Yeah. Yeah. CA: As one does. (Laughter) In units of 747, a 747 is only about so for every 10 million pounds of thrust, there's 40 747s. So this would be the thrust equivalent CA: And so even with a machine I think you told me last time this thing could actually people, cargo, everything, into orbit. EM: Exactly. This can take maximum passengers, this can take it as cargo. CA: So based on this, you presented recently which is visualized this way. This is a scene you picture in, what, People walking into this rocket. EM: I'm hopeful it's sort of Aspirationally, that's our target. Our internal targets (Laughter) CA: OK. EM: While vehicle seems quite large and is large by comparison I think the future spacecraft will make this look like a rowboat. The future spaceships CA: Why, Elon? Why do we need to build a city on Mars with a million people which I think is kind of EM: I think it's important to have a future that is inspiring and appealing. I just think there have to be reasons that you get up in the morning Like, why do you want to live? What's the point? What inspires you? What do you love about the future? And if we're not out there, if the future does not include and being a multiplanet species, I find that it's incredibly depressing if that's not the future (Applause) CA: People want to position this that there are so many desperate things from climate to poverty And this feels like a distraction. You shouldn't be thinking about this. You should be solving what's here and now. And to be fair, you've done with your work on sustainable energy. But why not just do that? EM: I think there's -- I look at the future It's like a branching and there are actions that we can take or that accelerate one thing I may introduce something new Sustainable energy If there was no Tesla, it would have to happen out of necessity. It's tautological. If you don't have sustainable energy, Eventually you will run out, and the laws of economics towards sustainable energy, inevitably. The fundamental value is the degree to which it accelerates faster than it would otherwise occur. So when I think, like, what is the fundamental good I would say, hopefully, if it accelerated that by a decade, that would be quite a good thing to occur. That's what I consider to be the fundamental Then there's becoming a multiplanet This is not inevitable. It's very important to appreciate The sustainable energy future but being a space-faring civilization If you look at the progress in space, in 1969 you were able 1969. Then we had the Space Shuttle. The Space Shuttle could only Then the Space Shuttle retired, and the United States So that's the trend. The trend is like down to nothing. People are mistaken when they think that technology It does not automatically improve. It only improves if a lot of people and actually it will, I think, You look at great civilizations and they were able to make the pyramids, and they forgot how to do that. And then the Romans, They forgot how to do it. CA: Elon, it almost seems, and looking at the different that you've got this unique that I find so interesting. One is this desire to work The other is the desire And often it feels like you feel With Tesla, you want so you made these super sexy, Solar energy, we need to get there, so we need to make these beautiful roofs. We haven't even spoken which we don't have time to do, but you want to save humanity from bad AI, and so you're going to create to give us all infinite memory And on Mars, it feels yeah, we need to save humanity and have a backup plan, but also we need to inspire humanity, and this is a way to inspire. EM: I think the value is very much underrated, no question. But I want to be clear. I'm not trying to be anyone's savior. That is not the -- I'm just trying to think about the future and not be sad. (Applause) CA: Beautiful statement. I think everyone here would agree that it is not -- None of this is going The fact that in your mind, you dream stuff that no one else or no one else at the level of complexity that you do. The fact that you do that, Elon Musk, Thank you for helping us all EM: But you'll tell me if it ever (Laughter) CA: Thank you, Elon Musk. That was really fantastic. (Applause)