Longtime fans of this channel will Not the Tolkien ones, you've I'm talking about Homo floresiensis, the famously tiny hominin species from Indonesia. Our short-statured cousins and only went extinct around 50,000 But even though we've been talking about here at SciShow, there are still a And probably the biggest... Is also the littlest. Why were they so small? Well, here's the long and short of it. [ INTRO] The first Homo floresiensis in the Liang Bua Cave on Flores. And I was very excited! I was 23 and I read a lot of science news... It was a mostly complete skeleton from And even though she was an adult, she or about the size of a modern She was originally estimated but newer evidence has pushed And her skull was proportional which meant her body and brain volume This was surprising for a number of reasons. For one thing, her size and brain volume who lived more than 3 million years ago. But australopiths went extinct and as far as we knew, they never left Africa. For another thing, the remains and evidence of fire and cooking big game. Someone with such a small brain doing didn't really jive with the way Which is part of why there was a ton pretty much from the second And boy, was it spicy. With only one skull, some anthropologists and said that LB1 was probably just with some sort of pathology, So rather than the species being we just happened to find one Microencephaly, dwarfism, Down and different combinations of for why LB1 was as small as she appeared to be. Meanwhile, the researchers who found wasn't pathological at all, and Papers were flying back and forth, and they did not hold back on the academic shade. One group went as far as calling Like, in quotation marks. This is like the academic equivalent of Like, it was going down! The specimens were then sent to a under a different researcher, not by the And this new researcher happened everyone saying that LB1 was pathological. This researcher would only let other examine the fossils, essentially that would confirm what he already believed. Even worse, when the bones were Some people think the damage happened but others accused the researcher who due to poor research practices. The tea was piping hot, and I, for one, demand a But, as these things tend to go, time marched In this case, LB1's humerus was discovered this individual was indeed generally tiny, They also discovered a second jaw and more And all of this pointed to the whole And since then, discoveries of even more Adding yet another layer of support discovered remains from at least three species from around the same This new species is called Homo luzonensis, and while we are pretty sure they were what size they were because of And we don't have any of their skulls, so we But still, it's evidence of another short Homo So assuming that Homo floresiensis there are really two different hypotheses for why. One idea is that, at some point, a bunch of small hominins landed The other idea is that it was a bigger and then over time, they shrunk. In other words, were they always small, Not like, a curse or something. Like, evolutionarily. That question of why they are so small would be easy to answer if we But that requires knowing who their Homo floresiensis's size is not They also have a weird mix of Their skull and face shape is pretty But their hands, feet, and shoulders And so, it is possible that their and they went through an evolutionary Insular dwarfism is a fairly common when they are isolated on islands, In fact, our Florensien friends have been elephant that's only about 70% of the size and But this process often results in the smaller like size, while still having larger So it could be that Homo floresiensis of hominins that got to Asia possibly some relative of Homo Which would turn a lot of what Like, all the evidence we was the first species to reach So if Homo floresiensis is descended that would suggest there was an even And archaeologists have actually hypothesized that made it possible for them to even reach Asia, because having long legs allowed them to cover Unfortunately, the fossil record just hasn't given us We have remains from Homo erectus about 1200 km away on the island of Java. But they're not little, and there is not much But, while the Homo floresiensis fossils we've also found stone tools there that have And someone had to have made them, so we can say that someone had to have been But between Homo erectus on there are eight hundred thousand And the only way to fill those But first, a quick break. This SciShow video is supported by with thousands of lessons in They make it fun to learn about the like programming and AI. These days, unless you change your settings, every time you search for something So if you want to understand how much and where they come from, you need that created it from the ground up. And you can do that with Brilliant. You can get started today the QR code, or the link in the description. That link gives you 20% off an annual And go ahead and take the first 30 days for free. About needing more fossils, I have some good news! In 2016, a team of researchers announced remains in a different cave They found teeth and a jawbone The jawbone was tiny, even tinier than But the jaw definitely came from an adult, Plus, it has a similar shape to a Homo an even clearer link between Homo Which is exciting, but there's only so much So while more data is always good, we still don't know anything about Or how they relate to erectus and floresiensis Then in 2024, the team announced that This time, an arm bone. Specifically, a humerus. This humerus is definitely from an adult and it is between 9 and 16% smaller It has a shape more similar to H. erectus than any of the australopiths, and the teeth that they found are also way The similarities to Homo erectus means that were Homo floresiensis not pathological, that ended up on the island and shrank down But there are still a lot of questions. After all, we only have one skull, so we can bodies and jaws were small, and we can't And it's possible that the Mata Menge specimens aren't actually the ancestors We don't have anything that and 600,000 years leaves a lot unaccounted for. But these new fossils fill in some major gaps, which could someday help us completely So when it comes to hobbits, we have back in 2003 when I first got excited about [ OUTRO]