- Hey, guys, Toby Mathis here, and today, we're going to be going over how to make yourself And I don't mean like you're or the invisible woman. What I'm talking about that I don't own all And so we're going to First off, you have to when somebody does an asset What assets are never 'cause that'll let you understand when somebody is looking at So if I'm looking at I want to know what and I want to see how what businesses you might own, boats, and all those things, anything that's titled with a third party, I don't want to be able to see that. And just me saying that, you should understand that So some of the things that like for example, if I was looking at you So I have somebody in my hey, this person owes me money, and I'm going to look to see and I'll explain how the why that's really important. But we want to see I'm going to have a list here of assets that I can typically see. So let's kind of go through I'll be able to see that if your name's in a Cars, boats, even RVs. I should be able to see, right? I should be able to see if it's titled somewhere. How about my businesses? And I'll put businesses, right? In case you have multiple Are you listed as a director All those things, I How about financial accounts? Maybe we're looking, IRA, 401k, all that? Can I see all those? Guess what? Probably not, right? That's not going to pop I might be able to see I'm just looking for anything that I could see that is something where whether or not you are a In other words, a good defendant if I'm coming after you. That's a good defendant. A bad defendant is In other words, I could get a against you, and I'll never If you're a plaintiff If you are somebody who's you definitely don't want that, right? You don't want to be You want to sue the rich guy. You want to sue somebody That's always the term you hear. Who has deep pockets? And it might be that you just don't want to be sticking out as the one that they and I'll give you guys a story that illustrates that exact point. Last thing is I might look Like this would be I will show you how to make so that if anybody ever looks at you, you're not a good In order to understand the math, I'm going to put up the and I'm going to use something which is the settlement value. In other words, I want to know what the because 99% of cases don't The vast majority are going to be settled. The vast majority, 99, probably more than 99% Most of these things So you want to know what kind So the settlement value is always of what the value of the claim is. So claim top dollar, whatever and you're going to multiply it by your percentage chance of winning. So when I say my chance of if I pursue this and I what is my chance of proving my claim by preponderance of the evidence, or if it's fraud, it might be Like there's different standards of proof depending on what the claim is. I want to know what is A lot of people think that's all you do. It is not. Then we have to look at costs. We're going to subtract off costs. And costs can be dollar costs, like, hey, depositions costs money, hiring experts costs money. It's not something your lawyer's hey, I'll just pay for it. You're going to have to They might be charging So maybe you're going to save but you're still going to have costs. You also have emotional Believe it or not that if you're going to find a lot of your time being sucked up in to it. And the other thing is what we call the three AMs. The three AMs are when you wake up in the middle of the night and and you're thinking about your case. Whether you're plaintiff or defendant, you're going to have that. So there has to be a cost And so you're saying, So let's say that my claim Let's have $100,000 claim, top dollar, hey, that's what the they look at verdicts and and they say, hey, your claim in this town is worth about 100,000 bucks, and you have a really Let's say you have a 70% chance. That's a $70,000 claim minus the costs. Let's say that the costs are 20,000. So we now have a fee but then we have to multiply it probably by the most important factor. And that is you multiply it by the percentage chance of recovery. What is my chance to actually What is my chance of recovery? Do I have insurance? Do I have something where it's 100%? So now I'm just dealing like, hey, what is it really worth? They're going to say, hey, 100,000. We think that your top And we know, hey, we know So we think it's closer to You come back at them and You're probably going to Like now it's just a matter of where are we going to be in that range, and because we have if we have the insurance. What if we don't have the insurance? What if we don't know What does this chance of recovery go to? If it goes to zero, this person We don't think we're ever It goes to zero. Guess what the value of this, the settlement value of that case is. It goes down to zero, right? Why would anybody settle? You might be able to say, So there's the nuisance value of the case. Hey, I'll just to never Is it worth it for someone just for the nuisance value? That's when you hear somebody nuisance value, hey, throw 10,000 at 'em. That's what they're talking about, 'cause there's really no value in it. What we want to do is that gets the lawsuits. Like nuisance value cases, they're seldom. Much more often, it's a shakedown, and they're looking for a deep by having all of these So if I put a big list and I see lots, lots of cars and boats, I see lots of businesses, If I see 20 rental properties, So you have to understand, how do I make it so I'm And let me give you an I'm going to change the facts up, 'cause you could actually So I'm not going to tell state it's in and I'm not going to but I'll say it was a business and there was a catastrophic Won't say who's at fault. But there was multiple parties There was an issue with insurance too as to whether it was even covered. There was partial coverage but not full coverage and we're talking about So there was multiple parties. Two of the parties were relatives. Let's just say it's two brothers. Brother one was our client, and one of the things that is make sure that they're So if you run the search, I want to make sure And I'll explain how each but I want to make it to like if somebody's trying there's not much in the public record. They're not really going Now I know what you're thinking. Hey, if I get sued, they're going they're going to ask for my tax returns, they're going to do all They're going to see it anyway. Not in the original lawsuit. If I get into a car was I negligent when I was driving? Did I cause harm? It has nothing to do with They get a judgment, then they go to supplemental proceedings, and they can start So that's generally year nowadays, three and four to go through that process. It's a long time before they as to your financial condition. What we're trying to do so that the percentage of recovery becomes a big question So the settlement value of your case stays as close as possible to up here. Like what we want to do is where somebody is saying, but I don't know if I'm going to recover. So I'm going to be on the I'm going to settle for What you don't want is the and say, I'm going to go I'm going to scare the snot out of you, and I'm going to roll and try to get some obscene amount. We're going to ask for and they're just shaking you and you're like, you wouldn't You're only doing this to me because you think that I have the money and you're just going to shake me down 'cause you think I'm rich and which happens all the time. Why am I suing you? 'Cause you have the money. So let's go back to our situation. We had a catastrophic injury, brother one. We had pretty much invisible. This was in a state where the state laws protected and 401ks actually were protected, and the homestead on the So they could potentially take a house. So we had put protections in place by taking their name off of it. So if somebody couldn't just pull up and see everything this person had. So brother one did not look Guess what happened to that first brother? They settled for the insurance. That's what we want. They had 100% chance of not much percentage chance of So they said, &quot;Hey, let's just take &quot;Let's do that.&quot; The other brother who was not our client who actually owned less assets than our client ended up They were going after everything because they could see and lots of businesses. So they put him through over trying to get more than There was other parties All of them settled out fairly quickly 'cause they didn't have anything. The two brothers, it was just interesting. Both high net worth individuals. One had invisibility, we call We made sure that their I can't pin down what you And because of that, the They were able to get out. The brother that did not have obscurity where everything was visible, the chance of recovery went back up and they were willing to 'cause there's something called All I got to do is nail one of you guys and I can get the whole judgment. So that looking at it going, I'm going to settle out with these guys, but I'm going to keep Mr. You don't want to be perceived as Mr. Moneybags or Mrs. Moneybags. You want to be perceived as the obscure. I don't know what they have. You want to be a big question Number one, can they see your The answer is yes. If your name is on that house, and see whether you have I could use a service, I could probably just but for definite, for sure, a private investigator is and they're going to see and they're going to see in any county in the United States. They'll be able to see it. So yes, they'll be able to see your house. How do I get my name off of a house? People say, oh, you can't do it. Here's how you do it. You take that house and you transfer it into something called a land trust. And a land trust, you're the name that it's held in from the beneficial use and enjoyment. It's all you're doing. Land trust have been around They came out when the that's a great example. Also Disney World used land trust. There's some states have statutes. Like I just mentioned both of those have statutes, but every state recognizes which if it owns real estate Every state recognizes land trust. If some lawyer or somebody says, oh, my state doesn't have land trust, they may not have a statute. It's in the teens how I think it's like 14 or 'cause all states recognize grantor trust. A grantor trust example, or a living trust, you guys all heard of inter-vivos Every state recognized it. That's just a grantor trust. They're the same exact type of trust, it's just we're setting So the name on the title is different than who gets to enjoy the beneficial use. Somebody might say, well, you have to list who's the beneficiary. Who's right is it to force the Oh, that's right. The beneficiary. So are you going to list We just want to keep the trustee on title, and then the question is And the trustee in this case or a fiduciary, like a lawyer or a friend. It's not going to be you. In that first one, this LLC, I could set up an LLC in a state that does not list the owners. So for example, we use Wyoming. I could set up in a state, a business that you I could use Nevada. I could use, Wyoming's cheapest right now. They don't list anything. And then I could use that as the trustee. So if somebody looks at my house, They're going to see ABC LLC trustee of the 123 main street trust or whatever you name your trust, the black frog trust or green frog trust, the blue pet or blue dog. There we go, blue dog, 'cause I like the artist that does those. We'll say, hey, we'll It's not filed with a secretary of state or anything like that. That is literally just a document that sits in your filing cabinet. And immediately, you're like, what if I have a mortgage? They're going to go freak out. There's a Garden Saint grantor trust where it's my residence, they can't call the note dues. So all you have to do is By the way, is that a public record? Are banking records a public record? The answer is no. We're going to put a big X. Nobody can see that. It's invisible. People are always like, hey, I set up a Wyoming entity, for example. My name's not listed on it, but I had to disclose my name to the bank. There actually is federal you know who the depositors are so we going to prevent money laundering and bad actors doing things But that's not a public record. I can't go search and I also can't search your tax returns. There is a president by the last name, Trump, past president, they're still trying to They've been going after him for years. I can't go into a public Now if you're in a divorce or you're in supplement of proceedings, the court may order you to so that they can pull what you report as income. They could see that, but that's not something I Like I am looking at you Defend it. I want to see what you own before I decide what the I'm trying to figure out So I'm looking at how much injury? What are the chances What are my chances of I'm trying to do an estimate of cost. I'm going to run that and I'm going to say here's of your case is, right? That's what I'm looking at. When somebody comes into the that's quite often what Now if you're not worried about the money, you're just trying to leave a mark or you're trying to establish case law that's completely different. I'm just talking about how do you keep from inviting frivolous suits or how do you keep as you accumulate assets? And that's by keeping yourself That's perfect. I can do that with my house. I can put my house in an LLC if I want. There's something called when you sell a house. You have to own it as your for two or five years prior to selling. You can avoid capital gains $500,000 if you're married. And people are always if they put it into an entity. Putting it into a land trust or putting it into a statutory trust or putting into an LLC is not going to destroy that exclusion. You still get it, it's still you. You're still the beneficial If you own the LLC, it's still you. The IRS says, oh, ignore which means you're ignoring it as though you own it individually. Even though on a public record, somebody looking at it the IRS says, eh, it's you. And there's plenty of... There's actually law on that. It's like, you don't have to worry. There's actually a revenue and the IRS is already ruled on it. You do not have to worry. The one thing you do have to worry about is let's say that I am in a where I have an unlimited on my residence, my primary residence. Nobody can ever take the I don't want to ruin that and I could ruin that by using an LLC in those particular jurisdictions. So I'm probably not going to do it. There's no reason for me to do it. But you could in other places. Like let's say it's in a state that has a really low homestead exclusion. You may say, hey, I want I want to make sure somebody can't get it, get to that equity, and foreclose on it. Then you may use an LLC. I could use a land trust and point it to an LLC out I could use a state like Wyoming where nobody can foreclose on Nobody can take it from you. The most that they could It's called a charging order. It's the sole and exclusive remedy when you're going after an LLC. So if let's say that again, Family has a large amount of real estate and they have a house that One of the kids of the family causes some severe injuries, maybe they were intoxicated or doing something they speeding, whatever, and maybe there's not or coverage is denied because So it's not too difficult Usually, like when there's 'cause it's young people. They have huge damages. They're going to far outweigh So the first thing you do is make sure you have good insurance, make sure you have an umbrella policy, but it's going to outweigh that. Like if there's wrongful of two or three people it's going to be a huge amount of money. It's going to far exceed it. And now they're looking for any assets they and they see this house and they could foreclose in that house. I've actually seen that happen. And there's nothing worse than watching somebody get If you want to make you put that in an LLC, and then the most that they could get is a lean against that, and they're standing out there saying, if you ever sell that house and distribute that income, out of the LLC, out of the LLC, guys, then you have to give it to the creditor. But I can't force it, I can't foreclose, I can't do anything. And because I'm in a jurisdiction, you have to be in a jurisdiction, you have to make sure the where they cannot foreclose on it. So you're going to be using like Wyoming. Some states have protections as well, but there's nothing quite like Wyoming. Wyoming's odd because you and they can't take it away Really, really, really hard. So that's what we would Cars, boats, and RVs. Can you get your vehicle out of the name of your personal name? Here's the thing. I'm going to say, I'm unless it's something that and it's not encumbered. Most people when they're usually there might be a loan on it or they might be leasing, which case they can't touch it at all. But generally speaking, I'm not too worried about it. And why do I say that? I have a unique perspective I worked for a liquidation company where we did the auctions we sold off property, at sheriff sales and and when the sheriff orders that's sold on the courtroom You don't get much, and a lot can happen from when the lawsuit starts to the end. You can't bank on it because the value of So let's say somebody sues you and they're going to come after you and you're worried that they're Oh my gosh, they're going to take my car. It's going to be two or What's your car going to be worth? Substantially less, and it's So it's not like they can go out there and test drive it and get it You may get to view it. A lot of times at the auto auctions, they have a red light, a green Like they're going to say, and it's not working. Yellow might be, hey, it's operating, but we're not going to be against. It's as is green is, hey, this one still maybe has a warranty on it or it's been inspected You're rolling the dice. And I could tell you that it's going to be an as is. It's like, sorry, you're getting it. Not too much value there. That's not what lawyers look at and say, hey, they have a nice car. They have a Lexus. It's not what lawyers are They may see a Lexus and say, But we need an asset that and get pretty good money for, 'cause it's foreclosures If I go through that process, then I have to go to I have to get the court and B, sell the asset. Unless I'm a secured creditor, like unless I'm the lender it's not worth it. I'm going to be spending more money than I'm ever going to I'm not too worried about that. If you want to get your name off of an RV or something like that, you can use a personal property trust. You could even use an LLC, what's the business purpose of that LLC? It's not going to hold up. I'm just doing it for smoke and mirrors. I'm just doing it to But if you have like a that you bought with cash, maybe we look at doing Otherwise, I'm not going really not worried about it. The businesses though, that's a big one. If you have businesses in your name, and especially if they're you've got a little bit of an issue. You got a bullseye on your back. How do I get a business out of my name? You may say my lawyer told me in my state that my name has to be I am a member. I am an officer director. I have to list my stuff. That's if you remain just in your state. If I want to keep your there's a really, really and let me explain how. I may say, set up your but again, let's say I have a Wyoming LLC and it has no information. I may set this up as a member-managed LLC, taxed as a corporation or whatever. And the disclosure is Well, who's the member now? The member is that Wyoming, LLC, that doesn't have your name on it. Your name is now off of that business. There's generally a way to do it. We do that primarily down here on rentals. Generally speaking, if we have rentals, we're using LLCs to own them, unless you're in like where it's 800 bucks a year for an LLC for the franchise tax, We might use a Wyoming gives you the same protection So we may go that route For rentals, we can definitely We're either using a land the beneficial interest in or using the LLC specifically. Different states have Like if I'm in Florida, I'm because we don't have the dock stamps fee, which is if you have a mortgage you have to pay tax on the mortgage. So we want to avoid that. You have to pay tax on the You do not if you use a land trust, and the land trust has the same protection and there's a statute. So what am I doing in Florida? I'm either using an LLC or if I do have a mortgage, I'm probably kind of juggling between the idea of using LLCs That's it. It's kind of they both are effective. It's do I like vanilla or chocolate? Still great ice cream, right? So I'm kind of looking at that. Like different states have little quirks. But 100%, we can get those And you're going to say again, but what if I have mortgages Your lender more than likely, if they know what you're doing, already is doing a portfolio on and already is aware of the LLCs. If they're not and it's just and you're just buying properties, then you use the land trust, 'cause anytime they see a trust, their assumption is grantor I've been doing this for 25 years. I think twice in 25 years, I've seen a mortgage company get wonky about a transfer into an It's so seldom and I since probably 2008. I haven't seen it at all. Most, everybody now is pretty familiar with what rental real estate's Once you had mold claims when that started happening, it's like, there's nobody that wants to own rental You're just asking for trouble because if there's an issue and it's in your name, they can take everything else you own. Like you've just invited the You don't want to do that. So you always put a rental You're putting in an LLC or a land trust. And yes, there's other Limited liability The LLCs aren't the only flavor. It's corporations, limited limited partnerships, limited There's different state statutes. There's 50 states, 50 different flavors of A lot of them follow kind They might have a uniform act and then some states may but you have kind of a menu, but for the most part it's going to be LLCs or land trusts. If you're doing a syndication, you might see a limited partnership. Every now and again, you depending on whether it's a but for the most part, that's what it is and that makes our life very easy. So let's kind of back up. What we're trying to do is for somebody to have to look at when they're doing their equation. So I just put the question mark there. I just want there to be and somebody looking at it, going, I am not going to base and improve this huge value because I think it's not worth because they have so much asset base. In other words, if I start this is the deep pocket, I want they're not just shaking your money tree, trying to get stuff to fall out, just because they think We don't want to invite the inquiry and this is how we do it. Generally speaking, all rental properties, we can keep them out of your name. All businesses, for the most part, now if you're a licensed business, you're a real estate agent, you're an attorney, CPA, things like that, you're not going to want In fact, you're probably to have your name on it in public record because you're licensed. What I'm talking about is or things that are operating outside, like maybe you're silent maybe you're just a member in it, maybe it's something you just own, and maybe it's holding a or maybe it has a bunch of other estate. What we don't want is someone saying, oh, he owns that business. Oh, he owns that business. Oh, he has that rental property. Oh, he owns this and and then unscrupulous lawyer or somebody who's just because they believe that and we've all seen it, we've we are preventing that from occurring by making sure that this to the extent humanly possible, and if we have to, we So let's step all the way The whole idea is security It's let's make sure that by making sure that we are And why do we want to be Because the first thing somebody does when they start doing their calculation is they want to see what And we want to make sure that when it comes to you because Hey, I just don't see a lot. I just, like does this, I That's a good issue, right, that we're not inviting the lawsuit, we're not inviting frivolous suits, we're not perceived as the deep pocket so they let everybody else go but us if there's joint liability. We always want to be in a situation where we can settle things, we can let our insurance do which is get us out of things if there is negligence, not saying don't pay things that you owe. I want to make sure I'm clear on that. What we're saying is minimize the damage that it could be caused. Don't invite things into your tent, simply because through you left everything out there visible. So if somebody does a private, like engages a private investigator to do an asset search on you, we want to make sure that what they can come back. If you want to tell hey, I'm going in for a loan, again, I'm going to a bank you're going to disclose stuff. That's not a public record. Hey, if I have money in an IRA, I can't just go and see, hey, what does Toby have in his IRA? What does Toby have in his pension? Like none of that stuff A lot of it's protected anyway. We always call it OJ money. O.J. Simpson, if you remember that, a lawsuit has a major the Goldman family for millions and they can't touch the 'cause there's statutory protections. They couldn't touch his house in Florida because there's statutory protection. He ended up getting arrested and doing a lot of time in Nevada. Now he lives in this area. There's still statutory protections even here on real estate property on pieces of property. So we're not so much worried It's just not visible. What we really care about is the stuff that isn't a public record that would be searchable like and even our primary residents and we can remove all of those. If you know what you're doing, they can remove all of so that you do not exist so that we're not inviting issues. All right. That's it. If you like this type of information, please smash the Like More importantly, gimme feedback or whether you need additional comments, like if there's something that you left with with Please do not be shy. Put it in there. This is where we get our ideas. And then also, if you know anybody who's got themself out there exposed, who keeps getting, is the like every time you turn this person's going after me they're making stuff up, that just chases them all the time 'cause they can see everything they own and they they're coming let 'em know, share this so that they can start engaging so that they're not creating issues for themselves unknowingly. Let's just put it that way. All right, guys. Thanks.