Hey, hey, what you say This is a wild style This is a freestyle This the G style, LBC style Let me talk to my nephew for awhile I didn't wanna do it I didn't wanna talk Your braids is short in the back Look like they're trying to walk To the front of your head Get into bed It's big Snoop Dogg, listen I was on MTV about a year ago They say, Snoop you I say no, give it to 'Cause he can't even handle it You understand it (crowd cheers) (bell dinging) Well, there's the reason why, you know, I got my khakis You know what I mean? 'Cause this dude out here Matter of fact, he's a hip-hop icon. Y'all make some noise, for my uncle, big Snoop Dogg! (crowd cheers loudly) - What's up? - Now, I thought it was only right, since last time you came over here, you just washed everybody, that I was gonna put you out here with my girl, Jordin, to take care of her. - I came to get busy, you understand me? (Jordin laughs) - Okay. Well, let's get it in. Now, this first game is a fun one. It's called Instaham. So we gonna have some pictures pop up and we gonna tell you what give you a fly description. If it's funny, it gets a bell. If it's un-funny, it gets that buzzer. The team with the most So y'all ready to do this? (crowd cheers) Wild Out. (crowd cheers) - When sinners go to church. - [Nick Cannon] Aye! (crowd laughs and cheers) (bell dinging) - There it is. - When the whole crew get baptized. (crowd laughs loudly) (bell dinging) - Hahaha, just keep it away from me, B. (crowd laughs and cheers) (bell dings) - [Karlous] Aye, when make you take a picture with him. (crowd laughs) (bell dings) - Told you I got black friends. (crowd laughs loudly) (bell dings) (crowd cheers) - Say cable man, I ain't got no money, but I got about a hundred Let me pay you in that. (crowd laughs loudly) (bell dings) (crowd laughs) - Man, when Mariah said she wasn't playing. (crowd laughs and cheers) (bell dings) - [Nick Cannon] I was trying to show off my $2 million shoes. - It's kind of a long caption, but. Looking like a well dressed Flamingo with your $2 million (crowd cheers and laughs loudly) (bell dings repeatedly) - All right. It's all good. DJ D-Wrek, let em' know who won that game. - I gotta give it to the platinum squad. Make some noise for the (crowd cheers loudly) - [Snoop Dogg] All right, it's strange. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls. You know, I'd like to bring Booger foot and the Five Heart Burns. (crowd laughs) And what we gonna do, we (crowd laughs) Neighbors at my door They say the music's too loud Can't stand the nosy neighbors I tried to throw a party But the cops shut it down Those mother freaking neighbors They be all in my business. I can't stand my neighbors I be tryin' to turn up They just some haters (crowd laughs) My neighbor, he is white A lace front bogus, yeah that's right Swear that we gonna have a fight We gone be on World Star late tonight Hey, neighbors at my door Say the music's too loud Can't stand the nosy neighbors I tried to throw a party But the cops shut it down Those mother freaking neighbors Can't make love to my lady They keep hitting the walls Open the door, it's 911 It's the police Neighbors Put your (beep) out, man it's the police at the door, hurry up Woop, woop, woop, woop Can't stand the nosy neighbors Can't stand the nosy neighbors, aye I can't stand the nosy neighbors, aye Can't stand the nosy neighbors, aye (crowd cheers loudly) (record scratches) [Nick Cannon] Uh. [Jordin] Hey. Uh. Big Snoop Dogg, straight But how you going crip walk with them ugly ass church shoes (crowd laughs) (bell dings) Okay, that was fresh and all But let me tell you something I can look so fresh and but let me tell you about your rap it's straight wack [Crowd] Ooh! (bell dings) You can't get it, and you don't do it I'm 'posed to do two bars but I'm bousta ruin your day Wild 'n Out, the platinum crew We came to get you, (crowd cheers) (bell dings) - We got a crowd favorite (crowd cheers) and I gotta bow down, 'cause I got my Chuck (feet stomping rhythmically) Y'all make some noise, for the west coast legend, straight from the LBC, give it up for my uncle, big Snoop Dogg. (crowd cheers loudly) - That's what I'm here for. - They don't stop screaming. - Well, let's get wild baby. - Well, let's get it wild then. (crowd cheers) - [DJ D-Wrek] Aight, black Wild out. (crowd cheers) - Check this out baby. How 'bout you slide out them store shoes and put on these (beep) shoes? (crowd cheers) (bell dings) - [Affion Crockett] Good - What up, man? - Quick question for you, LL Cool J, Snoop Doggie Dogg, Nick Cannon. Which of these rappers (crowd laughs) Take your time, take your time. - I plead the fifth. - Thank you. (bell dings) That's one for the black team. - They didn't ship enough albums. - Mr. Snoop Dogg What? - Uh, you don't, you - [Snoop Dogg] Yeah. - Put your hand right here on the Bible. Is this your first time (crowd laughs) - Well, actually it's not. I make my living in the courtrooms. Court in the streets, court in the court. It's court, baby. It's nothing. (crowd cheers) (bell dings) - Uh, yes, uh, yes, your honor. We have uh, some evidence enter into, into the file please. (crowd laughs and cheers) - Mr. Nick. Mr. Nick Cannon. Order in the court. - (female audience member screams) - Do you recognize this man? - No. (crowd laughs) - Hm? - No. - You don't recognize him? I think I know why you 'Cause this is not the real Nick Cannon. No, no, no, no, no. I happen to know you did some Photoshop, and in fact, this is the real Nick Cannon. (crowd cheers) This is the real Nick Cannon! This is the real Nick Cannon! (crowd laughs and cheers) - (beep) (bell dings) - Wow. - Oh, my (beep) from the Black Eyed Peas, what's up baby? (crowd laughs loudly) Let's get it started - If Janet Jackson invited for one night, would you - Let me tell you something about pimpin,' first of all. (crowd screaming) I'm, I'm sort of flustered Johnny Cochran, Black Eyed Peas, Gumby on the top of the head, milking a canister, leaning on my shoulder, smelling like cigarettes, (crowd laughs) Kick rocks. - Yo, the red team pled so the black team wins. Make some noise for Snoop (bell dings) (crowd cheers) - The black squad about Start the beat. - Aww yeah. - Hey Just clap your hands, y'all 'Boutta tell y'all what we Yo, ayo, ayo. Say we talkin' 'bout Georgie Porgie He kissed all the girls at the party He take them outside In his coupe As long as that broad Georgie take all the girls He's oh, so bad But honestly though, I can't be mad He took one girl I was trying to mack He did his thing Then gave her back Talkin' 'bout Georgie Porgie He kissed all the girls at the party He take 'em outside in the coupe As long as that broad Georgie Porgie, puddin' pie. He kiss the girls And make them cry D, O, double-gizzie Y I (beep) the (beep) and make them cry Talkin' 'bout Georgie Porgie He kissed all the girls at the party He take them outside in the coupe As long as that girl Aye [Nick Cannon] Come on Uh. Clap your hands y'all, West coast. Come on, come on [Snoop Dogg] Yeah, it is Clap your hands y'all Clap your hands y'all Yo, yo yo, big Snoop Dog I know you represent the hood Acting like everything You a G in a gangster way Hold up, wait. Is that Suge? (crowd cheers) (bell dings) Just testing, just testing. - Okay, can I say something? - Say what you say. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Let me just mix the game up quick And talk about Nick I heard that Nick was addicted to but let me just keep it on the low Keep it so hard I seen you on Santa Monica boulevard (crowd cheers) (bell dings) Buying a dude - I'll get Snoop. Boy you ain't that hard You need to start chilling Besides, ain't your parole (crowd cheers) (bell dings) Obi Cunningham Fool, have a seat Tryna diss Snoop Dogg I'll beat you in the street Knock off your cap Show you how to rap You a white boy, white boys don't rap (crowd cheers) (bell dings) What. Aight. Uh. It's like a blue sleeve movie. Wanna say that right I could come with the I could do this too Rap after you But you don't want to get on me Yeah, I know you're Big Snoop But it's the Cannon Understand it (beep) flow Now to take it like this 'Cause you know I'm the fet And I'll never be scared (crowd cheers) (bell dings) - [Snoop Dogg] Okay. Hey, hey, hey Hey, hey, hey Hey, hey, what you say This is a wild style This is a freestyle This the G style, LBC style Let me talk to my nephew for awhile I didn't wanna do it I didn't wanna talk Your braids is short in the back Look like they're trying to walk to the front of your head Get into bed It's big Snoop Dogg Listen to the words that I said I was on MTV about a year ago They say Snoop, you I say no, give it to 'Cause he can't even handle it You understand it (crowd cheers) - I quit. (bell dings repeatedly) - Yo, there's nothing for me to say. (crowd cheers) The black team took that one. Make some noise for the