You unlock this door with the key of dimension: a dimension of nostalgia, a dimension of entertainment, a dimension of grief. You're moving into a of mourning and celebration. You've just crossed over into... the Hollywood Graveyard. Hello, Mr Serling. 60 years ago, in 1959, audiences took dimension whose boundaries are that of an area between light and shadow. The Twilight Zone was the all-time greats in the annals of When Serling began writing, television scene in the 50s with dramatic hits like before surprising audiences by series. In that era sci-fi was seen as a behind Sterling's decision to stray from did was granted him a degree of freedom enjoyed before. He could write stories context of robots, aliens, and the he could avoid sponsor and censor October 2nd 1959 and was an immediate that time Rod Serling wrote or adapted distinctive punctuated voice, cigarette Serling became the unwitting star of the appearances at the beginning of most events that were about to transpire... in the Twilight Zone. The Twilight Zone would not only pave the way but set the standard for all TV It's considered one of the greatest, most In 1975 Rod suffered a series of heart attacks. In June of that year he but suffered another died two days later. He was only 50. He was buried here in Interlaken, New York not far from Cayuga Lake, location of his production company. He left us far too soon, trove of entertaining and able to enjoy for generations. And the incarnations to this very day - a true &quot;Respectfully submitted from an is one of the slopes leading to the Thank you for all the wonderful Portrait of a man obsessed with For the better part himself wandering graveyards to In just a moment Mr. Dark will board a back to the stars of Hollywood, so many regions of the Twilight Zone. The Angeles but for Mr. Dark, the train will deep in the heart of the Hollywood Graveyard. Ticket, please. Oh, yes. Where are we headed today, Mr.Dark? Los Angeles. End of the line. You have a long journey ahead of you. Well it gives me time to work on my Oh you're a filmmaker? Well, uh, a YouTuber. Ah, well, safe travels Mr. Dark. Oh boy, where to begin? There are so many. Oh, hello. You forgot someone. I haven't even started yet. Why? Well, if you must know, I'm not really sure where to start. Where are your Why don't you start at the beginning? Weren't you just...? Look, kid, don't bother me. I gotta lot of work to do, alright? Start at the beginning huh? Hollywood graveyard was born at Forest our first tour video there in 2017. As an many of the great actors of the era were as well as some new faces that would have revisited who had a featured role The rugged western star of such classics seen in his younger, pre-mustachioed &quot;The Grave.&quot; Since this is a job you're gonna be sure that you've done it? What do you mean? Well what's to keep you from going edge of the graveyard, us you've gone all the way? When the Twilight Zone ventured by making an homage to silent to get to play the lead role than one of Buster Keaton. The episode follows Keaton, who not-so-silent 60s... and hilarity ensues. Not far from where Buster lies is the His journey through the Twilight Zone was memorable, when he's haunted by a talking My name is Talky Tina, Just a few miles away in Glendale is the original Forest Lawn are laid to rest. Ed Wynn, Wonderland and Mary Poppins, made two second episode of season one he's episode &quot;Ninety Years Without Slumbering, to a grandfather clock. Now look, mister, I can't let But don't you see? Look, don't you see and if that stops I'll die I'll really die. Laid to rest here with character actor. He too made an His episode was not only memorable for being the only episode in which Rod Serling narrative of the story and not just as In real life such ridiculous Rod... You shouldn't. In the Columbarium of Memory here in the Jack Carson, of Mildred Pierce fame. In Jack finds himself in the unfortunate used-car salesman cursed to only tell What else have you got? Oh what else? Well, I'll... I haven't anything else Everything in this lot should have been Out to the grounds of the cemetery is the grave of William Demarest, for playing uncle Charlie on the TV Zone the TV was not so kind to Mr. Demarest, who sees in it his own indiscretions. Can't you hear? Can't you see? Look! It's a trick! It's a trick! The badgering wife who torments William's television itself is Joan Blondell, who of the Evening Star. The actress, also be seen in the episode titled What did ya see, Joe? Lady wrestlers? What do you see, Joe? A burlesque show? Fan dancers from Yonkers? Many know Ted Knight as Ted Baxter from the Mary Tyler Moore Show. But if you keep your eye out in the season 1 episode &quot;The Lonely,&quot; you'll spot Ted prisoner whose jail cell is an asteroid - How about it, Allenby? The sentence reads 50 years. And they're not You've been here for years now, so that makes 46 Cyril Delevanti was one of the few Zone more than just one or two times. British actor with a big smile: &quot;Passage &quot;The Silence,&quot; and &quot;A Penny for your How did you know? How did you know, Mr. Poole? It's true, of course, I was thinking of filling my briefcase with From one of the biggest to one of the smallest cemeteries in Hollywood, the Park has more stars per capita than Marilyn Monroe. James Coburn, who won an commanding screen presence. That presence 5 post-apocalyptic episode, &quot;The Old Man There is no old man in the cave. He's a lie. He's a concoction. Nobody's seen him, Nobody knows who he is or where he's from. Just feet from Coburn is the He was the star of the episode, Well, I won't spoil it for you. But let's wonderfully shocking twist endings that This is the way nightmares begin, or Incredible, and yet so terribly real that with them, and adjust them, In this same fountain garden is the niche of Jack Klugman. The Odd Couple four appearances in the Twilight Zone, in episodes, including the heart-wrenching Pip. You can't leave me now. You can't go away from me now. Pip! Peter Faulk's Detective Columbo is one of But with a beard and an accent Falk who plays a central American &quot;The Mirror.&quot; A mirror that reflects the faces Isn't that intriguing. Richard Conte, famous for his role as unsettling stroll through one of his in the episode &quot;Perchance to Dream.&quot; Don't fall asleep, Don't be afraid. I'm not. Then come. You are afraid. Only because this isn't Sebastian Cabot had one of those voices built for narrator on Winnie the Pooh. But in talents were used to slightly more Look, I don't belong in heaven, see? I want to go to the other place. Heaven? Whatever gave you the idea you Jonathan Harris was a perfect fit for his role in the episode &quot;Twenty-two.&quot; The actor, who played series Lost in Space, played a doctor in the Twilight Zone. Well, Doc, what's it gonna be tonight? Big discussion about Freud and dreams? You don't seem interested in Inn this story you recount you To Hillside now, a Jewish cemetery appearances on The Twilight Zone before The actor who would forever be known for his series had a very small role in the Short. Yards: 5-0. Short. Yards: 5-0. That's right, still. They say that's their limit. Not far from here, in the Garden of The actor who is best known for stage did crazy better than just about episode &quot;Four O'Clock.&quot; That's what I'll do. into little ones. You understand? I'll make every evil man three, no two... two feet tall. And that should do it for Hillside. Wait, you forgot one. What? Who? You forgot Jack Benny. Jack Benny? Are you serious? What's your name, kid? Jeremy. Jeremy, Jack Benny was No but the Twilight Zone was Yeah. The Twilight Zone was indeed on the Jack the most popular shows on television Benny Program, so perhaps it was meet in a hilarious mashup, where Benny town whose mayor is none other than Where... where am I? Oh there's a sign. Twilight Zone? Your honor? Yes I'm the mayor of this town. As a matter of fact they I'm Mr. Zone. Benny is entombed here in There, Jack Benny. Happy? Yes. Not far from Hillside is Fans of I Dream of Jeannie fondly remember Hayden Rorke as comedic foil, Look for him in the &quot;A Penny for Your Thoughts,&quot; alongside Bewitched actor, I'll put half of it on and split the rest between Nimble Runner and Nimble Runner? 5 to 1? What did you say? Hollywood Forever is the cemetery that perhaps most fully embraces its place in Another Bewitched actor who made an David White. He played Larry Tate on was a loving father in search of a for his children in the episode &quot;I Sing We have perfected an Well what does that mean, daddy? An electronic data processing system A woman? Yes, sort of a robot. Down this same is the niche of actress Celia Lovsky, who was once married to Peter Lorre. The Vienna-born actress seen in Draper in the episode with an ancient Can you imagine what it was like to see her while my mirrored image grew Joan Hackett is famous here at Hollywood Forever for her unique epitaph. The the season 3 episode, &quot;A Piano in the quite an unusual effect on people. You beast. I've controlled myself for six years, Mickey Rooney had been performing in decades before this memorable turn on Known for his Mickey McGuire short films Rooney showcased his dramatic acting room episode, &quot;The Last Night of a Jockey.&quot; You really are a dumb little runt, Oh excuse me that's what you Runt? Or was it shrimp?is rocker where was it Why don't you get out of here? Mt. Sinai Cemetery is adjacent Here in Maimonides section is Ross master of disguise Artemus Gordon in The played one character with multiple faces. Check out the episode &quot;The Four of Us Are Johnny are you a ghost? Sure, a ghost. I just came down to check the How'd they feel about the deceased huh? What kind of tears? Jesse White is perhaps best known today as the Maytag repairman, so it's the Twilight Zone episode with Buster Carol Burnett's guardian angel in the I'm an angel. Don't you worry about it. I daydream a lot myself. Miss Grep, wouldn't you at Eleanor Audley never appeared in the hers is one of those iconic, inimitable Disney villains, including Maleficent. hitchhiker in the Twilight Zone, she the other end is Eleanor. Who's this? It's all been very sudden. Nan was killed just six days ago in an A tire blew out and her One of the great legends of comedy rests of insult comedy, Don Rickles. An odd fit Hardly. One can find humor in even the And Rickles worked his acerbic &quot;Mr. Dingle, the Strong.&quot; Wait wait wait a minute, Dingle, bygones being bygones? In the episode, &quot;The Arrival,&quot; a plane lands pilots, crew, and passengers. Harold J investigator who must unravel the Gentlemen I have a theory. Unfortunately the only way it is going to put me in Any one of you ever hear of mass suggestion? So? I think that's what we're There's someone you're forgetting. What did you say? I said, is there something I can get you? Oh. No, thank you, I'm fine. Say, what happened to that little boy that was bouncing Boy? Yeah, uh, Jeremy. No little boys traveling in this car. In fact, Are you alright? Fine, just tired I guess. It's getting late. No, I've got to finish this. Now, where was I? San Fernando Mission, a Catholic cemetery Even the man who was the voice of stumbling into the Twilight Zone. Henry Corden played Sanchez in the Unidentified aircraft, or something, crashed into the hills north of our village Pat O'Malley was a prolific character are three turns in the Twilight Zone, in &quot;Walking Distance,&quot; as old man Wilson. Mr. Wilson? Yep Charlie? We're going to need some I'll order some more of it this Penny Singleton, who was buried here with on radio and in 28 motion pictures. Her facilitated by a husband, played by John and wartime sound scapes. And I respond, following nautical phrase, which I have implement. The phrase is: lay aft, and dump consider yourself dumped! Not even sunny Twilight Zone's haze. Before Doug McClure played the cowboy Trampas' in the Western series, shootout with Mr. Denton on Doomsday. It You Denton? That's right. I hear you're supposed to be fast. You got a good chance to find out. I aim to. Angelus Rosedale is one of the oldest cemeteries in the Los Angeles Serling's breakout hit, the TV drama Serling brought Sloane into the Twilight a one-armed bandit. Franklin. Did you say something? What? Did you call my name? Why no, dear. Mountain View boasts one of the most beautiful mausoleums around. In the courtyard outside the mausoleum is the crypt of Hugh Sanders. Twilight Zone: as Cronk in &quot;Of Late I &quot;The Jungle,&quot; and as Jerry Potter I'll tell you something: I'd rather they go after it's one of those pocket Not a skulking, crummy tin fish There's one more. Last fall we spent some time exploring there too we found a handful of stars from including Martin Landau. The actor, known for his role as starred in two episodes of The Twilight and &quot;The Jeopardy Room.&quot; Listen to the following these are the rules. You have been asleep I have placed a booby trap in this room. Lois Nettleton, buried here at helped us appreciate a in the episode, 'The Midnight Sun,&quot; where steadily moving closer and closer to the I keep getting this crazy thought. This crazy thought that I'm gonna wake I'll wake up in a cool bed. Kensico Cemetery is where we find The gruff character actor played one of and an overbearing boss, Mr. Misrell, who the edge in &quot;A Stop at Willoughby.&quot; Push push push, Williams! Get with it, boy! Push push push, Williams! Finally, in the mausoleum at Montgomery Ohio, rest the mortal remains The Oscar-nominated actress who had a thunderous spell in The Her performance all the more impressive in that she held us in suspense and horror And that concludes our tour. What are some of your favorite And we are done! One more... One more... One more... One more... You forgot one, Arthur. Where are you? I swear, if you tell me I forgot Well, did you? Now...I... I don't know. Maybe. There are so many, I... we've covered all the stars from Only people you've already visited? Maybe there are a few more that that we've not yet profiled. Yes, you're right. You're right. If we head back to Woodlawn including Marshall Torrance in The played a newspaper editor in a town This is not the first gallows, Reverend, He won't be the first unhappy man And we won't be the last mourners on Earth, either. We find ourselves back again at Hillside Cemetery Here lies Shelley Berman. The legendary misanthropic Archibald Beechcroft in the Preying on you now, isn't it? I mean the quiet, Well, the thing of it is... it's just that, while I don't care much for people, Valhalla cemetery is in North Hollywood. Do you remember the episode, &quot;Nightmare at 20,000 Feet,&quot; where a neurotic William only one able to see a gremlin on the A gremlin hell-bent on destroying the plane? The man in the furry gremlin Hurry! Hurry! Returning once again to actor a Richard Basehart, who played Adam space who finds himself stranded on a and also finds himself not alone. My name is Cook. I crash-landed here. I cracked place to go and all the time The Beth Olam Mausoleum is at Joseph Schildkraut was an known for films like He appeared twice in the Twilight Zone: and in &quot;Deaths-Head Revisited,&quot; were the ghosts of the Holocaust remind You tried to kill everyone who was left. So I think it would be a waste of time, A waste of your precious time In the Twilight Zone, us the biggest chills, like young actress episode, &quot;Nightmare as a Child.&quot; Do you remember now about Markie? Yes, I remember. And the time you burnt your arm? The place is Carpinteria Cemetery Introducing John Dehner, but thrice in the Twilight Zone: as Richards in &quot;The Jungle,&quot; and the title This is the kind of town that can Well what sort of services you supply? I bring back the dead. Ending back where we started the actor who appeared, by no The Twilight Zone than any other actor. Robert McCord appeared in since a good background, but it's more than 30, with Among his few credited roles are as &quot;The New Exhibit,&quot; and as the sheriff in &quot;A There, done. Jeremy? No, I haven't. No no no, stop it, there aren't any more! Stop it! Stop it, enough! Enough there aren't any more! Stop it! Stop it! Why are you doing this to me? You mustn't forget anyone. That is everyone. It takes more than great actors to Of course! The writers! It was the writing In fact one of the first things Rod Serling up was to recruit a number of talented fantasy genres. And the ever gracious for the success of the show with them. To three writing gremlins named George Clayton Johnson, and Dick the cooky Twilight Zone, many thanks like a turkey. Thank you so much! What Charles Beaumont was a sense of the morbid and Beaumont was second only to Serling in like &quot;Perchance to Dream,&quot; His fascination with death may have stemmed perhaps a haunting premonition of what While working on the Twilight Zone Beaumont neurodegenerative disease. In later required a ghostwriter to finish his took his life at the age of 38 just a George Clayton Johnson didn't have the Richard Matheson. But he still had a his more sentimental stories like Logan's Run writer had seven of his Twilight Zone, including &quot;The Four of Us and &quot;A Penny for Your Thoughts.&quot; And it's true they say: A legend doesn't die because the man does. Ray Bradbury was perhaps the fiction writer around when the Twilight was intended the Bradbury would have a only one of his scripts was made, &quot;I Sing Bradbury were a major influence on getting Beaumont and Matheson connected Bradbury story was made, his influence Montgomery Pittman was not only a writer He wrote and directed three &quot;Two,&quot; and &quot;The Grave.&quot; He directed two and the fan favorite, &quot;Will the Real Martian Mr. Pittman now rests here Ah, no no no, don't. I know. One more. Make-up! You remember William Tuttle? mausoleum at Woodlawn in Santa Monica. He was the principal on the Twilight Zone. He's the man who crafted some of the iconic creatures, aliens, and monsters in &quot;Eye of the Beholder,&quot; the masks the characters and the gremlin in And that I'm disappointed in you Arthur, You've forgotten one of the most iconic Yes. Of course! The music! That eerie, unsettling music, very first episode by Bernard Herrmann. We found Mr. Herrmann in Beth David Cemetery. One of the truly Hollywood history, Herrmann is perhaps best Hitchcock on films like Psycho, Vertigo, Herman's style was a perfect fit for the He wrote the original opening theme There is a fifth dimension, beyond that And his original scores for episodes like &quot;Walking Distance,&quot; &quot;Eye of the Beholder,&quot; stand alongside Just as The Twilight Zone had a rotating array of the best composers working in Among them was Jerry Goldsmith. He's known today for scores like Star Trek some memorable music to the Twilight throughout the series like some of the handful of episodes, including &quot;Back There.&quot; But the most iconic piece of music, the with the Twilight Zone... that dissonant Did you know? It wasn't even written for The music was a stock library piece, two pieces actually: Etrange #3, written by avant-garde composer Marius the CBS music library. They spliced iconic opening theme which was used from end of each episode. You unlock this door The music has since become synonymous with But for years Constant was unaware that his no royalties from it, despite it being Marius Constant died in 2004 at the Cimetiere Parisien d'Ivry. So that's it! I finished the tour! No, Arthur, there is still one more. You forgot one. There's one more, Arthur. There's someone you're forgetting. You forgot one, Arthur. - There's one more! What's going on? Why we stopped? We've reached your final destination, Excuse me. Where are we? I'm sorry could The next stop He made videos about famous graves. But now his is the grave tourists visit. His name was Arthur Dark. No, it can't be. I'm right here Can't you see me? Can't you see me? I'm I'm right here! I'm right here! I'm right here! Can't you see me? I'm right here!! Next we're gonna head down the hallway to I'm right... here. And that concludes our tour. Mr. Arthur Dark: once host, now a The Hollywood Graveyard. Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard.