- Airships seem like a bad idea. Exhibit A. (bright upbeat music) - It's the greatest of came out of the disaster alive. - The Hindenberg was filled with over 200 million liters of hydrogen but it also had an iron oxide on its outer shell, two of the ingredients that make thermite, a mixture that undergoes such a strongly exothermic reaction, it is used to weld train tracks together. But even if airships weren't encased in questionable coatings, they would still seem like a bad idea because they are big and slow. But right now, a handful of are competing to build a So why are they doing it? I came across the following argument in a blog by Eli Dourado so I wanted to explore it. Think about how goods, all are transported around the U.S.. A large amount of money is spent moving things around by airplane but this doesn't translate because air transport is really expensive. It's the fastest way to get something from one place to another but you pay a premium for that speed. If you want to save money, you can transport your goods in and around the country Still, since it's significantly cheaper, far more goods are transported this way and more money is spent on it overall. Rail provides an even better option. It's faster than ships so more goods are sent by train than by air and water combined. But by far the way that most is by truck. What's interesting about are not as fast as planes, they take several days to They are also not as cheap as ships but the combination of speed and price puts them in this sweet spot which is why they transport They are like the baby bears just right. Now consider how goods are The only options are planes and ships. Again, a lot of money is but because it's so expensive, the actual volume of goods is low. And most goods, both in are sent via ocean freight. But what if there were a third option; faster than ships and cheaper than planes? It seems likely that most truck-like method of transport. Airships could be this option. (bright upbeat music) They could be the trucks of the sky. (bright upbeat music) They would transport cargo rather than a month for freighters. And theoretically, they would than sending goods by plane. And they would achieve all this while emitting significantly See, while planes get and so they need to burn a lot of jet fuel just to stay in the air, airships get their lift The buoyancy of lighter-than-air so they don't need to move As a result, modern airship can reduce carbon But for airships to become they would have to carry a lot of weight and historically, that has of airships but that's The lift of an airship depends on the volume of light of so lift is proportional to radius cubed. Whereas drag depends on a and wedded area, that is basically the So it's proportional to radius squared. This means the bigger you make an airship, the more efficient it becomes. Lift goes up proportional to radius cubed whereas drag only goes up So there's a cubed squared Want to boost the We'll just double it in size. The area grows by a factor of four the volume by a factor of eight. So your lift to drag ratio doubles. If that's not enough, To make airships the trucks of the sky, we'd need to build the largest airships There are three different The first is a blimp, which is basically a and motors attached. Like a balloon, it is over-pressurized Therefore, the skin of a As the blimp becomes larger, Moreover, it becomes for larger blimps to maintain their shape. So you can't scale up blimps forever. The second option is semi-rigid. Just like a blimp, the yet now there's some to maintain the shape. The last variety is a rigid body airship. These have an internal structure Inside the hull, there filled with a lifting gas In this case, the gas cells so making them larger is no issue. The great thing about rigid airships is that they don't run into Want a bigger airship? Just scale up the structure In fact, the weight of the as a fraction of the total weight, so rigid airships scale even So it's this last option that is best suited for the cargo market. And that's what Eli proposes: to build a 388 meter long rigid airship to conquer the cargo market it would be capable of at a speed of 90 kilometers per hour. That's enough to carry at the speed you drive down the highway. If built, it would be the both in size and in how Not bad for an airship. But to take a significant you don't need just one airship, you need a fleet of thousands constantly moving goods around the globe. And if they take over half of the ocean freight container market at a price comparable to trucks, say 10 cents per ton kilometer, that would equal $650 And if that was all served by one company, it would be the biggest company Bigger than Apple or Amazon or Walmart. So who is building these monster airships? Well, at the moment, no one. This part of the video Just like airships, many can be hard to get off the ground but the first step is always the same, you just have to get started. And whether you want to or a side hustle, one easy way to get started This signals to the world and yourself that you And if you want a fast, free and easy way to launch your own website, then check out this Just answer a few simple questions, select your favorite theme and builds the core website for you. Then you simply go to Want to add an image? Just select the image block and drag it to where you want it. Next, click Replace to swap or if you don't have an image, just pick one of their free to use images. Adding a new page is also really easy. Just click New and add a the blocks you want and you're done. With Odoo, making your own On top of that, Odoo also offers to email marketing apps which with your website. With Odoo, your first including unlimited hosting and support and a free custom domain So head over to odoo.com/r/veritasium or click that link down in the description to start building your own website today. I want to thank Odoo for While transporting cargo is probably the largest it's also one that's driven and low margins. And that's not ideal when you to first build, develop, What you want is a market and better margins. This is the Airlander 10, and it's built by the U.K. Can you tell me about the - They'll be going on extraordinary So going to the North going over the Amazon, knowing that they're making being able to travel in some luxury and see things that you - The first trips are scheduled Want to go on this trip, well, because getting a cabin for two will cost you about $200,000. And while a few companies are focusing on the luxury travel markets, of another unique advantage of airships. Think about what it normally Trucks need roads, ships trains need railways and stations and planes need long runways and airports. Airships on the other hand, require very little infrastructure. The most important thing they need is a reasonably flat surface to land on, like grass, sand, ice or even water. And it's this unique to deliver goods where or plane can go. Airships can connect parts of the world that have been disconnected in Canada or Alaska and they can do this with Or what if the roads, rails by a natural disaster? Help is urgently needed to but there seems to be no way to get there and no methods of communications Well, then airships could to deliver rescue workers and supplies or to provide cellular Disaster relief missions like which is backed by Google is focusing on and they're Their current prototype, the Pathfinder 1, has completed multiple indoor flight tests and it's scheduled to fly outside sometime in the next few months. They plan to take the lessons and build a series of airships that can provide help to Other times, roads may be available but what you're transporting just isn't that compatible with roads like long, clunky and To get them from the requires careful planning and perfectly choreographed maneuvers and this process is what often limits the size of wind turbines. Airships don't have that problem, they can simply mount to the bottom and carry So it's much faster, easier and it allows you to build Plus airships can also easily that are hard to move. But sometimes instead of delivering goods, you need to pick them up. France is full of natural yet many of their forests so they can't actually extract the wood they've chopped down. The French company Flying whales, backed by the French government They are developing this that's capable of It was designed to be able and pick up logs which and turned into timber. But loading and unloading from the sky comes with significant problems. For starters, you need to make your airship stays still which is more difficult than it sounds. - So a very large airship Even a relatively light current of wind when multiplied by a is going to have a huge effect, that makes airships difficult to control especially close to the So they are a little bit unwieldy. - To overcome this, the airship all around the hull that can stabilize it. But still this limits to places with stable weather. A bigger problem comes why airships work in the first place. And this issue is particularly See, when an airship is the combined weight of are offset by the lift. The problem arises when because now the airship and so it wants to shoot up into the sky. So you need some way to - Unless we can solve that problem, we're kind of dead in the water in terms of airships for cargo. - A few methods have been The easiest one is to decrease The only issue is that most And to offset say 60 tons of weight, you would need to release about 54,000 cubic meters of helium which costs a few Not to mention that helium is scarce, so venting it isn't Now, you could use propellers but that ends up burning so much fuel, it negates much of the advantage of using airships in the first place. - The real dream has been to compress and decompress lifting gas and when it is in gaseous form, it lifts. When it is compressed, but there are some real So you're talking about with a very large volume of lifting gas, now you need a compressor that's capable of compressing a tremendous and that is just a technological problem we haven't really developed them. - Until then, the short-term solution is to replace the weight you're releasing. So if you're dropping 60 tons of supplies, you need to pick up 60 tons of ballast. If you want to pick up 60 tons of wood, you'd carry 60 tons of say water on board and release it at the pickup location. But there's another innovative and it's the secret behind It relies on a combination and aerodynamic lift created by its hull. - We can lift the whole with the helium inside when you're flying, that weighs nothing. - And the aerodynamic lift is just there to lift the payload. - So if we've, say, got we take off like a conventional aircraft, just at very low speed and we to lift those people. The advantage then is that and those people get 'cause we used aerodynamic lift which you can turn on and off. - While hybrid airships work well for relatively light payloads, they're not ideal for over long distances because of using free lift to So for a large cargo airships, the current best solution is to replace the weight you're releasing. But there are harder problems to make airships the trucks of the sky. See, no one has ever built a So how do you do it? Well, normally airships are to protect them from the elements. But the largest airship was only 360 meters long. So it wouldn't even fit. And since you need to build you either have to find a way of fragile airships outside of the world's largest hangers. If that wasn't hard enough, there's also another problem because each one of those with over one million cubic Which raises the age old question, do you use hydrogen or helium? - Helium's really expensive and it has a lower lifting ability, right? Hydrogen's really cheap - After the Hindenburg burned the choice seemed obvious. Only inert helium should The Federal Aviation Administration agreed and hydrogen as a lifting gas has been banned for many years now. But what many people don't realize is that of the 97 people on board, more than 60 miraculously survived. Just a few years earlier, crashed off the coast of New Jersey killing 73 of the 76 people on board. And that airship was filled with helium. So perhaps the issue wasn't that hydrogen airships maybe we just didn't know I mean, we also didn't know and now they're one of And for any plan that includes building and filling thousands hydrogen is the only realistic option because helium is too Hydrogen, on the other hand, and it provides about 8% more lift. And then there's the - In general, certificating is a really lengthy and expensive process. If you're talking about not only are you talking you're talking about a No one has certificated well, sort of ever. - Combine that with building the world has ever seen and filling it with tremendous amounts and you've got yourself But all of these problems because it might not be possible to build a 500 ton - I mean, the most important is needs to be light, it needs to be strong, it needs to have really but it needs to be light or there's no point. And at a certain point of size, to create the structural integrity you need to operate safely, you know, you reach a just intersect in a bad way. So there is a structural size limitation due to weight issues. - So how large is that size? We are not sure. What we do know is that around the world are the next generation of airships. For now, none of them are the trucks of the sky. Instead, they're focusing have a distinct advantage; markets with less competition Who knows, perhaps as airships mature, one company will take the leap and set out to develop It certainly won't be easy, Do you think we'll see a future where we've got these airships - I know it may sound - It won't be very, very long before we get to see some stuff in the sky which will make a lot have really big smiles and for the great airships of the past. - It's very hard to break into that the world's not ready for. I mean, there are many other things that have become normal And there's no reason why this shouldn't. - I hope when that day to come along and at least take a look, if not have a ride in it. (soft upbeat music)