As you probably know, internal combustion engines engines in passenger cars can do a thermal do a bit above 40% but they need complicated be as clean as their gasoline counterparts. An content of the fuel only 35% gets converted lost to internal friction inside the engine, but *sad vacuum cleaner noises So why is so much energy wasted? why Well, as you probably know a four-stroke engine and exhaust. Each of these is 180deg of crankshaft The problem we have is that all of the it is only the combustion stroke which is All the other strokes are more or less more time and space to actually harness longer combustion stroke, then the engine would stroke isn't long enough is made very obvious which we can see and hear as heat and noise more energy from the exhaust then there would be It is in fact a common misconception that it exhaust gas out of the cylinder during the exhaust combustion stroke is over and the exhaust stroke exhaust gas that its pressure is anywhere between So it's at around 4 to 6 bar or somewhere between 58 have enough time, enough length, enough space to or the expansion stroke if you will, and so when they're so highly pressurized, they're actually Most vacate the cylinder easily by themselves before energy is left in the exhaust gas. One of the ways compression ratio. Now, the compression ratio the largest cylinder volume. The smallest volume the very top of its stroke. The largest cylinder So if the smallest volume is 10 units and the largest cylinder volume is 100 units of If we increase the compression ratio to 12:1 that we are changing the ratio between these the space when combustion starts, we are making during which combustion energy is harnesse,d the So by increasing the compression ratio we harness the energy of combustion, which of course in how much we can increase the compression reduce the space where we are compressing the and if we squeeze the air-fuel mixture too to knock and this destroys an engine. But even if in diesel engines, there is still a limit to how at some point the space becomes very very small, the combustion is being transferred very violently now very close to the combustion. So to avoid the and the connecting rod and the crankshaft more them heavier. This is exactly what happens in which are heavier and so they can't rev as high. ratios and why we can't increase them too much, temperature becomes very very high and this leads limited with what we can do with the compression efficiency. Of course the ideal thing would be stroke longer than all the other strokes. That way the engine would spend more time harnessing energy and less time wasting it, but as we know unequal stroke lengths and this is precisely why traditional engine anatomy and created a brand combustion stroke. Atkinson's engine was indeed of delicate and fragile which made the engine to increased RPM operation. Even the inventor Nicolaus Otto wanted to increase the length of of his design and wanted to improve efficiency. take on another approach. Instead of inventing a to rely on existing proven engine anatomy and cylinder to harness the energy remaining in the exhaust gas. The engine known as the Verbund Motor had 3 cylinders. The outer two cylinders were high pressure low pressure cylinder. The outer cylinders, the high They do intake, compression, combustion exhausting the gases into the atmosphere the high pressure cylinder where the fifth stroke, now remaining in the exhaust gas is used to drive the middle piston downward. So instead of wasting energy we are using this energy to create longer like with the Atkinson, this design simply effectively is given twice the time to harness which of course improves efficiency. Well, all Otto and Gottlieb's engine was a failure. It was poor performance so production was discontinued. technology from the late 1800s. And so the design 124 years until in 2003 it was awakened by Belgian patent for a five-stroke engine design which Now, according to Wikipedia Schmitz's design was 1942 and another from 1975, be that as it may, Mr turn his vision into reality. Of course, getting turning that concept into a running working managed to do something very impressive, turn his idea into reality, and that company is but Ilmor engineering is nothing like one of the Ilmor engineering has been founded in very serious company, because among other things Indy car racing, engines for Sauber and Mercedes and in 2009 Ilmore's marinized version of Championship. By the way, this engine called while meeting new strict emission in Europe this engine was the highest-rated in existence. So when a company like this takes on gives the project credibility and high hopes of just four years later we got a fully working the prototype engine had three cylinders. Two outer It made 130 horsepower at 7,000 RPM and 166 Newton meters of displacement with a fuel consumption of a very a reputable company we didn't get the kind of nowadays, you know stuff like twice the balls, None of that. Ilmor were actually realistic with 20% lighter and 10% more fuel efficient than any the engine did have the power of a much larger an equivalent turbo diesel engine, but without the The beauty of this design lies in the engine balance because the two outer pistons are balance each other out. And number two, the great technology. Conventional rods, pistons, crankshaft invest massive amounts of research and development any other hardware. The engine got an official after which it got a fair bit of media attention and then After a period of complete silence and total lack of development, it was later found that Gerhard Schmitz left Ilmor engineering took the patent rights with version of the five-stroke engine with a team modified version which also offered promising test like the Ilmor engine this version of the five and it quickly faded Into obscurity never the five-stroke engine it is obvious that solution to an existing problem, and it also relies So upon first glance it is pretty hard to Well, there are three reasons. Number 1, be mentioned is that Ilmore was not entirely honest classified as a 700cc engine and that's because cylinders is counted. The displacement of the inner occurs in that cylinder so it's not classified classified as having 700 cc. If we count the inner so although it is classified as 700 cc it is still physically, in terms of size and how much space it occupies, it is a physically a 1.5 L engine. And it to harness the last little bit of exhaust gas the engine. So although the claim that it is lighter true the engine was also more complex and more I believe that the engine was only 20% lighter high-end manufacturing techniques like billet engine production. But this is only a minor issue. Over likely simplified and the costs would be reduced which is that the energy left in the exhaust gas, fluctuates with engine load and engine RPM. At high load and high RPM we have a lot of energy left in the exhaust gas because we have these operating conditions. But at low load and low RPM we have small weak combustions which means that there's pretty much no energy left there which means that the middle piston which It can't harness anything because there's to move it up and down than there's left in the low load, low RPM the middle piston is actually pistons and reducing the efficiency of the engine. low load and low RPM operation can be high load operation. The final nail in the coffin of the from the exhaust gas means that there is less heat That's great for muffler design but it's very bad A five stroke can run only a very very get a catalytic converter up to temperature, likely fail modern emission standards. And so this a very long list of engines and designs ultimately failed to even make a tiny dent in years the conventional four stroke engine will be There is no other device of comparable mechanical planet Earth since the late 1800s. It has resisted and nothing ever managed to faze it. The it was gone before it could finish the sentence. evolving and evolving, getting better and better that the revolutionary engines claimed and can revive Nicolaus Otto for like a few hours just this thing and how omnipresent it still is. He rights or sue companies or something, but I would going to type in the comments how I.C.E. is over, over and how electric vehicles are the future, and moment here! Read the room. And let me know when to last 150 years, thank you very much. Yeah, okay, for watching and I'll be seeing you soon with