Introduce yourself My name is Lin Wanyu I guess you are the Mr. Ye whom I have never met. President of Lin International Group National Goddess Lin Wanyu What do you want from me? It's very simple. I want to talk to you about a romantic affair. But only tonight After tonight Our engagement is now void. Why did Miss Lin do this? I already have a family If it's just to break up the marriage Don't bother I agree Family? I see Mr. Ye, please don't misunderstand I, Lin Wanyi, am definitely not a person who goes back on his word. I have no choice but to break off the engagement with you this time. There is a reason for everything Mr. Ye, have you heard of Yunta Group? One month ago Charles, Chairman of Lighthouse Group United Ten Overseas Governors A number of cultural relics from overseas buildings were sealed up together Those brilliant cultures in the history of Daxia They destroyed it alive. After the incident Charles even said We want to fight to the death with our Lin Group My Lin family has managed to survive till today Now it is in danger Too busy to take care of oneself so I'd rather be the one who breaks the contract I don't want to implicate Mr. Ye. This is half of my personal dividend from the Lin Group. besides I can still give you my innocent first time If Mr. Xie wants to pick You can take it anytime And she will never marry another man. This is the compensation for Mr. Ye. These license plates? What are they? Mr. Ye Do you know them? Oh, I know Well But not familiar We just go fishing together occasionally. It turned out that I was fishing by chance. You are an ordinary person The luck is pretty good do you know Those people are the Three Kings of the Clouds I can meet them in the same waters. Why don't you seize the opportunity to cling on No Disrespect If Mr. Ye is free in the future Get in touch with these people more. This will benefit you a lot My company has something else I won't accompany you for now. Charles Lighthouse Group Hello Who are you Why is there my phone number? Monkeys in Daxia You are a talented person sent by Bingma Yi Is it right I didn't expect to become rich in the end. Your Chinese is getting better and better. Looks like The cold winter ten years ago taught you a lot Who are you? You are not qualified to know my identity Say hello to your great grandfather for me Besides, I tell you I took the photo of receiving the award President Lin, you must give us an explanation today That's right, he gave half of Lin's shares to A stranger who has never heard of it Have you considered the consequences of doing this? This matter was indeed in my hands. But don't forget Today, the Lin Group is in a precarious situation. The life and death of Jiang Qing in the Great Xia Dynasty The company is bankrupt Don't say half Even if there are more powder left It's just a pile of waste paper. An ordinary person Suddenly he became one of Lin's major shareholders. How can you guarantee that there will be no hidden dangers? I don't think that's your gigolo. Transfer assets in advance Everyone here is an expert in the company. Without our consent You just do it Treat me like death Why? Why why? How much was lost? What if I lose half of it? Have you considered it? Charles My Lin Group is now closed. By now What else do you want? Are you really going to push my Lin family into a dead end? The car I often come to The misunderstandings that I apologized to Ms. Lin are all misunderstandings. If I were late earlier who are you That does not Don't worry, Miss Yin. All the staff of Coriander have been withdrawn The Silver Family is not finished yet All business has resumed Everything, big or small, is unfinished I also prepared a gift Lin Group A business place in a foreign country Meaning Someone must be helping secretly Only then did my Lin family return to its peak Who are you? Nothing else I'm leaving first. You're busy. Miss Charles travelled all the way on a private jet Coming from overseas Just to apologize to you. The one who just let it slip What kind of existence is it? To blow him up like that Everyone Now, is it still useful for everyone to have knowledge of stocks? If you have no opinion Then we'll adjourn today. Okay Miss The group's crisis was finally resolved Shangjin Neighbors is finally saved But if so Me and Ye Jun Isn't Mr. Ye's marriage 318th Night Blade Leader Ryujaku Meet the Dragon Zun replica 18 What a poor child. What's your name In that case Then you are called the first generation of Peacock 317 Sister I know I'm wrong We were all abandoned in an orphanage Abandoned by the world Therefore, one's mind must be more resolute and courageous than that of ordinary people. remember Each generation of our dragon bird has only one mission. That is to obey the orders of Lord Longzun unconditionally Become the sharpest wild knife in the hands of adults Here Hold it steady and practice well No laziness allowed yes The last time I saw you She's still a little girl who can only cry. Being punished by 317 with a ruler all day long In the blink of an eye, she has grown into a graceful lady. Ah, very good Rural areas remain the same Still as young as Longque's childhood memories people Become so young Isn't immortality a kind of loneliness? Get better now yes The general of Huilong Village fought for three years Under your secret guidance I will pacify the war Repel 80,000 enemies The territory is even more absorbed by thousands of miles This time back I heard you are married It is true Over the years I have experienced too many old friends one after another I'm by my side Amazing people like me Perhaps it is the best choice to stay single for life But this time is different The Han family ancestors have a connection with me. Before Mr. Han died The only wish is for me to protect Han Jiangbai I see Long Zun respects loyalty and righteousness The Han family can get your blessing It is the greatest honor for the Han family. How about getting you ready? Huilong Zunyuan weekly results have been prepared In the name of Guangxia International You can give it to Miss Han at any time Good, now the border dispute has been resolved. I can also give up my faith Match new actors well Tomorrow is his birthday. I should also He revealed his identity I'll leave this to you. It is the subordinates who understand But I am curious about Why did you only give them a city? You own The Han family's foundation is unstable If the rain and fog are too heavy I'm afraid Xinyan's heart can't bear it Give him a city first Just treat it as an appetizer You all go down I should go back to be with my wife. yes Aiya, the news that the monk brought us today This is a huge surprise for our Han family. Hahaha, don't worry. Our Han family will never forget this favor of promotion. Ha ha You're welcome I don't have control over the top-level decisions of Guangsha International. This time it's just for private lessons Inform your experts in advance Not much help Just a newcomer The Day After Tomorrow Our two families need to interact more often. Wife, I'm back. Look what I brought you. Why didn't you inform me in advance when you had guests at home? This is Ye Jin You're back just in time Sign the word We divorce Divorce, are you kidding me? Tomorrow is your birthday. Look what I brought you. I prepared a fish The meat is definitely good I'll make it for you later. This is the birthday gift you prepared for me. Tomorrow will be an important day for my transformation before this Let's make a break. casual sit You, the newbie, don't know yet. The famous Guangxia International I was impressed by our new look's abilities. At tomorrow's birthday party Give the entire Yunzhou City to our Han family You and Xinyan will be worlds apart What qualifications do you have to continue waiting for your husband? Looking into the clouds Even the great hero Han family As small as dust Why do you think Guangsha International looks at the ability of Xinyan Why do you think the Han family has a smooth journey? It's the Han family's business. Without our Han family, Rely on new look Do you rely on your parents? That's right. How the Han family came to be today I'm the one who supported it all. This Yunzhou City I also benefited Ha ha ha ha No wonder people say that idlers Dare to brag about your illness Introduce yourself My humble self is He Hui Served as deputy manager at Guangsha International Yunzhou Branch I saw the whole process of this grand event with my own eyes. I do not know how On the top floor of Guangsha International There is a person named Lie Also for you This kind of top-tier circle thing It's normal that you don't understand I heard that they have been married for 3 years. You haven't touched Xi Yan. ah Stop it, let go of the monk. ah Enough of sunset I did not expect I take good care of you This is the treatment I got in return Han Xinyan, remember this I took the slap today. starting today I no longer owe you the Han family any money I'll ask you one last time Are you sure you do this? Ye Jun You listen carefully I'm definitely going to divorce you. good In this case But please don't regret it Don't you understand yet? I'm going to take the Youquanyun Boat soon Defend a city Sister, do you know what a city is? The value of economic operations here is as high as hundreds of billions This is the future I envision It is also a great stage to prove my ability as Han Xinyan If you really love me Just let go. The class gap between you and me will only get bigger You don't want to be a burden to me. Is it right burden do you know How many crises has the company encountered in the past three years? Who is behind the scenes helping to turn the situation around? I thought that couples should support each other. They all laughed at me for being a burden But I don't care but I never expected This time these words came from my wife Don't forget the good land. If the old man hadn't forced his mother to Marry you, a loser Do you think you can marry such an outstanding woman? Ye Jue You're idle Not striving for progress Can occupy my reputation for three years I don't owe you anything not to mention I am about to become the most dazzling The brightest pearl Ask yourself What abilities do you have? What qualifications do you have to burn fat again? I'm chilled I knew you wouldn't sign. check it out What is Divorce letter hahahaha You're a grown man I was divorced by a woman. Ye Jun is so cowardly Looking at the whole Yunzhou I'm afraid you're the first one. Three years of relationship Why is it so? Han Xinye Don't you want a divorce? I am as you wish From now on, you and I have no relationship anymore. middle Han Jiaqiang 6 Come and see him in the New Year What does this mean? Isn't his name Ye Jun? Ye Hongzhuang Men want to maintain their last bit of self-esteem. Understand You will know tomorrow. How right your desperate situation is Ah, Mr. He You make an appointment Sorry for being abrupt. Since there's nothing wrong, Then I'll go first. I won't disturb your rest. See you at the party tomorrow oh Monk walk slowly Prepare the car for tomorrow's banquet I'll be on stage myself Miss found it It is said that Ye Jun landed in Yunzhong three years ago unknown origins Unknown Unknown later All we know is that he and Han Xinyan from the Han family are husband and wife. Usually lives in Han's house But what? According to news They had separated last night The specific reason has not been found yet Preparation I want to kneel down and meet Mr. Ye in person. It's time to practice silence Miss, what do you mean? This marriage book It's time to cash in Come come come Take care Dear family members, He Shao, please take good care of the guests in the future. Ms. Han Young The future is really limitless. The highlight of Miss Han's banquet today I've heard it. In advance Congratulations! Congratulations! This throne It was prepared for the person behind Guangsha International Now the adults have not yet arrived to sign Before the results come out The final candidate has not yet been determined. Please don't speak too early. Take a look What is a talented woman style? Miss Han is very careful in her conduct This is the future pearl of Yuncheng! That's right. Slow down Ye Jun, you are really a disgrace to your ex-husband. Is this birthday party an occasion you can come to? ah It's really unlucky There's no relationship between us anymore. What else are you doing here? If you regret divorcing me That's not necessary. I think you misunderstood. Han Xiaoqin This birthday party couldn't go on. I can't go on without you. Hey, fellow homeowners Do you know who this guy is? Ha ha It's really a grand plan for the world. Let me introduce you to this Lord Ye, Brother Ye. It was Han Jiang's useless son-in-law. That is Xin Yan's ex-husband He is Sorry, I forgot about him. No job yet Ha ha I don't have a job. Ha ha ha ha Why did Ye Jun leave the Han family? Even eating has become a problem Come here to eat and drink Say this to you It's really scary you The flavor is OK Okay, since Brother Ye likes it Then I'll let you eat and drink as much as you want. But you are not qualified to attend this important banquet. Want to eat and drink Okay, then get out and be a watchdog. The monk is right, let him go out Go out go out go out go out Out to What on earth are you doing here? Aren't you ashamed? I'm sorry After all, he and I have a close relationship Please give me some time online for my sake. Ye Jun You hide behind me Three provinces to choose from otherwise Speak How much do you want? Isn't it just money? I give it to you as my last loyalty to you From now on Please stop making trouble. money I don't want a cent But Han Xinyan You got it wrong. I protected you for three years. Because of me You, Han Xinyan, can be today Only in this way can I have this prosperous half life The King of Nanxiang of Yunzhou presented a peacock brooch to the Nine Emperors of Heaven The King of Nanyue in Yunzhou gave the Pearl of Time and ten thousand ounces of gold The King of the Southern Formation of Yunzhou gave the Heavenly Mysterious Dragon Realm the power to lead three thousand disciples Can fight against thousands of troops Can fight against thousands of troops My prince and the other two are busy right now. I'll be there soon. People have yet to be honored first They are indeed the Three Kings of Yunzhou. Someone arranged for the Lanzhou King's butler to take his seat. I must obey orders. Now that the gift has arrived I won't bother you any more. Ms. Han congratulations These kids in their 50s and 60s are really thoughtful. But they didn't know that it had anything to do with the Han family. The three most popular kings in Yinzhou Congratulations Since you are in Mingzhou, Mingdu I'm afraid I'll have to sit firmly on the throne. Ye Jun realized the gap between us King Xiao abuses his power Extensive network of contacts Even Shangjing has connections. The King of Yue is rich Business giants Wealth can be accessed through Yunding Tianfeng And I He is also the leader of the dark night in the deep cloud city. These people should lower their heads For my Korean star, today's words are early death Ye Jin, you understand. I understand But have you ever thought about The three dignitaries you mentioned The Three Princes It's only for my sake that this is true. How can you save face by laughing? The three kings will arrive in person. How dare you speak so arrogantly in front of the king? You don't even know how you died. The princes are just meeting my threshold Who do you think you are You are not worthy of the three kings To show off for the man's ridiculous face It seems that this is all you have left. To be honest, I'm disappointed By now Do you really have to force me to say something? good Then I'll tell you You listen carefully I, Han Xinyan, this dazzling pearl You can't reach it You are wrong The so-called pearl It's my Ye Ju Just dazzling Just now brilliant I have a pearl Locked up forever Today I've spent half my life Shining through the mountains and rivers He can be anything wonderful. But it's not you Han Xinyan hahaha Kid Your words are a bit too loud. Looking at the whole Yunzhou Only Miss Han is the top If he wasn't Mingzhu Then in this world I'm afraid no one dares to call it a pearl. Ye Jian, you can make me touch the source It's a great honor As for the pearl you mentioned Wouldn't it be something I don't know any knowledge or culture. A yellow-faced woman who only knows about the daily necessities of life Ha ha ha ha The Cloud Nobles The lower nine classes Chivalry and justice Miss Han, you can't take pictures of the mountains and rivers I, Lin Wanyi, will take the photo I, Lin Wanyi, am here to call you This is what I told you last time The matter has been resolved Now I come to fulfill my promise Mr. Ye, please marry me What a pair of dogs and men in cahoots I was wondering why Xinye came to the scene today. It turns out that he hooked up with a mistress Is this what you call confidence? Ye Zhen Do you want to make me regret this way? That's hilarious. snort To be honest The reason why I The night before such an important day Choose to divorce Ye Jun That's because I found out that Ye Jun was having an affair So that's how it is. Dare to let Miss Han suffer such a great injustice I see you, what kind of Ye Jun It's not a good thing either. Hahahaha reverse black and white You have really made me famous. I have been married to you for 3 years How do I treat you? You know it in your heart I first met this lady. How can I cheat? You insult me and scold me. I do not mind But this is my friend In front of so many people Insulting a woman's reputation This is too much. We just got divorced. You are so anxious to feel sorry for other women I admit that your new love is indeed a bit fresh Even without caring But this world Relying on power Is wealth or back I am Han Xingyan The Han family is my will. There is Guangsha International's A city in Yunzhou will be acquired There are thousands of women in this world There are only a few who can suppress my cold heart and passion I'm afraid only the top ingredients from Shangzun For example, the legendary CEO's second daughter in the business world Or maybe the Ice-born Valkyrie Dragon Bird I don't know who this lady is. Who am I? I'm someone you can't afford to offend I'm someone you can't afford to offend Hum, can't afford to offend joke Xinyan is about to become the hottest pearl in Yinzhou The only thing missing is the mysterious founder of Guangsha International The last one is here Sign your name in person and you can get promoted in one step Enter the three networks Treat new people with courtesy Is it possible that your status is higher than Qiang Yi? Is it higher than the family members of Yun Zhao's three families? Who are you? I am the deputy manager of Guangxia International Yunzhou Branch I am not talented Working for that mysterious man I haven't learned to be a human being yet The official account is not vivid at all A branch manager Still a deputy Who gave you such confidence? What do you know Even if it is a branch Even if it's just the deputy manager I'm leaning on Guangsha Huji is the world's first commercial club How can it be compared with ordinary enterprises? Besides, I'm scared to death. Know who my father is Listen carefully My father is the personal driver of the Shangjing Lin family I have been driving for Mr. Lin for decades. Who in the upper class circles Dare to my dad He didn't give me any face. It turned out to be the Shangjing Lin family I've heard that the He family has an extraordinary origin. powerful I didn't expect the backer behind this It's so big The Lin family in Shangjing is a super family. Is your father's name He Yongfeng? how do you know I know your identity. So being a driver for the Lin family is your reliance. certainly The Lin family is a top family Inherited for many years Amazing background My father is Lin's driver. How many people dream of it? Looking at the whole cloud And find the second person who dares to disrespect him. Really? Since you know the Lin family Then you should know Mr. Lin passed away five years ago. That's right This incident caused a sensation at the time Everyone knows After Mr. Lin passed away My father followed Miss Lin Driving for the Second Miss Yes, Jin Yan I'll recommend it to you then. The second daughter of this super family Getting acquainted Mr. Ye, how do you want to deal with this? Just come to your place Xiao He, your status is too low. Not qualified to talk to me. Ask your father to come and see me in person I'd like to see A little driver Who gave him the courage? Dare to act recklessly outside Pull the neighbor's tiger skin to raise the big flag who do you think You Are The second lady of the Lin family Ye Jun, if you still want to save your life Take your mistress and get out of here as soon as possible To avoid more jokes I'm in a good mood today Don't make me do it myself Otherwise, otherwise I think you really want to toast, not drink for punishment. Don't blame me for being rude to you. Visitors Throw Throw this pair of dogs out of here. The Master Lives in a Dog I see who dares Who dares to touch him? I want his hand I said, how dare you go to the party alone? A man who shakes a tree to his death So you still have a backup plan? This beauty Looks a bit unfamiliar He must not be from Yunzhou. You don't need to care where I am from. What you need to do now is kneel down and apologize Respected by the evaluation Even the Three Kings wouldn't dare to say this. Are you sure you want to be my enemy? Ye Jun I admit you're a little stupid. But that's it. normal person They might be frightened by the scene you carefully prepared. But here No one is just an ordinary person trying to scare me. Ah, I think you should be the one kneeling down to apologize. ah Speak without respect When you cut you dare Ye Xu Don't you dare touch me Oh why wouldn't I snort Stop pretending. You can't scare me The entire Yunzhou belongs to me I just lost a strand of hair today You won't walk out of this door alive. how Now You know it? Now All How can you make sure I can't walk out of this door? You are seeking death I come I want to spare your life for my beloved's sake. but now I want you to die I want you to die Ye Jun, I advise you to apologize to Mr. He as soon as possible. Kneeling down and admitting your mistakes is your only way out That's right, kneel down and apologize now. Kneel down and apologize Miss Han, you may be wrong. To apologize, to kneel down Is it like this ant who wants to arrest someone? It's the children. He is the one who is the most important person in the birthday party Hahaha Why Dare to make the whole Yunzhou your enemy I see you are really at a loss. Believe it or not, I'll give you a call It will make you regret coming into this world. I'm very curious Who gave you such confidence? snort My uncle is the mayor of the northern part of the city. The old nobles are all bastards If he asks you to kowtow and apologize higher Not enough, my second uncle Kui is under the command of Lord Qiang Able to serve as a departmental supervisor Is it enough to kill him? As small as a mouse Still not enough My dad is the second lady's driver Direct connection to the Lin family in Shangjing Is that enough for him? enough These people are stupid enough to shoot This kid is talking nonsense. I'm calling my mom now. Even if Star Lord pleads for you No one can save you, right? How did he get up there? Mangmang Building Dragon Veins Accompany me to the podium Shake the world Your He family still has all the powerful means This Heaven and This Place This gentleman Wait in silence This Heaven and This Place Died Wait in silence How's the progress, ma'am? Mr. He, everything goes well. The Master is already under examination According to this time calculation It's almost time for the main event Um Hey Mr. He I have something else to worry about. That Han Xinyan of the Han family will be awarded the position of Mingzhu in Yunzhou But that is only the interest of the Han family. The young master has a good personal relationship with Miss Han. Then the master wouldn't take this banquet so seriously. Making friends with the Han family is only one aspect. This is not the most important thing The most important thing is that adult So what do you mean? good Of course it was the all-powerful man who was bullied by Guangsha International Huier is a senior executive of Guangsha International In general, the background is not enough If there is no good opportunity It is difficult to reach the top in a lifetime This time The opportunity is just around the corner This time Which big shot will appear at the banquet? I want to give up my seat Well served The one who is near the water gets the moon first There is no need to worry about the future of my He family. Foresight It's really you, hahahaha Hello What Quick retreat good You are so brave. Whose doing it is it? Why don't you get off me right now? Ye Jun, are you crazy? That's the position of the Great Sage of Guangsha International. If that person arrives I'm afraid no one can withstand his anger. Know But you don't have to use this method Come and ruin my gift-giving ceremony Come down to me now Xinyan must be someone who knows that she is about to die. So it's fate Just break the jar Don't worry, I'll wait for my dad. I want him and his mistress to kneel before me. Crying for mercy Residence Sit down What is the summary? What is the summary? Hello Mr. He, Mr. He is a good father You finally came Mr. He This is the couple. I don't even care about you There will be a next time I don't mind sealing your mouth. Bitch, you dare to hit me Who are you? presumptuous Participate in the second lady What are you doing? He is the second lady Shangjing Lin is the second daughter of the business legendary Lin family Hum, this is impossible The second lady has been doing business overseas for many years. How could I suddenly return to life? Dad, did you admit your mistake? Checking things I have followed the master for many years In the hands of the second lady Can I admit my mistake in the second half? 2Miss Forgive me for my poor parenting skills Dog son do not be happy I have offended you Please forgive me Forgive me, I dare not He just kept saying To kick me and Mr. Ye out If I hadn't come to Yunzhou today I don't know who's under me yet. Your son, He Yongfeng, has such great ability Your He family is in front of the Lin family on Shangjie Just a servant As a slave Offending the Master It's just asking for death Second Miss Don't worry, I will give you an explanation to the Lin family today. Kneel down Why don't you apologize to the second lady? No The person he wants to apologize to is Mr. Ye Don't you understand what people say? The second lady said Now kneel down in front of Mr. Ye Kneel down to apologize sit Mr. Ye Xuanzi offended you and the second lady today My He family is willing to bow down for you I just ask you to keep us alive. Mr. Ye Misunderstand It's all misunderstanding. How can you say that? If I knew that the second lady was your lover Even if you lend me a hundred guts I don't dare to speak out. Master Ye, I know I was wrong. Spare me, please. Walk Now I apologize and leave I came to this banquet you What kind of person wants me to get out of the door? I met Miss Lin You intervene Threatened to kick us out I said you are a bandit All rely on Even all the dignitaries in Yunzhou City All together are not enough You keep saying that my night army is exhausted Shaking a tree without knowing whether it will live or die So now I ask Who is kowtowed before whom to apologize? Ye Juan enough He's already home. What do you want? Do you really have to put the He family to death? He threatened to kill me Let me walk out this door that time Why didn't I hear you say no? ha It seems My value in your eyes He is not as good as a deputy manager. Han Xin You really disappoint me. Ms. Ning Excuse me I'm making fun of you. I neglected to discipline my servants. I have offended Mr. Ye. Since the Han family doesn't know the pearls Why not fulfill this engagement today? Mr. Ye, what do you think? The marriage certificate that was planted in my hands A total of 99, 98 of which are in my hidden identity The three years behind the scenes have been gradually repaid He is the only one who keeps the July date good I rejected you last time This time I think it could be Xiaodong In this case Why not get the certificate today? good According to your You go take care of Xiaorou's formalities. yes behave in a spoiled manner Miss, this certificate is a bit strange. Are you sure it works? Any questions No, this is not an ID card. Whose ID card doesn't have date of birth? This looks fake. Ye Jun, who do you think you are? When the number I've seen your real policy. Zhangtou rat It's so ugly that it's unbearable to look at I see The reason why you dare not put forward your real policy Are you afraid that Miss Ling'er will dislike you? It's just hypocritical How come I didn't find it before? You have the potential to be a gigolo. Xie Jun, you really make me feel sick How can you be sure that the one you saw before It must be me And now this It's not my real ID. Miss According to Mr. Ye's suggestion, Put these books away and don't throw them away. yes Slow down Ye Zun have to say You are now worthy of my respect. Being a gigolo Although it doesn't sound good to say it out loud But it is still a means for ordinary people to get promoted. But you shouldn't You shouldn't be in such a high position. I offended that adult. Xinyan You are right. This concubine is left to that master. Don't say you are the second lady's lover The second young lady of the Lin family is here. Even the entire Shangjing Lin family Even in front of that adult, you have to give in. Out of reach Miss Mei Er If you want to punish me I recognize He's family But even the lieutenant dared to offend Ye Jun I don't recognize that one You're right. Even if the second lady of the Lin family was present Even if he is the second lady So what? Don't forget who is hosting this party. Ye Jun I hope you think it over. Now you have only one chance to survive. That is before that person arrives. I'm going to admit my mistake to everyone present. The one you mentioned In fact, it has already arrived What's the meaning Ji Yan Don't listen to his nonsense. He was just trying to muddy the waters. Then I can just take advantage of the chaos to get out of here. This intention couldn't be more obvious. Do you know who that adult is? That person is the supreme and unparalleled Dragon Lord who reigns supreme over the world. Not to mention that his identity is never qualified to contact Cao Cao Just talking about this banquet I am the King of Fu Jing of Guangxia If Long Zun is really high-class How could I not recognize it? I feel that's enough Things have come to this point Aren't you still giving up? You just need to apologize. Admit your mistake to Jia Jia Everything is still There is room for maneuver Wait till Dragon Lord comes I will remember the friendship between the three of us. Please help me in front of Long Zun. I can still save your life. Don't you understand yet? Don't understand why I just said this grandpa was made for me This high seat is only for me You want me to bow my head snort You're not worthy yet What if we add all of us? What kind of rural wedding are you sure about? Set off yes Received message from the front Dragon Lord finally appeared Now one minute ago Registered marriage with a daughter of a noble family Follow me to worship immediately yes What took so long? If I really make Long Zun unhappy I demolished the store on the spot The Three Kings This piece of jewelry is made of rare treasures from your three families. The materials used are very precious Once the build is complete The value is immeasurable Please wait a moment. It will be fine soon What's up Just say it directly. Don't you know I'm busy? Tell me now. Finally finished Ingenious It's a perfect work of art The Three Kings Do you still want this golden carp? Yes, of course. But this golden carp no longer belongs to him. Expert hahaha The Lin family of Shangjing is really blessed. The person who comes here immediately takes this golden carp Rush to the banquet site immediately What do you want to do? Mr. Ye is my man He is the future son-in-law of the Shangjing Lin family. If you move him, he will move. Are you going to go against the entire Lin family? Miss Lei I respect you But this matter concerns the dignity of Long Zun. Dragon is above Even if you Can't protect him It seems that the lesson I just gave you was not enough. Don't dare This rebel How do you talk to Aoxue? Bah, don't get me wrong. Miss Mei Er I don't dare to be nervous But Ye Jun was touching Dragon Lord The founder of Guangsha International It is the world's unparalleled top stream Miss Mei Er I would like to remind you Our He family really relies on Wu family, but don't forget I, He Hui, rely on Guangsha International He is also a subordinate of Long Zun. Strictly speaking I am from Long Zun Not the Lin family Are you saying that you are the son of Long Zun? I was wrong How come I don't remember When did I ever give orders to a servant like you? Residence You are getting bolder now. Even Dragon Lord dares to pretend Are you so eager to die? Thank you, Dragon King, the Supreme I can't even look directly at it Don't mess around Interesting. It's really interesting. Do you know how serious the crime of impersonating Long Zun is? At the very least, they will be sent to prison without a prison to detain sentient beings. In serious cases, they may be killed on the spot. Ye Jun, are you ready to bear your anger? Do I need to take responsibility? unnecessary So who should bear your anger? Of course it's him And him And all of you present here Except for Miss Lin You all heard what I just said. presumptuous Dragon is above How dare you speak nonsense? Ye Jun I know my divorce from you is a big blow to you. But you have to make it like this Long Zun can send my Han family away with just one sentence. The person who gave me Han Xinyan a city And you have been married to me for three years Even the most basic apartment was bought by me. you What's the point of you being stubborn now? Even if you can come up with something practical In addition to being strong What else can you do? You're right I do regret it. I regret not marrying you earlier. I regret that I was soft-hearted and agreed to be with you Xinyan, I see this person. I won't cry until I see the coffin. do you know Just based on the charge of insulting Dragon Lord According to building regulations Anyone present has the right to arrest you. I'm afraid I'm not qualified enough to arrest you. Kid What if my Guo family is included? That's right, my Yunzhou Rong family is willing to help the monk. I am from Yunzhou Fu family And my Wei family We all put him in jail together Cut off his hands and feet To show respect To show respect To show respect Ye Jun, now is your last chance Lower your head quickly Sorry for having a stiff neck last night This head drops Go down Miss Miss, I just followed your instructions. Take someone to handle relevant formalities The result was not only successful And there are many people After seeing Mr. Ye Ye's ID Like crazy Many people are those people The Three Kings of Yunzhou in Southern Province Guangsha International Board of Directors Chen Guobin, the governor of Southern Province, meets with Longque Meet the Dragon Lord Nanjiang King Nanzheng King The King of Southern Yan meets Long Zun All Directors of Guangsha International Meet the Dragon Lord Get up yes Dragon This is the combined strength of the three of us. The Golden Carp Dedicated to your new wife, Ms. Lin How could he be Nong Zun? The certificate just now clearly said that it was the Bureau of Industry In the past, the ID card was also on the industry bureau How could he be the supreme dragon? Long Zun is a title bestowed by the king himself He is also Ye Jun Ye Longzun Chairman Mr. Huang and Mr. Li And Mr. Kang This is actually true All the top floors of Guangsha International are here It's really Dragon Lord I do not believe Who is the scam you guys are working together on? I don't believe you My He family was destroyed in your hands. The He family is finished Release Visitors Someone come quickly Who just said that I should be put in jail? Cut off his hands and feet It's you Hey, it's not me Definitely not me Hey, it's still you Or maybe it's you Hey Pangzun You heard wrong We have severed our relationship with the He family a long time ago. This is really not me, right? not us Could it be you? NO, I have not I don't have I don't have I didn't say I didn't say Since no one recognizes it forget about it I can only count this matter as Wait, everyone. I mean everyone here Since no one recognizes it, Then we kissed each other Dragon Lord, spare my life. Dragon Lord, spare my life, spare my life Spare my life, spare my life Dragon Lord means there is no real dragon in our eyes Dragon Lord, spare my life. Spare my life this this this Ye Jun How can you be a spirit? If you had told me earlier There wouldn't be so many misunderstandings, right? Misunderstand Your Han family forced me to divorce Make me kneel When everyone united to reveal and oppress me I didn't hear it was a false alarm. After all, we know each other. To the point where Xinyan, do you think this makes sense? Speak, speak quickly. So Yunzhou City was given to me by you That's right This is indeed a benefit to me. But I want to correct That was before As for now This Yunzhou is a tool You, Han Xinyan, are not worthy Why then why didn't you say so earlier If you had made it clear earlier The two of us wouldn't end up like this. I've already said it But you didn't take my words seriously at all I went back last night just to confess everything to you. But You prepared the divorce agreement for me to sign long ago Yes, you will suffer. Yunzhou becomes the brightest pearl You will be on top Get rid of the past and be on top of the clouds And I, Ye Jun, am in your heart He is nothing but an idle and unlearned encumbrance. You've already determined I say more, you believe me Sister Ye, please stop talking. Let's make up Just like three years ago Now you are satisfied, right? Let's make up Just like 3 years ago I don't care who Ye Jun is. But now he is my husband Ms. Han also asks you to support Ms. Yin This is between me and him. You have no right I have something to remind you. He is the supreme ruler I am his favorite person So please be polite when you speak to me. You just said you wanted to get back together with me That's right Isn't your purpose today to come back to me to get back together? Ye Jun, I know you can't leave me That's why you do these things to show off in front of me. I see it now I agree to your request I already said that You, Han Xinyan, are not worthy In the past I can promise anything. But now it's different Han Xinyan You are for your inner desire for power and interests You are willing to give up your loved ones Excuse me You are not worthy of talking to me about reconciliation. If we want to talk, you have to kneel down and beg me, Ye Jun. Ye Jun I know you don't want to divorce me. That's why you say these words to irritate me No one can compare to me, Han Xinyan, in terms of beauty and talent And he is just a fake one you brought in to piss me off Let's send the money to Yunzhou City first. We'll talk about other things when we get back. Sign the book Leaf, are you mistaken? Shouldn't I be the recipient of this gift? How could it be him? You read that right This Yunzhou City has nothing to do with you, Han Xinyan And the fake one you mentioned My first wife Lin Wanyi He is the real new Mingzhou Pearl Ye Jun, are you kidding me? Why does he compare with me? I'm the woman you love most Because he is in a noble family Never looked down on anyone Well-educated and well-mannered respect others And you have always been unattainable Profits always come first Han Xinyu, you said something right. Now I return it to you intact. You make me feel sick. Yunzhou has nothing to do with you in the future Han Jiang self-respect Are you really so heartless? You are the heartless one When you turn to outsiders When the Han family forced me to sign the divorce From that moment on We're over. You are so unauthorized to approach the Dragon Lord. Kill without mercy Hahaha Why on earth do you treat me like this? Over the years, I have brought the Han family down to this point. Even if there is no merit, there is still suffering. You see all these hard work. So why on earth are you doing this to me? Have you forgotten the feelings of these three years? You are wrong. Han Jia can rise quickly in three years. It's all because of my silent support behind the scenes Han Xinyan tells you Without me, Ye Jun you are nothing Ye Ju, it turns out you did all this. The Han family is blind to pearls Today I offended my husband I, the minister, will go to the capital to represent Lin Severe punishment without mercy What a grand ceremony! The Ximan family got into trouble without permission Lin Wanye Do you know how big you have gotten? Lin Wanyi Do you know how big a mess you've made? How did you come If I don't come again The Lin family is about to lose face because of you. This is him He is Ye Jun Introduce yourself I am the daughter of the head of the Shangjing Lin family. Lin Yao It turns out that this is the eldest daughter of the Lin family in Shangjing How come he came to Yinzhou? I heard that Miss Lin is the eldest daughter of the family. He will definitely inherit the Lin family in the future. Her status in the family far exceeds that of the second lady. He's the man you picked. What do you want to do My good sister Why are you so nervous? I won't eat him. Or is there a man you are reluctant to share with your sister? Ye Jun, right? Come kneel down I command you Kneel down on the ground now lick my toes Yunyao, what's wrong with you? Why do you feel sad? But he's just a man. G No less meat The man my sister hand-picked But kneeling under my skirt as a slave It's fun to think about it From small to large I want to grab the toys you like. I can tear up the book you like to read if I want Even a piece of clothing A hairpin I always put pressure on you head Even in my eyes A man who is no different from a tool I, Lin Yao, don't want him to be like a dog Held in my hand Just wave your hand At your fingertips Everyone Today's wedding of Lin Wanyi and Ye Xin Lin Jia refused to admit It was entirely his own decision. Not counted The rival family that our Lin family wants to have a friendship with He is Liu Lingxiao, the eldest son of the Shangjing Liu family. Not this so-called Yejun Liu family Liu Lingxiao That's the top young man who was shocked. did not expect The second young lady's real engagement partner turned out to be her Li Yao, you are too much This is my own private matter Why do you point fingers? Don't rely on the fact that you are the president of the company. You can challenge me According to the rules You should call me sister. Your Lin family's affairs I can't control it. But now she is my legitimate woman Before you teach her a lesson Have you asked for my opinion? Asked you Of course, my dear brother Today is the first time I meet you I can't help but start liking you what to do I can't help thinking about it now What kind of romance should I choose tonight? Come on a date with you But what are you? A dirty, vile bug You are not qualified to talk back to me Don't you know that you are a wanton lady? He is the one You want to say he is Dragon Lord, right? Absurd I have seen the true face of Dragon Lord with my own eyes How could I not recognize it? He's totally fake. What What's fake? Fake So what's going on? I have no idea I don't know either How can it be Yunzhou Sanwang Guangsha International And the town guards All of them testified for him at the scene If it's fake How come everyone 20 years ago, I was in danger A man rescued me. Although I was still young at that time I can't remember his face anymore. But I can be sure That was a very young man. Later, after continuous investigation, I Searching for clues for many years Finally found out That man It was the Supreme Dragon Lord of Daxia 20 years ago So to say Your age doesn't match at all. Ye Juan You fooled everyone Only you can't fool me Can't fool the Lin family Lord Longzun must be over 40 now. But you don't fit me at all How can you be sure that the person who saved me 20 years ago wasn't me? If you don't tell me, I won't know. It turns out you are the little girl from 20 years ago You still dare to pretend to be ignorant even now That god-like man It's also something that a bug like you can pretend to be. Since that night 20 years ago I will always regard Lord Long as the great sun But Sooner or later, I will become the most pious and loyal dog under the adults. All the spirits and monsters are still at your disposal. You should never insult my beliefs. Defile my Lord Dragon If I'm not mistaken I can't see Ye Jun. It's just a way for Lord Longzun to politely reject the marriage proposal. Just a chess piece pulled out at random but It's not your fault. After all, you are just one of the pawns of Lord Longzun. It's normal not to know Is what Ye Jun said true? Oh, this is a long story. Actually, I was fine. You don't have to say Even if you are Quebec Even if you are the wife of Lord Longzun who has broken away from the engagement I am willing to work with you Actually, for me Lord Longzun is too far away If you are just an ordinary person On the contrary, I feel more at ease No matter what You are already my registered husband. Even if Lord Long Zun is here today I only recognize you Do you dare to say these words in front of grandma? This weekend is the annual family reunion. You better think about it carefully How to attend the annual meeting after returning? Then tell grandma and all the uncles. My dear sister You will see Oh, right And you, the stink bug You and him It won't be long Guess what? How will Liu Lingxiao deal with it then? snort Miss Miss Hey, wait for me Miss, I'll go get the car ready first. I said how did you go from being a lazy loser to Suddenly he transformed into the Dragon Lord admired by everyone. You're just a puppet. Pooh There is no moment of true ability A fox taking advantage of the tiger's might What is a set? Ye Jun I once had such a moment I really thought you were the Supreme Dragon Lord. But now it seems Snakes and rats are always snakes and rats No matter what, I can't become a real child Ye Jun said it clearly You are still relying on women for food To be honest, I look down on Lin Yao from the bottom of my heart. You just believe whatever I say, right? Lin Yao of all sizes in the clouds Your pattern is just like this Mr. Ye, you have been eating and drinking for free in my Han family for three years Bite us back Even such a big event as Yunzhou Town You messed me up. Okay, wait for me. Sooner or later I will tell you off in front of the rural elders. Forget it, mom. That Yunzhou City Deed must be from Lord Longzun. There must be something else missing I believe it won't take long This Yunzhou City will belong to me, Han Xinyan, sooner or later. Then you just wait slowly. I wish Miss Han to reach the top of Yunzhou soon Ye Jian You don't really think you can stay out of it. Be a gigolo for your whole life, live happily I'm not afraid to tell you The Liu family is the best family in the world Liu Family Patriarch Liu Is the only one who can be in front of Dragon Lord The top dignitaries who have a say Now you have offended Mr. Liu Call Hengzun son-in-law In a few days I will take Xinyan to Beijing Seeking to see the ancestor Seeking to see Dragon Lord By the time I ended this myself. No need to bother Mr. He My Han family has risen to this day It's no longer a low-end family. I believe that with the support of Guangsha International Even the top families in Beijing dare not neglect me. I believe that with my efforts, Han Xinyan Can rely on oneself at the higher level Meet in person in the top circles Mom, let's go. Ye Jie The way you hide behind a woman is really disgusting Don't worry I will find a way to solve the Liu family's problems. I can plead for you. Don't worry, I have my own arrangements for this matter. You really think of yourself as Lord Dragon. I told you to let me handle it. Oh, right you are leaving right The Lin family's annual meeting is the top priority every year. Everyone must be called back Can't be absent But don't worry No matter how difficult they are I won't waver. Out of town I have to go ah This was my 18th birthday. My grandpa gave it to me He said that if he met his ideal husband in the future Just give this to him. Actually, there is nothing wrong with being a gigolo. I will support you in the future Hayashi family banquet Liu Family Ancestor interesting Living in seclusion for many years It's also the time to go to Beijing It's time for me, Ye Longzun, to come out. tell me Old Ancestor is approaching the end of the year Family meeting Such an important day You're not going to show up. I do not understand You make offerings to this statue every year. What is it for? Our Liu family is now the number one family in heaven Relationships around the world In this world Who else can make you respect him so much? The First Poet in Shangjing Did you know What kind of person is this person whom I respect? His words Then our Liu family will no longer be a noble family. In the eyes of the world Shangjing Liujia The unfathomable master of the Liu family Haha, you ask me repeatedly What does the Liu family rely on? In the past few decades, it has developed to this point Today I will tell you the truth. The Liu family's entire old master In front of this person I'm just a deaf person It was because I chopped water and firewood for him. Clean the toilet Our Liu family has today's glory. How can this be Strong as the Ancestor But only qualified to clean the toilet for him Could he be the Dragon Lord admired by everyone? You remember in this world Even the most powerful We have a price and can look at it with equality But only in him Anywhere, anytime Respect him. Respect him like a god Do you understand it Ling Xiao understood Oh, that's right. There's one more thing, ancestor. I recently fell in love with a woman I plan to propose marriage tomorrow. Later Don't report such trivial matters to me. You watch it. yes Long Zun, this is what you asked me to prepare Please take a look Um Barely OK Trust this pancake The elders in the family are also quite satisfied. If Long Zun is willing to keep it Can be among the top of the world Every painting is worth a fortune A masterpiece If the Lin family can get their suspicion It is also his supreme glory. Another year Ancient Emperors Today's powerful Everyone yearns for longevity But who can endure the loneliness that lasts forever? Can you understand? But this year is different This year's meeting is about to begin What if something happened to this child? Where did you go? Aren't you coming back yet? Let's go in first. Take a seat Happy New Year, Third Uncle, Fourth Uncle, and Sixth Uncle Happy New Year hahaha I've prepared some gifts for you. So thoughtful. Grandma, this tea Um Then we'll talk later Now that we are here Let's get started Why are you in such a hurry? Someone else hasn't arrived yet. Miss Xiaorou Are you ready for the gifts I asked you to prepare? It's all ready here. good Miss, why do you prepare two servings? My share? Needless to say, of course The other one is for Ye Qing. Although others won't come But as his wife, The proper etiquette still needs to be prepared Let's go in. The second lady arrives Grandma, I'm back. Grandma, this is a gift I prepared especially for you. Hope you like it Kneel down for me Why If grandma lives in a Do I need to repeat it a second time? Take the initiative Escape from marriage privately If it weren't for Yaoyao I do not know yet You are in Yunzhou To be able to do something so earth-shattering Lin Wanyi You really impressed me, an old woman. Wanyi dare not You hid it from the Lin family When she was looking for a strange man outside without telling the eldest son of the Li family But I don't mean to be afraid Grandma Ye Jun He was the one who arranged the marriage with his grandfather. He is my husband Not a wild man How dare you mention this? Do you know this Ye Jun? That's just a rural guy. A puppet used to push our Lin family Do the supreme legends in your village look down on you? The rural area's intentions couldn't be more obvious If you really understand You shouldn't mention this engagement again. Grandma, calm down. Yaoyao is still the most worry-free Listen to me No matter what method Break up the relationship between you and that wild man as soon as possible Then marry into the Liu family. Serving the leader Infertility is good Now the wings are hard How dare you not listen to me? I'll punish you. Give me a good lesson This unfilial granddaughter who eats her own food You guys bully a weak woman. This is the style of your Yun family. Ye Jun, why did you come to Beijing? Don't tell me a word I don't worry about you being alone presumptuous Who made you move? Hurry up and kneel down for me I am Ye Jun's woman Why live under someone else's roof? Rest assured, Xiao Lu I am here Anyone can force you to do something. What a deep affection unknown I thought you really became the son-in-law of our Lin family. You are not at ease The annual meeting is such an important day You brought a wild man back secretly What is the intention? I'm not afraid of being laughed at if it gets out. Nonsense You are really becoming more and more unruly. Wanyi, you You are Ye Jun That's right I am Wanyi's husband Ye Jun What is your family background? No father or mother But he has never been to the court. He is doing business. No trade Neither ascend to the clouds No sea So which path did you take? Drunken Beauty Find Dogs Arrogance Even my father doesn't dare to speak like this Where do you get the courage? Lin Wanye Is this the man you like? a shame Our neighbor's annual party is not open to everyone. As an outsider, he has no right to stay here Who said he was an outsider? I'm married to Ye Jun According to the rules He can definitely enter this annual meeting good Since you mentioned the rules Then let the Lin family's rules come. Ye Jun I'll ask you You visit your neighbor's house and there is baptism You didn't even prepare a decent gift? I am Lin Yaozhi Grandma Dao likes to taste tea I specially asked someone to airlift 8 liang of Supreme Longjing from West Lake. This is not ordinary tea Instead, it is picked from 18 green tea trees. Green tea trees have been cultivated for many years It is then made through processes such as steaming, rolling, and drying. Just these eight taels It's already a sky-high price that you can hardly look up to grandmother Please record Good good good Elegant aroma Flawless quality Yaoyao is really thoughtful My tea leaves look like yellow wine Arrived at Lin's house It's just a small item for leisure and elegance. If you prepare a door-to-door gift If you can't even beat me in tea art I don't think anyone would recognize this so-called son-in-law of the Lin family. That's the rule You like this Why not take out your door-to-door gift and let everyone see it? Can you also let everyone open their eyes? Still no action Could it be that I'm not prepared at all? Hahaha Who said the military parade was not prepared? Grandma This is the jewelry I customized for you from abroad A little thought Dad, this is what Ye Jing prepared for you. Good good good Slow down I saw this Lin Shidanton at an auction. It is a handicraft with a global limited edition of tens of millions. This level of craftsmanship It shouldn't be this ordinary person with no money or power. Can you afford it? What do you mean Means nothing I just doubt This door-to-door gift was not sold by him at all. Lin Wanye, don't rush to defend me, okay? He just needs to answer a few questions. This watch has multiple complex functions I asked you what it includes. The giant crocodile picture above Which famous general created this? And how many pieces of this watch are limited to the world? How can I not answer? I told this Lin Shidanton Three questions at the same time Time equation 15 coaching functions including tourbillon, perpetual calendar, etc. From the hands of the famous Bergina Limited to global quantities Only this one This is not at all You prepared it. This watch is definitely not what I was prepared for. You admitted If I'm not mistaken You paid for it. Right or Wrong Lin Wanyi You are so outrageous. You are in trouble from outsiders Cheating everyone You have a point Mom, actually It doesn't matter who bought it. What matters is that the intention is there. Yes, intention Even visiting the house costs my Lin family's money. This kind of thing can be discussed That's not the intention. Xie Jun came in a hurry It is understandable that there is no time to prepare the door-to-door gift Besides, he is my husband. My money is his money It's the same crap no matter who buys it You dare to speak for him? There's never anyone here I only recognize him as my Lin family's son-in-law. There is no etiquette for visiting a guest. Being ignorant of the rules The country folk who don't know how to fight spread the news It will bring shame to the Lin family. Who said I didn't blow salute This is a painting It seems to be a Chinese painting. I heard that my father-in-law doesn't like it much. Only good landscape Xi Guohua specially prepared this sword Thank you. Your name is Ye Jun, right? The boy has a heart Ha ha ha ha What's wrong oh it's okay no problem Uncle, why are you doing this? Since he was full of confidence just now Why not let him take it out for everyone to appreciate? Let's see what kind of work it is. This one No need for that, hahahaha What happened to you today? Isn't it just a painting? Why are you always hiding it? And this was specially sent by a young man. Give it to me quickly I want to see Don't give me I want to see Give it to me quickly This is Tang Yin Tang Bohu's Western Picture That's right. Hahahahahaha Hey, what are you doing? I know you mean well. But you have no money You can tell me Why do you have to lie to others? Speech Ye Jun, you are If you take other words I'll just fool around. But you chose this uncommon picture. Did you know This is the only authentic painting in the world. Yaoyao also came to tell him Authentic Busito It is stored in the treasure house of our Lin family. Ye Jun came to give gifts with false words What crime should you be guilty of? It seems that you don't take my wife seriously. Didn't take the Lin family seriously Although I don't know what your Lin family's magic cube is. But the gift must be added How can you be so sure? Because this is a huge industry Personally gifted Hahaha What I didn't hear clearly Tang Yin personally told you Is this person suffering from a heart attack? Or the cultural education level is too low This Tangye was 500 years ago Speak with grace Why would he give it to you to play with? Hmm ridiculous It seems that he will not cry until he sees the coffin. Xiaorong went to the treasury and brought back the painting of the eternal Let him take a good look at what the treasure looks like yes Ye Jun, you should admit it. Lest it be too strange to describe Yes, Ye Jun Just admit it honestly Then just tell everyone the truth. Chinese paintings of this level like Buxitu Priceless It's normal that you can't afford the real thing No one will make things difficult for you. Aunt and father-in-law can rest assured I have my own destiny Oh, you are really I really hope you can still laugh later Ye Jun has a chance Observe the traditional Chinese paintings at such a close distance I guess this is your only chance. Cherish it well Xiaorong opened the conversation Ye Jun, open your eyes Press carefully No need to look at it This picture of your Lin family is really sincere. Why admit it now? Steps to the West Tuqi Peak Misty Clouds Banqiao Stream The mountain peaks rustle Empty and desolate mood The shape of this picture It's not something you, an ordinary countryman, can see. The meaning of this picture Your fake painting is better than Xiaorou. Ye Junyi lies to visit It seems that you don't take my wife seriously. Don't worry about my Lin family The painting in your Lin family is indeed an authentic one. But when did I say that this picture of mine is fake? What do you mean by this? What's the meaning This painting of mine is also authentic. absurd The only one in the world It was collected by my Lin family many years ago. Hundreds of national sword masters are no exception All identified as authentic without photoshop Now you say that your un-Photoshopped picture is real Yes, the one I have is also an authentic one. And I would like to add My painting is 7 points better than the famous one This is a masterpiece from Tang Yin's peak period. Toy unknown Words are not enough Since you keep claiming that your painting is not a fake Then why don't you show us the evidence? Ye Jun Of course there is evidence How about Ye Xiu's picture? really The epidemic is getting worse after all The end of the flame in this way Finally perfect Landscapes match gentlemen Brother Ye, this Busi picture is for you. The answer lies in this picture Everyone knows the picture Han Yan has a little-known habit I just like hiding in the paintings. If i remember correctly It is this slate that absorbs The evidence you want is here. Ouch this There is indeed In this inconspicuous place There really are words. What words are actually written? You better tell me quickly. What words are hidden in this? It seems to be written Zheng Zhengyejun What Tang Yibin could be a person from more than 500 years ago Now Ye Jun's name appears in his paintings How is this possible? Yeah, something must have gone wrong. When Bo Hu created this rare history Not out all day After the first drawing, I was dissatisfied with myself So I created another one This is the picture you see now. And your Lin family has collected the painting for many years It's just that Tang Yi abandoned the initial herbal The gift I gave to Yuefu is the real Chinese painting. Not thin coating Hi, speechless. These are all lies from your father. Your picture is obviously fake. How dare you pretend here? The ultimate is in front of me but I can't recognize it You Lin family are really blind and cowardly. This picture has been authenticated by numerous experts. Don't we understand? That's because they didn't see my picture. good Since you are so sure Why not ask an expert in treasure appraisal to make a bet? True or False One look and you'll know Maybe you dare Enough for a countryman Not worthy of my great master's root Grandma said This fake is always fake No matter how much you write it, it will never come true. Give it to some people Really good at putting gold on your face Even if it's fake And created such an outrageous and ridiculous thing you say Even if you spend tens of thousands of dollars to buy a fake on the street You have to eat bricks A fake product won't cost tens of thousands of dollars. A few dozen dollars is the limit The Sixth Master reminded me that I don't understand these. Other people hate Ha ha A fake is a fake. This is also my intention. Hahaha The second one You are too inconsiderate. What is the status of our Lin family? I received a fake painting. This will make people laugh if it gets out. This is unknown I thought our Lin family Even a few tens of millions of Chinese paintings can't afford it Tens of millions of people are in our Beijing The Lin family is indeed a drop in the bucket But for those country folks from other places I'm afraid he ran away from home. It is far less than a collar Ye Jun This is called class disparity Your marriage with Wanyi is not a good match You should be outside the manor. Sitting with the migrant workers on the roadside Instead of appearing at this door At the annual meeting of the valve dignitaries What a powerful person What a wealthy family Do you know If it weren't for me Secretly resolved the crisis of your Lin Group Your Lin family has gone bankrupt a long time ago How could this day come to pass? What You did this. months ago Lighthouse Group joins hands with top ten overseas governors Retaliatory suppression of our temporary group But suddenly this was solved I've always felt that this was odd. Is it really him? This is impossible He is just an ordinary person It doesn't matter, no background At most, he is a puppet of Dragon Lord. Being pushed out to take the blame How could he have that ability? That's what I said. Ye Jun, what's going on? At first I thought of the old times I saw your little forest. For the sake of your old man Lin Only then did I solve the crisis of your Yun Group you mean Charles came back from overseas in person Sorry The mysterious big man behind the scenes is you good I can resolve the turmoil in your Lin family with just one sentence One sentence can bring the Lin family back to heaven from hell How can your Lin family have what we have today? All depends on my iron blood and support, and you Aristocratic Wei clan One poor person at a time Is this your way of repaying kindness? You said you did it, didn't you? I don't think it's that shallow. Dear uncles Don't be fooled by him. Charles of the guitar He is a person who changes color when talking about tigers Our Lin family will use all our power Still hard to resist He is a puppet A chess piece that can be discarded at will after use How can one participate in such a game of rich and powerful people? Liejun, you are taking credit for the merits The person who helps behind the scenes It can't be you What's making such a loud noise? Hey guys, listen to this sound. It seems like the master Mr. Qi, the butler of his son Yo Qi Lao is here Hahahaha I'll pick you up Qi Lao hahaha Qi Lao is here Hahaha good good Hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry This is Mr. Qi. He was my grandfather's right-hand man. Also your chief steward Now, even though I have abdicated But the authority is still there We all respect him very much. Today is the annual meeting, right? Ah, old man I have nothing to do. Come out and walk around when you have free time. You are all busy with your own Don't mind me. Why Do you have guests here? ah Could it be Our Neighbors There is no way there could be such a shameless guest. He just said Xianxian Our Lin Family Group is in crisis It was he who resolved the crisis. Lao Qi said it was funny yes It must be him. I didn't expect that after so many years He is still so young Dragon Spirit My Lin family is saved! Why What did you say I said he was making money from food Know what is good and what is bad Although I don't know Who is the big man behind Jiuer Lin's family? He is a powerless common man. Absolutely impossible You are from the Lin family. Everyone here today knows Your eldest son is here. Mr. Liu, what did you mean by what you just said? Of course it's what you think in your heart. I know who saved you Ning family members Is it true that Mr. Liu asked for leave? The crisis facing your Lin Group is not someone else's. It was I who solved it. I didn't want to reveal this. But I heard someone seemed to be stealing the sky's work. In this case I have to stand up Clarify the truth of this matter turn out to be The mysterious person behind our Lin family It's Mr. Liu In this way This matter is all clear. In this world There are only a handful of people who can make Charles afraid. And my Liu family is one of them The old lady is not only I wonder who else can do this? I'm really grateful. Mr. Liu has done us a great favor. Unlike some people How could a Taoist pretend to be a relative? Now I bring the son here I am now Do you have anything else to say? So bold Standing in front of you He is the eldest son of the Liu family, the first family in Shangjing. Liu Lingxiao, Young Master Liu After all, country people don't know the rules. It turned out to be Master Li No wonder he is so talented What a pity This face is better than the sole of the shoe presumptuous Mr. Liu has given our Lin family a new life. I can't let you be so presumptuous Now the truth is revealed You are still here talking nonsense. He is the one who speaks nonsense If I hadn't saved you The temporary distinction has already collapsed You are grateful to an unrelated outsider. this It's so sad and ridiculous Ye Jun, you keep saying that you did this. Then I would like to ask But who knows who is the witness? Yes, I have testify No Xiaoye has some past Wang Yi, this is your vision Take a good look at his ugly appearance. A person full of liars Is it worth it for you to do this? Thank you, Liu Lingxiao Help my Lin Group survive this crisis I will never forget your kindness Hey, just a little busy It's not worth mentioning. If you have anything to say I'll talk about it after the annual meeting. Now stop messing around. You don't believe me. Because I believe in you That's why I don't want to see you continue to act recklessly Doing things without any bottom line at this point Yanjun, are you going to continue to be difficult? This is not your help. It's not you who helped. Why did you lie to me? The most important thing between husband and wife is to be honest with each other This favor was done by the Liu family Not you, Ye Jun Wake up, please. No, I'm sober. I don't care what they say. But only you Because you are I am Ye Jun's man No matter how much you blame me it's me Humiliate me I don't care But today this matter I have to make it clear in person This is not my fault. It's your entire Lin family. Shut up. What are you doing? Failed to rebel Very simple Let the tea base be judged Shameless You don't have a say here. You know Charles is overseas. It is impossible to appear on the elephant at this time. So you already knew you were ready. I guess this statement is correct, right? Sit in the well and see the world What about overseas? It's hard to tell the truth from a phone call Love Charles Cautious and suspicious Except for his own top-secret private phone I almost never carry any electronic devices with me. Even our Lin family doesn't have his contact information. Good regardless of status Charles's overseas declaration Even if I, Liu Yunxiao, am not as good as him In order to solve the crisis of Lin Group This young master has put a lot of effort into it. I completed it after finding connections I laugh at you for not knowing He actually tried to get Charles himself to testify It's ridiculous Just because your Lin and Liu families don't have it doesn't mean they don't have it. Hey Sir He really has Charles's personal phone number. sorry the scriberudele is power off Hello, the number you dialed is powered off. If you want to leave a message, please press If you want to live till what year Come over here and see me Hahahaha ok After a long time This is your confidence it's good now Everyone sees Okay, Ye Jun. Don't go on any further. I almost thought there was a chance. I misunderstood you. But now it seems Forget it, even if it is like this I didn't blame you. You listen to me Stop it, okay? I can But have you ever thought about What if I check it once? You mean Charles came to Daxia? by that time Would you like to believe me again? Full of lies This annual meeting Our Lin family has lost all face. all because of you But you wild man It doesn't matter if he offended our Lin family. I happened to offend Mr. Liu It just so happens that Master Liu is also here today. Lin Wanyi, you should think about it carefully. Tell the Liu family. Liu Lingxiao, I apologize to you on behalf of Ye Jun I hope you don't take it to heart You helped my Lin Group do not worry I, Lin Wanyi, am not the kind of person who would destroy the bridge after crossing it. I will definitely return this favor to you sooner or later. It's ok, Wanyi We are all family. family Yes, I am here today to propose marriage. I hope the old lady will marry me. Since everyone here is Let's bear witness together. Oh, good. good I think this marriage is the best of both worlds. Best of both worlds haha No I disagree What do you mean? Our wedding Hasn't this been discussed? Oh I see Are you shy? I, Lin Wanyi, have only recognized one person in my life. That's Ye Jun Liu family, please respect yourself presumptuous You can't do whatever you want. Old lady, this is the attitude of the Lin family Aren't you afraid of trouble from the Liu family? Mr. Liu hopes you understand My Liu family's wedding It's not so easy to withdraw The Liu family made their fortune by selling horse racing cards Are there real people now? you How did you know The things you just said Do you dare to let your great grandfather come to me? Say it again in person All the old masters of my Liu family In front of this person I'm just a servant Because I brought him firewood. Carry water to flush the toilet Our Liu family has today's glory. How could he know this? It's so audacious Ye Jun, you can't even clean up the Liu family's ancestor Insulting the toilet cleaner This absurd thing I guess you don't know at all. The methods of the Liu family, the world's number one family What an arrogant and powerless dog. As the reputation of my Liu family ancestor His heart should be punished You are just a puppet of Lord Longzun. Just a lowly and inferior pen The young master dares to touch the woman he likes Blame yourself for knowing too much. Oh, right By the way I know about the Lin Group. It was Lord Long Zun who personally fanned the flames You want to work snort dream My ancestors are the pillars of our family. Great achievements Thousands of disciples He is like my ancestor The Liu family will fight to the death No Ye Jun He didn't mean that. Come on, come on, speak up I'm just stating the facts. What are the accusations? I tell you If it weren't for the fact that your little Liuzi is nearly sixty years old No more this year Just based on what happened today I asked him to brush three bones for me It's light. Arrogance Simply arrogant Did you see it? This kid not only doesn't take the Ning family seriously Today, in public Repeatedly insulting my Liu family ancestor The crime is aggravated Li Yin cut off his life A three-room service Four-room service If there is merit, then it means that I, the Sixth Master, have served. Lin Yao and my father Lin Zhiyuan served together Break this life path Shut up, everyone. You people Did you learn the virtues of propriety, righteousness, integrity and shame from a dog? At the annual meeting You guys work together to detain the guests The reason why the Lin family gradually declined from its heyday Not without reason Seven Old You really You still have the face to speak The third, fourth, sixth and eldest I think you guys should work together to do things. It's better to play with a little girl I apologize to you on behalf of the Lin family. I hope you don't take these things to heart. I kowtow to you today to apologize Hey, wife Absolutely not You all don't believe he is from the Lin family My benefactor The Lin family brought shame to the distinguished guests If the old man were still I have to discipline you descendants. Is it a guest? That person The one who can be called a distinguished guest is not him, Ye Jun. It's Mr. Liu Butler Qi is old Confused Mr. Liu, I'm sorry to have embarrassed you. Visitors After serving Qi Po-Chi, I went back to my room to rest. Don't get involved in this annual meeting. Just kidnap this country boy. Sent to Liu's family to end his life Who of you dares I'm watching you. Who dares to touch him? What if it's my Liu family? Qi Butler I remember you were a big celebrity around Mr. Lin. I admire you, but today's incident has implicated my Liu family. You insist on doing this? Mr. Qin, are you really determined? Want to protect a completely unrelated person? snort I, an old man, put this here today. A guest from afar Who of you dares to touch our Lin family's guests? Wait until I die You haven't stepped down yet. Back off Today's Events So far Not only at the annual meeting The distinguished guest leaves the manor No one in the Lin family can act rashly Otherwise, family law education White Jade You have good character Unique vision Better than them Lin family has you I feel relieved. Thank you, Mr. Since the Lin family doesn't welcome us Then let's go Back to our own little home You dare to ask Mr. Li to come and propose marriage today? Do you want to escape marriage again? If you dare to step out of the Lin family The Lin family will sever ties with you. Think clearly about severing the relationship If you know you are wrong Come here quickly Obediently wait for the family's marriage arrangements I am still the president of Lin Group. No need to marry a chicken and follow the chicken Marry a dog and follow the dog Since the Lin family can't accommodate me From today on, I am the daughter-in-law of the Ye family. Husband, take me away Let's cook Hello, if you want to live to what year Come over here and see me come on get my private jet hurry to dasha go I'm really sorry today You've been wronged That's how my family is. I am also helpless It doesn't matter I know you want to prove yourself today But you are still too impulsive today Facts prove It was Liu Yunxiao who helped me I don't like him But one thing for another Fortunately, Mr. Qi is here today. If he didn't love me I'm afraid it'll be hard to end Don't do this again. That Liu Lingxiao He you are jealous snort He is far from qualified. Ye Jun Actually, I've always wanted to say sorry to you. I'm not such an upright person. Keeping the marriage promise is only one aspect There are other reasons Just for my own selfishness I don't want to marry Liu Linxiao I don't want to be a tool for family marriage. I felt you sorry Are you mad at me? What's there to be angry about? If I were in your position I don't have many choices. So yeah, this is normal. Xie Jun Am I very selfish? fool You resolutely gave up your identity as the second lady of the Lin family. from now on You are no longer the president of your executive group. Are you sure you don't regret it? For you to persevere in the setting sun And leave the evening light among the flowers The party is over The old lady was furious The Liu family even said I Won't Give Up Li Wanyi If you still recognize me as your mother Just go home quickly Parents Leaflet You today You shouldn't have come to our Lin family's annual party. The internal situation of our Lin family is complicated now The accountant continued to look on The family fortune remains Today we are exposed again Let them take advantage of the old lady's misfortune As for Liewu River? It's even more difficult. The water is too deep here. Xiaoye, I'm afraid you're in big trouble again. Father-in-law, rest assured I will break all this Broken What do you use to solve the case? There was still room for maneuver in this matter. Let you make such a fuss today Completely offend Liu Jiadong Poor Wanyi You know you killed our Wanyi. Poor our family Okay, don't be so pessimistic. Things are not as serious as imagined I don't know if you have heard a piece of gossip. Wen Zun will return to Shangjing soon All the major families are terrified. Nerves are tense I believe the Liu family will definitely restrain themselves. Legally justified There is a big man named Long Zun looking down on all living beings. If the Liu family wants to cause trouble, I dare not tell him. But I heard The Liu family seems to have a close relationship with Lord Longzun. What is the relationship? I'm just afraid that the Liu family will fan the flames. Whispering in the ear of Lord Liu You mean people like rural adults? Hey, if Yan Shoutongtian wants to punish someone That's not just a matter of one sentence. Talking about the five chairs in Beijing It's time to sort it out. Now we can only take one step at a time Manyo what's your plan I haven't decided yet. Although I am no longer the president of the company But I believe that as long as I work hard I can definitely create another Lin Group I have a suggestion. Speak out I know whether Wanyi is interested in Guangsha International You mean Guangsha International, the world's largest financial group? I just need a phone call You can take over Guangsha International As the new president Guangsha International has great financial strength Even 10 Lin Groups can't compare How can I be qualified for such a high position? Ye Ju, please don't make such jokes again. Leaflet And me Also made an appointment with guests I'm afraid it's coming soon. Then Xiaoxu won't bother you for now. Dinner Also send it What am I Where are the people? Annoy people from these small places I can't change my habit of bragging that day Okay, okay. You should say less Why should I say less? Why are you so sad? Lao Xu, please come in. Sit, sit, sit. Old Xu is here. Come and sit down. oops Why Isn't it because it's late? This kid has grown up. Hey, this kid has been very smart since he was young. It's no surprise that he has his own ideas and plans Stop worrying about it. Why What's this What's this I see your old problem has come back again. Haha, but I advise you not to watch it. Lest you be disappointed Hey, I'm talking to you Everything is hidden With our friendship Is there something I can't see? No suction picture Why Second place Do you really have this huge picture at home? Why Tell me how can you bear to take it out and return it today? Name list This is our son-in-law from out of town. Delivered to our door What else can I give you if it's a fake? Special delivery of false Doesn't he know Did our Lin family start out by making cultural relics? This result is ridiculous You don't even know what's going on today. The two old faces of me and Lao Lin I can't wait to find a place on the ground to crawl into. Just die Fake Why This texture is not fake. Hey Xue, Don't make fun of me. Why Good! Free to express yourself A nice picture of cloth What a masterpiece! Why This is a major discovery. Hey, tell me who slandered this photo as belonging to Yanzu If you have the guts, let him stand and spit and scold Old Xu, you mean this is true 100% authentic Rumors about the History House Tang Yin created two paintings called &quot;Never Stop&quot; One is a sketch The other one is the big picture I saw the one in your house. In terms of completion, it is far inferior to the one in front of you. God has eyes I have lived most of my life. Finally I had the pleasure to see There is no harm in seeing such a masterpiece Yeah Is what that boy said true? Haven't been back for so many years. The wealthy and powerful people in Beijing It really impressed me good very good Nong Zunxi Nong Nong Zunxi Nong Night Blade Commander Dragon Bird exist Pass my words Notice to all the cloud people in Shangjing Wait for me, Yelongzun, to be silent for three years Now the cloud is back Welcome the return of the Dragon King to the throne On top of the building I will grant you a special pardon for Yun Guiyan With all the might of the Dragon Lord when Three days later good Three days later I attend voluntarily Notify the Five Great Families in Beijing Get ready to transfer funds to Guiying Longzun Remember it's Guiying In addition to Long Zun's relatives Others Regardless of status No matter how powerful If anyone dares to look directly Dragon Zun Zhan is Looks like everyone has been notified. Three years have passed The Supreme Being Re-emerge This year's Yunnan-Guizhou Banquet is different from previous years. Dragon King meets the public for the first time Everyone should take positive action Raise the safety level of the area within a thousand miles to top three Five major families Prepare the highest etiquette Cloud Returns to the Wild Goose Adult Lu Geng Is it really coming this time? That's the most mysterious one. The supreme figure with all-powerful power If my Mu family can gain his favor The Widow of Mu You'd better restrain yourself. Don't wait until three days later Arrived in front of Lord Longzun I can't control your daze Okay, about the matter We still have to follow the arrangements of the first family, the Liu family. Don't forget that the ancestor of the Liu family is the leader of the entire Shangjing. The only one who can talk to the rural adults Reaching Heaven It is true that the clouds and swallows are returning soon You still have to take care of your subordinates. Don't make any noise. To avoid squatting instability Especially some smelly rats Clean it up for me soon. For example, this bastard named Ye Jun stop I am Han Xinyan I came here specially from Yunzhou. My business information I have the key locked in the willow Liu Shang is not someone that anyone can see if they want to. I am the future pearl of Yunzhou City It's not something natural. I heard that the Tibetan capital will hold a reincarnation banquet Long Zun will be present at the banquet I came here to see the Liu family. Request for an invitation to Fengyunguiyan Please ask Long Zun himself to speak at the banquet You mean Yunzhou City is yours? Of course, although it is not yet But it won't take long You're not talking shit. I fucking want Long Zun to give me the Business Scriptures. I want to go in. I can see how pretty you are. Do you want to play with me for two days? Okay, I'll give you two lines. How about it Should I consider Consider so little Do not touch me Sooner or later, Long Zun will give Yunzhou City to him. He must be into me. I will be Long Zun's son-in-law in the future You stinky people What qualifications do you have to dislike me? shameless Dare to hit me For rural areas With your appearance, you still want to be a rural woman No peeing either. See if you are qualified enough He deserves it. He has now lost the qualification to be in Yunzhou City All partners have lost contact with the Han family Life is not easy Why did Li Guang go to the country? Psychologically normal Send him 500 orders How many points did you lose? Good Dragon Lord Master just The company received a grant from Guangsha International Dading Guess how much 50 billion. I have never seen so much money in my life. What 50 billion? It seems that Long Zun has not forgotten Han Zi I haven't forgotten about Yunzhou City. My Lord, it must be Another sentence With this 50 billion order I, Han Xingyan, will definitely be able to prove it My efforts are no more successful than anyone else's. Wild Army Why are you here? When did you come to Shangjing? Who regulates who enters and who leaves Beijing? Why can't I come if you can? You follow me Ye Jing is persistent There is no one between us Cannot Look at you now Glamorous Eating the soft rice of the second lady of the Lin family It does look a bit like that. It's not enough to install a neighbor I found this one outside. Ye Jun, you are really cheap. you misunderstood I just happened to be passing by Passing by I see You're here to ask for a housekeeper, right? It seems that the woman did not intend to bring That's right, Yunguiyan will arrive in three days. There are only a handful of eligible participants Only the core executives of the five major families Who wouldn't want to be a part of this top kiss? I understand you're in a hurry to climb the pole If before I can still help you. But I'm sorry. We now say that you mean You have already obtained the qualifications of Chen Jiayu Guiyan Yes, it's okay to tell you I have received 50 billion super points from Guangsha International If nothing unexpected happens The noble families in Shangjing will soon take the initiative Look, it's here. Ye Jun waited until the clouds returned and the geese The gap between you and me will only get bigger take care Tiejun, shouldn't you explain it in detail? The painting you gave my dad yesterday Wan Yi Ye Jun, you are here Uncle Xu, let me introduce you This is Uncle Xu Um, this is my husband Ye Jun Hello Hello, I met you today. Mr. Ye is much younger than I thought. Your painting of Tang Yin This really opened my eyes. Ha ha ha ha Uncle Qi has been my father's friend for many years. He came to our house for tea yesterday I saw your painting by chance. I didn't expect that your image of restlessness was actually real. You tell the truth Where did you get that painting? Didn't I tell you everything? It was sent to you by Tang Yingben himself. You're right. Uncle Xu asked you to come over today. It's for some work stuff. oh Why I'm afraid Mr. Nie doesn't know yet. I don't have any other skills, old man. I love historical relics all my life. Just did this A strange ancient tomb was unearthed some time ago. Many scholars From its appearance, its origin cannot be identified. I plan to open it today and take a look So please ask Mr. Ye to be a consultant Please help and take a look too. Mr. Xu You may be looking for Mrs. Actually, I Just an amateur How can we compare with professionals? Don't say these Don't say these Let's go in. The link department is a simple actor But we don't care about these Get used to it Mr. Ye That stock This is the goal of our research today. Why does this thing look so familiar? look familiar snort This is the consultant you hired. Yes, Mr. Ye is Lao Lin's son-in-law. I specially invited you to help us take a look It turns out he's a relative. Ye Ye said I just heard you say You said this antique looks familiar So to say Do you usually study these? Ignorance of knowledge Since this Then you should know what to say. What not to say alright Mr. Ye is the consultant I invited No Disrespect It's Mr. Ye I still have some reports that I haven't finished processing. You can take a look first. I'll come over when I'm done with my work. Give me some quick hands and feet If any error occurs I'll be the first one to make a decision for you And the data measurement over there Hurry up, everyone. What are you doing? One by one And Xu Shao Don't be angry Such an important discovery Can it not be serious? If everyone does this like you Much better sad Hate Okay, get ready. Ready to open Remember, don't break Monitor Miss Lin, our fathers have always been good friends. And your Lin family is very knowledgeable Started as a cultural play You don't have any problem here We are very skeptical But he is a complete waifu Not yet eligible to stand Otherwise I'll take a look. Yes, but not here Please ask this gentleman to move out of the door. Xu Po, you're going too far. Ye Jun is my husband He is a consultant brought here by Uncle Xu himself. Reasonable He has the right to be here. He is a consultant The person Xu Lao called Logically speaking, he is qualified to witness it. Since Miss Lin said so Then I'll give Miss Lin some face. But let me know in advance If some people don't understand Don't disturb our work for a while. Don't blame me for being rude let's start actually This ring must be at least 800 years old Even longer very strange Unearthed in the tomb In addition to this exquisite black box Nothing at all It's like a tomb dedicated to beards. What kind of tomb is this? This thing looks so familiar is his What did you say oh nothing Just remembered some old things in the past Vice President, please stop talking nonsense. at that age Rings mostly symbolize power I think most of them are men watching. No The size of this ring reflects The owner of this tomb should be a woman And I guess Most likely a lady from a wealthy family No, I think what you said is good. OK OK Don't bother Mr. Ye Right What insights do you have? I don't understand anything. Go talk about your good In this case Let me express my humble opinion. First of all, I can judge that the tomb owner must be a male Actually, you all overlooked one thing. This silk scarf Initial judgment based on material This scarf It is not affordable for ordinary people. And this scarf has a dragon pattern on it What does the dragon pattern represent? I don't need to say more. So I infer that the tomb owner The person must be a male relative of a royal family or aristocrat. For drivers How could I forget this? Our school is very knowledgeable. This eyesight Even when Xu was young, he would not give in. Otherwise, it is said that amateurs are amateurs. I don't know anything, so I'm just talking nonsense What did you say? I really don't understand But I can be sure of one thing What you said is all wrong. Why do you say we are wrong? Do you dare to say it again? Listen to your meaning It seems like you care differently Then you tell me We studied for half a month. Only 5% of the information was inferred so If you could figure out 10% of the mystery of the tomb owner's identity We admit that vision You don't actually need to deal with this tomb. I'd better tell you directly Who is the owner of this tomb? Her name is Qin Wan A blue dragon What You mean one of the four famous beauties? Qin Wan'er Qin Beauty Nonsense Qin Maer is the first of the four great beauties in history It is also the most mysterious existence Throughout the ages There is no relic I found traces of Qin Maer. I'm looking at you It's just nonsense What a great Qin Maer What a brothel girl Then I ask you How do you explain this scarf? The dragon is the supreme symbol Don't you want to say Just because of his Qinglong origin Even if he is the first of the four famous people Can I use the royal stuff? In this world It's not just babies who become symbols If you don't believe me, just pretend I didn't say it. Why do I feel that this ring looks familiar? etc. This ring is actually a pair Xie Jun, where did you get this ring? Uh, Miss Lin This thing of hers is new How can it be compared with ancient objects? Whether it is value or significance This is not on the same level. No, no, no If I'm not mistaken The ring on his hand is not a new gift box but It's an old item If you trace back 1,000 years ago What to say Where did you steal this ring? do you know You are guilty of stealing a tiger. How dare you conclude that this ring is not mine? Not stolen Is it possible that it is inherited from ancestors? I tell you I don't believe you when you say this. Ye Jun I believe you would never do such a stealing thing Where did you get this ring? I admit that this ring was not given by you. Hahaha Because this ring Qing Wan'er put it on me in person. So what the Lord gave me Is this stealing? Ha ha ha ha What kind of psychopath can be a consultant? Ye Jun is enough You should stop joking. Miss Yin, you are the daughter of a wealthy family. I respect that but he's making shit up here. It has seriously affected my salary. So sorry Mr. Ye, please leave. Go to you Where does the neurosis come from? Go away, don't delay our research. Why do you need me to come and invite you in person? Damn thing shut up What do you all want to do? Can't you tell Mr. Ye is joking? He is the consultant I hired. All distinguished guests, please come up here. Mr. Ye's ring Since you have one of the pair Then you must know his secret. I hope Mr. Ye can provide more information. Hidden truth you are leaving I am a free and easy person. Stop and go between mountains and rivers This is what I've always done. Dragon I don't like the name of the prince. I prefer to call you Yejun it's the same A thousand miles away from you, there will always be a farewell I won't say much to you. This is Wan'er visiting the flower market a few days ago. Small items selected Just treat it as a parting gift without any sentimentality Please don't go in first, sir. Son Will come back Things are different now. This ring was given to me by an old friend. But I didn't know until today He was a pair I see Hum Dad You are also here Since Mr. Ye said so Let's analyze these. You definitely haven't seen these. We, as scholars, are only basing our decisions on facts. Not just one move Try whatever you say If you have real ability Let me tell you about the origins of these affairs. These rice papers have not yet been opened How can I know? Mr. Xu, what you said is wrong. Since he can use a ring Can determine the identity of the tomb owner Qinmaer is the first of the four beauties in ancient times. Then some rice paper How can we judge it? not to mention Are these ancient artifacts the remains of Qinmaer? Not 100% confirmed yet If he doesn't show some real skills How can I convince the public? Mr. Yin, this is fine. I haven't seen these things. But I can roughly guess the second one. Okay, this is what you said. Wait, I want to hear the truth about these ancient tombs. So I'll give you three answers. So that it won't be spread that I'm embarrassed These rice papers are for calligraphy and painting, not Similar poems are not Could it be a tool for pasting lanterns? It is neither poetry nor calligraphy or painting. Even civilian uses have been excluded by you Then tell me What are these? The ancients were not as profound as you thought. These are love letters Love letter haha Love letter, you can come up with it Mr. Ye Your idea is a bit different. There are countless suitors for Qin Wan's son's hand Logically speaking There were naturally many talented people who wrote love letters to him at that time. Unfortunately You overlooked a problem Historical records Qin Wan'er was admired by three princes at the same time Involving the Royal Family I dare to ask, more than 1,000 years ago Who in the world dares to write a love letter to Qin Wan'er? Who dares The woman who wrote love letters to kings and princes and made them crazy ah how I think I made a wrong judgment. no I just think you think too much Because these love letters are not Could it be that he asked my son to write it for someone else? That's right, hahahaha Oh, the young are so formidable. Young people nowadays really don't dare to say anything nonsense. Ye Jun is like Qin Wan'er's senior Is there any man in the world who is worthy of a love letter? What's more, I write letters. Think about it Leaders, you will also judge Of course I believe you But this is too Why don't we see what the professionals say? Uncle Xu, what do you think? Before these are opened It's all just empty talk. Open it this How can this be What's wrong this The mountain has trees and the trees have branches I love you but you don't know it I see all living things are grass and trees I only see you as the green mountain This exquisite dice is red bean Do you know my deep longing for you? You live at the Yangtze River Head I live in Changjiangtou I miss you every day, but I can't see you Drinking Yangtze River Water Qin Wanyejun This is impossible Qing Er actually wrote a love letter to a man I have written so many Feng Yejun Ye Jun What is Ye Jun like? So what you said is true It's a love letter It's really Qin Wan'er Why is it happening like that Damn thing You understand now Why did I ask Mr. Ye to be my consultant? Look at them. A wealth of knowledge Be neither arrogant nor impatient Look at you again I understand a little bit Hum, I don't know how high the sky is How thick is the ground? Do you understand now? You also saw what it means to have someone better than you There is always someone better Mr. Ye Old man, I am convinced. Sir, you are really talented. Today, it is the most mysterious of the four beauties, Qin Wan'er The traces left by Qin Wan'er in history First time seeing the light of day again Thank you. How come your name is on it? It seems that you don't need to leave to study here. No idea To a person like Qin Wan'er who was trusted in ancient times There is also the pain of missing someone but not being able to get them Ye Ju, you really picked a good name. He actually has the same name as that ancient genius. How come I, your husband, am so bad? Of course not bad Don't worry, don't worry At tomorrow's cloud banquet I will definitely explain it to Long Zun in person. Since I chose to marry you I will definitely stay with you forever Even Dragon Lord can't do it. Have you ever thought about a possibility? The Ye Jun you mentioned has the same surname as mine Actually, I gave it to you. So you mean I'm competing with Qin Guan'er for the cheap rice. Besides, if you live for more than a thousand years Then you have become an old monster now. Why do you regret marrying an old monster? No, if my man lived for more than a thousand years It must be interesting I'll be old by then. Take the young you out It must be very impressive Maybe tomorrow the clouds will return and the geese will be happy. It's time to tell you everything. Miss Han is so valued by Guangsha International What a blessing! Just a 50 billion order Compared to the Liu family, it's nothing. I still need to learn a lot from Mr. Liu. 50 billion is not much But with Guangsha behind Description Miss Han It has entered the vision of rural adults Of course, we can go to Beijing to join the major families. Cooperation This is the plot of Yun Gui Yan Han Xiaodi can get a love Wait till tomorrow Ye Jun, I will prove it I am Han Xinyan She will only be better than the second daughter of the Lin family that you chose. Hundred times, thousand times The eldest lady, the old lady, ordered You should take a break. Be prepared for tomorrow's homecoming night Got it? Back off. Dragon Master I'll see you after tonight. I really want to give you everything I have. Top Ten Groups in Beijing Welcome overseas friends Mr. Tea is here We'll talk about business later. I want a mirror ornament tomorrow Which vocational high school Liu Shaoai Xinyan Please call my name Han Xinyan Yes, yes, yes, I'm covering my mouth Mr. Liu, this way please Sunset You came This chick must be the eldest son of the Liu family, Mr. Liu. Hahaha What a talented person! Hahahaha, our Han family's small business will I'm counting on Young Master Liu to help me. Young Master Liu is extremely powerful My Home Because the Liu family is a pawn Despite the deployment I heard that your family drives for Lin Wanyi. Although my father drives for the second young lady But the second lady is your woman Isn't this equivalent to still doing things for you? As long as Liu Shao appreciates I will be your driver in the future I'll bring you here today I just want to explain it to Long Zun. Solve the trouble of Liu's marriage I'm telling you No matter what happens later Let me handle it Okay, I'll listen to you. Yo, isn't this Ye Jun? Second Miss Why did you bring him to such an important occasion? I'm not talking about you. You really don't take the Liu family seriously. As Liu Shao's fiancee You do that? Tonight What do you mean? The whole of Shangjing Everyone knows that you are my Liu Yunxiao's fiancee It's okay on weekdays Today, I brought this guy named Ye to Yun Guiyan. What do you think of me, Liu Yunxiao? Don't tell my wife what to do. I'm afraid you don't know Why on earth have you lived till now? Ye Jun, you are about to die and you don't even know it Why do you think Young Master Liu didn't contact you these days? He did it for Zhang Zong, the Lord Yun Guiyan didn't have time to spare That's right If Young Master Liu is willing One sentence can let you kill all the demons again Don't even think about it If you want to move, ask me first if Lin Wanyi agrees What a great aura! My good sister You have been kicked out of the Lin family by grandma and all ties with them have been severed. She still thinks she is the second daughter of the Lin family and shows off her power outside. Take a look You gave birth to a good daughter Grandma, you still have to recognize me as your grandma Just split this annoying waste Marry into the Liu family steadily Serve Master Liu or else The door of our Lin family will not open for you. No I would rather not return to my family in this life We must also stand firmly beside Ye Jun Don't worry, Wanyi After today Nobody Can force you to do things you don't want to do Including them The Liu family is still thinking about the future I'm afraid you won't live to see that day. That's right, you not only stole the Liu family's marriage And openly tarnished the reputation of the Liu family Look, do you know who he is? He is the famous ancestor of the Liu family. Why don't you just go over there and kowtow and apologize? The Liu family is the most aristocratic family in Shangjing How dare you call yourself He also claimed that the Liu family was descended from slaves. I think you don't want to live anymore. Not noisy. This old man once openly spread rumors at your family's annual meeting Tarnish your reputation His heart should be punished Don't worry, ancestor. I will bring this man to your feet. Kneel down and apologize to you My ancestor is here Why don't you get over here and kneel down? Your Yong family was originally a slave family. The incense continues to this day It's a huge artifact. in this world I have only heard of slaves kneeling to their masters I have never heard of a master kneeling and a slave being unbridled. You reap what you sow. Don't think you said something that is not true. You can escape I want to see What if I ask you to kneel down? Ye Jun will give you one last chance Why are you kneeling in front of my Liu family ancestor? Ye Jun I didn't hear the voice wrongly. Is he really holding me hostage? Why do you need to laugh at yourself? Divine punishment God damn you I'll make you kneel You have to kneel What a damn punishment Do you really think you are the master of the Liu family? Ancestor Ancestor Ancestor Don't worry, he won't die. But only this one Your Liu family's fortune has been declining for a hundred years. You and other descendants I'm afraid it's you, Mr. Liulin Xiaoding I'll remember the hatred forever. Nonsense You must have been rude. Repeatedly humiliated my Liu family ancestor This is why the ancestor was so angry My Liu family heard that you and Ye Jun are irreconcilable. Lin Wanye, look at the man you are looking for what The ancestors of the Liu family were all harmed by him. It wasn't me who harmed your ancestors. Yes, he is your Liu family What a pity! Xiao Liuzi has been loyal all his life. But his descendants snort It's hard to describe Bold How dare you call the Liu family's father Xiao Liu? I think you will leave early today. Everyone Originally, I saw that at today's Yungui Banquet For the sake of Lord Longzun's dignity I don't want to make this matter unpleasant. But he repeatedly offended my Liu family Even more outrageous My ancestor was so angry that he lost consciousness My Liu family has no mutual understanding with him. Irreconcilable Irreconcilable Ye Jun Is this the result you wanted? Could it be You must sacrifice your life. What if I don't have the ability? Ye Jun Is it so difficult to admit that you are incompetent? Should I divorce you? Is it such a big blow to you? Miss Han, I think you misunderstood. When you and I divorced I was indeed a little surprised But it also taught me to see some people and things clearly. As for the blow you mentioned? IMHO I, Ye Jun, have seen too many storms in my life. You are nothing. Ye Jun What on earth do you want to be strong for? Yes Yes I admit Your new wife Lin Wanyi really But I am also doing this for Mr. Liu's sake. I didn't say anything. Do you really think I am not as good as him? You are wrong Now I have received the top 50 billion from Guangsha International Even the major families in Beijing They were all polite to me and the Han family. And what is he, Lin Wanye? No interest And I don't have such top-notch abilities. He has been driven out of the mountain. Not in the family I admit that I regret it. Is it that difficult? Have you ever thought about a question How did the 50 billion order come from? What do you mean What is he doing? Just a stink bug How dare you touch something that the Liu family ancestor didn't know to prepare? 3 minutes later He will wake up Since you've cleaned more than a dozen toilets for me I'll let you live a peaceful old age What happened to Ye Jun's 50 billion order? What did you mean by that just now? You will know it later. Please invite Long Zun to the stage he He is Dragon Mouth This is impossible Ye Xuan You are just a pawn of Lord Longzun Just a puppet Who gave you the courage? Get down on your knees! Puppet is not wrong Lord Long Zun is mysterious and unpredictable Rarely appear in person The dragon is always seen from the head but not the tail Little known And I, Lin Yao I'm afraid it's in the scene Except for the Liu family ancestor The only person who has had close contact with Dragon Lord Although I have forgotten the true appearance of Dragon Lord But that back The sword is still vivid in my mind. I spent 20 years investigating. The sword in Long Zun's hand It is the supreme divine weapon Tenglong Sword bestowed by the king himself You're talking about this thing Cang Cang Dragon Sword He is Dragon Lord So Yunzhou City is his Wu Baiyun is also him No Impossible I don't believe it. I don't believe it. I do not believe Tell me about that actor He pretended to be a rural You, expose him quickly You should expose him quickly. Shut up I meet my master. What Lantern Group Liu Sibai will build the Dragon Tower Ye Zhao led the dragon bird to welcome the Dragon Lord Yungui Building Welcome Dragon Lord Yungui Building Ten wealthy families Five great families Listen to orders Dragon Master He is my Lord Dragon My Lord is mine Why don't you kneel down? Dragon Ha ha ha ha He is Dragon Lord Hey, he is Dragon Lord Ha ha ha ha Damn it's Dragon Lord Dragon Lord is here Those who do not kneel will be beheaded If you have any trouble in Beijing, please forgive me. The best time to have sex For the sake of Xiao Youzi's former loyalty Death penalty can be avoided Living a crime The Lin family in Shangjing used marriage as a threat Do something forced Lin Zhiping has lost the battle The rest will be severely punished After today Yunzhou City abandoned Lin Wanyi and accepted it completely This notice A home for punishing evil and promoting good The Princes Under the Clouds Don't let small kindnesses go unrewarded Don't do evil no matter how small it is. We will obey the order of the Dragon Lord We will obey the order of the Dragon Lord rise turn out to be It was my fault all along. Lin The Lin family opened a real furnace with their own hands It's all your fault. It's all your fault. If you hadn't said that the rural areas are already over 40 If you didn't confuse the world How did our Lin family end up like this? Grandma, what I said is true. 20 years ago, Long Zun was about the same age as he is now But so many years have passed How come you haven't aged at all? In addition to being Dragon Lord, Ye Jun Are these true about Tang Yin, Tang Bohu and Qin Wan'er? Yes 5000 years ago I have seen this land From Buwu to Dynasty 3000 years ago, I performed the will of the kings with the two kings of Wen and Wu Two thousand years ago I walked through the mountains Thousands of mountains and rivers Drinking with Steve The overall view of the Gongdu Building I have drunkenly slept among the streams of countless talented men I once played chess with the immortal poet in the courtyard. We are still talking I have also witnessed countless close friends Grow old beside me Eventually it turned into a hill of yellow earth I have also witnessed countless joys and sorrows. Aoyama Immortal Time flies I'm still young I'm still here Such a legend I crushed my bones with my own hands Always you're right I regret it We still have 50 billion And you've been married to him for three years There is still room for redemption. You should think of a solution quickly Apologize and make peace quickly I won't listen anymore It's too late 50 billion to ignite the account But compared to missing London It's nothing at all mom let's go This is no longer Let's go Zhiping Our son-in-law She is really a rural girl. Oh hey Zhiping Zhiping Hey, pinch me. I'm not dreaming. oops They really gave us a big surprise. Very good What if I've been thinking This won't be too cruel for you. Today I will tell you everything I have So why do you know now? 20 years later, I am still young Why does Tang Yan's non-drug use still exist in my opinion? And those ancient horrors I saw yesterday I recognized it immediately Now I tell you everything Will you still be so steadfast? Yanjun you bastard Is immortality what I want? Why don't you let me give you a baby? Dragon Master My Lord, I am your most ardent admirer. Your most devoted follower Can I be your concubine? Or a personal maid. Shut up and stop talking nonsense After Ye Ju, I am old You can't dislike me You have to take care You are not allowed to look for young and beautiful girls certainly You are all here today. Get drunk I'm waiting for the Dragon Tamer