Welp, a rabbit's been pulled from a hat and now I've got egg on my face. In a move that very much surprised yours truly, many automakers have announced their commitment to adopting the formerly-proprietary Tesla charging connector for their North American Market vehicles - a connector which, assuming things keep going is on its way to being an honest-to-goodness industry standard J3400. And now it's your turn to be surprised: I'm all for it! Yes, although I am personally quite annoyed by this outcome, that's only because it's a hit to my ego. I really didn't think this was going to happen, but now that we know more of the details - assuming they hold true, this is welcome news. Ultimately I just want the industry to coalesce around a single charging plug. And, well, I was wrong about which one would win the plug wars. At least, probably - the dust hasn't quite settled yet honestly, the Tesla connector is better. Take note, Tesla Stans, I said it. And with what has recently come to light, there really isn't a downside to the rest of the industry adopting the connector standard hereafter known as the North American Charging Standard, I have four things I'd like to accomplish in this video: First, explain what makes the NACS connector And just to lay this out up front, if you're somewhere else, this video doesn't really apply to you. Second, I want to talk about the change to Third, I want to address why automakers are making the switch And fourthly, I will get a little bit on the spicy side and share my broader thoughts and opinions I will freely admit that on the whole Tesla always had a better plug, but I really hope we don't try and copy everything they do. First things first, what is NACS? Why is it different from the industry standard known as CCS? And why is North America uniquely suited to use it? To save time, I'm gonna keep this explanation pretty surface level - there are links to other videos of mine if you want to learn more. This is the charging port on my car. This connector is generally known as J1772, It has five pins: three big ones for handling power plus two small ones for communication and control. This connector has been around since 2009, though few cars actually accept that much. Due to practical constraints, charging through this port just isn't that fast, though it doesn't need to be - the whole idea of AC What we call "car chargers" are really just smart power cords which deliver the same AC line voltage that runs through your walls to the port on your car. The actual charger module, meaning the thing with electronics that converts the AC power into the correct is part of the car. That makes wiring up a new AC charge point and it will work with any car regardless of battery pack size, nominal pack voltage, The charge speeds you can get through this port where your car will sit for several hours at a time, but they aren't anywhere near fast enough for taking a road trip. Battery packs of the size found in modern and even more if we want charge times to get down to the 15 minute range. Luckily, we thought of a solution. Under this little flap lie two gigantic power pins. These are there to facilitate high-power direct-current charging, and to accomplish this, An offboard DC fast charger will connect through That charger can be figuratively and literally huge, with a massive grid connection capable of delivering 350 kilowatts or more. Using a defined signaling protocol on the the car's battery management system will and that charger does as it's told to juice up the pack. With this technology, the only meaningful limit to charge time is, well, the state of battery technology. The addition of these DC pins give this charge connector its name, CCS, It is a J1772 AC port combined with two DC pins below it. In Europe, this same exact augmentation was done also known as the Mennekes connector. Although the North American CCS1 and the European the AC portion of the connectors are different thanks largely to the fact that European homes are often wired for three-phase power, which is just not a thing that happens here. Every consumer device, electric vehicle charging equipment, is single-phase only, so our AC charging connector only supports single-phase power. And yes, I know about J3068, but I'm ignoring it for this video Look that up if you want to. But then... there's Tesla. When the Model S was getting planned, CCS didn't exist yet. In fact, in the very earliest days, neither did the J1772 connector. So Tesla came up with their own thing. And this is that. Or, at least, one side of it anyway. This is an adapter I have to switch between Tesla's connector and J1772, and what you're seeing here is the inlet side of the connector, If I managed to make it to a Destination charger you're seeing that now. Now, you'll notice it has the same five pins as the standard J1772 connector, they even have identical functions! But two of them are a heckuva lot larger than the rest. They're not just girthy, they're also quite long - about 30 millimeters. If you haven't already guessed what's going on, Tesla did a sneaky and uses the same two power pins These power pins are massively oversized for AC charging, as in that case line voltage is sent to the car's onboard charger through these pins, before sending it into the battery pack just But when DC fast charging, or as Tesla calls it, Supercharging, a contactor in the car closes which shunts these big pins to a set of beefy cables and the external Supercharger now shoves electrons in all on its own. It's a very clever system, I must admit. And importantly it only really works The NACS connector is conceptually identical to the AC-only J1772 connector. In fact for AC charging it even uses the same The only difference between these two plugs This scheme couldn't really be done while also supporting three-phase charging, at least not without redesigning the Type 2 connector. And that's why the Type 2 connector would get the exact same Now, as clever as Tesla's idea is, it's not entirely without downsides. With CCS, the AC and DC sides of the connector The AC pins go to the onboard charger, so it's impossible for the wrong voltage to go to the wrong place. Combining them as Tesla did requires a little more consideration But, in fairness, it's not all that much. Adding a contactor to the onboard charger or you could also design the onboard charger which is what Tesla currently does if my understanding is correct. But combining the two functions also has a lot of upsides. The largest one being the smaller connector size which makes handling and inserting the plug much easier, Making things even easierer is the connector's shape helped even further by chamfering on the inlet side. The latching mechanism here is also flat out much better. If there's one thing I've never liked about J1772, it's the external mechanical latch that floats above It wasn't much of a problem in the early days, but when DC fast charging came along That was done by way of a simple bodge: often a pin will stick out just above the latch, I mean, it does work, but it's never felt all that secure, and we have seen plenty of broken latches on public charging equipment which is annoying at best and a safety hazard at worst The NACS connector uses a much more elegant system: there's a recess (or hole) on the plug It's a lot more mechanically robust, The car still needs some sort of actuator but so does CCS so it's no worse. The only thing that I find a bit unsettling about this latch design is that a dead car could potentially become stuck to a charger But there are ways around that, like the manual release lever Note to every car designer and engineer ever: clearly marked manual overrides for electronic latches are a good thing! And for the love of all things holy please do not design them out Thanks. Now, before I move on to the section where I talk about the change I'm sorry but I do just need to refresh everybody on the timelines here. I can't help it. I didn't think other automakers would be interested first, this was proprietary and Tesla retained control over it until late last year - and yes, people are gonna argue with that in the comments and insist that Tesla offered the use of their connector and indeed charging network as far back as 2014, but that offer came with many strings attached which is demonstrated most clearly by the fact that nobody ever took them up on it. And second, because it was proprietary until last year, we didn't really know anything about its capabilities CCS, meanwhile, had published specifications. Wild, I know! And guess what? It was more powerful than Tesla's connector had demonstrated. in fact, in terms of charging stations that are actually on the ground, it still is. The DC pins of CCS can handle 500 amps, and they was designed to support up to 1000 volt charging That high current and high voltage allowed for 350 kilowatt CCS charging stations, and they've been on the ground (albeit in small numbers) since 2017. Meanwhile, Tesla's V3 supercharger, didn't come out until 2019. So for literally half a decade at this point, the choice for other automakers was between a connector which had only ever demonstrated 250 kW charging, and a connector controlled by an industry standards body supported 800V battery architectures, and all while retaining compatibility with the existing Level 2 AC charging equipment. It was perfectly rational, and I'd argue correct, However, three significant barriers have now fallen: first, Tesla actually, for realsies, released details on their connector's design. Last November, they announced that We invite charging network operators and vehicle manufacturers to put the Tesla charging connector and charge port, now called the North American Charging Standard, on their equipment and vehicles." I will add that whether they've actually I am not a lawyer, and my search was inconclusive, I will assume in good faith that they have. Second, and relatedly, This was a giant open question for years because to this day and so we've never seen their connector pushed beyond about 500 volts. Through a small and backward-compatible revision to its design which insets the conductors a little further into the connector body, it now does indeed support 1,000V. Interesting that they had to redesign it, though, isn't it? But at least they did. I am still very skeptical of Tesla's claim that the connector can handle 900 amps, but it does seem capable of handling 500 just fine The third thing that's changed is what's making me most at peace Going forward, NACS will speak the same language that CCS does. Up 'til now, Tesla Superchargers communicated with Tesla cars but as they have made moves to turn their plug into a real standard, they've decided to add support That means that, eventually, the only difference between a car with a CCS port and a NACS port will be... the port itself. And that means simple adapters can be used to switch between connector types. As of this writing, that's what the companies that have announced their intention to switch once a few things regarding billing and what not get sorted, they'll be able to rock up to a Tesla Supercharger using the adapter and juice up. Now, as great as this is, there are some cans of worms here. Because CCS separates the AC and DC sides, drivers will need to carry two adapters: (like this one). That is a little confusing, and leads to some potential concerns regarding However, there are a lot of checks that happen both on the car side so this may not be a problem at all in practice. But it is something to be aware of and I hope a sensible means of detecting that the wrong adapter is being used is put in-place. The other can of worms has to do with how much current They're gonna have relatively short links inside of them and they could in theory simply be huge aluminum rods or something like that so I am pretty certain handling 500 amps won't be too much of an ask, but that leads us to the other thing: Tesla has in the past and to this day sort of just... ignored the conventional current limitations of a given conductor. Now, I've actually come around to agreeing with that practice. A hard-and-fast current limit makes sense for the wiring in your home that runs within walls and may span dozens of meters. But you can safely exceed a current limit for short periods of time, Tesla's approach has been to put temperature sensors in strategic places And so long as they're not getting too hot, then they go ham. I used to think this was pretty haphazard but I'm no longer bothered by it. Again, Tesla stans, mark that down. But in a land of adapters, I can see that strategy becoming problematic. Maybe the thermal conductivity of the links within the adapter body will be sufficient for sensors in the handle and car to detect overheating, and thus I have no reason to worry. But maybe it would be smarter to know whether Won't really matter to me since I have an 800V car which peaks at about 300 amps despite sucking down 240 kilowatts, but I figured I'd bring this up in case nobody's thought of it. Anyway, with a reiteration of the monumentally important caveat from the beginning, so long as the communications remain the same and there's really not much of a reason to be upset, here. And I'm genuinely not! Eventually I'll grab one of those adapters if I need to Assuming, that is, CCS is in fact going away So now, why are automakers suddenly itching to make this switch? Well, there's a pretty simple answer: the CCS charging networks available here in the US all kinda suck. There's only one complete network which lets you travel anywhere in the country (which isn't even that complete, sorry the Dakotas) and, uh, that network doesn't have a great track record. I've personally never been stranded by it, but back in April I went on a trip in which, to start the chargers, at Every Single Stop, and more than half of those stations had broken NFC readers It wasn't great, Meanwhile, the Tesla Supercharger network largely... just works! It's not perfect, no, but most locations have far more redundancy However, I think automakers are in for a surprise if they're not careful, here. The problems that the CCS networks have experienced In my travels with my Hyundai, once I manage to activate the charger, that is. So long as I can get to that point, I simply plug it in and it has worked with only a few exceptions - and every one of those was due to the haphazard way that CCS stations are configured which led to a poorly-aligned plug which didn't latch correctly. While that itself is a problem, it's the least of issues we see. The main problems with the CCS networks are poor maintenance, horrible up-time, largely terrible apps which are often the only way to start charging, and last but definitely not least, a lack of interoperability testing Let me go through those one by one. Starting with maintenance. The fastest DC fast chargers have liquid-cooled cables. That allows those cables to have thinner-than-normal This is really neat, but loads and loads of chargers are out there in which the liquid cooling part is broken. When that happens, the charger will de-rate itself which tends to result in abysmally slow charging speeds. Making this even worse, until quite recently some networks didn't even warn you so it was a fun guessing game Electrify America has finally begun indicating but I can attest to this not being entirely accurate. That's certainly the most common maintenance issue that I've experienced, There's a lot of equipment out there with power modules that are starting to fail, leading to reduced output, weird surging behavior, Cables will cut by vandals and the response can be far too slow. As mentioned before, latches on the connector can fail, And insulation breakdown can lead to failed This sort of wear-and-tear is to be expected, but apparently most charging providers just don't have the maintenance teams or infrastructure to actually take care of it in a timely fashion. Relatedly, there's the whole uptime thing. As I write this, two - no, wait, three stations around Chicago are entirely offline. That's not great! And plenty more locations have at least one charger that is dead. That's not a big deal when your site has 8 or more chargers, A single charger going down in one of those locations results in a 25% Now, in fairness to EA, they started their infrastructure rollout back when charging equipment manufacturers were just getting started themselves, so they have a whole bunch of legacy hardware and that makes their operations uniquely challenging. But that by no means is reason to give them a pass. Then we have the apps. Whether they refuse to keep you signed in or just flat out don't work, it's not a great feeling to be relying on a Jenga-tower of an IT stack Electrify America does at least include credit card readers on their fast chargers, but they didn't pick the most robust of units which was brave considering the chargers are largely just out in the elements. App-activation might be a necessary evil for banks of level 2 chargers, but given how monumentally expensive DC fast charging equipment is, in my opinion a robust credit card reader (or at the very least an actually-working NFC reader for contactless payments or Apple pay or whatever) is a must. And if you're thinking plug-and-charge is a great solution, And then we have the interoperability testing. Or lack of it. In part because the CCS protocol is a hodgepodge of weirdness, there are many opportunities for bugs to show up in the back-and-forth And for whatever reason, automakers have largely just left third-party charging providers to find those bugs all on their own. Which is very dumb. And bad! Everybody should be loaning their latest models before they even make it to customers. But apparently this rarely happens, and those charging providers have to find somebody with the latest cars and hope they'll be kind enough swing by for testing. So, great job, automakers, you did this to yourself! At least in part. I know I'm repeating myself here but the CCS connector itself Simply putting a NACS plug on the end of the same cable won't magically fix the charger on the other end The woes of CCS are almost entirely due to bad management on all sides that doesn't seem to understand the importance of providing That's what Tesla gets right, and Tesla does indeed deserve massive kudos for sidestepping this problem But that's the reason I'm cautioning automakers and, well, really everyone It will be nice to have a better connector, sure, but the connector is not what's wrong with the third-party charging industry, not by a long shot. Still, I welcome the switch My beef with the Tesla connector and their whole charging ecosystem was always that it was a proprietary connector which functioned -- intentionally or not, doesn't matter -- to lock-out any other vehicles from using their infrastructure. I also didn't exactly like the idea of the same company that sells you the car and was super concerned that a landscape of Tesla-only, I was honestly pretty disturbed by how few people seemed to realize and that's why I was totally cool with letting charging networks grow organically Regrettably, that just didn't happen fast or well enough. When we get right down to it, the CCS rollout was botched and way too slow. And since there really aren't that many CCS chargers in the wild yet, I mean, I was saying that about Tesla's connector back in 2018 because I figured But... it just didn't happen. I was wrong, and here we are. Now that the SAE is taking NACS on and Tesla combined with the fact that they're inviting well my beefs are gone. Mostly, anyway. [voiceover] when it comes to competition among third-party charging providers. To make up for that, here's some footage of puppies! I might have made it sound as though switching connector types However, that's definitely not what's happening. In the short term, but in the long-run, CCS networks have been so terrible precisely because The drivers they provide charging to so up 'til now CCS drivers just had to put up with They literally don't have a choice. But soon they will. Once CCS drivers can choose Tesla's network, every other charging provider will need to get their act together To be clear, I don't want them to die - and so long as they have half a brain somewhere in the C-suite, Making NACS a real standard, means a simple cable swap will allow Electrify America (at least most Tesla drivers... I won't get into the fiasco that is the Honestly, releasing their connector to the wild is without a doubt and I applaud them for following through on their stated goal But now, back to what I had already scripted. Let me tee up the next sentence. While the transition to NACS might be pretty seamless, there is still a pretty big wrinkle, though, and that's cars like mine. Hyundai and Kia decided to develop an 800V battery architecture It's an amazing battery pack, and (at least when I'm on the right charger) And while we now know that Tesla's literally none of Tesla's chargers in the US This will slowly be changing, though - V4 superchargers are able to output that voltage. However, as of now, none have been deployed in the US. Accordingly, companies that have invested in 800V architectures, aren't exactly in a rush to sign onto the NACS standard trips to a Tesla Supercharger will be either painfully slow Many 800V cars have some provision but it's usually only a trickle. Until Tesla actually rolls out 1000V capable charging sites in large numbers, having support for NACS charging just doesn't matter That is, of course, only in the immediate term. And there's been some interesting news! A new as-yet-unnamed joint venture was recently announced between BMW, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai/Kia, Mercedes-Benz and Stellantis which aims for a pretty ambitious charging network in the US. This network is going to support both CCS and NACS, And honestly, this is something that's important to touch on. The cable and plug are a small fraction of the expense in building a charging station. Adding support for both standards, and in fact, Electrify America has already announced their intention since it is literally just a cable swap. The newly-announced charging joint venture may wish to continue supporting CCS or perhaps because it's currently a requirement to obtain government funding Regardless, the reason for CCS support on this new network doesn't really matter, but since supporting both plug types on the I'm not quite ready to say the death knell of CCS has rung. But again, NACS is certainly a nicer charging experience, Once there truly is no downside to choosing to support NACS, The future, as ever, is TBD. And now, the final section where I get a little bit spicy. As if I successfully hid that before. So, Tesla definitely has the most reliable charging network right now, and for Tesla owners, it's a great experience. Tesla wrote the software on both sides of the equation, but also allows them to do stuff like use Like, for instance, paying for charging. You can put your credit or debit cards into your Tesla Wallet and then pick which one you want to use for the charging session Since that's all handled by the hardware in the car, the chargers themselves don't need any sort of user interface. They just have the plug, and when you stick it in your car, the charger knows which car it's plugged into, and then starts the charging session automatically. That is... neat, I guess. But, and this might very well be an unpopular opinion, I don't care about that! Like, at all. In fact, I'm kind of actively against that becoming the norm more generically known as plug-and-charge, is something every car and charging provider needs to support and embrace. And ya wanna know why I feel that way? Because, perhaps it escaped your notice, Call me a caveman if you will but I still carry around this thing and when I have to pay for things, I insert - or sometimes, sometimes I even just tap - those little rectangles Every time! A thing that seems to happen a lot in the electric car world, and specifically the Tesla world if I'm being honest, is the presumption that new and different always equals better. Meanwhile, outsiders are often more puzzled than they are enthused. To hopefully elucidate what I mean here, "Hey there, I see you like fueling at Shell. Are you tired of having to use your payment card at every fill-up? Well, simply make an account with us our pumps will automatically authorize payment and start filling!" ... do you think they'd be all that excited? Actually, ExxonMobile tried that back in the late '90s It was a fob thing you'd stick on your key ring, but since it only worked at certain gas stations it wasn't all that popular. Plus it ended up having some security vulnerabilities, And that's the key to my curmudgeonly take: does plug-and-charge actually solve any problems? To someone who is used to the Tesla ecosystem, Everybody agrees, including me, that plug-and-charge is miles better than the kludgy app experience we are often forced to deal with on other charging networks. And to lay my cards out on the line, I've used EVgo's Autocharge system (which is technically different in weedsy ways and, yeah, I'll agree it's pretty neat to experience just plugging the car in I get why you like that. But is that something I actually need? No! At most it saves maybe 10 seconds. At least, not if normal payments were actually an option that worked. Today's landscape, where Tesla's deep integration stands against third-party networks that often rely on annoying and broken apps presents us with an obviously a false choice. But for some reason, a lot of folks don't see it that way. For example, I've run across countless people both online and in person who strongly believe Tesla's approach of to the point of removing the user interface entirely, is the reason their network is so reliable. And thus, support for plug-and-charge is the way every other network has to go. I think this is a reasonable position in a vacuum, but consider, if you will, just how incredibly weird and bonkers Pretty much every public charging location, They rarely have canopies protecting the equipment from the elements. They're almost always unattended which makes them susceptible to vandalism. And even when they're co-located with another business, tending to the chargers is not something the employees of the Walmart Why is this important? Because I think we need to recognize that charging locations of today Tesla has done a good job of making charging reliable under such conditions. But in my opinion, those conditions are a result of the transitional period we are in In fact, I really hope it doesn't. You know what I really miss when taking road trips in my electric car? Those little buckets with windshield squeegees. I still have to swing by gas stations just to clean my windows! And sure, having a Walmart near the chargers is often quite handy, but it's usually a pretty long walk to the entrance to ensure shoppers don't take charging spots for normal parking spots. And boy do I wish I could plug my car in gas stations do almost as a rule. Canopies. It's like a roof over your head! And I also hope that drivers with disabilities will be able to expect just like gas stations have today. Oh, and pull-through charging might be handy. Tesla wouldn't be dealing with Cablegate if they thought that one through. While I know some EV drivers loathe the idea I am certain that that is going to happen eventually - at least along major highways. They'll probably look a little different, maybe they'll have lounges and restaurants rather than convenience stores (though what exactly is wrong with a convenience store I don't know), but people (including me) want a dedicated, a place where they're protected from the elements while they plug-in, a place where they can use the bathroom and grab a bite to eat, and a place where they can wash their dang windshields. If that sounds like a gas station but with chargers rather than pumps, that's because that's exactly what that is. Why do you think gas stations look like that? It's because they have amenities that drivers need and want on-site. I've said it before, and I'll say it again, truck stop chains like Love's, Pilot, and TravelCenters of America Luckily some of them are starting to take advantage of that. And funnily enough, gas stations have never needed Self-service pumps have robust payment card readers that rarely fail. And even if they do, the attendant on duty can attempt Heck, you can even go inside and talk to that attendant and pay for your gas... with cash! Remember that stuff? Sure, if you'd like to sign up for whatever loyalty program that's by all means an option, but it's not necessary. If every car charger out there just accepted payments like a gas pump does, this whole discussion wouldn't even be happening! And personally, I don't want to sign up for yet another service If you like the idea of plug-and-charge, cool. But I see it as a nice-to-have option, not a requirement. And I will actively avoid using charging networks Knowing that I'm repeating myself, a choice between chargers that support plug-and-charge If you're really that worried about charger reliability, then I suppose you can limit it to contactless payments on the dispenser and use, like, one of those little payment island like you often find in parking lots for other payment methods. Or, y'know, have an attendant. Like a gas station. If you're establishing a business which sells vehicle charging, don't make it weird, don't make people jump through hoops, just be a normal business, please. And I know there are costs to accepting card payments on-site, I just view that as a basic cost of doing business, I do not want to normalize that reality. Where I think plug-and-charge actually has more merit is for public AC charging. Solving the charging problem for those who can't charge at home has always been the biggest barrier to EV adoption, and I'm personally pretty worried that we're gonna view That is certainly an option, and there are a surprising number of people who are making that work, but... it's not a smart use of resources. If people aren't able to charge where they keep their cars, because that infrastructure is much cheaper and easier to deploy. The issue has always been one of how to pay for that infrastructure and charging. Landlords are never that excited to spend money so they're not exactly champing at the bit to install chargers. And that problem is even harder Personally, I wish power utilities would just step-in and I think plug-and-charge is a great fit there. A bank of on-street level 2 chargers could simply direct the cost of a vehicle's charge session And with smart electric meters, those chargers could tap into the electrical supply of existing buildings Governments and electric utilities, you are free to use this idea! In fact, please do. Of course there are other ways to make that scheme work - RFID tags on key fobs would be another way to start a charge session, and that might even be cheaper and easier to implement than plug-and-charge. I don't know. All I'm hoping to get across here is that I actually think plug-and-charge than it does DC fast charging locations along highways. I am all but certain DC fast charging locations and with the amenities and services they will likely provide they're gonna need to accept normal card payments anyway. But, that's the end of that rant. Again, if you like plug-and-charge, by all means have at it. I just don't want us careening to a place where that's the only way to start a charge. I'd rather just do it on my own, please. No signing up for anything extra. No fiddling with my car's infotainment screen Just normal payments. Figure it out! Literally every other industry has, and I do not buy your excuses. Uh, to summarize this video, it sure looks like NACS is the charging port of the future, It has always been a nicer plug, there's no reason not to use it here in North America. And nobody with a CCS-equipped car has reason to fear being left behind. Adapters will come one way or another. I really really, really hope we don't continue down please just accept normal payments! Even vending machines now take cards almost as a rule. And in general, things are looking up! We still have plenty of problems to sort with electric vehicles, but the plug wars look to be at an end. Speaking of ends, this is the end. OK I lied. One footnote I want to throw in and almost forgot about A feature that has so far never been implemented on a Tesla vehicle, despite how amazingly high-tech and ahead-of-the-curve is a way to conveniently get the energy stored in their battery packs For instance, my car offers vehicle-to-load, and this adapter will allow you to power anything that uses This is fantastic for emergencies, and I determined in a test that I could run my essentials for about a week from my car should I need to. We may never know why exactly Tesla hasn't bothered But at least they'll sell you a Powerwall. [pregnant pause so you can chew on that] Anyway, there is no technical reason Vehicle to Load or Vehicle to Grid Which is pretty much why I didn't talk about it, I have... mixed feelings on vehicle-to-grid, as I think it's pretty tricky when it comes to battery wear and tear, but I certainly think vehicle-to-load is a must-have feature. Whether that's AC power backfeeding through the charge port like my car does, or connecting an external inverter to the car's battery pack through the DC pins like Ford does with their Intelligent Backup Power system, the NACS port is certainly capable. It just has to actually be put into practice OK now this is the end.