Well, look where we are now. With our backs comets behind us, we face deep space. There's terribly far away. ... or is there? The empty space past Neptune isn't exactly come in two varieties: Those with orbital to orbit the Sun in the same plane as the have orbits tilted every which-way. This is something of a problem: Comets lose the course of millions of years these comets billion years after the solar system's birth, So, where are they coming from? To see, we'll have to turn the clock back Behold, our forming solar system. Coalescing Sun, the inner planets were warmer, smaller, a region that was colder, and grew huge. Out water came in the form of ice mixed in with and stick together, growing bigger. Some grew But there was a problem: those outer planets. ice getting too close would either fall into into a different orbit. It could then plunge in toward Trillions upon trillions of such iceballs they were small compared to the planets, they so every time the planet pulled hard on them, too. It wasn't much per chunk, but after model of what happened, called the Nice model says that the overall effect of all these slowly moved outward from the Sun, while Jupiter Neptune would have had the biggest effect biggest volume of space where they lived. with these chunks of ice flung lots of them with respect to the planets. Repeated more the sizes of the orbits of the iceballs, too. We think that this shuffling around of the Bombardment, the intense shower of objects system, scarring planets and moons, a few formed. It's not known for sure, but all In the end, today, there are three rather distinct shaped like a puffy disk or a doughnut, aligned there have stable orbits, unaffected by Neptune. the Dutch astronomer Gerard Kuiper, one of of this region. The Kuiper Belt starts more from about 4.5 to 7.5 billion kilometers from The second region is called the scattered by Neptune into those weird, highly tilted inner edge, and extends out to perhaps 150 25 times farther out than Neptune. Finally, outside those two zones there's roughly 300 billion kilometers out-- 70 times times the distance of the Earth from the Sun. way farther out than that, perhaps as much is called the Oort Cloud, after astronomer The Oort Cloud is the origin of long period with no preferred orientation, they come in directions in the sky. Many newly discovered can be extremely long; they start their fall at nearly escape velocity, and their orbits The scattered disk is the source of short by Neptune, which can alter their orbits to Sun on paths between Jupiter and Neptune, encounter with Jupiter. This can send them in closer Tadaaa! That's how comets are made. So how do we know all this? Well, until 1930 an American astronomer, Clyde Tombaugh, discovered Pluto orbits the Sun on an elliptical, mildly-tilted to the Sun than Neptune! So how come it never Pluto's orbit crosses Neptune's... more never actually physically cross. When Pluto well above the plane of the solar system, Not only that, but Pluto orbits the Sun twice of this, whenever Pluto is closest to the That's many billions of kilometers distant, This is mostly coincidence. We've seen how and by gravity. But in this case it's due years ago, there were probably a lot of objects out by But the ones that got too close to Neptune orbits, turning them into comets or flinging could survive just happened to have orbits keeping them far from Neptune's influence. we see with orbits near Neptune. We call these objects plutinos. They're still Kuiper Belt objects, but a fun and interesting Once Pluto was found, astronomers wondered past Neptune. However, it took more than six discovered in 1992, and that opened a sort now know of more than a thousand Kuiper Belt Pluto's size and is more massive -- it's Pluto is an interesting object. A moon was about 1/8th the mass of Pluto itself! While that it can be said that Pluto noticeably around their mutual center of mass, located Four more moons were discovered in Hubble be more. Pluto is so small and distant that we don't [sighs] And now I have to admit to being in a tough a space probe called New Horizons is heading in July 2015. There's no doubt our view discovered, we'll see surface features for I can't tell you about any of that because to do is leave little Pluto alone for now. But there is a point I want to bring up. Pluto Belt Object, because it's much brighter was thought to be about the size of Earth. it to be far smaller than first thought; in surface is unusually reflective, shiny, making Kuiper Belt denizens are far less reflective, If Pluto is King of the Kuiper Belt Objects, Kuiper Belt may have 100,000 objects in it a lot, get this: The Oort Cloud, surrounding bodies in it. Trillions! While we know of lots of Kuiper Belt Objects, for sure. Two very interesting bodies have takes it an incredible 140 billion km from far out. Both are on very elliptical orbits. it's not at all clear how they got where were disturbed by passing stars long ago, dropping Speaking of which... we can calculate how over from the formation of the solar system, how many there are using long period comet billion. That's a big discrepancy! Now get that the Sun has stolen comets from other stars do, and sometimes the Sun passes near gracing our skies, could we be seeing an object There is another explanation, but it's highly in the solar system, well beyond Neptune. It's possible. Some very preliminary studies coming in randomly, but instead have their a very distant planet perturbed them. There are a NASA's WISE observatory scanned the skies as big as Jupiter or Saturn out to tremendous have to be smaller. And very distant, probably seen other stars with planets this far out, But is there one really there? We can't This region of the solar system is seriously reach, and above all else extremely huge and out there, and it would be pretty hard to The point? There's still lots of solar system toes into these dark, frigid waters. Today you learned that past Neptune are vast if they get poked into the inner solar system. the plane of the solar system; the scattered short period comets; and the Oort Cloud which is the source of long-period comets. These Sun, and got flung out to the solar system's suburbs Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association their channel because they have even more me, Phil Plait. The script was edited by Blake Thaller. It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, the the sound designer is Michael Aranda,