Snakes are one of the most feared classes and a vast array of uniquely lethal abilities. However, some of these strategies have clearly we'll be going over the snake tier list But before we get into looking at specific basic attributes and special abilities the quick rundown of the history of the snake So, snakes are one of the newer factions in the later part of the mesozoic expansion. They began as a niche offshoot of the lizard gameplay, and in order to best minmax for eventually opted to completely drop the "legs" This ended up being a far more successful as it not only granted these lizards better bunch of other strategies to them. While the snake build first hit the scene they didn't become a huge threat in the were banned in the K-T balance patch. During this chaotic post-banwave meta, snake including the giant Titanoboa build. But while Titanoboa's giant size granted the snake playerbase went on to specialize Fast forward to today's meta and snakes in the game, owing this success to a handful The most obvious of these is slithering, the in exchange for losing its legs. At first glance this might seem extremely more slowly than they would if they could And while those are significant limitations, of other options to snake mains. Rather than jumping over barriers, snakes them. This gives snakes access to a lot of areas to access, and means things like dens, nests, less effective at keeping snake players out, spawnkilling. Slithering also allows a comparatively large benefit from the stealth bonus of even the Despite not having claws, snakes make for difficult to ever get truly out of reach of Still, as a rushdown option, slithering tends So while snakes may not have the ability to kit to ensure that nowhere is ever safe from be poised to capitalize on that. A snake's basic strike is a little on the Their bites can't deal that much damage It's for this reason that snakes tend to their bites with. Snake venom can have a variety of status effects, through the tier list, but in general, venom can deal with its bite. Without this, many snakes would have no means when caught out in the open. Instead, snakes are one of the most feared But which snakes should be feared the most? Which snakes are truly top tier? For that, let's get into the tier list. So, the lower tiers on this list contain members This is the largest group of snakes and it except for the ones you're actually afraid Starting at the very bottom of this group snake builds of all time. Data miners are actually unsure whether or it's some of the weakest venom in the game, garter snake essentially only has favorable like frogs and mice. Because they're so vulnerable, garter snake tadpoles and small fish, but they have no playstyle nor is it a particularly good swimmer, they venture into the water. Garter snakes are also caught in an endless evolving extreme toxin resistance to the poison This isn't very efficient but I guess the matchups. Next in F-tier we have the racer snake. This is a snake build that put an above average making it one of the fastest snake builds That's not really saying a lot given that but credit where credit is due, this does into cover when under attack. Unfortunately as with a lot of mobility-centric them competitively viable. In fact even with their above average slithering chase down many of their preferred attack They're also worse climbers than most snakes, be countered by simply climbing out of reach. In almost all cases, a snake's worst matchup for the racer snake speed usually isn't Their lack of practical applications for their F tier for me. Next on the tier list we have the vine snake. Now, there are many highly effective arboreal vine snake isn't terrible. It's got great stealth and is an excellent But I mean just look at this thing. With the lowest HP and defense stats of any attack. Vine snakes entrust their survival to their and the vine snake is discovered, they resort Their intimidation tactic consists of sticking Much like with the blue tongued skink, I don't defensive display, especially when this warning the snake faction. Definitely not F tier due to its decent camouflage, stuck in D-tier. Next in D tier we have the tiger keelback. This snake build breaks the mold when it comes dumping all of its evolution points into venom, into becoming poisonous, meaning that they dealing damage and when taking damage. This extra defensive ability definitely raises colubrid snakes, however overall it's still Both their venom and their poison aren't going all in on one might have been the better Still, the keelback's strategy does mitigate though, which is that they have a hard time Many colubrids, including the vine snake and This is useful, cuz I mean how else would deal any damage right? The problem is, colubrids lack the efficient dangerous snake builds. Their fangs are located at the back of the venom. The venom is kinda just part of their saliva to really chew on their target for a good As you might expect, this makes individual harmless as they don't contain much venom fangs unless they really get a solid bite So the keelback's poison does sort of cover that it gets to the top of D-tier. However a defensive poison is by no means having rear fangs, as we'll see as we move At the bottom of C tier we have the Boomslang, faction. This snake kinda just does everything the climber and has great camouflage, but also venom for its tier in terms of potency. And while it does have rear fangs, they're But its best adaptation is that the boomslang allowing it to deliver a venom-infused bite fangs. This allows the boomslang to go toe to toe as well as let it use its potent venom as a hunting tool. Now, obviously this is still far from ideal. Its venom is quite slow acting, making it In my opinion the boomslang is a perfect example more buffs to be a high tier build, but in get there. At the top of C tier we have our last member The kingsnake is a large snake build with Instead, this is the first constrictor build Constriction is a type of grappling attack guaranteed KO, even on extremely large targets. Its main drawback is that this attack strategy A constrictor player has to be able to survive to restrain it. So with that said you'd think it'd be a venomous snake, right? Snakes are so flexible that it's very difficult opportunity to bite back. That's where the kingsnake's second ability, The ability to ignore all damage from snake other snakes horribly one-sided. Just for good measure, kingsnakes have high tend to go for the head, which negates a snake's This is about where the kingsnake's supremacy pretty standard for a snake, and with no venom to players it can't reliably immobilize Luckily there's a pretty simple change a the effectiveness of its constriction: size. Boas and pythons are the poster children for builds that can be properly classified as While technically these are two different similar and both contain specific examples Although boas and pythons have no venom, their make them more than a match for just about With their thick scales and huge size, it's 1v1 quickly. Their ability to tank a lot of hits during builds like the tiger are in for quite an fight. Well-statted builds with high defense and overcome with brute strength once a boa or coils to trap them in an infinite grab-combo. Drawbacks to the constriction strategy are immense energy cost of failed kills--while challenge other large builds, going after amount of HP compared to other snakes. As large builds are often more conspicuous, make good use of the camouflage ability. Out of the boa faction, the most powerful These are among the heaviest of any snake that renders most physical attacks almost While anacondas lose a significant amount reduced speed in terrestrial maps, their mobility, areas make them nearly unbeatable in this Anacondas are capable of serious speed when limitations of enormous size, making nearly an easy target. Their eyes and noses are oriented towards minimal energy while camouflaged in aquatic carry out an ambush attack. Despite their formidable base stats and proficiency fact that anacondas are only truly viable and places them squarely in B tier. The most competitive build in the python faction While many snake builds are competitively specialized abilities, Burmese pythons fit and have sufficient mobility in aquatic, terrestrial, size. Burmese pythons are therefore excellent generalist they have been causing serious disruption in. Burmese pythons have totally destabilized to the python's extremely one-sided matchup of the types of builds that normally keep Now, thankfully the current top tier of the repelling a python in single combat, but because to the aquatic zones, pythons essentially which has led to a drastic reduction in players fox, and bobcat. While Burmese pythons come in at the top of speed stat and lack of venom make higher-tier styles. While some snakes in lower tiers can use the for snake builds rides almost exclusively points into maximizing venom efficiency and Members of the viper class dominate the A game, vipers have a variety of special offensive their generally low defense stats. Their long, hollow fangs are placed at the armor to deliver lethal doses of venom, but used by most builds in this group is that players. Most viper builds also spec into the infrared powerful ambush attackers and compensating Some members of the viper faction tack on and luring abilities, but these perks are Coming in at the bottom of A tier are Gaboon of any venomous build with near-unbeatable Despite their bulky appearance, Gaboon vipers and are notorious for destroying unsuspecting despite their relatively underpowered toxicity With the longest fangs of any viper, they in addition to any toxic effects caused by They conserve energy by remaining motionless into unnecessary confrontation, often choosing venom resources on opponents that won't While Gaboon vipers are an excellent choice lack of versatility and low aggression means builds. Cottonmouths rank slightly higher in A tier set of the viper class effectively in the As the only viper build in the game with aquatic fangs make them incredibly effective at farming This build specs into the caudal luring ability become competitive and shed this ability at Cottonmouths are also relatively tanky and tactics, allowing them to conserve venom for Their dominance in aquatic maps makes them generalist builds, but this is limited by majority of gameplay. Rounding out the A tier is the rattlesnake. Best suited for desert and forest biomes, special abilities with well-allocated base Rattlesnakes are highly capable builds for to create thermal maps of other players in one of the most effective counters for mammal Instead of risking health by grappling with amount of venom in one quick strike and then after they've succumbed to toxic status However, this strategy is not always effective resources that take a while to resupply. One major advantage for rattlesnake players technique, which allows them to scare off venom or risking serious damage. While rattlesnakes sit at the top of A tier among members of the viper class, all viper and tend to lose out to opponents with quicker-acting tank their attacks. Snake builds placing in S tier overcome the out mobility stats and employing a variety The most competitively viable snakes spec the ability to inflict toxic damage and status venom users. While these buffs come at the cost of base rare few players with venom resistance or With some snakes in the top tier even having dominate their respective maps and can square the animal kingdom. Coming up first in S-tier is the cobra build. With impressive base speed, these snakes can having to solely rely on an ambush strategy. Variants of the cobra build can spec into allowing for particularly well-rounded play. Their fast-acting venom is mostly neurotoxic through flesh and maximize the amount of pain Even elephant players, the tankiest terrestrial by the ridiculous amount of sheer toxic damage While all cobra builds have forward-placed cobra players can use the only ranged attack up to 2 meters through holes at the front This move has high accuracy and can permanently Cobra builds advertise their power by using vast majority of players away from trying With enough offensive capabilities to take no question that cobras are one of the most Next in S-tier are sea snakes. With full aquatic adaptations and special access hard-to-reach areas to demolish even Their fangs are relatively small compared works in conjunction with a special attack Their venom is some of the deadliest in the other players may not even know they've While they're effective at using trickster sea snake players can also hunt in teams to compensate for their low individual HP. This build does have a bit of a high skill-floor at playing around the sea snake's defensive The sea snake build has a unique playstyle to 1v1 eels and win, this build sits at the The final build on the list is the black mamba. With incredibly overpowered base stats for speed, the black mamba is by far the most arboreal combat situations. Their speed isn't just with respect to movement--the extremely quickly and can decimate enemies in each bite. Black mamba venom imposes a variety of neurological and vision loss, making them one of the most Mamba builds have an extremely aggressive room for counterplay, especially considering the highest of any venom users due to their While they don't have any unique moves to common among snake players, and do so to an Topping the charts with the highest DPS potential to boot, the black mamba is the undisputed Snakes are by no means meta defining, but up against eachother and what their main strengths There's a lot more to snakes than just their How do snakes deal with cold damage? How can snakes climb trees so easily without If you're really interested in knowing all recommend checking out this video's sponsor, They have this excellent documentary called a lot of questions I didn't even know I It goes into way more depth than I have time And hey, speaking of videos that don't fit I have a Nebula series called Let's Play It's my take on letsplay style content. I just released a new episode featuring the episodes featuring a few dinosaurs as well Curiositystream is normally twenty bucks a viewers. Twenty six percent off the annual membership, meaning you can get access to thousands of of awesome original videos from dozens of realengineering, and lessons from the screenplay. Oh also me! All for only fourteen seventynine a year. So don't miss out on the best deal in streaming, to curiosity stream dot com slash tierzoo Thank you so much for watching, big thanks sorry it took so long, I promise future videos Anyways thanks again, and until next time,