Moderator: So I'm really, really, really excited he's my personal coach and, in fact, he coaches His name is Doc Barham. And because I am...okay, so because Doc has to bring him here and introduce him to you. Now Doc is a transformative coach with a raw, He's been doing this for 15 years. Has a global reputation as a cutting edge most exceptional individuals and organizations. He's a certified Master Coach, clinical hypnotherapist, clinician, reiki master, and qi gong practitioner. What it doesn't say on the bio is that he's Doc has read about 40,000 books. He digests this information. And then I mean, I can ask doc a question book or a technique and show me how to do Yesterday I asked him, &quot;How do I get rid of And within 10 seconds he was recommending I could try. Again, one of the smartest people I know. His list of clientele include Fortune 500 celebrities, people from the Oprah Winfrey many more. Every time I walk into Doc's office in...close incredible people walking out from like NBA them all. And today, he's going to give you the Doc So give a big massive round of applause to Doc: Give a nice round of applause for Vishen Awesomeness Fest together. Keep your hands going. Have a seat but keep your hands going for two days. How are you guys doing? Yeah, was your break nice? Did you have a good break? Are you guys ready to have some fun? Together: Yes. Doc: Are you sure? Together: Yes. Doc: Okay, six of you. Are you guys ready to have a little bit of Together: Yes. Doc: Sweet, okay. I want to move really fast because I really passionate about, which is communication. So, I want to ask you guys for a moment to you? How do you define success? So it's an individual thing, obviously. But I think what you'll find and this is what years, that we all tend to define success Most of us want to do something that we love like something that's purposeful to us, where larger. Would you guys tend to agree with that? Most of us want to get paid well, so that Most of us want to have deep meaningful relationships, right? So these are the kinds of things that I notice success. Now, here's my question. Would you agree that the quality of your business is in large part due to the quality of your How many people would agree with that? Raise your hand. Yeah. Now, how many of you people would agree that part due to the quality of your communication? Okay, now, here's something I find really How many of you guys, of the things that you you ever heard the, &quot;What got you here won't How many of you guys really like to learn? Like really like to learn? Okay, me too. I love to learn because then I suck less. It's really true, isn't it? I love learning because then I suck less when...whatever I used to hate selling and then one day I &quot;Man, I wonder if I hate selling because I I had like the most ridiculous insight, &quot;Duh.&quot;... And then I was like, &quot;I wonder if I got really Well, the same thing is true for communication. I want to ask you guys if you define success, success, what I want to ask you is this, how in communication in school? Interesting, is it? So I work with people from all over the world What I notice is that people in conversation breaking rapport all the time in the most And it can be happening every 5, 10, 15 seconds, How many of you guys have had a conversation another person and there's this moment where I'm going to explain why some of that is. So just to give you an example because I believe should actually be able to show or demonstrate So about seven years ago, I had a very, very And then I got sick and I lost everything. And it was really awful because when I lost I lost my health. I lost my sanity. I had a complete and total physical, mental Nobody could figure it out what was going I spent tens of thousands of dollars trying I lost my business, I lost my home, I lost I literally had to be placed on board of a to stay in the bedroom, my sister's old bedroom And I spent a half a year convalescing. And I sat in the chair crying for half a year and out. All of my organs, all of my muscles, everything I used to play a game called Make It through That's how close I was to sort of offing myself. I just couldn't take it. It was so much pain, it was so excruciating. And it was so hard because I didn't have an So long story short, I don't say that to impress I do want to tell you is that eventually they I had a problem going on in the central nervous I healed it. I grabbed a $98 plane ticket and a suitcase crying, you know, &quot;You're going to leave and Like because I was. I was like, you know, like in your neighborhood kind of blew himself up somehow. Like you're walking down the street and he's I was that guy. I remember sitting up there going, &quot;I'm the So I grabbed the $98 plane ticket and I kissed I flew back to Los Angeles and here's the Using the skills of communication that I have in the last 15 years and 20,000 hours of one-on-one business that took me almost 10 years before, That is the power of communication. Because let's face it, no man is an island the 21st century with Internet technology, and maintaining relationships is more challenging How many of you guys have gotten a text message joking? Nobody? Just me? Nobody ever got a text message, they+re like, Why? And they left off what? An emoticon? I want you to think about that from a communication Text, the language you use is only a portion Vocal tonality tells you everything about the emotion. That's why they put emoticons on there because Does that make sense? Let me give me one simple example. How many of you guys say &quot;but&quot;? Try cutting that word from your vocabulary. So, I can't read your card. What's your name? Eduardo: Eduardo. Eduardo? Eduardo, I want you to say, &quot;The sky is blue.&quot; Eduardo: The sky is blue. Doc: &quot;But there's some white clouds.&quot; Eduardo: But there's some white clouds. Doc: Okay, now, say it again and I'm going I just want you to stop and tell me how that Eduardo: The sky is blue. Doc: Yeah, but there's some white clouds. Doc: How's that feel? Eduardo: Wow. [inaudible 00:10:26] Doc: Yeah, it kind of feels like, &quot;Hey, fuck Now watch this. Say the sky is blue again. Eduardo: The sky is blue. Doc: Yeah, and there's some white clouds too. Eduardo: Wow, yeah. Doc: Now multiply that but times how many Every time you do that, did you feel that You did. It's a visceral experience. You feel the disconnection in your body. Now what I want to do is I want to explain We actually...the sum of the latest scientific have more than one brain? Together: Yeah. Doc: That's right. So do you guys know about what's called the So Paul MacLean was a really famous scientist And he did a bunch of research in the human He talks about the triune brain meaning three. Now the outermost portion of your brain, what that's the thing that you see in all the zombie grey shower cap park. They're all going like... Okay, that's the neocortex. That's the latest edition in evolution. Underneath that, think about it this way, This is the limbic system. That's your monkey brain. So, tonight, when everybody gets really loaded turn off your neocortex because the alcohol and then you start leading with your monkey Hey, you want to fuck? I'm fucking hungry, dude. I'm going to crash...&quot; That's why, when you drink the booze, you up the monkey brain. That's the center of all of your emotions. Underneath that, you have what's called the That's your lizard. It's called the R-complex. So remember neocortex, limbic system, R-complex, This is what controls things like territorial Now what's really interesting is that they connected to. The outer brain, the neocortex or the cephallic The limbic system is connected to another That's right, your heart. Did you guys know I work as a trainer for And did you guys know that if you take off he can't differentiate between that and brain That's because it's so full of neurons. This is more than a pump. It's an organ of knowing. It's a center of perception. See, it's so funny that science is finally known for so many years based on our own experience. I knew it in my heart. Trust your heart. These phrases come from somewhere. They're based on body-based experiences. Like with you when I just said, &quot;no, but, All human experience is embodied. Communication is embodied. And what I'm trying to get to is this. Most of us spend all of our time in communication floating around using this part as a garbage You have another center right here. It's called your gut brain or your belly brain. In Western medicine, they call it the enteric So if I told everybody here to stand up and below your belly button, you'll find there's You flex your abdominal muscles. You're doing six pack abs. And then you stick your finger through the the abdominal wall and you'll feel like a golf ball. And that's the seat, the center of a bunch or the belly brain. There's a great book called &quot;The Second Brain.&quot; I highly recommend that you check it out. How many of you guys have ever known it in How many of you've known what was in your And your head went, &quot;What?&quot; It's the right thing to do, man.&quot; So your gut is going, &quot;Uh-uh.&quot; And your head is going, &quot;Yeah, do that.&quot; Okay, we really do have three brains and in well integrated. These three centers of knowing. It's very simple. This brain thinks in thoughts, this brain This brain thinks in body sensations. All of them are forms of knowing and all of Does that make sense? Now, here's what's really fascinating. Is Lee here? Lee Holden, is he here? Lee, you can attest to the fact that in the what? Three primary centers. Correct? Lee: Yes. Doc: That's right. They call them the what? Lee: The three treasures. Doc: That's right, the three treasures, the They are very real. And the beautiful part, most people are walking you know, some crappy old car, their body ford when they're actually, you're driving Your body is unbelievable what it's capable So here's what I'm trying to get to in your Most people's communication is all up here, or attention to the cues that are going on with a friend, a lover, a business person, be using more if you wish to be more successful sales, in anything like that. It's absolutely critical. I work with people in the Hollywood industry turn out to be multimillion dollar deals. And when they apply these kinds of topics, So here's what I want you to do. Are you guys with me? Together: Yes. Doc: And I can't tell right now if you guys guys are like, &quot;Holy cow.&quot; Here's what I want you to do. I want you to consider that you are a multi-dimensional And I don't mean that figuratively, I mean You have these three brains for thinking, They are in the head, the heart, and the belly. They are known as the neocortex, the limbic And the three qualities that they refer to, and being or beingness. Have you ever been with somebody who's like ladies? What happens, ladies, when a man is here? Can you feel it? Look at all the women. &quot;Yes.&quot; What happens, ladies? Woman: We like them. Doc: That's right. How do you feel with them? Safe. And when you can't feel him here? &quot;Asshole.&quot; Look at all the guys, &quot;I gotta get in my heart, Isn't that right? You can feel if someone is here. I want you to trust yourself. Why? Because you need to start trusting yourself of all communication, in the neurolinguistic It's trust. When someone can't feel you here, there is Now, how many of you knew that your heart Pretty cool, huh? Yeah. How many of you knew that it was 5,000 times generates? Now, guess what the wave form of the electromagnetic you're really angry or upset or afraid or Okay? Now, how many of you guys ever walked into they're not saying a word to each other, you're Okay.&quot; Why? Because the tension is so thick you could... Together: Cut it. Doc: That's right. Where do you think that comes from? A felt experience, isn't it? You can feel it. It's embodied. It's a communication. Pay attention to it. How much in your conversations are you not that you're doing unconsciously? You may be saying one thing here, but maybe totally different thing here. You need to get Larry, Moe and Curly on the So when someone has a tremendous presence, upper dantian, and their head center. What do we say? &quot;Oh, he's brilliant.&quot; See, we know it. It's because this is very lit up. When someone is here...how many people could That's a living fact. Your direct embodied experience demonstrates, Did you know that that field when a human field is measured as far as 15 feet in diameter? Guess what the waveform looks like? Anybody had a grandma they used to sit with a warm fire when you used to sit with your That's because they're sitting in a space And the electromagnetic field that their body electromagnetic field and consequently your So it's really cool. We can talk about love and the power of love. But as westerners, we have this real left And I find that these are very powerful ways what we already know. Does that make sense? Now what happens when the electromagnetic you get upset? It implodes down upon itself. So this center here, the lower dantian, the okay? In spirituality, this is the center of consciousness. This is the center of your soul. And this is your being because you are literally Don't believe me? Check it out for yourself. It's your Batmobile. Now imagine the quality of your communication, to awaken the centers to become conscious What you find in meditation, in deep meditation about also relate to three literal dimensions. Spiritual scripture talks about the dimension This is the dimension of the divine. Your soul rests with creator known as the beloved in the divine, the dimension of the And the dimension of the absolute is accessed the dimension of your being or beingness. Now, think about this, what's the difference This is about your purpose. This is about your passion. This is about your power. Does that make sense? Why? Because it's about the three V's. Your purpose comes from your vision. Your passion literally is guided by your values. And your power comes from your vitality or So what I want you to consider, you can have to practice while you're here. And if I'm here, come up to me and ask me the hell you were talking about. Could you explain it to me?&quot; Or say, &quot;Hey, that was totally awesome. What about this?&quot; Whatever. I absolutely love this stuff. Why? Because I used to suck at communication. For real. I literally have become an award-winning speaker And when I was a little boy I used to talk I had to go through years of bio-functional Anything you want to be good at in life, it's Just learn and practice. Okay, let me give you one example. This is a very, very simple thing you can If you want to connect in the presence center, It's a little bit difficult with the distance back and forth like this? Okay, usually we're only a few feet away from And how does this make you feel when someone What do they call them? Shifty-eyed. &quot;Hey, I want to open up my wallet and give to shifty eyed. I can't wait to do a risky multimillion dollar Okay, I used to work as both a professional America's fastest stage hypnotist. Now one of the things about hypnosis is that And you can mesmerize people in your conversation, You can entrance them, and it's incredibly You can start with looking into one of their Right eye to right eye. Who would be interested in perhaps coming There we go. I love the arms that shoot... I love that. Come on up. Give her a nice round of applause, guys. Cindy? Great. Okay. Now, I'm going to get at a little bit of an But Cindy, what I want you to do is this. I want you to tell me how you feel. I'm just going to look at you, okay? So when I am...thank you. No, I think she's old enough to hold it now. I'm such a dick. I'm such a jerk. Guy is just trying to help. Okay, all I want you to do is...okay, see And how does that make you feel? Cindy: Nervous. Doc: Yeah, did you hear that? What did she say? Together: Nervous. Me, I made her feel nervous. How many of you guys perhaps do this unconsciously a big crackhead in front of you? Huh? And then you walk away going, &quot;That guy.&quot; This is what I'm saying. In NLP one of the presuppositions is the quality get. How many of you take responsibility for your How many of you go, &quot;That guy...&quot; and blame As a hypnotist, the number one thing that One of the...trust is not an airy-fairy thing. It's not like, &quot;Oh, trust.&quot; This is what...here's the thing, I really New Age stuff that isn't grounded in reality that we're driving is how we know everything. And the more you get in it, the more you can jets and the flame throwers and the...all Watch. Now, if I look at you with my right eye to right eye and I soften my gaze and what do Cindy: I feel more comfortable. Doc: And what else do you notice about like Cindy: Gazing into your soul. Doc: How does it feel? Feel safer. Cindy: Calmer. Doc: Yeah, calmer? Do you feel more like you can...I'm open to Cindy: Mm-hmm. Doc: Do you feel more like you're like being Cindy: Yes. Doc: Right. And how does that feel? So if you noticed...did anybody of you see I said, &quot;Do you feel more like you're being And she went, &quot;Yes.&quot; Every human being, what they want is to just What I find is, I love doing business but to do business that we forget that there's And if you do business with another soul, than if you're just doing it with somebody So, now, how do you think you might be able simple, just like Looking in their eyes and Just in your life in general. Cindy: Just maybe listening better to other saying and not being distracted by what's Doc: Yeah, that's a really big one. Cool. So would you be willing to do that with more Would you be willing to practice? Cindy: Yeah. Doc: Who would be willing to practice with Thank you. Give her a round of applause. Here's what we're going to do. Turn to the person next to you. What I want you to do is I want you to be So pick a partner, ones and twos. It's really simple. The first time, I want you to look at each I want you to both report to each other how looking at you like that. That's so that you can then do it the second So what do you do? You look into one eye. You use a soft gaze. Relax your eyelids and blink less. Go ahead and have fun with that. [00:32:18] [00:32:45] Doc: Ah, great. Getting a little sweaty? Yeah. [00:32:49] [00:33:15] Doc: Can i get this here? There's probably going to be some other people Do you want me to just leave it there? Yeah. Okay. Can I do that? Thanks. See if you can really soften that gaze. Feel what happens to your thoughts and your Okay, great. If you guys can wrap up now. Say thank you to your partner and turn back Who liked that? How many of you think that goes well with Who'd like to share what they experienced, Anybody? Yes. Yeah. Man: Well, me and Doug were saying that immediately was actually even harder to do the awkwardness. We were saying that I guess in this case it And we had many chats before that to the point talking. And him I noticed that he was actually making He was really comfortable being just that, Doc: Good, good. Let me ask you a question really quickly, How many of you noticed a kind of palpable was either, that was not there when your eyes when it was there? Uh-huh. So I want you to consider that what's actually a phenomena that goes throughout all of the So if I yawn, what do you do? Okay. You ever sitting in a restaurant somewhere like, &quot;Yeah, and that's when we went to the there's music playing over the PA system,&quot; Why is that? Because there's a beat and your nervous system It's a kind of tacit learning. How many of you guys have ever, say, like in a store, and you're like texting, and then doo doo, doo, doo, doo, doo...&quot; And it's over the PA system, right? So there's all kinds of communication that's all the time. That's what we're pointing to. And I want you to pay attention to the feeling, feeling and this is sensing, right? This is one of the most powerful ways that attention. How many of you guys noticed that you got was looking at you with the unblinking gaze do the stalker stare like the...right. Particularly guys. It's like you're pinning them to the wall. Soft. How many of you when you saw and felt the &quot;Yeah, I feel heard.&quot; How many of you noticed that when you were to left eye, whichever, same eye, did you down? Because listening is unbelievably important. So don't get upset ladies. But one of the things that I learned very and watch people on a first date. Because you watch the guy and the guy he always hole. He's like, &quot;And then I did this, and then You know, enough about me. What do you think of me?&quot; And she's like in her head going, &quot;Oh, my I have to pee. I am so out of here. What are you doing? No, this guy, no. I'm totally out of here.&quot; Want to get the ladies, guys? Here's what you do. Let the cut under your nose heal. Shut your freaking pie hole. Listen. Here's what listening isn't. Listening is not this. &quot;Man, I got to remember this thought because And when that person shuts up, I'm going to What, you guys don't know what I'm talking You could see it in a person's eyes. People, you can see it in their eyes when You're like, &quot;Hello.&quot; Guys, if you will listen, here's what will You'll go, &quot;Uh-huh, uh-huh, yeah. Uh-huh.&quot; Now, you got to be real. You know, you can't be a cheasel. But then she'll go, &quot;Bla, bla, bla, bla, bla, &quot;Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.&quot; &quot;Bla, bla, bla...&quot; &quot;Oh, yeah, yeah.&quot; &quot;Bla, bla, bla... Here's the most interesting person.&quot; Magic. All the guys are now like, &quot;Dude, I get to Guys are lazy. So what I'm saying is there's so much going eye to right eye. Here's what I want you to do. I want you to look at this really close, close quickly. Can you guys queue that up? Is that okay? Thank you. And this is about a minute long that's about by the heart. And what I'd like you to do while you're here on feeling the presence of another person, heart center. Man: &quot;Over the past 18 years, our research How the heart and the brain communicate with and our perceptions. One of the things we identified in our research And what we found was that when we're feeling the sunset, or really feeling love or compassion out a very different message. The heart generates by far the largest rhythmic And what we've now found is that if we look created by the heart, that emotional information fields. So by learning to shift our emotions, that's the magnetic fields radiated by the heart. And that can impact those around us. We are fundamentally and deeply interconnected And what we do individually really does count Doc: Pretty cool, huh? So we want to have a felt experience of that, So here's what I want you to do. You guys want to have a felt experience? You want to feel your own energy, your own Okay? Put your hands out in front of you like this. Okay, now pull your hands apart...actually, Stick your teeth out in front like you're No, just kidding. Okay, now pull your hands part. Now relax your hands. Switch off your left brain. Stop thinking. Put your awareness, just put your attention Just feel. Don't think about feeling. Just feel. And now, very gently, pull your hands apart And you feel that buzzy, tingling sensation Yes, that's really happening. It's not a suggestion. Now, for some of you, if you roll your hands palms, you'll feel magnets. Like a magnetic pushing. Feel that? That's right. That's because your body has a polarity, like And here, you have what are called chakras Your whole body is this multidimensional being And this is in you and all around you. And when you go see someone like a quiong battery. And this is what you can give to other people. But you want to learn how to do it without Does this make sense? Okay, for those of you who haven't felt it to think about someone that you really love. And as you really see that person in your feel when you're with them. You hear the sound of their voice. And how that makes you feel. What do you notice happening in that space Like some people got their hands like this You feel it getting bigger, warmer, right? Now, think about someone you really dislike. Come on. Think about that person you really don't like. Really feel how they make you feel. See in your mind's eye and hear the sound What's happening between your hands? Yeah, just feels like it just dropped out More like a vacuum, it just went... Okay. If you can feel it between your hands, I guarantee it too. You can feel it between your hands I guarantee too. So what I want you to do is this, put your And I just want you to feel, do not think, For whatever you feel but don't put your awareness Put it out in front between your palm and And I just want you to feel here. And how many of you feel kind of like a warmth Right. Now put your awareness here. Put your hand here. Don't try so hard. Here's why, because it's already there. So you only...it would be like going...&quot;I &quot;If I look away it'll disappear,&quot; okay? It's effortless. Because it's already there. You don't have to make anything. I'm simply asking you to tune in to what already How many of you feel this? It's a pretty heartfelt bunch. So it wouldn't surprise me. You guys feel it? Okay, now watch. What I'd like you to do is bring your awareness happens here. Just get out of your heart. I know a lot of the ladies are like, &quot;How A lot of the guys are like, &quot;Oh, good. That was really uncomfortable.&quot; So what do you notice? Did you feel that at all? That's fascinating, isn't it? Amazing. It may get sort of soft, or cold, or flat, Now, place your awareness up here, bring all now drop down to your heart, shift your awareness, just shift your attention to the center of Some of you can probably see it with your It actually looks like a little glowing orb light. And feel, feel how this is different when If you shift your awareness down to your chest, Good. So now what I want you to do, I want you guys practice, men and women, all right, practice here versus being here. And I want you to notice what happens to your the kind of words, the quality of communication. Notice the subtle things that happen if you Does that make sense? So ones and twos. One person, start at the head, move down to Twos, give them feedback and then switch. Make sense? [00:48:17] [00:49:32] Doc: Y'all feel that? It's really something, isn't it? Gets that whir. Be sure to remember, look with your eye, right [00:49:49] [00:51:06] Doc: Okay. Take just a minute to kind of wrap up. Tell your partner thank you. And go ahead after you tell your partner thank [00:51:31] [00:51:48] Good job. So we only have about 10 minutes left for So if you guys could turn forward. Would you guys mind sharing? Would you two mind standing up and sharing? Come on, would you? Can you? Thanks. Hey, guys. Hey, guys listen up. What are your names, ladies? Can you? Female: Yes. Is this on? Hey, guys, we're going to share up here. If you guys could just say your names before Cathy: I'm Cathy Lumsden. Sandy: Sandy. Doc: Sandy, can you stand up too? So I watched and I watched many of you. What's your name too, by the way, sweetie? Yeah, right, you, the one who's...yes, ma'am. Joanne: Joanne Bedo. [SP] Doc: Good. I'd like you to share just a second too. I watched the number of you had a very, very Can you guys share what it was like? Cathy: Well, it was amazing because both of came to our eyes. Doc: How many of you began to have that? That is how powerful it is when you are here. You literally touch another person. What else did you guys notice? Sandy: For me I really noticed that very first hands together.&quot; And I've done that so many times before. I've learned HeartMath. I've done everything. I know it all. But when you said, &quot;Stop thinking, just feel,&quot; Doc: Yeah. It makes all the difference. Sandy: And that's what allowed to do that And as you said, the moment we dropped into Doc: That's awesome. Can you give them a nice little round of applause? See, the reason that I bring this up is because, pretty bad way. And it's going to take the concerted long-term together in very, very challenging, complex And being able to manage a lot of things like Shared vision, mission, in order to kind of And there just isn't any way it's going to It will never happen. I'm sorry. It's just...Could you share a little bit? Joanne: Part of it, maybe. What I love is when we did the heart piece, And I felt that much deeper connection with I can tell you when I went into the heart beautiful. I love this conference. I love life.&quot; And it just gets us there. Doc: Nice. Thank you very much. So this center is about presence. When you are mind to mind, you can share your And there is synergy. What this is really about is these three centers, and functioning, you will experience the coveted Because you do not just live here, even though and condition you to do that. You're leaving out two thirds of your brain, So we need...if you want to be heart to heart, How many of you people have ever noticed, got to get shit done. I don't mean to disparage but I mean we need We need the presence for the brilliance and soulfulness and to do the right thing and do things for the long term, not for the short it.&quot; And we also need vitality, and beingness, because these kinds of changes are not easy, There's a couple different ways of doing business One of them is have fun, really love the people them and grow together with them over the bit more like the...everybody is kind of a going to get their money and extract, that That's really old school. And it's really time for 21st century change. And this kind of communication is what allows You guys are all going to leave and you're I hope that you'll practice with one another can get really good and feel comfortable. So that when you go, you know, the picture going out like that, so that you take it out and watch what happens. There's many, many, many more things that For example, we talked about listening. If you ever have difficulty listening, here's Place your awareness here just below your Lee, would you mind standing up and talking center? Because I'm sure you've taught this many times. Give him a nice round of applause. Lee: I love what you're doing with NLP and And, you know, what we'll do to a little bit that you're talking about and power up the I mean, it's perfect segue into what I'll Lower dantian is like the second brain, this your Chi. You know, I think what we're looking for when to this place, this earth center. It brings this center into the moment. And so when we can route and stabilize our we're actually here. Then we can be effective, we can be in the And when we can drop the heart center into We can enjoy the moment. So I think this is extremely powerful center Doc: Awesome. You are a multi-dimensional being with different These brains are part of different bodies, People talk about a physical body, a mental These are very real. It doesn't need to be discussed, like, no, But it is something you can discover on your And it's the best thing in the whole world So get a head start. Now, what I want to show you is this, if you looks like. Can you play that really quick video of Master Let's take another look in slow motion. That's my teacher. He lives in Los Angeles. And I'm in suite 301 and he's in suite 309. Looks pretty good for 80 years old. He's a master of Tai Chi, Qigong, Bagua, and He's been studying since the age of seven. And, man, was I a punk when I met him. And he's the dearest, sweetest man. But I've learned so much from him in conjunction about NLP, and about combining them together So that we as people can learn and grow and enhancing our communication, because it can meaningful, and greater things can happen and in your soul, and you are in your brilliance And if you guys enjoyed this, I would love or we'll do more in the next presentation Thank you guys very much. I hope this was helpful.