(intense electronic music) (haunting music) - [Jeff] I've got a question. How long do you think we humans have? - How long does the human race have? - Ooh. - Um. - Oh, wow. - I don't exactly know, but might be soon. - I have no clue. - [Jeff] No? (laughing) - I hope I get me at least - I think there's infinite amount of time. - Infinite. It's infinite, yeah. - I give us a million. A million years. - Being kind, I would say - 10, 12 years. - Thousands of years. - 47 years, three months, five days. It's approximate. - We're kind of like no matter how much damage we'll do, enough of us will survive to - Unless we can get to another planet, but then we're just gonna - Well, I think that we will be here for a long time, but we will change. We're gonna turn back into apes. (suspenseful dramatic music) - [Jeff] Have you ever if a single species took Maybe they're cute, maybe they're clever but lack a certain, shall we say, self-restraint? (somber dramatic music) What if they go too far? What if they go way, way, way, way, way too far? (somber dramatic music) How would they know when (intriguing orchestral music) (intensifying orchestral music) (music fading) (old-timey music) - Due to our release through factories and automobiles every year of more than six billion our atmosphere seems to be getting warmer. - This is bad? - Well, it's been calculated in the Earth's temperature (crashing ice into water) And if this happens, an inland of the Mississippi valley. Foreign weather, we're not of a far greater variety than even the atomic but with life itself. (piano synthesizer music) - [Jeff] That was 1958. We've known about the dangers of climate change for six decades. Back then, there was so much air pollution it would actually block out the sun. There was so much water (synthesizer music) Forget throwing plastic we tossed our cars in there. We also knew someday we'd run out of oil. - For millions of Americans, this may be the worst for finding gasoline to give they take as their due. - [Jeff] I never doubted and I wanted to be part of it. A scientist sounded the alarm and the modern environmental - Unless we do bring these we are certainly headed for disaster. - [Jeff] Students all across the country organized the first Earth Day. - This point in time, it's to talk about the environment but as everyday procedure, find very, very little concrete being done. - [Jeff] As for me, you might say I was an early environmentalist. When I was nine years old, a bulldozer began knocking I retaliated by putting (mellowly dramatic music) When I grew up, I became to the wilds of Northern Michigan to build a sustainable homestead I wired my cabin for solar panels and heated with wood I wrote about sustainable living in environmental issues and several news outlets. (mellow singing) I traveled the country (banging and clunking) (buzzing) Ecosystem collapse. (eerie music) And species threatened with extinction. - (tapping) Come on, girls, boys. (crowd chanting) - I covered protests against (people shouting and clapping) And was once even (car tires crunching) - Journalist. - [Jeff] Yep, yep, yeah. - By all means, you can take - [Jeff] Okay. - We'll write in our report to the FBI and the U.S. Attorneys Office. They'll call you. (traffic whizzing) (slamming) - [Jeff] Through all of why are we still addicted to fossil fuels? So I decided to begin following (mild rock music) What better place to check out how our renewable energy than a solar festival in the Green Mountain state of Vermont. Powered by 100% solar energy. (bass guitar and guitar music) - Solar. (laughing) - [Jeff] I was having fun. And got a chance to ask about getting solar panels installed. - You can keep adding, so maybe every time you get a tax return, (singing rock music) - [Jeff] But then, a (rock band playing and singing) Packed up my guitar Headed to the nearest bowling alley My camera man noticed some (thudding) - [Jeff] What'd you guys set up here? - This is for biodiesel generators in case we lose power due to the rain. - [Jeff] So the festival's going on solar energy, primarily? - Primarily. We do need to bring some of this stuff in just 'cause we want to make sure we have enough power not that we have lighting the stage. - [Jeff] Right. - But the biofuel generator wasn't enough, so they wound up plugging into the electrical grid that we all use. - The other inverter operating, it's actually pulling charging the batteries. (background chatter) It's running backwards from the way we originally intended to do it, but. (guitar music) - [Jeff] That was disappointing. (singing) But after all, it had been raining. Maybe next time things would go better. (mellow rock music) Luckily for us, hope was on the way. - It's been a long time change has come to America. (crowd cheering) (guitar music) - [Jeff] Green activists when newly elected rolled out a trillion with nearly 100 billion (guitar strumming and people chanting) Green was finally ramping up and everyone wanted to be part of it. President Obama brought in from the Apollo Alliance, - They've gotta put up tens they gotta put up - [Jeff] Former Vice President Al Gore, who had a few years earlier shared his ideas with the president. - We have the opportunity now to create jobs all across this country, in all 50 states, to re-power America. - [Jeff] Al Gore had already encouraged billionaire airline owner, to invest big-time in green energy. - Branson is pledging future to the tune of perhaps Three billion, that's with a - Is Al Gore a prophet? (laughing) - Ah, um, ah, how do you (all laughing) - [Jeff] Investors came forward. - [Newswoman] Investor Vinod of the clean tech revolution, has poured over a billion into some fifty energy startups. - [Jeff] Major banks were - By 2020, we think, 395 billion on an annual basis. - [Jeff] Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., was both on the board of major and was leading a green - We build wind farms, once you build our plant, (calm music) - [Jeff] The Sierra Club from billionaire and Michael Bloomberg. Their mission? Fight coal and promote clean energy. - So with the mayor's gift, We'll have a large and - It's time for America One that takes us beyond coal. - So funny-- - [Jeff] And then Bill McKibben, one of the nation's and author of a breakthrough book called &quot;The End of Nature,&quot; formed an organization called 350.org with the mission of igniting (calming music) - Can I show off my necktie for a minute 'cause they made it for me yesterday. It's got that 350 on it 'cause it's the most - [Jeff] Things were looking up. And the green energy (wind blowing) Michigan had been hit hard and hundreds of millions of dollars in green stimulus money was arriving. Now, to do their part for General Motors introduced a When the Chevy Volt was ready for release, I attended their press conference. - So, these electric vehicles are ready for public consumption and we're ready with the infrastructure, with the rates, with the communications. - I am extremely grateful to this is a chance for me to The Chevy Volt is upstairs. We'll be able to take a look at it. (banging metal) - [Woman] We got about 1,000 photos. - [Jeff] Yeah. - Here is the plug. (crowd laughing) (clicking) It's as simple as that. - [Jeff] The batteries are in the trunk? - No, the battery in this right down the center and (group talking) 'Cause everybody thought we No, we didn't. It's alive and well. - [Jeff] So, what's charging What's the source of electricity? - Well, here, it's - [Jeff] I mean, is it, - Oh, actually, Lansing - [Jeff] What's that? - Lansing feeds power to the building. So, I don't know-- - [Jeff] They're-- - I betcha they're a bit of coal? I think they're heavy on - [Jeff] Right now, the - Right. It would be charging off our - [Jeff] How long do you think it will be before there's a solar - Oh, golly. - To suggest that all of the power used for these cars will be in the very near future, In fact, these, we're talking at night, so there won't So, we're down to wind and very often, at night, the wind does fall off. - I don't think coal is bad. The what? Mountain top removal. - Oh, mount... Oh yeah, oh yeah. (laughing) - [Jeff] Yeah. - It's got lovely BTUs, it's How do you burn it more cleanly? I mean, do you see natural - We will be delivering power based on natural gas very shortly. And even with that mix, we - [Jeff] Have you gotten any support? - Oh, the environment groups - We did install the at my company, The Board just down the street from here a few miles if you want to take a look at it. What outfit are you with? - [Jeff] New World Media, on the renewable energy. - Oh, excuse, I gotta go for a second. - [Jeff] Okay, sure. - Thanks. (people chatting) - [Jeff] I decided to to check out their football right down the street. - What we're trying to do get a sense for what they've already done, as an indication of what we could do to push the envelope even further. - We took a hard look at around here, there's not really through all the time. That's what we liked about solar. You would get the power Pass these around, look at 'em. They are pliable. Made in Michigan, that Although, the efficiency of these panels is only If you happen to be NASA and you happen to own a rover running around Mars, they have very efficient panels. But, we can't afford those at about a million dollars a square inch. - [Jeff] How many homes would this array provide electricity for? - The standard answer that we're providing enough to meet the peak requirements of 50 homes. However, for most of the people that look at it a little bit closer, we generate about 63, 64 Our average customer uses about six thousand kilowatt hours a year. Six thousand into 64, it's We can meet the energy Over a year. (traffic humming) - Will that be an incentive - Well, if you wanted to make all of the energy required for the - Well, how about-- - You'd have a solar array that was three miles by five miles. - Right. But-- - But, but, I mean. - [Jeff] My friend from to be more positive, but (wind blowing) As a consequence of the wind farms were arising around the nation, including near my home - We've done coal and nuclear for years. We've been trying to get in These are the largest in Michigan, I think it's 482 foot total. - [Jeff] How many yards of concrete? - [John] It was 800 yards right around 140 tons of resteel. - [Jeff] What are those - That's all fiberglass and balsam. They're about 36,000 pounds a piece. This tower will weigh 800,000 Then the cell is 220,000 pounds and the hub rotor assembly is another 160. It's pretty substantial. (wind blowing) - [Jeff] They were impressive machines. (wind blowing) But is it possible for machines made by industrial civilization to save us from industrial civilization? (wind blowing) (group talking together) In environmental leader of Vermont, the Green Mountain state, a site was being cleared for the installation of wind turbines. A group of citizens was concerned about how the construction might affect the mountains they love. I joined them for a tour. - It's going to be 21 turbines. - [Group] 21? - Yeah. - In this project, yeah. The estimate was maybe there - If the goal is to try in climate change, I appreciate looking to the sky in the hopes we can do that. But more importantly, at the ground thinking, this I want to leave to my kids. When I was a kid we'd go we would be able to drink from the waters down the hill here, and now - [Jeff] And how long are - [Man] 20-something years, 20-- - I know, it's just a nanosecond. - [Jeff] 20 years? - Oh, it's a nanosecond - [Jeff] Has anybody considered that this is mountain top - Yeah, and we've even had people say, &quot;If you can do mountain top removal &quot;in Kentucky and West Virginia for coal, &quot;then it's about time the &quot;in mountain top removal, too.&quot; Uh-oh. - [Jeff] You think he's - [Man In Hat] Probably. The thing is that you've got to have a fossil fuel and idling 100% of the time. Because if you cycle up or cycle down, as the demand on the wind comes through, then you actually generate than if you just ran it straight. - [Jeff] Do you ever go to &quot;That's not true. &quot;It doesn't matter, we're - Doesn't make any - They're using it. Because, let's just say Just stopped for an hour. You've got to have that power. - [Jeff] What do you do? - I'm an environmental I usually work with businesses but I would never work (leaves crunching) - You didn't get me on Not being judgmental but we've got to deal and sustainable resources, All this energy's supposedly We can find unique and This is not a Vermont company. Green Mountain Power will and Gaz Metro is owned by which is a big resource company in Canada which is exploiting the PowerSands that wants to build the XL pipeline. See, it's-- - [Woman] And they're all in bed together. - Still we don't know the whole story. - [Jeff] Have you asked Mr. - He thinks anything renewable is good. - [Jeff] Yeah. - So that's what I've heard people say. (wind blowing) (up tempo music) - [Jeff] I am in a strange position. I'm against our addiction to fossil fuels and have long been a fan of green energy. (crowd talking) But everywhere I encountered green energy, it wasn't what it seemed. - This is like a perpetual energy battery. - [Jeff] And where do you - The hydrogen that's in, from any hydrocarbon material. So, you can get it from from any petroleum oil based product. - [Jeff] I read about a zoo that was said to be powered by elephant manure. But it turned out the elephants didn't even produce enough - Yeah, we don't even really make enough and what we had, elephant We would need a lot more. - [Jeff] More elephants? - [Zoo Keeper] Yep, (woman or manure. - [Jeff] Ethanol plants also seem to have a secret ingredient. - This is the most productive and we're not that far west in the world, as well. So, bring the two together - [Jeff] Great, so ethanol A giant, fossil fuel based, to produce corn and in the form of coal. All of this in the attempt It was enough to make my head explode. (pulsating music) I was getting the uneasy feeling that green energy was And I wasn't the only one. - I've counted something like 25 different So surely, among all of those, there are enough sources of energy to keep us living basically the way we are in perpetuity. That's not the reality. Currently, we're getting, in some cases, no energy from these potential options. - [Jeff] Richard York, of published a study in the Journal of Nature in which he posed a question, &quot;actually replace fossil fuels?&quot; - What we implicitly assume, often, the substitute pushes out the thing you want it to substitute for. What you find is, nations that add non-fossil to see a particular - [Jeff] That's pretty mind blowing. You've got billions of and green energy is not - They don't even know that - The story that we're we're in ecological hot water, but there are technological fixes and if we're just creative enough, if we're just ingenious enough and if we just work hard Seeking technological is simply going to lead of catastrophe sooner rather than later. - We wanna believe that these for us, so if we get a little worried and somebody comes up with that this will do it for (guitar strums) - [Jeff] Because we're a little worried, are we desperate to accept any Or green? (guitar strumming) Are we avoiding looking too closely because we don't want to know the answer? Ozzie Zehner, a visiting and Northwestern of the same questions. - I mean, I thought that solar and wind were probably It wasn't really even that long ago. One of the most dangerous that alternative technologies, are somehow different from fossil fuels. What I hear a lot of times is solar cells are made out of sand. - [Announcer] Have you ever The main ingredient that makes them work is silicon, or sand. - [Announcer] This is are made of, sand. - They don't use sand at all. I'll show you what... (chair clicking) So, this is one of the ingredients, it's actually mined quartz. (rocks clattering) (rock exploding) - [Announcer] Spruce Pine, North Carolina, regarded as the finest in the world, the semiconductor, solar and communication applications. - You can't use sand because So, you start with very and a very high quality those two together into an - [Woman] The quartz is in a large furnace at temperatures - And so you need more coal to do that. I'll get another coal out. When we melt these together, we get silicon metal and carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide just goes off and you got rid of the carbon and you're left with silicon metal. This is not clean coal. (laughing) - [Jeff] Not clean coal. Ozzie Zehner said it was an illusion that renewables were replacing Environmental groups continue - We've already seen more than 25% of the U.S. coal fleet or is on a schedule to retire. - [Jeff] Coal plants were that well meaning people - NV Energy's now gonna go and go with renewable. One of the largest solar plants and that's gonna happen right behind me. - Since you can't replace they're actually replacing the coal plant with two natural gas plants. And natural gas is a fossil fuel. This is the Las Vegas This is one of the facilities that's replacing the coal This is the Sun Peak generating facility. This is the second natural gas plant that was used to replace the coal plant. And you hear the same story in Iowa. - [Woman] Instead of by coal-fired power plants, the solar farm will now avoid about 2.1 million pounds - But then they're building This is a 650 megawatt natural gas plant. That's four times more megawatts than the coal plant over And they're doing the same which was that subject of that Years of Living - Duke Energy operates a coal plant right outside of Asheville that of climate pollution in And we are working to retire that plant and replace it with clean energy. - But what they don't tell you is that we're also building a - So, we'll be retiring a We'll invest $750 million to build a state-of-the-art - When Michael Brune stands up he's using solar cells and wind turbines. - This is the new world. 100% clean energy. - When Michael Bloomberg &quot;Cleaner energy,&quot; he's - Create cleaner energy, - [Ozzie] In fact, the Sierra actually coincides with one of fossil fuel production Most of that being natural gas. - [Jeff] Ozzie's assertion that renewables were not if true, would upend about green energy and (tranquil piano music) What would happen if I to industry insiders? Like, where do solar panels come from? - Well, you do have to start with a mine. - [Jeff] Wait till you see my-- (laughing) Or, what's stopping us on 100% solar and wind? - Well, intermittency is - Good stability. - The sun's everywhere, - There's a lot of to California, wanting to and wind farms. The utilities would turn to me and my team to help them look at what the - [Jeff] When we add solar cells or wind turbines to a grid, do we get to shut off a coal plant? - That's certainly the or the difference is that All of the sudden, a cloud and your solar generation And if you don't have something else there to meet whatever the then you're gonna have power outages. - [Jeff] So, we don't get to turn a fossil fuel power plant off when the sun is shining - Well, it's not that easy. We need to be able to back up that power to keep the system steady all the time so it doesn't collapse. Most likely that's through but also what we call either nuclear or coal but that maybe can be and dialed up when demand starts rising. - [Jeff] Does it affect the efficiency to turn fossil fuel - Oh, yeah. They don't like to be dialed up and down. It does make, that's - Turning them on, turning and lost and any time, kind of like when you you use a little extra gas to get it turned on. I do still think you have to maintain a base load of some kinds. - [Jeff] What's the solution then? - You need energy storage. - Without storage, you can't count on it. - If you can store the of things that are intermittent you can store that, now for a base load. - [Jeff] But would adding storage like batteries increase - Yeah, absolutely. In a big way, actually. And as more energy it has a mass scale implication. (piano music) - [Jeff] When I looked up there is, it was less than one-tenth of one percent of what's needed. In a couple years, they begin to degrade and need to be replaced a few years later. I learned that the solar panels - Some solar panels are So, it's not as if you get I don't know that it's the solution, and here I am helping that would go into photovoltaics. - [Jeff] And so to overcome of solar and wind, rarely a new generation of technology was rising in the California desert. - [Woman] What is this? - What we're using is a field of mirrors to focus sunlight onto a tower. The power plant itself, at 377 megawatts, will be the largest of - This will become the biggest (crowd clapping and cheering) There's some people that they see miles and miles of emptiness. I see miles and miles of a gold mine. - [Jeff] But this next generation had a fossil fuel secret, too. - This solar facility burns every morning in order - [Jeff] How long do they - Hours, usually. This is the incoming natural This plant would work about as I would without coffee - [Jeff] Or maybe how you - Without food, yeah. (laughing) They have to file for acid rain permits, permits for nitrous oxide emissions, they have to apply for Because they're producing so they have to offset that. The whole thing is built using from the concrete to the to the backing on the mirrors. The sun is renewable, but - [Jeff] Oh, come on. There's got to be something renewable. Glass is renewable. - Glass. (laughing) Glass is not renewable. - [Jeff] Iron's renewable. (laughing) Aluminum? That's renewable. I recycle my soda cans. (laughing) I know it's renewable. - Yeah, the problem with that it takes an incredible and process all of the materials that go into building something like this. You use more fossil fuels to do this than you're getting benefit from it. You would have been better off in the first place, - [Jeff] That green energy has nothing to do with fossil fuels only meant for you and me. Here is Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., speaking to oil and gas company insiders. - It's a combination solar gas plant. It's a turbine that we suspend it from a big and surround it by giant The plants that we're and the solar plants, are gas plants. - [Jeff] What kind of - Well (gusting wind) we're For instance, you'll hear about Germany running on wind and solar. - 35% right now. - 50% of their power. - They were days this past summer when the Germans were generating 80% of their power from the sun. - [Ozzie] But Germany is still Europe's - (speaking in foreign language) - Uhh. - [Ozzie] Only a small fraction of their energy actually In fact, Germany's pushing that could import natural gas Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla, when he announced his he said it would power itself - Through a combination of it will produce all energy that it needs. - [Ozzie] But in fact, it to the same electrical grid (fast paced dramatic music) Electric cars, wind turbines and solar panels use rare earth metals. And in fact, the rare earth mine is right up the street from here. In mining these deep deposits, about 90% of what they pull up out of thorium and low level Radioactive waste that has they kind of turn into over the desert floor. - [Jeff] Well, that's good - Yeah, the desert loves that. (laughing) Tesla's electric cars which uses eight times more energy to manufacture than steel. They use lithium, which And even more graphite, which is one of the rarest forms of carbon. In fact, the investors wanted to open several new graphite mines after Tesla announced the Gigafactory. Apple claims to be 100% renewable. - We never stop thinking about We now run Apple on 100% renewable energy. (clapping and cheering) All - [Ozzie] And they did chop down a forest to put up solar panels near But they didn't disconnect - Duke says energy hungry companies like Apple can never go - They're still hooked up to our grid. (fast paced energetic music) - [Ozzie] Despite all the claims, I haven't found a single that's running on 100% (suspenseful music) - [Jeff] It turns out, you to run a place like Ivanpah, or in this case, themselves. - [Ozzie] All of the mirrors by the Koch brothers, a company that they control. Koch Carbon creates a lot to create the cement and And not only that, they build the plants that builds polysilicon for solar cells. They have, actually, their own solar line called Solar Molex. From every step of the process, - [Jeff] But, they're the evil doers. - Yeah (laughing), the funny part is that when you criticize you're accused of working (laughing) That's the idiocy in all of this. This absolutely can not This relies on the most toxic that we've ever created. (drum rolling) (small triangle dinging) (pulsating dramatic music) (music building in intensity) (up tempo dramatic music) (music building) (music tempo increasing) (music ending dramatically) - The beauty of a solar facility, and particularly this technology, is that it is so environmentally benign. (roaring of large machinery) [Jeff] I, too, had once thought that deserts could be sacrifice zones. (powerful drum based music) I was wrong. Deserts are not dead. They are, in fact, full of ancient life. (powerful music) In the desert, the Joshua waiting for the giant ground sloths and the mammoths that shall never return. The Joshua tree depended to reach up high and eat their seeds, and thus disperse the Joshua tree. (mystical vocal music) But now, stranded in time and space, the Joshua tree awaits a new fate. To be sacrificed in the name of progress. - Joshua trees are torn down 23ABC's Cassie Carlisle travels to the Mojave Desert to talk to neighbors. - [Cassie] They're not your usual tree. More like something from fiction, but these Joshuas are - No, it makes me sick that killing them real quick. And now they're grinding them up, getting rid of all the evidence. (powerful dramatic music) - [Jeff] Not far from Ivanpah Solar, Daggett, California was home to several generations of solar arrays. Including some of the first on the planet. (loud machinery) Ozzie and I thought we would take a trip to see where it all began. (wind blowing loudly) - This is one of the sunniest and it's the center of the solar industry and they've been building and dismantling and building arrays (man's voice on loudspeaker) - [Jeff] Then we happened to run into the mayor of Daggett. - And then the solar plants back in, I'd say '83, '84, that solar plant out there. - Yeah, the SEGS. - And everybody here worked. - How's that hold up? Is it, are the jobs still here? - No. Jobs went bye-bye. They have their normal plant operators and stuff like that, the big wigs, you know, they have that. Where that energy's going, I don't know. - [Jeff] Were you originally optimistic that the solar would bring more jobs and development for people? - Yeah, we really did, we really did. A lot of things come into They go really fast. (loud wind blowing) - Do you see this? - [Jeff] Then Ozzie and I discovered that the giant solar arrays - Oh, my God. (wind whooshing) - [Jeff] I mean, this was huge. It suddenly dawned on me A solar dead zone. Look at the blowing sand. - Yeah. There's sand everywhere, there's sand dunes - [Jeff] Wow. (humming of solar factory) (solemn music) So, after all the mining, the fossil fuels, the toxins, the environmental destruction, here's what happens next. (somber music) Only a few years after it was built, things at Ivanpah began to fall apart. Broken mirrors littered the desert. (music intensifying) Yes, these giant solar and wind technology installations may last only a few decades, (somber music) then tear it down and (somber music) If there is enough planet left. (somber music) It was becoming clear that what we have been calling and industrial civilization, Desperate measures not to save the planet, (thunder crashing) but to save our way of life. (somber music) Desperate measures rather humans are experiencing all at once. - Every different perspective I look at and imagine, well, we or go to a larger area Well, it turns out, there isn't more. I looked at marine production and found that peaked 20 years ago. More and more of what we The current acres of actively farmed land, that has peaked also. The rivers are already being irrigated to about the limits of The Colorado River doesn't Well, then you start the southern great plains, and I think they can almost of ground water and (somber music) A human vulnerability at the global scale, that any one of them we but we're seeing them propagating across topic after topic of And I don't think the people in charge are near nervous enough. - [Jeff] Though each of them takes climate change seriously, every expert I talked to wanted to bring my attention to the - They're too many human beings - As a global community, to start dealing with - Population growth continues to be the, not the elephant, the herd - [Jeff] Can a single species that's come to dominate an entire planet-- - Be smart enough to voluntarily - [Jeff] Is there any (laughing) - Wow. - We have to have our Because we're not good at reining them in if there are seemingly - Species hit the population I mean, that's a common story in biology. If that happens to us, in a way, it's the natural order of things. And I don't think we're gonna I don't. - [Jeff] As a scientist, what leads you to that conclusion? - Well, because right of that number is supported which is heavily subsidized by oil. And it's not sustainable. And there's no going back. Without seeing some sort of there's no turning back. - [Jeff] What's the thing that you want-- (laughing) - Nobody's ever asked me if I'm scared. - [Jeff] Yeah. - And, I am. I actually am scared. I lose sleep over all of this. (somber music) - [Jeff] It took modern of years to reach a And then we tapped into millions of years of stored energy, known as fossil fuels. Our human population exploded. It increased by 10 times Our consumption has also exploded. On average, ten times per person, and many times more in the Western world. You put the two together, the result is a total human than only 200 years ago. (mellow music) And that is the most terrifying We humans are poised for a fall Not because of one thing. Not climate change alone. But all the human-caused changes the planet is suffering from. (slow tempo music) So, why are bankers, industrialists and environmental leaders only focused on the narrow solution Is it the profit motive? And why, for most of for the illusion green (waves lapping on shore) (squeaking door) Clearly, to answer this question, I needed professional help. - Keep my stuff. No, I never heard... - I'll just be honest You can be my clinical It's like, the right has religion. And they have a belief Our side says, &quot;Oh, it's gonna be okay, &quot;we're gonna have solar panels. &quot;We're gonna have wind towers.&quot; Soon as I heard you talk I'm like, &quot;Could that be it? &quot;Could it be that we can't &quot;Could we have a religion - Absolutely. I think you've hit the What just differentiates of life is that, we're not only here but that we know that we're here. If you know that you're even dimly, that you'll And on top of that, we don't So, we don't like that We don't like that you could walk outside and get hit by a fuckin' meteor. What human beings did back in yesteryear is to envelop ourselves in culturally constructive belief systems. You know, call them cultures, call them world views, schemes of things. Whatever you call them, every Every culture has an account Every culture has a prescription for how you're supposed to And every culture offers its either literally or symbolically. Then the question is, well, into people who don't share those beliefs? Whether you know it or not, but that's undermining the confidence with which you subscribe And exposing you to the very anxiety that those beliefs were constructed to eradicate in the first place. If we're to make progress, or even to persist as a form to radically overhaul our basic conception of who and what we are, and Because the people that both on the left and the right that think we're gonna be Or solar panel ourselves into the future, where life will look pretty You know, only cleaner or better. - [Jeff] Either with - Or both. I think that's just frankly delusional. - What I'm hearing is that, with my own anxiety about death and life, and presented with a reminder to make some tragic - Yes. The only solution in principle he said, &quot;There's only one &quot;with death, thereafter I find that downright inspiring. - [Jeff] As for our environmental leaders, who dwell in comfortable illusions, how tragic of decisions I was about to find out. (humming of machinery) (leaves crunching) - [Josh] They claim they're but actually a great deal and lots of biomass facilities As you can see by this outside of the facility, these are trees. - [Jeff] It turns out of green energy in Vermont Burning trees to create electricity. - This is definitely not the way. At the first step is actually how we can reduce our energy consumption. This is all the ash that has a great deal of radiation because these trees have been absorb... Oops, there's the... (machinery humming) - You're in unforbidden territory there. - [Jeff] Are we? - May I ask both of you to - [Josh] Is that something - It's not an interest, or I'm calling 911. - [Jeff] Okay. - [Security Guard] We've (loud crunching footsteps) Police will be down here - [Josh] You asked us to - [Security Guard] I'm I'm asking you to come up to the office. - [Josh] Okay, thanks for the offer. Maybe next time. (electronic beeping) (machinery humming) You got everything here. You have the number one that people think, and from the smokestack. Reality is what you have is a facility that burns 400,000 green This facility burns thirty - [Jeff] That's a hell of lot of wood. - [Josh] And on top of that, it actually burns natural gas, as well. - [Jeff] And to think of these to replace one It's just not gonna work. - It's just nuts. It takes great deal of fossil fuels to cut down all these trees, to truck 'em in, to use the big machinery to dump the wood chips everywhere. So, the idea that somehow with fossil fuels just It couldn't happen without - [Jeff] How did the environmental groups get pulled into this? - Obviously, the main factor is delusion. A lot of these environmental that all we have to do is, for instance, switch our fossil fuel economy over to a few solar panels and windmills, and we can continue living life as normal. Some of the environmental for years, touting facilities number one, it's carbon neutral. That this will actually help because there are no CO2 emissions. It actually emits over 400 thousand tons per year of carbon dioxide. Oh, but once we but They'll grow back over a We cut every tree in the United States, it would be able to power Then what happens when (wind blowing) - [Jeff] I discovered biomass plants were not even always biomass plants. - It's actually a solid waste incinerator that's posing as a biomass plant. The impact in this community is severe. The plant is right next Head Start school for preschool kids. There is Green Hill Manor and that's an assisted And there's also a right next door. - [Jeff] How do you Can you see it ever? - We can see it. The snow at the elementary school and at the preschool some kind of black soot. We just had it analyzed and it came back as mostly tire chips. They have to add tire-derived fuel to raise the temperature of the fire, because anybody whose tried to knows that it doesn't burn very well. - [Jeff] But this biomass plant had yet another surprise. - They admit that they of creosote treated railroad ties. Besides that, they are allowed of PCP treated railroad ties. These are shipped in from Canada. It's not green, it's not it's not anything that Yet, they got $11.5 million grant because it was classified as renewable. The plant owner told us that they were having trouble And he even asked us if where we lived, would we call the plant and let them know so they - [Jeff] We're not talking about some old industrial site, we're next to one of the most - We re next to Lake Superior, This is actually L'Anse Bay, It's Lake Superior, our So, it's a very sacred (clopping horse feet) - Are you with the news? - [Jeff] No, there's supposed to be a climate change rally. - Oh. - (group chanting) - [Jeff] Michigan State inspired by 350.org, were holding a rally for the clean energy future - (crowd shouting and cheering) - Imagine when I found out that it is the largest on-campus The goal is to get the whole world moving beyond fossil fuels. (crowd cheering and clapping) - [Student] Who wants to do - [Jeff] But it turned out of green energy in mind the - The university contracted with a energy contracting company. They put together a modeling tool. First two or three months that the steering committee it didn't even contain So there was (voice fading out) - [Jeff] Adam told me substituting coal burning - But the permit that is by the state is a permit I think per year. And the plan is to do Unfortunately, the steering biomass renewable at the moment. Which we're not happy with. (students laughing) - [Jeff] Michigan State to go green. - I'm happy to announce beyond coal in the next decade. Now, as we begin to wean to try another alternative - [Jeff] And who was here to help the University from burning coal to burning trees? - So, it is a great to celebrate the remarkable step that the university is taking to say, &quot;We're gonna do our part.&quot; (solemn music) - [Jeff] A remarkable step, indeed. We're to do our part by getting out of bed with coal companies and into bed with logging companies? Where did the idea of colleges going green by burning trees come from, anyway? A little college called Middlebury - Welcome to the of Middlebury's new biomass It's now my great pleasure to introduce this afternoon's speaker, Bill McKibben. (audience clapping) - What powers a learning community? And as of this afternoon, the easy answer to that is wood chips. It's incredibly beautiful and see that big bunker You can put any kind of whatever you want. Pretty much anything that if we can chip it down to the right size. And there are very few in this country of that kind But it shows it could happen anywhere and it should happen anywhere. In fact, it must happen everywhere. - [Jeff] It must happen everywhere. (dramatic piano music) And now it's time for a nature break. Enjoying our sustainably (classical piano music) - If you walk through here and you look, there's virtually nothing growing. A little bit of grass occasionally. (increasing classical music) - [Jeff] And it seemed that were suddenly everywhere, like this one in Cadillac, Michigan. (truck engine rumbling) In Detroit, an incinerator that burned garbage was considered green. (classical piano music) - The Detroit incinerator is and pollutants that neighbors and put their health at risk. - It's a stink, it's a horrendous stink. - [Jeff] A proposed biofuel plant for the Upper Peninsula of from tens of thousands of square miles. - In order to create 40 they are going to have to use up over a million tons of green wood. We pointed out that more natural gas than they to displace the natural gas. If you continue to do this, you're gonna be fertilizing the forest. - [Jeff] Fertilizing forests with? Fossil fuels? based fertilizers. - [Jeff] Made from natural gas? - Yeah. (frenzied piano music) [Jeff] Then came a ballot proposal backed by Bill McKibben and nearly requiring Michigan to get from renewable sources by the year 2025. - [News Anchor] This year, keep burning dirty coal to clean, renewable energy Vote yes on Proposal three. - [Jeff] Surprisingly, Proposal three, also known as 25 by of an organization that was - Allowing America's farms, to be active participants in contributing to America's energy future. - [Jeff] These are the biomass and biofuel plants across the U.S. (popping) How did this happen? And it wasn't just the U.S.A. It was all around the world. Wood chips, which is just are being exported to Europe from America, British Columbia, Brazil and Indonesia. Wherever they can get them from. (classical piano music) Biomass, especially when is by far the largest around the world, even in Germany, source of the solar miracle. (classical piano music) But maybe I was missing something. Maybe I had it all wrong. (woman's voice on loudspeaker) I decided to ask people how they felt about biomass Would you say we don't need to do biofuels and food and forests for energy? - No, no, definitely not. Of course not, of course not. - Burning biomass, any kind of combustion, is something we just - The more trees we have, the better. - A lot of that didn't grow overnight. If we cut it down, we don't - [Jeff] You're here as an oak tree? - Yes. - If I had a chainsaw, that wouldn't be saving - No, it's painful. It's a painful way to go. I can tell you that right now. - [Jeff] It would take (laughing) - Yeah, oh yeah. But it wouldn't be me, - With so many people doing all of a sudden at once, - No, I think we should - [Group] No, no. - Why would we cut down trees? - We shouldn't replace one with another terrible Because it's one thing. (girl's voice fading) - [Jeff] Clearly, most to biomass and biofuels. (calming guitar music) But what about environmental leaders? At times, they have promoted they sound like they are against biomass. Like this Sierra Club policy, &quot;We are deeply concerned &quot;of wood-to-energy for native forests.&quot; Or this statement signed on &quot;Burning forests for &quot;of our best defenses But then again, their that enable biomass. The NRDC says you must use The Dogwood Alliance says maybe small biomass plants are okay. And the Sierra Club flat out states, &quot;Biomass can be sustainable.&quot; (pensive guitar music) Which side are they really on? I thought for sure with environmental leaders - [Group] No frackin' way. - Where's the science, - We're here to tell a of this state, of our - [Jeff] Does your organization - I'm not sure I would as we can wrap our heads around it. We've almost made a peace - [Jeff] I'm just curious, on using forests for biomass? - Biomass is renewable, - And I'm with Clean Water Action, we don't really have a stand on it. If the director of the she'd be able to talk - I'm the director for the - [Jeff] Does the Sierra Club support or not support biomass? - I'm not totally prepared to talk about our policy on biomass today. Our position is somewhat nuanced, so I just want to be careful not to... (crowd talking) - [Jeff] So, you're with 350? - I am. - Do 350 have a position on biomass 'cause I'm kind of actually-- - I can't really speak for 350. - Do you personally have an opinion about whether we should be burning - No, I don't have an opinion on that. I like a fire. (laughing) - [Jeff] One of my biggest concern as an environmentalist is that There are tree burning power plants. Are you aware of the problems - Yeah, yeah, I'm not as aware of that as I could be or should be. - Jeff Gibbs, working on a documentary. In Michigan where I live, where I'm from, there's large plants that and pretty much whole trees chopped up. Do you have a thought about whether that should be a part - The great thing about green energy is you don't have to pick a favorite. - Jeff Gibbs. - Oh, hello. - My biggest concern is that they're moving toward solar and wind but 60% of their actual 60% of what's considered renewable energy. Burning trees for energy? - I don't know the details out of Germany. What Germany's really doing is a lot of sun related and that's - [Jeff] I'd like to see us come out against any burning of trees. - All right, well go and do it. - For clean energy Would you? - Although I confess I stoke my wood stove almost every night of the winter, so I'm not really the right person to ask. - But designating green - Yeah, yeah, I don't know. It's not what this day's about. - [Jeff] But if we're burning trees instead of fossil fuels. - (crowd drowns out) from Taiwan. - Oh, good. - We're wondering what role do you want to play in this (voice fading out)? - [Jeff] I think the biomass (somber music) I found only one to reject biomass and biofuels. - So we are talking of the old oil economy trying to maintain itself now through another raw The only reason corn and soy in this country is the I think the big crisis of our time is our minds have been manipulated We shifted to measuring growth, not in terms of how life is enriched but in terms of how life is destroyed. (peaceful guitar) - [Jeff] Her honesty was refreshing. But as for the rest of them, I wondered, what are they hiding? And why are they hiding it? Is it their ignorance? Or is it something else? (music increasing in tempo) What if they, themselves, (intensifying dramatic music) What if they've made some kind of deal they shouldn't have made? And are leading us all off the cliff? (light upbeat music) It was long past time with the other elephant The profit motive. The only reason we've climate change plus is because billionaires, bankers and corporations profit from it. And the reason we're not consumption and the suicide that would be bad for business. Especially the cancerous that rules the world. Now hiding under a cover of green. - Today Bloomberg I'm happy to announce, a new investment of $30 million in the (crowd cheering and clapping) We have more. I'm glad to say that more than a dozen additional to match that $30 million. (clapping and cheering) - [Jeff] And who were these new partners? One of them was Jeremy Grantham. Billionaire, world's leading (man speaking in background) They were not investing in trees to turn them into nature preserves. Which might answer another riddle, why is this name redacted on Would they be embarrassed to from a man who made his to the world? Bloomberg, bringing a timber to the party, was no coincidence. Bloomberg sponsored a U.N. climate session to discuss wrapping up biomass and biofuels around the world. Billionaires were in love what was left of nature Remember when Al Gore had to invest billions into saving the planet? - [News Anchor] Richard Branson, powered a Boeing 747 on a coconut oil mixture of this amazing oil as - [Jeff] Branson had actually He was attempting to replace the jet fuel damaging the planet with biofuels that required the consumption And it was game-on for - [News Anchor] Dozens of researchers from all over the northwest gathered in Missoula the past two of converting the of wood into jet fuel. Especially with the demand to grow by a billion gallons - [News Anchor] United Airlines in biofuel company, Fulcrum BioEnergy. The airline used 3.9 billion - [Jeff] What technology was Vinod Khosla hoping to profit from? - Nature takes a million years KiOR can produce it in seconds. - [Lesley] The company took where logs are picked up by a giant claw, dropped into a shredder and Clean gasoline? - Clean, green gasoline. - There must be a downside. - There is no downside. - [Jeff] The bank that ruined millions of lives on the levers of power, what would their favorite - One of the very interesting markets that we deal with is Brazil. It's unlike any other alternative energy isn't It's so much a part of The country began to of sugar cane to produce ethanol. - [Jeff] There was a who was particularly in love with turning forests into profits. - Has everybody got enough coffee? Might want to get some more. - [Jeff] Meet David Blood, former CEO of Asset Management for Goldman Sachs. How much money did Mr. be invested in green energy? - A natural alignment for of $40-50 trillion worth of capital. - [Jeff] $40-50 trillion. And who was going to help Help him raise that - A gentleman some of you may recognize and know, Bill McKibben. - It's entirely dependent on what kind of political will we can muster. And if we do not get this done very fast, then we're not gonna get it done. - [Jeff] And so Bill McKibben went forth to generate the political of dollars in green investments. - Our next guest has been called our nation's leading environmentalist. - And you are, in some sense, the Grand Poobah of the - My guest tonight is on a global crusade. - [Jeff] On a global crusade for what? - Commit to divesting from fossil fuels. We can't justify investing that are basically - [Jeff] So when you and invest in green funds, I took a deep dive into Securities and Exchange Commission For instance, in the Green Century Funds, recommended by 350.org and Bill McKibben, I found less than one and 99% things like mining, (increasing dramatic music) oil and gas infrastructure companies, (dramatic music) including a tar sands exploiter, McDonald's one of the companies across the planet. Archer Daniels Midland, one of the world's largest Coca Cola, the largest creator of plastic pollution on earth, logging and paper companies including one that brags about biomass (dramatic music) Lots of banks. (dramatic music) Including BlackRock, the largest financer of deforestation on earth. - The business that they're engaged in is actually destroying (dramatic music) - [Jeff] The Sierra Club, also partners with a green fund called Aspiration. Aspiration also includes from the destruction of the planet. Including Chevron, - [Announcer] In order to of the well, the shale formation will - [Jeff] The Russian gas giant, Gazprom. - [Announcer] Gazprom explored gas reserves, - [Jeff] And in perhaps the the Sierra Club's green fund's the world's largest consumer of forests, to be incinerated in green (somber piano music) Of course, one investment run by Bill McKibben's buddy, David Blood. And who was the chairman of this fund? Someone familiar. - Use capitalism, it gives incentives for people to do their best. - [Jeff] Al Gore and David Blood partnered to form a company called Blood and Gore. No, scratch that, Generation And within this fund, a special investment category of biomass and biofuels. Funny thing was, they partnered before Al Gore's film came out. (dramatic music) Was that movie just about - On one side, we have gold bars. Mm, mm, mm. (audience laughing) Don't they look good? I'd just like to have On the other side of the (audience laughing) If we do the right thing, then we're gonna create a lot of wealth. - [Jeff] And when it came time for Al Gore to choose between the entire of them gold bars, what Here's Al Gore earning his about the rain forest on behalf of the sugar - Let me come in on the with the issue of the that Amazon River basin to produce more ethanol out And apparently you're not - No, no, I am, I simply forgot. (motor roaring) (children screaming &amp; crying) What's been going on there, (speaking in foreign language) And with your permission, I'll of it over a period of 25 years. (loud tapping) - [Announcer] The invasion in the region clashes with the indigenous These are images of a last ditch attempt by the Guarani-Kaiowa to resist eviction. - Important to note that the exploitation of the sugar cane growing to inevitably have the of causing destruction in the Amazon. - Sugar cane fields are burning. They're set alight before the harvest to eliminate the leaves which makes cutting more efficient. (somber music) Environmentalists blame the seemingly endless sugar cane fields, on an epic scale. And along with deforestation, to the environment is becoming clear. (dramatic music) Once the indigenous the land owners set their homes on fire. (dramatic music) - [Jeff] Is there anything too terrible to qualify as green energy? - Thank you very much, Secretary once again, inviting me The Navy's work to help launch this new fuel industry is invaluable. (roaring plane engine) - [Announcer] The U.S. this year. It is time to turn green. Joining the vessels is it's great green fleet of warships, powered by fuel from grass and animal fat. - [Jeff] Animal fat? (thudding and pounding) - The next time you fill up at your neighborhood gas station, you might find yourself into your tank. That's right, U.L. Lafayette researchers have developed alligator fat into a renewable source for biofuels. - [Jeff] And once we run through GE, who brings you nuclear is ready with a plan. - I believe that liquid fuels, chemicals, are eventually gonna have to be made from sustainable raw materials. We believe that seaweed is one of the most attractive opportunities. (majestic music) - [Jeff] Better hurry. One year after it was filmed, (somber music) You might ask yourself, what remains of nature Well, that's why they're (laughing) The takeover of the environmental movement by capitalism is now complete. Environmentalists are no with a profit motive, but The Nature Conservancy is - We will capture the most and there will be another large block sold to timber investment groups. The Union of Concerned of concerned salesmen, not for science, but to create markets for electric cars. The Sierra Club sells electric cars and solar panels right from their website. - The best thing about Sungevity is that they make it easy for you. All that you have to do is to say yes. - [Jeff] The New York Times to bring you the good news about biofuels. - [Announcer] Algae derived fuel could help us meet growing demands. - [Jeff] Treehugger.com, which claims to be the largest single was founded and funded by Georgia Pacific, a logging company. In fact, they are neighbors. Georgia Pacific is owned by who are likely the largest recipient of green energy biomass (somber music) Yes, the merger of environmentalism and capitalism is now complete. But maybe it's always been complete. - How is 350.org funded? - Well, not very well. - (laughing) Who are your funders? - To the degree that we it's come from a few - [Karyn] Which ones? - Ah, let's see. The, I'm trying to think There's a foundation in, I think it's called that I think has been the biggest funder. - So you don't get money or any of those big foundations? - [Bill] No, we did. Rockefeller Brothers Fund when we were starting out. That's been useful, too. - But they no longer fund you? - I don't know, I don't have this sort of- - [Karyn] (laughing) Really? - Funders sitting in front of me. - [Karyn] That's usually - Rockefeller's been one is a great ally in this fight. - [Interviewer] You just sold - Right. - [Interviewer] And that but an oil producer. - Gas, mainly and oil. - Your take on that, about a from a country that bases Isn't there a bit of hypocrisy in that? - Well, I get the criticism, I'm proud of the transactions. - You couldn't find, for your business, a more sustainable choice? - What is not sustainable about it? - Because it is backed - I get it, I get it, I get it. - [Jeff] And so, if you got yourself an environmental movement why not buy the holy day itself? - [Man] (crowd screaming) Happy Earth Day! Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh You make me want to say Ah, you make me want to say - Now we are facing the that we've seen in my lifetime. It's time now for a new on the stage and create a habitable planet, that we can all enjoy. Are you that generation? (crowd screaming and cheering) I need to thank Building Energy which provided so much solar power to this that we powered the entire (crowd cheering and screaming) - [Jeff] But when I went backstage to see what was really going on. - It ain't running this I can tell you that. For a toaster is 1200 watts. So, that run right there - [Jeff] I found the installer. - Hi. - [Jeff] Are they running the festival on these solar panels? - The concert is run by They didn't ask us to - [Jeff] Oh, okay. - And we'd also like to thank our incredible corporate sponsors have been behind the movement and tackle climate change I want to thank Toyota. (loud roaring engine) Citibank. (clanging bell and cheering) We want to thank Caterpillar. - We're standing at the destruction site of the Dakota Access Pipeline. It looks like there are at least three bulldozers (group yelling and cheering) People have gotten through the fence, the bulldozers are still going (people screaming) and they're marching over the dirt mounds. (loud angry screaming) - [Man In Orange Shirt] Get the fuck off! Get the fuck out of here! - Without these partners, Let's give them a round (crowd cheering and clapping) (slow solemn music) - [Jeff] Now I know this It's a kind of thing that we normally don't (slow solemn music) But by not thinking about it, it stands a good chance of doing us in. (slow solemn music) I truly believe that the path to change comes from awareness. (slow solemn music) That awareness alone can begin (slow solemn music) There is a way out of this. We humans must accept that infinite growth on a finite planet is suicide. We must accept that our human presence is already far beyond sustainability. And all that that implies. (slow solemn music) We must take control of and our future from billionaires and their permanent war on Planet Earth. (slow solemn music) They are not our friends. (slow solemn music) Less must be the new more and instead of climate change, we must at long last accept that it's not the carbon dioxide molecule destroying the planet, (slow solemn music) it's us. (slow solemn music) It's not one thing, but A human-caused apocalypse. If we get ourselves under (slow solemn music) And if we don't. (ominous music) (chainsaw buzzing) (crashing trees) (sad mournful music) (trees crashing) (slow solemn music) (trees scrapping) (orangutan chirping) Ah-Ooh (mournful orchestral music) (music fading) (snapping tree branch) (slow solemn music) (roaring crackling fire) Ah-Ah-Ooh Ooh-Ooh (increasing in intensity) Ah-Ooh (orangutan chirping) (female singing mournfully) (orangutan squealing) - Yeah, yeah, yeah. (low talking) Ah-Ah-Ah Oh-Oh-Ah Oh-Oh-Ah Ooh-Ah Oh-Oh-Oh Ooh (somber music)