So, my recent fascination I'm referring specifically to Church of the Rock, an Evangelical church in Winnipeg. They've got a tradition where every Easter, instead of a standard church service, they put on a little skit of the Easter story by way of a pop culture character, and as the years have passed, these plays have become increasingly elaborate. They're not like a Nativity pageant with all the little kids of the church dressed up as angels and sheep and stuff, they're an adult undertaking, and you see a lot of the same actors so I assume they're high ranking church officials or prominent volunteers. The plays feature musical numbers, usually parodies and obviously, best of all, they all feature a popular children's character dying on the cross for our sins. But don't worry, they'll come back. I have never been to this church and I don't have any personal experience with this kind of elaborate church play, that this isn't the only church However, what sets Church of the Rock apart is that they film their plays. And we're not just talking we're talking a multi-camera, with professional sound in stunning HD. At time of recording, a consistent online archival system I imagine because they're afraid for their use but this past Easter, they did livestream and I watched them all, So let's begin with 2008, Star Trek. (cheerful music) (audience applauding) This is the first production I have access to, but probably not anywhere near I'm just saying that based off, like, the complexity It's probably not even the first production because the camerawork and the editing is already pretty sophisticated. - Damn, Spock, - Like, it's lower resolution, but they're already using multiple camera angles and cutting to other media on the screens, and look at the set they've built, it's crazy. But in many other ways, The energy really drags, there's a smaller cast but there's also The performers are hardcore struggling trying to get the audience to sing along, get on their feet, cheer, anything. - Perhaps if the entire Starfleet The entire Starfleet would stand with us... - Even in productions this early, we've already got live musical performances, which I guess isn't a far leap I think they tend to have, like, Christian rock every week. For the first song here, they've even written custom lyrics, There lived a certain man in the Bible long ago He was sent from God, to the Earth he did go People heard him speak of hope and of love And when he told a story People couldn't get enough Ra ra, let us sing He took our sins and he made the call If you see me using a lot of clips from this song, I just want you to be aware that this musical number lasts over four minutes. One major difference is that the actors these three or four handheld microphones. In every other production, they're upgraded There's not much of a plot to this play, The setup is, the Starfleet's captain and the only way to free him - According to the sacred book, from the lips of children and infants, you have ordained praise - Praise to still an avenger? That would seem highly improbable. - So the characters' mission so each character just takes turns being like, &quot;On my home planet, this is how we praise.&quot; - If you really want to open the heavens, you get yourself a set of bagpipes. - And then they all do musical numbers, like, one after the other. The cast of characters so we get an Easter cabaret - Anyone else? - Sir, this is how we do it from where I come from. Whoa Whoa - And the exceptions to the rule so for the most part, it's kind of just but with an elaborate sci-fi set. I had thought at the beginning when they said the captain that that was the crucifixion But it turned out it wasn't, because at the end of the play, - Finally, I wash my hands of you. (laser firing) (ominous music) (audience applauding) - So that was meant to be the crucifixion. Then the captain is resurrected, and the play ends. - Captain, even for you, coming back from the dead - We're gonna go through these chronologically, so next is 2009, Pirates of the Galilean. The play is about 20 minutes long and tells the tale of Captain Jack Savior. The actor playing him and he's trying to do the voice, but in my opinion, instead of like a 100% accurate it comes off more like a 50% accurate - Surely I say to you, there is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or children for the sake of the kingdom of God who shall not receive many times more in this present time - The star of this production is definitely this insane pirate ship prop. It's huge, the entire thing's on a turntable, it even has functioning cannons. The songs in this one are weak. The first one is this horrible, with lyrics about marching. Giving up on fishing tack, I can tell this is an adaptation where they've just put Captain Jack's name but it must've only been popular in Canada because I don't recognize it at all, The plot of this play is also very rough. Captain Jack Savior is a pirate, so him getting pirates to join his crew is a metaphor for getting them to live a godly life. There's a pirate named Will, and there's a female pirate named Mary who I guess is meant to be like Elizabeth, but she doesn't act - There is an emptiness in my soul and trust me, I've tried everything. (pirates snickering) - [Jenny] She and Will I think it's just a direct cover which I also was not familiar with. I guess I must be the most contrary Hard to get along with person in this world The play gets exciting for me and the reason that that's exciting to me is because I think the mask is really funny. All of his dialogue is prerecorded, so he just waggles his Halloween mask around when he's supposed to be talking. I really like this part where Jack accidentally steps and then the camera cuts - So what now, Jack Savior? Are we to be two immortals - Do you-- - Do you honestly think-- - Captain Jack tells Will, More on that later. - Put it away, Will. Don't you know that he who lives by the sword - Captain Barbosa shows up. They haven't even established but I think they just wrote him in so it's a little cameo. But anyway, it's Barbosa who gives the command - String him up, string him up, string him up! (pirates grunting) (somber music) - Oh no. (thunder booming) - It is finished. - Everyone knows when pirates sailed the seas, their favorite method of execution from the center of their common area, where they all have to look at it and smell it and just be around it as much as possible. The resurrection is really fast. In the very next scene, Jack Sparrow And then the pirates What Will We Do with a Risen Savior. What will we do with a risen savior What will we do with a risen savior What will we do with a risen savior And one lady comes out and starts doing a little Irish jig. It's actually required by law have at least one person - I hope you enjoyed the drama and caught the parallels to the Easter story. - Yeah man, don't worry, I got it. - It is finished! - So the play is over, the pastor comes out, and at the conclusion of the play, - Pirates, of course, do they, with what's happening But you know what? Sure it is. - In my opinion, to the Easter service The greatest sermon in the world especially since the sermon always lasts, like, a leisurely 40 minutes. But no, they always end with the proper sermon. I do think Jack Sparrow although I acknowledge that in the sequel films he does die and get brought back. Man, what if the Bible had a whole chapter were running around Those movies got dumb. Anyway, let's move on to 2010, Robin of the Hood. If the title makes you nervous, This entry to our list is 28 minutes long, I can honestly say in regards to this one that I'm not even exactly sure To me, the title and the set that they've built say that they're going but the soundtrack is entirely Michael Jackson, a singer whom I don't really associate in terms of his image or his career, and the narrator is doing, like, - [Narrator] So this here's the story of Robin, The evil Prince John, he had usurped the power. - Speaking really slow in that accent. - [Narrator] He had vowed to fight him and steal back the souls of the lost. - It's a very long opening narration. And then this guy stomps out, because he's a bad impression of Ace Ventura. - Alrighty then! Let's see if we can corral some souls - Have you ever wanted to watch a youth pastor attempt an impression of a character that was already annoying when Jim Carrey did it? 'Cause if not, in your grand Easter play marathon. I think he's meant to be Prince John, because remember, this is also a Robin Hood story. You probably forgot, He's also a priest, though, He baptizes people in a violent way. All of the other plays to one film or genre, but this one is like the Epic Move of church plays. Our Christ figure is Robin Hood, who in this case is also Michael Jackson. The Sheriff of Nottingham (Prince John snickering) - If it isn't the Sheriff of Naughty Man! Loser! La-hoo, sa-her! - And his joke is just I don't think that's a pop culture reference, but I obviously need to brush up on my pop culture that was extremely dated Wait, actually, I just realized while editing that it plays the instrumental for Bad so I think the fat suit to the music video of Fat, Oh my god. We get like half live cover performances they just play entire, as ambient music for scene transitions and occasionally do dance breaks to them. Robin Hood gets crucified on a fire escape. - What do youse guys say we do with him? - Crucify him! Crucify him! - Then get him, boys! He's all yours! - And this next part is the play's only contribution (melancholy music) You and I must make a pact This is our first appearance would come to call the post-crucifixion lament. It's about to become a staple in all these plays, and it's usually my favorite part. It's always hard to guess It's a total wildcard. I'll be there I'll be there - [Narrator] For three days, his soul descending - After the crucifixion, making him a zombie, and all the dancers come out in shrouds with blacklight skeletons painted on them, It's the joyous kind of zombies. Bonus points for the pyrotechnics when Christ rises out of the dumpster. Overall though, I've got to say, and I think everybody kind of knows it. I already said the church did, like, a retrospective livestream of all the best plays, and this one did not make the cut. I had to get it from somewhere else. 2011 brings us The Princess Bride of Christ. This one runs for 30 minutes, and I was immediately curious to tell an abridged version The film is wonderful, but it really crams a lot in, and it's hard to omit anything It has, like, 75 iconic characters. Right out the gate, I'm giving them props for their strangely accurate Westley casting. Actually, the whole cast in this one looks great. I wonder if that's why even though it wasn't topical in 2011. Like, do you think the preacher was looking out at the congregation &quot;Wait a second, why do we have, like, a weird knockoff The first scene kicks off with the rowboat chase, and then Westley, who is Jesus, and then Vizzini starts walking on water too, and sings Walking on Sunshine. I just can't wait till you write me I'm walking on sunshine - Whoa! - Then when the song ends, Westley is like, &quot;Come on, At the beginning of this scene, but now, now she's with the prince. And then they all run off together, and it's already time This play is really banking on the idea that you've seen the original film, which honestly is maybe not if you have a lot of small kids in the congregation. Like, you know, show them the movie. I'm sure they'll like it, The pope, who's played by the youth counsellor, starts rapping this one song. What's wrong with the world, mama People living like they ain't got no morals I think the whole world's addicted to the drama Westley shows up to save Buttercup None of the songs This one is just a straight-up jukebox musical, which is honestly very disappointing to me, but this production is notable who shuffle onstage every time a song kicks in. Shine up the old brown shoes Put on a brand new shirt Get home early from work to hear you say That you love me Westley tells the prince, - Where's your sword? - He who lives by the sword will die by the sword. - That's why I pointed it out earlier. It's in almost all of these plays. It's not really funny on its own, so I assume it's just an inside joke at this point, because they always include it. I knew as soon as I saw The Princess Bride on the list that the crucifixion and the resurrection with the miracle worker, and I was right. - Ah! Ah! Ah! But I don't fully understand Wasn't it before the wedding in the film? I guess they wanted the resurrection to be, like, the very last thing that happened, and then not have a bunch of play after it. You know, lest they undermine the Easter tale. - So you're this man I keep hearing so much about. Where were you - [Jenny] I should mention he and Buttercup give us The true love of the world is there Inside your mind Westley comes back to life and Inigo Montoya sings Tonight's the night Let's live it up I got my faith Let's spend it up Jump up, that's it Let go, my God Jump off the table Let's kick it up That song was a hit in 2009, so it was kind of relevant so, you know, that's an improvement. Time now to journey to 2012 for The Dark Knight. To bring the DC Universe to the stage, the runtime has now been stretched to 35 minutes. This production is like a bizarre mashup of the Adam West show (dramatic music) Everybody looks like the TV show, Robin is here, there's a corny narrator, because that's all anyone knows how to do when they're doing a Batman impression. - Stop right there, Joker! - They've gone all out with a functioning Batmobile This charming little cardboard car, I love it. And you can see when they made the backdrop they chose to make one of the three buildings the theater where Batman's parents were killed, For our first song, while Batman is parking the Batmobile. - Sorry I was so long, old chum. I was trying to find a parking meter See, I'm Mennonite on my mother's side. - [Jenny] And has a very long nightmare wherein he sings The Devil Went Down to Georgia. The devil went down to Gotham He was looking for a soul to steal He was in a bind 'cause he was way behind And he was willing to make a deal He changes a couple words to Gotham and Robin, but on the whole, and also it's four minutes long. - Hey! (intense violin solo) I guess if we're being honest, they don't try very hard - I may be nothing more than an alley cat, but I feel like a woman. (cool rock music) Let's go, girls. - Batman solves a riddle from the Riddler, which tells him - I will suffer at the hands of the Joker. I will die, but in three days, I will rise again. - And then we get this play's crucifixion. (Joker laughing) - Take him over there! String him up! (laughing) - [Jenny] This one is pretty iconic, because they actually crucify him Incredible. - Holy lost causes, Catwoman. There's no hope now. - [Jenny] And our post-crucifixion lament Strangers waiting Up and down the boulevard There's shadows searching in the night - [Narrator] Could this be it Has he had his bat cooked for the last time? - [Jenny] I love the corny narration over the grim image of Batman hanging on a cross. - [Narrator] Stay tuned, - God is Superman, and the baddies are defeated, 2013 gives us Tombstone. I can't even begin to guess I tried to Google what big budget movies and all I can guess was going to be a bigger hit than it was. I think in this case it was probably less a question of, like, what movies are popular right now, and more like what genre haven't we done yet, and then they just settled on a cowboy play even though, like, nothing that happens in this has that much to do with the movie. Our hero this time is Sundance, and his sidekick is named Butch Chastity, - Say, Sundance, - [Jenny] We also have this character, - Are you talking to me, gringo? - He's intent on taking over the town, and it falls to Sundance to stop him. - I'll come back for you. (whooping) (prop guns popping) - I guess I don't know so maybe in his case, We can only guess. - Welcome to coffin shop! - How much for this one? - Hm, $35. - Okay, I think I can pretty confidently say - You don't get for 34.50. Our price gone up maybe $40. - Oh my god, it gets worse the longer he's here. And think, who looked like anything. I don't recall any character like this so they must've just had a guy and thought it would be a real knee-slapper to integrate it into the play. - That's one whole dollar. You go to the dollar store, you buy something else. - Wait a second, is that the pastor? I'm not that good with faces, but that looks - Okay, you look like a nice man. - Please, someone set me straight on this. I don't want to make any undue allegations, but... But it's in front of my eyes. Okay, I'm gonna find and put it side by side with these clips so you can help me identify - Every year, we get subjected and for some reason, I think, I don't know, - I sell you $30 today, - Give me your opinions in the comments below. So now, back to the play, it's time for a showdown - Are you ready, Sundance? - Annie? Butch? - Alright, fellas. Let's go! - We get a barfight set to Ballroom Blitz. This woman is bringing down the house. I don't think I've seen her and that's a real shame, The actors reveal the set is climbable, and they do a little stunt, which here is just him getting killed in a shootout and put in a coffin with a cross on it. Kind of weak, Whoa Heaven, let your light shine down Whoa But it's okay. Sundance is resurrected, (cowboys singing indistinctly With original lyrics, hey hey. And he died so you and I can live, - Everybody, let's stand to our feet together! - Oh, who's that dancing in the back? Oh. And that's a wrap on Tombstone. I must say, Fortunately, the next production 2014, Rock Star Wars. This is a 36 minute production, of higher effort and longer runtimes We're off to a strong start. Luke comes in with an electric guitar and starts singing Spaceship Superstar, Every night is a different flight But it's a real song, I think it's just a tone setter, because he just comes out and does the song The set is pretty simple. Like, it's cool looking, The real effort They roll out this big cardboard Sandcrawler, and look at R2-D2! C-3PO's not too shabby himself. - You are the Luke, the son of the Jedi Master. - Very good, C-3PO, - Of course not, Master Luke. - If I could direct a Star Wars trilogy, I'd have all the droids looking like this, just all the astromechs look handmade and all the humanoid ones Their Yoda is also a big highlight for me. He's played by two puppeteers moving his hands and his feet independently, and looks like such a scary little monster, I love it. Oh, I also want to leave in this one Luke line because it got a big laugh - I'm gonna be traveling to the Altona sector, and I'm going to need a translation droid. Do you speak Low German? - Of course I can, sir. - I don't know, is this Evangelical humor? More information requested This play actually had than its predecessors, Like, what else am I watching Like, I don't think it's as much of a novelty to just have a bunch of people onstage from the actual films Don't get me wrong, but I think clumsily integrating - I shall demonstrate the power of the Death Star - No! Altona is a peaceful planet. They have no weapons. They are pacifists. They were conscientious objectors - Just a little biblical Star Wars humor As far as the secular humor, they've done this thing all the character names - I've been sent on a very special mission - Only one cannoli? Nobody can eat only one cannoli. They're delicious. - Luke Moonwalker, Like, what's the point? It's like that Twitter humor of, like, instead of Benedict Cumberbatch, you're like, Bandersnatch Crumplecrumpet. That's not funny. Let's leave that behind. Like, all the way back in 2018. We'll just agree that we're done with that. It's over. It's like saying doggo. We as a society, we don't need that anymore. The most painful joke by far comes at us from the youth pastor who's playing Han Solo. He inexplicably does that, &quot;Look at your man, now look at me,&quot; joke from those old Old Spice ads. Actually, is it Old Spice? - Look at your man. Now back to me. Now back at your man. Now back to me. Look down. Back up. Where are you? You're on a boat. - [Jenny] You probably remember them. It's those commercials and there are a lot of, like, In this one, it's a play, but he still inexplicably recites - Well, Leia, look at him. Now back at him. Sadly, he isn't me, and switched to Wookie juice, - That's the joke, just a man standing there, like, staring at us reciting an entire old commercial. - Look down. Back up. You're on a spaceship What's in your hand? Back at me. I have it. It's a moon rock Look again. The tickets are now asteroids. Anything is possible when your man smells like me. (audience cheering) - And the crowd goes wild. Musically, I would say this production is one of the most egregious cases that don't really make any sense to change the lyrics, Leia sings that song I hate called Happy to tell Darth Vader Clap along if you know what happiness is to you Clap along if you feel It's not relevant that I hate the song. Han Solo sings a painful cover of The Joker. I'm a disaster, I got my blaster I'm a poor youth pastor I get my love in all the wrong Leia says she doesn't understand and then they sing a parody of What Does the Fox Say, which was a year old meme What does the Wook say Ring-ding-ding-ding-dingeringeding Ring-ding-ding-ding-dingeringeding It's not funny in the way but I do personally think completely blowing out his mic What the Wook say Wa-pa-pa-pa-pa-pa-pow Wa-pa-pa-pa-pa-pa-pow The crucifixion in this one is confusing. Like, as soon as I knew it was this topic, I'm obviously trying to think and this one I was like, okay, and then the crucifixion will be carbonite, even though Han doesn't make But no, it is Luke. Luke is Jesus. - Get thee behind me, Vader. I will never join you. - I am your father. - No, you are a liar and the father of all lies. - But then they do also do carbonite, so it's just Luke that gets frozen in carbonite. - Don't worry, Leia. I have a plan. - [Leia] No! (Chewbacca roaring) - And for this play, Ground control to Master Luke Commencing countdown, engines on And then right after they're done lamenting, Luke just busts out of the carbonite and he's back to life, and then they all sing but fortunately this song Lately I've been, I've been praying hard He said let your light shine brighter Brighter, brighter than the stars And, of course, we get a painful rap breakdown They will come to you That's why it's Christ in my rhymes That's why it's Christ all the time See, my whole world revolves around him He's the light of my life I just assume that clumsy rapping is a prerequisite skill for any youth pastor. It's kind of cool that this production predates the Star Wars sequel trilogy. The pastor actually mentions it in his sermon, - And then they immediately announced that they're doing three more movies, episode seven, eight, and nine. You know what that means? That means will be watching Star Wars just like we did. - I wonder what his sequel trilogy hot takes Can he do a sermon that's just that? Next up is 2015's Back From the Future. I'm going to have real trouble I was pretty excited about it, because as far as the Christ narrative goes, it's probably the most unlikely candidate. I predicted incorrectly was going to be the scene with Doc and then they reveal that he's okay so that's kind of like a resurrection, in a way. But no, I was wrong. This play It's 40 minutes long, are going to stay around this runtime, Honestly, we'll just start getting, like, full, Broadway quality, In this iteration of the story, our characters live in Hell Valley Marty's mom mentions everything became evil and unsafe, so I think the name is just meant to reflect that this is a corrupt town But then also they say running around eating people. - Last week, little Aubrey Crohn missed the bus, and he was eaten by a zombie. - And there's a sight gag so I don't know, is this, like, I don't get it at all. But anyway, what makes Marty a Christ figure is he will use time travel to redeem the world. - Business is booming in all my casinos. At every corner, I've got a tavern or a bar. - And talking Prime Minister Justin Trudeau - I love everyone's punk outfits. I love when theater kids have to try to dress as their idea of hardcore. In this case, it came out oddly steampunk. Doc comes in - Welcome to my latest experiment! This is the big one, - [Jenny] And then we get to see Look at this thing! You can see and it looks so good. It drives. - We've got to get going! - Everyone in the audience gasps and I'm like, yeah, me too. The whole time travel effect is extremely cool. I think this is the first year they've had this big LED wall It's at least the first year So they use the backdrop and have done a pretty good job at tracking them to the motion of the car. Initially, Doc and Marty which doesn't make sense to reuse costumes from the Star Trek production. It also gives us our cameo from the pastor. When they get to the past, in which they just steal an entire exchange from Guardians of the Galaxy for some reason. - Why would I run my finger across your throat? - It's just a metaphor. - Don't you call me a metaphor. - I think it went over his head. - Listen, old man, nothing goes over my head. My reflexes are too fast. - [Jenny] We also learn and she has a crush on him, so, strange to retain that for the church play. - I've never seen anyone I wonder if he has a girlfriend. - I had thought that they changed because it sounds a little closer to Jesus, they actually just changed it sing Jesse's Girl about how she wants to date him. I wish that I was Jesse's girl I want to be Jesse's girl Also notable that in this adaptation of the story, the mom incest subplot Anyway, let's look at our music selection. Biff sings Highway to Hell and kind of crushes it. No stop signs Speed limit Ain't nothing gonna slow me down Marty and Doc sing Back in Time, from the movie, so not a very inspired choice, and does some live riffs, (cool saxophone music) Marty also sings The Power of Love. Biff and Marty do a dance-off just does the entire dance I'll never understand people if you just put jokes Like, do they think the fact different characters are doing it No, it's just the same joke! And clearly they're unashamed to languish in entire jokes spanning multiple minutes. I feel like by this point in the story, Doc and Marty but suddenly Doc is like, Because that's just the point and then we get the famous clocktower scene, and I don't know if I can even explain it, Like, the first time I watched this, I cried. - Okay, Doc. - Alright, time circuits on. - We're ready! We're ready, Doc! (somber music) (audience applauding) - This was my favorite crucifixion because you truly don't think at least not literally, has really led up to it, Like, for a minute, I forgot, and I felt like I was watching and then suddenly, a twist crucifixion! I wish all movies Like, after 90 secular minutes, suddenly a character strikes a crucifixion pose and dramatic score plays After this, we get a similarly amazing with Doc Brown singing I'm waking up to ass and dust I wipe my brow and I sweat my rust I'm breathing in the chemicals - Ah. - [Jenny] Then, in the very next scene, Marty reveals he's alive and well, he's wearing an angelic, and they all sing with a ton of lyric changes, This man was ice cold Placed in the tomb to save your soul This son, for them hood girls The whole world, straight masterpieces Teaching about sin Forgiving the lost in the city Got nailed on the cross at dawn But now he's back and he's living So yeah, honestly, unexpected hit. 2016 brings us Raider of the Lost Ark. In this play, the Jones family but when they find the idols, they destroy them, because idolatry is not good. - I've come from traveling the face of the Earth, tearing down the idols - We follow Indy on an adventure This one is probably to date, which is quite a distinction. - No! - We've got the marketplace scene the violent natives, these backup dancers doing every kind of stereotypically ethnic dance move In the original film, the bad guys are Nazis, so here we've got a lot of singing, dancing Nazis. I mean, they're not, like, the heroes. They're depicted as comedy buffoons. But still, a lot for a church play. - You can assure the Fuhrer I have my very best men working on it as we speak. Isn't that right, Sergeant Schultz? - I know nothing! - I find this inclusion especially strange considering that the villains in this story could've just been rival explorers or something. This isn't like a real movie, can have cascading consequences. These are the thinnest plots imaginable. You could change or remove any scene so every scene that does appear, they must've really loved it to put it forward. The set design for this one but there are a few highlights. The use this turntable which makes me wonder, like, we saw a turntable in the Pirates production. I guess I thought they, like, rented an industrial size turntable somehow, but now I'm like, In which case, I wonder if, like, before every service, the pastor goes like this and then they play The Final Countdown and stage fog is rolling in. If they don't do that, they should. I also like in this scene how they've thrown - Snakes. I hate snakes. - [Jenny] And there's this iconic moment where there's a single table of wares and Indy very gingerly tips it over. - This place used to be honorable, but you've turned it into a den of thieves! (props clattering) Ah! (whip cracking) - [Jenny] For musical numbers, we've got Indy and Sallah singing Eye of the Tiger, which we're told And he's watching us all With the eye of the tiger (Indy laughing) The Nazi general inexplicably sings Numa Numa. Ma-ia-hii Ma-ia-huu Ma-ia-hoo Ma-ia-haha The Numa Numa video went viral in 2006, making it a decade old reference My colors fade to gray Little lover, stay, or all my colors fade away When every word of love I used to say Now I paint them every day Maybe they were celebrating its anniversary. In the temple, The blonde waitresses take their trays They spin around and they cross the floor They've got the moves, oh hey oh You drop your drink, then they bring you more And no, they didn't change I was wondering if they would, but they did not. The crucifixion in this one - Proceed. - Ah! Ah! - And tying him up in a crucifixion pose in the tomb, where they leave him to die. So look at that, That's kind of cool. Our post-crucifixion lament Even though she did this to Indy, and she sings Rolling in the Deep by Adele. There's a fire starting in my heart Reaching a fever pitch, I don't know anything about this woman, but my headcanon is that she's, like, because she gets a ton of prominent roles in these, and she specifically gets to sing a lot of the post-crucifixion laments, For the record, she's my favorite performer. It's not a competition, We could've had it all Rolling in the deep Next scene, Indy's out of the tomb, and everyone starts singing the Party Rock Anthem with original lyrics, incredible. Wait, who's that coming forward Oh no. Every day I'm living, Christ is more than everything you'll ever try Better than pretty women and sinning and living To get a minute It ain't no lie, we're created for him I like this one very brief shot and they're just, like, sitting motionless, and it also reveals that these plays have been utilizing Actually, that explains a lot. in 2017, we get The Quest for the Holy Grail. Okay, allow me to deeply upset many people. I have not seen By the time I was born, which means I had already been subjected to a lot of people quoting the hilarious parts to me, usually in horrible cockney accents. So that was a really strong deterrent for me, but fans of the film can take comfort in the fact that I'm watching this Easter play now, which I'll just confidently say There, everyone will love that. I was very surprised and he's like a mean comedy god. - Oh, don't grovel. - Sorry, Lord. - [Jenny] I assume but I would have just expected a church - I love quail. - It's grail, you knucklehead, not quail. - There are so many bad jokes in this one, but I'm really afraid that I'll be like, And then I'll get &quot;Um, actually, And, like, that won't make me but it will make people mad at me. They sing We Will Rock You for no reason. The guy with the comedic French accent Please don't talk about love tonight Please don't talk about sweet love I'm pretty sure this entire scene - You don't frighten us, English pig dogs. Go boil your bottom, sons of a silly person. I blow my nose at you, so-called Arthur king. - [Jenny] But you guys need to let me know whether the original Monty Python film contains this extremely dark scene saving an adulterer from being stoned to death, and then she sings Holding Out for a Hero. Sweep me off my feet I need a hero I'm holding out for a hero They do that scene and goes, &quot;'Tis a mere scratch!&quot; But it's elevated to anti-humor come out onstage, and he's so visibly a guy in a big, bulky, homemade puppet suit They really gave him Like, whoa, This is the first of these plays and during that scene, they do an excruciating bit where a guy recites - Hey, hey, watch this. You'll be saying wow every time. It's like a towel. It's like a sponge. A regular towel doesn't work wet. - It goes on so long. I have a lot of contempt for people is just, like, but it's on another level when they're just reciting a vaguely comedic ad. Instead of a post-crucifixion lament, we get a pre-crucifixion lament, And I'm the only one Who walked across the fire for you They have Mary and they do it by having her pull her whole wig off, so I thought that was cute. An original joke, probably. I'm assuming When the crucifixion comes around, we also get a mid-crucifixion lament I can't. The theater kid energy Goodbye, everybody I've got to go Got to leave you all behind and face the truth The crucifixion is confusing to me. I get that they're executing him, He does a crucifixion pose, is supposed to close and function as his tomb, but it keeps raising and lowering I think it was just the prop malfunctioning, but, like, maybe it was supposed to be eating him. Like, who knows? (drawbridge clunking) - He's alive! Everybody dance now - Okay, let's move on. 2018 brings us The Avenger. Now we're getting into the big leagues. Most of the previous productions on the part of the older members of the church, because it's a lot of nostalgic 80s fare. By 2018, it definitely seems over the decisions, that are, like, current, So here we see a beautiful culmination of everything we've been working toward. Now we have a topical concept, we have the higher production value. Higher ground, Thunder The set of this one is pretty simple. They've just used the big LED screen I assume this is a street view of Winnipeg, and they've Photoshopped a shawarma truck there. But we've got some wonderful costumes Look at this wirework. And using the LED screen I do love that he's descending while the audience is meant to applaud, and there's just no mic but it just comes across on the recording as dead silent as he slowly floats down. Whenever these productions I can't help but wonder if they've, like, hired a stunt safety coordinator, because it kind of seems up in the rafters - I need you to reach back there and unhook this new experimental Arc Reactor. - Oh. - In the interest of fairness to the other plays, I do have to point out that this one has, like, some of the worst jokes so far, and they just go on for like a really long time. - It's the first rule of being a superhero, It's like that Crash Test Dummies song. Superman never made any money For saving the world from Solomon Grundy - Yeah, yeah. - [Jenny] Like, the DC heroes are there too, and a character remarks - On that day, many will say, did we not perform mighty works in your name? And I will say, depart from me, for I never knew you, for this is the Marvel universe, not DC. - [Jenny] Captain America is Captain Canuck and makes a bunch of Canadian in jokes. - Like, take off, eh? It's just with that hockey hair, I thought for sure you were a sidekick. Maybe you should wear a toque or something. - Black Widow has brown hair for some reason. I'm not saying that's intended to be an in joke, I'm just saying I don't know I think it's interesting that Thor is called the son of thunder - Are you the son of hammers, (cool rock music) - The son of thunder but I think the reason they did it a character called a god in their Easter play. That's my conspiracy theory. But then again, they did have that God joke in the Monty Python one, so I might be wrong. Also, they do mess up once and call him a demigod. - We've got your brother, the demigod. - Which, the implications of that but I think that was just, like, an accident. I definitely would've predicted would be our Christ figure and he dies, he sacrifices himself but no, they just picked Iron Man And yes, the actor is doing - Seriously? - You have no idea who you're dealing with. - Uh, Shakespeare in the Park? - [Jenny] Story-wise, because the premise of an Avengers church play I got bills I got to pay So I'm gonna work, work, work every day But really, the first half and the second half is just Loki showing up and being like, &quot;Okay, time to fight.&quot; There's honestly very little effort put into making this an Easter tale at all. I love the performance of Loki. He sings Call Me Maybe, This play is giving me everything I want. The scepter I'm holding Waiting for the door to open Then I'm gonna call my army Hey, I just met you, and this is crazy But I'm from Asgard, my name is Loki And all the humans don't obey me But I am a god, so kneel before me That lady I'm calling the choir director and has multiple songs, than the actual Pepper got in any movie. - Faults? Well, that would be Let me try this. Hold that for me. (cool rock music) - I don't mind, though, because she's the best. I do take issue with some of the other casting. It's especially noticeable in this play because they'll do whole dialogue scenes from the films, - Loki is beyond reason, but he is still of Asgard, and he is my brother. - He's killed millions of people. - He's adopted. - I think this play to find out that this is Chris Pratt's church. Like, the whole cast is in Halloween costumes, and then Starlord comes out. He's played by Chris Pratt, The Avengers fight Loki and Ultron, but Iron Man is caught and crucified. - Seize him! String him up! You know, Iron Man, I may have missed the point, but I'm sure you'll get the hang of it. (laughs) - Okay, I know I said but actually, After all, this is a musical crucifixion. It's the end of the world as we know it It's the end of the world as we know it It's the end of the world as we know it I feel fine I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down The passion, the mashup, the steel girder, the winch yanking Iron Man I feel fine (Iron Man groaning) (Loki laughing) Pepper, of course, I'll reach out my hand to you I'll have faith in all you do Actually, I guess this one That man is fully conscious. Makes it a little more awkward, in my opinion. Keen-eared viewers will notice and that they've already done that one before. I'll be there I'll be there Was this a power play? Was she trying to prove I'll be there I'll be there Whenever you need me, I'll be there You've got nothing to prove, Pepper. - Is he moving? How is this possible? - I am Iron Man. (cheerful music) - [Jenny] As soon as she's done singing, and then all the Avengers Lose your blues Everybody cut footloose A masterpiece. 2019's production is Joy Story. I was so excited for this one, It's Easter Toy Story, sure. Look at that set, look at those costumes. Wait, why is Mr. Potato Head wearing a blond wig? Potato Head doesn't even have hair. - A new toy should be arriving any minute! - Why don't we built a wall? You know, we've enjoyed almost a decade of people confidently thinking I'm sure we've all heard a lot of them, and of the ones I've heard, Sometimes it sounds like he's trying to do - That little lady gem is my wife. Who are you calling a sweet potato? - I mean, this church is in Canada. Mrs. Potato Head she's just a normal Mrs. Potato Head, another weird element to this thing. On the whole, throughout this story, Potato Head totally drops the Trump voice and adopts a country Western accent which I've never heard before. - And they all called me Bud the Spud. (cheerful music) I'm Bud the spud from the bright red mud Going down the highway smiling - Probably some hit song for you freaks in Canada. In my opinion, he can at least struggle through it He owes me that much. The spuds are big on the back of my rig And they're from Prince Edward Island They're from Prince Edward Island Joy Story also has my least favorite pastor cameo. I won't say worst. - No! - But, you know, my least favorite. He plays Ken, and Barbie is way younger than him, and he keeps flexing, - And I do arms on Thursdays, so I'm definitely doing biceps - Oh wow, Ken, they're enormous! - And yes, I concede that he is remarkably buff for a pastor in his 60s, I also just in general don't know what he's going for with this performance. - Well, hi guys. - [Jenny] It doesn't sound like Ken. It doesn't sound - And I, you know, got to change. I can't go out dressed like this. - We get the worst cover of Barbie Girl although we're graced The faux cars always elevate these productions. I'm a Barbie girl in a Barbie world Life in plastic, it's fantastic Also, in case you're wondering, they changed the word bimbo to disco, and took out the lyric and replaced it with a line about driving her car. You're my doll, rock and roll All this glamor and pink Take me here, take me there, holy moly I feel like so far and no, it's actually one of my favorites. Like, I said at the beginning I liked the costumes, and I like them so much Any wide shot when you see and the full lineup of everybody you just can't help but love what you're seeing. This one also has an ambitious plot. That's what I'm calling it. You'll have to decide for yourself In this story, God is Andy, but still, a lot to contemplate there. - Sure, we're all different, - Andy? I've never seen Andy, not even once. I'm starting to think and we're all caught up in some grand illusion. - [Jenny] At first they had me thinking this was going to be a very coherent play, because the whole first scene is just like a replica of the first Toy Story film. - To infinity and beyond! - So I thought Initially, the only real difference from the sequels were there and had 800 lines of dialogue, but quickly, it becomes a mashup of Toy Stories one and three. Buzz arrives and Woody hates him. Traveling at the speed of light I want to make a supersonic man out of you But we also get this dystopian tidbit from Woody about how every time a new toy shows up, an existing toy gets donated to daycare, which in this play is an allegory for death. - As I said before, every time a new toy comes, an old toy gets donated to daycare, and there are two daycares, - Unlike in Toy Story 3, one which is explicitly heaven, So apparently they live in this scary universe an immediate death must follow. Meanwhile, Lots-o'-Huggin' Bear is totally different from his film role. He's like a hippy atheist, trying to spread his poisonous ideology - Nobody owns us. We own ourselves. We're masters of our own fate. All this talk you hear, that when we leave this room we will either end up it's all baloney. This room is all there is, and the love we have for one another - You know, he makes a good point. (cheerful music) - [Jenny] This play isn't really divided because it's just the same characters in the same setting the whole time, but for what feels like roughly 3 1/2 scenes, the characters just kind of have about whether living for the promise of Andy sending you to heaven is enough or whether you should seek - This is all there is, what you see around you. What is important for us is that we just enjoy ourselves every day we have. All this fretting about what happens is an exercise in futility. - As an audience, surely you're asking, how will such philosophical questions in this 40 minute Easter play? But then, a slip of the tongue! - We had the very same problem - Sector Four? Wait a minute! - [Jenny] And Lots-o'-Huggin' Bear reveals that he's actually the evil Emperor Zurg! So in the canon of this play, who kills Jesus by shooting him with a bazooka. - It is finished. - [Jenny] It's a disappointing crucifixion, I really wanted to see My favorite performer comes out to bless us with another post-crucifixion lament, I'm fired up and tired The way that things have been, oh, ooh From a character perspective, I don't know why this lament I guess they all join in, anyway. All these toys singing Hey, you made me a, In the very next scene, He comes in on a zipline, if there are any safety regulations Look, he doesn't even have brakes. He has to kick the plywood dresser to stop. They kill Satan Lotso and all celebrate by singing that song from the Trolls movie, and they kind of change they lyrics. And if you want it Inside your soul Just open up your heart, let Jesus take control This one was musically kind of unexciting, but it had plenty of bright spots. Overall it's definitely in my top three a perfect showcase of the way these productions have evolved over the years. There were no productions in 2020 or 2021, suggesting that the church to gather in person which, you know, is nice, 2022, The Lion King of Judah. There's so much to love about this one, but the most immediately apparent The horrifying Morphsuits, the way they put vests over most of them because they'd look too naked without them, and the star of the show, Toucan Sam Zazu. The hyenas are just straight-up unaltered Spirit Halloween werewolf costumes, and they didn't just use the masks, they retained This play is a standout because we get a lead actor other than the youth pastor or the blond guy with the extremely strong Canadian accent. Our Simba performer popped up in a few prior plays as supporting roles, You can always spot her because she breathes - And I am a superhero. Hey, has anyone seen Ken and Barbie? Ah, it's great to see you again, Sallah. Why isn't it our kingdom? - [Jenny] The delicate way she yells, &quot;Oh no!&quot; when she almost falls off Pride Rock kills me. - Oh no! Man, they get Pride Rock higher every year. - As in Joy Story, and starts out more or less with multiple scenes The first song is I Just Can't Wait to Be King, and immediately, would just be all the songs from The Lion King, which to me would be a really boring adaptation. I needn't have worried, and it's weirdly played for comedy - Aim for the bushes! Ooh, so close! Dad? - And then Scar hits us with this. - Run away and never return Ah. Finally. My time has come. (laughs) Ah, do you know where you are? You're in the jungle, baby. (roars) - [Jenny] I love our Scar actor. He's the clear breakout star of this one. - I shall never be king, and you shall never see the light of another day! - Timon and Pumbaa fulfill They represent the temptation rather than return and serve his people as king. Timon does have a weirdly specific line where he's, like, listing all of his vices, all of the ways that he's lazy and hedonist, and he specifically mentions so I guess those have some kind of moral quality - We're living the dream here! No taxes, mortgage, no wife or kids. All the bugs, beetles, - Oh, also, I think this Timon voice is good, but I don't know if that's a hard voice to do. You know how every man secretly has a Kermit the Frog impression Do you also all have a Timon voice waiting for you to be cast in an Easter play? Together, Timon and Pumbaa and it's hard to overstate how unprepared either of these actors were to tackle this song. In the jungle, the mighty jungle, In the village, the peaceful village, In my opinion, that's a weird problem because they're choosing They didn't have to sing this one. They could've sang any song in the world, And then, as soon as that song's done, they immediately follow it with Hakuna Matata. They do a much better job with that one, but I'm mostly floored containing two full length musical numbers, and in this adaptation, They sing the whole song, &quot;Hm, well, I disagree. - I just feel like I was born - Well, I guess that works too. - So yes, they omitted the entire iconic scene where Simba talks and has a change of heart. I would've thought in a production where Mufasa - Mufasa? - No, it's me, Simba. - Back on Pride Rock, Simba confronts Scar, and I'm at least treated - Get thee behind me, Scar. Lions should not live on meat alone, but upon the word of truth and justice. - [Jenny] And then Simba and Scar How do you like his image How do you like his style How do you like the way he looks Before you get too caught up in this song about how great Simba is doing, it's important to remember so Simba is destined - Let's hang this kitty by its paws - And, of course, it's time for another post-crucifixion lament Yes, it's the same woman. I told you, she's doing all of these now, and even better, it's another Adele cover. Never mind, I'll find someone like you I wish nothing but the best for you, too Bonus points for Timon and Pumbaa somberly placing Simba in the tomb. And of course, - Simba is alive. - I hate to tell you this, but there is no way Simba is getting out of this one. - What? I don't believe it! I thought you were dead! - I was dead, but I have risen, - [Jenny] The characters all celebrate, singing and dancing Tsamina mina, eh eh Waka waka, eh eh Tsamina mina zangalewa This time for Africa I do have a bone to pick with the sermon at the end. I mean, I didn't watch it, for all his sermons that he's wearing I was really looking forward in which this guy is wearing but he totally copped out this year Weak! So, those are all the plays I wish there were more. Having seen them all, actually makes At least it is if the Christ figure is the protagonist, which he always is. But every single play, and then right away, the Jesus guy It felt so anticlimactic. The protagonist's greatest triumph We don't even get to see the characters' response But then I remember they can't help it, Like, this is what they've got. So I don't know, in the future, that have It'll be kind of weird if it's not a well known story that's associated with a major holiday, and admittedly, like the cast of Finding Nemo, it delivers a more satisfying If you can find these online, especially in like a watch party setting. You can make themed snacks. And I discourage you from harassing the church, emailing the church Or narcing on the church by emailing the copyright holders Honestly, I really like sharing from weird corners of the internet, somebody comes along just because they want attention or something. I, for one, hope to see next year's production, so thank you in advance And for all the rest of you, Please, no matter your faith, pray that in 2023, the Church of the Rock will do an Easter play based on James Cameron's Avatar. The sequel will have just come out, Jake Sully can die on the cross and then be resurrected into his avatar body. They can make a stunning ikran puppet and that'll be like the main set piece. Maybe a mech suit for the evil general guy? And of course we'll have and she'll sing the post-crucifixion lament, Easy on Me from Adele's newest album. I've got it all figured out, so pray hard. (Loki laughing) It's the end of the world as we know it It's the end of the world as we know it It's the end of the world as we know it I feel fine I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down It's the end of the world as we know it It's the end of the world as we know it, and I feel fine I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down I get knocked down, but I get up again It's the end of the world as we know it Never gonna keep me down It's the end of the world as we know it I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down It's the end of the world as we know it I get knocked down, but I get up again Never gonna keep me down I feel fine I get knocked down I feel fine (Iron Man groaning) (Loki laughing) (thunder booming) If I was in a betting pool, would actually be Jurassic Park. I haven't worked out I guess just Alan, The three backup dancers they always have would be wearing velociraptor masks, and then Satan, the bad guy, in one of those inflatable T-Rex suits that went viral, like, at least five years ago, which kind of matches up and that one lady would be Ellie, would be that one Diana Ross song That's my prediction. It's topical. It's not what I want. Give me Avatar.