Underneath the barrel, all of those parts, have to work together What we're after is a finished weapon We are part of the NRA. We fight for your rights. We become part of those groups. We would like to assist in the fight Everybody here sends in their memberships and then they try to get or try to stop the anti-weapon bills. Shoot it! You've got to pick your colors, we can help you get exactly what you want We just did one You don't have anybody so the NRA is supposed 911, what is your emergency? There's a shooter. Okay, is anybody injured? Yes, there's a lot of blood, We're already sending the paramedics. Are you talking in a safe location? I don't know, but I'm at the school. On February 14th, 2018, a 19-year-old student entered armed with an illegally Oh, my God! The killer massacred 17 people, As you can see, it has been a challenging George is on the scene in Florida, shocked by devastating violence. The most disturbing aspect is that recent data shows is only increasing over time. The students who survived the massacre and start a much bigger fight In the United States, on average one per day. At Parkland, For the past year, all eyes have been The National Rifle Association's main aim is to defend the total right of citizens To stop a bad guy with a gun, The National Rifle Association is one of the most powerful It has a simple message. &quot;We have a constitutional right and nobody can take that away from us.&quot; The NRA weaves its web of influence to the White House. If you had a teacher it could end the attack very quickly. The lobby seems untouchable and unbending. Its resources are unlimited, and its supporters are resolute. There are over five million members They've gained more and more power. A lot of the power is financial because they can support In Washington, we are the voice We are the voice of the Second Amendment. It's almost part of the American DNA. When you tell people and that you will abolish then good luck with that. How has the NRA managed Who are these Americans willing Since the Parkland massacre, war has been declared and the young survivors Any staff or politician shame on you. The NRA has taken up arms Students from Parkland came out in force that we have never seen before. They marched to Washington They're going up against history that hasn't been They're going up against a dedicated group that have fought this battle before. As tragic as it is, the kids that are coming out of Parkland The NRA has been fighting, and gun rights advocates To the west of Colorado, sits a small town out of the Wild West. The town of Rifle is aptly named. Here, amid rows of perfectly stands a rather unusual place of pro-gun, rural America. A saloon, almost. The aptly named Shooter Grill restaurant, whose theme is openly displayed &quot;Guns are welcome on the premises.&quot; This is pretty new. I've had this gun for maybe two months. I carried my 43 for quite a while. I really like that one, I like that. I know how to land it, Thirty-two-year-old Lauren Boebert I'll give you the Hunter Burger. There you go, sir. Like all the waitresses, she has a nine-millimeter slung around her waist. In a restaurant where John Wayne and Jesus is surrounded by bullets, nothing is surprising. Shooter's Grill My waitstaff and I carry firearms to work. They are loaded and are real. We all practice and train. We are efficient with our firearms. We practice safety with them. This is our menu, We have all-Rifle burgers as a tribute We have the Guac Nine, and I carry a Glock 26. What do you want, Christy? I think that it's good for more people This is the safest restaurant Everyone is always ready and nothing ever has. There you go. -Thank you. Colorado is one of the 32 US states be it an ordinary pistol in keeping Ten, awesome. To stop a bad guy with a gun, The criminals have free range. They know you have nothing They can go in and try and you won't shoot back and you are obeying the government They know they can go in They could go in and take it because no one is stopping them. Here in Rifle, Colorado, For Lauren, firearms are a way to protect her, She wears her gun at home all the time and has about 20 others This right is conferred on her and ardently defended by the NRA, an organization This snake is so cool. We drew it first, and we painted it. I like that The NRA wants us to know They want us to know what gun control topic and they want to let us know Along with Lauren, more than five million people are members of the NRA. In just a few years, There is more money, more activists, with no compromises and no restrictions. Yet when it was founded in 1871, the NRA was just a hunting founded by a couple For a century, its objectives were to promote and defending hunters. The National Rifle Association, is the oldest national organization Everything changed in the 1960s. The NRA became a powerful political lobby The organization was politicized by a series of violent and deadly events. Now, Robert Kennedy Soon after the death this tragedy to legislate One of the most important changes was, with all of the violence in our society and with the assassinations and Robert Kennedy in 1968, President Johnson began Many Americans, became very worried because they were afraid they would be unprotected. In particular, they were afraid -It's hard to pick up the guns. -It's hard to pick up the guns. Effective crime control remains, in my judgment, effective gun control. The NRA felt the winds of change. There was a small group that believed that gun rights and there were these conversations They decided to rise within the NRA and effectively It went from a moderate, to a very staunch 100% focused on the idea of ensuring that the right would not be curtailed at all. To legitimize its struggle, the NRA cited the famous Second Amendment Written in 1787 by the Founding Fathers, We believe in our country, we believe in our Bill of Rights, and we believe in our Second Amendment all of our Second Amendment. It's because we believe and that it and it alone guarantees absolutely The Second Amendment says, &quot;A well-regulated militia&quot; &quot;being necessary &quot;the right of the people &quot;shall not be infringed.&quot; There's a lot of debate Does it mean people to ensure that the government or does it mean everyone has the right no matter where they are? There are two insights. The existence of the amendment shows that the founders assumed The second is that they assumed because it does not say You can have free speech all the time. It does not say in a way we say you have a right They did expect What we argue over in our society is: Hey, Hollers, the British are coming! Grab your guns, boys, and come running. What I think sometimes people miss the right to bear arms were muskets. They were weapons that, you could get off three shots in a minute At that time, because there were no weapons -What do we want? We start in Virginia, where hundreds demonstrated Protesters blame for helping to block gun control laws. This is one of several gun reform rallies over the past few months. They say the youth movement For the high school students the road to reform is a long one. The NRA and its members are a tough bunch, I painted it myself. At 19 years old, Tyra Hammons where 17 of her classmates We're in front because that's where they all stay because if they had balls, They're cowards. Our fight is the winning fight and too much blood has been shed. When we say enough is enough, We are tired of so many children look at their surroundings, and ask, It's not fair. Hold it. In this state, in this particular state, This is as long as I'm not a criminal, People are beaten to death and killed with something like this. I would be more worried about that I'm minding my own business. I'm so sorry. Does any body want this? They don't want my flowers. They want their guns, It will be long, but it's just about making sure It's to make sure and what we're fighting for and more kids can grow up instead of fearing a bully. In a country where more than one some will dismiss In the United States, more than 300 million firearms That's half of all civilian weapons Alan lives in the Colorado mountains, and he's not about He's a member of the NRA and likes nothing more Let's put the dot on, so I can hit some. That's me doubling the gun. Now, if I put it on full auto, let's make sure Now the gun's empty. It's the same thing, you'll pull it. The mag release is the same It's empty, and that gun's clear. I grew up in a household where, if I was a good kid and I did what my parents asked me to do, I would get incented by them to shoot my 22-caliber rifle. Honestly, the main thing I worry about my family, or my friends. Do I have the ability to protect myself It's because, unfortunately, as you know, wherever we are, even if we're in France, All right, we're out. Every morning, to hone his shooting position, adjust his aim, and test new weapons. In his spare time, Allen is even a shooting instructor He paid $1,500 I still don't like it. We need someone who defends our rights If we didn't have that group out there who would we have? Honestly, it's how we earned our freedom If we didn't have the Second Amendment I don't know how we would have rebelled to gain our own sovereign nation. It's just as important today around the world today, when a government disarms the populace and the government what does the populace They don't have the tools or methodology. Again, that's the worst-case scenario, No one wants anything like that. I think the understanding and are going It looks like it's working. These Americans will do anything and whoever gets in their way It's 7:00 news, Within the last hour, concedes in his recall race leading to the first recall The National Rifle Association to coordinate He's being punished as he goes in his state. In 2013, while serving as speaker Democrat John Morse for the crime of daring to propose a law of heavy-duty assault rifles. The organization retaliated by initiating and securing his dismissal. In December of that same year, 2012, We had nearly two dozen people most of them Our session started in January, and I knew that we needed to do something since much of that violence By that time, for its position. On one of the days they surrounded the Capitol that drove around the block until about midnight that night, trying to disrupt the hearings. The gun lobby did a great job people were opposed to these measures. Senate President John Morse and in the wrong direction. The NRA spent more than $1 million to dislodge John Morse from the Senate. He is too extreme for Colorado. Recall Morse: September 10th. Paid for by the National Rifle Association This is pretty much They lie, cheat, and steal, and for whatever reason, and as a result, It's just pure lies all the way through, There's very little Morse is going to give you less freedom. How is that even possible? After a career in the police John Morse is now 65 years old in Denver. From his hushed office, he sees the NRA win My biggest disappointment in losing to elected officials around the country. It was that if you do anything, we took out the president and we can take you out too. It has worked. There hasn't been much in the way since what we did. We did barely anything. It's the fact that it costs human lives, It makes me very ashamed Back in 2013, David Keene was president of the NRA. Five years later, he accepts full responsibility in which the stakes were sky-high. I went out there and lobbied against it, as did every other gun organization That was very important because you could almost all over the country closing, where they said it's not something because the fact to passing legislation It was political revenge that if you go there's a price to be paid. The NRA is more powerful It's the bane of elected officials Texas is a conservative state Resistance to the gun lobby A few weeks a debate on gun violence -No, he's our mayor. -Hey, I'm Steve, it's nice to meet you. -It's nice to meet you. Former soldier Stephen Kling is a local hero and the Democratic Party's candidate No, I was the one doing that. I was going to ask where Charlie is, -Hey, buddy. It's good to see you, buddy. Despite the pressure Kling made confrontation with the NRA The NRA is a lobbying organization They make billions In this, the United States where nothing is traceable. It's one reason the United States both legally and illegally, I care about moral clarity, and I care about making sure who haven't had one. If the NRA wants to come in here I'll take that challenge any day. If there's two halves Alongside Stephen Kling a victim, a survivor, municipal officials, All of them are committed In the United States, more than 36,000 people Two-thirds are suicides, In 2016, 120 kids under the age of 17 were killed and 175 were injured. Despite these tragedies, the federal law In most states, buying a weapon from a store and the buyer never needs to demonstrate It was destined to change the world... To maintain legislation the NRA does not just put pressure It invests huge sums of money spending millions of dollars This is a picture of the incumbent, She chose not to be here today. She felt like We tried to give her assurances and that we would listen She has no position. She defers to the NRA for her position, and that is part of the problem. It's that there are heavy-handed tactics by pouring money into them and overwhelming the other side oftentimes foreign money. It's a big part of the problem, doesn't reflect a popular will. Hi. The careers have been boosted by NRA funding. The NRA spends a considerable amount to prevent them from passing Foremost among them was John McCain, who received almost $8 million Senator Richard Burr, $7 million, and Roy Blunt, $4.5 million. In Florida, Not to mention Donald Trump, whose presidential campaign fund You have a true friend and champion No longer will federal agencies More surprisingly, the NRA has established based on their dedication School-like grades are attributed and they have The NRA rate political candidates that we rate our schoolchildren on. A is good and F is bad, and all of the major candidates What they often do that the person They have people and they scanned all of their speeches. You can do this on computers as well. For any type of comment just a few negative comments and they go after you. Typically, if you want an A+, you have to bow down to the NRA. You have to come out in favor without any type of restriction. What I want to say at the outset is that, this is a guy who gets it. Thank you, David. This is a guy who built that electrified this crowd today. You need great mechanics and candidates, Thank you very much, God bless you. We endorse about 1,400 candidates If you have an incumbent and a challenger who's A-rated, because his record is real, He or she didn't talk, they voted on it. That can influence people It's because recent polling suggests that out of all the Americans more than half of them When the NRA comes out and says, &quot;Don't vote for this candidate or &quot;Vote for this candidate they can send signals to people they might feel ambivalent A few miles west of Austin, Texas, the very young before they can even read. That's me shooting. That's you shooting when you were elder, It was my first time shooting. Yes, I shot the target. Kate is six years old today. She already has her own rifle Her father has turned her and a star in gun magazines. Depicted on the cover is Kate This is the one that she mostly shoots. That's what she started with. It's easy for her to use it and it fits her pretty well. I like to shoot it. It's fun shooting it, and it's pink. This is Kate with her ammunition for sale. Ammunition stands like a lemonade stand. There she is with her rifle. She trains jujitsu, and she does ballet and other things to shoot heavier guns. -There, hi. How are you? This Sunday, there are no martial arts She's out with friends, firing off a few rounds where it's 40 degrees in the shade. Right now, With these kinds of rifles, you want to have something nice and high Okay? You don't want to have it too low, I'm ready to shoot, dad. What's that, Kate? I'm ready to shoot, Okay, so let's do the first one dry. Down on the target, slack out, and press. Good, one more. Down on the target, slack out, and press. Okay, nice work. Be up a bit. Here, there's no minimum age These children The smaller ones, like Kate, Try to do it again. Although light and fast, Okay, nice job, Kate. Daddy says the numbers out loud, Why? Why do you like it? I like it because it's fun, Five. Good shot. Nice. Texans aged seven to 77 by brandishing The gun is at the heart and using it The AR-15 is not only the favorite rifle It is, above all, the weapon of choice Parkland and Pittsburgh in 2018. Then Las Vegas, Orlando, On every occasion, dozens were killed In the United States, The AR-15 has come to symbolize the war Some states have age restrictions but not AR-15s. You can buy an AR-15 legally You don't have to show any ability You don't have to show There's no waiting period You will walk out with an AR-15 and a hundred rounds That same guy There is no better firearm against realistic threats It's easy to learn and easy to use. I think there are two reasons One, it gives a sense of power. Second, people are also afraid you will also limit other weapons. There is this purity, the sense that we have It's what the NRA argues. The NRA does not defend the AR-15 They defend the right to own all guns. It's now become a focus in America because people say that there's no reason There's no good reason. They're not great for hunting. Its purpose is to kill in the shortest amount of time. In total, the gun industry between $19 million That's an estimate because there are no official figures. In return for those donations, the gun industry The NRA is funded primarily with members of the organization Like Aaron's company, many manufacturers Far from concealing it, Ruger, for example, that $2 is given to the NRA with the aim It helps explain of $250 million a year, which is a great help when it comes The obvious reason that manufacturers is that the NRA drives sales. Every time there was a shooting, people would buy more guns where they would start taking guns, so they will start making it harder Sounding that alarm was the NRA. The NRA was driving those sales. It's no surprise that gun manufacturers in gun shops where they give back a portion In exchange for donations the NRA does everything in its power with around three million That's not all. Thanks to its influence on many elected it manages to have legislation In 2005, for example, Congress adopted the Protection Act It's a law of any liability when their product The bill is passed as amended. The NRA declared it of the last 20 years. We lobbied Congress very heavily, We judge people on the basis Ultimately, they agreed and supported it, It was very important and it was very important and very important as something real. What it has ended up doing It's not almost impossible in relations You'll see that today, have consequences to study school safety Last week, Betsy DeVos, who's the secretary of education announced that they wouldn't look at guns. They wouldn't talk about guns She cited this act as part We have an act in Congress that says It's a whole guns don't kill people, It's because it's a bad person The gun has nothing to do with it. The NRA pushed it again that are giving them money The NRA sets the agenda. It has made the gun a sacred, The young opponents of the lobby For 60% of Americans, a check on a buyer's criminal record, and a ban on the sale of assault rifles Martin Benitez Torres. Shane Evan Thompson. Jonathan Ay Kuere Vega. Then one Paulo Rivera Velasquez. Today in the Capitol, the leaders of the student movement, proclaim their discontent I am tired of politicians before sitting down I am tired of NRA leadership and bashing young people Marcel McClinton is one of the leaders To challenge members of Congress, he organizes what these young people a reconstruction A dyin is just a mass of bodies. You lay down and make a mess or cross where you're going. It's at the west in the Capitol building, They take so much money from the NRA They only care about their money. They speak on behalf and not about what we want so they're all sellouts. At his side is Tyra, Since the tragedy, demonstrations, It's impossible to forget what happened. I lost my best friends. Ever since that day, not being able to call your best friend to talk to someone scarred me We were three months to go to college to be regular Americans. However, it took one person in a matter of six minutes. If it could take someone six minutes it should take them two seconds Change takes time. However, for Marcel McClinton, this is just the beginning of the fight. Back to Texas. Every time he walks past this church Marcel thinks back when he was just 13 years old. Two years ago, at my church, He was outside the parking lot. I think he killed only one person I want to say he shot two police officers The sounds don't get out of your head. At that time, again, I didn't give it any thought. It's disgusting as a country, as we call ourselves and yet we kill most of our people. I say we kill our people because our politicians There's blood on their hands, to say that we are the number I'm proud to be an American, I don't want to live anywhere else, we can't come together as one let's fix it. Reforms are hard to achieve, especially in a pro-gun lobby It's no coincidence for its 2018 annual convention. Eighty thousand firearm fanatics gathered along with guest of honor Donald Trump. The president, showed his unstinting support for the NRA using the 2015 Paris attacks They were brutally killed They took their time Boom, come over here. Boom, come over here. Boom! However, if one employee or just one patron had a gun, or if one person in this room aimed in the opposite direction, the terrorists would have fled and it would Right? In the short run, because he does their bidding. He does what they want. In the long run, because he's a useful adversary What the NRA would like would be someone because George W. Bush was a gun owner, but he was not so offensive Don't worry about the NRA, For the guys here there's nothing to be afraid of. I think the clearest example of how the NRA influences President Trump is the fact that you had the president at that meeting at the White House You had the president sit with some and from other shootings and appear open to policy ideas that would help We will be very strong and do very strong background checks, with a very strong emphasis Then that evening, he had dinner with Wayne Lapierre and we've never heard about any Students at the Florida high school are taking a road trip for change. Earlier, they boarded buses I'm here to tell you About 20 students are going in their push for stricter gun laws. They'll stop in 75 different cities and meet with voters Those who do not support a student's right without the fear of being gunned down Back to Florida, where it all started. Tyra and her friends from Parkland Since the killings, they have won some victories The minimum age to buy an AR-15 and Florida judges are now allowed of anyone deemed potentially dangerous. For the young survivors, We have our ten-point policy, they need to understand and it's crucial that this is a problem in our society, to let the public know That's what we've been doing. Second is the safe storage policy, where we want parents to know and only the person who purchased the gun because you were the one and you're the one who walked out, Then we have universal background checks. There are a couple more, It's a push for change. The Parkland generation, has had an impact exerting unprecedented pressure on the NRA Unfortunately, it isn't enough such as Stephen Kling elected, but the younger generation and promises to be the torchbearer less murderous America. They're able to keep up the call. They're able to mobilize people. They've become public figures. When I talk to people they often ask me, &quot;Why don't you make guns illegal?&quot; I try to remind people We have hundreds of millions It's beginning to change, because the way change happens is that we go into a part of the cycle and then they revolt the other way. This is the beginning of something. Moving forward, we'll see that change. There is plenty that can be done which could happen in the future. It's just a question of, &quot;Are we at a point where it is changing,&quot; &quot;or is the NRA going to remain