500 of them stark-naked, Yes, they weren't very nice, those spears. Well, they say it's much worse now, but these young fellas nowadays, There's not many has when Talk sense, man. All I say is, if then you can say goodbye to England, because the young chaps Hello, Drummer. Well, what about us? What about What about the Dogs? But you said yourself It's all this education and machinery It's all right to have a good regiment That's the point. Where are they? There you are. That ought International crisis. I tell you, Fred, things Do you know what time I got - Winston's having another go at them upstairs. You know that fellow Westlake, Do you know how long he went on last night? Hour and 40 minutes solid. I know. I know. You're dead right. It's the third time this week. I tell you, Fred, We're going to have a war. Let 'em get on with it. Let us get home War? Not a chance of it, madam, not this year. - Passage for California? Payable to the Agency, sir. You'll arrive in Benghazi on the 20th... - Are we likely to run into any sandstorms? The Italians haven't been very clever Libya's the only unspoiled playground War, that's the trouble. We'd like to do lots of repairs, - Not when it comes to taking the rent! we'd be giving you a bath with a geyser I don't want a geyser. Drip, drip, drip! It drives you mad. We can't all be thinking of ourselves And with summer coming on, I've only had it six months, I won't be able to get any spares. Foreign. - You may not be able to get any petrol. How am I going to get home? - It's nearly quarter past, Jim. You're in a bit of a hurry, aren't you? - Oh, that again. Territorials! Look here, Jimmy boy, At the War Office. Don't start looking for trouble. and if they hadn't told us to keep cool after but if there is going to be a war, With that knack of yours why, there'll be a packet Enough for you to buy And it's patriotic, too. Hello, Mrs Perry. Hello, Mr Jackson. Coming, Jim? - I can't go with my buttons like this. A man with your husband's brains It isn't as if he's got any rifles - But they have, haven't you? The trouble is to get them all clean. - Tanks? I thought he was in the infantry. You know, carriers. Well, the papers say you haven't You don't want to believe I wish I could take you to the Drill Hall. So much stuff there, It'd be a great eye-opener. Now, this is the 1914 type. When we get a gun - and we shall probably get the 1917 type I used it myself in 1918. The main thing is, keep it clean. Mind you don't drop the magazines, Get mud in the feed pawls - A bent magazine, you got more trouble. Shan't be a minute, old man. In my humble opinion, So if hostile aeroplanes all you got to do is touch 'em up a bit We ought to have dug trenches at Dunkirk, - then taken them in the rear. Oh, we had our troubles, in the Sudan and in - The Dogs always do. What was you in? The Dogs. D-O-Gs. You ought to know that, young fellow. - What you in? Oh, the Umbrella Danglers. Who does your marching for you? They could have done with us in Greece. There's another bungled engagement for you. Surrounded? All right, form square, same - You'd be too old to remember that? Times have changed, Dad. He's right, Bobby. I don't doubt they use bayonets nowadays, Great long beggars. No, nothing's changed. Except that life's much Now all them battle courses. Anything to get out of marching. Up to our knees in water to cross a stream. No joke, it was. Nowadays, they're afraid of getting their feet Lot of nonsense. One sergeant we had used to shout and scream, Wouldn't like that sort of caper nowadays. Too worried about them fancy battle suits Keeping a crease in their trousers No buttons to clean like we had. And another thing, we didn't get broke off for a We had to keep on marching, dressing properly by the right Looked lovely it did. Didn't feel so lovely, though. No joke when you've got wet feet specially when it's hot. Didn't have no feelings, No taking it easy with them - had to watch your step, you did. If you made a mistake in the drill, Much easier. I don't know why they don't call We'd show 'em. No need to, Dad. Look. - Big new call-up. Duke of Glendon's Light Infantry. I know it's wrong. Mr Davenport said so himself. He said I was on the list. He said so himself. Eat your egg. Oh, you don't know him. He'll do something. That's one thing about the firm, I'm sorry, Parsons, but it's been agreed will deal with all deferments in future, But you must realise, you know, Only key men are deferred now. I understand, but is there a chance that Mr We've lost Collins from Refrigerators There was nothing Mr Thyrtle could do. - I see, sir. Mr Thyrtle, please. Quickly. No, thank you. By the way, Parsons, shall I say, embarrassing forget... disregard any differences in status Yes, sir. Thank you. I must say, I think it very - of the powers that be Oh, I do agree, sir. After all, it's not as if my activities were - Yes, and garden ornaments. Well, never matter. - I must say, I think the Ministry are ill-advised. In general, Parsons. In general. - This free? Confidentially, I took the opportunity when I was saying au revoir, that Mr That should do a lot of good, sir. At any rate, I have taken the matter out of - Who's he? - Who's he, your MP? Oh, old Liverlips. Talked for two hours and Couldn't hear hisself for snores. - Do you know Sir Henry? - A member? They'll be sorry they let me go. You wait till the winter. They'll be &quot;Who let Ted Brewer go off to the Army?&quot; No-one can work them dampers like I can. Are you called up? So are we. All the same, I don't think you should No? Listen, there's only one good man - Who would that be? - I wonder what time we get to Hacklesfield. Three eleven. - Change at Crewe, don't we? Or there's the Derby way. - Doesn't get you in till five seven. - What, you called up, too? What, all of you? Go on! - It's all adventure, isn't it? Oh, I was very well situated. Big I suppose you know all the trains, then? I don't think you'd catch me out in Europe. Prewar, that is. I'm a bit continental - Your job's over for the duration. Pack up your troubles in your old kitbag, By the way, any of you in the Scouts? Hurry up. The two-twenty'll All right, I've only got one pair of hands, If you're not too busy, I've had a wonderful life. - You got a car? - What make? There's a smashing little job. I'll race you, - Can't last much longer, can it? - Too much rent control. I'll buy a Mercedes. Rooaaar! Smashing. - Wonder how many more there'll be of us. I suppose some will come from London, - Very little. I was in two minds about coming at all. - Here's the two-twenty. Hurry, Maisie! - Well, anyway, cheers. This is Crewe. Crewe Station. Passengers for Liverpool, Shrewsbury, Chester - Have we time for a cup of tea? Platform 7. We've got five minutes. - Shall I run and get you a cup, Mr Davenport? Can you tell me, - Platform 7. Over the bridge. I'll say. Duke of Glendon's Light I'm a fellow with a very independent disposition. Can't stand people telling me what to do. And if they try it, then I In fact, I usually am. Here, I'll get 'em. The Army will have to put up with me - Stop shoving, mate, will you? Tea? - China for me. Oh, good old Army. The thin red line. - I don't blame you for getting bottled. - Yes. You too? My name's Stainer. Can I interest any of - Three teas and a bitter. All set for the last lap? - Looking forward to it, this bloke. No. I wonder when we'll be able to. Mr Davenport was doing very important work The Army's full of people who make you suffer It might have gone down with the last but it won't go down with me, - And if they don't like it, I'll walk right out. Don't you shout at me like that. - He didn't do it on purpose. - There's a nasty piece of work for you. Scared stiff, he was. They always He looked like a regular. Fancy putting decent civilians Hurry up with that bitter, miss. You can't eat by numbers Have them yelling at By the left. Quick! Eat! Shut up, shut up. Oh, dear. There you are, you see. - Hurry up with that bitter, miss. Have a bite? No, thank you. - I have a very sensitive stomach. - Where are you going? - Good idea. Appalling service. Last journey without a pass for years. Ten Gold Flake, please. Ten Gold Flake! Passengers for Hacklesfield, Left right, left right, left right, All right, jump down, lads. Doesn't seem such a bad bloke. They've got to be nice Look at this. Breathe natural, that's the idea. - Barbarian. Keep those knees up. Nice big strides. Feel the benefit. Come on! Pick 'em up. Are you the new intake? That's right. Stand up, now. Let's see a smile. Come on, stand up, son. That's right. You look a bit weedy Too much town life. We'll Smile, nice smile. That's right. Come on, what's the matter with you, lad? Get And that's an order. Go on, you've only been four miles. Ought to feel fresh as a daisy! Look out, my lucky lads. Right! Pay attention! Then after I got back from Dunkirk I was sent to - then to the Officers Training Unit. We'd hoped for trained men, but we've got Some came in last week. You'll be looking after them. I expect They won't seem as... keen as you are. Then one day, you'll find you've got a platoon I don't know how it happens, but it does. - Sir? - Hello. Very glad to have you. You're lucky. Perry was in France with - NCO? Oh, has the depot sent Due this afternoon, sir. Fletcher. - Let me know what you think of him. Right, Perry. I'll leave Captain Sir. - I'm giving him No.9 platoon, sir. I can feel my rheumatics coming back again. You'll have to get rid of those Jumping ditches of broken glass - How do you know? I can't understand it. The Government puts broken glass then trains blokes to get across it At our expense, man. We're just cogs in a These living conditions Not if we keep the doors and windows open. - I can't sleep with the windows open. - Acute. That's your bowels. Driving my tractor - What, are you a farmer, then? I worked on a farm, though. They have a lassie doing my job now. She's better-looking than me What else did it say in Picture Post? Oh, yes. When you come to the barbed wire, one fellow lays across it - Oh, shut up, can't you? Battle training they call it. Just to get you Well, I won't be shot at merely to gratify Then there are these bayonet charges. They make you run all the way, too. And then you go swinging from tree to tree - Should be interesting. You don't know what you're What have you got to smile about, Lloyd? Oh, nothing. What a tragedy it all is. I'll get my lumbago back again at this rate. I Any day now. Ha! Lumbago. Don't they give us sheets Not in the Army. They do in the RAF. I'd never have believed that in a civilised All right, stop talking. Now, you're going to be No.9 Platoon. Mr Perry will be your officer Fletcher's my name. Sergeant Fletcher. Got it? Now, I'm used to having the best platoon in This is the programme. You can take it easy There'll be hot supper served for you Lights out at ten. Corporal Robbins Tomorrow you'll be issued with your kit and get Got it? Right. Let's have your names. - Davenport. Parsons, sir. - Your name? - And yours? You? Stainer. Yes? Luke. Yes? Brewer. Yes? Truscott. Squad will advance! About... turn! Leave it, leave it. I'll tell Squad, stand at ease! That man in the front rank there. Stainer. Corporal, put him in the Feet 12 inches apart, stomach in, All right, Corporal. Squad, 'shun. As you were! Wake up! - Davenport. Think what you're doing. And you, too. And you, Lloyd, wait for the - Look to your front! All right, Corporal. Fall in. Pick it up. Squad, 'shun. - Stand at ease, please. Squad, stand at ease. - What's your name? Stand to attention. - Take these names for the tailor. Do you think you're going to Well, I put down for the Navy, sir. - Your name? Go on. Stand at ease. This is far too big. Yes, sir. - What's your name? - What's the trouble with the boots? - I've rather a high instep. Rather an important one, actually, sir. I was in charge of three departments Too big, Sergeant Fletcher. And the trousers are a - Your name? Filth! What do you think a barrack You've got another five tons to shift yet. Come on! You'll do it properly Six men to scrub out the cookhouse. Eyes right! Wake up, that man! No, you can't have 48 hours. You've only been in a month. Stand up! Pick up that step! You six are detailed for This is a life, isn't it, eh? A child of three doesn't take as much pleasure It's just like I said. Putting us under guys like - No, 13 days it is. Who was it made him turn nasty - He'll soon change his tune. - I am. - Soon as I know my way around a bit. We've only done six weeks so far. - Throw it away. You're a nuisance, you are. I don't see how Fletcher - I had my back to him. - Hey, that man! That man! Take those hands out of your pockets. There's no parade. Hark at him shouting. Cad. You'd think he'd know those I don't seem to get any letters. Come on. You're not getting out of it. I'm going to shoot that rat What was all the shouting? I'm walking back from the lats, quietly, All at once I feels my nose running, so my Next thing I hear is his voice yelling at &quot;Take your hands out of &quot;That man!&quot; You wouldn't think we was human beings. You can't blow your nose now! - There. I warned you, didn't I? It would have been the same if we hadn't spilled - Golly! You keep on saying that. Well, I would have done it. - Stainer, you make me sick. You keep on talking, you - Well, what can I do? - Oh, don't be mad. Yes, and would they ever forget? I tell you, Lloyd, I'm going to see the officer. - Never. No, but I hate gasbags. What are you going to say, mate? I've got plenty to say. Be careful. Not mutiny. Look out, look out, here he comes. All right. When you've done here, He's got some scrubbing for you. Oh, and by the way, the next man I catch around camp with his Got it? Right. - Sergeant? I want to see the officer, please. What for? My reasons are private. All right. Write out an application And I'll see if Mr Perry can see you. Thanks, Sergeant. Right. When you all get through, - Look, Lloyd, I'll tell you what to say. If there hadn't been this trouble at Crewe, you think Sergeant Fletcher Yes, I do, sir. Now, these extra guard duties. According to the Do you think that because you're blaming Sergeant Fletcher It isn't only the guards, sir. You've been in the Army, what, six weeks? Isn't that a short time to decide I wouldn't have come to you, sir, You've made a complaint. I must investigate Do you want to refer it to Captain Edwards, I'd rather leave it to you, sir. - Very well, Lloyd. Sentries, pass! Quick march! Look here, Evan, I've been thinking. If he didn't actually say nothing, For the 100th time, he said Now, for goodness' sake, shut up. I told you it wouldn't do any good. But if he looks into it, Brewer, fetch the cocoa. Right, Sergeant. Won't be having cocoa at the sergeant's Lily Of Laguna Wait till the competitions. I'll bet... - Good evening. - What'll it be? Bitter? - What's Sergeant Major betting on? - We don't mind taking his money, do we? My old battalion were all Territorials, so I haven't Do they usually make complaints? Lloyd, sir? Yes. All soldiers like a bit of a grumble, sir. After all, it's not funny to have to run or stand up Or to have someone shout at you No, I think it does a man good Yes, if that's all it is. Well, they're new, sir. But there's He hasn't got the hang of it yet, but he He's a bit of a nuisance at the moment, - Now, Luke... The adjutant is taking some of his men for the Well, you'd think someone He even said that professor bloke - Davenport - There's nothing wrong with him - Stainer? Same with him, sir. He was a bit of a mess when - We haven't got a dud there, sir. Same thing in France, too. If we'd only had the guns and planes Well, anyway, that was that. There'll be no more of that nonsense. - Things are going to be different from now on. - Good evening, Brewer. Here, he's giving it to him. - Who's giving what to who? - Perry's giving him a right dressing down. He said things will be different. He wants - What did the sergeant say? Very slow, with a silly look on his face. Had all the stuffing knocked out of him. Good for you, Evan. You're a plucky lad. - I owe you an apology. From now on, he'll be as quiet as a little Come on! You're light infantry, Truscott! Truscott, get that fat side over! - Parsons! Come on! Come on! Come on! Get out of it! Get out of it! Come on, Davenport! - Come on. - Come on, Davenport! Oi! Get on with it, Luke! Come on, Beck! Hurry up, hurry up! Come on, come on. Come on, Parsons! Come on! Come on, the rest of you! Come on, Truscott! - Can't you see I'm stuck? Now what have you done? Don't hang about there, Lloyd! Quick as lightning you ought to be. Come on, Brewer, get some of that fat off! Come on, Parsons! You can do it, lad! Use your brains. What's Swing across! Don't fall! Brewer, double up, double up! Come on, Parsons. Right. You can use the mobile canteen. - What about it, Sergeant Fletcher? Parsons held them up a bit - What is the matter with him? Something's wrong. No grousing at all. &quot;Tomorrow he'll be saying please.&quot; - I only said what I heard. It's like I always said... Oh! The officer seemed to be enjoying the fun. Grinning he was. I saw him. &quot;Things have got to be different.&quot; - Oh, shut up. - What's that? - Two flans, two teas. Sorry, no razor blades. Yes? Tea, please. And a piece of Swiss roll. All right, pay attention. Go on eating. Oh, here he comes. I'm supposed to organise this regimental So, if any of you can play anything, dance, sing, I shall need all the help I can get. - I do recitations. Shall I put my hand up? Well, think it over and let me know. Well, I nearly got knocked Oh, they'll be all right, sir. Why don't you want to help him? He won't help us. Why should we help him? You don't seem to be having a very good Occasionally, but there's only one cinema Why don't you come over to tea? - Oh, yes, please. - Sunday. - Well... All right. - What time? - Four. Marjorie Gillingham. Number 12 Ellmore Street. 12 Ellmore Street. Right. Fall in. - All right, we'll find it. See you Sunday! Ring the bell. Steady. She may be looking Oh, hello, chaps. Mrs Gillingham? That's right. Come in, boys. - Just the seven, Sergeant. - Last man in, shut the door, will you? Charming house you have here. Bit of a change after our barrack room. Less congestion. Yeah, more room, too. Sit down anywhere. How are you liking the Army? - Need you ask? Been in long? - Seven weeks. Seems like years. - What are you in? Bombers? - On leave? - You're lucky. - How do you wangle it? Well, shot up a bit. Oh, but I'm all right now, though. See this wristwatch? Amazing. It landed five They told me it was still going Some farmer chap found it. Bit of luck, eh? Of course, I didn't really mean... Hello. So, you got here all right. Mother will be down in a minute. Come on, Buster. Well, so long, boys. Going to see that Merchant And they don't wear a uniform. Come on. Goodbye. - Bye. I wish we wore uniforms with a collar and Well, what do you think you are? Oh, how do you do? I'm Marjorie's mother. I'm so glad she persuaded The boys in the battalion before you Oh, thank you so much. So did the boys from the ack-ack battery, I always say, if Marjorie can have her canteen, Now, do sit down, please, all of you. There, that's right. And you can put your plate This is extremely kind That's right. Oh, dear. I'm afraid this place is rather untidy, Now, do make yourselves at home. Well, and how do you like the Army? We don't. Oh, dear, what a pity. Now, hands up And then what does he do? He has us I tell you he's a proper b... And the officer just smiled and then asked Both the sergeant and the officer That's right, ma'am. It's true. Oh, dear, it is a shame, isn't it? Well, they haven't taken your appetite The food's not good enough for that, Terrible. Since we've been in the Army, - Well, a shower's quicker. You can always have one here Only, let me know in time. Oh? What do you burn? I could probably show you a saving. I'll pop I wish you would. Marjorie's friend Buster and, naturally, You poor lads. Your life It is, Mrs Gillingham, it is. But you said just now Yes, if we do the acting. There was a boy in the ack-ack There was one poem - How did it start? It was hot that summer in Kicking Horse... And the earth was parched and dry. Full of geographical licence, - Good old Sid. Why don't you volunteer? - You know what I told you. Well, I thought I was joining the Army, It's time we went. There's Do come again next week, - You're not going already, are you? Now, don't you let the If you want to volunteer for the concert, - Try it again without holding it. Close them. Now open. Oh, that's perfect. Everything all right? Yes, thank you, sir. We had a lot of trouble Old Colonel Walmsley's coming over and he's also going to do some monologues. Well, the brigadier's coming. Well, Cook Sergeant Trubshaw - Beck in my platoon's going to do something. &quot;It was hot that summer in Kicking Horse, - Why parched and dry? &quot;And the town was full...&quot; Get on with it, Sid. The Exercise! Questions ought to be asked Listen, listen. Look, would you do it like this &quot;And the earth was parched and dry.&quot; Yes, that's good. No, it looks absurd. Make up your minds. I've You ought to have thought of that. I'll laugh when you forget your words, I only did it because Mrs Gillingham... I know, I know. Come on, my lucky lads. Oh! After you, Mr Barrymore. Never mind them, son. Carry on. - In a minute. It might be better The first item tonight is a band. We are lucky to have with who have come all the way from Hacklesfield The men always like a dance band. One, two, three. Gentle pastoral tune Who are these people? The Pollocks. Halt! Corporal Langley, Military Police, Advance, prisoner and escort. I wonder why I do not care, For the things that are Does... Does half my heart lie buried there, - All ready, Beck? - Now, what do I announce? Does the applause warrant an encore? - Well, there's Beck here, sir... Now, come along, come along. Yes, that's all right. That's all right. For an encore, I propose to give you The Lynching Of Black Maguire. It was hot that summer... I'll bet Perry knew this The earth was parched and dry. And the town was full of Though nobody seemed to know why. That was my piece, sir! - Can you do anything else? May I have a word with you, sir? What is it? Men looked with their eyes, Oh... For looks were as hard as knives. - If what? For looks were as hard as knives. The MPs caught him trying to board the - I'll see him as soon as this thing's over. As the sun went down, all there could see, Against the glowing ball of fire, The body of Black Maguire. Go on, Parsons. Well, when we were married, and I got all the furniture Well, I was called up and with the money not They've been bullying the wife. Now they're going to She's sick with worry, and with the baby coming - So you were off home? How were you going to deal Well, they don't do that kind of thing It's just because she's a woman. I don't think a deserter I don't know what I was going to do, sir. May I see one of these letters? Being in the Army has a lot of disadvantages, You're not alone any more against anyone. Germans or furniture shops. - Do they know you're in the Army? Well, I can put your mind at rest This is not from a lawyer. It's a cheap debt They can't touch your furniture. - But it says there, sir... I only wish you'd seen Well, I'm sorry, sir. You know how... Yes? No, nothing, sir. Well, it's rather out of You'll go before the Colonel in the morning. In - What time is Orderly Room? Right. I'll be there, Parsons. - All right, Sergeant Fletcher. All right, Parsons, fall in. Highland Laddie I think Parsons is well out of this. I'd rather be here than in the glasshouse. I wonder why he didn't Whatever it is, we won't recognise him Persecuted for a few sticks of furniture. I reckon they'll give him field punishment. Having a nice time? Come down here and I'll tell you! I bet they slept in that Actually, it's not as comfy as a ditch, - I slept very well myself. Into the left. Keep into the left. Cor! Look. Why don't you look where you're going? And, remember, Perry, everything depends on your Until you do, - All right? Section commanders, over here! Look at this! That's B Company. Out of it already, Corporal? Umpire ruled us dead. - They had a Bren gun on us. Good luck, I call it. Yes. Now, listen carefully. Our job is to take the bridge, We've got to get there without being seen, And whatever happens, keep your heads down. Not this way. They'll see us. Stop the section. I'll go round This is too stupid for words. Think of the other blokes. I am thinking of them. Why should we stay Easy said, mate. Easy done, too. We could get killed. - What, killed intentional? That's not fair. - This is all right. Tell them to come on. Best use of ground. Lloyd, what do we do? Follow me. When I give Now! - Watch your front. Loch Lomond Won't be long now. Home sweet home. I wonder what's for tea. I don't care as long as there's pickles, I'll come with you, mate. - Look who's here. Did they give you hell? - Or haven't you been? - What did they do to you? What to do? Go to London, get things straightened up. - There, you see. Oh, we did extra special well, We've Evan to thank for that. He should be You'd better get your wet things off What happened with the Colonel? Of course, I had the wind up at first, The Colonel chewed me up properly, Perry's fixing up about a War Emergency - How did you come to get back? Well, we're home again, anyway. I wonder what the others are doing. Probably still capturing bridges, Serves 'em right. Blimey. Look out. Here he is. Tea's ready in the cookhouse, sir. Pity we didn't see it through, sir, eh? When this regiment was formed, Napoleon's armies were just across We'd had defeat after defeat and a great We weren't, but not because we were lucky. When the first battalion of this regiment Talavera, 1809. That was the first They marched 42 miles in 24 hours and every man jack of Talavera - it's on your cap badges. The other battles, too At Sabugal, with four companies of riflemen, Salamanca, Orthez, Waterloo, Tel el Kabir, Mons, Ypres, Somme. Those are battle honours. You're allowed to wear that badge to show that you belong and that when the time comes, Last year, that badge was in France. This year, in Libya. It hasn't been disgraced yet. Now you're wearing it. I know what went wrong today. It so happens that Captain Edwards doesn't. You needn't worry. I'm He's quite depressed as it is to think that it was But I just want to tell you this. If you ever get near any real fighting - but if you do, you'll find that you're If you're lucky, you'll have soldiers like Captain If they're lucky, they'll All right, Sergeant Fletcher, Platoon, 'shun! All right, get the rest of your stuff off What's up? To hear him talk, you'd Yes. He'll be as bad as the sergeant now. Come on, Johnson! Come on! One more go Was that any better, sir? - 17 1/2. Sergeant Fletcher! - What was it this time, sir? - That's better than the other platoons, sir. Hoo! 17 1/2 minutes. You didn't do it in 17 1/2. - So was Bert. Weren't you? Ah, what does it matter? He doesn't How much better do we have to be - I don't blame him. - Listen who's talking. You weren't there, you twerp, so shut up. We only did it for a joke, anyway. You'd think he'd be decent - Parsons! Over here. Well, we've asked for it and we've got it. Cunning little beggar, sucking up. - If Bill doesn't come soon, there'll be no tea. I wonder what he was sucking up Trying to get some more - So long, boys. - Steady on with that sugar. Isn't Bill down yet? I do hope the bath water's still hot. - How's the leg now, Bert? It's rather worse since It'll be better later, I expect. You should see my leg, Mrs Gillingham. Just put those down there to keep hot, Ted. It's agony to move it. Take it slower if you can't do I didn't notice you taking it slower. You were - Look here! Boys, boys! I don't know what's come over you lately. - Well... You ought to be ashamed of yourselves. Ah, here's Bill. Now, he's not grumpy. - Sorry I've been so long. Ted, give Bill a scone. Oh, do have a scone, Lord Fauntleroy. Oh, I wonder who that can be. Sure you wouldn't rather sit here, Bill? Thanks, Geoff. Very nice of you. Oh, it's another soldier. - It's Fletcher. Fletcher. He asked me about baths at the camp. So that's what it was. - And you told him about this place? You... BF, you. Listen. - Mrs Gillingham? I heard you were kind enough to let Oh, yes. Do come in. I know how difficult it is Perhaps you'd like some tea Oh, thank you very much. - Er... What's your name? This is Perry, boys. Oh, we have met. You know each other. That's splendid. I hope you haven't got the same dreadful Same one. Well, not really dreadful. - I suppose you find it very trying, too. I'll pop down and tune up the boiler again. Oh, dear. - Sugar? I...I think perhaps I'd better go down Charming woman, Mrs Gillingham, sir. Yes, she seems very nice. Aye. She... She lets us have Oh, you're lucky. No thanks, I've got some. Any truth in the rumour, sir, Just lost his voice on parade, I think. - Shouting, sir? Yes, sir. - Will you have a cake, sir? You shouldn't have bothered, Ted. - Here, Mrs G? You know that officer we was talking about? - Who, the horror? Perry? - Oh, what did I say? Oh, my goodness! I wonder what I'd better do now. Well, it'll take at least a half an hour - I wonder if we could tell him that... I'm sure the lads would Oh, I don't quite like to do that. Well, you see, it's very awkward. - Still... - It don't work. I always do... this. Yes, well, of course you can do that. Well, of course, if you don't get on together, - I'll tell him. The thing I never discovered was - Well, sir, I was just going to explain. It was not suicide, sir. Actually, a lot of people believe Mr Perry, the water will Oh, thank you. Well, the next time we have a concert, sir, Certainly. If they'd like it. As long as he doesn't - It's a bit near the company office. I used to study jazz, sir. If there is another concert, I could Spare us that. - What are you doing in the next concert, Ted? Oh, I couldn't do nothing, sir. We wouldn't want a shambles like last time. Well, I might... tell a few of my stories. I don't think the brigadier Maybe he wouldn't like 'em in public, sir, but I don't know. I tried that once. Captain Edwards seems quite pleased - What, with us, sir? How do we compare with the others, sir? Oh, they've been at it a good deal longer - Well, we can do anything they can do, sir. I'll hold you to that. By the way, I heard something Leave starts next week. What, for all of us, sir? Here, sir? Have you heard that one about the old man This is Crewe. Crewe Station. Jim! Passengers for Liverpool, Shrewsbury... Jim! ..and Hacklesfield should change here. Come on, London train. - What will you do when you get home? - What after that, Ted? - Hello. - Have a good leave. Two whiskies. Are those the awful men No, that's another lot. Quite different. - So that's his missus, eh? A nice bit of stuff. - Porter, Cardiff? - What's happened to the old 10.31? Go on! Lovely service, that was. - Is the Glasgow train over the bridge? Is that us? - Certainly is. - Come on, Ted. Ta-ta, Geoff. Ta-ta, Luke! Home sweet 'ome. Workers' Playtime! - Turn it off. - Turn it off, I say. - Turn it off! She's your daughter. All right. Turn it up a bit louder. - I suppose the Army's still all potato-peeling. You should have joined the Welsh Guards. Light Infantry move faster, Mrs Daniels. - What's this on your cap? I know that, Evan, I'm not daft. There you are. Talavera - Did you win it? Look at the rest - Busaco, - You can't fight any war without infantry. Air power, tanks - they're the new weapons. The only engine the infantryman has I don't agree. - What I mean is... An infantryman is one of the most He has to be a mechanic, a gunner, an explosives He has a greater variety of weapons Then he has to be trained in not just Street fighting, tank hunting, That's what we're going Has the quality deteriorated, Mr Thyrtle? Not really, Mr Davenport. It's old stock. Of course, those cupid birdbaths that used to Purchase tax, of course. If I were the public, Thyrtle, - That's what it does. But the public must be made to buy. Has the war completely Watch. Yes, madam. What can we show you? What happened to Betty and Joyce, then? Betty's in munitions, Joyce is in the ATS. Should've thought you'd Oh, they tried to get me to take one. No stripes, no pips, no responsibility. Ssh, Tracy! Mummy, there's an enormous stickleback. - She is sweet. Yes. Back tomorrow. I wonder how much longer it'll last. Stands to reason, Rommel or no Rommel. Only, let the Dogs do it. Leave it to the Guards, or the Greencoats, and it ain't worth doing. But put the old Duke of Glendon's I daresay, I daresay. But the reason why we won't do it, is because In any case, Hitler intends to synchronise his He'll have to do more than that, eh, Dicky? It's all very well for you to laugh. This time next year, we'll have The people at the top, what are they doing? Sitting back and doing nothing. If you were the only girl in the world And I were the only boy Nothing else would We would go on loving in the same old way A Garden of Eden just made for two With nothing to mar our joy I would say such wonderful things to you There would be such If you were the only girl in the world And I were the only boy Are we all here? - Come on, Macready. Well, I've called this meeting The information I have is security, so I know I can depend on you - Is that understood? I don't know very much about it myself, The circumstances are rather unusual, we're not getting ordinary - Are they still there, Sergeant Major? It would be something Yes. The lads need it. They're fully trained I don't blame 'em. The papers may have forgotten - What do you say? - Well, so have you. Mobile war's a young man's job. Office work's more in my line nowadays. - Ah, you're kidding. Office work, you? - Good evening. - Hello. I thought you'd be in the mess. Well, the Colonel's given Oh, yes, sir? What er... We're going on a two months' course, - What er... kind of course, sir? - Must be. We've done nearly everything now. I see, sir. Everybody has to have their seven days Very well, sir. I'll see the sergeant major - Sergeant Fletcher? When you tell the men... - No, sir. Good night, sir. And I was the only boy - Nothing like a good old sing-song. - I think it was Fletcher's lovely voice. - I used to sing in a choir till my voice broke. - Just a moment. All right, I haven't said a word, have I? Now, listen. I've got In October, we're all going off on a And I should say... it's So the CO has brought all That's something, anyway. Well, I thought you'd like to know, That's all. The new leave list will be out tomorrow. Good night, sarge. - We get our leave early, anyway. I wonder what it is. Well, I can tell you what it is. So somebody says, Somebody else says, &quot;Why not give them a bit Still, leave won't be so bad, will it? I read in the paper the other day that we're If we don't get some action soon, Perhaps we're going to be paratroops. I'd like to see a battalion of motorised - Who's room orderly tomorrow? Better clean out the inside of that stove. OK. I wonder why the sergeant was so pleased He wants to get home to his wife. Yes, I suppose that's it. She has my sympathy. It's a funny thing, but there was a time Pity seven days is so short, eh? - Goodbye, dear. That's right, Hilda. - Hello, Ted. - Hello, Bert. Have a nice leave? It's very nice of you Pleasure, Davenport. Take your seats on the 10.40. - Hello, Luke. Have a good leave? - Will I take your coat? - Well, goodbye, dear. Funny sort of war, isn't it? That's right. Is that Mr Perry over there? - Yes. Good as a regular... almost. Goodbye, dear. It's funny how much of our lives Yes, the amount of times we've said goodbye I wonder what we'll look like in 1970. Darling, don't wait. Jimmy, if you should ever go away ..I'd never forgive you, you know. - You'd better get in, Geoff. We're due out. Now, don't forget. Any special thing - I'll let you know, Dad. I will. I won't wait. Goodbye, darling. See you soon. - Goodbye. Take care of yourself. - Goodbye, dear. - God bless you, dear. Blinds down! Goodbye! She won't half be wild. Don't worry, Ted. I can taste the bananas already. - Hello, sir. - Any idea where it is we're going? - Jungle fighting. Oh, not our platoon, sir. Perhaps we're going for I don't care where we're going. I'm ready - We wouldn't go there with all this transport. Not that way. Put the ring over the hook. I wonder where we are going. Ssh! Listen. We're moving. One, two! One, two! Deep! Get that lovely Come on, Mr Perry. I can see you. Come on, sir. Come on. Steady! Break off! It's going round the ship - Is there any truth...? - I think I saw the outline of the Rock, sir. I haven't heard anything. Where do you think we are, Beck? Oh, I should say one... All right, sit down. Well, we've just had some very good news. Major Edwards is telling the rest of the The 8th Army have just won a big victory at Whoa! You haven't heard half of it yet. Now, we, in this convoy, are part of a big that is going to French North Africa to remove the enemy from there We land about 40 hours from now. I can't quite tell you where yet, This is the first step that's going to make Hitler and Mussolini Now, in the past, and many of us have been pretty fed up Not people like Brewer and Davenport, However, that's all behind us now, and it looks as though all this training we did Now, I'll just give you what details I can. Now, if we land at Phillipville, there's a three-star hotel there which would doubtless have beer in stock. Those who prefer more exotic beverages at the mysterious bazaars and coffeehouses They ought to make you a corporal for that. We did a brochure on Algeria in '38. Of course, He only started to drink ginger beer I can't see us having much time for beer. No, action, eh? With all this equipment. Yes, I shan't be sorry We won't half have something Jerries are round again. - What's that noise, mate? Guns? I shouldn't let anyone - Good evening, sir. - Good evening, sir. - I'll be glad when... Stand still! Now, walk to your boat stations. Do that up, Luke. Rifle, Sidley. No-one is to go near a - All right here? Yes, on the port side. Fire started in No.4 hold, sir. Get that hose along! And Clear that gear away from the bridge! - Hodges? - Woodward? Robinson? - Livingstone? Call the roll. - Stewart? - Jackson? - Peters? Get that hose over here! - Are you all right over there? Mr Mate! Yes. What is it? The cargo's shifting! Right! - You fellows there, come with me. Bosun? Yes. What is it? Starting on the upper twin deck. Fire on the upper twin deck, sir. Get below. You, you three, go with him. The rest of you, lose as much weight as - Start with this transport. Unship those rails! - Can't we get that stuff out of the magazine? Come on, get a bloody move on! - All our new stuff, eh, sir? Right, brake off! Take this rope! Make it fast there! Make it snappy! Chuck that rope round the back of it! Now put a chock in front of that carrier. Get another hose on that magazine! That magazine'll save us - Hold it! Hold it! 12 feet of water in No.4! No.5 bulkhead's bulging! Brake off! Bosun! How's it going? What's the position? - I can't hold it any longer. The fire's out of control down there! Right! Destroyer coming alongside! Abandon ship! Destroyer on starboard side! Other side! Abandon ship! That soldier there! Destroyer calling trooper, Get your men down as fast as you can. Look out for my heaving lines. Let down your nets. I'm sending some men aboard to help you. Come on down, mate. Don't look down, Bert. Keep clear of the nets. Take it easy, men. Don't rush. Don't rush. Get that rope! Round the wheel! Luke! How many more men are there? Right! Come on, sir, it's time we were away. Get your nets adrift. Get down, men. Keep your heads down. I knew we needn't have bothered She might have gone up sooner if we hadn't. A nice lot of transport, that. - All right here, boys? How's the sergeant? The doctor says he'll be all What happened to your hand, Stainer? It's just a graze, sir. It's nothing. - Take care of it. Have you got a dressing? I expect the Colonel will be pretty disappointed They can't start without us, though, In this ship, we'll get there before them. Yes, that's right. I'm sorry, boys. I'm We're being taken back to Gibraltar. The Hampshire Regiment, the Lincolnshire Regiment I don't know. They seem to have forgotten all about us, No wonder they've made There's not a sign of the Dogs anywhere. Too many Guardsmen up the top, Still, the 8th Army ain't doing so bad. If the government only kept its eyes open the war'd be over by now. It ain't the government's fault, Bobby. That's who I blame. I wonder what they have done with the Dogs. What does your husband say, Mrs Brewer? He says things are still very dull. Well, they all say that, don't they? I don't care how dull it They're glad they've left the Rock. Of course, he couldn't say Gibraltar They must be either in Algeria or Tunisia, If only we knew. - Perhaps it's better we don't know. Ted says there's a stripe He says your husband's You've no more recent news than that, Bill says something about a stripe, too. - I wonder whether you... All Jim writes about are the flies. Where the hell are we? - You're driving. Not even a flick house with an army picture. How about them harems? I haven't seen any yet. Nothing but flies. Talk about &quot;the mysterious East&quot;. I reckon Lyons Corner House, Coventry Street's, This isn't strictly speaking the East. What is it, then? You could call it the Middle East, Heaven preserve us from the Far East, Perry! That's your area over there. Right, sir. You come with me. Beck! Good afternoon. Beck, tell him that this and we hope he'll cooperate with us Monsieur le Lieutenant dit qu'ici est le et qu'il invite votre cooperation - Ah, oui! Tell him we're going to kick the Germans Monsieur le Lieutenant dit que nous voulons - Et surement vous voulez la meme chose. Says he's a pacifist, sir. Monsieur, il y a des batailles qui se deroulent Ici, il n'y a rien. Allez la-bas Je n'ai pas le droit de vous permettre Dites-lui, s'il veut des batailles, He says to tell you, sir, that the fighting's in the He's telling us. And that he cherishes the He invites us to go to Sutre, He says that Sutre's a bigger place than If you wish, he can give That's very cosy of him. Our orders - Monsieur... Je deteste le bruit! Allez vous-en! He's not very fond of Repeats that he's a pacifist Allez, filez! - He says... Very good, sir. Rock, nothing but rock. Fancy having to farm - Well, it ain't exactly a picnic for us. Why should the enemy No such luck. We won't Now who's worrying? No, sir, it's Luke here. Let's hope we won't be here long enough - Are we moving, sir? - All here, Fletcher? At the double, there! Hurry up! Are we going to have an ENSA concert, sir? No, I think the concert parties - All here, Fletcher? I'll give you the full details later, Our battalion's in reserve and a long way out in front, You may see the German Well, we're still a long way from them, but there's no reason why Cheer up, Davenport. What's that? Some sort of tortoise, sir. There's a lot of them. I'm glad somebody in the place is friendly. Now, this cafe. He may improve with care, and be on your best behaviour, right? - Right, sir. Nice, friendly country, this. Look at him. What's up? He hasn't read the Beveridge Report, I haven't read it myself, come to that. He wanted us to leave him alone, - I don't blame him. I don't blame us, either. What about this? Couldn't we have a game? Go on, Sid, ask him. Ahem! Er... Monsieur le patron! Est-ce que vous serez tres incommode Vous avez de l'objection? Go on, put it up and play. Come on, Beck. It's time Och, come on. Cor! Look at that! Verey lights. I wonder if they're ours. Yeah. Pretty near, too. Kind of creepy, isn't it? Come on. Nothing like it. 21. 39. Well done. 39. Ah, well, it's been a nice game, boys. Simple. We'll court the audience. 9. Er... 21. - How do we stand, Bert? - Hey, what's the idea? - Let him break up the game? Look, he's taking cover. Very good! Very good! Sacre cretin! Idiot, espece d'andouille... Un grand trou. Mechant. - Well played, sir! - Why can't you play like that? Vous voyez, il n'est pas necessaire Allez, filez, filez! Et vous, vous vous conduisez comme ca devant Continuez. - Come on, George! Come on! Not bad, eh? - Two, two. - Good job! What about beginner's luck? All right, all right. - What's the lecture today, sarge? ..has been as fine Yes, it's been a good year all round The potatoes and sugar beet And other crops are also satisfactory. Of course, Michaelmas has been considered for But things have altered. Thousands of boys and girls on holiday from and working like Trojans It warms a farmer's heart in the village of Redshaw-by-Farrow. A little girl, Switch it off. Platoon, 'shun! All right, sit down. Smoke if you want to. Afternoon. I had hoped that we would have seen so you could have kept up with your aircraft However, all we have seen is a couple of so we'll run through the German types, We'll start off with a few questions. What's this one? Davenport? - Messerschmitt 109F, sir. This one? Luke? - Stuka, sir. - Brewer? - Stainer? Parsons, what's the difference between The wings of the Henschel are swept back, and on the Lizzy - Steiner, have you got that machine of yours? Well, play it. And the rest of Lily Of Laguna ..lady love She's no gal for sitting down to dream She's the only queen Laguna knows I know she likes me I know she likes me Because she says so She is my lily of Laguna She is my lily and my rose She's my lady love She is my dove, my baby love She's no gal for sitting down to dream She's the only queen Laguna knows I know she likes me I know she likes me Because she says so She is my lily of Laguna She is my lily and my rose I wonder what's up. One hour's notice and then stand-to. Look at it now. I suppose that's what the How many magazines have you got? The Jerries have attacked - All right here? - Lummy, I could do with a fag. I say, Corporal? Quiet, Beck. Thank you. Watch your front! Watch your front! Listen. What's that? - Sergeant Fletcher? Do you hear that? Tanks. I'll go over and have a Here they come. Section! Enemy in front! Rapid! Come on, come on. Fire! Change! - Your men all right? Good. Listen. They've broken through behind B Company - Maria, aux caves! C'est un ordre! Ca y est! Ca y est! Au secours! At the double! Davenport, Luke, over here! Mortar. - Where the hell is it? Can you see it? Let's try down below. I think I've spotted it! - Where? Follow me, Beck. Brewer, come on. Come on, Fletcher! Luke! This way! Fletcher, see that six-pounder across the Luke and Brewer will come with me as cover. - I want you too, Beck. You take over. - Now, across the street... and run like hell. See that Vickers? Take it into If we keep their heads down on that hill - Venez donc! Now, Beck. What's the matter with it, Luke? Dry. Bone dry. And ruddy hot! Pass auf! Pass auf! Da! Come on! - Look who's here. Down! - Ca va aller. Right, Beck. That's the last one, sir. One of them gone, anyway. - Are you both all right? Well, come on back with me, quick! - Check the ammunition, Lloyd. - What have you got, Geoff? - Luke, how much ammo? - Ted? - Davenport? - Beck? Four magazines Right, well, go easy on it. Something happening over there! They've surrendered! Gosh, I didn't It may be a trick. Listen. If you resist us more, If you lay down your arms, we promise you good treatment and food! Who the hell does he think he's talking to? - Yeah, that's right. I await your immediate reply! I'd like to take a pot at him. Beck, tell him in German to go to hell. Can you hear me? Yes! Your answer, quick! Wollen Sie so gut sein in Dei... In Dei... Sorry, sir, I've forgotten the German for He knows English. Go to hell! - Everybody OK? Feeling a bit hungry, sir. Breakfast may be a little All right, Brewer? Plenty to grumble about? - Yes, thank you, sir. Jimmy, this is what we're going to do. - Is that clear? Lloyd! Lloyd, we're going in! - Did you get that? I'll go and see the other sections. Here it is. I'm sorry I forgot the It's Holle. That's all right, Beck. Come on, lads. Once more for the day Military March