Every day, more than two billion people use Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp or Messenger. That's more than a quarter And despite a rising number of Facebook is still growing. Total revenue for 2018 up 37% from 2017. But with all of those users paying Facebook make money? Is the company selling your and even foreign governments? It's actually much simpler than that. How do you sustain a business model Senator, we run ads. Throughout its entire history, Facebook revenue here and there. The company has experimented with other with its Oculus VR headsets But really all of that is chump generates from advertising. About 99% of Facebook revenue There are about 7 million advertisers on aren't like a traditional TV commercial Facebook and its entire family of apps use sophisticated and much more valuable. When they first started out these were website. But since then, they have evolved advertiser can pick the kind of I believe that started happening after and from her experience with advertisers And she could provide that to them. And probably more than that using volunteers. Facebook ads are targeted, which was specifically for you. Companies only want to pay to show ads its products. Facebook provides advertisers with a near their time or money, an assurance that a high school student and not a retiree, or joint will be seen by a As a result of this targeting, corporations and drive more sales for advertisers who There's no better way to The other reason that advertisers use that the company offers. The company has a ton of data on advertisers, especially those who maybe on a that they're reaching users who This has led television and This year, it is estimated traditional advertising for the first time, all ad dollars spent. But how does Facebook know exactly who in? Many paranoid users have alleged the your conversations through the This isn't true, although Facebook has eventually pick up audio signals from your It's also filed a patent that can face as they read their news feed. The company claims it will not use to focus on ways to gather At the moment, it can gather almost do on its family of apps. Of course, you input basic info like profile, but you're also liking pages, sharing your location. Facebook is able to package all this try to figure out what kind of person Or better yet, what you are looking to advertisers who are Facebook can also get data on you through what's known as Based on this kaleidoscope of profile for each user, putting them can pick and choose from Corporations can target ads based on you have, your political leaning And with enough information, these ads can that you might not even But all of these details are Not an exact science. The company has found itself in hot heavy handedness in its Pregnant women who have had miscarriages continuing the show them A ProPublica investigation found that advertising categories, The Trump administration recently charged its advertising practices for housing, employers and landlords to limit audiences gender. The company has pledged to reform Just as ads can influence consumers influence voting behavior. In the Cambridge Analytics scandal, 87 data stolen to help We didn't take a broad enough view So what can you do if you don't want Facebook to show you personalized, targeted ads? If you're trying to avoid ads But there are a few things that you Users can adjust the categories interested in by going But it's nearly impossible Even if you delete Facebook, which company still has your data if Instagram just past 500 million daily that is found on every app in generated photos and videos to take Recently, Facebook has started to placing an emphasis on Facebook is starting to sell ads to format. It is hoping to ramp that generate more revenue than the advertising In its latest earnings call, the advertisers are using stories So despite data breaches and advertisers. And while user growth has But there are things that could advertising business. Many people have become concerned about Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff recently compared Apple introduced Screen Time to help users they're spending on social We are very The EU has put into place that are doing business on the internet, imagining that that could occur in Another factor that Facebook has revenue is of its own making. This is a new feature called Clear to roll out to users in 2019. Clear history essentially gives users the Facebook has on them. The less data that Facebook has hurts ads to you with precision. Mark Zuckerberg recently announced a new outlined building a privacy-focused platform, raising questions for investors products will work if Three weeks after that announcement, a broadcast his attack on two Facebook had to remove 1.5 million copies of the In spite of all of these events business, it keeps growing. I don't think it looks like anybody the least about what they're disclosing That's the crazy thing. They just keep doing it.