Vanessa: Are you ready to understand fast English conversations? Yes, let's talk about it. Speaking naturally and fluently is a great what the other person is saying, you're going Today I want to give you my top tip for understanding You are going to learn, number one, how to Number two, we will practice this method together, And number three, I will show you how to continue And like always, I have created a free PDF tips, pronunciation, and vocabulary, so that You can click on the link in the description So how can you understand fast English conversations? Can you learn just like a child, if you just understand? Well, you might, but it also might take 10 You probably don't want to wait 10 years. You want to understand fast English conversations So what's the trick? You need to study and analyze fast English and then you can use that same sentence structure And that is exactly what we're going to do We're going to analyze a short English conversation verbs, expressions, grammatical points so understand them in fast conversations. So get a pen, pencil, or piece of paper ready. Let's study. We will be using my four step listening method. Step number one is to listen to a fast real This is exactly the speed that native or advanced You will hear Margie, who is my mother-in-law, educated her children when they were younger. Then step two is we will listen to a slow My husband, Dan and I, are going to say the conversation, but we'll slow it down and I Step three is to write everything that you Write from the fast conversation, use the I want you to test your listening skills and Step number four is to check your writing. As you look at the transcript and your writing, that word because in fast conversation it's cut off and I didn't understand that that's And now I see the light.&quot; You will also catch new vocabulary words that also review three keywords from this conversation. This lesson is a sample of my course, the you will use the four step listening method Each day you will receive a new lesson and skills and finally understand fast English Thousands of English learners around the world of them have told me that at the beginning it got easier and easier. So if today's lesson seems tricky for you, It's your first lesson. I hope that you can join us. There's a link in the description and it will Let's take a look at the worksheet so that Here's the conversation outline. First you will hear Margie's voice, then my If you have a piece of paper, I recommend prepare yourself to write what you're going This listen is day 16 of the listening challenge, Are you ready? It's time for the fast English conversation We're going to listen to it three times and you hear. If you need to repeat this section again and problem, but I want you to be active. Are you ready? Let's listen and I want you to write. Let's go. One quick thing that I forgot to mention is in this special video. The first segment is where we will practice mother-in-law, Margie, and then we will go more advanced, a little more challenging with And finally, at the end of this lesson, I'm you understand fast English conversation. These tools will guide you and help you in All right, let's get started with the first Margie: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Margie: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Margie: Vanessa: Margie: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Margie: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Margie: Vanessa: Margie: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Margie: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Margie: Vanessa: Did you feel like that was too fast? Well, native and advanced English speakers and I want you to be able to do that too. Because when you visit the US or you have with friends in English, people will speak Let's go to step two of my four step listening My husband, Dan and I, are going to say each with Margie, but we are going to slow it down. This is not how people speak in real life, word and then we're going to go back to the be able to understand a lot more at the end. All right, let's listen to the slow version Dan: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Dan: Vanessa: Dan: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Dan: Vanessa: Dan: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Dan: Vanessa: Did you write everything that you heard in If you joined the 30-Day English Listening these audio files and PDF files so that you yours to have. This here on YouTube is just a sample. Now it's time to go to step four, which is We're going to take a look at the transcript that were used in this quick conversation. I homeschooled my children and that was a This expression, way back when, is beautiful that feels like a long time ago, maybe 20 ago, but it feels like a long time ago. You could say there was no internet way back Really, it wasn't even a lifetime ago, but Let's continue. Not the norm. Not the norm, this expression, the norm, as of normal, but we used the norm to talk about For example, in the US it's the norm to drive Let's continue. Yeah, that's kind of typical of the US though, Oh my goodness. What in the world is happening with do, do? Let's take a look. Let's look at the second do first. Here is the phrase to do things differently They do things differently in Japan. They do things differently in Argentina, and People do do things differently. In the US we use this word do to emphasize. I do like sushi, I do want to study English. And here the second verb just happens to be So it sounds a little strange, but it's correct. Let's continue. Yeah. Not everyone follows the same pattern. You might not have noticed Margie saying, I was speaking and this type of speech is We often interject while someone's speaking If you didn't understand those three words because they're new vocabulary for you. So this course is an excellent chance for level up your vocabulary at the same time. Now that we've used the four step listening the slow version, you've written down what transcript. Now it's time for the final exam. We're going to listen to the fast version the points that you might have missed before, that we say so that you can speak like that All right? Are you ready to listen to the fast version? You'll be amazed at how much you understand Let's listen. Margie: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Margie: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Margie: Vanessa: Margie: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Margie: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Margie: Vanessa: Margie: big thing way back when. Vanessa: Margie: Vanessa: that people do do things differently. Margie: Vanessa: How did you do with this four step listening understand fast English conversations? I hope you enjoyed it because we are about You will meet Christopher. Christopher speaks a little faster than Margie. Christopher uses different linking, different He has a different way of talking, so I challenge Level up your listening skills. You can do it. Let's watch. Jonathan: aced that one. And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Jonathan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. So, men's game went great, and I'm sure I And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Jonathan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. So, men's game went great, and I'm sure I And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Jonathan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. Vanessa: fast? Well, native English speakers and advanced You're going to hear this type of English having business meetings, having conversations So I want to help you take this in and understand Let's take a deep breath and we're going to You'll hear me and my husband, Dan, saying Jonathan say, but slowed down a lot. I hope you'll be able to understand each word if you couldn't write down all of the words Of course, feel free to pause this video as and really take advantage of this material. All right, let's listen to the slow version Dan: aced that one. And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Dan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. So, men's game went great, and I'm sure I And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Dan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. So, men's game went great, and I'm sure I And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Dan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. Vanessa: Well, if you join the 30-Day English Listening of the lessons each day and go back and review But for this lesson, you can just pause the So how was this? Was it too fast? Did the slow version help you? We're going to go on to the next step, which to learn some new words with this. There are three new words that you're going also going to be taking a look at some trouble you. Let's take a look at the transcript. So here you have the transcript of our conversation. I'm going to read it slowly and then go through short clip. First, Jonathan says, &quot;So, men's game went You can see at the bottom, there are three with each lesson, and this is one of them, That means that you did a great job. You might say, &quot;I aced my test, or I aced well.&quot; So you're talking about doing well. So he did a great job being a referee for going to happen. Let's go on to his next sentence, &quot;And the be easy.&quot; He uses another great expression, to come This is talking about something that's happening &quot;My birthday is coming up, or Christmas is It's going to be happening soon. It's coming up and it's going to be easy. Let's take a moment to look at the grammar He says, &quot;The women's game is coming up. It is going to be easy.&quot; Is he being a referee right then, as I'm having You can imagine probably not, this is talking but why does he use the present tense? The game is coming up. It is going to be easy. Well, this is a storytelling technique in tense to talk about something that happened they're right there in the action as it's So we go back and forth between the present that's what he does in his next sentence. He uses the past tense, let's move on. &quot;So I went out there and it wasn't,&quot; he went wasn't easy. &quot;It was the worst game I've ever had up until So he's contrasting the men and the women's The men's game went great, but the women's I put a little star here beside the word &quot;I've&quot;, He should have said, &quot;It was the worst game But I wanted to highlight this because native speaking, but they're still understandable, using a complex verb tense like have, ever That can be a little complex, and when you're about it. So I hope this gives you some peace of mind All right, let's go on to the short phrase about the worst game. I said, &quot;No way.&quot; Am I disagreeing with him? No, I wasn't there for that game. I'm not disagreeing with him. I'm just expressing shock. So we often use this expression to just say, For example, if you are walking down the street, find $20 on the sidewalk. You might tell your friend, &quot;I found $20 on And your friend would say, &quot;No way.&quot; They're not disagreeing with you. They're just saying, &quot;That's shocking. That's amazing.&quot; So they're being shocked at what you said. All right, let's go on to the last part of Jonathan says, &quot;I had, I think, five red cards, And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them.&quot; Here he uses some interesting filler words. He says, &quot;I think, five red cards.&quot; And then later on he says, &quot;I've probably This is quite common for conversation that expressions. It's very casual, it's very comfortable, and So if you didn't understand everything that during the slow version, it's possible that you. So I hope that today you're able to learn What we're going to do now is we are going but this time we're going to be looking at I want you to listen for his words and also I think you'll be pretty amazed that you're time, because you've studied the fast version, You've analyzed that clip with me so you know and now you can finally listen to it and your So let's listen to that fast clip a couple Let's watch. Jonathan: aced that one. And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Jonathan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. So, men's game went great, and I'm sure I And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Jonathan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. So, men's game went great, and I'm sure I And the women's game's coming up, and it's So I went out there and it wasn't. It was the worst game I've ever had up until Vanessa: Jonathan: cards, police were called. And so, I had to terminate the game. I've probably done, you know, eight, nine, five of them. Vanessa: Did you understand Christopher's fast conversation I hope so. Now, it is my pleasure to give you my top conversations. Digest these, write them down, sleep with I hope that this will be useful to you so conversations. Let's watch. All right, let's get started with the first Problem number one, don't watch a movie or only understand 10%. That's so frustrating. Instead, apply secret number one. Watch a movie or TV show that you already You are already familiar with the story, the If you need to use English subtitles, go ahead. But this is a great way to let go of fear, &quot;I can't understand. I only understand every couple words and it's No, watch something that you already know Have you seen Disney's Frozen in your native Great. Watch it in English. Have you seen Forrest Gump in your native Excellent. Watch it in English. This is a great way to feel more confident fast English. Problem number two, don't study how individual Instead, follow secret number two, which will And that is study some common linking expressions For example, if you ask me, &quot;Vanessa, where And I say, &quot;I'm unna go-da the moun'ins.&quot; Maybe you understood a couple parts of this, is happening so that when other people say can get it. Let's break down this sentence. &quot;I'm unna go-da the moun'ins.&quot; I'm unna, well, I'm really saying, &quot;I am going First I'm using a contraction. I am becomes I'm, and then I am pushing together becomes going to. &quot;I'm gonna take a nap, I'm gonna study English.&quot; But we can reduce it even further and cut what I said earlier. &quot;I'm unna, I'm unna...&quot; If you're listening for, I am going to, you But if you understand some common linking to becomes gonna or becomes unna, your ears Let's go to the last part of that sentence. &quot;I'm unna go-da the moun'ins.&quot; Go-da the mountains. Go-da, the word to becomes da. This is very common after the verb go, go-da &quot;I'm unna go-da school tomorrow.&quot; Go-da school. &quot;I go-da go to the office.&quot; Go-da to the office. Excellent. What's happening with that last word? Mountains, moun'ins. Well, often if there is a T plus in sound of swallow that sound. Listen to these other words that are very Button becomes bu'in, bu'in. Threaten becomes threa'in, threa'in. And mountain becomes moun'in, moun'in. Now, you can say this word clearly and say, Mountains. It's okay, but you're going to hear people You're going to hear people say mountains, We are all focusing on improving your listening how people are speaking in daily conversations. So with this one very simple sentence, you &quot;I'm unna go-da the mountains.&quot; Can you say that with me? Let's have a little pronunciation practice. Also, when you improve your pronunciation, So they're linked together. Let's say it together. &quot;I'm unna go-da the mountains. I'm unna go-da the mountains. I'm unna go-da the mountains. I'm unna go-da the mountains.&quot; Lovely. Problem number three is don't get discouraged. A lot of English learners try to watch something where people are speaking so comfortably in &quot;Please don't ask me a question. Please don't call on me to speak.&quot; Because they can't understand the conversation You feel like you'll never be able to actually So we need to just take it slow. I know we're talking about fast English here, English overnight. This is a journey. This is a process. So with a problem that a lot of English learners and they're not realistic about it. So let's see how secret number three can help Secret number three is to take some notes. Whenever you hear something fast, take a note it down on your phone. And when you learn one new quick phrase every time. So let me help you do this today. Take a look at this sentence. &quot;I gotta go.&quot; Well, if you're in a hurry and you're at a gotta go. I'm going to be late.&quot; This is a great phrase to use, but what's There are a lot of reductions, a lot of things We could say, &quot;I have got to go.&quot; This means I need to leave right now. I have got to go. But when we reduce that, we cut out, have But we don't pronounce the T, so we're going And in American English, the Ts change to Listen, when I say it, &quot;I gotta go. I gotta go. I gotta go. Sorry. I gotta go. I'm going to be late. I gotta go.&quot; Can you say that with me? &quot;Sorry, I gotta go. Sorry, I gotta go.&quot; Great. You just learned one normal and casual and You did it, great. So now I hope you feel a little bit less discouraged Mountain. Problem number four that I see a lot of my with yourself or your pet. This is a good starting point, but really need to speak with someone else. There is nothing like having a real time conversation Do you know what real time means? It means it's happening at that second. You can't pause and rewind and go back. No, if you don't understand at that second, going to need them to repeat. You're going to have to ask them, &quot;Sorry, Can you repeat it?&quot; Or you're just going to stand there and smile. So speaking with someone else in a real time skills and also help you to find the holes Maybe you can understand some topics, but I know that when I was living in France, as a lot of people, but for some reason there I could not understand him at all. There was ways that he was linking or reducing It was so challenging. And finally, when I could understand him, So it is essential to be able to have real-time If you feel like that might be a little too in a situation where you can find someone A good starting point is to check out my series, You can click on the link-up here. In these videos, I will give you some key have a little mini conversation practice together. The good thing about this type of practice also pause the video and go back and practice So I hope this will be a good tool to help somebody else. Problem number five that I see a lot of English on YouTube like this one. And while that's great, you can't only do real conversation listening skills, because Whether you're watching a TV show, whether you're talking with a client on the phone, clearly and understandably and understands Nope. It's important to step that up. So if you can already understand me pretty not. That's okay. What if we added one more person to my conversation? What if we added someone who speaks a little Check out this clip. See how you feel. Can you understand generally what we're talking Dan: Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: but those weren't that bad. Dan: Vanessa: What was it? Dan: Vanessa: Dan: So I don't know if you've ever seen this in place where somebody takes your picture and I was that guy. So we took the same pictures. It was going onto a boat in on one of the Vanessa: river cruise. Dan: Not high class at all. So people, before they got on the boat, we and we'd take their picture and it was required, more picture taken.&quot; Vanessa: Dan: where people already have phones on their I mean, that's at least getting more popular. Vanessa: Dan: And so I had to take everybody's picture and the side and said, &quot;Hey, come over here, buy And they were like $20 for one picture. Vanessa: Dan: Even I knew it was a terrible ripoff, just when I was doing that job. Vanessa: cool. Dan: Vanessa: But what if we added a different speaker who isn't so comfortable for you. Check out this clip and watch what we're saying. Brandi: that go into play and it takes... That's why, especially in this market, it's Vanessa: I pretty much guarantee we would never have Brandi: It's so cool to see. I always feel like people land in the right lose out on a few houses. It's always a bummer. But people always land in the place that they're And I always keep that heart when somebody It's just knowing that that wasn't the right Vanessa: happen, another place will come up. Was it a little bit more challenging? What about the next step? What if we took out the video completely and Check out this quick clip where you are going with my friend who's here in that past video, Listen. Brandi: You know it's a big chunk of change, but sometimes off your car than it is to put this towards So sometimes a lender, a good lender again guide you as to what makes the most sense want. Vanessa: Which part was the most difficult for you? Let me know in the comments. I'm curious to know what you have to say. Now imagine if you continued to improve your step listening method for 30 days. Would your listening skills improve a lot? Absolutely. Thousands of English learners around the world And if you join to by the end of the month, with 11 native English speakers and learn five to 10 minutes per day. By the end of the course, your listening skills you will be able to use this information and when you speak in English. It's great to understand the lessons, but into the real world and use it. That's the key. The 30-Day English Listening Challenge is You can click on the link in the description English learners today. Let's take a quick sneak peek inside the course When you join the 30-Day English Listening On day zero, you can find a course guide with a calendar so that you can check off each You'll feel so proud of yourself when that Let's take a look at day one. Here you can see the four step listening method, the worksheet that you can use to fill in And number four is the transcript with three A total of 90 new vocabulary words over 30 If you can easily understand my English lessons fast movies and TV shows in English, this There is a link in the description to join today. Well, thank you so much for learning English for a new lesson here on my YouTube channel. Bye. The next step is to join the 30-Day English You'll be on the right path to increasing English speakers. Don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel Thanks so much. Bye.