- Blower, LSD, muffler delete, heel-toe, blinker fluid. You've heard these terms but what do they all mean? Today, we're gonna look at some car terms that every car nerd needs to know. Easy noob stuff to expert level shop talk. How many do you know? Let's find out. Hey, big thank you to our friends at Keeps for sponsoring yet another Look, I may Keeps on of some car terms in this episode, but one thing I don't need to worry about is messing up my hair. I know, thanks to Keeps I'm able to Keep these luscious locks of car knowledge, because I don't wanna be one that'll experienced some by the time they're 35, I really don't. Keeps makes it super easy to hold on to that precious hair of yours by having a virtual doctor visit and shipping your hair loss medication straight to your door every three months. How easy is that? It's very easy. So if you're ready to take go to keeps.com/wheelhouse50, or click the link in the description to receive 50% off your first order. That's K-E-E-P-S.com/wheelhouse50. Thank you so much, Keeps, Now, let's Keep this episode going. Be a gearhead is a lifetime pursuit. No matter how many wrenches you turn, how much gas you breathe, how many engine blocks do there's always something to learn. Sometimes it's intimidating because you literally don't So we've made it easy on Let's start with an easy one. A muffler is like a big that muffles noise and from sounding like a Harley Davidson. Like I said, we're gonna start easy. This list is going to ramp up. A resonator is a device that It acts as a sort of echo so the muffler can silence it. It's usually the fat looking like that big, You know what I'm talking about, right? What's up with that part Downpipe in older cars refers to a pipe that carries exhaust to the rest of the exhaust system. In a turboed engine, from the turbine to the Moving on to the chassis. A unibody is when the car's chassis is a single piece of metal born perfect and beautiful. This is in contrast to a ladder frame, which is employed by most A ladder frame uses frame And then you've got some cross members and it makes the whole ladder When it comes to fuel delivery, cars either have carburetors, or more commonly nowadays, fuel injection. I don't think a car has since like the mid '80s. In a carbureted engine, comes together before it moves into the cylinders. And direct fuel injection shoots the fuel straight CEL is the check engine Just the side of this light can strike fear into the hearts Sometimes it looks like this, which can be confusing We prefer this one. It's FWD, or front wheel drive, the front wheels drive the car, obviously, RWD is rear wheel drive, and 4WD, it's four wheel drive, which means your car is to all four wheels when they need it either automatically Basically, 4WD can operate as either two or four wheel drive. AWD or all wheel drive means to all the wheels at all the same time. Torque is the measurement measured in pounds feet. If you hold a 12 inch ruler in one hand and put a one pound you're twisting with one A lot of hype is given to horsepower, which is how quickly it can do work. But torque is also extremely how quickly you can get out of the hole or get out of a turn or All right, so now we're gonna get into some more general engine terms that have to do with engine layout. You've heard of I4, I6, V6, When someone refers to a what does that mean? Well, they're referring to of cylinders in the engine. This is a straight six, because the cylinders are straight up and down. This is a V6 because the cylinders are arranged in a V shape. This is a Chrysler slant six, where all the cylinders I'm a six because only 40% F-F and F-R describe front and front or rear wheel drive. For example, F-R is front R-R is rear engine rear wheel drive, as well as the sound, a seal makes. (seal honks) And FFA is front engine, all wheel drive. Bondo is a body putty. You can use it to fill You can sand it down. You can do a bad job with it and make your car look like (beep), and then just say, screw it Whatever you do though, don't use it for structural integrity. W-O-T, WOT or wide open throttle. It's when you've got the pedal throttle opens up all the way. You don't have time to say the whole term. So you've just got to abbreviate it. WOT. WOT. When you hear someone say N/A, they're saying naturally aspirated. This refers to any engine into the cylinders with Speaking of naturally aspirated, one of my favorite engine terms is HEMI, and it's not just a name for Chrysler V8. Hemi refers to the shape of the hemispherical combustion Before the Chrysler Hemi's most car manufacturers which got the job done, Hemispherical heads, on the other hand, allowed for the use of much larger valves, which increased airflow which always increases power. There's a lot more to the Hemi than I can get into right now, so to learn more about it, check out are up to speed on the Hemi. It's one of my favorite Turbochargers and superchargers They're both essentially pumps that compress additional air fuel mix into the cylinder before combustion. Turbochargers are powered by the energy from the exhaust gas, while superchargers are driven by a belt connected to the crankshaft. Spinney boi is slang for a turbocharger. There are also a million other we got whooshie boys, snails, turbine. You can probably just make And if you say it with enough confidence, people will believe you. Here at Donut we call them spinny boys. Blow off valve. Even if you don't know this term, you've definitely heard Sometimes they're called BOVs These take the load off the turbo, when the throttle is suddenly closed. Without a blow off valve, there just be a lot of and closed throttle. So the blow off valve (car rumbles) Now, when it comes to superchargers, there are three different types of them. I like to refer to them as blowers. Roots is the heaviest and It looks the coolest, but It has nothing to do it's just named after Twin screw superchargers use two screws to squeeze the air into the engine. They usually sit on top of Do not Google twin screw Central fugal superchargers of the blower boys. They use a spinning and as a result, they They can be mounted on which is kind of a bummer, because then you don't get You might've heard of X-pipe While these two will make your the main benefit these is a balancing effect between Exhaust pressure can build and an X- or H-pipe can and flow better through They also sound really (car rumbles) A cat is your catalytic converter. It's another exhaust device that reduces the amount of This is one thing you They get stolen all the time. And if you steal catalytic converters, please just get a job instead. A lot of people actually do because they think they reduce power. That kind of used to be true, when cats first came on the scene, but nowadays they're very efficient and don't offer much benefit So don't do that. Plus you can't pass them off. A delete is when you just You hear people say that or a cat delete. And all that means is they're probably not gonna A sleeper is a car that looks but it's built like a racer on the inside. The trick is lull opposing racers into a false sense of security, not realizing what's under the hood. Our boys Tony Angelo and probably built the coolest the Maliby, I got to drive And it was the sickest thing ever. I love sleepers. I love a good sleeper. Let's talk about some suspension stuff. A solid axle or a live axle is when an axle is one rigid It's durable, but if one wheel bumps, the whole axle will be effective. They're extremely strong, They're also great for drag racing. A torsion beam rear The wheels are offset from the axle, so the car's weight creates torsion, which compresses these springs A MacPherson strut It's basically a spring for Double wishbone suspensions than the straight strut designs and they result in better handling, thanks to these two lateral control arms that look like the cape wishbone wears when he's dressed as Sherlock Holmes, hence double wishbone. Multilingual suspensions look like this: a complicated mess of links in every which way. This design is super customizable, as these links can be replaced to tune your suspension Camber is the angle made by the wheels, sitting on the ground, Wheels straight up and and thus no swag. These wheels have like 20 and these wheels have 90 which mathematically is swag to the max. Camber angle has a direct effect on how much grip your tires have. So if you want to really grippy set up, you're not gonna want a (beep) Whereas, if you'd want you're definitely gonna Me personally, I'm a So I don't want to have a lot of camber, but I can appreciate a good (chuckles) Yes! Double clutching is when with the speed of the gear You put the clutch in shift to give the engine some put the clutch back in, shifted the next gear AFR is the air fuel ratio. Basically, the mix of air and If you're using more you're running rich, which And if you're not using enough gas, you're running lean, and you might notice bad And it's usually pretty When you strike the it's like Goldilocks It just feels so right. Hey man, he's got up a Let's talk about the different types of horsepower ratings you might've seen. Brake horsepower, wheel what does all that mean? Brake horsepower, or BHP, actually delivered at the crank shaft, which is why some people say to the crank. Brake horsepower is different or how much power actually A notable amount of power is lost, when going from the engine into the wheels. You've probably heard of limp mode, which is a safe mode for your car. If any number of sensors goes off, limp mode kicks in, which to around 2,000 RPM and keeps If your car goes into limp mode, you'd kind of have no choice, but to walk of shame it to a mechanic, so they can identify which Here's some manual transmission terms. Heel-toe is a tricky and very with a manual transmission. In the middle of a downshift, you brake and hit the using your heel and your toe. Try this one in your buddy's Rev matching is when you blip the gas to match the RPM difference and the transmission during a shift. You can actually do this without a clutch. if you do it smoothly enough, I can not. Rev hang is when you push in and decrease gradually. Car manufacturers program it to keep your car from creating that are product of quick gear changes. I know that sounds crazy, Car throttle has a good article on it, I'll leave a link in the description. A money shift is when and you accidentally More specifically on money and then back to one hitting instead of hitting third, shooting your RPMs into the stratosphere and likely causing a lot Final drive is the and ring gear in the differential A lower final drive ratio but a higher top speed will do the opposite. LSD stands for limited slip differential. It's a kind of rear differential even if one of them loses traction. It results in a smoother and makes it possible to do big old smoky skids and burnouts. CVT stands for continuously which is belt or chain driven The belt connects angled to essentially change The car doesn't need to shift Cars that CVTs accelerate much smoother, since there aren't steps in between gears. Does it feel weird to Yeah, and it does. And people don't really like Blinker fluid is a lubricating agent that helps silence that annoying If you hear that tick tock sound, you're probably not taking take it to the shop immediately. Or if you fancy yourself you can change your I recommend Dirty Dirk's blinker drink. It's made from real snake oil and we're proud to have them as a sponsor. A transaxle is one big box axle and differential They were invented to save serious space for FF and RR vehicles. They're also used in some FR vehicles for weight distribution. Racing from a dig means starting also known as racing. Racing from a roll means starting a race while the cars are already moving. A shout out to 1320 video. Check out their channel for Ground effect is an aerodynamic principle of race car design. You shape the car so that when pressure create a downward giving you better traction. Firing order is the order in For example, in this six cylinder engine, the firing order is one The firing orders are between the left and right cylinder banks, as well as the front and Rod knock. If you hear a repetitive that sounds like this, might be rod knock. Your piston is connected to a rod, which is then connected There are bearings at each end, and if you run too low on oil or just go to ham on your engine, you can damage that rod bearing, which means metal on metal contact. Your engine might be toast. So rest in peace. There it is a bunch of car How many did you know already? Let me know in the comments. Now you know all of them. So feel free to ask your mechanic for Dirty Dirk's blinker Obviously, I missed a ton of them. We're probably going to in the future, so if there's something you'd like to hear more about, let me know in the comments below. if you haven't subscribed please consider subscribing. We put out a bunch of videos we worked really hard on it for you. We want to be inclusive. We want to help you learn follow Donut on also Follow me at nolanjsykes. I post pictures sometimes. Be kind, I'll see you next time.