So over the last ten years, I study over 100 books on time I picked up ten super simple habits that have transformed the way These habits are really easy to implement, As a business owner or a content creator I know what it's like to feel overwhelmed. But these habits, balance my family time, Doing workouts, reading, relaxing, What I like about it and by the end of the video, you'll see Have a number. One is work in flight mode So before your flight, It's the same thing with work. Preparation really is everything. So the night before, the three most important ones Not a long laundry list. Because I would just get really I write them down either in my notebook So when I sit down to work, I don't waste Just like when you're required on the plane, you should do the same thing So I put my phone on And one trick I love is setting on so only my daughter, school and close Everything else And once you set up, your focus is time And that brings me to. Schedule your time in blocks. So imagine a day like a pizza. Every slice represents Work, exercise, cooking, family By blocking out your day, you're deciding So I schedule my day in 30 minutes So everything has its place. So, for example, my calendar but is filled with intentional blocks journaling, and also lots of family time My daughter. And I even block out time for winding down Now, without these blocks, And deep work where this system really prevents that overwhelm and helps me to be Your schedule might look different, blocking can change So once you've mapped out your day, which will supercharge your productivity. And that is. That similar tasks together. One thing I learned is that multitasking really When I try to switch between unrelated paying bills, or doing laundry you can fit it all in. I ended up scattered So instead, I'll set aside to pay all the bills, I work on one project at a time before And when it comes to cooking, for the whole week so And I think if you're cooking anyway, it doesn't take extra effort just to cook I also like to batch what I do So Monday and Friday while Thursdays are more reserved And this really helps me to stay focused for longer periods. So batching similar activities together makes everything So again, your scheduling situation but using this concept can help And once you got your task under control, which will help you for your mental space And that is. Automate repetitive tasks. So I think automation Think about all the tasks that you do So many of them can be automated. So for example, I set up subscriptions for household items So trash bags, soap, laundry detergents, And I don't have to think about rewarding. And financially, into savings and investments I don't have to make the decision It just happens automatically And really help me to build that wealth over time So I really recommend writing down and look for ways to automate them, can free up so much of your time and once you start to do more automation, But I think the real magic happens when And that is work during your power hours. So we all have certain time of the day focused, and energized. Some of you might be early risers, Some of you might get much more energy So you could be when the night owls. And for me, my most productive window is right So from about 9 a.m. to about 11:30 a.m. in the morning. This is the time That's when to tackle my most demanding working on strategy documents, But usually by about 1130, And that's why I grab a light lunch. I hit the gym and recharge. And then I can get another two more hours So my 4:00 I focus on shallow work like And by spending my downtime relaxing, reading or just journaling. So if you work during your power hours, you'll find that you're going to get a lot Speaking of maximizing your power hour, it's really crucial And that's where notion comes in. Who is also the sponsor of this video? I first discovered notion while searching thoughts, my schedules, my goals, and really what I found was So it became my organization Allow me to structure my life He has a really clean interface, ready for you to shape it into So whether that's for writing, maybe you want to use it for brainstorming So if you want to take control I highly recommend checking out notion I'll also be sharing my personal notion in terms of staying super focus in last year. back, it's And one of the simplest ways to boost your productivity And that is. Setting a timer. Now this strategy is so simple, but Set a timer for a specific task. So let's say for 20, 30 or 50 minutes. And knowing that the clock is ticking, it really keeps you accountable So if you get up to use the bathroom pause the timer This helps you stay really locked in And speaking of distractions one. The easiest way to avoid them And that is. Procrastinate We all been there, right? You're in the middle of your focus work, And you can't help it. But you want to check what it is. Before you know it, you lost 30 minutes I've been there The best solution for this I save responding to text and messages so maybe when I'm on the commute back and that way, I give full attention And I get back to messages when ready. But if you want to create more space, This brings me to this really important Say no more often. So when you get a new piece of work ask yourself, For example, I'm not a designer, to freelancers who can help me do a faster Or if you're working in a company, who have worked on similar and resources on how to do it I think it's all about knowing your So when you delegate the rest, And it's not just work, right? To say no to social commitments that you don't want to go to So you can actually enjoy Jomo, So productivity expert If it's not a hell yes, it's a no. By saying no more often, what really matters. saying no to distractions is one thing, but physical clutter And that's why And that is. Be organized Think about how much time you waste So this happens to me And so frustrating. I used to waste 10 to 20 minutes searching for them all over the place which makes it so stressful. So I thought, enough is enough. I create a system, a tray for keys a box, my wallet, and my gym bag Now everything has its place and I don't It's a really small habit, And it saves time And once you free up all this time, Instead of working more? And this brings me to this next habit, Make appointments with yourself. So if you want to develop habits meditating, by actually scheduling it So I schedule a time for my wind down because I was so frustrated, And because it's only 15 minutes also doing reading and journaling, and just overall well-being. The key here is that you want to block out just like you would Because if it's not in your calendar, And I want to let you know that productivity isn't just about squeezing It's about cutting out the non-essentials. And also making room And only you know that And you know where So what will you do with the extra time from implementing these habits? Let me know in the comments below. And over here, this is a video to help with the shift And I think you will find these Thanks for being here