Powering up this phone we get two options. Music phone which demands a SIM card be inserted. a SIM card to even start. Too bad if you needed or you put it in another phone. Fortunately I have one in and access this phone. Now it says insert and it thinks it can challenge me. I'm going to software. This software only works with special made one of these in my last video. Unfortunately new firmware into my K750. I don't think it's my K750. OK, SEMC Tool do your thing and remove then it throws an error CXC version not supported. longer turning on. I've killed my Sony Ericsson still responding to the flashing and unlocking new firmware into the phone to get it working it's time to give this a try. The flashing It's looking good, the flash files are accepted by I get this CXC version not supported error I shouldn't be using this cracked version of software and try and fix my dead phone. This Ericsson flashing software. And I really like thing. And just like that the flashing process look at that! The phone is working again! initial setup process required after flashing. locked and XS++ doesn't have the ability to and despite having an option for unlocking I was unable to unlock this phone at this stage. properly and that my phone is turning on again. though. It says Network Locked and 505-01. Which than a specific SIM card. And 505-01 is Telstra. unlocking this phone and find an old Telstra card this phone to a point where I can try it out This colour variant is called fusion The first first thing I'm going to do is try some bit darker, and there's a ton of themes to choose the layout of the menu. Such as this one that But I think I'll go with something classic Hmm, I've noticed there's and it won't sit completely flat on a table. the punch on their features. I want And the shutter sound is really loud on it off. Because there are laws in some countries sounds. Such as in Japan or South Korea. Not phones with these laws. Speaking about recording was useful for another feature on the phone and text and videos to make something different feature there. I'm also curious about the 3D games that came on the K750. There are a fun kind of Flappy Bird Style game. and it's a fairly standard falling pieces style in this model instead of the awesome 3D games that it was more mobile friendly to have these instead. games. I just have to copy some games to my dual last video. And if you're wondering how this volume. I did a quick check and found that one of GB instead of its actual capacity of 2 GB. While system. So this adapter must be just joining possible. OK, I've got some games on here now. called Deep Submarine Odyssey by Fish Labs. I has some unique mechanics, and the game itself has I'm curious to spend some time with it and see if the Nokia logo on a Sony Ericsson. Next I'm trying a decent puzzle game. I'm not yet sure about the lot of game suggestions in the comments. Many of enjoy reading all the comments. Next up is Fantasy game. I like the way the game uses eight-way direction ring for navigation. This is a huge reliability. The direction ring has proven to be admit though it's a bit bittersweet. Because when in games. I much prefer it to this ring. Fantasy Zelda like. Speaking of Zelda, there's a Zelda done on bringing Zelda to this platform. I wonder City game called Sim City Societies. It's licensed be really dedicated to play Sim City on this form Labs game from the creators of Deep Submarine to it. This one is very hard to play. Though I more fun game to play is Diamond Rush. Thank you really nice mining puzzle game. With a great I like to play on these sort of devices. With I also found a copy of Marble Madness. This is a a little bit tricky to control though. I'm really An interesting aspect of this game is that it has up onto my K750 and try some multiplayer. I over Bluetooth 2.0, and then run the game on that the game starts up much faster on the W810. or the CPU is actually slightly faster on the CPU in the K750 probably ran at about 110 ARM CPU inside might be closer to 200 MHz on one of the phones has to be designated the server we go I've now got multiplayer Bluetooth Marble awkwardly playing both sides. I'm going to other things you could do with Bluetooth. Such as For example Bluejacking, sending small messages to more shady things like Bluesnarfing, for remotely completely taking over and controlling a victim's browser are useful for testing to see how secure that the K750 is secure. These sorts of Bluetooth models. Which I'll have to test one day. OK, let's this I'm just going to be using the included need to do firmware hacking on these models. To using this to put the phone into an internal file removing the shutter sound on the camera, getting or even uploading new camera drivers to give very popular hacks to do on Sony Ericsson phones. Unfortunately development stopped on XS++ before instead switching to a different software for Far Manager (SEFP or JDflasher). I spent a lot and getting it all working. Once you get and very powerful. With the phone connected or 'ofs' for original flashing and 'bflash' and system access. Breakin is sort of similar to the full access to the phone system for modification. in the modding scene days. Like Hendrix who for everyone. I find it interesting the way this your phone to get to the rewards inside. It's such where you are trying to break out of a Walled with the break-in flash mode now activated, I've things get good. Earlier when I flashed this phone version R4EA031. And that's because this is the patches available. Which can be used to tweak From changing the system font to expanding for bypassing any SIM locks or network locks. But allowing access to the phone without any SIM card Flash Plugin is giving a lot of information about SEMC Tool originally bricked this phone. This is a special break-in bootloader to get full access to the phone, the phone won't start up normally. file system access. Afterwards you have to flash a SEMC Tool had an error, it left the phone with phone. Firmware patching is really awesome and but next I want to try something even better. And that run at the same access level as the firmware two firmware patches. One of them hooks into the is a library of useful functions. And you have system. All these files were really hard to find, But eventually I found dan po's original page exact files I needed. Thank you to dan po for for saving it. OK, I've loaded a number of Elves I'm running is Boxman. And this is an interesting out a bit more. It's worth noting that this is system instead of inside a Java sandbox. A good snow graphics all over the main screen. This is extension to the inbuilt firmware. Elves run with itself. There are other Elves such as CPUmon, There are so many Elves on here to try out, and on here to get started with some testing. There's layout of the main menu. Though at this stage I'm really know what I'm doing, so I'm just pressing properly because now the main menu has disappeared Fortunately I can just restart the phone to get by putting them in the demon folder on the memory remove the card and restart the phone. There's to start reading these instructions for most of Russian, and have to be translated for an English version of Tetris. Though not quite Tetris, A lot of these Elves come from a Russian website modding forums. There are a lot of Elves that I've the phone. And I have to take the battery out to or some have been written for later Sony Ericsson wanting to try for a really long time. And that's see running on this phone. Unfortunately there's for Elves has always been quite limited. Also I to get the controls to work to actually play the see this running in demo mode on this phone. Ericsson modding experience. I still have a I want to try. But that will have to wait for way to connect these phones to the internet over run a third party browser like Opera. There are try out one day. In particular I'd love to get a the last video. There's been a huge number of loved their phones. It's actually way more than thank you or all your comments, and sharing your videos lots of fun. I have lots more videos And if you had a Nokia or a Siemens phone back one day in future videos. But until then, that's