I am really excited to finally share this It took me quite a while to get everything So, you may be confused seeing a 1 hour video, Don't be, just to set your expectations in it. It's not one of those cooking under 3 minutes I am going to cover pretty much all the aspects cycle, process groups, knowledge areas, WBS, So, it's basically a 10 hour course condensed So, my mission with this mini-course is to for you. Essentially, project management is fun but It's not a profession on its own. It's not like accounting, auditing, or even Project Management is a complementary discipline As simple as that. And the best part is pretty much all professionals from it. So, who is this video for? This video is for you if you want to learn So, it's applicable to every single professional I have never seen any professional in my 10 run a project. It just so happens that sometimes they don't But they were projects indeed. So, if you are looking for a simple enough and implement at work, then you are on the By the end of this video, I am confident that as a skill in your resume. Also, this video is for you if you are preparing the PMBOK guide will be a lot easier to understand. See, the PMBOK guide is over 500 pages long. It's a very long book and quite boring I Obviously, I can't share everything in this But if you watch this video without skipping, for you. Because, it's all about understanding the Once you understand the fundamentals, everything When I took my PMP exam, now around 6 years I scored one of the highest points at that And the only reason why I scored so high was on the contrary, I just understood the fundamentals. And once you understand the building blocks, So, I suggest you watch the entire video without certain elements only, then you can look at Let's get started. What is even a project? It definitely has a sexy tone to it right? Project... I just love the way it sounds. I wonder how cool it must sound in French. Proje... Well, project is a temporary endeavor to create Yeah that's operations. No operations is fairly simple. A project ends. So, it's temporary. You implement your project, you close it, outcome you wanted then you are done. Whereas in operations, it's on-going and You may have also heard about the terms program Let me just quickly explain them here. Program is multiple projects put together. Combined. And Portfolio is similarly. Multiple programs put together. So, it's project, program, portfolio. Now before I go further, and dive deep. You need to understand something crucial. To run any project, you need 2 methodologies. The first one is a project life cycle and Most people confuse these 2. And if these are not clear, you can kiss the It's absolutely amazing how many content They are not interchangeable. You cannot afford to confuse a project life Don't worry I am going to make it very simple Let's start with Project Life Cycle. Project Life Cycle is unique to a project, It's highly customizable. Think of it like this; a human development So, your life cycle is; 2) Birth 4) Teenage hood. Teenage hood. Is that a word? Teenaging? 5) Adulthood Easy stuff right? So, now if it was an IT project. I am not an IT but it would like something High level design Coding Installation This is project life cycle. The term cycle is a bit confusing here. Because, after you die, you don't get to I think. But who knows. Or once you hand over the product to the client, So, it's not actually a cycle. It's just a confusing term they use. It's sequential. It's a sequential steps of various phases And these phases are unique to your own project, A project life cycle may have 1 phase or multiple There is no single way to define the ideal For example, one company may treat a feasibility may treat it as a third phase, or another So, it's custom made. I know I said multiple times, custom made, why I had to repeat it multiple times. Just be patient. Ok, now let's talk about the 2nd element And that's the Project Management Process, See, if you are following PMI's Project groups aren't quite customizable. The processes inside the group are, but not You can't change their order. So, we have 5 process groups to learn here. We have Initiation, planning, executing, monitoring These are kind of set in stone. You don't play around with them that much. Now, here is where all the confusion arises. For those of you, who are interested in taking biggest reason why most test takers fail. And it's all because of confusing this, It's so confusing that even most of the in YouTube or the blog posts, or the books Remember how we talked about the fact that Now, what we do in real life is, for small Instead of attaching process groups to every Conceiving - initiation, planning, execution, Birth - initiation, planning, execution, Etc process groups to a single phase project life This makes things really easy to run the project. Less complication. I mean why make things more complicated than There is so much paper work involved. But here is the confusing part, this doesn't project life cycle. Your project life cycle isn't initiation, If you don't get this right, I guarantee Now we are going to talk about the process will also run a project for you to demonstrate But before I get there, I want to share something It's about PMP, If you are looking to get and get better jobs, don't. Don't do that. It won't really help you as much as you Learn project management, it's awesome. Everybody should learn project management. But don't you think that by getting a piece not going to happen. It may even be detrimental. Because, PMI's project management is just terminology they use is very different than So, Instead of spending 100s of hours and even use, I suggest you check out my LIG program achieve the career you deserve. It sounded a bit like an advertisement break I am very passionate about my LIG program Go to The Career Mastery.com and you'll Because, as I said most multinational firms So, you'll have to unlearn a lot of things For example, my employer PwC Consulting has we deliver. It's the best in the world and miles better So, your future employer will have its own But still, learn the fundamentals, learn everything IS AWESOME. It's an incredible practice but a certificate vs reward equation. You want to a better job? that's not the You just don't know some of the hidden strategies And one final point on this, I have a pretty If you don't get the results or the jobs work with you free of charge to get you to Ok, sorry for the break. I felt compelled to share that. Let's start with the first process group; Let's do it. To make things very grounded, I will use the the process groups. I could give you examples from my work history. Obviously, as a manager at PwC Consulting, But it would create a few problems. 1) I am under strict client confidentiality We had our own internal methodology to follow. So, I think using this boat. Designing and manufacturing this boat as an simple. Now, this applies to project management as For initiation process group, you have 2 important First process is that you develop a project And 2nd process is you identify stakeholders. Let's start with Project Charter outlining a few things. It's like mini project plan. Very simple one though. Essentially, you are finding an answer to; So, in my case, if I have to develop a project my objectives, scope, rough idea for the cost That's pretty much it. At the initation stage, you don't want the We need the details later for planning stage. Speaking of later stages, can you do me a you please subscribe to my channel. Because if you don't YouTube will not show So, in your case, your project charter may the expansion to foreign markets, why you I'll repeat once more. This is not the time to go into huge details. Talk about the business case and maybe high and roles and responsibilities. But I'd like to emphasize something here. If your project isn't a very large one, in it. Then you would ask, why do it? I mean if it's not detailed nor comprehensive, Why even waste time to prepare it? And if you asked that, it would be a very The reason we do that is to have a buy-in. Support from the leadership to spend more I mean, as a principle, are you - MY DEAR this project a bit more? It's a checkpoint. Your project sponsor may not want this project If they say no, you don't start planning. And my friends, planning is no easy task. So, it's a great opportunity for the senior you spend so much time planning a project Maybe they don't want to expand into a new new factory. So, they kill it off early on. But I want to open a deep note here. And contradict myself a little. What you need to do, or how much detail you initiation heavily depends on your project So, if a project is as say creating International will include a lot more details. It'll be almost like high-level planning. And the reason for that is because planning is over 10 billion dollars. Just the planning. So, it will require you to present a lot more an approval for a "go-ahead". Ok, I hope so far so good. Let's move on. The 2nd process for initiation process group At this stage, you will again keep it very You will not categorize all the stakeholders You'll do that later in planning. Now, as I mentioned before, we just want to It's a checkpoint. So, all you do is, create an excel list and engage with. The fancy name for this is Stakeholder Register. In my case, my stakeholders will be; She'll be my sponsor. Then my neighbors because I'll do a lot So, I'll make a lot of noise. Therefore, I need to include them as my stakeholders. For most projects, your primary stakeholder Who is your sponsor? Who gives you the go or no-go? Who is the project manager? Who are going to be part of the project team? Who are going to be part of project management Ok, now we have the project charter and project Of course provided that you secure the approvals. Now, we have initiated the project, we got Plan the project. Planning is a lot more detailed and comprehensive We are going to need to talk about some knowledge So, I suggest you take a break now. Pause the video, go get a cup of coffee, refresh Or you can just bookmark this video, and watch Ok? Let's start. So, with planning, we are looking to find What are we going to do? How are we going to do it? How to know when the project is done? At the end of the planning process, you'll And this project plan will include a few items; Work Breakdown Structure (or as we call it We'll have schedule, some form of a timelines, And Quality. For those PMP takers, let me put a disclaimer PMBOK guide includes more processes with their I am simplifying things for you here. Let me repeat, if you plan on taking the test you'll fail. I am simplifying everything for you so you Once you understand these fundamentals, everything Let's get going with; requirements, what stakeholders want". I mean what do you really want? If you remember, we did this with the project So, we'll just take the project charter what we wrote in project charter, and give See, in my boat building project this is super matter. Me and my wife. But if this was a very large project, then primary stakeholders and make sure you include How do you know who the stakeholders are? Well, remember the stakeholder registry? See, This isn't a very easy task. I mean collecting requirements is the easiest But the difficult part is maintaining your Because, the moment you start gathering requirements, best of everything without consideration for And they'll have contradicting requirements. There'll be clashes. And especially at this stage, you don't yet. So, you need to somehow gather the requirements And that's no easy task. If my wife comes up to me and says, hey let's It's time. She asks What car do you want? The first car I'll say, I want Porsche 911 I won't consider the family budget, or maintenance I'll just say what I want. That's how it is in project management as When you ask what your stakeholders want, So, as a project manager, you have to keep there are always trade-offs in life. Just a small tip here; when you are collecting to you; you can do 1 on 1 interviews, you group technique or other methods. If you ask me, and if you can, just stick Get everyone in a room or on a teleconference If you do interviews 1 by 1, then you'll your hand. Get everyone together, and let them argue your requirements set in stone. Next process is Defining the Scope what is not included in the project. Just like the term; scope... You can only see limited things looking through To do that, we need a few documents, we need The one we did during initiation. Then we need the requirements document the we can collect about risks, assumptions, and Now, defining the scope is one of the most Because what happens in reality is, weak project requirements document and also in the project So, as a result your project plan just becomes It's actually their fault. If they stood up to project stakeholders during So, when you are doing your scope statement, you'll be responsible to execute. Try not to go overboard. Your project scope statement may include product acceptance criteria, what is not part of the The more specific you get the better it is. You shouldn't include anything that is open Now, we are done with our project scope, let What is this now? Scope Baseline. So, scope baseline is composed of 3 things; 2) Then, we need Work Break Down Structure. I'll refer to it as WBS from now on. 3) And finally we need WBS Dictionary. Don't worry, these are very simple stuff. And in fact, WBS is really fun to do. Ok, since we already have the scope statement, Now, I want to stop you for a second and make You can't afford to misunderstand WBS. Work Breakdown Structure is almost the core Whatever project methodology like Prince 2 always have some form of Work Breakdown structure. it's important, REALLY really important. You can't afford to misunderstand this part. So, I suggest you take another break now. Go get some fresh air and come back when you Good. So, before I start creating a WBS for the The WBS breaks the project into smaller and It's a top-down effort. You basically just decompose your deliverables. Then we call them Work Packages. Now, I want to highlight one more important If you are strictly following PMI's framework, They can't be actions. They need to be deliverables, they can be things... You know... Completed things... Not actions. In practice though, this isn't usually how Most people use a hybrid model, their work but also even tasks. So, if you are not taking the test, then just Whatever makes you feel comfortable and whatever How deep you go in levels is all about an Can you confidently estimate the cost and Can you say it'll take 1 week or 1,000 dollars? Can you answer that questions? If you can't then you need to break it down some cost and time assumptions. For example, when I look at this boat, I can't But I can estimate how long it will take to So, go as deep as you need to go. So, let's do it. Let's do the WBS,. You start with the project name as level 1, work components. So, in my case, my segments are; (rigging is the mast, sails, lines, the whole Then we need to put labels on them. So these can be 1.1 for design, 1.2 for manufacturing, Now this is still too high level right? When I look at this graph, can I estimate Can I say for example, how much it'll cost No. This means we need to break it down further. Now for project this small, I don't need project you may need to put in sub segments So, let me start attaching my work packages; My work packages are; But Deniz, you said no activities, it had Ok, you are right, let's rename it; "Acquired Good? - Design adjusted for scaling down. You can't just take a design for a 20 metre It won't sail well. So, I need to increase the volume. - Final design completed. This is actually where I actually design it There is actually one more thing here. I actually have to know how to design. I had to read a few books here. So, for manufacturing; my work packages are; 2nd work package procure them Then, I'll create sub segments here. - Framing the hull Then another work package, is that I need Again 2 sub segments here; Then another work package here is, deck assembly, The final work package as part of manufacturing Cosmetics include sanding and painting. Now, let's move on to Electronics; and procure them. I'd like to merge them under one work package investment at this level. Second work package is; assembly. Next move on to next segment, rigging. Rigging is this whole part, the mast, the shrouds, mainsheet, the battens, the whole For this segment, my work packages are; list. Again, because I can estimate easily, I don't 2) Electronics installed Now, for rigging. I need to decide on materials and procure Then obviously I need to install the items. Now for testing; and I need to have a pool trial to make sure all is fine, then I'll have the sea trials. I just want to repeat one more thing here I want to know talk about the importance of Everything happens after WBS in our planning For example, project costs, schedule, risks, We do not calculate the costs or the schedule We do that at work package level using the Before we move on to other processes, I want Do you remember Scope Baseline? Hmm? Do you remember what it was consisted of? Let me just remind you once more; It's project scope statement WBS And WBS Dictionary the WBS dictionary. Once we have it, then our project scope baseline Ok, what's this dictionary thingy. Imagine this, if we don't define these work scope creep. What is scope creep? Scope creep is basically, scope extending Remember the Porsche 911 GT3 that I wanted So, that Porsche 911 GT3 becomes GT3 RS - basically So, if you don't control and keep the leash Stakeholders will always push you to do more So, as a project manager, you have to prevent Especially in the planning stage, because, it. In simple terms, WBS dictionary is what puts as a result, scope can't be stretched. Now, I am going to talk about Time management, For those of you who are preparing for a PMP knowledge areas including human resources, and procurement. I am not going to cover them here for a few 1) I don't think they need explanation. They are fairly easy to understand once you And 2) They are very intuitive. You don't need me to teach you about procurement The only exception to this is Risk Management. That's not very easy. But I won't talk about risk management here on it. I don't want to spend an hour running risk Plus, for most of you running small projects I mean you are aware of the risks, but you on preparing risk registers. So, I'll focus on - in my opinion - more Alright, let's continue, let's continue Now we need to go back to our WBS. And start giving estimates for how long a Here's an important point for you. If you can't confidently estimate how long you should break down your WBS further to This part is fairly easy and fun to do. You just need to sit down with your project Once you are done estimating these, the other in a sequence. Now, for PMP takers, you need to resort to start, start to finish, etc. In reality, in practice, we do it with help It makes things very easy to layout. It also gives us the critical path which is For everyone else who are managing relatively Projects software. All you need at this stage is a Gantt Chart. Gantt chart is awesome. It makes things so simple. Gantt chart is a very easy way to list activities Each work package or activity is represented bar shows us the start date, duration, and You can use MS Projects, MS Excel, or even It really depends on how complex your project Our project here isn't particularly a complex for it. There is a high likelihood that your project just do it manually in PowerPoint. If you are still with me by this point, please Yeah please do that. Shooting these videos aren't easy, it's So if you subscribe and hit that bell icon If you don't then YouTube won't show my Oh you can also download all the templates in the description box. You may need to register though. I am not sure. I haven't figured it out how to do it yet. Sorry, I digress. If you subscribed already, let me now talk hear a lot. Fast tracking a project means performing more So, you see more bars along the same vertical The other term you hear a lot is called project Crashing in simple terms is shortening the For example, if 2 workers finish the work 4 workers to finish it? Obviously, 15. If you said 60, please go get some fresh air, You need a break. So, this is called project crashing. But it comes at a cost right. Cost of additional resources. Additional money. You've probably seen those huge towers being Yeah that's what they do. They crash the heck out of the project. That's how they achieve such speed. Ok now we are done with this, let's put and move on with costs. The next in line is; cost management. Now for this piece, we'll take out our WBS But this time instead of giving durations, work package. So, we'll do a bottom up estimating. We do a detailed cost estimating for each This is essentially very similar to what we Once you have all the costs added up, the fixed costs, then you can create a budget. For those PMP takers, keep in mind that there For example, you need your risk register and budget. Not just that actually, you also need your So the way it works is you roll up, then work packages, cost estimate. Once you have it, you include contingency and that gives you your cost baseline. Then you include the management reserves and For 99% of us, we don't really do that in We roll up the cost of each work package, we are done with planning. I left out a few knowledge areas that you For example, you can talk about your human team, your communications plan, and other I just don't want to get into them here The only exception is I guess risk management But that's for another video. Alright, so far we are done with Initiation, It's the fun part now. The Execution! Yaayy ? The purpose of the executing process is to plan and meet the project objectives. This is where we do the work. Your focus now is managing your team, following as the project manager. Your job is essentially guiding the team to If you have done a good job with planning, Although it takes the longest, as much as it's the easiest part. But if you haven't done a good job with So, in execution, if you are not the one doing you need to be doing constantly, for example; of all stakeholders. You need to protect your scope. Because you'll quickly realize that stakeholders Do you know what it is? Gold plating is in simple terms, making changes You know instead of getting grade B quality now want you to get Grade A quality. Now, this is a problem because you didn't So, as a project manager you need to prevent Protect your scope. Your scope is like your national flag. You protect it against all unnecessary change You resist. You can evaluate it and put it in consideration it as is and change the execution. For those PMP takers, please pay attention Ok, now this was execution. The next process group is called Monitoring Monitoring and controlling means measuring plan, managing your change requests, and making included them in the plan. An important aspect here, monitoring and controlling So, they run in parallel. So, you monitor and control when you are already It makes sense right? How can you monitor once you finish the execution. It's common sense. So, what do you monitor and control then"? You monitor your scope, you make sure no scope forecast if you think there'll be delays. This is particularly easy to see because you schedule, remember we even put it on Gantt , Then you monitor your costs, quality, risks, Again this is fairly simple, for example you just always look back and verify if you were If you weren't then you look for root causes, Why did we exceed the budget or the schedule? Then obviously you solve those problems so And you make sure you document everything. For PMP takers, please pay extra attention It becomes particularly important in this I want to quickly touch on earned value here. Earned value is Total Project Budget Multiplied For example, you have budgeted 1 million dollars And you have finished 20% of it. So, your earned value is 200,000 dollars. Now, this is primarily used for construction by PMI. But in real life, it doesn't hold much value And the reason is the value gained cannot the project. What does this even mean? It means; It's not always a linear progression. Most of the time, actual value of a project It's a power curve. But in reality, in real life, your growth because most projects show exponential growth And they get compounded results every month. And their calculation is a lot more difficult To calculate it, you need growth/ decay formula every week. It's very similar to how we calculate compound-interest. Ok, before I bore you to death, let's move Actually, no. I want to explain this A BIT MORE. The exponential growth to you. Because, I believe you'll benefit from it. So, let's take my YouTube channel for example. Let's call this project, project 100,000 That's what I love to achieve. At the moment, I have about 19,000 subscribers. Let's say I get 500 subscribers per week that I maintain the quality, I will not have It'll probably be 2000 per week or a lot Because it gets compounded. Just like your money in your savings account. See, if you calculate your earned value based 1 video per week, but the output just became So, it grows at a rate greater than a linear So, that's how most projects are in real And if you still haven't subscribed, please Alright, sorry I digressed a little bit there. So, the key takeaway is whatever your project see the results now. They will come. And when they do, they will come like this Let's close this project. Now, we finished the product. Is the project finished? I mean the product is finished. But the project? No, it's not. There is still some work to be done. Not much but we still have to do certain things. Mostly boring admin work. So, what do we do now. Well, what you do is really customizable to But in general, these are good starting points. 1) One; We hand it over to the client if it's You need to basically get a sign-off from 2) Two; Finish procurements. Meaning, you need to make the final payments 3) Three; Gather your final lessons learned. This is basically documenting what went wrong You probably can't see it on the camera, The bow of the boat is actually not straight. It's leaning towards the port side, left Yeah a few lessons learned here ? members go back to their own teams. 5) And five; finally... go celebrate... Thanks for being with me the past 1 hour. I hope you benefited from this video. And if you did, please share it with your And if you share it in LinkedIn, please feel I'd love to connect with you. And finally, as I mentioned earlier, if you and explore working for multinational companies, That's where I share some of the advanced multinational firms. It delivers great results. See you next week,