Hello all. This is Sisletter. How are you all doing for the end of the year? Over the year, the most loved and helpful videos that a lot of you watched are our organization videos. So today we prepared a collection of the best sisletter organizing videos. If you want to start or finish organizing before the New Year, it would be nice to organize it with this video. When the bowls are stacked on top of each other, only the top bowl is used. The 3-tier dish organizer helps to pull out the dishes easily. Personally, I think wooden organizer would be better than stainless or metal ones. It is because the wooden one wouldn't slip, and there's less banging sounds, so I think there's less risk of breaking. You can double the storage by adding an adjustable shelf to separate the space, and the under-shelf hanging basket helps you store reducing unused space. An under shelf basket becomes a hanging shelf if you hang it under a shelf, but it becomes a space divider if you place it on the top of shelf. Narrow shelves are also useful for storing small bowls. It makes it easier to take out all the bowls placed on the front, back, and top. Many people have asked about label stickers. It is self-labeling with a marker on every day transparent tape. You can organize it neatly without a labeling machine. Milk cartons are really useful for organizing anywhere. You can adjust the length by cutting the top and side and fixing the two with a paper clip. If you cut the top and bottom sides without cutting all the sides and spread it out, you can use it as a cutting board for seafood or meat. It's hard to find and buy the right size containers every time, so try it like this. This time we're going to organize the sauce in the fridge with a milk carton and a rubber band. Putting masking tape around the rim of the milk carton cut out makes it stronger. Use rubber bands from cut rubber gloves to divide the compartments, and if space is tight, you can connect another milk carton to make it longer. This helps to store the leftover sauce and not to fall over, and organize the gaps much neater. How do you organize your cords and wires? Organize them by recycling toilet paper rolls. It's easy to find when you put the relatively large cord and write the name. Bottles or cosmetic containers that are easily knocked over Try putting rubber bands at the necessary intervals and store the bottles. They will be well fixed so that they do not fall over. It's possible to keep it neat, right? If there is one item that shouldn't be missed when organizing, it would be a tension rod. I'm going to use it for an ambiguous sized cabinet that adult shoes don't fit. With two compression rods, even adult shoes can be stored! It is so good that I can put my son's shoes together I attached two compression rods to make it easier to take out the tumbler. And this makes more space underneath so that I can put other things. Fixing two compression rods and placing a shelf helps to store containers that are tricky to store. It's good for storing long items that are hard to fit into baskets. When storing hair products such as hair dryers, put a compression rod in the center and store them upright! It's easy to find, and it's easy to take out and put in. There is no end to the transformation of the tension rods, which are also useful in the lower cabinet of the sink. This storage of kitchen cleaning tools saves space and makes them easy to use. A deep shelf-type cabinet is more difficult to organize than you might think. If you organize the seasoning bottles with the rotating tray, it's convenient to take it out and use right away while cooking. Vertical shelves are also great for storing baking trays or large trays. When using hanging shelves, make sure they are shorter than the cabinet depth. Otherwise, the shelf may stick out and not fit. Pan organizers are also available on the market these days, but if you have a file holder/organizer at home, try using it to organize frying pans that have height. You can store one more at the end if you leave some space from the end. When organizing clothes, store them upright so it is easy to see at a glance. When there is remaining space after taking out clothes, try using a bookend for the remaining space. It holds the clothes well not to fall over, so you can store them neatly. Underwears, socks, and small-sized clothes can be easily organized using a organizing basket or container. Fill the remaining space with other clothes to keep it from moving, and if you don't have an organizing container, use paper bags to use them as dividers If you store clothes that are hard to hold this way, they won't get messy. The laundry room is a difficult place to organize because it doesn't have a lot of space. Installing hooks will help to use unused space. This is an Ikea folding hook that can be folded and unfolded. Isn't it perfect for hanging cleaning supplies or ironing boards? For a closet type laundry room that has many restrictions due to small space, using the hidden space well is the key for organizing in this small room. I used to put the laundry basket on top of the washing machine because I didn't have a good place to store it, but I made a loop with a string at the end hole and hung it on the door, so the space seems to be expanded. (Please note that depending on the product, it may not be foldable.) It is a detergent stand that prevents laundry detergent from dripping It doesn't seem like a big deal, but there is an absolute difference before and after using it! It is a magnetic storage box for dryer sheets that can be attached to a washing/dry machine. It is also good for storing dryer balls as well. This makes it easy to use right out of the dryer. There are so many recycling ideas for paper shopping bags. Cut a small hole on the bottom side, and store plastic bags in it so it's easy to pull out and use. I think this way works much better for me than folding every single plastic bags to store. Frequently used medicines and vitamins can be neatly stored in a deep basket. How was the compilations of Sisletters that were loved in the past? There were difficult times, but looking back, there were no moments that were not memories Our 2022, which was warm and bearable because we were together. It is already the time to say goodbye. We hope it was a warm 2022 for you too, and have a happy end of year everyone! P.S. Happy New Year! We wish you and your family the best.