I became obsessed with the relationship after suffering a series of concussions playing football and rugby in college. I felt my mind change for years after. I was studying computers at the time, and it felt as though and that my software Over the following years, a close friend suffered and multiple friends with crippling mental health issues. All around me, people that I loved dearly of the nervous system or the mind. I was grappling with all of this while pursuing an MFA in Design when a friend and fellow student showed me on how to build a low-cost to detect brain activity. After a couple long nights I saw my brainwaves dancing And that moment changed my life. In that moment, I felt as though I had the possibility And I also realized I needed help. So in 2013, in Brooklyn, I started OpenBCI, an open-source In the beginning, our goal was to build and to share the blueprints with the world so that anybody with a computer At first, we were an EEG-only company. We sold brain sensors I thought that's what people wanted. But over time, we discovered people doing Some people were connecting to measure the neurons in the gut and study gut-brain connection Others were using the tools to build for prosthetics and robotics. And some were designing new devices and peripheral add-ons to measure new types of data What we learned from all of this is that the brain by itself Turns out brain data alone lacks context. And what we ultimately but the mind, consciousness, When we have things like or ECG sensors to measure heart activity, eye trackers and even environmental sensors all of this makes the brain data But the organs around our body, are actually much easier to collect and also arguably much more important that we actually care about: Additionally, we realized that people in reading from the brain and the body. They were also interested through various types Things like light, sound, haptics and electricity. It's one thing to record the mind, it's another to modulate it. The idea of a combined system that can both read from is referred to as a closed-loop system This concept is truly profound, and it will define the next major When you have products that not just but are designed to actually that's something truly special. When we know what the data and we know how to make then using AI, we can build constructive to either amplify or suppress In the very near future, we will have computers and subconsciously connected to, enabling empathetic computing In 2018, we put these learnings to work and began development Named after my friend Gael, we call it Galea. It's a multimodal bio-sensing headset, and it is absolutely packed with sensors. It can measure the user's heart, and it combines that capability or augmented and virtual reality headsets. Additionally, we're exploring of non-invasive electrical The Galea software suite can turn the raw sensor data With some of the sensors, we're able to provide new forms And with all of the sensors, we're able to make quantifiable inferences things like stress, fatigue, In 2019, a legendary neurohacker reached out to me. He was actually one of our very first when we got started, early on. Christian was a very smart, and easygoing guy. And so I worked up the courage can we connect you to our sensors?&quot; At which point he said, &quot;I thought you would never ask.&quot; (Laughter) So after 20 minutes, we had him rigged up and we provided him Little digital buttons, This essentially doubled his number Years later, after many we flew to Germany to implement the first prototype of what we're going to be Christian then spent months training and sending his data across the Atlantic and flying a virtual drone in our offices. The first thing that we did for residual motor function. We then connected electrodes that he had the most and then we turned those muscles We then applied some smart filtering to adapt those buttons or a digital potentiometer. After that, we turned those four sliders and mapped them to a new virtual joystick. Christian then combined that new joystick with the joystick that he uses and with the two joysticks combined, Christian finally had control over all I'm going to stop talking about it, Christian, welcome. (Applause) At this point, I'm going to ask everybody and put your phones in airplane mode so that you don't get (Laughter) How are you feeling, Christian? Christian Bayerlein: Yeah, let's do it. Conor Russomanno: Awesome. This is a heads-up display that's showing as well as some information On the left here, we can see Christian is now going to attempt How are you feeling, CB: Yes. CR: All right. Rock and roll. Let's take this up for a joyride. Whenever you're ready. CB: I'm ready. (Applause and cheers) CR: All right, take her up. And now let's do something and fly it over the audience. (Laughter) (Cheers and applause) Alright, actually, let's do this. I'm going to ask for people to call out So how about you? Straight forward. Straight forward. (Laughter) Alright. How about you? Man: Up! (Laughter) CR: Not down. Oh, he's doing what he wants right now. Amazing. (Cheers and applause) Alright, let's bring it back. And what I'm going to do right now so that you guys know that there isn't someone backstage All right, Christian, CB: Yeah. CR: Unplug. Forward. And we're going to land this guy now. CB: I think I was better than you. (Laughter) (Applause) CR: Amazing. (Applause) Now I'm going to unplug it Perfect. Christian has repurposed dormant muscles for extended and augmented interactivity. We have turned those muscles that in this case but what's really cool is that joystick Another thing that's really cool is that even in individuals who are not there exist dozens of dormant that we can tap into for augmented And lastly, all the code related we're going to open source so that you can implement it There's three things from working on this project One, we cannot conflate In order to understand emotions and tensions and the mind overall, we have to measure data not just the brain. Two, open-source technology access and literacy is one way that we can combat in introducing neural But that's not enough. We have to do much, much more than that. It's very important, imperative, and design the future Three. It's the courage and resilience who don't get bogged down but instead strive to prove (Applause) And since none of this would have been the stage is yours. CB: Yeah, hi, everybody. Audience: Hi. CB: I'm excited to be here today. I was born with a genetic condition and requires me to have assistance. Despite my disability, I'm a very happy and fulfilled person. What truly holds me back It's rather the barriers I'm a tech nerd and political activist. I believe that technology It can help create a better, more inclusive and accessible world for everyone. This demonstration is a perfect example. We saw what's possible is combined with human So let's build tools that empower people, applications that break down barriers and systems that unlock I think that's an idea worth spreading. Thank you. (Cheers and applause)