The Eighth Route Army retreats Roof Wolf Warrior Brother Wolf Warrior, what are these things? I don't know either But just now they were desperately trying to grab It must be something important. You and Zhuanzi take these things back to the village. Where are you going? Those Eighth Route Army Heading towards the angry water There are traps we set on the road I'll go check it out Be careful Wolf Warrior It's getting dark. Be careful. Six, be careful. there Quick, quick, quick hurry up Quick, quick, quick Wang Aijie Wang Aijie Doctor Wang, are you okay? There's no escape You take the cylinder and hide first I'll lead them away. Doctor Wang, let's go together. No, go away, go away Doctor Wang, Captain Hu said I must bring you back safely. Go fast We can't let Guoqiang's sacrifice be in vain Doctor Wang Execute Command Doctor Wang This side spread Stop struggling Tell me where the thing is hidden Don't even think about it If you have the ability, go find it yourself. As long as you tell me I'll let you go Why don't you trust me? Trust, do you deserve it? I am a soldier of Great Japan As long as you hand over your stuff I will keep my promise You burned, killed and looted on Chinese territory. You still shamelessly say you keep your promises Do you know what shamelessness is? Are you challenging my bottom line? You have challenged the bottom line of the Chinese people How long do you think you can be so arrogant? I tell you Your end is here Go back to your hometown Maybe I can save a dog's life. I want to see who dies first. You hand over your stuff today. I'll let you die quickly. If I was afraid of death I wouldn't be standing here Get these dogs of yours to put down their guns Let's duel What's wrong, are you scared? You dogs If you have the guts, just shoot. pity I couldn't kill you beasts myself. Come on, shoot! Come on, shoot! You want to die, right? Then I have to give you a good ride I'll satisfy you in the interrogation room. take away Let me go, you will not end well. You guys wait Retreat Sir, Sir Sir, Sir Chief Chief What's going on? Two soldiers suddenly disappeared There are six of you, three people in a group. Go up here There are six of you, three people in a group. Go up here yes Let me go Be honest gather Don't stay here for long, keep moving forward yes Vigilance Leave four people to watch her. Others follow me, hurry up Let go, let me go Oops, go back quickly Who are you Follow me Let's go quick Wait for me in front What are you going to do? Don't ask so many questions, hurry up and go What are you still doing here? Let's go. Quick, take a detour to catch up Quick, quick! Chase me Quick Notify the commander of Namwon to increase the alert Others, chase me, quickly Chase Watch out for hidden weapons on the tree The Trap Under Your Feet Separate Search yes Your death is coming. , Kill him, kill him Kill him, kill him Chase, fast Wolf Warrior Wolf Warrior, let's go Quick, get up and chase Quick Everyone is ready Cover Wolf Warrior, fight Stop Shooting Quick quick Brother Wolf Warrior, are you okay? What happened? How are you? fine Captain, let's retreat. Can't tangle with the devil for too long You little bastard, wait and see how I deal with you Commander Aoki, what should we do now? Wait for them to move yes Namwon Governor Commander Aoki, it's Commander Nanyuan Commander Namwon, hide quickly! There's an ambush. The You listen to me Listen to your fart All your comrades must stay here. If you don't come, I can go out by myself. You ruined my plans. You still have reason, don't you? Okay, okay, stop talking. The most urgent task now is how to evacuate Wolf Warrior, you say Stake, take them to the grove There is a trap we set. After setting the trap I led them over. good But you, you Come to you Come back, you little bastard. Be careful, Wolf Warrior Brat, you're quite thoughtful. You guys follow me Walk They want to retreat, chase superior superior Over there Who Hunter A hunter How come there are so many people and so many guns? Is he an Eighth Route Army? I don't know, we just want to catch him. Chase, Chase Chief This woods is full of traps. How about we withdraw first? It seems that this war Didn't make Aoki-kun stronger Instead, he became a coward. Be careful, keep searching. yes Brother Wolf Warrior, this devil is not even as smart as a wild boar Walk Be careful with the ground, you are a bunch of rubbish. keep going yes keep going yes Brother Wolf Warrior, the Japanese fell into the trap again In front, catch up Retreat quickly Retreat, what are you retreating for? What a great opportunity! Take this opportunity to kill all the devils. Listen to me, those traps are for catching animals. The power is not great, retreat quickly Go fast Sir, what should I do? Bastard yes Roof After the fight starts You and the political commissar lead the second team Lead the devils away The farther the better good Wolf Warrior, wait until they are far away We led a team to cut through the barbed wire and rushed over Do you understand? I understand. Yes. Prepare for battle yes beat Roof Political Commissar, lead the second team to lead the Japs away Yes, you guys follow me. quick Others follow me. Yes, retreat, quickly Sir, they're heading that way. Chase yes etc. Wait until the pile runs away. Fast Chase Chase Walk Listen Comrade with explosive pack Come with me and blow up that bunker Wolf Warrior, Wang Ai You are responsible for the cover yes Wolf Warrior, be careful Responsible for cover Captain, you have to be careful. Walk Political Commissar, right in front Okay, quick, quick pliers yes quick Keep up Keep up Keep up Keep up Oops, shoot. Retreat, quickly Go, quick Captain, hurry up Captain, there's an ambush. Don't make a noise, don't make a noise, I know there's an ambush The bunker must be blown up today yes On the blasting team yes cover beat There's an ambush, Captain. team leader Blackie Blackie Blackie beat beat Wolf Warrior, you are with the Eighth Route Army Quick retreat Political Commissar, what's going on? Who destroyed it? Catch up Political Commissar, look The traps are destroyed. What's going on? Quick Dispatch Retreat! Retreat! Come on, keep up All destroyed Who did this? Quick, retreat, retreat Catch up, catch up quick quick Land, Land Go, go! Quick retreat, quick retreat Retreat, come, land, go beat beat Dazhong, Dazhong, Dazhong The Japs I fought with you. team leader I fought with you. team leader Let's go, Captain. Go away, Captain. Go away, I'm going to fight you. Cover me Wolf Warrior Quick, go! You didn't shoot, hold still. Hurry up team leader Go fast Quick, quick Go fast One team stayed behind Team 2, follow me, hurry up yes Catch up hurry up Follow up, fast Destroy them, quickly. quick Quick, go, go Come, give me, go Walk Fast, fast Eliminate them, quickly. Come on, keep up, come on Keep up Finally got rid of them. Oh no, they're following us again. Wait a minute Go, quick Wangcai Wangcai how's it going Wangcai fights for reputation Hold it in for me Captain, give me a grenade. I'll cover you guys, hurry up I really can't do it anymore It's too late if you don't leave now. Go quickly. Go fast Captain, hurry up team leader Good Brother Walk Let's go Let's go Walk careful Walk Walk Here it comes Report to the commander, the person is missing They can't run far, they must be nearby search You guys here Call me Quick withdrawal Retreat, retreat, retreat quickly Fast, fast, fast Run, run, run Come Follow me Chief Be more energetic yes Hello Sir Increased vigilance yes Look at it You here You here yes Walk Wait a minute That's it From there you can go directly to the Arsenal Listen up, everyone. Captain Hu will fight with the devils later. We'll go in from here. Roof Liuzi and I cut the barbed wire You take the brothers in. good Follow me Going Around beat beat What Someone sneaked up on me. You go sound the alarm Hurry up! Hurry up! Hurry up! What's going on? Report to the commander Someone attacked the arsenal Who Not sure yet Go up and see you guys continue working Follow me Give me quick Quick The pile leads the way Quick fire What's happening outside? Report to the commander, we are surrounded There are attacks from the three directions of east, south and north. In addition to the guards of the arsenal Bring everyone up to me. You must keep it for me. Quick, call headquarters and ask for support yes Hello arsenal How many people I see Xiaodao will assemble the team immediately Go to the Arsenal yes The devil took the bait Concentrate your firepower to destroy this group. beat This is their office area. Next to it is the experiment That's the prison cell. Weapons production is over there Go over there first bomb Wolf Warrior Roof Go and rescue the villagers as soon as possible I'll plant the bomb somewhere else. good Captain, it's almost time. Our disguise won't last long. I don't know what happened to Wolf Warriors. I can't care so much Delay as long as possible At worst, I'll fight them. Why are you looking at me? The Arsenal must be destroyed This side Get out of my way Folks, the Eighth Route Army is here to rescue you Go, one by one Go, go, go, go Blow up this place Roof Wolf Warrior Have they all been rescued? It's all here So many people The vent is so small If the devil finds them, no one can escape. What to do then Where is the original exit here? It seems over there But outside is the Japanese artillery tower. blockhouse Faster and faster When will the reinforcements from headquarters arrive? It should be soon Hojo led the team himself What's going on outside now? A machine gun on the rooftop was knocked down Commander Aoki is still holding on. What about casualties? Not sure Sir, should we rush out? No We must hold out until reinforcements arrive. The Arsenal cannot afford any mistakes. yes Why haven't you come out yet? It's almost time to schedule. Did the enemy discover something? Not like There's no movement in this turret. So what do we do now? Demolition Team arrive Blow up the barbed wire for me Create the illusion of a feint Go quickly Run, run! Class 1 arrive Concentrate fire near the bunker yes Wang Aidong'er organized the cover Follow me Cover Captain Wake up, wake up! The enemy is coming, hurry up beat Quick retreat Captain, hurry up Asshole, what's going on? What is going on? The roof was blown off The barbed wire fence on the east side was blown up The enemy seems to be attacking from the east Bastards go to reinforce All go to reinforce You must hold me up yes Quick Hurry up, hurry up Hurry up and get reinforcements quick Machine gun fast machine gun Machine gun fast hurry up Damn it, what the hell is going on at headquarters? Why did the reinforcements take so long to arrive? Call now. Call now. Now there are all devils outside the bunker Let's attack from both sides Just take down the bunker. The devil outside is trapped in a jar. Liuzi, take the villagers away Good pile Wolf Warrior Copy machine gun fast yes quick Quickly kill all the devils in the bunkers. yes The Bastard Bunker is lost Pay attention to concealment Fighting the Japs in their artillery tower It's so addictive Don't waste time The time bomb is about to explode The pile leads the villagers well yes Other brothers follow me out Let's kill the devils together Captain, look Everybody be careful. Come with me and kill him later good Everyone protects Wolf Warrior Concentrate fire beat Stone Where is Wolf Warrior going? Wolf Warrior The devils ran into the arsenal I'm going to kill him I'll go with you I want to avenge my father. The bomb is about to explode You and Liuzi lead the villagers to evacuate I'll be back soon. Wolf Warrior Comrades, rush This little devil is awesome It's quite powerful, good stuff Walk team leader Captain, the pile Good job, pile Look Vigilance Six sons arrive Take the common people back to the detachment, quickly Yes, go, go, quickly not good All Attack attack n Doctor Wang Sixth son, Doctor Wang Are you all right? It's okay, pile Roof Pile, are you okay? I'm fine Where is Wolf Warrior? He's in there. He's still in there. Captain Captain What happened to the captain? Quick, quick, the devil's reinforcements are here Come on, fellow countryman! Go, go, go, go Keep up, keep up Captain, what should I do? The Wolf Warriors are still inside, we can't retreat Can't delay any longer Otherwise none of the villagers will survive. Quick retreat Captain, we can't retreat. Brother Wolf Warrior is still inside. Obey the order and go If you don't go, I will go. Hold her with the stake. Wolf Warrior Brother Dong'er Six sons to the alert retreat Yes, walk fast Captain, you can't retreat. Wolf Warrior is still in there. team leader I will tell you to obey the order later. Walk Let's go Quick retreat, quick retreat, quick retreat Go, go, Wolf Warrior Aoki Quick, quick, quick Wolf Warrior withdraw Winter, let's go Let's go Get out of here. Go! Wang Ai Go Go Go Let's go Bastard Small Island yes Bring everyone Go chase those Eighth Route Army soldiers and those who escaped No matter what the cost You must bring the person back to me. yes This side You're still alive, bastard. Report to the Chief Wolf Warrior led the Eighth Route Army to destroy the arsenal I thought you died for your country. Negligence of subordinates Because your dereliction of duty has brought me great shame. How can I face the Emperor? You lowly person. How can I trust you? Not only did you lose the Arsenal It also damaged my honor. You're worse than a dog. My future is ruined in your hands You still want to marry my sister wishful thinking You are a lowly person. I tell you Don't think war can change your destiny You are daydreaming I will send Xuezi away immediately. You are the scapegoat for this incident. Or you can wait for the guillotine. Or solve it yourself Hojo, you forced me to do this Where are you coming from? Visitors Wolf Warrior killed the Major Kill the Wolf Warrior to avenge the Major Quick stop Colonel Yokoyama Bastard Is this the arsenal I asked you to defend? Report to the Colonel Wolf Warrior led the Eighth Route Army to destroy the arsenal He also killed the major and stabbed me. This guy, Wolf Warrior Bring back Wolf Warrior This is my shame, Colonel. Please allow me to kill him myself. Destruction of the Arsenal Hojo's murder Aoki, you are to blame Before the matter of the Arsenal was clarified This wolf warrior must be absolutely safe Aoki's story You need to give me an explanation , , Wolf Warrior We meet again Aoki Rei Take off his clothes I suddenly want to eat barbecue from my hometown You still don't tell me when you are about to die, right? If you say today Contact information for underground transportation stations I can consider letting you die more quickly. catch Call me Brothers Brothers Can you still bear it? XXXXX How many secrets do you have? The Japanese value you so much They even sent troops I will personally interrogate you It seems that you are not simple This guy must be from the Eighth Route Army Otherwise, why would the Japs torture him like this? This body is OK This really opened our eyes. What a man, captain. Who of you has a needle and thread? Who has needle and thread? Who has needle and thread? Pillar Give him the needle and thread good What do you want it for? Be careful Thanks Okay, let's all go. Scattered, scattered, scattered Scattered Report to Major Hojo's adjutant that he wants to see you Xiaodao Luming, what is he doing here? Ask him to come in. yes What's up? I have something I have been thinking about for a long time. I don't know if I should say it Now that you are here, just tell me. Major Hojo was not killed by Wolf Warrior Who is that? That day, Captain Aoki He stabbed himself Let me explain Don't talk nonsense If you talk nonsense, you will lose your head. I guarantee it with my head No lies continue That day, Captain Aoki Said Wolf Warrior stabbed himself Then he killed Major Hojo But I saw it with my own eyes Captain Aoki stabbed himself I see Death of Major Hojo These things I think you should forget it. Sir, why? Because Hojo-kun is dead. But the war of our Great Japanese Empire It must continue But you did a great job on this. I will have a special arrangement for you But you have to forget about this. Can't tell anyone. Otherwise, you know the consequences. yes Go down , completion , This guy has nine lives. , , Today is also hanging, Brother, you are a wise man if you know the times. , What do they want to know? Just tell them. Saving your life is important. You're a softie , , , You thought you could escape. Death is a matter of time here. That's not necessarily true. , , It depends on who it is. I bet , This kid can survive this night. OK, I'll bet with you. I bet he won't make it to dark. Is there still humanity? Have you been here for long? They've all turned into beasts, haven't they? Wolf Warrior, I'll give you a chance If you tell me the location of the underground transportation station I can show you, Tomorrow morning sun If you don't speak Don't even think about seeing the moon tonight. I actually know where the traffic station is. But I really won't tell you Press down No torture of prisoners stand up Bro, you're a man. Hold on Put him on the tiger bench Beast beast beast Let him go, let him go Beast, beast, beast No torture of prisoners Beast, beast Stop mistreating the prisoner, let him go Whoever speaks out again Die with him. He has a bullet lodged in his brain that hasn't been removed yet. Will there be any problems? It's over. It's over. How did it become like this? People are getting soft. Mr. Aoki, don't you know There's a bullet in his head. If you play like this, he will be killed. Didn't the Colonel say that? Give him a life. Stop talking Move him to the infirmary. Can't do it Don't move! You guys keep moving around like this. What if you move him to death? I feel wronged. Show him here. This devil actually hired a doctor for this kid Look how anxious the Japanese are. This kid should be fine. Dr. Ho What medicine did you inject him with? Anti-inflammatory injection Look at all the injuries on his body. Even if the brain is not broken The weather is so hot, people will rot This person is really troublesome. I should have let him die. How is he? I have to stay and observe for a while. See if he has any adverse reactions. Mr. Aoki, why don't you go back first? I will definitely do what the colonel told me to do. And he won't wake up for a while. What's so good about a half-dead person? You two watch here. If he wakes up, let me know immediately. yes Colonel A message from the crow It is said that the Eighth Route Army has sent people into the city to rescue Wolf Warrior It's unclear who to contact. And they have begun to doubt There's a spy inside We guessed right. That Wolf Warrior must understand Details of the underground intelligence station Those Tuba Road Will definitely contact the underground intelligence station Order to send more people Strengthen security yes Colonel There's one thing I don't understand. You know it was Aoki who killed Hojo Why are you still so tolerant towards Aoki? And I heard Hojo: Once the mourning period is over Aoki is going to marry Ms. Yukiko Aoki is still very important to us. The most important thing is the critical moment I need someone who can take responsibility. Miss Yukiko's Mourning Period There's still a long time. Just keep an eye on Aoki. Because this person is very ambitious So we must know everything about him. I can control him. yes You go down first I'm just a doctor You must not be violent. I'm here to see you. I have roughly understood your situation. but I haven't thought of a specific one yet. What kind of method To completely solve your problem Your injury is very special. I have to go back and think about it carefully. But don't worry I'll tell the Colonel. I've been letting you take a good rest recently. Can't move, know no You sometimes have headaches When the pain is severe Just take this medicine But don't eat too much. Come, take it Remember? good If there's nothing wrong, Then I'll go first. I'll take them back to the battlefield to kill the devils That's it. But this matter Only the three of us know. Don't tell anyone about the doctor. Don't worry I know the importance of this matter I won't tell anyone This matter also needs Pi San's help I consulted him. good XXXNV Check what time it is now X into NNXXXX ten o'clock What are you two discussing? I plan to take everyone with me. What are you crazy about? How can you be so capable? Don't really think of this as our backyard. It's okay for the two of us to escape. So a bunch of people want to escape from here. How is that possible? no No matter how hard it is, it has to work I'm going to take everyone with me. Mr. Aoki Could you please ask your men to open the door? Doctor Wang, please You guys watch carefully yes Come for painkillers Last time you ate Doctor Wang Doctor Wang Let's get started Get started Be careful Be careful Girl I'm telling you to be careful. Alcohol got into your eyes again. Come come come wipe wipe wipe What should I do if my eyes are burned? Be patient Noda-kun This matter can't be delayed any longer. If the colonel had put in the spy Get the information before us All my efforts have been wasted. Aoki I always thought you were afraid of something. Can you tell me what happened? You worry too much, Noda-kun The colonel didn't blame me for the loss of the arsenal I am very grateful I want to destroy the underground transportation station Repay the colonel's support And I'm going to kill Wolf Warrior Revenge for the Major The Major is not only my superior My relatives I want to take the life of Wolf Warrior As a wedding gift for Yukiko So that's how it is Aoki I have admired you since my school days. You have great respect for your master and Miss Yukiko Your love is really enviable Noda-kun We must let Wolf Warrior speak Today, Colonel Suddenly canceled Michiko's decision to assist me I doubt Is there any new progress from the Colonel? But now Wolf Warrior can't interrogate at all So what are you going to do? Noda-kun promised me If something unexpected happens Kill the Wolf Warrior And the colonel must not know about this. Don't worry I will obey your orders. Please Chief Chief , What are you doing? Well, we have a brother here. Not feeling well either Can you let them take a look? , , What are you looking at? Go away. Sir Sir Sir Sir Let's have a quick consultation. I've checked it many times. There's a bullet in his head. XX And it happens to be on the herringbone seam This is the first time I've encountered this situation. I'll check his condition. You bandage his hand. gauze Come slower You listen to me now The troops outside are ready. Start moving when it gets dark Captain Hu has set up an ambush with stakes. All you have to do is grab the devil's gun Otherwise it's not easy to break through There is no safe house outside the prison But there are two machine guns There were twelve guards when I arrived. Once you're out of the prison, just keep going forward. There is a truck 50 meters away. The Japanese army would not open the city gates at night So you must force your way in. The political commissar and his men have already done the work of responding. This is what you want Be careful and be safe The guards here The last shift is at 10pm We started at half past ten. You cut off the power supply at that time. I have checked it All right Let's get out of this dirty place. Go back for a consultation Let's go, let's pack up quickly Open the door Thank you, Taijun Report Come in Crow Calls Crow Calls Someone contacted the detachment today Unknown Still observing crow It must be related to the arrest of Wolf Warrior They are scared Tomorrow you and Aoki-kun will go and interrogate Wolf Warrior again yes Keep up with the team Keep up, keep up, hurry up Keep up the formation! Pay attention to the back Shaoqun, they are here Go fast Captain, you are all here. It's important to save people now, don't fight too long yes Winter Zhuanzi must rescue Brother Zhanlang He has been tortured beyond recognition by the devils. Don't worry What time is it? Why are you still talking about this? How's Lao Hu? Was the truck hijacked discovered? Discovered It's alright, done. Look at this clothes buried Come and take it Remember to cut the telephone wires. After completing the task, you will return to the coffin shop. Your identity must not be revealed What about here? I'm here This is too dangerous. You must not expose You better leave first. Don't worry, I'll leave after the person comes out. If there is any problem It's good to have someone to take care of it Baotong, time is running out. Go quickly. Okay, I'll go first. Please be safe Then you take this. Maybe it can come in handy. Okay, I'll go first. What's going on? Go up and have a look yes Good light is off They should start taking action. Everyone, please be prepared. So, Doctor He You and Wang Aidong'er stay here I took the others while it was dark. Hide behind the door Be careful and rest assured Going Around Be careful The prisoner escaped and all soldiers were on alert quick Someone jailbroken. Everyone, be alert! How about it Walk brother Oops, I got discovered. No, but I have other brothers. A bunch of brothers didn't come out No, hurry up. If you don't leave now, no one else can leave. No, go, go. quick quick quick What is going on? I still haven't figured out why the headquarters phone number is not working. There must be something wrong with the prison. You report to the headquarters immediately. yes The rest of you follow me. yes Roof The action started inside Did you see the two machine gunners? I'll deal with the one on the left in a moment. You and Liuzi deal with the one on the right. Once the others explode Just start shooting, understand? yes Come Prepare Surround the cell first Don't let the people inside escape. Quick beat One team supports the door, the rest follow me yes Quick quick rush beat The iron gate in front We broke out of the prison. Shunzi diverted their attention Go fast Comrades, take cover. Four Joys After a while, Captain Hu came out from the city gate. If the Japanese soldiers follow behind We support them with all our firepower It is to ensure the completion of the task quick Call me Roof Go and cover Wolf Warrior! I'll leave this to you, Wolf Warrior. Shunzi asked his brothers to retreat withdraw Quick retreat! Quick retreat! Quickly retreat Wolf Warrior Wolf Warrior TorakoTorako Go Go Go Quick Look, they're coming out. Get ready to start the car. Be careful Good winter walk Hurry up! Wolf Warrior Wolf Warrior You two, help him get in the car. quick Give me a rush. Gather immediately to meet yes City under martial law The whole city is under martial law quick Wang Ai I'm fine, go away. Quick retreat! Quick retreat! Get in the car quickly Go fast Quickly fight Wolf Brother Get Wolf Warrior in the car! No, the medical conditions on the team are too poor. How about this? Wang Aidong'er Let's go to Mama Liu's place. Lao Hu, send them out of the city Good going Go Go Go Leave the pile quickly Go fast Wolf Warrior What are you standing there for? Come on. Liuzi, give him the clothes quickly. yes quick This dress is quite useful The devils didn't even look at us. Don't take it lightly, you haven't left the city yet. I think the wolf warrior is seriously injured. Nothing will happen in the city. It should be fine. We are almost at the city gate. Be careful. What's going on? Officer Aoki, the prisoner has escaped. Commander Noda has already gone after them. Everyone follow me to the city gate, quickly yes Go over there Come here quickly there The devils have all gone to the city gate Can the captain escape? It's okay. There's a political commissar waiting at the city gate. Don't worry about it, let's go first Walk This side quick Who is it? It's me, Doctor He. What's wrong? Why didn't you leave the city? yes Hurry up and help me Let's go into the inner room. , , Quick team martial law The rest of you follow me to the city gate. yes Slow down, slow down, slow down, slow down, old lady Captain Hu led the others to withdraw first His gunshot wound recurred I have to show him first. So I can only put it here. I'm sorry to bother you again during this period. It should be Show him now. Come quickly what to do Don't panic yes Close the gate immediately Do not allow any vehicles to enter or exit yes quick what to do Rush out Get out of the car, stop the car, stop the car Stop, stop, stop beat Retreat, retreat, retreat