Transcriber: Joseph Geni I recently read about in Harvard Business Review. One thing that stuck out to me but make an impact. I'm a little bit older than you, maybe much older than you, but this is exactly the same goal I wanted to make my own impact it's the reason that I became the reason I became a prisoner in North Korea for 140 days. It was March 17, 2009. It is St. Patrick's Day for all of you, but it was the day My team and I were making a documentary living below human life in China. We were at the border. It was our last day of filming. There was no wire fence or bars or sign to show that it is the border, but this is a place that a lot as an escape route. It was still winter, and the river was frozen. When we were in the middle we were filming about and the environment that North Koreans had to deal with when they seek their freedom. And suddenly, one &quot;Soldiers!&quot; So I looked back, and there were two small soldiers chasing after us. We all ran as fast as we could. I prayed that, please And I was thinking that, if my feet are on Chinese soil, I'll be safe. And I made it to Chinese soil. Then I saw my colleague I didn't know what to do but I knew that I could not when she said, In a flash, we were surrounded They were not much bigger than us, but they were determined I begged and yelled for any kind of help, hoping that someone Here I was, being stubborn towards a trained soldier with a gun. I looked at his eyes. He was just a boy. At that moment, but I saw that he was hesitating. His eyes were shaking, and his rifle was still up in the air. So I shouted at him, &quot;OK, OK, I'll walk with you.&quot; And I got up. When we arrived at their army base, my head was spinning and my colleague's She said, &quot;We are the enemy.&quot; She was right: we were the enemy. And I was supposed to be frightened, too. But I kept having these odd experiences. This time, an officer brought me his coat to keep me warm, because I lost my coat on the frozen river while battling with one of these soldiers. I will tell you what I mean I grew up in South Korea. To us, North Korea was always the enemy, even before I was born. South and North have been since the end of the Korean War. And growing up in the South we were taught propaganda And we heard so many graphic stories, such as, a little young boy by North Korean spies &quot;I don't like communists.&quot; Or, I watched this cartoon series about a young South Korean boy which represented the North Koreans' And the effect of hearing instilled one word in a young mind: &quot;enemy.&quot; And I think at some point, and the people of North Korea with the North Korean government. Now, back to my detention. It was the second day of being in a cell. I had not slept This young guard came to my cell and offered me this small boiled egg and said, &quot;This will give you Do you know what it is like, receiving a small kindness Whenever they were kind to me, was waiting for me after the kindness. One officer noticed my nervousness. He said, &quot;Did you think referring to the cartoon Every day was like a psychological battle. The interrogator had me sit at a table six days a week and had me writing down over and over until I wrote down After about three months of detention, the North Korean court sentenced me to 12 years in a labor camp. So I was just sitting in my room At that time, I really had so I paid attention and listened to what Guard A was older, and she studied English. She seemed like she came She often showed up and then loved to show off. And Guard B was the younger one, and she was a really good singer. She loved to sing Celine Dion's sometimes too much. She knew just how (Laughter) And this girl spent a lot of time like you can see in any young girl's life. And they loved to watch a better quality production. I remember Guard B said, &quot;I can no longer watch our TV shows She got scolded for degrading her own country's Guard B had more and she often got scolded by Guard A One day, they invited I don't know where they came from -- to where I was held, and they invited me to their guard room and asked if one-night stands (Laughter) This is the country where to hold hands in public. I had no idea where they but they were shy and giggly I think we all forgot and it was like going back And I learned that these girls also but just propaganda towards I started to understand where If these girls grew up it was just natural just as I feared them. But at that moment, we were all just girls who shared the same interests, beyond our ideologies that separated us. I shared these stories with my boss after I came home. His first reaction was, &quot;Euna, have you heard Yes, and I clearly remember the feeling of fear and being threatened, and tension rising up when we talked about politics. There definitely was a wall But we were able to see when we talked about family, everyday life, the importance of the future It was about a month before I came home. I got really sick. Guard B stopped by my room to say goodbye, because she was leaving She made sure that no one watched us, no one heard us, and quietly said, &quot;I hope you get better and go back to your family soon.&quot; It is these people -- the officer who brought me his coat, the guard who offered me a boiled egg, these female guards who asked me they are the ones humans just like us. North Koreans and I were not but I believe that we were representing the human race. Now I'm back home and back to my life. The memory of these people And I'm in this place where I read and hear I realized how easy it is to see them as an enemy again. But I have to keep reminding myself I was able to see humanity over hatred in my enemy's eyes. Thank you. (Applause)