I am here with Jamie Dimon at the in London, and I'm going to get into a One of the questions that people have, this sort of explosion in tech. How are you sort of seeing the far? What's the most exciting for you? Thrilled to be here. in the big picture. of years, you know, with agriculture and and the Internet and tech grows in You know, the Internet called A, B and course, the iPhone. We're here in London because we call the also a diaspora. was mostly in the United States and New York. You know, we have a tech center in And aggregating is great. I think it's really important for And obviously the thing now is all about going to change an awful lot of things. there's always been a fear of tech is look at the big picture. But in the big picture, it is why Live longer. health gets better, work hours go down. are huge and probably defined a better So you talk about the people who are And in a previous interview, you were some jobs and it's going to create Which stops do you expect to have to get created? You know, I mean, we should put our head We know it's going to be true. enhanced. and more you'll have like a real super shoulder when you wake up. know, other jobs, it will handle, you already hedges are trading equity floors fraud. but it created effects in terms of And so and then, you know, if it changes deal with it. We love to retrain people, redeploy And so I'm not worried about it. client, we can kind of do more. if you're growing and expanding, there's So to me, I want to have a successful downsides of life. major U.S. bank to keep growing in terms of the same size when it comes to staff. I don't I don't really know, to tell you predetermine that. still opening branches. around the world. You know, we're adding people and data We have 44,000 views. in general. to go up a little bit in general. where a lot of founders start to test go public. going public as quickly as in the past, because there's so much private capital Do you still see that? something that's cyclical just having to It's a complicated subject. think it's a good thing that people can markets. know, public markets are quite elevated So part of is they have access to Part of their weighting, part of it is much cash. not going public. healthy public markets to have people venture colleges and most of the bunch want to do is actually need to do it at So do you expect that to pick up in the Do you think it's going to remain needed I don't know. I think it may very well stay muted as opposed to just go up endlessly and So when I speak to a lot of private stuff like that, they tell you they have I do think it's very important that our because even here in the United States, You know, we've we've eliminated We you know, we the costs are much Those litigation expenses are higher. higher. upon us to try to make it easier and be borne in the public markets. that. from lunch where I wonder for your Good, good look at. people are going public. lagged behind. York, and has lost clout in other areas, Do you think that this is just a on a broader level, London is kind of financial centre? you listen to the current Labour investment markets, capital markets. help it recover. think it would become more permanent to the United States as more liquidity. I mean, and so or they have a lot of great business environment will also But right now, you know, NASDAQ or New attractive place to go and we'll see how We want to help them do better here. United States at the expense of Europe, focus on emerge from this report. they need to do to get productivity back They need a capital markets union, for about for years. growth around European countries on a London market. pipeline for fourth quarter? companies to really engage with major of potential volatility, because of ramping up? talk about backlogs. backlogs tend to grow and expand and There's a pretty good backlog growing of You know, whether it happens or not is a An M&amp;A, yes, I do believe I can prove is That is tempered quite a bit by not the rules and regulations. directors here. capital that you can take. conservative in the United States is 24 months to close a deal? company, you know, particularly to go to I know a lot of the banks. deals. they can't wait. they took three years. requirement. anymore. You want an active, healthy M&amp;A market. bad for competition, even though I think But, you know, we've just become like an Okay. else in charge of the FTC and there are that people have to advance over. the banking industry? clear about this. hammer of these are now they're a little aren't right about certain things. But I think there are 4000 banks, United position. bank. But if you're competing in a certain size, you may need economies of scale do need consolidation. to do it. and they would tell you, if I can't do to JPMorgan. They should be allowed to merge their to make that decision based what they shareholders. should get involved in every single bank And, you know, they're adding social It should be about safety and soundness It says we need to merge. for a safer, sounder bank. You give a lot of examples where it It doesn't mean it shouldn't be allowed. more open about letting these things quickly. overhang, there is this question about up. hinge on the economy. pessimistic about a soft landing. back in April. that the probability has gone up with getting? am not talking about forecasting 2025. parts, a lot of things in the future These, you know, the most important overseas geopolitics, you know, the also the the you'll watch these Western interests, against Israel, States. I look at a long amount of serious So claims are hard. I don't know. one, do you think? When you say open, they're very you They're not low. spreads are very low. But people are saying not open for IPOs. the largest of the year, like last week, wants to buy today. not open. public, they don't like the price. And you should think twice about that company's worth, much more than the assessment of what you're looking for closed. of inflationary things that are coming Do you think that it was a mistake for No, actually, I mean, you got to Inflation is definitely coming down. recession. They raised rates. They raised it very high rapidly to 5%. right to take their foot off the gas. that much 5025, honestly. comes back. remuneration, the world inflationary, the United States, inflationary. demographics are inflationary. the road until about two or three years So they should react at that time to But I don't think you anticipate that. happen. I watched the Treasury auctions. I watched them every time wondering, are some of the concerns that yourself that But also, every single investor who I Are you surprised that the market hasn't the way of higher yields or at least Yeah, I have a lot of comments that one, things in, so they actually happen. You know, the higher inflation, the deficit there is also sentiment, know, of capital goods, which is very But that's why I think that longer rates little bit as opposed to go down because States. It's a word you used to, you know, always bad. to volatile markets, but I do think Your dealer inventories are very low. constrained. I mean, we had this anomaly where cheap cash and unable to intermediate and completely conservatively because we're know, like central bank reserves or So I think when QE five goes to a be wrong. disaster. I do think policymakers will get upset. And there are I think there are fixes, And I think the short we're going to fix how markets sometimes don't respond Is there commodity markets, commodity Well, if you think of stock markets are years, in ten years and always adjusting you know, equity prices adjust. well, sometimes it's forecasting the It actually is look at supply and demand So the most important thing is supply some inventory, how quickly you can So all commodities are different. commodity. especially if you look at it as look at it, that there is sort of a realizing what the deficit could be. shorts, everyone said, and what it might what they actually do will actually have I'm not going to worry about that. The deficit today is 7% of GDP. high inflation was three and a half The debt to GDP, 35% back then, 1982, The deficit say the biggest peacetime Deficits, by their nature, are And, you know, one point we have to deal I mean, I would beg the government to be committee authorized by the Congress up do it. kind of disaster in the market, and then wrong time. I will have a next year, probably not. 20% of GDP, probably, which we wait for I don't think so. So you mentioned government Libby She runs public policy over there. that when. to tell them no. president. annoy you or does it flatter you that can't run for president? I mean, there's no way that it was even So it's a little flattering. help our government do the right stuff. to make America far better off. times, a lot of things we've done, which or Republican, to be supportive, they're have hurt the lower 20%. Their income didn't go for 20 years. ridden neighborhoods. You know, we should we should something about it. policies put in place have the exact And that's what they heard. Well, the people who help the most at very clear headed about how we can lift up all of America. And I wonder why. a big company, you've got to work with Or is this just that you can't decide I will decide, okay, I will vote. want. I'm a citizen. I can say what I want. candidate, you know, And so but I'm do or something like that. that you wrote, you talked about how you president to have a private sector really advise half. Yeah. Which positions do you think should be? and we need the American public needs government. that's what they have. things that government should do. does, it doesn't do particularly well. It does a lot of things only the But we have to be, again, cold blooded, works, Does it work? people in government who were in the You may think whatever you want about, or teachers or stuff like lifetime That's not the same thing. in the real world. and closer to World War Two and needed He took the people scoring for years, DuPont and got them back. boards and grow the, you know, do these So it's about growing the economy. there. other as citizens, try to understand And I think it'd be great if the next where they say unify, put, you know, put cabinet, you know, which, by the way, is Eisenhower did. Eisenhower. They started the issues. He never blamed people. He never you know, he was always civil didn't denigrate the country, did a And so I just think it's a better way to than, you know, yelling and screaming at If someone theoretically were called suggest that they go, You know, I would suggest they go and And how do you think they can contribute So a major focus for you in your recent interviews has been geopolitics. And I wonder is what your time clients, arranging in preparation for potential different hotspots. of things and people like to tell us the What's the good spin out there? anything like that. truth. And, you know, we have this war now, you Ukraine. have been kidnapped and sent to Russia North Korea are acting in cahoots. But there ain't to in Russia. about dismantling the world order set up Two, which have been quite successful in You know, they want to do it differently I don't think it's a good idea for the And and, of course, the terrorist acts know, basically on three or four sides. American warships are being attacked You know, the head of the FBI just said. externally to the United States have I think there was a lesson on when The world isn't a safe place. it's safe and somehow peace is at hand. means really spend more money, at least We need a very strong economy. we do to national security, you know, allies in trade, finance, development, If you want to hold the world together. important thing for dwarfs. landing the next 12 months. all of us who have dealt with that many That is not a big deal, I guess. client about what national security is? Is it a I mean, basically, how do you live in? So this is a very important question. risk, when you look at the potential look at a range of outcomes and try to that happened, you know, could war Absolutely. It can cause it may have no effect, but And then on strategy specifically, we've Army national intelligence guy, forming people, internal people to answer You know, what is national security? small garden with high fences, which is garden. A lot of companies are still looking at They would say, no, I get these But inside that component is a very So it's going to take a while. security, has the right to say that national security. And then there's the related. behavior. EVs and and and competition. But it also needs to be addressed.