One of my favorite things in life is when in everyday household items. Many of us have so many interesting things Take kitchen appliances, for example. They're often a lot simpler than at first that simplicity is accomplished with I'm talking, of course, about toasters. Yes, the toaster, perhaps the silliest household A single-purpose receptacle in which you place burned for your enjoyment. Delicious. Electric toasters have come a long way from good grief that's terrifying-- wonder no more when the toast The jumpscare potential has been completely And wanna toast more than bread? What about a bagel? Be amazed as the side elements turn off, toasting Innovation at work! Of course, if you actually go back a mere that is better than modern toasters in nearly You're right, sally, it is like magic. But ignoring the surprising backward steps of toaster technology, let's get to the This toaster was a mere $8.88. That's only $4.44 per slice! Now, perhaps it's not surprising to you It is after all simply a small box with a (that's an alloy of nickel and chromium) forming bread-singeing How complicated can it be? All it has to do is turn on the heating elements for a while, then shut them off and lift the bread. Ah, but see, it's the way the simplicity First, have you ever tried to push the lever If you do, you'll notice that it simply No matter how hard you force it, the lever Why is that? Well, it turns out that this single lever and lifting mechanism, power button, switch and thing-that-moves-the-little-bread-squeezing--centering-things-in-and-out. Uh, to explain how it does all those things, And through the magic of buying two of them, Under the plastic covering is a sheet metal as a small circuit board. This circuit board doesn't do all that much, device as a whole is simply fascinating. First, notice these two pairs of contacts. These are what actually provide power to the In this state, there is no completed circuit. If you look at where the power comes in on and then it's got nowhere to go. This contact must be pushed down to complete Actually both pairs of contacts must be, as neutral side as well, a smart move to protect the hot and neutral wires reversed. If, when it's plugged in, I manually engage high-tech insulated poking devices, now power can flow through the toaster. You'll hear a slight buzz and see that the [buzzing of toaster] Not only do the elements But what is responsible for normally engaging Why, the lever of course. Also, I've just realized this isn't technically Why do we call it a lever? Wait, do we call it a lever? Let's double-check that Sunbeam ad. Yeah, lever. Hmm. Anyway when the lever reaches the bottom, press the contacts down, and thus complete That's not the interesting part, though, The interesting part is how it stays down. Remember, with the toaster unplugged, the It just pops right back up. But with it plugged in, now it will. How? Well, watch closely. Did you see that metal plate suddenly stick Watch again. That yellow thing is an electromagnet, and it will hold the lever in place which keeps the contacts pushed in and allows power to flow through the heating elements. Now you may have already figured out the double If the only thing holding the lever down is will work is with the lever held down, then let go of the spring-loaded lever, shut off now toast, in a violent fashion without warning. Fascinating. Which brings us to the other stuff on the Though we don't need much in the way of how long to hold down the lever, and thus These days it's handled with specialized (in a high-pitched, altered voice) which features Google Translate wasn't much help here, for all types of toaster, and it appears to how the chip itself is going to handle a bagel In any case, the main thing this chip is doing here to determine how long to stay on. And as we know from the datasheet, roast the Also, let's just get it out of the way that Tom Scott already did a video on this, but if the max time is 300 seconds, that's 5 And funnily enough the box suggests there are probably 300, as this is not a 6-position But I digress. Anyway, most of the other stuff on the board as its power regulator and smoothing capacitors, straight up to this yellow lead going into This might be designed to halve the available rectification, and indeed the middle section sections so perhaps that connects to the middle If I'm following my traces right, the actual transistor on the bottom, which is itself were looking at earlier. So, the IC is in control of the electromagnet kills the output to the transistor, which kills the power to the everything. Oh, and this little switch here, activated the left, will interrupt power to the electromagnet There's a bit of a poetic sadness to the When you press the lever down, it comes to Hello world! Let's see, first I've got to send power It looks like I'm getting 2.4 volts in on And then 137 seconds pass and it says "Time's Now I'll just stop sending power out on Before we were putting self-aware digital would do the same thing but more crudely. Often the timing was accomplished through darkness dial, being a potentiometer, would Once it's past a certain voltage level, a transistor, and pop goes weasel. And before that, a simple mechanical clock And I haven't even gotten into this complication; don't use time at all! Sometimes there's a bimetallic thermostat darkness adjust the temperature at which the No timer required. Newer toasters with digital circuits can use is cold and thus if it will need more time The sky's the limit when it comes to today's In fact, if you're looking for something on time-based temperature compensation circuits This design uses a second capacitor that is and slowly discharges after the toaster has If the toaster is immediately used again, The charge on this secondary capacitor effectively and thus will shorten the overall toasting helping to compensate for an already-hot toaster. If it hasn't been used in a while, the capacitor runs for the normal period of time. You may have spotted the "chip with temperature toasters probably have a similar hot-toaster-taming-timer. If anyone wants to look at this schematic be my guest, but I'll throw my supposition can stay awake for a while between toasts and thus can keep track of how long it's Anywho, I think I've had enough toast for Actually, I don't even really like toast. I haven't used my toaster in close to a In fact, I'm pretty sure the last time I in the "these are not pixels revisited" Yikes. And of course, I'd like to raise a toast these videos and my terrible puns coming. With the support of people like you, Technology I'll fill you in on the details pretty soon channel with a pledge of your own and get behind-the-scenes footage, as well as find please check out my Patreon page. Thanks for your consideration, and I'll toasty smooth jazz And, through the magic of buying two of them, (cord hits the microphone) That went really Often the timing was accomplished through [toaster pops up] So it definitely is temperature We figured that one out. Before we were putting self... [toaster pops (bleep) it's that fast! Ah, but see it's the way that simplicity First, have you ever tried to push the lever Toaster.... Often timing was accomplished through charging dial, being a potentiometer [toast pops up], Yeah I shoulda known...