This blog post ranks at the bottom And I'm going to try and move it And to prove that you don't need advanced to just the SEO basics. So here's the plan. Step 1. Find the root cause of why we're in position 7. Step 2. Plan the best way to rank Step 3: Implement the action items. Step 4. Ping Google for an assist. And Step 5. Rank #1 for &quot;blogging tips&quot;. We've only got one shot at this, so let's why we're not ranking at the top. So, when a page isn't ranking high, it's usually or the page just doesn't have enough quality If it's a content issue, we're a-ok. Google just thinks the other pages are a better But if we have a backlinks issue, it's game So after about five minutes researching weren't ranking at the top of Google. Yes! It's not a links issue. Check this out! See here, the top 2 pages have well under 100 we have over 200! And these are just raw numbers. But if you look at the pages that are actually perfectly legit sites. So yeah, from a quick glance, And I know exactly which SEO But first, we need to figure out what Google And this will help us form So let's Google for &quot;blogging tips&quot;. Ooooo... and this is good. This quick answer box is And technically anyone in And because we're in position 7, there's moving up in the regular blue link results. Now, to get the featured snippet, you basically the information from on the top page. And then you'll note the format they use, and either But this is where things get kind featured snippet optimization is a lot So here's the situation. Google is showing a list based And each item is a jump link which takes And our page is doing the exact same thing, but is that they clearly communicate Ours... not so much. Alright, so we have two options here. Option A is that we can use the SEO tactic And basically, all we'd need to do is to rewrite and we could also optimize But I am very tempted by option B. And that's to just rewrite the names of our contents, so it's easier for people And maybe, just maybe, we could jump to #1. The clear choice here was option A. But doing more research, rewriting our content, with us in step 4 was a big bet So option B was definitely interesting But the idea was based around Was I going to take a Hail Mary in I have to find out if option B will work. So off to work I went to implement But then something unexpected happened at hitting #1. Uhhh... so, an hour has already passed So, if this idea flops, I'm not sure I had severely underestimated And then it hit me - I was doing this all wrong. So I realized that I could have done And so I used this prompt. &quot;I'll give you our blog content, and I want you to so it's clear, direct, and easy Then I pasted in our post and boom... tips 1 - 24 donezo! And these are way clearer So all there was left to do was log and hit the Update button. We were just under two hours in and I So, when you update your content, the fastest is to send a request for indexing Thing is - it's nothing more than a request. There's zero guarantee that anything So I've just submitted the URL for indexing, that we'll be good. I'm going to check the results after lunch. But as I was eating a frigging delicious small-town the top spot. So I pulled out my phone, Googled for blogging Hold on, let me record this. We're ranking #1 right under And literally three hours ago, This is crazy! I was on top of the world. I gave our waiter a 100% tip, gave him a high-five, Our desktop rankings haven't budged, rankings aren't going to stick either. I wanted... no, needed that featured And to make things worse, as I was enjoying my only to find out that I had to leave in five hours. So now with only five real working hours Alright, so somehow, we have to do a full just so much work to be done. So here's my plan. Step 1. Figure out exactly what Google for &quot;blogging tips.&quot; Step 2. Speed-write the best article for Step 3. Ask Google for another assist. Step 4. Find out if our post deserves to rank #1. We haven't got a second to waste, so a search for &quot;blogging tips.&quot; So when I'm trying to figure out what I'm looking at three main things. First, I'm going to look at the titles So what kind of pages have they created? Is there a specific format they follow? Is there a specific audience they're targeting? Or is there a specific angle they've all taken? So, from the looks of it, all top pages are blog &quot;beginner bloggers&quot;, but we already know this. Which is why you gotta look at the second And SERP features are everything else So we already know that there's a featured snippet, But check out this question box here, If the box is true to its name, then that means are also searching for these queries. And this one, this one right here, is very-very So, we already know these people are beginner search for &quot;blogging tips.&quot; They don't have the goal of making more money, they just want to get better at blogging. Now, the final thing I'm looking for are commonalities things I might have missed. And the best way to do this is to just read which is what I'm going to do right now. This is taking forever. To be honest, I didn't really see anything in our or worse than ours. And I actually have no idea where to start. Even if I start writing now, I don't A big part of me wanted to give I even thought about starting over with another But then the most meta thing happened, prepared me for it. This video popped out on my home feed: The video had an entire section And after seven minutes of absorbing pure wisdom, So I wasted a bunch of time trying to do there's this report in Ahrefs called &quot;Also Talk About&quot; for blogging tips are talking about. So all I have to do is skim through this report and But doing this manually would have So I opened up ChatGPT and gave it this prompt: &quot;I'm going to give you two things. And #2. a list of keywords that I need you to tell me which keywords, my content based on the keyword list.&quot; And when I hit the return key, We barely talked about social media. We don't talk about a content strategy at all. We barely touch on email marketing and which is like blogging 101. And check out this tip: AI! I've literally used ChatGPT twice today to And I don't think any of the top-ranking pages a unique and fresh angle we can add to our post. And these parts right here remind me that Now I knew exactly what I had And I also knew that I had to cut out points audience that had the goal of It was time to speed write the best I literally wrote so fast that smoke And a few hours later... we Done! I have my doubts if this will work, but Now, before I run, we have to So I'll search for the URL in Search And done! All we can do now is hope that Google acts ahead of our competitors. So, hopefully by tomorrow morning And with the blink of an eye... it was morning. I already checked first thing and we But what I really wanted was that With only a couple of hours left to the 24-hour We didn't get it. Wix is still 1 and we are now technically obviously not the result we were going for. To be honest, it kind of feels crummy, with our content refresh, and I bet you It ranks... somewhere else... that's it! Google's search results are location-dependent. So I opened up my VPN with just one hour where we were ranking #1. Boston.. Nope Connecticut... Nope New York... The only thing holding me back were pictures I had done it. Yessss, we've got New York! And after checking 20 some odd locations, featured snippet in New York, Nebraska, And exactly five days later our post owned the All it took was a basic SEO