Four Noble Truths: The First Noble Truth (Dukkha). The Buddha began his explanation of the first a definition but with a list of common and death; of sorrow, lamentation, of association with the unbeloved, of separation Except for the last, none of these examples "not getting what you want" as referring the other examples of suffering--such as aging, them simply through the power of wishing being able to wish these forms of suffering top of the suffering already there. Instead, as following a course of actions that will actually Up to this point, the Buddha's explanation of familiar. We've all suffered in these ways Then, however, he summarizes the suffering common unfamiliar territory. In short, he says, the five he says, is something we've all experienced, terms. Only when we understand what can we begin to comprehend the first noble truth. "Aggregate" is a translation of the Pali word It also means the trunk of a tree--a meaning context. The use of the English term "aggregate" popular in 18th and 19th century European that work together in an organic unity--called random collections of things, called "aggregates." useful point that even though the physical and can seem to have an organic unity, they're it's important to bear in mind that the mind and that although those purposes they can also be more or less consistent--a The five aggregates are: * form: any physical phenomenon--although the object in itself, and more on the experience the primary focus is on how the * feeling: feeling-tones of pleasure, * perception: the act of recognizing, mentally * fabrication: the intentional * consciousness: awareness at the six senses (the There's something of an anomaly in that covers all five aggregates and yet in others the mental act of fabrication shapes your actual in the dimensions of space and time. It chooses made available by past actions, and turns those aggregates in the present. "Fabrication" as a name this mental process. As a term for all five processes of fabrication and the fabricated It's important to note that the Canon defines perceptions perceive, even form these aggregates are processes and As for "clinging-aggregates," this expression it refers to the act of clinging to the in the clinging. The experience of the may involve some stress, in that the aggregates but if there's no clinging, that stress doesn't referred to in the first noble truth is the the problem. The clinging is. Problem. The Clinging Is.&quot; you need to get a sense of what it Why did the Buddha choose to divide physical these five aggregates? Couldn't he The Canon doesn't give an answer to this of the aggregates is associated with the the act of feeding is something that all we define ourselves as beings: by latching on feed--either physically or emotionally--all * A sense of form: When you eat physical food, needs to be nourished--and that will be used to that will be used as food. When you feed on your assume for yourself in the imagination, and to * Feeling: You start with the painful feeling of for food; then there comes the pleasant feeling of followed by the added pleasure that comes when * Perception: You use perceptions to and to identify which of the things in your world also plays a role in identifying what is and basic perceptions: When children crawling they put it in their mouths to determine * Fabrication: In the context of feeding, evaluate strategies for finding food, for and for fixing it if it's * Consciousness is the act of being This shows that even though the term it refers to activities that are not but also intimately connected to your When we use these activities to feed, they But in the first noble truth, the Buddha is suffering. This is the first point where his Clinging - Upadana upadana, that means (a) sustenance and (b) takes sustenance from soil, or a fire from mind. This is where the interpretation of We feed off the aggregates in the same way that The implication here is that suffering feeding emotionally off the activities physical and emotional hunger. This is a second we enjoy clinging not only to our food, To accept the Buddha's analysis of we have to develop some dispassion for the clinging itself. This makes the first noble what makes it noble. It teaches us to step We work toward this dispassion by following the running away from suffering or trying to push it of comprehending it. We need to see for ourselves pain or stress. It's actually identical with the we understand clinging to the point where we have A first step in comprehending clinging is to identify its various types. * Sensuality-clinging: passion fantasizing about and planning sensual pleasures. * View-clinging: passion and desire for views about how the world is * Habit-and-practice-clinging: passion and desire for ideas that tell * Doctrine-of-self-clinging: passion and desire This list may sound arbitrary and abstract is talking about some very basic functions of you want in terms of sensuality. View-clinging world is and how it works. Habit-and-practice act in the world to get what you want. It's And doctrine-of-self-clinging relates to capable of controlling events in an attempt based on the way the world works, and the wants those wants are satisfied. Both of these as (3) a commentator, who judges the actions of and to decide if the consumer should raise &quot;These three functions of the self are your Doctrine-Of-Self-Clinging Is The Most The first three types of clinging define the for happiness. The balance of power among the and--even within a particular On the occasions when you want to reject all fantasies, you might be inclined to accept a pursuits are not subject to moral judgments, pursuit of pleasure wherever you find it. This your view of the world. At moments when you want in your ability to choose your actions, you'll be where choice is real. This would be a case your view of the world and what your There are not a few cases where people their desires of the moment. There are also shoulds and what is of a worldview to which psychology has detailed the suffering that comes one that's not limited only to those suffering described it as the ego's constant need to the wants of the id, and the "what is" of the between the shoulds and wants of the individual However you analyze it, this conflict is However, even though the first three which the self functions, the Buddha identified of clinging of all. In fact, only in a teaching he said, can people reach awakening. That's why you're invested in seeing the world a certain done in order to attain what you want. Without views of the world or of how you should This may be why, of all the different forms of which the Buddha focused the most attention the five aggregates. According to him, identical with any of the aggregates, as containing any of the aggregates, or as For example, you might identify yourself as or as an infinite consciousness or a little person inside the These four possibilities multiplied by self-identity views to which you might cling. So it follows that doctrine-of-self-clinging is And if we look carefully at the three roles of is suffering. The self-as-consumer, is constantly hungry. As the Buddha that wouldn't be enough to satisfy one the self-as-agent has to be constantly at trying to gain a measure of control over the way the consumer, with the self-as-commentator However, you can't uproot your sense of of clinging as well. Given that the self is what to act to gain pleasure, its identity is strongly finding what it wants. These, in turn, rely on You see this connection most clearly when you society undergoes radical change. The world is no get results come up empty-handed, and your very you need to construct a new self around new skills Conclusion About The First Truth are entangled in its desires, its worldviews, want to put an end to suffering, you not of self. You also have to uproot the other sensuality and to your sense of how you should These facts about suffering define the strategy can't be ended until you abandon the desires the second truth on the origination of suffering. for them to go. A first step in abandoning them with a new sense of who you are, of how the response to these new views. In other words, quest to end desire and clinging. That's the to the end of suffering. Once the path has done is totally free of desire and clinging, it can