On March 26, 2024 (just a few weeks ago, if you're ship struck one of the main support piers of Maryland, collapsing the bridge, killing and seriously disrupting both road and marine saw this in the news, and hopefully you've seen independent creators providing additional context. and I usually prefer to wait to discuss events from investigations, but I think it might engineering perspective about how we consider like this one, and why the Francis Scott and this is Practical Engineering. Today we're The Francis Scott Key Bridge was a steel I'm working on a video that goes into a lot more how they're classified, but this bridge had kind it off to our special guest correspondent, Well, Grady, I'm in Long Beach, California bridge that replaced an old arch/truss kind of looked like a baby Key Bridge, and the The Gerald Desmond Bridge was a truss a truss has lots of smaller connected This creates a rigid structure that's and that makes trusses efficient and clever when that used to be here were "through-truss" and the driving deck is suspended below the but it's not an actual arch with like a keystone each other together. No, this through-truss bridge nothing that breaks it up into sections. So continuous truss bridge. It's all one big piece, truss across its entire length. And then that load Now, the approach roads on each side are link together. They just look like concrete Well, you ask, what happened to that baby Key going to see it now is to turn on Grand Theft of it immortalized in Los Santos for all time. Beach demolished the old bridge and the last In its place, this new, fancier the Long Beach International Gateway. And what this bridge and the list of improvements they Baltimore might want to end up doing when And we'll talk about that in just a moment. When the Dali container ship lost power the support collapsed, and most of the truss central spans fell roughly vertically with the the truss on the northwest side separated toward the northeast span, taking several the ship had put out a mayday call before either end of the bridge to close it to traffic. of eight construction workers off the structure Just dealing with the salvage and removal of collapse has been a massive undertaking. Within cutting, lifting, and floating away huge chunks the main bridge, approaches, and the vessel. As of least seven floating cranes were involved, US Airways Flight 1549 from the Hudson River in the order of operations and the precision of debris underwater, they had to map it out to Access was a major challenge, and the stresses so it's been a slow and deliberate process to do safely. Fortunately for Baltimore, there can process the thousands of tons of material reopening the port to shipping traffic is a huge one of the approach bridges for smaller vessels of Engineers is making good progress on opening full-scale operations at the port will be able to affected either, the bridge carried thousands re-routed. There is a tunnel under the harbor that hazardous materials aren't allowed through, It's been more than a month since the event, we get an official report documenting the events like this are investigated by Board or NTSB. This independent government diligent also means slow. But events like this imagination isn't limited to past experiences, have the resources to answer the millions of so we lean on the hard lessons learned from When something terrible happens, it's really important that we collectively get changes are appropriate to our engineering But, at the risk of stating the case is pretty clear. You probably don't need an into a bridge pier would cause that bridge to engineers characterize situations like this so Collisions with bridges by barges and ships called "allisions" since a bridge isn't maritime industry than by bridge engineers. bridge collapses resulting from vessel impacts. such a big network of inland waterways, Two spans of the Queen Isabella Causeway Bridge with one of the piers. A year later, a bridge was hit by barges when the captain lost control, 2009, Popp's Ferry Bridge in Mississippi collapsed the Eggner's Ferry Bridge in Kentucky fell wrong channel. Before any of those, though, major focus on the problem. In 1980, a bulk crashing into one of the piers and collapsing the 35. The event brought a lot of new awareness and waterways. But piers aren't the only parts of a The Key bridge got into trouble because ship moves side to side in the wrong way Here in Long Beach, that really wasn't bridge columns were way inland here, so there and hit the column because the column was in takes no chances at all. Look how much Now, the Port of Long Beach were far getting hit vertically. The old bridge was 155ft sounds pretty tall to you, it sounded pretty tall But as we now know, ships are getting bigger and some of the modern ships that were trying to get lot of cranes and action happening over there. over 200ft. That's like a 20 story building to And this new, taller, Long Beach International they didn't want - having the shortest bridge that's gone now, and thankfully in a less tragic In the aftermath of the Sunshine Skyway collapse, community, both from the engineering and maritime investigation into the issue. One culmination was for consideration of vessel collisions. For are put out by an organization called the American Officials (or AASHTO), but there are similar A lot of infrastructure is designed for it just isn't feasible. This is something you have to draw a line somewhere that the code required us to design bridges with we just wouldn't build any bridges. It would be collisions too. The mass and kinetic energy wrap your head around. We just couldn't afford of withstanding a worst-case collision. Instead, probability" events, codes often set the standard going to be some possibility of an event like willing to bear for the benefit of having easy that answer, at least according to AASHTO for 0.01 percent probability in a given year. For some Yahtzee (five-of-a-kind) in a single throw. But the dice once every year. If you did it forever, but that doesn't mean it couldn't happen twice the structure not to survive in a worst-case collapsing from a vessel impact. And there's This is the general formula for the annual collision. You have all these factors that get number of ships that pass under the bridge in a that number might change over time. Then there's basically, the chance that one of those ships for this based on long-term accident statistics in factors based on site-specific issues like water geometric probability of a collision if a ship you don't know which way it's going to but if you're familiar with normal distributions distribution curve centered on the transit path of the aberrant ship to give you an approximation curve that intersects with the bridge piers is the if it loses control. And this is really the first because the farther the piers are from probability of a collision. And this factor can with staying in the channel, something that But, even if there is a collision, that doesn't is where the structural engineering comes into on the lateral strength of the pier and that force isn't as simple as putting a and it varies according to the size and type the angle of the collision, and a lot more. static load. And based on some testing, It's just based on the deadweight tonnage its velocity. It's interesting that they settled of the ship itself. But again, this analysis is to do it for every discrete grouping of vessel make sense, and since this one assumes every ship Just for illustration, the ship that hit the 34,000 tonnes. The NTSB report doesn't estimate say around 5 knots. That would be equivalent to million pounds if the ship was fully loaded, which in this equation). The Dali has a deadweight of knots on impact. That's equivalent to more again, assuming the ship was fully loaded (which, some back-of-the-envelope physics. Force know the mass of the ship and its cargo from that mass from 5 knots to a standstill over roughly, a force of 72 meganewtons or 16 that is a staggering number. It's 5 SpaceX Designing a bridge to handle these forces pier itself that has to survive, but every including the foundation, and (assuming the pier Again, it's not impossible to design, but it more knobs to turn to meet the code than just knobs is pier protection systems. Fenders can be but for ships of this size, they would have to to force ships aground before the hit the bridge. of the fill placed on the river bottom, plus they span has to be wider to keep the channel from in the water and the bridge structure, creating after construction. Another commonly used is usually a circular construction of driven sheet slow a ship, stop it altogether, or redirect piers. The new Sunshine Skyway Bridge used islands actually, the Key Bridge had four dolphins, one on because it came at an angle, the Dali slipped It's important to point out that everything consider vessel impacts to bridges. When the there were no requirements like this, and or repair that would have triggered adherence of Dali didn't even exist until around of the future will look like. It's easy this should have been better protected against you really have to say it for all the bridges represents an enormous investment of resources public, given how rare these situations are. it's just me saying that a decision like that don't expect we'll see bridge design code changes certainly be on the minds of the designers for the When you take a look at photos of the Key Bridge, care of their bridge. So if the NTSB report comes 100% the ship that's at fault, well, I don't think But for the old Gerald Desmond Bridge here well, the environmental impact report, where they port staff really didn't seem too concerned about failure? Let's just say engineers scored bridges it gets 100 points. On that scale, the old scored a 43. I mean, anything below 80 points, to try to rehab it and get it back into good it's so bad the federal government starts throwing That's how bad off the Gerald Desmond Bridge was. sitting above sea water and all of that, just nice that paint was rated very poor on the paint protects all the bridge members, all the every single member of a truss is want the bridge to stay in good Engineers also conducted a load analysis. how the bridge was holding up. And they found for all design trucks. So that didn't matter They were all causing problems with the bridge. was all cracking up. It was rated critical. The of pavement that were falling off the bridge So, Long Beach had four objectives that this new those goals may mirror some of the ones Baltimore bridge. 1. This bridge had to have a design for that long. 2. Long Beach wanted to reduce the 155ft before. Sometimes you were driving up a 6% that would be way too steep. So they instead and on for like a quarter of a mile to lift people Baltimore's bridge already has some very long going to replace the, uh, ramps approaching the they end up deciding to do. 3. Provide sufficient traffic. The old bridge here was two lanes it to six. The Key bridge in Baltimore was also the traffic every day. You know, compared to And both the Key Bridge and the old Gerald vehicles and stalled cars to pull off to the these excellent shoulders on both the outside the road a lot safer, because you're not going to It's also a lot safer if you're not in your cross it without being in a car. They've added which is about 12ft wider than what they The only way across was inside a car. It's a the path just hits this gate and stops. The city It's called the Vincent Thomas Bridge. It's also so this pathway sort of just ends at the to go. But adding in a multi-use path like such a no-brainer. It could take a four mile bike down from four miles with the bridge And finally the fourth goal: providing vertical which the new bridge certainly has. And I'm willing to bet that Baltimore will and talk about horizontal clearance and insist on like what happened on March 26th Thanks Rob. If you love deep dives go check out his channel after this. But, just a bridge failure; it was a bridge failure Obviously, engineers who design bridges safety standards, and navigation requirements if you look at the whole context of this tragedy prevent something like this from happening this size losing control has to be included with systems. I don't know a lot about that stuff, but I'm sure NTSB will have some recommendations tugs accompany large ships while they like a prudent risk reduction measure, but And, speaking of risk reduction, I have to say is really not that satisfying. We humans are and risks, and engineers are not that great who don't speak that language. That's how we get And it's unsettling to come face-to-face with and built to code, there's still a chance of but the people driving over the bridge (or working drawn or whether it applied retroactively, even as why we do it this way. The question isn't "Can we is always "yes." The real question is, "How much "How much are we willing to spend on any answers to those questions are much more complex to survive worst-case collisions with ships like sometimes it takes an event like this to remind of paper. They represent real consequences, and affected by this event. I hope we can honor them both to our infrastructure and our maritime The Key Bridge collapse is a really interesting different areas of understanding. Obviously, perspective, but there's just as much, if side. Ships and marine navigation are and my friend Sam from Wendover Productions the crazy sophistication of the commercial to learn about the little details behind this entire series, "The Logistics of X" is You probably know about Nebula now, even if built by and for independent creators. No studio no advertisements, and no algorithm driving independent creators making stuff their excited possible between you and us. The website just the home page, making it easier to find My videos go live on Nebula before they come was specifically produced for Nebula viewers who I know there are a lot of streaming platforms monthly cost to keep track of, but I also know there is a ton of other stuff on Nebula that it dead simple: click the link below and you'll 30 dollars, for an entire year's access at subscription fatigue, but still want to support Pay once and have access for as long as you time! If you're with me that independent I hope you'll consider subscribing. Thank you