Hello everyone, today I went camping to my favorite place for the first time in a while, and when I arrived, it was drizzling. Mori was smelling the rain-soaked forest for a while. I think I should hurry up pitching before the raindrops get bigger. - Mori, I'll do it quickly - Oppa~ It's raining a lot now.. I think we need to hurry up - Mori go in, go in, go in... haha Mori was trying to escape, but got caught. It's going to rain all day today, so all the doors are made of urethane. I'm going to change it to a window - Sohyun, when I laid the rug first, it rained so much in an instant that the inside of the tent got wet - Mori, I'll see you~ I'll lay the rug for you. I prepared a cozy rug for Mori today as well - Sohyun, can you open the mesh? Mori is moving out of the way so she can comfortably lay the rug. Let's enjoy the rainy forest through the transparent window for a while. Then, I should quickly finish setting up the indoors and enjoy camping in the rain. - Mori, I'll lay the rug here~ - Haha, it's cute - It's a bulldog. Lay out the cute rug. Juni makes me feel even warmer - Wow.. Why did it rain so much today? Mori fell into a sweet sleep while listening to the sound of rain. Once I got the kitchen utensils ready, I finished setting up the room. She and Mori fell asleep for a while, and I thought about a cold beer. I arrived late today, and it was already dark outside. So, I have to start preparing for dinner after preparing Mori for dinner. The raindrops are getting thicker and heavier, and it's already dark outside. It's coming down. Onion , minced pork, onion dumpling skin - Cut into squares... - How many? - About 20? Allulose soy sauce and oyster sauce - Oh, you're good at it? - Just square For today's dinner menu, I'm going to make dim sum using dumpling skin. I'm going to spread the dumpling skin thinly with a freeze-dried ginger rolling pin, then put the filling in it and steam it with a cypress steamer. - Isn't this a little too much? - LOL (It's funny even when I think about it) - Oppa... - I'll take care of your shape~ Oppa, prepare the Jjamppong. With her dissuasion, I have to prepare Jjamppong pasta to go with it. Red pepper oil, marbled minced garlic, cabbage pasta, bok choy. It's a one-pan jjamppong pasta that boils all the shrimp and zucchini ingredients together, so we'll also add all the seasoning. Coin broth - Wow.. It's raining more. As the night deepens, the rain is falling harder. Her dim sum is already ready. Then, I'll enjoy a highball while the dim sum and pasta are cooking - It's been a while - Wow, I fell asleep for a while . Mori woke up - why did you wake up? - It smells delicious - Why did you wake up when you could sleep? - Oh hoho - Awesome.. - Wow, it's right - Yes, it looks really delicious - Mori will give you cabbage, take a bite of dim sum first - It tastes like jjamppong haha Mori takes a bite of the cabbage he likes - I gave you a bite, so I take a bite. - Hmm, it looks so delicious. I think Jjamppong pasta was an excellent choice on a rainy day . - But the dim sum... it was very good, just like the dim sum we know. Not moist? - Is it because we made it too big? - I think we left it out on purpose to keep it moist. Haha . - That's right, it's delicious if you eat it like this . - Hehe.. I traded my clothes for dim sum that wasn't moist enough. Haha Mori is camping in the rain . I'm so happy that I like this. Now I have to prepare a snack for Mori that will make him feel better for the night . For the remaining time, I'm going to shoot a beam at the skin in the front room and look at it. Even the sweet potato is finished, so everything is perfect - Oh, I think it's good - I'll let it cool and give it to you - Wow, it's really well cooked, right? This is my first sweet potato of the year roasted on the stove, and it's so delicious. It tastes even better when I eat it inside a warm tent while listening to the sound of rain. It rained so heavily all night, but the morning cleared up as if it had never happened. The weather was so nice that I grabbed a chair and went outside - How can the weather be this good? - So - Wow, it rained so much that night... Rosati's sugar croissants, Mori's sweet potatoes baked yesterday , her and I's croissants with a crunchy sugar - The croissants are coming... which means winter is coming soon. Two in Americano too. I'll just put in a little bit. I really like the chewy texture of the sugar. - It's so nice to see the sun rise. - I'm going to dry the tent and go. One day, I listened to the sound of rain inside the tent, and then another day. It was perfect camping in the rain because I could really feel the late fall. Today is a two-night plan, so I'll rest for one more day without the camera and then go back. Then, thank you for watching today and we'll meet again next camping!