To understand where we came from--how earth, are today--we need to understand how it all began. For example, how did the first galaxies pull ocean of gas that followed the Big Bang? With the James Webb Space Telescope we're It's hard work because at those crazy distances If only we could see the individual stars Well, now using this one weird trick we can Or at least we have done so for one lonely star at the But it won't be lonely for long. A top contender for most distant star we can star in the constellation Cassiopeiae. It's 16,000 light years away, so just a Stars more distant blend together into the galaxy its name. We can pick out those more distant stars with But it was only a bit over a century ago that the brightest individual stars from our nearest As our telescopes improved we were able to to greater and greater distances. But it feels like there's a fundamental Our telescopes can only get so big, they can The most distant galaxies seem destined to to come. Unless, but some happy chance, an individual be directly behind an entire cluster of galaxies, its light by gravitational lensing. And that happy chance has happened. Meet Earendel - the farthest star ever seen distant. Now that's double the distance of the previous first direct glimpse of the first generation Earendel was first spotted by the Hubble Space It was a lucky find, showing up as an inexplicably Survey, or "RELICS." The RELICS was all about finding extremely been traveling to us for most of the age of By peering back in time this way, we can learn ocean of dark gas that filled the universe Studying the early galaxies is one of the main goals of the James Webb Space Telescope, but with some extra cleverness the older Hubble can do some of It needed a bit of help to see that far, in gravitational lens. RELICS looked towards and through clusters galaxies behind clusters whose light is warped With this trick, the RELICS team the first billion years of the universe. And in one of those galaxies a single star It seemed impossibly bright, even under the galaxy's light. They named the star 'Earendel'. It's a good name, and one with a deep It's the old English for "morning star," even sunrises. It probably comes from Old Norse, Aurvandill, off and Thor tossed into the sky to make a That was all new knowledge to me. I knew the name in the alternate spelling Earendil. A name borrowed by Tolkien for a character in his Silmarillion. You know, the half-elven Earendil the Mariner, Father of Elrond and Elros, who wears one sky, and that's Tolkien's Venus creation A little more romantic perhaps than a frost-bitten But either way, Earendel-dil is a good name for And a distant one. Earendel is 28 billion light years away. Now astronomers usually don't talk about For such distant objects we just refer to Because the universe is expanding, a photon wavelength increases. The more time it spends traveling, the more So if we measure this redshift of light we point. That also tells us the distance to that starting For comparison, light that's been traveling stretched by about the same factor, giving Earendel's redshift is 6.2--it's light That gigantic redshift means its light must years--most of the age of the universe. The star is now 28 billion light years away was traveling to us, it was racing away from At this crazy redshift, all of Earendel's reaches us as infrared light. Hubble is optimized for visible light, so light--just its shortest wavelength ultraviolet sensitivity. Now, it sure would be nice if we had a space telescope even bigger than Hubble that was sensitive to infrared light. Well what do you know? We do. The James Webb Space Telescope has a collecting and was designed especially for work deep allowing it to see galaxies in the early universe. Seeing one of the individual stars inside one of these Here's the Hubble image of Earendel and This faint streak on either side is the star's The galaxy doesn't really look like this. It would be a much more compact bundle of across the sky by the vast gravitational field in the foreground. Smeared and amplified--and the amplification in the first place. Gravitational lensing is really an incredible It lets us see much further than we otherwise Let's do a quick review of how this works.In a distant object that would normally not reach an intervening gravitational field. In the case of so-called weak lensing, this looking through rippled water. But if the alignment of the lens and the source otherwise have traveled in very different This is called strong lensing. In the case of a lens with perfect circular lens and source, rays traveling in all different Now the warped image looks like a perfect ring. We do see Einstein rings, but they're rare. Normally the alignment isn't quite perfect Break either of those and the ring fragments. For example, into multiple images for very sources. Individual lensed images are also magnified. Just like a glass lens can bend diverging focus, thereby increasing brightness, a gravitational For a glass lens the magnification is the point relative to your eye--then all diverging Gravitational lenses are messier, and instead have a focal curve called a caustic. They'll be this star-like structure for a simple gravitational field. You see similar shapes when you shine light rippled water. The caustic curve represents boundaries in the plane of the source. When the source crosses those boundaries new images appear or vanish. As the source approaches a caustic curve, multiple images can come together and overlap as they merge. Leading to a large increase in the amplification of it's brightness. And that's exactly what happened with Earendel. In this case it's very near the caustic one of the galaxies in its cluster. The rest of Earendel's home galaxy spans extends far beyondthis particular caustic, and is actually being magnified and smeared by the gravitational degree than Earendel is. But this star, with its happy position, experiences and could be up to 40,000. At the lower limit, we're gaining the light in diameter. On either side of Earendel, you can also see one of in the same galaxy. That cluster is close to the caustic curve, As a result its multiple images are sufficiently OK, so now we've found this distant Like I said, Hubble was only able to capture of that light being redshifted outside Hubble's But Webb is sensitive to much of Earendel's Here's what we know so far. "De-redshifting" the light we can compare of the star--to known stellar types. Earendel appears to be a blue-ish white type times more massive than the Sun with a surface On top of that, there also seems to be an which astronomers think could be due to a This isn't unusual. 50 solar mass stars often have binary the two stars combined with the uncertain how massive and luminous each star is. One proposed explanation is that about 600,000 times brighter than the sun, while about 200,000 times brighter than Earendel is important for a bunch of reasons. For example, both it and its newly discovered we have for the earliest stars. We know a lot about star formation in the it happening. We have countless snapshots of star formation the Milky Way and in relatively nearby galaxies. Meanwhile our surveys of individual stars across the of the star formation process. We can check our calculations and computer figure out how modern star formation works. While we can still do computer simulations not much to check those simulations against. But still, those simulations have revealed tantalizing For example, we know that the gas from which these "pure" -- almost entirely hydrogen and These days that gas is polluted by heavier generations of stars. Computer simulations show that this early, than later, polluted gas--something we've In the Milky Way today around 3% of new stars have masses 10 times the sun's mass or higher. The majority will be relatively low mass stars On the other hand, simulations of early galaxies more than 10 solar masses. So really hefty stars like Earendel may have early universe. Being around when the universe is 900 million that Earendel is one of the very first generation of That would be truly incredible. We've never seen one of the founding batch But even being from an early generation of things about this star's parents. All of this is really important for understanding and galaxies pulled itself together from the gas that existed after the big bang. Earendel is not a totally solved star. We don't know how much magnification it's until we model the lens a lot better. And its fainter red companion is even more But this is a seriously exciting new line While we can't say a ton yet from the current star and the discovery of new objects like For example, if we can get better information to tell whether it really does have the low early star. Perhaps we even confirm that it's mostly that it being a first generation star. If we can find more lensed stars like this That can tell us if massive stars really were The specifics of the resulting population star formation in the early universe. Now upcoming giant surveys of the sky are definitely Hopefully some of them will have a star conveniently to see that star. I do enjoy the severed-digit themed origin stories origin story of Tolkien. But as our new and next generations of incredible dawn, we no longer have to invent our own We can know it. Will the help of Earendel, the star at the of observable spacetime.