cheers I really can't drink anymore What are you afraid of? I booked a room If we get drunk Can you go upstairs and take a rest? This is your room card. Thank you then. I really can't drink anymore Have fun This is Huo Zhiting's spare room card. He just drank drugged wine. elder sister This time I will definitely deal with Huo Zhiting sorry You don't have eyes. I feel dizzy. Where is my room? Yuzheng, why are you here? Autumn U Masashi Is that you? Yu Zheng's phone number It's over. It's over. So who is he? How did you get out of the hotel? How did you get out of the hotel? just Do you know I'm worried about you getting into trouble. I've been looking for you all night. U Masashi I drank last night so What is this What's going on? You last night Who did you go fooling around with? I don't U Masashi Listen to my explanation Explain what You've been dating me for so long Don't let me touch Then you are outside Find another man You hurt me You loosen who With whom you say Can you calm down? careful There is someone in front U Masashi She lost a lot of blood quick Call an ambulance quick Can't fight The ambulance is here We knew we hit someone. If you don't say it, I won't say it. No one knows we hit it. Hit-and-run is a felony The police will definitely find it. Call an ambulance quickly no It's not easy for me Just joined the Huo Group Call the police now My bright future is ruined. Rain Don't you have a driver's license? You can say you hit it. You are crazy no Why not? Didn't you say you love me? Even this little thing You don't want to help me I'm not because of you The person who just hit But I Yu'er, help me My mother is still lying in bed Need me to make money As long as you help me What happened last night? I will forgive you Yeah, I'm really sorry for you. This time I'll just pay you back. This time I'll just pay you back. good Rain Thank you Thank you Rain Wait till this is over. I will definitely marry you You go quickly I'm going to call an ambulance. Go! Go! 120? Come on, come on and save someone Check Who was that woman last night? yes Mr. Huo Not good Your sister was in a car accident. Doctor, please save her. Save her! Excuse me Can't enter sorry Please, you must come alive. Where's my sister? Where's my sister? Doctor, where is my sister? Sorry, Mr. Huo We tried our best impossible It was fine in the morning. It was fine in the morning. impossible Zhiwan Zhiwan If Miss Huo Five minutes early Can rescue Unfortunately, the driver Wasted time Where is the driver? Mr. Huo That's Why Why not earlier? Send him to the hospital for emergency treatment sorry I'm really sorry You should be the one to die sorry Mr. Huo You're strangling her to death. Letting go I won't accept your apology. I will use all means To revenge you Make you live a life worse than death Zeyuan Find a lawyer I want her to spend the rest of her life in jail. Blue Rain You'll serve seven years. Good transformation Strive to start a new life as soon as possible Mr. Huo The hotel's surveillance was broken that night. Technology is trying to fix it But it is difficult to repair Repair it as soon as possible Find that person yes besides Mr. Huo Blue Rain has announced the verdict Sentenced to seven years Seven years Too cheap for her. Find someone in prison Let her live a life worse than death yes Sisters Newcomer Let's welcome her warmly. Don't come over here Beat me to death Don't stop Hit and Run Killing people You beautiful lady Beauty Atone your sins. Blood Bleeding This little bit of blood won't kill anyone. Let her flow more I can't die like this. I'm going out to see my mother. I also want to see Yu Zheng Help! Help You are three months pregnant Be more careful next time. Doctor, what did you say? I am pregnant How can you be so careless? I didn't even know I was pregnant Sorry baby Let you follow your mother Suffering here I won't allow Someone hurt you To the prison guard What to say What not to say Please remember this for me. For the baby I have to teach him a lesson today. Boss Are you okay? My face Next time if you dare to mess with me It's your throat that's bitten Blue Rain You wait for me I will kill you sooner or later Don't be afraid, baby Mommy's dying Will protect you too Use force The baby is coming out Use force Almost there. Almost there. The baby is out Gave birth to a boy Beauty No matter how arrogant you are Your child It's not in my hands. I want you for my whole life Never see you again My own son sister You're because of me Found out by Huo Zhiting The drug thing In prison But fortunately I have this child now I'll be able to get you I'll be able to get you Get out of jail Xinxin Are you sure this child It belongs to Huo Zhiting I am sure I turned on the surveillance. Found this beauty Found this beauty Ruined my good fortune But later I destroyed the surveillance. Huo Zhiting You'll never know the truth so I can be honored by my son Marry Huo Zhiting Why are you crying? With you Like a nasty mother doctor Where is my child? Didn't I tell you? Your child is dead The body has been disposed of. impossible I have heard The child is crying You killed my child. Right? Did you kill my child? Did you kill my child? Are you crazy? You killed my child. Blue Rain Because you performed well Released from prison two years earlier Don't go back after you get out. Start a new life well Thanks You're a scumbag Scum Are you worthy of my daughter? You promised to marry her. You promised to marry her. Are you worthy of my daughter? Are you worthy of my daughter? You're a scumbag Letting go You're a scumbag bodyguard Scum The bodyguard chased her away mom You are not human You know her You have no conscience Explain it to me clearly Let me go Today is the day Yu'er is released from prison If you have any conscience Just come with me to pick her up Aunt Lan I am looking at For the sake of Lan Yu I tolerate you again and again Don't leave anymore Don't blame me for being ruthless Don't blame me for being ruthless you You rubbish Why are you all standing there? Get her out Let me see her again later Get out of here, all of you. Dead old woman Dead old woman It's not good to pester someone Haunting Manager Zhang We almost lost our jobs. roll Roll as far as you can Beat you to death Beat you to death mom Mom, are you okay? Rain Is it really you? It's me mom I'm out Come up We go home I won't leave Zhang Yuzheng, that scumbag He tricked you into going to jail for him. I failed you I want to discuss with him I want to discuss with him The old woman still wants to make trouble The old woman still wants to make trouble It seems that I didn't hit him hard enough just now. I'll give you a few more punches Don't come over here. Come again I called the police. Call the police Don't even look at where this is. Hotels under the Huo Group Dare to act wild here Slandering Manager Zhang Don't talk nonsense to them. stop Stop it! Mr. Huo is here. You should be the one to die Huo's Group hires you It's for you Keep order here Who allowed you to bully others? Mr. Huo They are making trouble here We just taught them a lesson The police will take care of the riots In addition to expelling No right to hit people The Huo family does not tolerate lawless people. Zeyuan exist Fired them Send to the police station Mr. Huo We were wrong Please give us another chance Take it down Follow me Feel sorry Let the two of you in my Huo Group Such a bad experience If you need I'll send someone right away Send you to the hospital I'd like to ask Have we met somewhere? mom We go home cousin You are here Yuzheng and I Come out to greet you Isn't this Blue Rain? I heard you killed someone. Went to jail How come it came out so quickly? Wrongful Death Five years in prison, almost. But Blue Rain You come to participate Woo Jung's Engagement Ceremony Would you like to follow him? Let's renovate the old A murderer like you. But he is not worthy of the current Yuzheng. But he is not worthy of the current Yuzheng. He is from the Huo Group. General Manager Wang Xing What nonsense are you talking about? Yu Zheng had already been with this murderer Draw a line Now people love Only Miss Zhang What you said It was five years ago The one that killed Zhiwan? right That's it It's you Killed my cousin Beauty How do you hit someone? Don't talk about me like that, Yu'er she mom Stop arguing with them. Let's go It's you. Mr. Huo sorry What happened to your sister? It was my fault But I was in jail too Got punished I beg you to let me go, please? joke Five years in prison I just want to exchange my sister's life The law protected you. Welcome to Hell on Earth You let go She's not like that. She is taking the blame for someone else. no No you Don't say anything U Masashi Your ex-girlfriend and her mother It's disgusting The evidence is solid Still dare to shirk responsibility People like them Should be put in jail for life Zhilin I have nothing to do with her. You are the murderer Murderer Murderer murderer Murderer Murderer Murderer Murderer murderer Murderer Murderer murderer murderer murderer murderer mom What's wrong with you Are you okay? mom I'll take you to the hospital. Did I let you go? I'm really sorry Your sister's car accident It was my fault I went to jail Now he is being punished How can you hit me and scold me? It will be all right But my mother is innocent. She has a heart condition Can I Send her to the hospital first. Do you think you can go? I beg you Save my mom You're such a person I will also shed tears for my loved ones I thought A murderer like you Is it a heart of stone? Zhiwan also wanted you to save her But how did you do it? I Zeyuan take away yes Don't touch my mom Mr. Huo sorry I really know I'm wrong I've been in prison for five years I always I'm repenting my mistakes. I also suffered Look These injuries on my body It's all my suffering If you feel If these are not enough You can hit me and scold me at will Abuse me It will be all right Even my worthless life You can take it if you want. You can take it if you want. I beg you to raise your hand Give my mother a chance to live OK I beg you cousin Don't let her go People like her Just let her kowtow Revenge for Zhiwan Zeyuan Give the order The whole city banned Blue Rain No company is allowed Provide her with any job opportunities Mr. Huo Blue Rain I want you to watch Your mother was buried with my sister. Why mom Mom, wait for me I'll call someone right away Hello 120? Come and rescue my mother Ms. Zhang is in the middle stage of cancer Ms. Zhang is in the middle stage of cancer The situation is not optimistic doctor Could it be a misdiagnosis? No misdiagnosis Miss Blue Are you ready for medical expenses? Go through the hospitalization procedures I'm good for her too Arrange for follow-up treatment Thank you Little Master Your day Didn't eat much. You better eat something. This is me, Queen Mother. Brought to you specially Your favorite crystal shrimp dumplings You better eat something. oops I don't eat Daddy doesn't allow me to look for Mommy Daddy doesn't allow me to look for Mommy I won't eat Little Master You've gone on hunger strike so many times. Sir, no This time I don't think it will succeed. Little Master Where are you going, little master? Miss Blue After paying this month's fee You follow up every month I need to prepare 50,000 yuan. good I see Thanks mom what do I do Huo Zhiting blocked me Don't let anyone Provide me with job opportunities Where should I make money? Don't run away, young master. Little\Young Master mom Let's eat Let's eat Rain Where am I mom You are in the hospital You fainted So I took you to the hospital. Do a check I'm in good health. Don't waste this money. Please vacate this ward immediately. mom No rush Eat first before leaving OK Eat first No rush Pretty Aunt Pretty Aunt Can I have some? Whose child is this? Sir, it's not good. The young master is missing. Lots of good things How come it disappeared? Didn't I ask you to look after him? I've been guarding him. But Xiaoye Asking to see mom I'll get him something. This turning effort I can't see him anymore. Let me get the surveillance. If only What's the difference? I can't forgive you Go yes Pretty Aunt The food you cook is delicious Really This child looks Looks like you when you were a kid. Especially these eyes Really That beautiful auntie Could it be my mom? How is this possible? My Rain Never had a child oh All right kid Where's your mom? My dad said My mom I died just after I was born. I died just after I was born. But I think My mom must be alive I ran out secretly Looking for mommy But kid You escape like this It is wrong to leave the grave Parents will worry Wait until you finish eating Can Auntie take you home? My dad won't worry about me. He only has work in mind I'm sick and in the hospital He doesn't care about me Very spicy So spicy Come Drink some water Slower Don't choke. Why you There will be this birthmark impossible My child is dead Pretty Aunt You hurt me Let go of my son Blue Rain You really are unrepentant. Kidnapping my son Wang Ma called the police I want this woman Stay in prison for life I don't Daddy Pretty aunt didn't kidnap me Let her go. Let her go. You let her go quick mom Huo Zhiting I don't know He is your son If you know I won't follow him. There is a slight relationship You think I will believe your lies Anyway You won't believe anything I say. You call the police. The police will find out everything. what you say Of course I won't believe a word of it besides Are you ready for the rest of your life? In prison Just stay here honestly. Just stay here honestly. Pretty aunt is not a bad person Daddy You hurt her. Duoduo She is a bad woman She's going to kidnap you. Then threatened dad Wang Ma took Duoduo away yes Young Master, please follow Wang Ma. I just spent one day with Duoduo He just listens to you. He just listens to you. Blue Rain You are really good at it. Who called the police? Who called the police? This woman kidnapped my son. Please send it to the police station. Severe punishment I don't Ma'am, please follow us. I don't He made my mother faint. Walk Let me go I won't go with you. doctor I beg you Save my mom Police Comrade I didn't kidnap Why is it you? Otherwise, who do you think Huo Zhiting I don't want to see you You go Let me go roll Rain I've suffered so much. Still haven't learned Zhang Yuzheng You really make me feel so strange What you said to me before Have you forgotten everything? I didn't forget I love you very much But you are a A woman who has been in prison I'm with you No help for me But married Zhang Zhilin I can enter The power center of the Huo Group How could I give up on her? Choose you? I'm here to take the blame for you. Only then Now this is the end If you have any conscience You shouldn't Say something like this What's the use of conscience? Aren't you afraid that I will tell you the truth? Tell Huo Zhiting? Huo Zhiting has already Contacted the legal team Requesting a retrial Child trafficking Maximum sentence of 20 years Rain As long as you ask me I will put you Get it out of here But in return You have to be my lover Zhang Yuzheng I tell you Even if I die I won't be with you Rain Don't talk too much If you don't promise me Then you just have to wait He's been closed for life I'll give you three days to think about it. I don't consider Just give up on this idea. good This is what you said after You kneel down and beg me I won't give you another chance That's right Your mother is still in the emergency room. I don't know if she can still Live and wait Your daughter is out of prison. Zhang Yuzheng How is my mom? Visitors I want to see Huo Zhiting I didn't kidnap his son. He didn't kill his sister. Little Master Just take a bite. You these two days Nothing Eat well. Don't starve yourself. Don't starve yourself. good Have a bite Don't take the beautiful aunt Bring it to me I won't eat I won't eat I want to starve my daddy's son to death gentlemen Children can't stand being hungry. If the young master continues to toss like this I'm afraid I'm going to get sick. Don't worry If you don't eat, you'll be hungry. Bad Daddy I will ignore you forever Master Not good The young master is sick. Call a doctor Call a doctor son Bad daddy, I don't want you to hug me Be obedient Don't you want to see your mother? Daddy promised to let you see mommy But you have to promise me Not in front of me Not in front of me Let's talk about Blue Rain again no Pretty Aunt Didn't kidnap me Daddy You let her go The Woman What's so good about it? Let you turn to her like this Dad often warns Duoduo Be a sincere child Be an honest child Don't lie Duoduo just told the truth The pretty aunt really didn't kidnap me I ran out by myself. Hello? Mr. Huo We have already tuned in Hospital surveillance Showing that Ms. Lan is indeed I didn't kidnap your son. He ran in by himself. I see I miss my pretty aunt. Zeyuan You go to the police station Bring out the Blue Rain besides Reward of 10 million Found that night All appearing in Hotel woman Do paternity tests one by one Find that woman. Mr. Huo I didn't kidnap your son. Your sister Shut up You are not qualified to mention Zhiwan Look at Duoduo I've been begging for you. I can let you go. As your atonement for Zhiwan I hope you can Step by step Kneeling to the Huo Family Atonement in front of Zhiwan's tablet otherwise I have many ways You can go in again. Mr. Huo You have checked I didn't kidnap your son. The truth is out, isn't it? I'll only give you three seconds. Time considerations I promise Blue Rain There's nothing to feel sorry for. The original car accident You are half responsible No matter what the Huo family is like You deserve the punishment. gentlemen This place is five kilometers away from Huo's house. Kneel down Her knees are probably going to fail. You feel bad No She killed Zhiwan I only broke her two knees. Cheap for her See clearly She is Zhiwan who was killed by you Your hands are stained with her blood I can't clean it up in this life sorry sorry Remember Don't get close to Duoduo anymore. otherwise Not today Such a light punishment. Why Throw out my mom's stuff. Miss Blue Our hospital Investors said Not to your mother Hospitalization Your mother has Discharged from hospital What she left behind We can't just stay I can only throw it out. But my mother is still sick. How can you bear it? Throw her stuff out. Miss Lan is really not I am not human Investors have to do this We don't do what he says. Will be fired Please forgive us. Hello Rain My gift to you Do you like it? Zhang Yuzheng You are not a human but a beast This is just the beginning Let's continue See how long you can hold on. Hello Zhang Yuzheng Hey Mom Where are you? Rain I am your uncle Your mother is at my house now. Now her situation is not optimistic I want to take her to the hospital. But I don't have any money Call now Give me fifty thousand dollars that uncle Can you first Can you lend me 50,000 yuan? It's not that uncle doesn't want to help you It's the family's money. Your aunt is in charge. she All right I see I'll gather the money as soon as possible. Hello Excuse me, is this Miss Lan Yu? I am What's up Five years ago on June 10th Peace Hotel Registration With your name Now our group president Reward: 10 million Want to find the child's biological mother I want you to go to the hospital Do a DNA test Do a DNA test Excuse me That's definitely not me. I have something else going on. Miss Blue Every participant There is a compensation of 50,000 yuan. Just participate Fifty thousand dollars Yes OK, I'll go mom I can save you now I can save you now This is the president of Huo Group. Find a mother for my son If a blind cat meets a dead mouse Become the Honorable Mrs. Huo You just went to the Peace Hotel I'm not serious. Slept with Huo Zhiting This can also be faked Give it a try Anyway, it's unsuccessful I can get 50,000 yuan. It's a waste if you don't take it Xu Fangfei DNA test result Wang Nana DNA test result It turned out that Huo Zhiting was Find a mother for his son If he knew I was coming In anger I don't know what will happen. But For Mom I have to do this I am the mother of Mr. Huo's son I am the mother of Mr. Huo's son That night I was the one who slept with him. This lady Your DNA test results whether The nurse's examination results There must be something wrong You are checking carefully security guard Someone drag her out. what It's really me It must be me Are you blind? sorry I'm sorry. It's you Do we know each other? She doesn't recognize me That seems to be five years ago. She doesn't know I recognized the wrong person You look a bit like my friend. So that's how it is Blue Rain Zhang Xin It's time for you to take a DNA test Are you okay? I'm fine, thank you. I'm anxious Transcendental I Please wait Results It takes about an hour OK, thanks I have an emergency Check mine first. Check mine first. Please wait Results It takes about an hour good This is your card There's fifty thousand dollars in it. Please keep it Thanks My mother is sick and I need money urgently I have to transfer this money first Miss Before the results come out Before the results come out Can't Leave I'm sorry. My family needs money urgently I go to the bank Take the money out first I promise you I will definitely Come back, okay? no no Can't let the blue rain Continue to stay here what to do Have to wait until the test results come out I can leave here Someone come Someone fell down the stairs. What's going on? Are you okay? I'm fine. Thank you. A skinny woman like her Can't even give birth to a child How could it be Where is Young Master Huo's biological mother? Let her go quickly. Save the eyesore I just press Mr. Huo's intention is to do things What are you doing? Is there any humanity? She's like this. Don't let her go. The same to you How did you make yourself like this? open I was just Pushed down But just now it was only you Stand by me What nonsense are you talking about? I'm kind enough to save you You want to frame me? What I said is the truth Go and inform Mr. Huo The young master's biological mother has been found DNA and Young Master Huo There is 99.99% overlap Mother-son relationship Where are the people? Over there You deserve it too Say it again Mr. Huo, save me This woman is crazy She tried to break my wrist Blue Rain How could it be you? How could it be you? Mr. Huo Mr. Huo Not this lady It's a lady named Zhang Xin Thank you for saving me May 20th, five years ago Peace Hotel that night It's you right I was drunk that day Wrong room Then I gave birth to a baby Grandpa Take the child away He is not his grandson. This necklace is yours. This necklace is yours. How does this relate to me? The lost necklace looks like This necklace It's my mother The relics left to me I can take a look This necklace? This is my necklace Why should I show you? Why should I show you? I'm sorry. I just think This necklace A bit like mine You don't want to say Five years ago The woman that night was you Duoduo's biological mother It's you too. I don't You think the appraisal report Is it a decoration? Sorry, I don't watch it. Why did we find Duoduo's biological mother? I'm not that happy Instead, see Lan Yu, this woman is crying I feel upset Luckily I'm smart Take this necklace Also check the The hair was changed Zhang Xin You are indeed The mother of my child At that time, the old man Separate you from your mother I'm sorry about this This is 10 million As these years Compensation for your grievances As long as the child is around It doesn't matter whether you give money or not You want to go Did you get my consent? Zhiting She just slandered me Push her down the stairs Don't say it's me Holding me tightly Look, your wrist is swollen. Look, your wrist is swollen. I don't Blue Rain I'm warning you one last time. Don't do it again and again It challenges my patience. Mr. Huo If there is nothing else I'll leave first. stop Since I did something wrong You have to pay the price What does this mean? Tooth for tooth This is the consequence you will bear Did you hear that? Don't do it later Slander others casually Mr. Huo Thank you for saving me You are the mother of my child Call me Zhiting from now on Good Zhiting Whoever bullies you again tell me I will let her Punished tenfold Zhiting, you are so good to me Two days later I will host a Grand recognition ceremony I will then In front of everyone Announce that you are Duoduo's mother besides If you want to marry me I will announce it together at that time Our wedding news I do Let's go home first I miss you so much good Hey uncle I have prepared 50,000 Rain Fifty thousand is not enough Doctors say Your mother needs surgery. At least 100,000 What 100,000 Manager, I beg you What kind of dirty and tiring work do I do? You can do anything As long as you give me a job That's it, okay? We don't need it here You still go Look somewhere else. Her salary is lower than others. Still willing to endure hardship Why don't you take her? People banned by Mr. Huo How dare I use it? I don't want to die anymore I beg you Even the job of a cleaner Also available Is it annoying? I said no It's you. It seems that you have a good character. No way No way Last time you slandered me Are you trying to scam me again this time? Mr. Huo I'm sorry. I was wrong. I beg you Please don't block me. I just want Find a job Give my mother surgery If you really don't like it Just kill me Please let my mother go. Pretty Aunt You stand up Pretty Aunt Mr. Huo Mr. Huo Mr. Huo Please give me a chance. Mr. Huo You deserve it. Let me go Duoduo Don't get angry with dad. The woman just now A bad guy Pretty aunt is not a bad person You are the bad guy I am your mother You and I look Not at all You are not my mom I want to find me Real Mommy I You are not my mother I'm going to find me Real Mom Duoduo Don't talk to your mother like that. Bad Daddy Since this bad woman Come to our house You have changed You kid Is it a lesson to be learned? Forget it, Zhiting Don't argue with children. Born from him I'll separate from him. He is a stranger to me It is also normal Put him down first. Duoduo Don't be mad at mom and dad. OK Mom is just worried You were captured by bad guys. Duoduo Mommy will take you to get some delicious food OK Zhiting You go and entertain the guests first. I'll take Duoduo for a walk He'll feel better. good Duoduo Listen to your mother Stop making trouble oh Let's go Duoduo Duoduo That Lan Yu is a bad guy She killed your aunt Remember? You lie Aunt Lan won't kill anyone. I don't If you don't believe it I can find the police. Give you proof I don't listen I don't listen I don't listen I don't listen I don't listen Little Bunny I'll talk to you nicely You don't listen, do you? I'll beat you up before you listen I'll talk to you nicely You don't listen, do you? I have to beat you up before you listen Bad Woman You're not my mom. Small wild species Your father is not here See how I deal with you Small wild species You thought you ran away Can you escape from my grasp? Zhang Xin Zhang Xin What's wrong I just Talk to Duoduo But he didn't listen And I got a cake all over me And I got a cake all over me Zhiting I'm so sorry It's not your fault This kid is getting too much. I'll go find him. I'm with you Need not You better pack your skirt. You better pack your skirt. Pretty Aunt I finally found you What happened? Who hit you? That bad woman Twisting my ears again Hit my ass again Dad doesn't help me Only help that bad woman I don't want to go home I want to be with you But Pretty Aunt Please Auntie can't take you home Can I just stay a little longer? C I remember Your name is Duoduo, right? yes Auntie gives you How about singing a song? good The dark sky hangs low Bright stars follow Insects fly Insects fly Who are you missing? Little\brother Don't cry That puppy I've driven it away Let me sing you a song The dark sky hangs low Bright stars follow Insects fly Insects fly Who are you missing? Thank you Rain Why did you come here? Go home soon Goodbye, little brother Bright stars follow Insects fly Insects fly Daddy Daddy Mr. Huo how Want to please a lot Then I'll let you go No, I didn't. It's Master Huo Ran here by myself Pretty aunt didn't lie It's obviously Aunt Zhang Xin Scratch my ears And spanked me I just ran out Duoduo What nonsense are you talking about? What nonsense are you talking about? When did I hit you? Just now Zhiting I'd better leave the Huo family. I think a lot Don't like me especially He wanted to drive me away They all started to lie Duoduo Xiao V learned to lie at a young age Learn to lie at a young age Who taught you? I didn't lie OK It turns out you taught me a lot. To separate Duoxiang and Zhiting's father-son relationship Over and over again Close to Duoduo Yes or no My Hand Relax I count three two one If you don't let go, I'll beat you. Don't hit him Be obedient Biting is wrong Let's relax, okay? This damn woman I took her identity. Still can't stop her and Huo Duoduo Blood and flesh no Must find an opportunity Completely eliminate this hidden danger Duoduo You are really Getting more and more naughty come over Bad Daddy Bad Daddy I don't want to go with you I don't want you either Be my daddy You only listen Bad woman's words Blue Rain You are nothing. Get more As if to follow the Huo family Bargaining chips I don't You should do the same To Duoduo To Duoduo Talk to him nicely He really listens. Follow us. Let's go Don't do this It will hurt a lot You are not allowed to bully Pretty Aunt Duoduo Duoduo, what's wrong with you? What's wrong? It must be because of this woman. How much does it become Like this Stop arguing. Duoduo has asthma attack If he has anything I won't forgive you Dad will take you to the hospital. I want a beautiful aunt to be with me I want a beautiful aunt to be with me Come with me Come with me Mr. Huo It's no big deal. Just overstimulated Too much emotional ups and downs A brief seizure but Duoduo was born in the mother's womb Poor development Physical fitness Worse than other kids You and your family will Try to accommodate more Avoid irritating him Zhiting It's all my fault. When I was pregnant with Duoduo Suffered too much Cairang Duoduo Congenital malformation Don't blame you It's my fault. If only I had found you sooner I won't let you suffer So many sins Zhiting Mr. Huo Now Duoduo is fine. Can I go first? After the show Just leave Duoduo behind. You woman He really has no conscience at all. roll Roll as far as you can no My mother is sick She needs money Treatment and surgery I have to go out to work Make money You think you can still Have you found a job? Blue Rain I said I would let you Live a life of hell I know Mr. Huo has a lot of connections. But people are alive Always have a glimmer of hope Farewell Pretty aunt, please don't go. What happened to Duoduo? What happened to my grandson? Grandson Why are you crying? Grandpa is here to see you. dad How come you are here how Can't I come? grandfather Dad is bad I won't let the pretty aunt go Grandpa won't let pretty aunt go Since I like you so much You stay and take care of him. I'll give you the starting money Ten thousand a day dad I do not agree she You shut up Duoduo was fine yesterday You took care of me for a day Just take care of it like this What right do you have to disagree? Uncle Huo This is not Zhiting's fault Duoduo is too willful. That's why My grandson of the Huo family when Use an outsider Come and point some fingers dad She is Duoduo's biological mother. I mentioned to you two days ago oh Duoduo's biological mother You are also worthy of being Duoduo's mother Five years Give birth to a child Lost it and didn't care Come back now Talk a lot I see You only see men and myself There is no such son. Uncle Huo I had my reasons at first. Need a rest I don't want to hear your excuses. Get out of here dad You come out with me Otherwise I want Use family law Dad, you have a heart disease. You calm down Zhang Xin and I Going out first Walk Duoduo Grandpa chased the bad guys away Stay now Beautiful auntie accompanies you OK grandfather I want a beautiful aunt Accompany me OK I don't care what you did before Quit the job now. Focus on taking care of my Duoduo Ten thousand days is not enough 20,000 No Thirty thousand Not so much Ten thousand is enough You are not greedy No wonder so many like it Are you satisfied now? Duoduo Pretty Aunt Please accompany me more in the future OK mom Wait for me I will soon be able to Raise enough medical expenses Saved you Uncle Huo, don't you know? Blue Rain is killing Zhiwan's murderer I actually want to Leave it to her to take care of or I'll tell him the truth Dad has heart disease I've been hiding it from him. Don't tell me Zhiting What to do then If Duoduo really What happened The consequences are simply unimaginable I am here She won't do anything. What if? Duoduo and I just met If something really happened to him I don't want to live anymore Don't worry I will arrange everything dad It was my fault before. I only found a lot Zhang Xin not found Now they are mother and son Finally reunited I want to compensate her. I want to marry her Duoduo is five years old Not five months As a mother Unless the child dies Otherwise how could it be possible Ignore him for five years. Let me see You just don't care Want to marry into the Huo family Unless I die Dead old man Then you go die Zhiting Uncle Huo is right. I don't deserve it. Do more mother Not even worthy of being your wife no I can't let you suffer anymore. dad What I decided Will not change You kid My heart Don't get excited Don't get excited Zhang Xin You look at a lot I took my dad to see a doctor. good Don't worry I will take good care of you. dad Hello sister I think I need your help with something. Lan Yu and her son Too much of an eyesore I want them to disappear Both mother and son are inside Kidnap him Extorting money from the Huo family Remember not to leave anyone alive Don't worry Blue Rain I will make her thoroughly Disappear from this world My face Blue Rain I will kill you sooner or later You are to the beautiful aunt What was done Little Bunny court death Hello Zhiting is not well Duoduo was kidnapped by Lan Yu She left a Thirty million ransom note Come quickly Zhang Qian Why is it you? What do you want to do? Of course I'll take revenge on you. Do you see the scar on my face? You disfigured me. You disfigured me. I said You must pay the price The Bad Guys Don't hurt the pretty aunt. You ruined my face I'm going to destroy yours too. don't want Please My father has a lot of money I called him He will give you money. Don't hurt the pretty aunt. Don't hurt the pretty aunt. little things You're smart. Zhang Qian Don't mess around. You let him go Huo Zhiting Will definitely kill you Do you think I'm stupid? His father is President of Huo Group Don't want 30 million. I'm sorry for all the hard work. Kidnap him? You know the Huo family has great connections. You know the Huo family has great connections. Huo Zhiting loves this son the most You kidnapped his son. You kidnapped his son. Aren't you afraid that he will retaliate against you later? Who said I kidnapped Huo Duoduo? What does it mean? Blue Rain Blue Rain You are a smart person I want Huo Duoduo Get out of here alive Just say it's you He kidnapped Now immediately Call Huo Zhiting Let him send the money. Don't think of charging me with a crime. Pressure on me Don't want to, right? I might as well kill him now. Ah The Bad Guys My dad must I won't let you go Are you crazy? He is still a child I'm just a madman Blue Rain If you don't top The charge of kidnapping I'll kill him now. I cut his neck first. I cut his neck first. Cut his finger again Then one by one Send it to Huo Zhiting Such a young child You must be afraid of pain. good I promise I promise That's pretty good. Now As I wrote Call Huo Zhiting Speak word by word Speak word by word If you dare to play any tricks You two No one wants to leave Hello Blue Rain Did you kidnap Duoduo? It's me Is your heart black? I trust you so much You're using him like this. Are you still worthy of being a human being? Are you still worthy of being a human being? brute Cut the crap I want 30 million Are you ready? Be ready Just follow the address I sent you. Send it here quickly Remember someone to come To let me see others You just wait for your son. Collect the bodies I will give you money But the premise is Ensure more safety If there is any accident in Duoxiang If there is any accident Blue Rain I will make you live a life worse than death Huo Zhiting said Keep his son safe You don't want to not get the money, do you? Duoduo is not in good health Stimulated Asthma attacks Go get him some medicine. quick Give him a What does this have to do with my wife? As long as Huo Zhiting comes Just keep him alive. Duoduo Duoduo, what's wrong with you? Brat Don't play tricks on me. Are you pretending to be me? See how I deal with you See how I deal with you Zhang Qian Duoduo has asthma attack You are quick Let me go I'm giving him first aid now. If I untie it for you What if you run away? You can put a knife to me. If I regret You can kill me anytime Hurry up Don't play any tricks Bitch How dare you play tricks on me court death court death Since you want to die Then I will fulfill you I'll kill you first. Kill that kid again. Little one court death Duoduo Run Run fast, Duoduo Bitch Daddy Duoduo Why is there so much blood? Daddy c Beautiful aunt is upstairs A lot of blood was shed Go save her. Zeyuan exist Bring Duoduo on board Want to die I will complete you Mr. Huo It was Lan Yu who kidnapped your son. You lie The kidnapper is you Black and White You'll know when you get to the police station. Zeyuan yes Mr. Huo It's Blue Rain Mr. Huo How's Duoduo? You are not qualified to ask too many questions. Come with me to the hospital You'd better tell me more No problem Otherwise I won't let you go Let's go Drive faster Come here quickly Duoduo This child lost too much blood. Need for blood transfusion Do the parents know his blood type? RH- A blood type This is a rare blood type. Our hospital's blood bank The stock may not be enough. doctor I have this blood type too. I have this blood type too. I can give him an emergency blood transfusion No You bleed so much. It's dangerous to get another blood transfusion. Draw her blood This is what you owe our Huo family. doctor Save the children first I can handle it Walk quick I'll do a simple test. good Just sitting here Where is Lan Yu's family? They are biological mother and son No blood transfusion She is worried about the child Going back first Isn't that his husband? No eyes sorry This is Lan Yu's blood test report. Don't let them see it. What are you doing This is the patient's privacy. Can't watch I am her family member This information Is it for Blue Rain? Yes But you really are Lan Yu and Huo Duoduo's family? To me From now on, our family Lanyu I have to trouble you Take good care of me This is our duty This information You must remember to give it to Lan Yu I went to the blood bank to get blood drawn good Blue Rain, you bitch I haven't been watching you for a while. it turns out Send my sister to jail I still want to Meet Huo Duoduo I will never let you live Let you affect my happiness Mr. Huo Zhang Qian has pleaded guilty She had been with Miss Lan We were in jail together The two had a feud in prison. So I took revenge on Miss Lan after I was released from prison. The young master was implicated knew Arrange someone to go in Don't let her Too comfortable Zhiting Why are you standing here? Zhiting Why are you standing here? fine Call up I heard something happened to Duoduo Come here quickly How is Duoduo now? It's okay now. Excessive blood loss Let's go in and take a look good Duoduo sorry It's your mother who didn't protect you. You were kidnapped by the evildoers. It's all your fault How many people have become like this? I didn't kidnap Duoduo The person who kidnapped Duoduo is You dare to quibble? You give Zhiting When making a ransom call I heard your voice. I really don't I want you to pay with your life stop let go let go Zhiting Why are you towards her? I already said this before Duoduo fell into a coma Kidnapped him It's another woman Not Blue Rain And the police It has been investigated clearly Zhang Qian and Lan Yu had a feud before That's why they kidnap in revenge. Zhiting Don't be fooled by this woman. The reason why she is like this Because I want to leave a way out for myself Acting in front of Duoduo You are questioning my judgment I don't Zhang Qian and Lan Yu After all, there is a festival. Duoduo has become like this now It's all because of her. The matter has been concluded I don't want to hear it anymore Victim Blaming Theory It's so late and you haven't rested yet Duoduo has not returned safely yet How can I sleep? I've brought it back. You can rest assured Rest early OK Huo Zhiting doesn't care about this. Then I will tell you the truth Tell the old man Hello Is that Uncle Huo? I have something I want to tell you What are you doing? What do you say I do? This woman hit Zhiwan to death Many people were kidnapped I'd kill her. Blue Rain has paid the price And she was the one who saved Duoduo This is what she should do This is what she should do If Duoduo has something wrong If Duoduo has something wrong I let her whole family be buried with me dad Get down on your knees now Kneel down Before Duoxiang wakes up Don't get up I really don't Don't kneel, right? I heard you have a mother. good I kneel Uncle Huo Don't get too excited Take care of your body. Take care of your body. Duoduo Zhang Xin You come out I have something to tell you oh good My grandson Zhiting What do you want from me? You told the old man, right? yes Zhiting I just don't want Let that bad woman Just stay with Duoduo Zhang Xin I'll tell you one last time Don't do anything behind my back. Otherwise, I won't keep you in the Huo family anymore. Did you hear that? I see Does it hurt? It hurts. Blue Rain Please remember this for me Stay away from the Huo family in the future Otherwise I'll make you live a life worse than death sorry It was really just an accident. Your light and unexpected words Can offset The pain of losing my daughter It can offset Duoduo being kidnapped It can offset the kidnapping of many people The harm caused? dad She has been kneeling all night. You feel bad You feel bad no If this continues, someone will die. She should die. Kneel straight Beauty Let you ruin my business everywhere Aunt Lan A lot of fear Don't be afraid Aunt Lan is here Auntie Lan will protect you Don't be afraid Don't touch my son. I am your mother I don't want you to be my mother. I want Auntie Lan When my mother Uncle Huo Look at this woman I don't know how much to give What kind of magic potion was given? You woman Get out of here! Aunt Lan Don't go Don't go Bad guy, go away Walk Away Be obedient She is the one who killed your aunt. She is the one who killed your aunt. I don't listen I don't listen Unfortunate fate dad Zhang Xin Call a doctor good Blue Rain You saved Duoduo's life. I'll let you go Don't let me see you again. Thank you Mr. Huo Sorry Duoduo Auntie wants to accompany you too But my aunt's mother I need my aunt to make money for medical treatment Duoduo You stay in the ward. Dad has gone to the hospital to check out. Mom will be back soon. OK oh Such a critical moment What are you calling me about? You try to get me out. The Huo family arranged someone in the prison I was beaten every day I can't bear it anymore I see I'm trying to figure it out Duoduo Duoduo Duoduo, where have you been? Duoduo Hello Zhiting Not good I can't find Duoduo again mom Rain It's not about waiting for the rain to stop. Going grocery shopping again? It's raining Your wound will become inflamed. It's ok, mom Am I not holding an umbrella? And mom Rainy Day Cheap groceries You work too hard I'm the one who dragged you down What did mom say? Huo Zhiting I don't plan to pursue it anymore. We will later Life will definitely get better. mom I bought celery pork We're having dumplings tonight. I seem to hear Someone is knocking on the door It's raining so hard Who will come to our house? Could it be the neighbor next door? It sounds like ours. You go and have a look good mom Duoduo How did you get here? I miss Aunt Lan. I miss Aunt Lan. Aunt Lan, I'm so cold Come in Aunt Lan's house is so small Smaller than my bathroom. but Auntie Blue is everywhere Fragrant and warm taste I like it very much The Young Master of the Huo Family You come to our house Have you said hello to your parents? I told my dad Rain Our place is small The Young Master of the Huo Family Not suitable to stay in our house You should contact the Huo family as soon as possible. Send him back. Aunt Lan Don't send me away I finally found yours mom It's raining so hard outside Duoduo is still not feeling well I gave him a hot bath. I gave him a hot bath. Let him warm up Wait until the rain stops I'll send him off again, okay? You Walk Duoduo Take a shower Come take it off OK, I know. This birthmark Looks like my child. Aunt Lan What are you looking at My aunt once had a child. If he grows up safely Probably the same age as you. Auntie Lan Where is your child? Go to heaven Aunt Lan Then I will be your child, okay? I like you so much I want you to be my mother no You have a daddy and a mommy Don't be unhappy. Auntie will give it to you later Is it good to eat dumplings? Good Sorry, Zhiting I'm just answering a phone call Duoduo disappeared Let's call the police Are you sure Just answering a phone call I am sure You go back first I know where Duoduo went. The little cat becomes a big cat Duoduo Daddy go home don't want I want to spend a day with the beautiful aunt Running away from home I didn't settle accounts with you. go home Aunt Lan, I'm scared We are not afraid of Duoduo Just thunder We are safe at home. I'm in Aunt Lan's arms I'm not afraid anymore You stinky boy Mr. Huo Duoduo is afraid of thunder This child is very fragile. Can you be cautious? His mood Why don't we wait until the rain stops before leaving? Daddy, please Just this time yeah Long Live Daddy yeah Duoduo Sit here with your dad. I'm going to make dumplings If I could It would be nice to live in Aunt Lan's house. This place is so good. Better than our Huo family I like Where Aunt Lan is Rain Huo Zhiting's hostility towards you It seems not as big as before. Should we Tell him the truth Forget it, mom It's all over He doesn't believe Then go to the police station Reopening the case I don't believe it No results found It really doesn't work Forget it, mom This matter has passed This matter has passed The car accident I have a responsibility And Huo Zhiting He doesn't plan to pursue it anymore. so Let's be quiet Live your life Daddy You found my mother. Poor vision Who can't you see? I'm attracted to Zhang Xin I'm attracted to Zhang Xin That bad guy If you had I'm looking at a beautiful aunt I must be very happy Don't say that. She is your mother alright The dumplings are ready Try it Slower Mr. Huo You should eat some too. I'm not hungry Aunt Lan If Daddy doesn't eat, I will. You are alone Can you eat so much? Of course I can eat it Aunt Lan ate with me I can eat it. Then eat it How did I give birth? Such a son of a lackey Auntie will give you So good and delicious So delicious. Delicious. Mr. Huo The rain has stopped Please take Duoduo back with you. good Come Good good good I'll help you with the child Send it to the car. Sorry for the trouble. Let's go Let's go Blue Rain If you hadn't killed my sister perhaps We can be real friends Mr. Huo KEEP THE goodbye Zhang Yuzheng, why are you here? I can't be here Who is here? Huo Zhiting Letting go You just looked at Huo Zhiting Laughing so wildly Seeing me so bitter and resentful Don't you just feel He is richer than me. Do you want to marry into the Huo family? But I tell you Between the two of you A life apart You two will never have a chance I don't need your reminder. I never thought about it Too much contact with Huo Zhiting You are dirty I am dirty I saw you smile at him I'm so jealous Rain Stay away from Huo Zhiting from now on Be my lover Don't even think about it If you dare to mess around again I will tell Huo Zhiting the truth Be my lover Don't even think about it what You want to do this again I will tell you the truth Tell Huo Zhiting You didn't get it easy. General Manager of Huo Group? You married Huo Zhiting's cousin You don't want to ruin this, do you? You thought he would believe you. Let me go Rain Rain, I love you I know I asked you to go to jail for me. I'm sorry But apart from the name I can't give you Other I can make up for you anything This is what you said about loving me Who allowed you to bully my Yu'er? Aunt Lan Rain I'll come see you another day roll Rain Are you okay? Mom, I'm fine. You are not feeling well, don't get angry Zhang Yuzheng, this bastard It's too bullying. Rain Let's call the police Forget it, mom. Now he is General Manager of Huo Group The Powerful We can't afford to offend no I can't let that bastard Bullying my Yu'er I must tell the truth I must tell the truth Tell Huo Zhiting I'm going to have dinner with your mother later. Your aunt and uncle will go. Remember to listen oh If I'm good, Is that possible? I went to see the beautiful aunt. no Then I won't go with you. Eat together I want to go home Don't even think about it You have to go today Otherwise I'll spank you I'm going to tell grandpa stop gentlemen Someone who claims to be Lan Yu's mother's people want to see you Said it was something important To tell you not see I'll send her away now. Wait a moment Let her wait in the living room. Hello, Mr. Huo This old thing What are you doing at the Huo family? Zhilin Um I suddenly remembered There's still some stuff to deal with. You go see Mr. Huo first. OK Honey Then hurry up Mr. Huo will be here soon. Thanks Aunt Lan What are you doing here? I still have the correspondence between me and Yu'er That's right It was you who killed Huo Zhiwan Just handwriting identification The truth is out So you come to Huo's I'm looking for Huo Zhiting. Tell the truth That's right I just want to tell the truth Zhang Yuzheng Yu'er is taking the blame for you Just went to prison She graduated from a prestigious university. A bright future But now everything is ruined You beast Do you have any humanity? I'm going to report you Give me back my innocence and justice Aunt Lan Don't be impulsive I really like Yu'er Want to be with her But now I Have to rely on Zhang Zhilin You wait until I climb up Higher position I kicked her out Marrying Yu'er with great fanfare wishful thinking Our Rain I will never be a third party You are determined. Gonna tell on me. That's right Wait for Huo Zhiting to come I'll put these things Show him all You forced me to do this. You let go Letting go Letting go You never let go I'm going to call someone. You old fool If you don't drink alcohol, you will be punished by drinking alcohol If you don't accept a toast, you will be punished Aunt Lan Go home early I'll go to see Yu'er another day. Aunt Lan Dead How did he die? Mom, please answer the phone. Rain Mom decided to find Huo Zhiting tells the truth Mommy can't look at you Bullied by Zhang Yuzheng Bullied by Zhang Yuzheng Someone jumped off the building mom Wake up, mom. mom Hello 120? Come and save my mother Come and save my mother address Give me No. 555 Wutong Road Someone committed suicide by jumping off a building Why would my mother commit suicide? impossible Mom, don't scare me. Wake up, please Mom, get up and look at me. But the current situation It seems so No no My mother this morning Come and tell me She's coming to see you. Tell the truth of that year. Tell the truth of that year. What is the truth Back then it was Zhang Yuzheng Why are you harassing Mr. Huo again? Walk Aunt Lan What happened to Aunt Lan? Let me go U Masashi Don't pay attention to this ungrateful person You're kind enough to help her She didn't appreciate it at all No tutoring Her mother deserved to die. What did you say Say it again What did you say Say it again I said your mother died well. A wonderful death If I had you The murderer's daughter I should have jumped off the building and died a long time ago. Shut up I don't allow You said that about my mom I said what happened I said what happened What can you do to me? I move my fingers It will keep you in this city There's no way to survive There's no way to survive Beauty Yuzheng, please pull her away! Beating women That's not what a man should do. Mr. Huo I'm too anxious cousin Look She bit my hand like this You don't help me vent my anger You are a bad mouth Scolding someone's mother You deserve it cousin How can you maintain This murderer You forgot She was the one who killed Zhiwan Shut up I don't need you to remind me Who killed Zhiwan? Hope my mom is okay. doctor How is my mom? Sorry Your mother is gone. impossible impossible My mother must be saved. My mother must be saved. You must have made a mistake. My mother can't be dead. It must be a mistake. How could my mother die? You must have made a mistake. Blue Rain The dead cannot be resurrected You accept the reality. mom Huo Zhiting Huo Zhiting Your buttons Why is it in my mother's hands? I don't know Not sure Did you kill my mother? Yes or no Saying you want to let me go But you don't I didn't want to let go of me Kill my mother to avenge your sister. Right? Huo Zhiting You want to take someone to pay for your sister's life? You took my life. Why did you kill my mother? She is so innocent Blue Rain Calm down. I didn't kill your mother. No That button Why is it in my mother's hands? My mother said this early this morning I'm coming to see you Now lying here Tell me why Blue Rain I'll tell you one last time I didn't kill your mother. I am Huo Zhiting Never do these Shameful deeds As for the buttons I really don't know It should be investigated by the police The police can investigate Are you clear about everything? You, Huozhong, have all the power in the world. I want to cover up your crime. Isn't that a matter of minutes? asshole Whatever you think mom I am innocent Blue Rain Blue Rain Blue Rain Blue Rain boss The doctor has arrived Show her now. Miss Lan is Too emotional Causes temporary fainting take a break There shouldn't be any problem. Thank you, sir. Zhiting Duoduo is clamoring to come over Daddy, what happened to Aunt Lan? Did you make her faint? You bad guy I never listen to her explanation. Duoduo Stop it. I don't listen You go out Aunt Lan doesn't want to see you Aunt Lan doesn't want to see you Zhiting Why do you care so much about Lan Yu? If she wants to die, let her do it. Let's go eat I have other things to do. Go by yourself Aunt Lan, what's wrong with you? Aunt Lan, what's wrong with you? Wake up! It's all your fault Blue Rain Why don't you die? Zhang Yuzheng I am Zhang Xin What do you want from me? I just looked at you Dragging Blue Rain's Mother Go up to the top floor I think we can Chat alone Where to meet I'll send you the address later good I'm leaving right away What conditions do you want? As long as I can satisfy you Although open Don't be nervous, Mr. Zhang I ordered a cup of coffee You might as well sit down Let's talk slowly I didn't intend to expose you. But there is one thing I want to ask Mr. Zhang for a favor you say I want the blue rain to disappear It is impossible to appear in the Huo family forever how Unwilling Could it be that Mr. Zhang likes Blue Rain? Could it be that Mr. Zhang likes Blue Rain? What nonsense are you talking about? The person I love is Zhilin The person I love is Zhilin Mr. Zhang We are Grasshopper tied to a rope You don't have to lie to me The way Mr. Zhang looked at Lan Yu Full of love Can't fool me What do you want? I want the blue rain to disappear Threats are also good It doesn't matter if you kill him As long as she can stay forever Not appearing at the Huo family Threatening my position I can accept it Mr. Zhang Can make Blue Rain's mother disappear I believe this For Mr. Zhang It shouldn't be difficult. good I'll find a way to do it as soon as possible. But before that But before that You must keep it confidential Otherwise, I have a way. Make you disappear completely make a deal The child is gone Mom is gone too. My life is ruined. What's the point of living? Better to die In another world Get back together with them Isn't this Blue Rain? How did it become like this? Losing a child? It's a huge blow You let go She's not like that. She is taking the blame for someone else. Who allowed you to bully my Yu'er? Auntie Lan Are you worthy of my daughter? You promised to marry her. Don't stop me Let me die Blue Rain Letting go Don't you know who I am? Take a good look at me You are giving me The doctor who delivered me Yes, it's me. How did you become like this? It's all my greed. This is how it ended Sorry Blue Rain In fact, at the beginning In fact, at the beginning Your baby is not dead. Someone is spending money Bought your child. My child is not dead. So where is he? I don't know either The other party gave me a full 500,000 I couldn't stand the temptation I'm really sorry child Seeing you today may be God's will God, let me tell you the truth Atone for your sins You really hurt me. sorry I don't ask for your forgiveness Just want to make up My own mistakes Blue Rain If you want Find your child According to his birthmark According to his birthmark Go find The birthmark is plum blossom shaped Right? yes Duoduo Duoduo must be my child Hello Aunt I am Duoduo Daddy, don't let me disturb you. But I miss my aunt. So secretly Ran out to find you good I'll pick you up right now OK God You've fooled me so many times. Please Help me once. Nurse, where is this patient? I just saw her going that way. Maybe to handle Discharge procedures completed? Thanks Duoduo Pretty Aunt I brought money and clothes. Let's elope. I want to be with you forever Duoduo Aunt Lan Why are you crying? Are you the same as Duoduo? I miss my mom. Auntie misses her mother very much I want my own children more Auntie will take you to get tested. Wait for the test results to come out Auntie will take you to eat delicious food OK good Wait two hours The result is out good Thanks Ms. Blue DNA test results are out You and Huo Duoduo Blue Rain What are you doing Get out of here Letting go You must never let go I called the police. This gentleman Please let go of Ms. Lan otherwise I called the hospital security department. We are a couple Take care of our family affairs Too idle Letting go Let me go Little Bunny Duoduo Are you okay? Is there anything? fine Are you injured? This gentleman Huo Duoduo and Ms. Lan Confirmed to be biological mother and child I seriously doubt you now I seriously doubt you now They are harassing their mother and son. They are harassing their mother and son. Security department? There's violence here. Please come over here Nurse What you just said is Is it true? The identification result is 100% true Ms. Blue Huo Duoduo is indeed Your biological son Don't you even His own son Don't you know? Thank you nurse I really looked for him for a long time Thank you I really looked for him for a long time Thank you You are welcome Should Aunt Lan Are you really my mother? Duoduo Yes I am your mother This birthmark on my arm Mom remembers But after mom gave birth to you I fainted. The doctor took you away. Then say Say you're dead So mom didn't Recognize you at the first time sorry Mom found you too late sorry Mommy, it's okay. Duoduo and mother later Duoduo and mother later Never separate again Ms. Blue Do you still want the identification result? want Thanks It doesn't matter Go and your family Go and your family Share this good news mom You see me in heaven Have you recognized Duoduo? You must be pleased. It's just God's will playing tricks on me But Huo Zhiting is Kill your murderer Don't worry I will find out the truth I won't let you die in vain. Duoduo Call your dad Let him come to the hospital Just say you're not feeling well Um Where are you I'm in the company What's wrong, son? Dad, I just had a stomachache. I went to the hospital to see a doctor. The doctor uncle said Ask me to contact the adults at home Can you come over? You sneaked out again alone Why don't you let me have a stomachache? The butler will take you there. oops My stomach hurts again I won't tell you anymore Come here quickly Mommy Am I doing well? Duoduo did a great job Wait till dad comes. Know the truth Our family of three Can it be Living together Sorry Duoduo We forever Can't be together Because your dad Probably killed your grandmother. And I Indirectly killed Your aunt's murderer Duoduo how's it going What the doctor said I'm fine now Brat I will never dare to sneak out again. See how I deal with you He didn't sneak out. I brought him out. Blue Rain I'm talking to your mother I feel sorry But really follow me No relationship How do you explain that button? I I can't explain it But I've asked the police to investigate. besides I hope you Don't take the grudges of adults Sprinkle on children Don't worry No matter what the reason I won't kill you. This report You take a look first. Blue Rain This joke Not funny at all This is not a joke Five years ago I was drunk at the Peace Hotel After a night with a strange man I got pregnant Later I went to prison Give birth to a son When I woke up I was told The child died But today I met The doctor who delivered me She told me the baby wasn't dead. There was someone at that time Bought the child at a high price besides This birthmark on Duoduo's body I remember when I was giving birth So I first I thought of Duoduo could be my child So I made this report How is this possible? Zhang Xin's test report Clearly displayed Duoduo and I are biological mother and son besides She recognized that night The necklace left behind Do you mean this necklace? This necklace is my mother's. Birthday gift for me I have always worn But after that night five years ago I can't find it. And Zhang Xin's Paternity test report We were Testing done together She even pulled my hair out If you don't believe it You can call Zhang Xin over. The three of us face each other Do a new test Look Who She is Duoduo's real mother. Daddy Auntie Lan is really my mom We just did DNA testing This matter To me To the Huo Family Both are very important I need to call Zhang Xin over. 100% sure no problem Zhang Xin Come to the hospital Blue Rain If what you say is true I will compensate you I don't need your compensation I just hope Wait until the truth comes out Can you promise me one thing? What's up I'll tell you then. good Zhang Xin will come over later. You bring your children Go to the next room first Zhang Xin If you dare to lie to me I will never let you go Zhiting What happened Why did you suddenly call me to the hospital? I want a younger sister. The old man urged us to get married soon I'll give you a physical examination. If it's ok We will get the certificate as soon as possible I am in good health Isn't it just The best proof? Why do you still need a marriage checkup? What the old man asked must be done Otherwise you can't get married All right Please put your arms up. What else needs to be checked? Just wait outside. Zhang Xin This is your night Fallen in my room Do you still know each other? This is your night This is your night Fallen in my room Do you still know each other? Of course I know This is a gift from my mother. This is a gift from my mother. now It's ours too. A token of love Are you sure It's yours yes Zhiting What's wrong Look carefully Is it yours? Is there anything special about this necklace? Why did you suddenly lose your temper? Did you discover it? The truth five years ago no I can't admit it Zhiting What happened to you? Please make your words clear Don't scare me Didn't you tell me before This necklace is your mother's. A gift for you Is it extremely precious to you? Why did I change it? Similar necklaces You can't recognize it I just didn't look carefully Zhiting You are a necklace Do you doubt me? Don't forget I am Duoduo's mother I'm with Duoduo There is a paternity test report How dare you mention this to me? If you don't like me Don't want to marry me You can say it directly I can leave You don't have to This tortures me Master Huo Paternity test results Already out Ms. Zhang and Huo Duoduo No blood relationship Did you hear clearly? You are not Duoduo's mother The person who was there five years ago It's not you either. Zhang Xin You lied to me for so long Have you lived enough? Have you lived enough? I Zhiting Yes or no Who said what to you? Is it the woman named Lan Yu? What did I tell you? The Woman A liar at all. Her words Not credible at all I haven't mentioned Blue Rain yet. You pull it on her. Did you already know Five years ago That night was her. I don't It was Blue Rain who showed it privately. She wants to marry into the Ting family Becoming Mrs. Huo Now it comes to I still want to go to Lan Yu Throwing dirty water Yeah Zhang Xin Duoduo and I have already Did a paternity test Your report It's just evidence. No matter how much you say There is no meaning either You are a murderer. Your words are not credible at all Zhiting You believe me It's this woman Bribed the doctor I found the doctor. No contact with Lan Yu Zhang Xin I'll give you two choices. Tell the truth of that year Kneel down and apologize Keep lying No place for burial I only give you Three seconds I said I said Five years ago It's definitely not me I was also in the hotel at that time That morning Seeing the blue rain Come out of your room I temporarily Greedy So it was created Pretend to be her idea Please Please forgive me If you just Sudden words The medicine in my glass What's going on? besides Swapping Blue Rain Children How did you do it? I I have already given You got one chance. Zhang Xin You prepare for the rest of your life Spend time in jail Zhiting Please Please Don't send me to jail. I know I'm wrong Zeyuan Take her to the police station Find out all the bad things she did. don't want Zhiting Zhiting Blue Rain sorry I didn't notice it before Zhang Xin's Impersonation what do you want to do As long as I can do it I can satisfy you Huo Zhiting You killed my mother. I should kill you To avenge her Because you are Duoduo's father I can't let him be so young. No father so I want you to go to my mother's grave Kowtow to her One thousand times Apologize to her I didn't kill Aunt Lan. As for who did it The police will investigate it themselves. I will go to Aunt Lan's grave Kneel down and admit your mistakes I don't want to hear your excuses. The day you went to my mother's grave I want to see it with my own eyes in addition I want to pick up Duoduo Go home for three days Three days later I'll give him back to you. Never meet him again. I need my mother Huo Zhiting You don't want me Marry you Between us But there are two lives between us. How much do you want to be a A child without a mother? As for Grandpa I will tell him Huo Zhiting Are you crazy? My Conscience Don't allow me to do this besides I will never marry into the Huo family For Duoduo, isn't it okay? no For Duoduo, isn't it okay? no Duoduo We are home OK Daddy Come with us Daddy has something to do Only Mom and Duoxiang came home All right Mr. Huo We're leaving first. Mom, don't you want to eat? Mom is not hungry Eat more first Mom doesn't eat I don't eat either good Then mom will eat with Duoduo Good Eat it Duoduo This is what mom can accompany you The last few days If your dad I didn't kill my mother. I will also tell him The truth behind the car accident five years ago But It's no use saying this now I can't stand between two lives. Entering the Huo Family Be you A legitimate mother Mother Are you unhappy? I always feel Your eyes are going to cry No Mother I just got burned by the dumplings. Let me help you blow When you return to the Huo family Good life Mom will always Accompany you in the dark Until you grow up Duoduo Mom, go see who it is. Um Why is it you? Let me go Help! Daddy Zhilin's cousin's husband My mother fainted. He's going to take her away. Daddy, please save her. Little Bunny You are here too Duoduo You delay a little Daddy is coming soon OK recently President of Huo Group Huo Zhiting announced With his fiancee Zhang Xin Breaking off an engagement and announced Zhang Xin is a fraudster Child abductor Handed over to the police station Rain, you woke up What are you doing? Kidnapping is illegal Let me go Why should I let you go? Zhang Yuzheng What on earth do you want to do? What do you want to do? Let me go Zhang Xin was sent to prison You also know Huo Duoduo is yours My biological son As long as you tell the truth Tell Huo Zhiting You can marry into the Huo family. You told him The truth from five years ago Want to destroy me Right? I don't I just told Huo Zhiting Huo Duoduo is my son I don't You think I will believe Your nonsense You women Why are you all so mean? Two Stick it on Huo Zhiting Not because Is he richer than me? What are you going crazy for? I'm crazy If you didn't tell him Why did the police come to me? How do I know? Whether you said it or not Now Huo Zhiting Already found me He will know the truth sooner or later Then I'll strike first. Kidnapped you and his son Rain Wait for me to extort some money We took this money Fly away OK Get lost Zhang Yuzheng I tell you Even if I die I won't go with you. roll Rain See this pill? What are you doing? Just eat it You will forget the past All the painful memories ah Eat it Zhang Yuzheng Don't you just want money? I brought the money Duoduo Duoduo Come up on your own Don't let me find other people. Otherwise you have to Can't see your My baby boy Duoduo Zhang Yuzheng Please let me go. Think about it carefully Don't go against your conscience Do these things What you want I'll give you all There is a billion in this card The password is six Take the money and release the person It's so easy to let him go Do you think I'm stupid? So what do you want? I want you to kneel down You ruined everything for me. You've done it to yourself If you don't hurt people How did it get to this point? That's right Five years ago I was the one who killed your sister. It was me who made Yu'er To take the blame for me. But I was forced You are a child of destiny Born with Everything that makes people envious And me How can you understand Like me From the bottom People who climb up step by step The hardships and difficulties During the five years that Yu'er was in prison I day and night Tortured I originally wanted Gaining a foothold Married her But you ruined all of this. What did you say oh That's right Rain I also killed Aunt Lan But I didn't want to kill her. She's too fragile. Just a pinch and it'll kill you. You killed my mom The police performed an autopsy In Aunt Lan's fingernails Residual human tissue It's Zhang Yuzheng And that button Zhang Xin stole it, right? You are colluding with Zhang Xin Right? Zhang Yuzheng Are you still human? I'm for you Ruined my own life What did my mom do wrong? You're going to kill her She wants to tell the truth Tell Huo Zhiting She's gonna destroy me. She forced me to do it. No one forces you. You did it all yourself. Shut up Don't you want to save your son? Don't you want to save your son? Kneel down and apologize Daddy Zhang Yuzheng You take the money and let him go now I can not call the police But if you move more You should know what will happen. Stop talking nonsense Kneel or not If he doesn't kneel, I'll kill him. I kneel kneel stop You let go ah ah Rain Dare to touch my son Daddy Mommy's bleeding a lot. Please save her. Blue Rain Don't be afraid of the blue rain I'll take you to the hospital Go save Duoduo first quick Mommy Are you okay? Huo Zhiting You now know the truth I owe you too much I also owe a lot Not one Responsibilities of being a mother I beg you Promise me one last thing Mother Don't stop me from saving my hometown Zhang Yuzheng The police are here You have no way to escape Put a lot I'll give you a way out I don't care about your life I am Zhang Yu is going to do A superior person Now it's all gone Just pulling The Huo family's young master will die together I'm not alone on the road to the underworld Mommy and Daddy Save me Small wild species What is it called? Zhang Yuzheng You hold me at knifepoint If Huo Zhiting regrets You can kill me anytime. Look Take this money I took that pill Let's fly away restart Isn't this better than death? You want to cheat me You just want me to die now Don't I know yet? But I want Duoduo to live. good Blue Rain Go fast I'll give you three times the money. As long as you let her go I'll let you go I don't want your money Mom, don't go with him. Duoduo I'm sorry Mother I can't always be with you But you have to remember Mom loves you very much Love you very much Blue Rain Mr. Huo Ms. Lan fell down the stairs Damage to the brain nerves We rescued her. But he fell into a coma. When can I wake up? We can't be sure knew Subsequent treatment Please use The best medical resources Mr. Huo, don't worry. Daddy Will mom wake up? Yes As long as we have patience Mom will wake up. Then I will come to accompany mommy every day Blue Rain You must wake up. I owe you too much I'll spend the rest of my life making up for it. besides I love you This is what I can't tell you secret