INTRO about the Mongols, but one thing that can't be everyone in Eurasia. From the Western and Eastern and Japanese in the east and Vietnamese, Burmans, against them. In this video we will talk about how tried to defend against the Mongol attacks, about This video is made available for free thanks to content through our program of exclusive who get two documentaries per week not and watch the series on the Albigensian Italian Reunification Wars, History of Prussia, Reconquista, Pacific War, Persian Wars, and War made for, and with generous donations from, our want to both see more and support the cause of patron. Join their ranks via the link in the schedule, get early access to all videos, voting be able to watch more than 100 exclusive #1 Western Europeans withdrew in 1242, Europe was in a state of panic. Duchies had been ravaged and Mongol forces had Empire and Austria. Early in 1242 Mongol armies perhaps even approaching Constantinople, During Batu's leisurely withdrawal from Hungary, the first Passover. Then, he sent more troops there. Ultimately he did not return to Mongolia, did not disappear into the distant mists, but The situation in Europe was tense. Pope Gregory IX confrontation with the Holy Roman Emperor, and passed away. It took two years for a new Pope, Empire, an attempt at an anti-Mongol Crusade in into civil war in Germany by that autumn. In 1242, England. Despite optimistic suggestions there would be no united front among the European Invasion. For those on the frontline of a King of Hungary, this was unwelcome news. offered no real support during the midst of the would be forthcoming for further preparation. fall of 1242, he quickly got to work. He had back to finish the job, and threatening letters of the rest of his reign. Bela had to prepare actions was to bring the Cumans back to his realm. in Hungary before the murder of their leader Bela coaxed them back with promises of land and to a Cuman Princess who was then baptised. Hungarian Plain depopulated by the Mongols. be a first line of defense should the Mongols Cuman horse archers remained one of the Much of the kingdom's population had been near the Austrian border, or north into what is ordered, and encouraged the nobility, to build on more rugged, hard-to-access locations. These had survived the first Mongol assault, such as at trends in European castle construction. With the 1246, Bela then went to war, unsuccessfully, with a failed effort to push his kingdom even more establish a network of marriage alliances with Halychyna-Volhynia, and with Rus' princes who Bela offered encouragement for to declare his independence from the Mongols as between Hungary and the Mongol Empire. continued to contact the Pope and the Holy Roman could spare, presenting himself as the front-line Bela had a relatively supportive ally, who to deal with the threats to the Christian peoples: the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick. But Innocent's continued exultations for support. Pope Alexander told Bela to shove it, critiquing his reliance on invasions were punishments for the sin of the assistance ever actually came to the Hungarians. in a few minutes, but we can compare his efforts The most deliberate European response to the Pope Innocent IV invited hundreds of prelates from Church. Among other important pontifical matters, and excommunicating Emperor Frederick, the Church invasion first-hand in Eastern Europe. It was and to do so several embassies were organized. Franciscans and Dominicans. The most well-known or John de Plano Carpini as his name is more mission in 1245, arriving in the Mongol imperial Great Khan Guyuk in 1246, before returning and King come to Mongolia to submit. It was an During his travels Carpini took extensive notes, people as possible, especially from European provided Carpini first-hand details of Mongol a lengthy manual on how to battle the Mongols. and customs of the Mongols; not in exaggerated an observer who felt lives depended on it. well with other European, Chinese and Persian Mongols --whom he calls Tatars throughout-- was no was recognizing the difference between the for Carpini believed that should these people be Indeed, unity in the face of the Mongols was one defense. Carpini was quite aware of the disunity Mongol attack, and Guyuk Khaan himself told conquest. Carpini's work stressed the need at diplomatic, strategic levels -- that is, not to and at operational and tactical levels -- tight break formation to pursue fleeing Mongols, and the No single power or army, Carpini stressed, suggestions were to emulate the Mongolian army. while the army itself should be organized ease command. The army had to advance or retreat small parties that could be picked off piecemeal. in the field. He actively discouraged only allowed the Mongols to overrun the across. A castle was worth nothing if the kingdom captive. While he offers advice on how to design last line of defense rather than a primary means design mirrored ongoing efforts in Hungary at the to target by siege machines, well supplied, Carpini urges the defenders not to base their "Moreover, in regard to this point, it should be themselves into their cities and fortresses for then they say they have got their little men to look after them as I have told above." before their armies split to attack several following: "Whoever wishes to fight against good strong bows, crossbows, of which [the a serviceable axe of strong iron or a battle-axe both bows and cross-bows ought to be tempered they are hot, to make them hard enough to pierce and lances with a hook to drag the Tartars from knives, and cuirasses of a double thickness, a helmet and armour and other things to weapons and arrows. If there are any men they ought to do as the Tartars and go behind the crossbows. There ought to be no stinting of money and bodies and liberty and other possessions." read out and copied as he travelled, ensuring the Ystoria Mongalorum, became the most popular century. Later writers plagiarised and adapted a fourteenth century author who copied The question remains though; did Carpini's work the Mongols? It is difficult to answer in the popularized, there's little evidence to connect against later Mongol attacks. Aside from the something which originated independently operating as one body to prevent the Mongols from After the Prince of Halychyna-Volhynia Daniil and Pope to assert his independence against Papal-approved crown, and this independence was Boroldai Noyan was immensely destructive, more the Polish chronicler Jan Dlugosz. Here suggestions being adhered to; the Poles received in which the Mongols overran quickly the laden with booty and captives, having been given the Jochid prince Nogai's troops plundered troops, commanded by a Byzantine ally, meet a during a failed crossing over the River Drim. the Hungarian Kingdom in 1285. Here the defensive and once more no influence of Carpini's who Bela had so carefully recalled to the in response to Christianization efforts put down in 1282, many of these Cumans fled the to the Golden Horde, thus unraveling Bela's The second Mongol invasion of Hungary is only though study of these sources has advanced our own video on it. While it remains assert that fierce European heavy cavalry there is no surviving source that describes seem to indicate that he stayed in the western throughout the Mongol assault. As it seems unlikely that a King so beleaguered and Barons would have missed an opportunity had he one to share. Instead, the campaign was sieges. The Mongols seemed unwilling to besiege and when they began to withdraw in the spring of considerable amount of slaves and booty; it and large successful. Carpini's doctrine here the botched withdrawal through the Carpathians where lightly armoured Vlachs, Saxons and Szekely prisoners. As reported in sources from Poland, army was lost to severe weather, epidemic and It seems that Carpini's suggestions were not now Khan of the Golden Horde, attacked Poland Major cities repulsed the Mongol attacks, and countryside and undefended areas. But Carpini Hungarian lords travelled in Poland to provide closest to a united military front ever offered. attacks on Europe. Raids launched by the Golden but these were on a considerably smaller Khan Oz Beg showed a remarkable willingness to the Polish King and the Lithuanian Grand Duke wasn't afraid to threaten a Mongol invasion, his ever committing any real strength to the far west. The ravages of the Black Death, ecological and left the Golden Horde in a state of anarchy from Toqtamish Khan, the Horde was once again plunged Tamerlane. In the midst of this, the rulers of western lands. The Lithuanians took Kyiv and generally offer little detail into the specifics much of these armies, with their own horse ironically, often fared the best against the of Egypt and the Delhi Sultanate. Thus, Carpini's successes European armies did have; but in regard, were no longer providing a disciplined, united #2 Ruthenians Mongols. We will focus on the princes of Halych and the lives of Danylo Romanovich and his Mstislavich, who became the powerful prince of the becoming Grand Prince of Kyiv, renewing an crushing defeats on the nomadic Cuman people. He and Welfs in the Holy Roman Empire and was killed 1205. His sons Danylo and Vasylko were no more to independent boyars and rival Knyaz, while tried to raid or exert control. The city of Danylo Romanovich fighting almost every year for for instance, installed his young son the Romanovichi brothers brought their family Danylo and Vasylko would ally with the Poles and Plots and rebellions challenged them regularly. soon becoming warriors famed for their strength, Gradually they reclaimed their family lands of Halych itself remained under constant threat of the 1220s, the young princes were among the Romanovich was among the many princes, boyars, listening to the accounts of terrified Cumans from the east. A great host of Rus' and Cumans, coalition, marched into the steppes in the spring parties to observe this new foe, eager to make worthwhile comparison to his late father Roman's, nomadic foes. But the Mongols would not be The Rus' princes, their retinues, and the the Rus' better equipped. They made a good show great numbers of Mongol cattle. They captured and out the coalition. The Rus' chronicles record their revenge on this Mongol leader, whom they Stephen Pow, this was the ultimate fate of Jebe Jebe's co-commander, Subedei, could not let this Mongols deeper into the steppes until reaching the and crushed the alliance. The Halych-Volhynian fiercely but suffering a wound to his chest, had incurred until during the bedraggled retreat with the Mongols, but it would not be his last. princes had ever suffered to that point, The principalities remained a mess of shifting The Halych-Volhynian Chronicle reports that no peace. They continued to battle Poles, and Cumans, suffering defeats and victories. death of Andras and his son Bela IV's ascension and Vasylko visited Bela and began negotiating a was one of these trips in 1240 when the Mongols Danylo seems to have failed to take heed of the as the prince of Kyiv, Mikhail Vsevolodovich, fled was content to appoint a boyar, Dmitro, to govern This Dmitro commanded the city when it fell to the are told the Mongols spared Dmitro because of his Danylo learned of the Mongol attack when he to Halych. Riding with only a small escort, wife, children, and brother Vasylko had also into Hungary, Danylo and his family returned to beyond comprehension; we are told that they could stench of the corpses; at the city of Volodymyr', the Blessed Virgin filled with the fallen. he did not let it despair him but turned many of whom refused to listen to him or acted as called off with the return of Batu and Subedei's a portion of the army to track down Danylo. He damage on the country as far as Volodava. not far away. Despite the common claim, the Mongol in Mongolia. Batu only went as far east as the steppes to his princes and generals, assigning a Cuman rebellion in the steppe. One of Danylo's was put to death on Batu's order for failing to While almost all Rus' princes and church leaders Danylo tried to avoid any formal recognition that the destruction in Halych-Volhynia was an army for a four-pronged assault on eastern Mikhailovich, a rival prince backed by Bela IV Danylo's son Lev was old enough to join his Poles, and Hungarians. Whatever the terror of the his power; an opportunity his rivals grasped or at least not immediately, to give himself time But in 1245, envoys came from the Mongols Halych-Volhynian Chronicle specifies Danylo's begun. With great trepidation, Danylo traveled he spent 25 days with Batu, who greeted Danylo have come of his own volition, though he felt it milk to drink, he told the Knyaz that he was now If the lengthy condemnation in the Chronicle then Danylo hated his experience with Batu. he met a Franciscan monk, John de Plano Carpini, Carpini had already met with Danylo's brother Franciscan that the Pope was seeking to organize a to Danylo that he could join such an alliance, While not keen on the religious concession, mind. By the time Carpini returned from he found Danylo excited by the plan, sending Pope. Carpini tells us he learned much about some of the anti-Mongol defence measures likely came directly from Danylo and Vasylko. exchanged envoys with the Pope while building and strengthening his army. The thought of armed could allow Danylo to punch above his weight. In Batu to his advantage; Bela IV finally agreed and Danylo's son Lev, rather than an attack Batu's ire. Danylo also acquainted himself with led an army to Bratislava to assist Bela against Danylo, his guards, and their horses were adorned By 1253, in Dorohycyn, Danylo formally adopted Pope's representatives as King of Ruthenia (rex provide material support to Danylo. He received Danylo quickly reneged on the commitment letters demanding his return to the fold. Danylo Still, by the mid-1250s, Danylo felt strong enough battles with the Lithuanians and other neighbors a powerful body of heavy cavalry armed with bows and sturdy heavy infantry fighting with shield along border towns, Mongols and Danylo trying those who defected. In 1255, perhaps following Vasylko and his son Lev campaigned along the Bug But the Mongols struck back the following winter his advance troops were repulsed by Vasylko's as Danylo's had been gathering his troops devastating fire. The Halych-Volhynian Chronicle But people and troops fled, assuming While Danylo tried to gather his forces, Quremsa many refugees had gathered. He failed to ford cut down the bridge before Quremsa's troops could on account of strong winds allegedly throwing the Halych-Volhynian Chronicle. Quremsa withdrew position. Danylo was fortunate, as Quremsa was the Knyaz's misfortune. The Halych-Volhynian him. Quremsa's successor was a different story. had accompanied Batu and Subedei on the great Jochid Khan, Berke, wanted to tighten the leash in 1257 came with a simple message: Boroldai was they were truly at peace, then Danylo would join. to send Danylo to Boroldai, so Vasylko went in Boroldai in a number of battles against the his ability. Meanwhile, Danylo navigated away from but placated Boroldai returned to the steppes. in November 1259, Danylo and his family were when more messages came from Boroldai, demanding Danylo's son Lev, and the Bishop of Chelm went them trembling. He then ordered they demonstrate Reluctantly, they carried out Boroldai's will and towers. Boroldai accompanied Vasylko fire to the great wooden walls and dug up the enjoying a dinner in Vasylko's home there. stood their ground, barring the doors and arming sent Vasylko to receive their surrender. Under Vasylko urged the garrison to submit; but as men in the city knew how to interpret it, and moved on. Perhaps hearing of Danylo's flight to the Polish duchies and unleashed a swath of departing with considerable loot. Danylo Danylo returned to Halych, having been passing from illness in 1264, and Vasylko a the throne as King of Ruthenia. Unlike his father, instead, he used them. To deal with raids requested support from the Khan or prince Nogai, Lev's border. He learned the lessons of his stability compared to him. The rule of his family #3 Mamluks was Ayn Jalut. The famous battle and the campaign with a plethora of lessons he would employ against Qipchaqs, Turkic nomads who lived in the great Kazakhstan. When the Mongols conquered those displaced and sold abroad. Baybars and other boys descendants of the mighty Saladin. They were soldiers on foot and horseback, equipped with the bow and mace, these slave soldiers, or mamluks, of the age. When the French King Louis IX and at the battle of Mansura in 1250, 600 knights knights escaped alive. In the ensuing days, the captured Louis IX, but murdered the last Ayyubid between Mamluk factions for control of Cairo. forced to flee to the Ayyubids of Syria. There, to rally his forces against the approaching to trust in the walls of Damascus and Aleppo. great army of Hulagu which had taken Baghdad Ayyubid defenders. Thus, Baybars abandoned Qutuz, now the Sultan of Egypt. Al-Nasir shortly fell to the Mongols in the spring of 1260. region to stand against the Mongols other too disunited and weak, and not desiring to Hulegu withdrew with most of his army to the to the Mamluks demanding their submission and autumn. Hulegu left his commander Ket Buqa to new government under a puppet Ayyubid prince named was not in the midst of preparing to march various local pastures to rest for the summer. slide. The emirs were terrified of the Mongols Qutuz and Baybars assembled a force and a few thousand refugee soldiers who had fled including Turkmen, Kurds, and Bedouin. The march needed to rally the emirs into advancing. to quickly collect his soldiers from across the and local forces, with a large Syrian contingent made titular head of Syria. Its exact size is The two armies met in early September 1260 at the backbone of both armies. Fighting began with day's ride ahead of Qutuz, and was forced to fall the full Mamluk army arrived and formed up. aspects. Mamluk accounts stress the early arrival describe a Mamluk ambush. Uniformly, they depict back the Mamluks and requiring Qutuz to reform his the ultimate Mamluk victory that day. While it's through superior numbers or with gunpowder, at Ayn Jalut come from later military treatises Qutuz and Baybars' leadership preventing a Mamluk the defection of al-Ashraf Musa, an Ayyubid prince flank. Either fearing the outcome of the battle his forces fled the field, allowing the Mongol for the Mamluk victory was their superior armour, combat. Thus, with some difficulty, the Mamluks Qutuz and Baybars pushed the Mongols to the border princes, rewarding those like al-Ashraf Musa, or while appointing a new governor for Syria. Baybars assassinated him, revenge for Qutuz's Baybars' chancellor and favoured biographer, rightly guided by Allah, struck down Qutuz. consolidating power. Ayn Jalut hadn't broken everything he had in order to defeat what was army. He knew the Mongols would seek revenge in Mongol army attacked Syria, which was defeated boost to confirm the outcome of Ayn Jalut. Mongol conquests, Baybars built his defense. victories: a disunited defense and too much trust and local superiority of force. Detailed and prepare for Mongol advances. Diplomatically some of the pressure, while also maintaining their to prevent the situation al-Nasir Yusuf had strengths, particularly their strong core of and deny the Mongols their own advantages, their his entire kingdom to counter Mongol invasions. learned of the death of his brother, Grand Khan and the Caucasus that his northern cousins Horde. Their tax collectors had been stationed Hulagu ousted them for himself. The ruler of was a Muslim who already disliked Hulagu for his considered his own, coupled with the mysterious army, and without a Great Khan to mediate between princes in 1262. Hulagu spent the remainder of when he died in 1265, his son Abaqa took up provided Baybars valuable years to nurture his Baybars' first steps were securing and principalities from Jordan through to while he incorporated the Bedouin Arabs of Syria with the Mongols. The governor of Syria appointed forcing Baybars to lead a campaign there to Baybars forced most of the Crusader settlements allowed Baybars to reinforce Syria with soldiers states were generally a minor annoyance, to fall in 1268, Krak des Chevaliers in 1271, and a slew Given his lack of royal background Baybars needed to reinforce his position in to the last Abbasid Caliph, and quickly had him he declared an attack on Baghdad with his new and then sent the Caliph out with only some 400 caliph was killed on Hulegu's order. What exactly at the time, and despite efforts to justify it, But, generally, Baybars was more effective. with spies in the Ilkhanate, he wanted to know if knew it. His spies are alleged to have spread at times. It was important to the Sultan to know and for this, he established the barid. Perhaps this was a system of relay stations for messages This was supported by signal towers, permanently as well as messenger pigeons, improved roads, travel from Egypt to Damascus in three days. region; when taking a Frankish or rebel city or while border fortresses, primarily the Ilkhanate like al-Bira and al-Rahba, were forts survived numerous failed Mongol assaults. Mongols pass the border forts. As stated, Baybars picked off one-by-one by the Mongols, as had order was for garrisons to retreat to an agreed Mongols in a unified body, or await the arrival employed in every major Mongol attack on Syria defensive measure. Baybars also made it customary came of a Mongol attack. This generally served while also reminding the Syrian population to protect them, or to punish defectors. And could then raid over the border, particularly Baybars also improved the army, especially and rewards heaped upon them, but also the halqa, men, native Egyptians, Kurds, Turkic auxiliaries, this body over the fourteenth century, and The Mamluk garrisons in Cairo, particularly of were reinforced, with hippodromes built in give entertainment to the population, while But Baybars also had to expand the he needed steady access to Turkic slaves from encouraged good ties with the Genoese and the VIII. The Genoese ferried the Qipchaqs on their the Byzantines kept the Bosphorous open for their cooperation of the Mongols in the Golden Horde to them from harassing the Byzantines. This brings Upon learning of the war between the Golden Horde Khan through an Alan merchant. It stressed the against the Ilkhanate, but with no response from year, with a host of Mongol refugees. There were been provided to Hulegu for the campaign but were betrayed and attacked by Hulegu at the under their commander, some to the Golden Horde, the opportunity. He welcomed them to Cairo with how well he treated these Mongols. Their leaders into the Mamluk army. These were the first of the They were far from the last. Periodically, other captured by the Mamluks after a victory, or sold Mamluk Egypt and incorporated into the army and in the Mamluk state. One, named ironically the longest reigning Mamluk Sultan, an-Nasir himself took three wafidiyya women as wives. Mongol army. In addition to his spies among the most well-informed individuals allowing him to further finesse his strategies. late 1262, Baybars installed a new Caliph, then how he had so kindly treated Berke's soldiers. and this time Berke responded kindly, kicking off two centuries. So began the alliance between resulted in any military cooperation, it did keep despite some periods of cooler relations. which always feared a joint attack by the Mamluks encouraged. Preventing the Ilkhanate from massing served Baybars' defenses all the better. as a relationship of equal partners, with the and the religious senior, it's speculated that the Mamluks to them. The Golden Horde Khans, as may have seen it natural for the Qipchaqs in by their shared religion. For in Mongol imperial rulers. Further, Mamluk embassies always bore a while the Golden Horde rarely sent gifts in This is not just a modern observation; complained of how uneven the relationship was, and By the time of his death in 1277, Baybars Mongol military prowess. A strong army but in addition to this offensive weapon, Baybars too, while diplomatically preventing the Ilkhanate And it is a testament to its ability, that when the Il-Khan Ghazan overcame at Wadi al-Khazandar. As a result, the Mamluks #4 China North China's Jin Dynasty in 1211, this was of invasions going back well over a millennium. of northern China had already been under the rule dynasties since the 10th century. From active all sorts of tactics and strategies had been to stymie the advance of the nomads. but we can observe some general trends. Firstly in the open steppes of Mongolia. Nomads subsisted ocean of grassland. For Chinese armies reliant the steppes seemed a desert. Additionally, more conflict with Chinese invaders, dragging them when they weakened, or dispersing utterly and challenges could be met by skilled commanders lesser generals it led to humiliating disasters. against the nomads. It's best to deal first with Chinese border fortifications go back before the Great Wall of China is not a single structure Qin Shi Huangdi, constructed an infamous Long wall, made of pounded earth and layers of reeds, China built a number of walls in different places winding structure that stands today was built by some 400 years after the Mongol conquest of China. walls constructed by the Jin Dynasty which ran of low rammed-earth walls and ditches. But the to Chinggis Khan, and allowed him free passage. of defense. They served three primary purposes: route; second, a signaling service to alert of the wall to mobilize for the threat; and third, restricted the sale of weapons to the nomads, control this trade or funnel it to a few select walls as pure defensive structures, were usually the late-Ming period after the humiliation of the Ming Emperor and besieged Beijing. After this, first protect the route to Beijing from the north, Generally, the actual first line of defence That is, dissuading them diplomatically, or A common tool of persuasion was extensive gift the nomads before their attack. Though more than it was considerably cheaper than an actual intended to 'civilize' and weaken the 'martial isn't great support for this. For nearly the first Dynasty had to recognize the Xiongnu rulers annual tributes, known as the heqin He Qin treaties, princesses and other treasures. As a 'means to and appears a retroactive justification. The encouraging revolt among its vassals and princes few well-placed campaigns of its own. preventing nomadic unity through divide-and-rule eastern Mongolia and parts of North China which was ruled by the Khitans, a people related they established garrisons, forts, and towns a Dual Administration: using customary law of Dynasty laws for its Chinese and Bohai population. the Liao Dynasty also reorganized the population bu Bu , which can be translated as unit, department, leaders, and their replacement with loyalists to call their own, while also serving as units for kept the Liao secure on their steppe border, where the Jurchen people in Manchuria the Jin Dynasty, and conquered north China. the passing of the Liao garrisons, the steppes who had not been under direct Liao control, like the nascent Mongols ruled by the grandfathers the Jin employed a very different technique their borders their vassals, who manned the steppes just south of the Gobi, and provided and military support to those specific group. this was chiefly the Tatars in eastern Mongolia, and stopped any other group from becoming too the Jin switched their support to another people 1190s this was a Kereyid Khan named To'oril, Unfortunately for the Jin, while their attention the Southern Song Dynasty, this young warlord In 1206 he declared the Mongol Empire and took his new nation on the offensive against the Jin. As already noted, the Jin's border guard largely themselves were no meek force, and arguably at the time. At their core were Jurchen horse by Khitan horsemen and thousands upon thousands China plain is divided from the Mongol steppes the select navigable passages through them, which reinforced these gates, spreading caltrops and but the Jin were overconfident. The Mongols inform them of Jin positions, allowing them to overcome the Jin forts while lacking their own in abundance, and haughty, or revenge-seeking, Jin The Jin were hampered by poor leadership; within the Jin's offensive and political capabilities emperor abandoning the central capital of in the new capital of Kaiping, the new Jin Emperor the south! The further division of the strained resistance. Many cities were simply left to their accession of a new Jin Emperor in 1224, and the and peace between Jin, Song and the Tangut against the Mongols. The Yellow River now stood the Mongol Empire, and the few routes around or This also saw the creation of a new army to and Filial Army," this was an army specially made and deserters from the Mongol army, it was a Naiman and Qipchaq origin, fighting as mounted of regular soldiers and armed with fire weapons, to reclaim their lands. Shortly after the news came that this army inflicted several was even against a rising Mongol general named permanently from command in his wrath. when they fought the closest to the Mongols. too late. By 1234, in alliance with the Song resistance. Soon after, the Mongols and Song were the Jin experience. The Song had fought with when one of their strategies had been planting Khitan cavalry formations. The Song territory and damper, cut by many rivers, marshes, wetlands, horses and spread disease among the northerners. incompetence is undeserved though. The resistance the Mongols would face. The Song's large cities border forts and walls guarded major routes, natural barrier, patrolled by the Song navy. The from counter-artillery catapults and to well-armoured infantry protected by long if far from ideal, still managed to produce some managed a surprising degree of flexibility. While borders, rapid mobilization of several Song armies and often these cities were retaken soon there was fierce resistance in over forty years Great Khan Mongke and cost his life from infected his top generals. The Song defence was of friction against the Mongols, hoping that It proved, however, a misplaced strategy. Courtly struggled to deal with the economic cost of the more and more financial and manpower was thrown the Song struggled to field enough troops against and men from across Northern China, but from from the Ilkhanate, ship builders from Korea, of the Song. The vigour with which the Mongols Song could produce and finally, after tremendous The expulsion of the Mongol Yuan Dynasty from and the new Ming Dynasty had to relearn period saw invasions of Mongolia, some disrupted life in the steppe, destabilized the but never resulted in conquest or definite the Ming encouraged rivalries between the Western sending supplies and titles to both parties, and never letting either become too powerful. But effective campaigns and political meddling, Toghon and his son, Esen Taishi, to dominate armies sent against him were crushed, as Central Asia. The Ming decided instead to cut Esen Taishi began raiding the Ming border. When face him in the battle directly, Esen Taishi In reaction to this humiliating failure, the Ming along their northern border. Even still, Northern Altan Khan laid siege to Beijing again. The was the break-up of this renewed Mongol unity itself as the Khan's influence waned. This of the Jurchen, the Manchu under Nurhaci and his the last reigning Chinggisid monarch in Mongolia, his son submitted to the Manchu and their newly as their subject, the Manchu managed to take of almost all the Mongols. Here, the Qing employed units were broken up and reassigned to Qing dismantle the network that would previously have the Qing in the conquest of China in the coming they were too few and disunited against ample gunpowder weapons, to pose an existential #5 Korea The Conquest of China opened the road to Korea. by the house of Wang, had successfully resisted Jurchen Jin, who had also fought as horse archers into beneficial tribute relationships with these Korean kings were reduced to figureheads, while Korea. General Ch'oe Ch'unghon took power in the rule over Korea throughout the Mongol conquests. Koryo's northern neighbour, brought unease to was killed in the fighting, while new break-away border at the Yalu River. In autumn 1216, several the frontier. Skilled horse archers, the Khitans modern Kaesong. With effort, the Koreans halted 1218, the Mongols sent some 30,000 troops into would crush the rebel Khitans, the Koreans would and would then pay tribute to the Great the Koreans acquiesced, sending 1,000 picked Khitans were crushed, and Korea began Korea's first Mongol experience was relatively their cities had not suffered. The dictator and desire to pass his rule onto his son stopped judged the danger of this new foe, expecting the Jin's tribute demands. Ch'oe Ch'unghon died in Ch'oe U. A military man like his father and next two decades. Ch'oe U detested the Mongols' desired for their water-resistant properties. his chief commander Muqali had been left With Muqali's death in 1223 and a reduction in the changed dramatically; while the Jin made peace in Manchuria ruled by Puxian Wannu declared which declined but made their own moves. In 1225 disappeared while transporting the annual tribute but the Mongols put the blame square on Koryo. both Puxian Wannu and the Koreans to be punished. attack against Wannu. With the failure of the of the peninsula, the first of six Mongol crossed the Yalu River in autumn 1231. The attack in the field and Kaesong surrounded. Yet there especially Kuju. Famed for a victory over early 1232 under the command of Pak So, the city occurred early in the siege. The southern wall skilled unit of pyolch'o, translated as Defense Patrol. These were local troops from outside in guerilla warfare. Sending most of the unit 12 picked men before the south gate. Telling death as their fate," Kim and his men withstood further resistance. Attacks were launched on carts of dry grass and wood to the gates to burn a tower built before the walls to protect sappers their own walls to pour molten iron onto it. 15 counter artillery; scaling ladders were toppled allegedly in human fat, set aflame and hurled but the crafty Koreans smothered them with mud and the walls, which the defenders filled as they were no success, the siege was lifted, the Mongols Military ruler Ch'oe U came to terms with the that Kuju had continued to resist that he wanted executed, fearing that their defiance would interceded, saying: "Although he went contrary We are not going to kill him now that you have to kill the loyal subjects of all your cities?" in the first month of 1232. The tribute demands slaves, royal hostages and clothing for 1 silver and other treasures. Appointing overseers, peninsula conquered. The Koreans were less while Koryo sent much in gifts, it was unwilling 1,000 otterskins. By the summer of 1232, Ch'oe U island, under naval protection. Mongol officials open revolt. Sartaq returned in the fall of the country's northern half until he was killed Kim Yunhu. On Sartaq's death, the Mongol army lack of navy would stop them from being able to The Mongols were not done with Korea. Hong Pogwon, gave them control of the lands north The next attack came in the summer of 1235, after by Tangut Ba'atar, was hugely destructive; with he had penetrated some 470 kilometres into Korea. and alternative strategies were developed Kanghwa Island, most of the population outside or mountain refuges to escape Mongol riders. pyolch'o units launching surprise night raids, small parties. Hitting quickly and hard and using than even the Mongols. It was a frustrating increased when they got frustrated. Fortified and when they did fall, the destruction and the death toll was horrendous. The guerilla who could not bring the country to submission. By winter 1238, the Korean court was willing destruction. As the Koreans feared, Mongol demands the Mongols required a census and for the Mongol court at that time. For the military His legitimacy rested on his control of the King; on Mongol terms could not be accepted as long two years, the Koreans made excuses not to send to be the Crown Prince and sent to the Mongol out about the deception... 14 years later. By then, married the daughter of Great Khan Mongke. tribute, Ch'oe U achieved a six-year truce. The the mainland though, and their envoys grew ever next six years building elaborate fortifications while consecrating Buddhist projects like the In autumn 1247, the new Khan, Guyuk, ordered Again the countryside was abandoned for guerilla attacks were launched; the northern half Guyuk in summer 1248 and Ch'oe U in winter 1249 by his son, Ch'oe Hang, not the equal of his than his father, he struggled to maneuver the and within months he faced coup attempts. again, envoys demanded the Korean King visit the excuses were made. King Kojong was too old and sending the crown prince again, while preparing Prince Yeku into Korea in August 1253 alongside that King Kojong had six days to comply and meet the King actually met with Mongol envoys it achieved nothing. Once more Mongol forces were to their hideouts. Pyolch'o raids attacked cities which fell to them. Yeku was held up and defended by Kim Yunhu, the same Buddhist Monk who Mongke recalled Yeku before the end of the year and Hong Pogwon continued the campaign for a amphibious warfare: seven captured Korean ships to no great result. Amukhan pulled the with reinforcements under Jalayirtai Qorchi, with Early in the summer of 1255 Jalayirtai and by then, aside from years of destruction and in the midst of an ongoing drought. In the first 206,8000 persons were taken captive. The suffering again in autumn 1255, beginning a ship building the Mongols were considering assaulting the well frustration is evident in his response to Korean peace and Mongol withdrawal, to which Jalayirtai, snapped "if you desire peace and friendship, then Jalayirtai's withdrawal in the autumn of 1256 was When Jalayirtai returned in the spring, it must by a thread. Ch'oe Hang soon died, succeeded by His attempts to win favour by grants of food to enriching themselves and his own poor decisions. the pressure of the situation finally led to Ch'oe's palace in May 1258. Ch'oe Ui tried to himself over. Caught by the assassins, Ch'oe rule in Korea. Gaining the support of the elderly Kim Injun made himself the new military than the Ch'oe's had been and still refused arrived in the summer of 1258 brought threats that Jalayirtai received further reinforcements. the King was met with unchecked destruction across come to them, the Mongols would impose direct were, they could not stop the Mongols. military rule began across the country, and towns Mongols rather than continue fighting. With food nearly to dust, and in the spring of 1259, a peace was to travel to the Mongol court as a royal the defences of Kanghwa were demolished. Kim Injun lesser than that of the Ch'oes. Organized Koryo 1259, Prince Wang Chon set out for the imperial ruler to recognize MKhubilai as the next Great Wang Chon with an armed escort to return to the venerable Kojong had died in July 1259. Kojong and fittingly he died only weeks after it ended. Wonjong, proved a loyal vassal to Khubilai Khan, of Khubilai's daughters. Military rule assassinations and rebellions, and the Korean Koryo was a fully incorporated client kingdom. The when briefly ousted by a coup, Khubilai's Mongol demands upon Korea did not grow any less for another war, this time fighting alongside the needed by Khubilai Khan against the island submission. Korea was to be a launchpad for #6 Japan Bakufu had been preparing for a Mongol attack for Diplomatic contacts between the Mongols and Japan over the next few years. The rude, silent an offensive maneuver regardless of the Mongols' potential consequence could not have been lost on Khan's letters demanding Japanese cooperation coupled with contacts with Southern China's been quite aware of the risk they faced on such Japan must have felt reasonably secure at first. more energetic and confrontational man became regent for the shogun, and in turn, regent for the the man who steered Japan through both Mongol Hojo Tokimune anticipated early on the after his appointment, began to send additional one of Japan's southern islands close to Korea. accessible and protected beaches and bays made was Hakata Bay, the most direct harbour for ships centered defence preparations here, with and garrisons steadily being placed in proximity. Korea. In 1268, the same year of Hojo Tokimune's to begin the construction of a new fleet of remained the primary target, the construction not be kept hidden. Indeed, when a large revolt deposed the Korean King Wonjong, some Koreans made the revolt, and requested Japanese assistance and the Mongols crushed the revolt by 1271, hold over the peninsula. A Mongol army was But the words of the Koreans confirmed have brought with them words of the fleet Japan. As Khubilai Khan's envoys continued to doubt of the threat now on the horizon. Hojo war footing. Yet the curious nature of Japan's While Japan was nominally ruled by the Emperor, figurehead by the Shoguns of the Minamoto clan in the thirteenth century, the death of the shogun creation of a regent position, the shikken, from Thus the de facto ruler of Japan in the 1200s This caused some legal troubles for the Bakufu, troops who were gokenin, landholders who were Mongol invasion, Hojo Tokimune legally could not troops from Kamakura, who he had direct access follow his example, but he could not enforce it. the gokenin, reliant on their landholding establishment of the Bakufu, parcelled out their invasion, many of these lands had diminished so Suenaga, they were only able to raise 5 troops to but more than what the common gokenin could muster. Many of the gokenin struggled to their mounts in the necessary arms and armour, let of travelling to Kyushu. To remedy this, in the the Kamakura Bakufu passed laws forbidding non-relatives; land already sold had to be was changed so that these lands had to be returned improve the ability of the gokenin to meet the time, he consolidated positions of power around command in the face of the many powerful lords In late 1274, the fleet of Khubilai Khan's Korea to Japan. The islands of Tsushima and While the islanders put up a spirited defence, A few refugees from the islands brought word to upon learning of the Yuan's approach, he most momentous event of my life!" When a Tokimune shrieked, "Katsu!" - victory. for years. Most of the defending troops along but additional troops from Honshu were sent in the well, and the Mongols landed precisely where he disembarked on the soft sands of Hakata Bay on there to meet them. As the Yuan ships had neared and even as the first clashes began, more gokenin Kyushu to join them. The fighting that ensued was many of its men of greater experience than that the Yuan troops broke through several sections towns. Still, the level of Japanese resistance anticipated. The archery of the samurai was of the top Yuan commanders and stole his horse. was putting up greater defence than they had force was not large enough to fight their way occupy all of Japan. A withdrawal was undertaken the gokenin Takezaki Suenaga indicate a carefully returning to their ships and sailing back return journey more difficult, stories of great exaggerations not present in contemporary sources. in the form of waves but through ensuring of But Hojo Tokimune was under no impression and knew another attack was forthcoming. Khubilai would rise again over Japan-- especially executed by the Japanese. Hojo Tokimune did to prepare for the next invasion. He had he also understood where his preparations assault likely to be much greater, he needed to To do this required more samurai to be in Kyushu, regardless of whether they were gokenin or not. To military governors of Japan's provinces, with carry out his orders. In an expansion of his troops not normally under his jurisdiction, power of the shugo was also increased locally warriors now being called up for duty may Traditionally, the Bakufu and Japanese their valour in combat against the enemy, with In a war in Japan, there were many lands to from a foreign foe who left little behind. Many and lives at stake to travel across Japan to Kamakura city for their reward. The rambunctious and saddle to pay for his journey to Kamakura from the Bakufu was reluctant to pay the expense for leave their posts in Kyushu, and did not want horses and equipment before the Mongols returned. citing military necessity. Of the estimated 6,000 120 received rewards, mostly those of the higher come, this had severe consequences for the Bakufu, paying all of their own expenses for the campaign. help was sought, as shrines and temples across victory. To better defend Hakata Bay and prevent was given to expand the sea wall. It appears at certain points around Hakata Bay, remnants past. Now they would be expanded well beyond 20 kilometres east and west of Hakata Bay, an was quickly raised. It was a simple but effective hide behind and fight from, which would obstruct to flank the defenders of Hakata Bay. Landing and this would not be the best of times. land had the wall pass through it, was responsible While it was another cost-saving measure for the it was supposed to be complete before the end of At the end of 1275, Hojo Tokimune and his advisers launching some sort of invasion of Korea. While some ships and gokenin. Undertaking such a task, their abilities while at the same time planning the Bakufu was dealing with reports of conflict demands being levied on them, all the while and men raised for the scrapped invasion of Korea When the larger Yuan fleets of the Hojo Tokimune's preparations showed their part of the Yuan, with one of their fleets delayed instead of landing and beginning their assault, trying to seek some unguarded section. With the ships to bring the fight to them. In the night, scaling them and battling on the decks. A but by the time a storm surge at the end of August had been sapped and had been unable to force Even after this victory, Tokimune did not let send envoys with demands for submission, and made maintain garrisons and patrols on Kyushu, with the island without permission of the Bakufu. Kyushu Hojo clan, with more Hojo shugo appointed there to The sea wall continued to be maintained, stores and any official or landowner who complained Another plan for a Japanese invasion of Korea was the threat of a third Yuan attack remained too and Mongol interest in a third attack quickly in 1294. But Hojo Tokimune never knew that He was succeeded by his young son. With the boy another regent. Thus from 1285 until 1293, acting for the shogun acting for the emperor, more by his father, the previous emperor, Without Tokimune's presence, the careful system he began conspiring against each other for power impoverished themselves to fight for the Bakufu invasion, these had mostly been given to important this way, the Bakufu inadvertently created a men. While the threat of a third potential for a few years, by the 1330s, the once mighty #7 Vietnam Kublai stretched to the south, too. The Kingdom of had dominated the northern part of Vietnam since the Hong River with their capital at Thang and wealthy through a rich agricultural base, in succeeded by the Kings of the Tran family. The new power and expanding their agricultural base, official language of the court, and Tran made good to the northeast, to which Dai Viet paid tribute lucrative trade; to the northwest, trade flowed a cordial period began with the Chams. Austronesian people, inhabiting central For most of their history, they were a Muslim kingdoms. However, in the twelfth century, an invasion by the Khmer Empire of Cambodia, the kings,' the Chams repulsed both the Khmer Though not as centralized as Dai Viet, from the based out of the city of Vijaya wielded more this was the nature of the kingdom of Champa. This armies arrived in the mid-thirteenth century. armies. In 1253, on his brother's orders, marched into Yunnan and conquered the Dali his general Uriyangqadai stayed in the region Uriyangqadai, the son of the famous Sube'edei, led the edges of Tibet, to the small kingdoms on the process, Uriyangqadai came to the northern border of Dai Viet, but given that the entire aim the Song War, Dai Viet was not a primary target. the Tran kings from offering any support to the three-pronged assault upon the Song for 1258 schedule. With Dai Viet's considerable trade wanted to know if the kingdom would not harass court at Thang Long asking for free passage for in the winter of 1257, Uriyangqadai and his son, supported by locally raised troops from Yunnan. the vanguard to cross the Thao River, north Uriyangqadai knew of the river fleets used by Dai thus neutralize their mobility. The vanguard and a frustrated Uriyangqadai then advanced to Viet war elephants, the Mongols had the better the elephants' eyes. However, a defiant rearguard via ship, and the always-strict Uriyangqadai The Tran forces' effort to stop the Mongols the Mongols found a ford to cross and then rout the capital city, Thang Long, only to find and most of its population had evacuated the Vietnamese and Chinese sources differ on withdrew and was harassed by local forces as they the Mongols at bay. While ambushes, heat, humidity simply did not have time to stay in Dai Viet After the withdrawal, Uriyangqadai was crossed a failed effort to link up with Mongke Khan. their relationship with the Song, giving tribute parties, and Champa followed suit. The Mongols but Mongke's brother and successor Khubilai Khan their allegiance in person to him. With the there was no buffer between them. Khubilai grew refugee Song officials. By 1280 Khubilai demanded he must send a massive golden statue the kingdom's most skilled doctors, artisans, This was perceived as insubordination, and Khubilai had his pretext for war. Striking at between Yuan China and an occupied Champa. The an easy target, Khubilai's officials telling him Chams. After the failure of the second invasion victory. Worn out by the intensive 1270s, by the had outlived his wisest advisers and most veteran Khubilai now demanded it immediately. of Fujian, departed with 5,000 men from arriving near the Cham capital of Vijaya in short fight, the Cham leadership, King Indravarman Sogetu tried to pursue, but in the jungle, his retreated to the coast to dig in and ask for aid. for a third invasion of Japan. Only in March abandoned, was an army of 20,000 dispatched by they arrived the next month to link up with along the coast. The Cham King Indravarman sent to offer tribute due to the plundering. Such By August 1284, Khubilai's eleventh son Toghon Sogetu. The Yuan ordered the Tran King to supply At that time, the reigning King was Tran Kham. was still alive but 'retired,' abdicating the successor while avoiding that strict chronicle, the 'emperor-emeritus' Tran Thanh across Dai Viet to discuss the best course of "Fight!" And so, the Trans began to prepare Of these, one man is the most famous: Tran Prince Hung Dao. The nephew of the first Hung Dao was a shining beacon of loyalty his natural talent and skill made him a favourite marked his character: as a young man, Hung engaged to another man. With the oncoming Mongol preparations, training men and officers before In January 1285, Khubilai Khaan's son led some eight tumens from Yunnan into Dai Viet. Tran royal family, Tran Ich Tac, who the Yuan going to place onto the throne. Another column who had previously fought in Burma and was a son Viet border troops were quickly overcome, and the a great pincer movement on Dai Viet. Prince with Sogetu capturing 400 renegade Song officials up with Toghon, the Yuan had an entire river Omar. Omar chased the Tran King to sea while sent against them were annihilated, and many But this was the final success of this campaign. Mongols. Yuan forces and supply lines were and disease took their toll. The Viet troops also June, one of the Yuan generals was killed, and officer and his entourage, fighting alongside some Yuan detachments, many of whom were former "kill the Tatars!" on their bodies, angering, deeming the position untenable, ordered a and his army behind. Sogetu attempted to fight his army surrounded and destroyed. one of Khubilai's own sons failing to deliver allow Toghon in the capital and ordered a third joined them, and great effort was taken to prevent ships was assembled on the southern Chinese coast for an army assembled from across the Yuan warships and transports. Toghon was given a final It should not be imagined that Viet and meted out savage reprisal on any city that starvation and horrors greeting the population wilderness to escape the Yuan armies: their and resources goes unmentioned in the sources. The for the second time in thirty years. In Champa, burned his way through many of the most prominent The third invasion began in October 1287. Toghon. On the sea, Omar and Fan Yi led warships fleet followed some days behind Omar's armada. marching to Van Kiep on the Bach Dang who arrived after their own victories. Despite relying on the transport fleet. But that destroyed by the Viet navy, which under With this maneuver, the Yuan plan was broken. took Thang Long in February 1288, only to find the loss of the supply fleets, he withdrew to and by the end of March, with his men on the verge the Viet forces sprung their trap. The Yuan army's of roads and bridges to hamper their movements. and beasts, humidity warped their bows, and the ensuring sleepless nights. Toghon, great-grandson a copper tube on the march, then abandoning On April 9th, 1288, Omar's fleet was sailing past led by Prince Hung Dao sailed out to meet him back up the river, Omar in pursuit. Hung Dao but wooden stakes placed along the river bottom in place as the tide receded. With the Yuan many Yuan soldiers drowned in the river or fell to other fleet commander, Fan Yi, attempted to rescue killed in the fighting. Some 400 Yuan ships were of its land forces destroyed in the wilderness. the destruction of the great armada off the shores with little to show for it. Toghon was sent into his son another disgrace to add to The Mongol failure cannot simply be reduced to humidity, and disease wore down troops unused immediate causes. The destruction of the cities the Viet or Cham Kings, the Mongols were denied Mongols struggled to supply themselves due Most importantly, Yuan leadership totally hampered by the inept and inexperienced Toghon and the military leaders of Dai Viet, skilled men maximized their strengths and struck the Yuan when in the initial field engagements, the Yuan Still, both Dai Viet and Champa had and Khubilai threatened another attack relations eased between Yuan, Dai Viet and to the Yuan Khans for trade access, gave a nominal #9 Java Eastern Java and parts of the neighbouring islands the Kingdom of Tumapel, named for the city of the as the Kingdom of Singhasari, thanks to its King kings were not absolute rulers, as much of their kings and chiefs. But they controlled a lucrative Indonesia and across the southern coastline of Java was a leading exporter of goods from China to while In turn, importing gold, silver, The southeast Asian sea trade was a valuable since the ninth century, and one which attracted By the 1280s, the Mongol Great Khan Khubilai had were frustratingly eluding him in Central Asia, the knowledge that he was failing to bring the heavily on him. Now in his seventies, with his and family, increasing removal from affairs mortality, Khubilai became desperate for Economic aspects too, were not to be inevitable universal domination. Khubilai's Yuan norms and traditions, maintained the Mongolian treat them as inherently lower class, they were Yuan government partook in this with the conquest a Bureau of Maritime Trade at the major port of the trade in and out of Quanzhou, but sought traders there. Contacts were made across the the Philippines, Indonesia including Java and There is evidence for south Indian-style Hindu from this period, a significant Muslim population by which Marco Polo recorded the name. Speaking trading community in Quanzhou. It it was the port that Ibn Battuta, during his Dynasty had a keen interest in trade, and sought region-- at the same time extending the Mongols' With these considerations, Khubilai Khan increased Asia, from Malabar to Sri Lanka, ordering the to the Great Khan. As it was an old tradition trading with China, most regional states already greater access to Chinese ports. While traditional the trade and maintain the image of themselves exercise actual authority in these states, the a vassal to the Great Khan meant the potential to the Khan's desires, measured through census sent his diplomatic missions over the seas, increase the tribute, but to increase the extent with the will of the house of Chinggis Khan. arrived in the court of Kertanagara, the king had been the King since the 1260s, and had shown Tantric Buddhism. Since his ascension he had most of Java. By all accounts, Kertanagara was spice routes, and much less keen on sharing it after feeling offended by the envoy Meng Qi and branded his face with a hot iron, cut his nose he had committed a grievous insult on may have heard, was not something taken lightly. He did not want to increase the share of tribute but still wanted that Chinese trade. It was a was well outside the range of an actual secure from any repercussions. Once tensions send an apology mission and resume trade. Khaan was not feeling reasonable. By the later his wife Chabi, chosen heir Jingim and his most depression had clouded his judgement. Khubilai's Song Dynasty were marked by thorough preparation weaknesses within the enemy to bring the final surrendered by yes-men who lacked the ability Khubilai had come to rely on throwing manpower lead automatically to strategic victories. but he did not care. The ruler of some island in World. Thus, Khubilai ordered an attack upon the At least, this is the understanding from the Dynasties. In the medieval Javanese and Balinese unmentioned. Instead, Khubilai was a friend of the provide military assistance to the royal family of by a man named Jayakatwang, and Khubilai's forces placed the rightful heir, Kertanagara's took in exchange only a beautiful princess most reconstructions rely on the Chinese account, how they justify and depict the Yuan presence. prepared in 1292. 20,000 men, mainly from southern army was led by the former Song commander and all were under the overall command of a Mongol having learned from the disastrous naval assaults supply of grain and 40,000 ounces of silver with Khubilai himself before their departure: the to Yiqmis' expertise, and that they must proclaim but merely there to punish Kertanagara it may reflect an understanding that facing battle was not ideal; the strategy it seems was to their presence anticipated to be enough to earn making a short stopover in Champa, now paying officers were dispatched on diplomatic missions seeking tribute and submission. By March and preparing to make landfall. It was decided to to convince Kertanagara to submit and avoid having on the diplomatic front in a week, then the The diplomatic mission found no success, for the time of their arrival. The haughty king of vassal, Jayakatong of Gelang, based in the city based in Majapahit, was resisting him, and the week after the envoys were sent, the armada landed and Yiqmis disembarked and marched to Pachekan. ships under the command of Tuqudege, sailing with the land force. At Pachekan, Jayakatong's against the Yuan. The Yuan commanders landed and over and discuss terms. No response was made by army advanced. Jayakatong's navy retreated before forces made their way inland along the Brantas. envoys of Raden Vijaya, begging Yuan help: and Jayakatong of Gelang's army was on its way to Vijaya would submit to the Great Khan. Seeing submission of Java, Yiqmis ordered Gao Xing to while Yiqmis took the rest of the force to evade Gao Xing and reached Majapahit, only to meet Jayakatong's tired troops. After a night of of the Yuan troops, and altogether they drove promised his total submission to the Great Khan if good, and after providing them maps, a week later The Yuan moved in three columns: the fleet on and Yiqmis taking their forces up either bank, Majapahit under Raden Vijaya. The army made good Jayakatong prepared with a large force. The next Jayakatong's force advanced three times, and by the arms of the Yuan Dynasty and Majapahit. fleeing across the river or into Kediri with and by nightfall Jayakatong surrendered. of Java. Raden Vijaya's promised submission now Majapahit with a small, unarmed Yuan escort to that force departed for Majapahit, Shibi sent stayed in Kediri with a small force, thinking Once Raden Vijaya saw that the Yuan at the end of the day he killed the Yuan escorts armies and urged the people of Java to repel the the trap for him at Kediri. He fought his way back the ships the commanders argued over whether choosing the latter. Not knowing the country, they understood further combat would likely Shibi ordered a withdrawal back to homeport. maps of Java, population registers, spices, did not offset the costs of the campaign. Not as even this tactically well-executed campaign and resulted in a humiliating retreat. Khubilai them of a third of their property and rewarding Khan died in early 1294, there was no stomach in Southeast Asia. By contrast, Raden Vijaya that came to rule most of modern Indonesia and By the end of the 1290s, after Khubilai's to resume valuable trade contacts. Despite their in the Javanese chronicle there is but a single sending people running in flight: reflective perhaps helping with the memory of the assist his friends in exchange for a beautiful their forces earned in many other places. Mongols with perhaps the most minimal amount of they took advantage of a well-prepared, but not only use Mongol troops to their advantage, little bloodshed. In many ways, it was the beneficial resistance put up by any of the #10 Mongols none of the conflicts were as fierce as the ones the Toluid Civil War, the first and most important were younger brothers of Mongke, the last died in 1259, and both wished to succeed him. Ariq located in the Orkhon Valley in Mongolia, he had constructed in today's Inner Mongolia. to Mongol-ruled Northern China. While Ariq had family for his claim as Great Khan, Khubilai had not have access to large armies, while Khubilai used in the war against the Song Dynasty, leaving advantage in manpower. Furthermore, Qaraqorum other food supplies to supplement its largely Khubilai cut off Ariq's access to food supplies Ariq in battle in autumn 1260, and forcing Ariq in the face of Khubilai's advance. For a conflict making it clear Ariq could not hold the imperial armies forced Ariq to withdraw to the Yenisei rich agricultural region, with the cultivation it was insufficient against Ariq's enemy. Ariq his own allies, before a harsh winter eradicated From the outset, Khubilai was more willing to appears, until quite late, to have been under the giving Khubilai a head start in preparing for of Mongol-ruled China to bear against Ariq, and ultimate card in Khubilai's favour. While the are sparse, Khubilai's armies consistently had far fewer troops to call upon. Khubilai's The defeat of Ariq Boke was not the end members. With Qaraqorum rather exposed, Khubilai Kaiping in Inner Mongolia, renamed to Shangdu, and Beiing. The result, though, was that Khubilai's and subject to raids from princes who continued ally Du'a of the Chagatai Khanate, dominated from the Tarim Basin to western Mongolia. A the previous Great Khans Mongke, Ariq Boke the Altai Mountains to the Yenisei River valley, with Qaidu, to at times joining Khubilai. In the the descendants of Chinggis Khan's brothers also to complete his conquests in China and abroad, cousins in Mongolia continuously. While none had threaten his hold over Mongolia and other border almost annual attacks along a vast frontier. Nomoqan and Kokochu with a large army into Qaidu while another army pushed across the these gains had been reversed. Hoqu, a son of the Tarim Basin. The next year, a mutiny by the in Khubilai's sons being captured and sent to the Then, Shiregi and Tuq-Temur attacked Qaraqorum. frayed, and Shiregi and some of the other princes time, Khubilai sent a large response force and Tuqtuqa of the Baya'ut Qipchaq. Both were of the final conquest of the Song Dynasty. a thousand Qipchaq warriors, they defeated to execute his former ally Tuq-Temur, before being Khubilai was pleased with the performance of his became one of the key arms of his anti-Mongol Egypt and India, Khubilai felt the best way to better-equipped horse archers. Tuqtuqa's family and the Mongols recognized their military frontline troops. Tuqtuqa's father Banduchaq was of the Dali Kingdom in Yunnan in the 1250s, war against Ariq Boke. The Mongols always sought and following the defeat of Shiregi, Tuqtuqa and of land around Khubilai's capital at Khanbaliq. realm were assigned to Tuqtuqa's command. In the Qipchaq Guard [Qincha wei Qin Cha Wei ], consisting of from horseback, supplemented by Alans, Mongols archers. The command of the Qipchaq Guard was held rule in China. Though one of several such guard richest and most prestigious and held The Qipchaq Guard was soon put to the test. In by Prince Nayan, a descendant of Chinggis Khan's Manchuria by Prince Qadan. Nayan overcame and it was feared the Nayan would coordinate with point in his early seventies, depressed, obese, roused himself for one more march. According to own Mongol troops showed hesitation to fight other in Mongolian, rather than fight. Khubilai called and would be merciless. From a command post on the final campaign, backed by the Qipchaq Guard, while and Qadan, preventing them from linking up with Nayan was overcome. Amongst Khubilai's units were his service apparently brought with them handheld some of Nayan's encampments. Nayan himself was his allies continued to resist for several years. After Khubilai Khan's death in 1294, his grandson the name Oljeitu Khan. Among the first things he and then send him to the frontiers to continue repelling annual raids or launching their of the Altai. Tuqtuqa spent the dying there in 1297. His son Junqur inherited Under Temur Oljeitu Khan, a more structured frontier. In a vast arc stretching from the Onon-Kherlen Rivers to the northern foothills with thousands of troops to respond to incursions. brother, Kammala, in Qaraqorum. He also expanded a numbers of Chinese labourers into the regions communities, expanding agriculture and frontier garrisons and reduce some of the Temur Oljeitu Khan switched to an offensive stance was captured and killed by Du'a in 1298. A of his empire. While Khubilai had continued into southeastern Asia until his final days, Temur and directed the might of the Yuan Dynasty against as overall commander of the Yuan forces in backed by the Qipchaq Guard under Jungqur and battles were fought around Mount Tiejiangu days. Despite the fierce clashes, the outcome was Qaidu's troops harassing him the entire way both Qaidu and Du'a were injured in the battles, Du'a lost his interest in fighting against when rumour came a few years later of a threatened the other Khanates, Du'a submitted to Temur the same. Over the course of 1304, the various overlordship of the Great Khan, a recognition a part of this, Du'a and the Yuan divided the Despite similar quality of troops and tactics, the wars. It was able to continually use its vast garrisons to respond to incursions and showing back from defeats when they occurred and bring were reduced to hit-and-run tactics and plagued Southeastern Asia and Japan, against other Mongol Other strategies can be observed in the wars the Golden Horde and Chagatai Khanate. The war almost concurrently with the Toluid Civil Caucasus Mountains, which the Golden Horde invaded seize them from the Ilkhanate and its successor and the frontline rarely shifted. The opinion of is that while the Khans of the Golden Horde were better equipped. In the narrower, uneven supply lines and equipment of the Ilkhanid troops precise details on the course of these battles. personally, taking with them their keshig and most from advancing too deeply. The Ilkhanid soldiers foes back into the steppes. In late 1262, Hulegu's trap by Berke Khan and routed. While fleeing, only to lose even more of his army when the ice Ilkhanate on any further expeditions into Golden conflict, Hulegu's successor Abaqa, constructed a garrison there to defend it, ensuring it would for the Ilkhan to respond in force. For its part, in the steppes north of the Caucasus, to prevent journey north again. The result was an effective overcome the other or its defensive preparations. the Ilkhanate's frontier was more open and Ilkhans left garrisons in that region, and often tasked with responding to attacks by the Chagatais the Ilkhanid responses were somewhat or Negudari raiding parties escaped before the where larger-scale invasions did occur, as by responded personally in great force. Abaqa Ilkhan outmaneuvering Baraq and inflicting a crushing only to have been much larger, better equipped too, compared to the Chagatayid army, which even horses for its men in the dry conditions around Abaqa then invaded the Chagatai Khanate, a rare one of the chief cities of Transoxiana and major attacks on the Ilkhanate would result in that the Chagatai undertook larger-scale attacks were generally halted by effective Ilkhanid Chagatais tried to coordinate these attacks but the timing never quite succeeded and the to respond to them one-by-one. An attack by the was halted due to an invasion of the eastern forces under Junqur and the Qipchaq Guard drove animals, families and cities. Fear of coordinated against the Chagatai Khanate, and the increasing 1320s onwards, put an end to such efforts again. on each other, but each one was too powerful the task would require each khanate to leave its had the relative advantages, the Ilkhanate and affairs and the campaigns expensive occurrences. and their wars coming up, so make sure you are consider liking, commenting, and sharing - it without our kind patrons and YouTube channel in the description to know our schedule, get and much more. This is the Kings and Generals