- Here's the best part. - It's white. Okay, whatever. - It's a very tall car. - This is the best part. We paid attention to the mattress. - A lot of shelves in general. There's a lot of shelves. Right here, here and here. - So we have a main heater, a backup heater, a stove as well. - And that's not all! Hello guys, welcome to Nizhny Novgorod. Today we are going to watch something interesting with you. At the wheel is Artem, who has already legally started this truck. - You got your license? - Why? - We work with these cars, it's a shame i had no license. - Turned a tire? We thought we'd make it pretty, turn the wheel so you could see it in all its glory. One of the first... Artem, hello. - One of the first or the first? I don't think I've ever seen an RV like this in Russia based on an off-road Shacman. Folks, the first one... Well, not to be deceived, one of the first luxury RVs based on a Chinese truck. Review. Let's go! - We have the Shacman X3000 in front of us. - We're not experts in trucks, especially Chinese trucks, but as we've just noticed, while we were driving to your base here, we met about five of these vehicles. - This base is new to us. We haven't tried it, we haven't tested it, but what are we guided by? First of all, these machines have been around for a long time used as special equipment, so we think that since this equipment is operated and bought in large quantities, it must be pretty good. - This car is for organization. It will work in our country. - Yes, in our country. - Before we go around the circle, you have two other interesting pieces there. First of all, there's this one right here. That's our new MAN. Where did it come from? - From abroad, obviously. - What do you mean, from overseas? I thought we were saying that the MAN era is coming to an end, and now it's going to be Shacman. And then all of a sudden we're faced with something that looks very expensive. - That's a nice car, fully equipped. - It's an RV machine. - This machine is already prepped. With the factory and Toni Maurer company. Roughly speaking, it's attached to the factory. Which does all the refinements that the factory can't do. Long and expensive, but licensed, so to speak. - Like Brabus at Mercedes. - Wow, there's a bed made there, too, right? - That's a big bedroom space in there. - And there's also a drop down and a passageway at the top. That's going to be interesting to watch. - Speaking of options. Here, for example, there's a Mercedes standing there, also new, fresh. - It doesn't have mirrors. - That's a topic like that too, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. As the owner says, he's got like a G-Class inside there. - Mercedes truck with cameras instead of mirrors. Well, it's probably been around for a while, but this is the first time we've seen it. - Yeah. And this is the car that came from Mongolia. It was bought in Europe by Mongolians and brought here. - There are schematics. Schematics. Is this still a project in progress? - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - So, $350,000-plus, like, right? Just the base. - Yeah. - Just the base. - Next, well, just for looks. - How much is that worth to us? - $115,000 to $130,000. - Base. - Yeah. - Kamaz. So you've got three Shacman's here already. - We've got more. - Where do people get so much money? I mean, I mean, these are expensive projects. You've been doing non-stop for how many years now, you've got the sector beaten down. - Well, that's ... First of all, I don't know where they get all that money. How much does a Shacman cost? - Also $115,000 to $130,000. That's how Kamaz turns out. There are probably people who will write that it's almost twice as cheap in Kazakhstan. Well, here's the real price in Russia, if you want to come today, buy, here it is. - Right away the most interesting thing. - Light gray Shacman in front of us. - It's white. Okay, whatever - It's white, or it's gray. - How much money? Tell me, please. - Actually, quite full, all-in-all it is. So about $290,000, I guess that's right. - Not counting the base? - Or something like that. With the base. - Really? - Up to $350,000 for sure. - Again, we're talking about a car that costs less than that, than some stock Range Rover in the showroom. $350.000... Oh, well... - You've got a base being brought in. - Yeah. - Or did you buy it yourself? - We bought it ourselves. It was an orange one just like the cabin that we see. We took it completely apart. All painted in the color we were asked for. That's super successful right there. - Super successful? I think it's super successful. It's like it's here from the factory this winch. We had it installed. Are you gonna watch the cabin? Come on, come on, come on, come on. It's a little low, you know. - It's very tall in general, the car. Very tall. And we say &quot;Okay, let's make cabin higher! The most frequent health problem for truck drivers is spine! It's because of hign ladders&quot; - On the one hand, it's probably handy for getting over any off-road stories there. On the other hand, climbing, you've got to be a nimble guy. - You know, it's cute. It's kind of neat. Well, for the money. Hey, Kirill. - How's that? - And there's going to be a driver from this organization driving around here, apparently, right? I liked this one the best, because the Chinese made it from the factory. - That's from the factory? - Yeah. - Wait, is it built in or something? - Well, yeah, it's glued on. - It's still interesting, though. - Requires repair. - What's that fallen, I wonder? - Something's broken here, yes. - Right now, folks, the situation. 55 seconds. Folks, welcome to the Italian brand Candy's specialty store. Refrigerators, cooktops, small appliances and, of course, washing machines. But the top-of-the-line model. This way. Candy Ultimo. It has a maximum load of seven kilos. Yes, you can wash a blanket in there. And it's only 42 centimeters deep. Durable and quiet inverter motor. Washing can be started even when everyone is asleep. Convenient control, 13 customizable programs, fast washing 39 and 15 minutes. And also antibacterial treatment of the cuff and tray. Removes 99.9% of bacteria. Now for the best part. When you buy in the brand store candy-home.ru on our promo code 10% discount. All the details are already at the link in the description. We recommend, let's go on. - Show us what's interesting here, please. - Every single element here, it's all been discussed and agreed upon. - Generator. - Yes, there's a generator here. - And the MAN that we were filming, there was some cool stuff in there generator that time. - Built-in generator. It's pretty rare these days. But it's here. - Rare? Is it hard to buy? - There are those, yes, generators. - Is this one easier? - There's one for $35,000. - You can get it for $600, $11,000, and $35,000. That's all for three kilowatts would be, well, roughly. Shipboard generators, they cost that much now. - There's all the boxes. Boxes, boxes. - There's a lot of them. Their job is to carry a lot of stuff. - There's something modest here. No bathhouse. No balcony. No motorcycle. - All to their own tasks. Here we have this task of going this way, doing that. We need here, for example, we need a washing machine. - Is there a washing awning in there? - awning . - Yes. - Is there any way to make a awning higher? This is where we take it. And here we've already have it higher. That's one up like that. Well, here it is already higher. - There it is like it's already more securely standing. Same drawers. - Oh, it's beautiful. Now that's beautiful. Oops. What was that? - The wind. - Fiskars. - It's something German like that. - It's made in Finland. - Where did you get the Finnish shovels? - Oh, at the regular store. So there's storage space in general. - That's where we haven't shown it yet, on that side. - And here, by the way, there's two big refrigerator-freezers on both sides of it Will be pulling out on the platform. Well, just as an additional opportunity to carry food. Because there's a 220-volt outlet here and a 24-volt outlet here. In order to plug these refrigerators in here and drive. - Is that what they asked for? - So they don't need to store the sapboards, they don't need to store the fishing rods, but take more food with them? - Right. What are those wheels? - That's an interesting name for a wheel, isn't it? - Triangle? The round wheel... I always thought, well, who came up with that? Well, the wheels are fine, by the way. - What else is interesting outside? - There's the fuel tanks. - Is the tank stock? - The tank I think is stock, yeah. - It comes straight aluminum from the factory too, by the way. 500 liters. - Did you see that in here? 007. Somebody's been watching too many movies. Look, they made a logo. - Yeah. - Just like James Bond's. - They put up the flashlights. - Yeah. - And a little bit of trunk, yeah. - So the roof, the roof is exploited by you? - Okay, the solar panels are there. - Here you go, please show it to the guys. - There's a removable chimney pipe that's going to go right here to be mounted if necessary. - Is it a fireplace? - Yeah, there's a stove in there. - An RV with a fireplace is cool. - We've got lighting here. - We've got security cameras over there. - What are the cameras for? - Again, a working story. Something happened, we need to see what and why. I've got it all on camera. - Come on down. Okay. You mean you can walk all the way across the roof? - Sure. And not just one person. - The rigidity of the van increases when there's a lot of partitions inside. We have a lot of partitions in here. - Let's go take a look. 55 seconds and we're going in. Folks, now let's think about how to make money with an RV like this. Here's an interesting figure. There are 20% more jobs in IT in 2024, and these companies also have insurance, remote work, and career advancement. It's a great time to learn a new profession with an IT Specialist course from scratch from Skillfactory online school. First you will try 9 top directions to understand which profession is closer to you. Then you will start full-fledged training. If there are any difficulties, experienced mentors will be there for you. After completing the course, the career center will help you find a job. If you can't, the school will refund your money. It's stipulated in the contract. And we also give you a 45% discount with promo code 808. Follow the link and master the profession of the future. Skillfactory teaches those who are hired. Good luck! - After you. - Coming through? - Man, it's a little too pretty, you know. Okay, this is for shoes. Oh, by the way, you've got to put your shoes somewhere. - And here's the place for that. - Yeah, it's raining, it's not like we're going to leave it here. - Two shelves. There's more of this going up here. - And there's something else up here. - There's a button right here. - Show me. - Oh, there's a box. - It's a little thing, it's nice. - There's no handrails here yet, by the way. Literally there's still a little bit of tweaking of the car here today. There's this cover right here that covers the overall floor, is going to be attached as well. Handrails. And then this mosquito net will come down to it. Something out of the ordinary with all the kits. - Here's something that's not standard at all. - It's not standard at all. - This is the first time we've had a layout like this. It kind of turns out to be different cabins here. This one closes like this. The first door goes out there. That's it, the man is in there. There's a second door here. And essentially, we are now in the vestibule. - Yeah.Very interesting. - So there it is, the dirty zone, the cold zone. Here's a big opportunity to hang something, put your shoes on. And there's some more shelves in here. So this is the kind of vestibule that it is. - I'm sorry, what was the pallet down there? - That's an interesting thing. This is how we do it. - Ironing board! It's awesome. - That's the outlet right there. - The jacket you ironed this morning.... - Well something, yeah. - And off he went. - That's a cool thing. And just the only place to turn around and interact with the iron is here. Control panel. - Yes, the standard one. - Anything that's standard is hiding here. - What is High watch? - And this is a camera recorder. - Oh, does it also record to memory? - Yeah. There's a two terabyte disk in here. - Something they've been wrapping up quite a bit. Guest area. - Yeah, that's the guest area. - Man, I'm at a loss, which one of your RVs is the best equipped? - Well, what can i say? It's gets better with every next project. - There's a lot of dishes in here. For everyone and everything. - For the whole brigade? - Right there. One, two. There's just a box here, there's another set here. - Whoa! What do you need this for? - What's what? This? - Yeah. - And this is if you don't feel like drinking water. - Ah, well, just a little bit of water. - A little bit literally, yeah. These guys right here, they know how and what they're going to use. They've got a purchased zip kit for the car here. - Who? - Well, spare parts. - Ah, got it. - Almost half of what's in here. Huge crates packed up. Where there are two full sets of dishes. It's all in there. - Good job. - Pumps, faucets. They say we need everything. We're going a long way. This is what we're taking right here and hanging it up so it doesn't get in the way. - High. - The microwave is some kind of special again. - The microwave is an automobile microwave, yes, 24 volt. Dometic. The hood as well. That's real tile. - Real tile? - Well now for the most interesting part. We turned our attention to the mattress. - Look. This is the control. Right away. Security story. So we have to activate. - The power to the bed. - The power supply, yes. Well to... We're holding, she's on her way. Here I'm letting go, she's getting, I mean, just in case. - That's awesome! - Look, I'll tell you right off the bat. There are retainers here that are like this, they're secure. Although the straps hold it on as well, but it's better to do that. - You haven't done that before, have you? - We haven't. Here we were asked, we've built a complete mechanism from scratch here.... In fact, there's not a single part here that's purchased. Except for the belts. This mattress was made out of size. This is the one thing that shouldn't be visible. We'll put a new mattress in tonight. - Anyway, a lot of things are going to be even more beautiful here. - We make our own mattresses, so we make them quickly... - You make your own mattresses? We make our own mattresses, too. We sew and make our own mattresses. - That's awesome. - And that's a bed, too? - Naturally, it also folds out, the table, there's an electric drive, that's it, it went down. - There's a lot of people that can sleep here. - It's fine, yeah. There's a soundbar in here. It makes the TV sound a little bit better. There's a subwoofer under the couch, it's all together. So there's a nice enough sound. We've had a story to fit everything in here, so this one. refrigerator, it's 140 liters, it's deep enough, but it's narrow. The rest, all the groceries we have are in there, you take it out of there, you put it in here, you use it from there. We have air conditioning blowing all over the place. - Just noticed it's cooler. - It's fine, yeah. I just turned it on before you got here. And so we get to sort of the first cabin or something. This is where I lay down quietly. You can see, yeah, the seats are fine. - Let me lie down, let me try it, please. - May I? - That's so cool. Wait a minute. Is there another bed above me? - Yeah. - We have separate lighting. - Oh, that's different. - We have separate lockers. - Cool, cool, cool. - And plus we have this separate shelf here, where we have Type-C, 220 volts. I threw my tablet in here, my phone. Something like that can be charged. - Saudi Arabian train people. Is this a smartphone shelf?! - Here's a shelf, put my laptop, my phone, put both on charge. There's outlets, USB Type-C, it's lying there and it's not bothering anybody. Is there a way to make it normal? - There's ventilation that's quiet enough, but if you listen to it, it works. It goes into the duct there To the street. - Nice. I can even see it here. - Air exchange. Customers say, what if we have an electric actuator in your bed breaks? So all our beds have manual controls as well. And lo and behold, we had a little thing like this printed, So that there's access to it, yeah. - Oh, and there's a knob on there? - Yeah. Here the control right here is located, again, what is this done for? So I can't do anything from here. - I can't accidentally step on it with my foot. - I should be right here, yeah, and control the situation. - Wow. - Uh-huh. - Mikhalych, lie down. - What were we thinking? If it had been here before, it would have been really bad. We did make this cutout right here, though. So you can get out here, you can sit down somehow, yeah, just like this. - Yeah. - And to be able to get in there easily. - That's the motion right there. And yet we haven't shrunk anywhere. And you even have a full-sized washing machine. - Yeah. Yeah, there's a washer and there's shelves. - So that's opened up. - Uh-huh. - what a beauty. The towels are hanging. Oh, and a reminder, right? That this is a cabin. - We're closing the cabin. - There we go. - Shower. - Compromise story. A shower along with a bathroom. - Finally a proper sink. You can wash yourself properly. - Look how much space there is. - Rinse off, don't spill anything. Lots of shelves. In general. Realistically a lot. - Yeah. - Right here, right here, right here, right here, right here. - Wait, you get a shower out of this one, right? - Yeah. - It's hygienic. - And this one goes here. Yeah, this one hangs up here. - I... And that's not all. - Yeah. - We're moving around. - Wait, is there another bathroom in here? - People build custom-designed cars for exactly, I think, that purpose. In order to realize that's what they want to do. It's like... Everything would be diffirent with this RV, if you change just one thing. It's kinda like tetris. - You know what I noticed? Even sitting here is comfortable. Sitting with a book. - Because it's a soft wall. - Yes, a soft wall. - Leaning back, a cushion underneath, under my lower back. and you sit there and it's comfy. It's going down, too. So we've got one, two, three, four... Five, seven people can sleep here. - Well, plus there's sleeping space in the cabin. - Eight! More cabinets. Very deep, by the way. That's very important. You can even fit pillows and a blanket in there. Wait, what's in there? - Under the bed. - How much water is in the tank? - Clear water - 600 liters. - We haven't shown a lot of important stuff. Power, wiring, well the only thing we showed was the remote control. Water tanks. That's all boult in down there too. - It's all crammed under the couch right here. There's heaters, air conditioners, batteries. Here in the front where you can load the most, there's water here. Boilers too, everything that goes with that. - Batteries how many? - There's six. - Six batteries? 150 each, yes. Oh, by the way, we didn't talk about the stove. - The stove, here. - Yeah. - Did they want to do it themselves? - Yeah, they said, they don't have to hide it or anything, let it stand there. So we have a primary heater, a backup heater, and a heater. - So you're giving that away already, right now? - Yeah, it's coming soon. - As far as the Shacman is concerned, what do you think? Where to at all? What's the outlook? - I think it's not a bad thing to have a choice at all. Let there be a Kamaz, let there be a Shacman, let there be imported foreign cars. We have more options, customers have more options, people will pick up each what they need. - Once again on the cost. - About $350,000 specifically this project right here. Here's the thing about installing a bunker on a Shacman, were there any technical nuances? Well, there are always nuances in any car. - Yeah. - But there weren't any special difficulties. - But it'll still be interesting to talk about in a year's time, maybe with a customer or come and take a look, how it goes. - I think so, yes. - Folks, as they call it, first to go. Luxurious, no doubt about it. Such a top-of-the-line Shacman-based RV. Nevertheless, this vehicle will go to work somewhere in the regions, where there's some big important construction going on. Kind of like that, right? - Well, it's a work in progress. - There's work going on. Across the country. - Thank you very much. We look forward to your comment. Volga Trande, an RV based on a Chinese truck. See you. Bye.