The Timeless Now 8 September 2021 There are two kinds of activities that I find myself wanting to share now. What I call, cosmic activity, was divinely created to perform, actually. And there's the activity, which is the kind of constant that goes on in our mind, which is an activity It distracts us from our natural harmony. The activity that comes from ego, or from strong personal identity, that will distract you and keep you blind to the deeper awareness of your soul force, your natural harmony or unity with the God-Self or pure Awareness. Now, we have been so much conditioned in life to develop in ego or personal identity, taking personal identity and not the root, or the fictional existence. The person, personality ... Sometimes people don't like to think that personality, personhood and ego are the same, Ego does not mean beating your chest Ego can also be like this. What does ego mean? It means a strong conviction that you are your body-mind conditioning, that you are your persona, Personal identity It's also consciousness, but it becomes so limited, so limited, because of its conditioning and outlook. It's like you're running, you're existing on 20 percent, Even that's a very high number, 10 percent. If we are living then we are almost cut off. You are never cut off, but you feel almost cut off, experientially, which we are, factually and fundamentally. So, if spirituality has anything, any power, it is again to reconnect, so to speak, Which is where? In which direction would I have to ask you 'Start going that way.' because you are sitting in your Self, We are sitting in the heart of our Self, of what it is, experientially. Is it too many words that I've spoken, like that? I'm not creating anything, This is the beauty of satsang. I'm not telling you what you have to become. Maybe, if anything, I'll probably show you Because what you are, you cannot become. Actually, life is about rediscovering our true, or fundamental reality, or nature. Unlike the ego, Can you see this? trying to become more loved, trying to become successful in the world, trying to become rich, trying, trying, trying So, few beings, and I count you inside that few, in this life, or in any life, have begun to discover, and to deconstruct from the delusion mentality, to rediscover our fundamental nature. And it's not like, No. Every moment! Once you've begun to recognise, every moment is like 'Every moment', You're constantly maturing. Because grace is just another word You are opened to grace. You are under God's care. I stand with every word I'm sharing with you. In our world, people, There's too much mental junk food, So nobody is keeping quiet. Even to say, 'Keep quiet' ... At a certain point, there's nobody to keep quiet, In the beginning, It means make effort. What's the effort? No, the effort is to not engage with the noise. If I say try and focus on being quiet, there's effort to be quiet, But if I say, but don't identify, then it's easier. Then you don't have to 'do' silence. What is the value of silence? Silence is the mirror to your own Being. Even in satsang, I say, if you pay attention, you see the mind movement, identity is playing, but you stay only to observe it, This is a powerful exercise for everybody! Look. Observe. But don't identify. And look what happens. At first, sometimes people are like 'Sorry, I can't do, it's too strong. There's no dimmer switch for the mind, It goes boom, boom, boom, boom! Little bit by little bit, you practice, you practice, and it becomes easier to observe Do we all get this, what I'm saying now? Because it's crucial right now! I was even saying to some people, For one minute at a time, observe your mind without going into shape. One minute. Maybe you can't succeed for even one minute. Then you begin to see the virility of your mind. For one minute he's already ... You're gone. You're down the road eating pizza ... You see the force of the mind habit. But this is the beginning of your success. Let's just keep watching without identifying. You can set a little timer, because if you do this Do it for one minute. Just at first, it's like an effort, But stay with it, If you don't identify with what is arising in the mind and the being, naturally and spontaneously into natural Self-awareness. We have very object-focused awareness, Meaning what the senses are bringing, It's like our day is full! Everybody is engaged, working for their mind. Nobody has time, not even the unemployed have time. Everybody is [mimes hectic mind], So observe this thing, naturally, just by that, which means the power comes back And you're going to love it so much that your love for it will result in the gift to be Self-aware. Remember, I'm not telling you, 'Reject the world, curse the world', Just know thyself. Be aware. Don't learn about your Self only by books. Just like you cannot go to a restaurant and be satisfied with just the menu. 'Beautiful pictures! Oh yeah, oh!' No, you cannot do it. You cannot do it. You must put it in the mouth, you must chew, you must swallow, must digest, then assimilate. You're not even doing it. You're not doing. At best, I can say you're chewing, but once you swallow, it's out of your hands. Another power is taking over, Then after assimilation: combustion. What we are sharing here, Use it. Follow it. Then it will combust into spirit, which means that it becomes one with you. I am not pointing to anything in the future, And even now, in the present, I am not even talking about the present moment, as a bridge between past and future! Beyond past, and future, and present! Because present also is manifesting But you will not conquer, you will not know it If it's merely a concept, 'Yes, yes, we are just the presence ...' But you must continue. I read something from the Ribhu Gita, It was a very powerful statement! It says that, all the pictures, that are manifesting are not stable and are fundamentally unreal, you must abide blissfully and content as the Brahman Self, as the pure awareness Self. You must maintain that conviction, even while functioning as an individual That state, is called Sahaja Nishta, the natural state. Having discovered that that is appearing The screen of consciousness, the waking state, but even the dreaming state, and there are the images of you and me, and heaven and hell, and life and death, Having come to the realisation that is unstable and fundamentally unreal ... Why unreal? 'The fact that something appears and I see it, So what does it mean 'unreal'? It means it has no substance. Throw your attention back to yesterday. How many things happened yesterday? Mostly they're gone, except what is quintessential, That is ever-present and timeless. But all things born of the mind, and different kinds of context, It's the nature of things. Just the fundamental love, that is the fragrance of your Being, and the continuity of your Beingness, awareness, But the stories, the pictures, become like clouds passing. So having come to realise that they are fundamentally unstable and unreal, live now, blissfully, aware of yourself And this conviction must be maintained, even while appearing to live as an individual in the world of names and forms. Even though we have to move, For you, your lives have changed. Probably you forgot that when we were living as we were rarely happy, But as you become aware of your deeper Truth, it's as though you've crossed over Becoming aware, You can feel pain, but rarely does it collapse Things are more momentary, You become much more stable, peaceful. When I say, Observe the mind, When the mind-stuff comes, It just comes. But look what ... even the thoughts, you're already here to see, You are without speed, You are the untouched. I'm not talking about you personally, We must come to be aware of our self impersonally. Then, as you discover you can take the shape of the personal, he won't trouble anything. Sometimes our prayer, 'Oh Lord, rid me of ego and merge me in You' ... This is a very profound prayer. It's simple, but the most potent! Don't be waiting to be free, anymore. And don't be claiming, 'Oh, I am free!' If you can stay in this place, where you ... As I said earlier, a simple exercise: you're aware of your mind movements, but don't subscribe to them, don't log in to the screen of the mind. Do you understand what I mean by that? You can be aware, but don't identify with it. Be aware that you are observing it, that you're just observing, and, spontaneously, you become Self-aware. When you're not fixated upon object-awareness, you become subject-awareness. Do you follow? And it's very quick. Now what? Abide in it. Does it mean, 'Oh, call off work sick', Do your things. When you have a moment, you sit with this, until you find that this presence It doesn't matter. Just like if you're working in the marketplace, and your name is George, You're doing whatever you're doing. You're not thinking, 'I'm George'. If anyone says, 'Hey George'. Did you have to think, 'I'm George, George'. No. Naturally, it comes. Naturally, even before the idea of George you are already the awareness. Now, what's happening is that that for so long we have been identified and this type of thing, you begin to recognise, And even, if you wish, you may just keep saying A simple prayer, 'Thank you. Thank you, Lord.' I gave this prayer some years ago, a simple beginning, simple deepening, and every day it's powerful, When I gave this exercise to some people, they said, 'Thanks for what? Thanks for what?' I said, That's how far you've slipped away. Don't worry, I say, just say thank you, and try to do it with some feeling, not acting. Say thank you, thank you, thank you. And after a little while, things start to come to say thank you for this, thank you for that. Thank you that I'm alive. Thank you that there's love in my life. Thank you that I can think for myself. Thank you that I can begin to enjoy Do you know how important that is? Thank you that I can begin to enjoy so that I don't always Thank you. Thank you for this breath. Sometimes, thank you for this sickness, even. Sickness helps you to throw off the world and to focus in your heart. Thank you for my troubles, even. Sometimes people say, 'I needed trouble to get out of trouble!' 'I need to go here to rise up again.' Just thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. And see how effective just this one thank you is. Thank you that I can be here. Thank you that I can listen to the birds, or see the sky, and feel joy in my heart. Thank you that I can drink fresh water. Thank you that I can sit on the floor. I'm not so comfortable sitting on the floor. So I see you, I think, 'Hmm'. I say, no, say thank you for everything! That already ... These things are simple pointers [silence] Let me live my highest possibility. Not a possibility created in my mind, but that which I am appearing in this form to do, But above all things, And that's not a personal success story. As I've said before, Freedom is from the ego. Do we understand what ego is, actually? Ego lives where we are unaware of our Self. It manifests as a sense of just a personal, Gradually ... Just keep remembering, now, who you are. When you are without all this stuff and what to do, and all the plans, and you are just aware and happily Self-aware, you are in your natural state. That is your Sahaja state, that is Sahaja Nishta. [silence] Having listened and sat together, what can improve upon what is here right now? What needs to be changed, at all? Pay attention only to the here now. The timeless now. Are you imagining this? [long silence] Can you be other than This? Remain shapeless. Then all shapes can play. But all shapes are momentary. The shapeless is timeless, limitless. Be only in This, and observe that all things are unfolding, but you will not accept anything as a curse. And you'll find that, somehow, some energy is supporting you all the time. When you're a person, this is not available. You're on your own, but personally. But when you're in your heart, you're on your own, but universally. And that universal one is abundant in love, and peace, and compassion. [silence] That has been the game of the existence. That is the game of the existence, the play of the existence, to take form. The formless appears, for a time, in form, to experience the diverse expressions of this diversified field of consciousness. To taste what it's like to be a person, to be personal and private, to have ambitions and projections, and dreams, aspirations, suffering, pain, and all the play of the interrelated opposites, as is prescribed And to transcend! [silence] To prove the greatness above all the limitations of personhood! Of course, the mind and personhood are going to promise a lot: And when we are dressed in personhood In one of the temptations of Christ, it says that And overlooking all, And Satan says, 'All these things, because it is given to me All this can be yours, if you only bow down And Jesus answered, 'It is written, &quot;Thou shalt and Him only you shall serve&quot;.' What is the Lord your God? The Supreme Self! The Supreme Lord of the universe! And why could he say that? Just be in your Heart. Your Heart knows these things It knows these things All that the world can give you, as a person, will turn to dust one day. Kingdoms and kingdoms have gone before our time, as we are now. Archaeologists, to dig things out with toothbrushes and things to show this, 'Look, look, this one, this is one of the teeth of the pharaoh, We always think, every time, every generation, every era in human existence, has always felt, 'We're at the top, It has happened before and before, Again and again we come to this place and we destroy our civilization, because we are not civilized enough to know God, to know our Self, in the highest sense. Each one here Just by your simple life. I'm not sending you, 'Go out and preach'. Just in your simple life, not hiding away, and not trying to shine. The one who shines within Be available to universal consciousness; you will never be disappointed! You will never be disappointed. What is happening inside you? What is happening inside you? Will it ever go away? What are you realising? What are you being shown? Will it fade? Because the mind will rise up. The mind will rise up, as though to deceive you, But you'll be here to see him. In your seeing, you will know, You will know that in your heart. You must be here first, Find out who this 'you' is. You must be here first, Find out who this one, that you are, is. [silence] Without pride, without arrogance, without fear. [long silence] If a diamond falls into mud, Maybe no one will see and appreciate it. This diamond is the true Self. The mud is the mind and the person. When the mud is washed away, you see the diamond lost nothing at all. Even while it was covered in mud, it lost nothing of its fundamental nature. [long silence] Don't think. Thinking is totally inappropriate for you now. [silence] Thinking, now, is disrespectful to your Being. [long silence] I give thanks to the mighty power of God, whose grace and love, wisdom and power permeate and pervade the hearts and minds of all who come into the hearing of This, the presence of This, and all who hold in front of them And only God can see His reflection And blessings upon you, each one, that in allowing your heart to see its own face, we are redeemed, and healed, and cured of delusion, and continue to grow in pure consciousness, in the presence and light Let it be so. Let it be so. Om. Shanti. Hallelujah. Amen. Copyright (c) 2021 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.