Transcriber: Hiroko Kawano How are you? This is very exciting - I love Nashville. It's one of my favorite towns. I'm here to ask you guys What do I want? What do you want? Have you ever asked yourself I never really did until about 2005. A little background. I was born and raised A first-generation American. It's where my parents moved to My dad. My dad was Bulgarian. He spoke five languages. He was an incredible man. He was beloved by everyone He had so much integrity. But he lived in Bulgaria. And he wanted a better life. He was drafted into the Bulgarian Army at 19 years old, and while he was there, he sees that there are 12 seltzer bottles And he looks around, and nobody's there, and he takes them. I don't know why he took them. For no reason other than probably he wanted to give them But he was caught, and the Bulgarian Army And so they sentenced him which he did. He got out early, at three years, He decided to stay in Plovdiv, and he eventually met a young woman, Soon she was pregnant, and while she was giving birth, Their son was born, but my brother Emil My dad, I think, experienced trauma - he wanted to be free. He wanted to leave this communism. And so he thought, Not so easy to do - you can't just leave So he tried to escape, And they put him into a forced labor camp. While he was in this forced labor camp, He was a coal miner, but he noticed that at night and these trains blocked a certain And he became friends with the guard, bribing him with a pack of cigarettes &quot;Listen, do you think I'm more of a night person.&quot; And so the guy said, &quot;Okay.&quot; So my dad now has a plan. He starts looking at all of the trains and he's starting to see the pattern. And one night, on the night shift, he says to the other people &quot;Listen, it's getting a little chilly. Do you think I can go down And they said, And he said, &quot;Can I bring because the two of us will save time?&quot; So the guard said, &quot;Okay.&quot; They timed it perfectly, they shot between two train cars, and they ran, and they ran, and they ran, and they continued running. And by the time they realized they were too far ahead to be found. They got a job on a boat - well, my dad did, the guy that shoveled And that boat was coming to America. But there was only one job, so he decided to ask if he could bring and they said, &quot;No.&quot; So my dad stowed Richard away on the ship. (Laughter) They eventually made it to Philadelphia, where they left the ship to be in America, and never turned back. And that's where my parents because my dad had the courage he wanted to be free. He wanted to come to America. And he did that. My mom. My mom was Greek. My mom was Greek, And when she was four years old, her family, who was doing well in America decided to go back to their village, which was on the border but technically in Albania. And there, during that wonderful summer of vacation, this little American family her father died unexpectedly. And my grandmother was now a widow And the [Greek] relatives said, &quot;Stay in the village. What is a widow with four children And so now you have that have left their home back in this village that was not the home It was just the home for now. So they stayed, and they stayed for a few years. But war started to break out, which was now occupied by Italians armed guards everywhere - they knew that it was getting rougher But they didn't know how. Now, you have to understand something. When my mom was talking I grew up in the Hollywood Hills - I thought it was going to be like you see in the movies But no, there were more mountains. The mountains were huge, And the plan was this: my family was going to go at night, when they weren't going to be suspicious, when everybody was thinking when there was no reason to think in the middle of the night. But there was a hitch. My mom found out there was a letter And if somebody was not there the guards would know they had left. This was a tiny village. They would recognize if you weren't there. And so my mom had to ask What do I want? What do I want? I want to go home. So she decided to volunteer Her family went on ahead, and the next night, she went by herself to meet her family, who was waiting so that they could go back to Athens, That's how they end up And my parents accomplished they were able to ask themselves and take the steps to make it happen. And here I was, I was able modeling and doing the Brady Bunch - some might know that episode. Pat Conway, Greg, chose me not Marcia or his girlfriend. (Laughter) And I loved my life. And my dad was a bartender. And I remember putting from his tip bag together on Saturdays, and those would go to the bank. I didn't think I wanted to be I wanted to be like my parents They allowed me to have dreams to be an actor, because of the risks that they had taken. And so I just wanted to be with them, and I never thought or could even want anything else. Success to them was living without fear, was living in a free country. And then in 2005, I read an article that changed my life. It was an interview And the reporter was asking Oprah, &quot;I don't understand it, Oprah, You have a TV show, you write books, you produce movies and TV series. How do you do it?&quot; And she said, &quot;Well, And when you know you can take the steps Most people don't know What do I want? That was a terrifying question to me. How could I even want anything? Like, I felt that that's a question That is something Why? I had everything. In 2005, I had the greatest parents. I had an amazing husband, children. We had our health. We were living the life. To ask a question like &quot;What do I want?&quot; felt selfish. It felt greedy. It felt that I couldn't. And so I didn't ask the question. I tried to ask it, I wouldn't even allow myself the fantasy But as an actor, we have an actors' game So I started thinking, &quot;What if I could want something, What if? And so I'd go jogging, and I'd be asking myself that question. What if I could want something, And one day, the answer came to me. Music. Music was the thing that gave me joy. When I look back it was music. I would sing &quot;Ode to Billy Joe&quot; And by the way, what the heck (Laughter) My mom and I would drive in the [car]; I would hear music on the radio, and she would say things to me like &quot;That song going to be a hit.&quot; (Laughter) And we would sing along. I took a job as a ticket-taker called the Universal Amphitheatre, because all summer long but we were allowed to watch the concerts. And I would sit on those steps, and I would watch the artists And I thought to myself, How do they get up there? How do they get in a band? How do you write music? How long does it take I didn't know how to make that happen. There wasn't YouTube at the time. My dad was a bartender; nobody in the business that I knew - but I wanted it so badly. So back to 2005, and shortly thereafter, And I walk into the office, and they asked me the typical question when you're having a meeting &quot;So, Rita, tell us What do you want to do?&quot; And I said the words, &quot;Music. I wouldn't mind doing a musical.&quot; And it felt like I was standing there like in that dream when you're naked (Laughter) and everybody is staring at you and you know it, but you can't move. That's what it felt like. And they looked at me like, &quot;Hmm, music.&quot; They had never heard that from me before. So sometimes the universe conspires And I promise you this. The very next day, I got a call. And they said, &quot;Rita, you have an offer to play Roxie Hart I really couldn't believe it - and I said, &quot;Nora&quot; - you know who she is, and I said &quot;Nora, I've been offered What should I do?&quot; And she said, &quot;Well, you should go see it, (Laughter) So I was like, &quot;Okay.&quot; So I get my husband, I get my daughter, and we go see the musical &quot;Chicago.&quot; It is fantastic. Everybody is incredible - the Bob Fosse choreography, the singing, the dancing, the laughter - it was incredible! And during the intermission, I turned to my husband, and I said, (Laughter) &quot;There is no way I am doing this musical.&quot; (Laughter) And he said, &quot;You are doing this.&quot; I said, &quot;I'm too terrified; I turn to my daughter, And she said, &quot;No, And I think sometimes know what it is that you should be doing And so I did &quot;Chicago The Musical&quot; on Broadway. (Applause) And it changed my life. It changed my life. I got to sing every day. I got to sing great songs every day. I met amazing people. I had a community. It led me to the mission statement - that I was only going to do projects And fortunately, I found that my husband and I made I wanted to do a musical and met with a friend of mine And I was telling him the ideas, and he said, &quot;Well, why don't you and see if you - where it goes.&quot; I said, &quot;But I'm not a singer; I did a musical, but I'm not a singer.&quot; He says, &quot;Just meet a friend of mine And before you knew it, I was making Going to the studio every day, I can't even tell you the endorphin high And then another miracle happened: I met Kara DioGuardi. Kara DioGuardi was also a gift She's an amazing songwriter, producer. Some of you may know her And our dance captain, &quot;You would love Kara - And we met. And she said to me, What is it that you want?&quot; And I said, &quot;Oh my gosh, Kara, I would love to be a songwriter. I would love to write, I don't do that. I don't read music like you do.&quot; And she says, &quot;I don't play instruments She asked me a question: &quot;Do you have something you want to say?&quot; And I said that I have a lot So she said, &quot;You know what? I'm going to write And she brought in and we wrote my first two songs. After that, I started coming to Nashville, and I met an incredible community here in this amazing town of yours. And it was in 2015, when I was working things that I had written, that I heard the words &quot;You have cancer.&quot; Couldn't believe it. You have cancer. I was doing a play on Broadway, And I thought to myself, &quot;This is what happens. Every day is one day at a time.&quot; But I also knew - even though I was going to have a bilateral mastectomy that there were some things (Laughter) And I had to ask myself &quot;What do I want?&quot; And so, I had some things that I wanted. I wanted to have I wanted to talk to my husband. And I told my husband that if I were to die before him, that I wanted him to be very sad (Laughter) and that I also wanted to have a party. I wanted to have a celebration. I wanted it to be about life and joy and having a good time! Because I had found joy. I was happy. I was happy to be alive. I was happy to be songwriting. I was happy to have found my passion. Now my parents, they came to this country. They exhibited enormous, enormous courage. My dad knew what he wanted. He wanted to be free. He wanted to live in America. My mom knew that she wanted Now I'm not at all equating to the risk of being able to say But sometimes it feels that way. When I sign CDs after a show, &quot;I can't believe you're doing this now. This is so incredible. I've always wanted to ... &quot; Because we get the message that you're joyfully saying, and somebody goes, &quot;You can't sing. You're tone-deaf.&quot; Or you're dancing, and everybody's like, Or you say to your parents, They say, &quot;If you're going to be a poet, And those dreams are squashed, and you're put into your corner, and you go off and you do something else. And maybe you're not that happy. And maybe that little dream And that, to me, was what I had found. I was lucky enough to find that Music gives me joy - I chose this picture because this is exactly what I feel like It is an exhilaration. It's never too late to find out At that songwriting camp that I did - you saw that picture with all I had this title of a song about what it was that I wanted if I were to go And I was able and lucky enough to write it with Kristian Bush I'm going to sing that song for you. But as we're setting up, I want you to think about Ask yourself that question. You may know it instantly. It may take you three months, But I want you to know to ask yourself that question: &quot;What do I do want?&quot; Thank you. (Applause)