'Barren,' a post-apocalyptic worldbuilding history where civilization ended in nuclear evolves to rule over the irradiated wastes A retro-future that calls to mind the worldbuilding a world where human survivors must contend folly. So, for this entry into the archive, we'll guide' of sorts to the creatures that roam And if you want to help support and build Patreon down below. Now, let's cross into an alternate timeline, We'll begin with the basics of mutant biology. In nature, animals change over time due to members of a species to better adapt to their The irradiated environments of Barren speeds As a result, animals in this alternate timeline speed. Just a few generations after the world's compared to their prewar ancestors. With evolution sent into overdrive, many familiar fierce competition. Beyond ambient fallout, the most extreme mutations illness called Nukrosis -- which subjects While the disease often results in advantageous lifespan -- making it more of a curse than The Nukrosis infection has become a widespread significant percentage of the postwar biosphere. The region we'll be exploring in this video Yet the green landscapes of old have been The people's spirit remains hopeful, however, Unbroken Kingdom." For among the small pockets of survivors, of the new world... In the new reality of the Unbroken Kingdom, domesticated animals unable to survive in Instead, new animals have assumed the role risen from the ashes. The mighty Bulwark are a widespread species what their horns and tusks might suggest. These mammals are related to prewar cows, and Highland cattle breeds. With adults known to weigh well over a ton, the tenacity needed to endure the unforgiving Taking a closer look at the Bulwark's hide, acts as a kind of natural body armor. While they retain the familiar pattern of hide is closer to that of an Old-World rhino. Postwar farmers rear Bulwarks on the fertile -- making the area one of the more prosperous Yet Bulwarks aren't the only new farm animal Kingdom. The uncanny Bonehens are a common sight in Their cretaceous-esque features make them the bonehen's spikes helping them stay cool Bonehens serve as the replacement for the much from their tame predecessors. Their beak is deceptively strong, designed for an easy source of protein. Comparing a Bonehen's feathers to the plumage that the Bonehen's feathers are significantly Their makeup is almost more akin to the hardened of a bird. Due to a shortage of food, the surviving government Bonehens as a source of sustenance. While eating a mutated species like a Bonehen times, the long-term effects of consuming Just beyond the fences, far more dangerous In some regions of the Unbroken Kingdom, hazard Zadger nests. Mid-sized predators, the Zadgers are a well-known Isles. With bone-crushing jaws and a poisonous barb bane of unwary travelers who stray too far Yet surprisingly, these deadly animals are which grew in size and ferocity to adapt to Modern Zadgers are almost entirely hairless, Closer analysis of their glabrous (glay-brus) to an amino acid substitution in a hair growth An analogous prewar mutation had occurred lack of visible fur; while unsettling in appearance, But in this world, with creatures like Zadgers mistake. And more frightening things than Zadgers have For woodland animals aren't the only things Some humans have been changed as well, transforming Characterized by their long frame, claws, of humanity -- known as the Nukula -- haunt The Nukula can vary in many ways -- with to become ambush predators. These slow Nukula hide in ruins of pre-war too deep. For the Nukulas still possess their human ensnare their unlucky victims. And in other parts of the Unbroken Kingdom, have emerged. Fearsome Nukula are faster and bulkier than Unlike their smaller counterparts, Fearsome their scavenger cousins. As a consequence of this lifestyle, the arms more heavily muscled -- and their hands now Their jaws and teeth have also evolved -- and hides of the tenacious animals that roam the Analysis suggests the Fearsome Nukula's While Nukrosis makes them apex predators, their numbers are few... A more common lifeform can be found a bit Dillo-pigs are animals that prove not all A pervasive species capable of reproducing the outskirts of settlements. Like prewar rodents, Dillo-Pigs proliferate for food. Unlike most prewar rodents, however, Dillo-Pigs backs to shield against the predators of the These hardened scales resemble the protective -- from which the Dillo-Pigs get their nickname. Dillo-Pigs are also known to create concealed into when threats arise. And with thousands of miles of abandoned piping plenty of room to make their burrows. Thankfully, the Dillo-Pig is one of the few pet-like due to their harmless nature and Those who make their homes in the ruins of animals. Goldwings are a species of city-dwelling bat Yorkshire. Despite their somewhat startling appearance, The descendants of prewar bats, they feed Their name comes from the golden hue of their against the ambient light of cities. Most Goldwings hunt by hanging off lampposts pests to run into the open -- only to end Because Goldwings feed on disease-carrying the government of the Unbroken Kingdom, and As a result, the hunting of any Goldwings offenders a hefty fine... Just beyond the outer limits of urban areas, The Rotfowl are massive birds that stand taller come their way -- no matter how rotten... Often seen feasting upon remains from local 'birds of war.' The descendent of a pre-war bird of prey, than their ancestors -- having converged Cassowaries of the old world. To match their unpleasant diet, their beaks Yet Rotfowl actually play a key role in decomposition Like vultures, the function they serve within is fundamental to various ecosystems. For Rotfowl don't just affect the health Studies of their migratory patterns indicate a year, roaming in large groups to other lands Genetic mutations are responsible for most Yet the greatest horrors of the wastes are by a company called Biophage. A clandestine organization with a long history begins long before the war started. Originally formed as a pharmaceutical corporation, over the decades. Everything changed, however, when Biophage businessman with no background in biology... Under his leadership, Biophage pivoted to bio-engineering. The exact nature of the early prewar company And perhaps that is for the best, for what Not long before the outbreak of the war, Biophage, experimenting with medical rejuvenation. Unit 1-51 would be one of these many attempts. Nicknamed 'Ankle Biters,' some of these successful, as the Ankle Biters were able Yet the result were lifeforms that could no Still, Biophage might have increased the scale collapse of prewar society. Yet not all experiments were destroyed during Some creations of Biophage escaped into the out a niche in the brutal new natural hierarchy. Today, perhaps no lifeform in the Unbroken Biophage experiment that stalks the open plains. Vespores are ruthless bioweapons capable of of life. While the original intention behind their experiment are visible to all. Vespores hunt with a stinger-like appendage Once an animal has been speared, the Vespore The internal anatomy of a Vespore allows them -- making them extremely efficient, as they The terrifying behavior of the Vespore coupled on an almost mythical status in the minds For not many see a Vespore and live to tell Aside from terrifying monsters, there is a It is hard not to read through the project has been lost. Bustling towns. Healthy forests. Clean rivers. Much of the world as it existed before the never return to normal. Yet the people of this alternate timeline strange fauna that now roam the wilderness. The Unbroken Kingdom might be an unfamiliar to endure, it will never be a broken one. There's much more to the 'Barren' project If you want to see more from the world of on his Patreon down below, to access bonus And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.