Down to hell: travelling The popular science fiction of the early 20th with pleasantly warm temperatures, forests, Park where someone already wanted to bring Today, Venus is unlikely to be perceived as a revealed by numerous missions in recent decades, Roughly the size of Earth, its surface is pressures 90 times greater than Earth's, an atmosphere of carbon dioxide and km per hour. Under the dazzling blanket planet comes little light to illuminate the It's all true... this planet is a hellish world corrosive, and frighteningly &quot;heavy&quot; atmosphere... here, aboard a HAVOC-type airship, which stands This is not the first aerostat to float since 2037 that NASA and ESA have started The plan is to use airships that can stay in aerostats are filled with oxygen and nitrogen, up the Venusian atmosphere and therefore large supply of breathable air for the crews. the one I'm in now, is as close to Earth's The atmospheric pressure at 55 km altitude and the temperature varies Incredible or not, under these conditions, I could non-pressurized, chemical-resistant suit! the layers of clouds give us good protection from sunlight to generate energy with photovoltaic The airship that is hosting me in these parts, but it will be the first to able to withstand the pressure and the heat If all goes well I will be the first man to step I will simply be the first to die on it. our lives has been very appropriately named Jacques Piccard to explore the bottom of the Descending into the atmosphere of Venus long dive into the depths of the ocean. friend Don Walsh, who will have the task of The probe basically consists of a measuring 2.54 meters in diameter. It is which is basically a light alloy of and heat. The heat from the outside is absorbed by and heat exchanger. Two onboard cameras face The sphere is attached to a carbon fiber balloon insulation. The balloon, 25 meters in diameter, is at the time of ascent. And that should allow us awaits us 50 kilometers higher up... the most dangerous part of the entire I will have to pass through the small compensation and with all the caution of this world try to time to collect some pebbles and some data March 15, 2042. We are already aboard the mother airship. We are ready to a certain amount of the gas contained calculates the ideal descent speed T= 0 - We are at an altitude of 100 km. thin layer of the atmosphere, practically The sky above us is absolutely black, a sign Despite this, the anemometer indicates that the An oddity that we still cannot understand. Earth days to complete a full revolution one day on Venus is as long as 243 days which on Venus is only 224 Earth days. Even so that the thick clouds that surround the planet circle. The fast-moving atmosphere transports where it is night, mitigating temperature There is still no certainty as to the real cause uncontrolled descent like ours it is necessary the wind will have on our final destination, Venera 7 landed on December 15, 1970, the T= 37 minutes - We leave the highest at times clearly visible, formed by tiny is -73degC and the winds are T=1h 53m - We proceeded to descend about of 70 km the fog began to thicken This is the sign that we are entering where the clouds that we can only see From where we are now, that is clouds can be seen very well. And they are scary. giant clusters of sulfur dioxide saturated with very unpleasant way. At times we are also hit most likely putting a strain on our materials. by the heat - only falls for a few kilometers. same as it would be on Earth in the high spring-like. We have reached the altitude where The wind, held back by the ever-increasing Lightning? If there were any it would be trouble electrical activity on Venus, widespread until Since the beginning of the HAVOC airship three occasions has the sighting of an electric Besides their composition, Venusian clouds differ formation. On our planet, they are formed as a the condensation of water vapor. The clouds the product of chemical reactions between sulfur T = 2h33m - Below 50 km altitude we come begins to rise sharply, reaching 110degC at 45 km, The temperature is so high that the again in sulfur dioxide and water vapor, From here on, up to 30 km, we descend much more composed of very dilute sulfur we can see the surface, while the winds decrease in intensity and slightly exceed 100 km per hour. see Venus as a rocky planet with a walkable Seen from here, the general coloration of more similar to that of Titan than that of Mars. where then something must have gone wrong... most of its history, then destroyed by the At some point in its history, the dense CO2 activity must have heated the planet; all the residual water vapor, condemning the T = 3h33m - At an altitude of 30 km, even after leaving the clouds disappears, and The external pressure is 22 times higher at 90 km per hour. But the most worrying thing and Don tells me that the lithium to show some discomfort. T = 4h14m - At an altitude of 10 km, Don the planned landing point and that we will at least 40 km. It doesn't matter, that would certainly not the main target of the mission. The temperature is at 392degC! The only 25 km per hour. T = 5h43m - Don has reduced his descent approaching the ground one meter per We are enchanted by the landscape that is the efficiency of the accumulator which is T = 5h45m - We have touched down. yet Don and I, without saying a word, incredulous satisfaction in front Outside the calm is absolute, We missed the Venera 7 site T = 5h47m - As planned, we now have to leave this seemingly peaceful hell. screws on my helmet. I close the airlock door Am I going or not? connected to the probe by a 15-meter cable that although on the ground the wind blows at 3 or exert an enormous thrust on the obstacles the ground seems to have been leveled and tiled? hatch and try to figure out how I feel. I get out, finally, and look around. The sunlight clouds quite effectively, illuminating the surface Earth on a day when the sky is overcast. of various sizes. I am not a geologist, typical magmatic effusive rocks, Among the rocks, there is also some I don't feel the heat, but I feel like that of a large hand trying to push With effort, I fill the front pocket I look up and all around me there is only this the horizon. A desolate, desert landscape. who is obviously watching me inside. I but inside I am suddenly afraid. Me, standing on the surface of another The viewer tells me I've been out for four the chamber and turn around for one last look. miss you in a minute, and I'm going Come on, let's get out of How Will We Journey to Mars? Mars, Mars, Mars... All everyone has been have a deep desire to explore and seek And when they set their minds to something, we've traveled across continents, sailed rockets to discover new lands and push the no challenge has been too impossible to overcome. tackled yet, and it's a big one: a journey from crew that lands on the Red Planet and takes the You might have heard of a show called The Expanse in recent years. It follows a crew of characters parts of our Solar System, from Earth to Mars uncover conspiracies, and fight danger. And while we're not quite at the the thrilling glimpse into what the future us the motivation to keep going. Can you imagine be incredible to be part of that journey and make way to the fourth planet from the Sun. Let's Previous Missions Mars? Mars is an interesting world that is covered its harsh conditions, Mars is a dynamic planet and features canyons and extinct volcanoes, on Earth. Scientists have even found evidence which is exciting to explore, and actually We have sent a few different types of learn more about it. The most advanced which just landed on Mars in February of 2021. planet and has the ability to take samples of the named Ingenuity that came along with Perseverance. on Mars. In fact, there are quite a few! country ever to successfully land a rover Mars by flying around it and taking images, Arab Emirates and a few others. The Hope probe is All of this exploration has taught scientists of evidence that it used to be much warmer and studying Mars will help us better understand scheme of our solar system? Artemis Missions To get to Mars, we first need to going from the moon to Mars is much easier Earth's gravity and thick atmosphere make once. It sure is nice to live on Earth, but it we don't have those problems. Living on the the moon would be the perfect place NASA's Artemis program has a long-term goal to use system. Missions 4 through 10 of the Artemis the moon. We'll find ways to use the resources to build new infrastructure. We'll also try to partners will keep exploring Mars with robots. fly around Mars and take pictures. NASA's next big Mars. The space station won't just be a stopping where astronauts can live for longer periods of bring back samples of Mars rock and soil. This help us learn even more about the Red Planet. plans to realize humanity's wildest dreams... getting everything ready right now. The first which will bring cargo to the moon in there will be the Artemis 11 mission which will will include a trip to the lunar surface. 12! This mission will bring the Mars one human which will have a crew of four people staying as the starting point to send humans to Mars! with the Mars one human Lander and travel vehicle that will be their home for 30 days on so they can explore the planet. It's important in the reduced gravity of Mars, it takes time to a long time in zero gravity environments. astronauts will make on their mission Space Travel think we would be getting people from Earth to something called a Transit Habitat which will stages to power the journey. This habitat will take them all the way to Mars and back again. tricky process. The most recent perseverance that's similar to how people return to Earth to slow its descent, but since the atmosphere provide a soft landing, the Rover had to Fun fact: two of the crew members will while the other two go down to the surface. go to Mars? One way is a short stay but involves a long and grueling 403 day return the spacecraft uses a gravitational boost The other way to go to Mars is a long stay Mars that takes 210 days to reach the red planet. requiring extensive planning and preparation only 210 days, which is shortened Of course, the current technology we have faster and smoother. However, NASA is always technology, so we may see faster and more Future Spacecrafts up to create a super cool spacecraft that engine! It's called the demonstration rocket short. This spacecraft will be able to travel and maneuver through space much more easily One major benefit of this new engine is that provide higher power for instrumentation and fission reactor to generate high temperatures, then used to propel the spacecraft.. This five times more efficient than traditional less time to get to places like Mars. Instead The Draco project is set to come online in less an experimental spacecraft by 2027 and will help an Earth-Moon economy. And who knows, maybe travel to Mars on a ship powered by the nuclear along the way, but we humans are optimistic in one place for too long and going to Mars is Recap-Outro our journey to Mars is a daunting task, but NASA's Artemis program is working hard to which will serve as a gateway to the rest of the Transit Habitat, a special spacecraft that propulsion stages to power the journey. but NASA has shown that it's possible with the Rover. The future of space exploration looks thermal rocket engine and the demonstration rocket see what discoveries await us on our journey Journey (without return) Mysterious, imposing and austere, Jupiter the entire Solar System. It is so large (140 put together all the other planets, including its mass. It is difficult to describe in words exerted over the centuries on entire generations On Jupiter everything is out of scale, starting a huge cyclone that rages in the atmosphere Like Saturn, Uranus and Neptune, Jupiter is and helium - and therefore has no A hypothetical descent into its atmosphere into the depths of the ocean. Although we we know just enough to imagine the wonderful astronaut would see if he tried to venture clouds as big as mountains, immense columns of that an entire ocean evaporates in the space of an is taken to the extreme, to characterize one of An environment that - few remember - we began time has in fact passed since the day the six-year journey. Among the main objectives of Medicean satellites and the Jovian magnetic field, for which was designed a small probe (called temperature and chemical composition. five months before meeting Jupiter, in July reached the gas giant together. The &quot;mother while the little one penetrated its atmosphere at in little more than two minutes it was slowed The descent lasted a total of 58 minutes, and arrived at 150 km of &quot;depth&quot;, reached conditions dissolved in the atmosphere of the planet. be of fundamental importance to understand upper layers of the Jovian atmosphere, but did However, nothing prevents us from putting together and fantasize about what we might see as we super pressurized suit. A dive that will allow us environments of the Solar System. En route to Jupiter! We are half a million and the approach phase is much longer than allowed by our propulsion system, yet it seems The outermost layers of its atmosphere begin several hours of travel, when we are still 200,000 planet, that is, from the top of its highest extends into the sky for about 40 degrees of the dense clouds of ammonia and hydrogen that the characteristic white, red and orange bands. subject to a differential rotation phenomenon. the gases that make up the upper layers of ammonia - move at different speeds depending creating the characteristic horizontal bands called &quot;zones&quot;, correspond to atmospheric while the lighter ones, the &quot;bands&quot;, are The Great Red Spot, so clean and geometric if so that after a few hours we find it hard to which from space seemed to us a single structure, whose circumvolutions reveal new and unexpected atmosphere. The mighty columns of gas emerging Jupiter resemble a huge pot full of bubbling from the surface the electromagnetic bombardment that we are forced to activate the special we would die of radiation poisoning within because of its fast rotation period the speed with core of the planet generates strong electric 20 thousand times more powerful than the emissions in huge bands of radiation, generating both for probes, whose instrumentation must 0 km. The descent begins! Continuing our journey the zero limit from which we begin to measure of an oceanic trench. The long descent to the we disengage from the spacecraft, and let gravity drag us towards the core. Jupiter generates a gravitational acceleration to avoid burning like a meteor we have to and in a few minutes our speed goes from 3200 that allows us to avoid any risk of supersonic -10 km. Among the mists of the Great Red Spot. the colors vary from bright red to mist that prevents us from pushing our But if we could do it we would the clouds that surround us, up to 45 km hydrogen, methane and ammonia crystals, would notice that ammonia covers the upper surface adding a hue of white to the dominant red color. of the Great Red Spot, we would see a over the surrounding clouds, almost as if -50 km. Lightning and turbulence. At the height at of the troposphere, the conditions of pressure on the surface of the Earth, but the winds over 560 kilometers per hour and the intensity field could still kill us in a few minutes, in the turbulence is deafening, because here the speed The sky is continuously crossed by violent times more powerful than those generated on Earth. sulfuric acid and ammonia, which due to the a speed three times faster than the Earth's -100 km. Goodbye to the light. After another five to 2 bar and we begin to cross a new layer of and ammonium hydrosulphide. The conditions of but at this moment we do not need any additional Although the weight of the air above us the relatively low fall rate allows the cavities without generating undesirable effects. reaches 4 bar, a value corresponding to what we a depth of 30 meters, while the temperature the first clouds of frozen water and in the decrease. The speed of the winds rises to 720 because the level of turbulence in the atmosphere and the pressure rises to 10 bar. At this point, have to modify the air mixture supplied by the minutes we would encounter an oxygen poisoning, the two gases become toxic. Let's take a last disk of the Sun disappearing in the orange fog. to get complicated. The special protective a temperature above 100 degrees Celsius, accompanied by enough atmospheric pressure to in darkness and we can no longer distinguish the density and chemical composition of air: ammonium sulfide and traces of water vapor, electromagnetic radiation coming from the Sun. Our -20,000 km. Gases become liquid. We continue density, while incandescent helium is raining starting to behave like liquids: if we had to and vaporized in a split second. Now we are are in relation to Jupiter's core, because gradual that we can not realize the change in we notice a faint luminescence caused by the now almost completely formed by liquid hydrogen as on the surface of the Sun. The pressure rises the atmospheric density has exceeded the one thousand kilograms per cubic centimeter. being less dense than the matter around it, can no longer sink. If we want to continue we the suit and start to descend slowly again. here on, and for several hours, the journey dominate, and the monotony is interrupted only the deepest regions of the planet. difficult. After a time that seems endless, the darkness is torn by a web of lightning that of lightning branches out following a very the way electricity propagates in the water. We hydrogen! Under normal conditions of pressure and exceeds a certain critical point it turns into a viscous liquid and conducts electricity like are nothing compared to those that cross this and temperature have reached such high levels -60,000 km. The core! No matter how hard we is the core of Jupiter, an extremely dense times the Earth's one: astronomers believe the heaviest elements of the planet, such as with a considerable amount of hydrogen. To be able to survive pressures four million temperatures of over 35 thousand degrees: After all, it is only thanks to the latter stay here forever, held as we are by a gravity well from which no means of propulsion, no matter Is Saturn a real planet? I'm Some weird rumors are going around about Pluto got the boot, some folks raised an make distinctions about what features a &quot;real&quot; put &quot;out of the game&quot; too. Yeah, because there's to be called a planet, you should From this perspective, Pluto would be more and Neptune. Those gas giants, you see, are of gas gathered around small solid cores, at What do you think? Do you agree that of their own, just like poor Pluto? star - we'll take this chance to give you a see if they wanted to dive into the deep way to its solid core. enjoy this one-way Beyond Mars and Jupiter, after nearly one emerges in all its glory one of the Saturn, with its unmistakable ring system. is mostly composed of gas - specifically, hydrogen for a potential landing. An imaginary descent extraordinarily long dive into the depths of an we know enough to envision the marvelous would witness if they dared to venture into clouds as large as mountains, immense lightning so powerful it could evaporate an entire phenomenon is pushed to the extreme, defining one The &quot;Lord of the Rings,&quot; after all, is has ignited our imagination and curiosity to dream of owning a telescope to see if such And of course, astronomers, motivated by dreams gone to great lengths to observe this gas giant vicinity. In 1997, a probe named Cassini departed of travel, it began orbiting Saturn in 2004. Over images along with an incredible amount of On September 15, 2017, Cassini met its and scientists decided to plunge it into Saturn's if left on its own, from crashing into one of harbor life - thus avoiding contamination. Before to eliminate any terrestrial contamination, Poor Cassini didn't last long as it began its to send any images of its final dive. It likely clouds. Cassini is the second human-made object the Galileo probe met a similar fate, destroyed And what if we sent a person into Saturn? long enough to tell the tale, but guided by we're about to narrate an extraordinary story. different from our beautiful blue planet. It's Earth, ten times larger, and nearly a hundred brother Jupiter, Saturn has distinct differences, There are several reasons why Saturn's One reason is that Saturn is twice as far from light. This results in significantly lower less dynamic atmosphere. Additionally, Saturn's than Jupiter's, further reducing the amount Saturn's density is incredibly low, less it in a large enough basin, it would float! Its consisting of 96% hydrogen, the rest being or methane. Naturally, pressure and temperature with the vast amount of gas generating immense But we don't want to spoil the journey You find yourself half a million kilometers approach phase is proving to be much longer than allowed by our propulsion system, yet it seems The outer layers of Saturn's atmosphere fully of travel, even though you're still 200,000 clouds. The entire planet's disk now spans about and the entire ring system extends over Lower down, you can already discern in detail in parallel around the equator, albeit much The moment has arrived. Your spacecraft hovers at challenging position to maintain. After your dissuade you from the suicidal mission, and you find yourself propelled outside. The remaining orbital speed with the suit's plunge towards the planet's center commence. the first kilometers of descent, visibility is the magnificent rings stand out in all their realize they extend tens of thousands of dozen meters thick, occupy a significant portion see more clearly the imposing clouds of ammonia very cold, with temperatures hovering around -190 end here if not for the superhero-like So, you continue to enjoy the fall without not much higher than on Earth (about seven much different from a free fall on our planet. the thick clouds of ammonia crystals. and the light becomes dimmer. As you and your falling speed decreases due to friction. you exit the first layer of clouds, and what to seem like paradise compared to what is hydrosulfide clouds, and everything around you the clouds and the sunlight struggling to filter times higher than on Earth, and temperatures rise After three hours of descent, you've penetrated but this is nothing compared to the almost 60,000 falling; it's so dark that you can't even see your hundred kilometers per hour. Without protection, the ammonia and hydrosulfide clouds, but your After another half-hour, you find yourself problem: you're about to exit the ammonia layer, experiences some of the most powerful winds in the speeds of 1,800 kilometers per hour, over four In other words, you'll likely be whipped by a away like dry leaves during Hurricane Katrina. another 300 kilometers or so, you have reached and an unexpectedly almost familiar panorama similar to terrestrial thunderstorms! Earth's surface, and the temperature has reached direction by enormous and terrifying lightning fearsome storm towers. Provided your suit has shielded you from the brace yourself because if what you've faced so far You've just left behind clouds that are when immersed in darkness after about 400-500 first to 20 degrees, then a hundred, and finally truly extreme. The pressure keeps increasing; you is around you is getting denser, while your extremely high pressure, insane temperatures: that is becoming so dense that it turns into You start to see something again, and everything incandescence. The density is so extreme that system, you'll be condemned to float for at over 5000 degrees and subjected to pressures Needless to say, you would die horribly your suit is truly magical. If it is, the and all you need to do is activate the thrusters As you continue to plunge deeper into the abyss reach values increasingly inconceivable at pressures over two million times that of than those found on the solar surface: over matter can become truly strange, and scientists deeper we go, the more extraordinary they become. at pressures over two million times that of than those found on the solar surface: over matter can become truly strange, and scientists deeper we go, the more extraordinary they become. metal: you're literally floating in a sea radiant! The atoms have been compressed so just like a liquid metal and not a gas. This responsible for Saturn's powerful magnetic also an extraordinary conductor of electricity: At this point, you have plenty of options: you or being torn apart by immense pressure. But by and allows you to continue for another 15,000 it would probably take years (by the way, traverse the immense ocean of metallic hydrogen After almost 50,000 kilometers, your you've reached Saturn's planetary core and the almost twice the size of Earth, composed of of other materials we might never imagine because You find yourself &quot;walking&quot; (figuratively &quot;surface&quot; of a gas giant, with a temperature million times higher than Earth's. This is mass of dust and ice that, 4.5 billion years gas it encountered along its orbital path. in your mind before falling forever into total those who say that gas giants have no right to