- [Derek] This tiny robot mouse can finish this maze in just six seconds. (dramatic music) Every year, around the world, people compete in the The goal is simple: get to the end of the - The person who came second (announcer chattering) lost by 20 milliseconds. - [Derek] But competition - When somebody saw my design, - [Derek] Why is there so much Honor? (audience applauding) (audience cheering) - [Derek] This video is In 1952, mathematician an electronic mouse named The trick to making the mouse intelligent was hidden in a computer made of telephone relay switches. The mouse was just a magnet following an electromagnet controlled by the position of the relay switches. - [Claude] He is now exploring the maze using a rather involved As he finds the correct path, he registers the Later, I can put him down in any part of the maze and he'll be able to without making a single false turn. - [Derek] Theseus is often referred to as one of the first examples A director at Google recently said that it inspired the whole field of AI. 25 years later, editors at the Institute of Electrical and Electronics caught wind of a contest or le mouse electronique, They were ecstatic. Were these But something had been These mice were just batteries in cases, not robots capable of But the misunderstanding stuck &quot;Why couldn't we hold that In 1977, the announcement for IEEE's Amazing Micro-Mouse Maze Contest attracted over 6,000 entrants, but the number of successful Eventually, just 15 entrants But by this point, the contest had garnered to be broadcast nationwide And just like the rumor that Micromouse began to Micromouse, is for the taking Micromouse, is here and now Take a chance, and start creating (upbeat music) - A Micromouse? - [Group] Micromouse! (audience applauding) - Even people in the top two or three, you can see them trying and they can barely find because it's absolutely nerve-racking. (suspenseful music) It doesn't matter what it it could be motor racing, If you have a shred of you'd wanna win, right? - [Derek] Just like a real mouse, a Micromouse has to be fully autonomous. No internet connection, and no nudging it to help it get unstuck. It has to fit all its computing, motors, sensors, and power supply in a frame no longer or wider than 25 centimeters. There isn't a limit on but the rules don't allow climbing, flight, or any forms of combustion, so rocket propulsion, for (audience cheering) (announcer chattering) The maze itself is a square subdivided by walls into corridors only 18 centimeters across. And in 2009, the half-size Micromouse with mice smaller than 12 and paths just nine centimeters across. The final layout of the at the start of each competition, after which competitors are not allowed to change the code in their mice. (announcer speaking in Japanese) (audience cheering) The big three competitions, All Japan, Taiwan, and USA's APEC, usually limit the time to seven or 10 minutes, and mice are only allowed five runs from the start to the goal. - So if you spend a lot of time - Makes sense. So the strategy for most Micromice is to spend their first run and looking for the best path to the goal, while not wasting too much time. Then they use their remaining tries to sprint down that path for (audience applauding) Solving a maze may sound simple enough, though it's important to remember that, with only a few infrared sensors for eyes, the view from inside the than what we see from above. Still, you can solve a If you just put one hand along one wall, you will eventually reach And that's exactly what some initial Micromouse competitors realized, too. And after a simple wall-following mouse took home gold in the first finals, the goal of the maze was and free-standing walls were added, which would leave a simple wall-following mouse searching forever. Your next instinct might taking note of every fork in the road. Whenever you reach a dead end or a loop, you can go back to the last intersection and try a different path. If your last left turn got you nowhere, you'd come back to that You can think of this strategy as the one a headstrong mouse might use, running as deep into the maze as it can, and turning back only when This search strategy, known will eventually get the mouse to the goal. The problem is, it might because the mouse only so it may have missed a The sibling to this search would find the shortest path. With this strategy, the mouse runs down one until it reaches the next one, and then it goes back to before moving on to the So the mouse checks but all that backtracking means that it's rerunning At this point, even searching the whole So why not just do that? A meticulous mouse could search testing every turn and corner to ensure it has definitely found the shortest path. But searching so thoroughly Instead, the most popular is different from all of these techniques. It's a search algorithm This mouse's plan is to make optimistic journeys through the maze, so optimistic, in fact, their map of the maze doesn't They simply draw the shortest When their optimistic plan inevitably hits a wall that wasn't on their map, they simply mark it down and update their new Running, updating, running, updating, always beelining for the goal. Under the hood of the algorithm, what the Micromouse is is the distance from every To travel optimistically, of decreasing numbers down to zero. Whenever they hit a wall, they update the numbers on their map to reflect the new shortest This strategy of following the numerical path of least resistance gives the flood fill algorithm its name. The process resembles and updating values based on the flow. Once the mouse reaches the goal, it can smooth out the path it took and get a solution to the maze. However, it may look back uncharted path it could've taken. The mouse might not be satisfied that it's found the While this algorithm isn't guaranteed to find the best path on first pass, it takes advantage of need to return to the start So if the mouse treats its it can use the return trip Between these two attempts, the shortest path from start to finish, it's extremely likely that and the mouse will have often leaving irrelevant areas of the maze entirely untouched. Flood fill offers both an for Micromice to find the Once there was a clear strategy and once the microcontrollers and sensors required to implement it became common, some people believed As a paper published in IEEE put it, &quot;At the end of the 1980s, the Micromouse Contest The problem was solved, and did not provide any new challenges.&quot; (people chattering) In the 2017 All Japan both the bronze-and silver-placing mice found the shortest path to they were able to zip along (audience applauding) But Masakazu Utsunomiya's did something entirely different. This is the shortest path to the goal, the one that everyone took. This is the path that Red Comet took. It's a full 5 1/2 meters longer. That's because Micromice for the shortest path, they're searching for the fastest path. And Red Comet's search that this path had fewer So even though the path was longer, it could end up being faster. So it took that risk. (announcer speaking in Japanese) (audience applauding) - [Derek] It won by 131 milliseconds. (upbeat music) Differing routes at competition are now more common than not, and even just getting to whether due to a mysterious algorithm or a quirk of the physical maze. (audience laughing) - [Commentator] The corner, Whoa! (commentator speaking in Japanese) - [Derek] Micromice don't (competitor speaking in Japanese) (upbeat music) Micromouse is far from solved, because it's not just a software problem or a hardware problem, it's both. It's a robotics problem. Red Comet didn't win because it had a better search algorithm or because it had faster motors. Its cleverness came from how the brains and body of the mouse interacted together. - So it turns out solving It never was the problem, right? But it's actually about navigation, and it's about going fast. - Every year, the robots get There is still plenty of innovation left. And there's a small group busy building quarter-size Micromouse which would sit on a quarter. (commentator speaking in Japanese) - [Derek] Nearly 50 years on, Micromouse is bigger than ever. (commentator speaking in Japanese) (audience cheering) - [Derek] Competitions at first glance before. The high jump was an with competitors refining their jumps using variations like the and the straddle over the But once foam padding became Dick Fosbury rewrote the sport in 1968 by becoming the first Olympian to jump over the pole backwards. Now almost every high jumper does what's known as the Fosbury flop. If Micromouse had indeed the competition would've two innovations that completely After all, a lot can change can solder on any The first Fosbury flop was one of the earliest and had nothing to do with technology. It was simply a way of or rather, cutting through the box. Every mouse used to (Micromouse whirring) But everything changed - So Mitee Mouse 3 implemented (people chattering) And that turned out to than we really thought. And because it's cool, you know, maze designers often put So, you know, you could end up with a maze but most of the time - [Derek] In order to pull off diagonals, the chassis of the mouse had to be reduced to less than 11 centimeters wide, or just five centimeters The sensors and software of When you're running all you have to do is between your left and But a diagonal requires one that essentially guides the mouse as if it had blinders on. - Normally, if you're going or something like that, most of the time you can And so that helps you to guide yourself, and you know when you're getting off. But in the diagonal situation, you just see these walls coming at you. - [Derek] And if you veer snagging a corner is a lot less forgiving than sliding against a wall. Diagonals are still one of crashes in competition today. But in exchange, a jagged path of turns transforms into one narrow straightaway. - [Commentator] Oh! Whoa! (audience applauding) (audience cheering) - [Derek] These days, nearly is designed to take this risk. Cutting diagonals opened up Around the same time, mice were applying similar Instead of stopping and pivoting a mouse could sweep around And once the possibility the total number of possible The maze was no longer just With so many more options to weigh, figuring out the best path But the payoff was dramatic. What was once a series of stops and starts could now be a single, How Micromice imagined had changed completely. (audience cheering) Available technology was getting upgrades over the years as well. Tall and unwieldy arms that were replaced by a smaller array of infrared sensors on board the mouse. Precise stepper motors were traded in for continuous DC motors and encoders. - The DC motors give you more power for less size and weight, and so we were interested in doing that. So then you have to have a servo. You have to actually have to make it do the right thing. - [Derek] Gyroscopes added an It's like a compass, if you - They came about cause so the technology provides people with things which weren't there before. All of the turning is rather than counting because it's much more reliable. - [Derek] But even with all the biggest physical issue for Micromice went unaddressed for decades. One thing you'll see almost is a roll of tape. Once you know to look for This tape isn't for repairs It's to gather specs of dust off the wheels in between rounds. At the speed and precision that tiny change in friction If you wanna turn while driving fast, you need centripetal force to And the faster you're moving, the more force you need The only centripetal force for a car turning on flat ground is friction, which is determined by two things, the road pushing up the weight of the car, or the normal force, multiplied by the static which is the friction of the interface between the tire and road surface. This is why racetracks have banked turns. The steep angles help cars because part of the normal to contribute to the If the banked turn is steep enough, cars can actually make the turn The inward component of the to provide the centripetal (upbeat music) Micromice are no different, and they don't have banked turns to help. As they got faster and their limiting factor was no longer speed, but control of that speed. They had to set their and slow down during turns to avoid slipping into But unlike race cars, there to stop Micromouse competitors by engineering an entirely new mechanism. Micromouse's second Fosbury flop was almost considered a gimmick when the mouse Mokomo08 You might be staring at but you won't. Instead, it's something you'll hear. (Micromouse whirring) That isn't the mouse revving its engines. It's spinning up a propeller. And while flying over the there's nothing in the vacuuming itself to the - Dave Otten was the first person I saw put a fan on a mouse, but he used a ducted fan, and I think he was really looking you know, blowing the thing down. He had a skirt around, but it Forgive me for saying this, though. The idea is to let as And like your vacuum cleaner, when you block your vacuum cleaner, right, the motor unloads and speeds But if you let too much air And these are just quadcopter motors, and they draw a lot of current. - [Derek] At the scale of often just built from is enough to generate a downward force five times the mouse's weight. Wow. Okay. That's impressive. So how much does the car actually weigh? - About 130 grams. And if you listen, I don't know if you'll get (motor whirring) - Oh yeah. the motors slow down, and it loads up. - [Derek] With that much friction, Micromice today can turn corners with a centripetal acceleration That's the same as F1 cars. (engines revving) Once nearly everyone equipped fans, the added control allowed builders to push the speed limit on Micromice. - When it's allowed to, it will out-accelerate a Tesla Roadster, but not for very far. (Derek laughs) - [Derek] And they can zip along at up to seven meters per second, faster than most people can run. (audience laughing) (Micromouse whirring) (audience cheering) Every one of the features now standard on the modern Micromouse and the next Fosbury flop The first four-wheeled Micromouse to win the All Japan but it would take another 22 years of the winning mouse growing before four-wheeled mice became the norm. With Micromice still experimenting in six- and eight-wheel designs, omnidirectional movement, who knows what the next - [Commentator] Your time only when you leave the start square, so he's not penalized - [Derek] But if you wanna you don't need to worry about or even diagonals. - It is, to my mind, of all the major disciplines that you need for robotics and embedded systems, all wrapped up in one accessible bundle that you can do in your living room, and you don't need a laboratory to run it. You come along because you're &quot;I could do that. That And then you're doomed, really. If it sucks you in, it turns (commentator speaking in Japanese) (audience cheering) - [Derek] At its core, Micromouse is just about a Though, nearly 50 years later, it's a simple problem there is no such thing Micromouse, is for the taking Micromouse, is here and now Take a chance, and start creating Micromouse, will show you how (logo beeping) - If you wanna build your own Micromouse, you'll likely need to design parts using a 3D CAD program like Onshape, the sponsor of this video. Onshape is a modern CAD plus PDM system designed for businesses, and completely free for Any serious hardware product in order to be successfully from a Micromouse model like this one to a professional V2 Unlike traditional CAD programs, which are installed on premises, Onshape was built entirely in the cloud, which allows engineering and design teams to collaborate like never before. Onshape allows you to on the same design with multiple users, just like Google Docs. This completely eliminates the need for emailing large files back and forth and trying to keep track of who whether it's V2 or V22. With Onshape, Agile methodologies that are common in software development are now being adopted to allow companies to build Onshape's not only great for businesses, but also for open source projects, or just working on Again, it's totally free for hobbyists, so you can try it out for at onshape.pro/veritasium. You can take Onshape You don't need a powerful desktop or a specific operating system to run it. Whether you're on a Mac or PC, or even just on your phone, So to get started, sign up for free at onshape.pro/veritasium. I wanna thank Onshape for and I wanna thank you for watching.