The Golden Age of Islam. Beginning in the 8th blooming knowledge, and a newfound Throughout this time it was the city of Baghdad Golden Age, and of globally recognized learning people, countless libraries packed full of to be studied by scholars from around the world desired attractions to see once these foreigners Wisdom. It was the largest library in the entire contemporary advances in artistry, literature, rulers, the Abbasid Caliphate, subsidizing come to the city for studies, it seemed that there Islam was truly a sight to behold. But tragically, In Baghdad's final years of glory, it was its capital. The Abbasids were the third since the life of the Prophet Muhammad in the mid-8th century. Their name derived and the empire would rapidly grow to reach from of course, Iraq, and even farther. The Abbasids but when the Mongols came knocking, The Mongols were very different than the Abbasids. nomadic, pastoral people. They scarcely settled frequent conflict with more settled societies the Mongols were known for a particularly unique so pesky as to inspire the construction of the with many terror tactics, and if anyone ever heard bells, it could quickly be assumed that they were they usually would offer an option of surrender if this offer was declined, mass destruction And while the Mongols weren't settlers, they roaming peoples with more space. Thus, when a man the name Genghis Khan, a chain reaction occurred When the grandson of Genghis the Mongol Empire really began to expand. Hulagu working to secure his grip on the lands of the the Mongols into direct conflict with a Shi'ite Hulagu managed to vanquish. His next obstacle, Over the years and caliphs, the Abbasids and militarily. They had become no strangers but the current caliph, al-Mustasim, wasn't too the caliph had already heard rumors of Hulagu's convinced of the real threat that approached - The problem with this grand vizier, however, was which flew in the face of his ruler's. This was decrees passed, the caliph had deeply offended vizier included. It is thus believed by many that one to not only welcome the idea of a Mongol this was the case or not is still up for debate, for one reason or another, wildly underestimated Al-Mustasim's first clue that his counterpart the caliph a letter demanding his and the city of Caliph al-Mustasim replied with an ultimatum: go The problem was that the caliph believed that the together to defend Baghdad if the Mongols ever he would soon learn, was not true. Thus, on Mongols laid siege to the great city of knowledge The Abbasids had a weakened and poorly their attackers. Compared to what the caliph was lukewarm in its response. And the Mongols for al-Mustasim to reconsider his earlier attitude Mongol Khan denied the caliph's pleas. When it was only a one-time offer, and that one On February 10, 1258, Caliph al-Mustasim and for the next 3 days, nothing happened. grew with each hour, but their anxiety would be On February 13, Hulagu and The Mongols gave one warning on their way into Christians, whom Hulagu gave this message: lock was his promise, likely because his own mother and they obeyed, his men would not harm them. For the A week of pillage, and bloodshed the city were spared. Roughly 3,000, to be a couple of theories can be According to one story, al-Mustasim was imprisoned if the Travels of Marco Polo are to be believed, much as thou wilt, since thou art so fond of it". died of starvation. But, this nonetheless Hulagu believed that the spilling of royal blood consequences in the form of natural disasters. his own expensive rugs, as to catch any spillage, the last ruler of the Islamic Golden Age and its The death toll of the entire catastrophe 90,000 to 1 Million including the army and civilian men, women, and children. and what was left was set ablaze and burnt ran red with blood from the massacre. That is, thousands of books and manuscripts into the Tigris now turned black from the ink of the House of Wisdom and all its precious contents, The siege and subsequent destruction of the Abbasids. It was more, even, than it was a tragic calamity upon the whole of knowledge, art, and so much more had come to texts no one again will ever read. Centuries of at least not in the way they could have been. of a growing world and life for people around study at its House of Wisdom. And one, that