Open your Bible to Second Samuel chapter 13 of this message are on YouVersion Bible or rewatching this message they will be in video. Second Samuel chapter 13 verse 1 and 2. And notes and the verse is right behind us. Let's read After this Absalom, the son of David, had a lovely of David loved her. Amnon was so distressed over a virgin and it was improper for Amnon to I'm going to speak this morning, before Obsessive love anybody who gets obsessed with Amnon was so obsessive of his that made him sick. You know It's sick love. Somebody said six characteristics without you. Obsessive love is when a person Some of you know somebody. When a person ignores that's not real love that's that's unhealthy school, skipping on their responsibilities that when a person shows jealousy toward any activity is when a person follows, you checks up on you, and a person begins with intense emotions flattery possessive of you. And that kind of obsessive love that is not God's love and that is not God's in the Presence of God. Thank Amnon, in the Scripture, at this story that we David is about 53 years of age and Tamar is 15 Amnon, his oldest son, is 22 and Tamar, Tamar is his half sister. Amnon has such a passion her that he becomes sick. He is a prince. He nation of Israel. He is the crown king but he has realize is that the devil used that passion that You must understand your friends is that becomes a prisoner of his passion. Your passion is should control you. You should become a ruler of Because every person in this room I believe, like in that? Do you believe you're not an accident is not David but your dad is the King of Kings He says I have a plan and a future. Somebody say also a royal priesthood, chosen generation. You devil knows that you are a threat to his kingdom back from reaching your destiny is he will allow to have a demon rule your life as long as your He lost a palace because he couldn't control controlled his passions and he got to the palace. your palace. The Bible says in Thessalonians, on the 1st Thessalonians chapter 4 verse 3. On the of God, your sanctification: that you should abstain know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification who do not know God. Whether you are in prison for you is to possess your passion. You may say how will be surprised. Sometimes if you don't know what God's will is for the future of your life- this is God's will for you. Possess your feelings. of your lust, otherwise whatever destiny gifts or blessings you have will be squandered Amnon lost it all. Never became a king. Died next coming king, but because he was a prisoner in the royal palace. I believe that we have a that from a young age we indoctrinate a young they're monkeys and I think it does disservice it's scientific. There's no scientific- there's The problem with that is this: is animals have sexuality. If you teach a generation long enough That's why our schools no longer teach condoms and they teach safe sex. Why? Because if you they can't act like humans. They can't act like improvise for their animal lifestyle. Animals date mate and relate. Animals don't have and when we teach a generation and say that you next thing that happens is you have to teach them rule their sexuality. But the church has the other animals which are flesh without spirit, the Church you're supposed to be like angels but angels they so they don't have sexuality. So we have these into the religious system that teaches to deny much you pray and fast, unless you have the that is given to you. You shouldn't deny it or human. You should rule your sexuality. Possess You don't want to be an angel but you got sexuality. Don't live like a monkey. Live like And what makes you different than a dog, than in the image and likeness of God. God placed dominion over the creation. He made the animals and He made them after their kind, he made you after is something about you that's different on this earth is you possess God-likeness to control your feelings, your urges, Somebody say Amen. And so Amnon didn't control He was controlled by them and because of that whether you're a Christian or not, you're made in by God imported into you, a power that that it's going to become difficult but one thing chapter 13 we read it started chapter 13 started After what? after what? After this. If you not mistaken, David commits adultery with he gets caught. The prophet comes into him and says For those of you who maybe don't remember, the husba- the woman's husband and the prophet a sword will come into your house and people in your family because you open the door to through murdering an innocent life. After this, his with the 15 year old. Little did Amnon didn't start with him. He inherited it. I they started in a generational bloodline. oh no, but sometimes you gotta know where the water Sometimes you gotta know where that A lot of the battles we are facing today are not, we can't control what has been passed on You cannot control what your family, your ancestors you and I are responsible for what we activate. Can a duplex of the first year of our marriage, the lawn. It looked like a halloween maze over there. were probably wild animals that lived there. It was my lawnmower. I had the push lawnmower at the feet because it was so high out there. Now I had bad owner look what he passed on to me such he's this and that I could blame him and Blaming your mom and dad for not being there right now you know yeah it might make you feel anything but the second option that I had to do rid of that big grass and then trying to weed to few years, when I sold that property, it looked good. Amnon had inherited a very bad lawn from his had to do is to get a lawnmower and start getting and start taking care of it to pass on to his Maybe something got passed on to you. Maybe the same thing that's happening in your family. I want is on your side and you are not responsible for what you're gonna do with it. Are you gonna cry push the lawnmower and start sowing some seeds he didn't realize he was in a spiritual sexual sins have demons behind them. Behind Tomatoes don't grow on their Behind every repeated sexual sin is a demon is a Philistine hiding behind the couch waiting in Judges chapter 16 afterwards it happened If you're in a valley, it's not a good time to fall And he fell in love in the valley. That's why in prison, he waited to get to the palace. whose came up to Delilah and said to her, &quot;Entice and by which means we can overpower him, that we will give you 1100 pieces of silver.&quot; Can i tell you Pornography gets a very good compensation for adultery is sponsored by the devil. It's, it's, it's your feelings. There are Philistines behind the experiencing what you're experiencing, there are thing so that they can entice you, trap you, and to you you'll do that to them. Demons know you're Demons know your future more than you know your They will use a sexual sin. They will utilize they it but today we've come to serve the devil a We're not going to fall for lust. Why? Because we a destiny. We will live in purity even though we and the Spirit of him who raised Jesus lives Do you mean that if I fall into the same sexual you probably are demonized. Demonized is being by a demon. It doesn't mean that you're owned you're controlled by a demon? It's very simple. It's okay let me word it better for When the person comes in and says Now, demons cannot have Christians. Holy It's not play of words. You can be oppressed but a demon and how do you know where that demon is area is that? It's the one you don't control. Have control in this area&quot; For example, somebody blows up or they say, &quot;I don't know what happens to me. I lose area you lose control over, it is the area somebody it on this and that, your personality. You have lust, if you lose control in the area of anger, if know what happens to you, now you know. You didn't It doesn't mean that Holy Spirit doesn't live in It just simply means that a demon in that area overcome. You can fight, but see you can't fight stop shadowboxing. You gotta know that this thing from the devil and I gotta cut that off. I gotta battle in the spiritual realm. To win a battle When they asked Eskimo tribes on how they to catch a wolf is not easy, but they had and dip a knife in blood few times, have the have the blood dry up and you know wolves when They can't think straight and they would knife in something strong and tie it up and and let the blood manipulate the nature He doesn't even think. He doesn't- his eyes no He would come and he would start licking the the time he realizes that it's a knife it's too and then the wolf would die. The devil will horns because you know what that will make Devil is afraid of that. He won't do that. He's not with the fork, when you're walking down the alley You're going to start praying, you're going to He will never use something that will make you What are those things? It's things that we don't porn image, we don't see a demon behind it. We what it's going to lead to. We see a flirtation tribes, there is demonic tribes that are behind of your passion. A possessor of your passion that If you don't control your eyes, satan will take them. he saw he saw he saw he saw he saw too much and Control your eyes or the devil will control them. going to lust for a look at the young virgin. What decision. I possess my body, my body doesn't possess don't possess me. And if there's something so I seek spiritual help. but can I also mention verse 2 of chapter 13 that he was sick over his Improper means it was not right for Amnon to date Dude his half-sister you you're crazy or what? and she's 15 for crying out loud. In those days, things were a little bit different. for people to date, marry within their family so they couldn't do that. So what do you do when you I know you probably don't have this problem but that God's Word is very clear &quot;not good&quot;. Well your told you this is not good for you. They're not a or or something else, but you have strong feelings you're not a follower of Jesus Christ, what do take control. Why? Because in Christians, God is what love wants, love gets. There are people in the United States. There is a person that's This is real. You can google it. You know marry a man because of love, why can't I marry a Why? Anytime you make love a because anything you love becomes My God is love, but love is not God. Can somebody believer, now if you're not a believer for the same sex or you you know honestly you can do are your own god, so whatever you come up with- whatever you come up with, honestly, I stand aside for swimming and fish fish for swimming, birds don't judge sinners for sinning. It's who they who submitted and whose God is not you but the but the one who died on a cross, then you your sexuality to your spirituality, your feelings Why? Because you have a God and he is your is a good moment. I want to switch the camps. I God to tell me what to do. Remember, if you make Good luck! Most of you will realize by and when you die you realize you're a horrible try to control your life. See the best thing is that yes, sometimes our flesh wants to do know and maybe brings a little pain to our flesh we we meet my wife we have a dog and they've done olfactory receptors- we have six million- so dogs, analyzes the smell, is 40 times bigger than in dog is 40 times bigger than mine and they have only 6 million so you can imagine one thing when a never ever be able to comprehend so because of and his smell, for example, our dog he doesn't he doesn't. He doesn't differentiate between they made waffle for a previous internship. They Saul left the waffle on the on the kitchen and he marked all the stacks of waffles. On every them. It's been about seven months. I'm just kidding. He marked all of them. Now it tasted good, it smelled He laid there- he couldn't move. She thought he Mondays is when Jacko doesn't eat- he lies sick we take him to my parents house he eats from our he lets his urge and his senses tell him Therefore he has people that care And the leash that we have on him, it's not because on him it's not because we want to kill him, it's because we know if we don't control those urges he your biology. Put it on. Control yourself. Control If you let your sexuality run rampant, you will financial life, you will kill your physical your life because you have to allow your your faith to put a leash on your feelings, You can't let it run around rampant. Why? Because Amen. And so what Amnon needed to do is Amnon needed Hey! I got some generational things attacking know what God says? It's not good but I like her. She's only 15. I'm embarrassed to even say that. but my flesh says I want it. God my passion, this excitement raging in my body, I All it took was that kind of a prayer. Submit yourself to God and then resist the devil if you're struggling with feelings for someone, feelings for, can I just tell you something it's you something? You were fashioned by God to possess now can you be real with god and come and talk to one time and not just cry in the pillow after Christ and say, &quot;God i'm battling with it. I'm sick this to you. Help me God&quot;? Sometimes just crying out, can you are you with me? See they say that you cannot deactivate. For example, the color of you can't deactivate it. There is nothing surgery or you go dye your hair but naturally your genes like characteristics from your family experiences, choices, and your associations. and associations&quot; So we already said choice. When you realize that what you're feeling is is associations. I want you to see one thing The curse that Amnon was battling with indulging in his lust he would have cried out to is wrong but I feel it. But the second thing that Amnon did not go to the right people for help. He He had a crazy cousin Jonadab who had a lust problem instead of saying, &quot;Hey dude! Snap king you really want to lose your life over a 15 all that's not even dude come on slap out! Are man! let's let's let's go to the pool or something to clear your head. Don't do this man you're a king and you want to lose that over that. God let me pray for you in the mighty name What Jonadab does is he says, &quot;Oh you like her? Let 100 what you do is you pretend to be sick&quot; See something. When your daddy calls, &quot;hey how you doing?&quot; Tuesday say, &quot;Hey come to a home group&quot; &quot;I'm busy - When when Sunday morning comes in you begin to go to the church.&quot; &quot;why?&quot; &quot;because I am very offended&quot; but you still go to school. You're offended who really don't are not there to work out but Every place you go to you get offended but you and that's why you don't want to go because you crazy cousin who will teach you how comes and asks you how are you doing you will so you can protect that lust and so we can grow and he tells him and then I want you to get Ask her to make her favorite pancakes and when well let the lust will do the rest. He Because once you give spoon feed the and then he rapes this girl and then he hates will surround you with mentors for a reason nurture. The nature of lust, the nature of divorce, through my choice and through my association. to submit my biology to my theology. He doesn't me to hold them and try to say well God didn't this stuff he wants me to twist God's word into my always have a jonathan but Amnon had a friend. It's a friend that will tell you don't tell this and dad. Don't you dare to tell it to that guy. Why? and they really want to protect you from but David committed adultery and he killed Uriah always say oh don't tell anybody who can help so that you can keep it all to yourself A python is a very unique snake in the Bible. Acts chapter 16 verse 16 and another They say python produces the most but there's there's something about python's eggs a particularly warm environment for those eggs to because either it's too cold or is too hot. everything he plans against you cannot He needs them there to cook the atmosphere because something today- bad company corrupts good habits. remove some toxic people from your life. You will Jonadab. You know what? when Jonadab asked you but when David asks you how you're feeling say spirit of perversion and lust. Deliver me and People reach out to us all the time and say, I said do you go to church? You know there's no You know I just don't have time. And I know pretending he's busy. Pretending no perfect up to all other bad friends. You can get prayed want to, but if you don't submit to community, if some Christian friends, my friend all of that lust says in Second Timothy chapter 2 verse 22 pursue upon the name of the Lord. You can't be pure in