Special thanks to sponsor Ironside Computers. Specifically for giving me a computer, which finishes rendering to celebrate and play literally Good morning, everybody, and welcome back The online internet video game TV show insert and being bad at video games. Metroid is the first game in Nintendo's flagship the genre title, but unlike most games in to hate it even more! Can You Beat the Metroid Minimalist Pacifist We'll be playing the Famicom Disk System version for the convenience of save files and the If you'd like to do the run on the NES version, still applicable. Our goal is to beat the game while killing as few upgrades as possible, with pacifism If, at any point, we accidentally kill an Before even starting the run, we'll need at reach the end. This is a map of the entirety of Zebes. The door to the final hallway in which we of Mother Brain in Tourian. Mother Brain can only be damaged by missiles, But to actually reach Mother Brain, we need each for the 5 Zebetite doors, and 25 missiles and into Tourian. Adding these together we get a minimum of The player starts with exactly 0 missiles, on Zebes. There are three ways to obtain missiles: the pickups. These will only replenish missiles up to your probably never going to see one. The second method is killing Ridley or Kraid, added to both their current missile count It's worth noting that it's required to murder but Metroid for the Nintendo Entertainment isn't. The third method is to grab a missile upgrade, to their current count and maximum count, to their murder count. Of course, these do add to our item collection source, we'll be exhausting these upgrades Speaking of how much we need to, since we need to collect at least 20 missile packs. Guess how many missile packs are in the game? 21. While this is technically enough on paper, with missile packs alone, since many of those doors that require missiles to enter. But I think for now we do have at least a long-term goal: go grab every single missile. Let's get this run started! We immediately grab the Morph Ball to get over to the first available missile, sitting Now that we have 5 missiles, we turn around Bombs. You might be tempted to grab the E tank along maximum health isn't technically required run, we're not allowed to grab a single E Unfortunately, since the only way to recover exactly 30 HP: the amount Samus starts the But since we have infinite lives, that's not just die a couple dozen painful and horrible single enemy pattern and can blaze through Now that we've reached the Morph Bombs, you door. But trust me, we absolutely need the Morph minutes, so this missile toll is well worth However, now that we've spent 5 missiles, in the game: if we want to avoid killing Ridley packs without opening any missile doors, which But we'll worry impossibility when we get For now, there's one more missile pack at hectic dodging. Be careful while bombing through any walls, blast. Once that pack is obtained, we're heading sitting in plain sight and to grab the final The main path to the Ice Beam is through a to also be a secret passageway through the bombs. In order to reach that pathway you're theoretically or High Jump boots, but we have a backup for a bomb. Since Metroid for the Nintendo Entertainment the bomb bobs you into the air you'll still of jumping. By moving slightly to the side of the bomb, great horizontal distance. The rest of the pathway doesn't need any fancy Samus dies in three hits in Norfair, and you'll marbles to reach the Ice Beam. On top of that, you're practically required marbles since the spawn pattern has them going room. But once you get past that set, you can finally We won't explicitly need this thing until be abusing it until then. When an enemy is hit with the Ice Beam, it as a platform, but there's a secret secondary of murdering you. Now that we've got this baby, there are no the game, and thus no more items that could to grab. We're just gonna have to grab them all as-is. Since we've already started Norfair, let's There's a dead end on the western path from To reach them, we have to go through two hallways in the game: lava bubbles. In Metroid for the Nintendo Entertainment these projectiles are randomized on duct tape, than hazards. But in Metroid for the Nintendo Entertainment tape's randomization is far, far better in Getting past every individual lava bubble For those just past a ledge, you're safe while Sit and wait for the exact moment they stop Once you're near the missile pack, you'll in the entire game who can't be frozen: any dodging them is also kind of out of the question. My personal strategy was just having enough Once you've got the missile you're probably functionally just a shortcut to the save menu. We can get a couple more missile packs in we run into an issue. There are three missile packs located in this As far as the game is designed, the only entrance within the High Jump room, which is blocked Since opening this door isn't an option, we're in the trash and break reality. Notice the vertical room in the lava bubble the chunk of map we want to enter. This means we can use the glitch everybody's If you open a door, stand in its place until you'll gradually gain height and clip upwards If you do this past the highest possible screen screen position. I'll spare you the details both because it's no idea what I'm doing, but if you do this fall past the floor and into the lower room. There is, however, a bit of a caveat. The screen doesn't catch up with us, making However, notice on the map there's a door Even while off-screen we're still fully capable Unfortunately, just going through the door Nintendo Entertainment System was programmed If you enter the door ASAP, Samus will arrive door we originally dropped down from. This is because the room Samus enters is determined position. If the screen is positioned too high, it will In fact, if you make a pixel perfect entrance, the two actual doors, leading to an inescapable The only way out of here is by using the game's Just press Up and A on controller 2 to helpfully I experimented a while to get the screen low simple as staying in the morph ball and planting Each time you're juggled the screen will change As for exactly when to enter the door, I used When none of the lower pixels are visible, When exactly one of the lower pixels are visible, When at least two of the lower pixels are door, thus making the game playable and allowing It'll still be a pretty long trek to get there, the lava bubbles you already had to get past With every Norfair missile pack collected, There are some super cramped hallways in here, we now die in 2 hits. Carefully but quickly inch your way forward, them. These cramped hallways lead you to 2 missile The third and final missile pack can be reached bouncing marble room. Since Metroid for the Nintendo Entertainment random chance whether you'll automatically In the long hallway, carefully edge your way close. If they're too low to roll under, don't worry: enemies are incapable of hurting you immediately through eachother. After exiting the hallway, we'll be at the we're after being accessible from above. But as you might expect, we can make our way If you're on the upper portion of the screen scroll upwards slightly to follow you. This lets you very, very slowly make your Before actually grabbing the missiles, I recommend developers. Be very careful to scream profanities while With Ridley's Hideout cleared, we head into packs. Two of them require some fancy tricks to get It's technically possible to get over there or not the player is allowed to place bombs for the Nintendo Entertainment System wasn't Instead, there's a much more consistent way. If you loop over the left side of the screen, able to freely walk around. Walk a little bit to the left and you'll loop Then jump up and do some more morphing to In the very similar looking room just after, different result. Just mash morphs constantly, over and over, When the hallway below is almost totally visible, couple pixels past where the upper doors are This ensures that the enemy in the lower hallway safely. We're now able to get both missile packs in There's just one more missile pack to cover: to the elevator. There are no vertical hallways we could use only option, and opening the door is not an We'll just have to enter the door without Do the same clip trick seen earlier, and while you're doing, make sure you accidentally position door and its red blocks. Too far to the right and you'll automatically far to the left and you won't be able to do If you're close to the sweet spot, you can if you want to be more exact. Once in position, scroll the screen alllllllll the door we're trying to get past. Since we're halfway into the block on the right. It doesn't seem to work 100% of the time, you'll phase into the next room, where very away. Of course there's no way out of this room have already thoroughly established as a valid With every single missile pack obtained and exactly 100 missiles and just barely the minimum Tourian's entrance is where Ridley and Kraid's deaths, you're able to fully extend a bridge This bridge room is where the Ice Beam is If you lure one of the bird-like enemies next through. Jump around above to get it positioned just a very risky attempt to freeze the bird at It needs to be as high as possible while just highest possible jump height. I say &quot;highest possible jump height&quot; because it's effectively random, because Metroid for while the devs were trying to escape a pool After accidentally jumping correctly, plant up to the door. The bird should have enough health to survive Thankfully, no matter how low your own health so just die a painful death for a free refill. Now that you're in Tourian, there are two Metroids, similar to their namesake, are incredibly Donuts, meanwhile, kill you in one hit. You've probably also noticed they instantly first doorway, because Metroid for the Nintendo game design flaws. After all, the genre was in its infancy and new technology while experimenting with a Such as programming on duct tape. To get through that doorway safely, you'll through midbounce. This puts you at exactly the right positioning The most dangerous part of this trek will constantly respawn and have absolutely no you. Thankfully, while donuts die in one hit, they Only three donuts are allowed on-screen at any more donuts from appearing. Keep careful track of every potential donut to keep your hitbox as small as possible. Once you reach the final door, gather your in the entire game. You will immediately die because Metroid for to burn like duct tape. It is theoretically possible to sometimes hit, but there's a much more reliable option. Slowly lure the three Metroids nearest the Once they're next to the door, roll into a As long as these Metroids are on-screen, they'll just enough extra time to safely enter the Now that you're in here, you'll need to carefully to destroy the Zebetite doors. These regenerate if not shot fast enough, in a row. Immediately after you will probably die. Not to worry, though! Turns out, Zebetite doors are remembered as doors, so as long as you destroy the door progress. Keep grinding through this hallway and be I haven't mentioned it until now, but there's pacifist run incredibly infuriating. If the fire button is pressed and then basically example you either start or stop moving, then Yeah, that's right. In Metroid for the Nintendo Entertainment DUCT TAPE! Since donuts die in one hit, any instance invalidating our attempt, since, as we all So, yeah, basically, avoid moving while shooting And since there's no way to restock missiles, ever waste more than 2, which basically means Brain. Real talk, on the day I was heading into Tourian, was saving as my reward for finishing the 16 hours of Metroid later, I had yet to eat No... no... Ahahaha... AHAHAHAAAA! Ohh, there we go, there we go, there it is, Haaaa, AHHHHA HA! OH MY GOD! OH MY GOD! Oh my god, I'm going to eat a donut! With exactly 1 unforgivable murder under our like twenty something items but I honestly the Metroid Minimalist Pacifist Run is Mission And I am never playing Metroid for the Nintendo life. Before heading out, special shoutout to Metroid speedrun randomly showed up on google and And finally, special thanks to all Patreon All the bugs Yugi has killed Anon42 Zahlen 0 Chris Nate Anyuu David20Covers Alex Nelson Th3QuackyGam3r Jace Nilges Rory Kelly LittyKitty CrustaceanCreep PlumSweater EpicEvan921 Ye Olde Foren Miss Functional Nathaniel Coleda what he did) Multicore The Green Scorpion Xander Kozak 8-Bit Misdreavus Jon Miller Jorb YopAlonso World's slowest game of chess, white waiting While we play, would you like to have the Star Captain Eli Shaba of Clan Ghost Bear dwro_25 britfaic kid SaltySweet Ryley Anderson NeptunianBaby Hmm, Let's try to crack open the board with Officer Slard Greg Campbell Have you ever considered not being bad at Nova Sulfuric Boss ZythAgol Eric Barron Mars Becker Fira Silktoid DrawnByAJ 2 - The Return of the Haha Funny Amphyzen Literal cat Sylvi 'wingedcatgirl' is gay and Reblog if you too are gay and or don't go Eve Weaver Cable everybody and their stuff together. Okay, 3, 2, 1, let's jam! Flip-Chicken Ryan Garvey GrandeNero an offline Internet TV show Anta baka, Gamechamp-san, you're not playing Metoroido for the Famiri Konpyuta Disuku Shisutemu! Fireblade974 NowIOnlyWantATriumph AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA, aaaAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA The Jelly Bean Warlock Nathan Riddle with a 33 to 36 foot wingspan. Eleven Jack Silverson InfamousPeace TrisChandler Makii Bee Lily_Sap darknitte ChampDoesntLikeToSayFunsieRunsie Gamechamp says EA Games is the greatest game Carlo Calcaterra DrFeed madrox07 sneeze, I have never sneezed. F Amadon TBrenelly200 Pug Master LemonPlanter HighPrincessErinys It's (Nitsa-Gamer) not NitsuaGamer Feduje Gracchus Frillylilly Alex S. Warrior Stop being self deperecating, b-b-baka! (aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Supporting Gamechamp until Jax And Daxter CutieMonica can seem to pronounce, Nemeia Oh no I seem to have dropped my five dollar requires it for my rent into a war with the Cabal on Mars. So lets get to taking out their command, one mmnmnmnmnnmmnnmmnmmnmmnmn BJMashPotato is making Gamechamp read more Do not go gentle into that good night Old rage against the dying of the light Perri Taylor-Finn Evie Patamon We're not sure how but Gamechamp3000 used gun control legislation passed Let me know how much this video sucks and You're legally allowed to eat a donut for