Hey guys Toby Mathis here. And today to avoid paying capital gains I know that everybody thinks and there's all these people talking about how to pay narrow But here's five actual strategies Their legal, they're ethical. And I'll go over how they work Let's go over each one in kind. Number one, a lot of you guys realize. That passive losses can only be used against passive income or unless you sell the asset, passive losses. That get released. What does that mean? It means if I have passive losses And by the way, the form number is 8582. Like if you go pull up your tax return, you're looking for form Hey, I never got to write that off. I had passive losses from rental properties And bonus depreciation. And I created these things or hey, it's just not the greatest property The repairs are more than what I make. And I create a loss every year. And I'm not a real estate professional in real estate. Then I end up with these passive losses and they get released That's actually a pretty big thing. So if I have $100,000 of passive loss that I have or something, I can use to offset other income, So you could absolutely avoid payment And if there's more, get this. You could use it against your wages too. You just have to go through first. We're going to eliminate the capital Then it's just an ordinary So that's number one is a lot of times these things forward. Their account never sits them down and We're not telling you about I see it I'm like, hey, you got like 25, Sometimes it's 300, And they're like, what's that? You know, like it's a gold mine Here's how you release those. And, or we just use it against something actually, because I don't want to make you wait. You can use passive losses So even if you have, pizza shop owner in and it's kicking out But our topic today really is the capital So we would use it first against that. But of course losses, carrying forward, guys like me here's some other things you could do All right. Number two 121 exclusion A lot of you guys have heard of this. This is for a house that you lived as your primary residence. The amount is if you are single, it's $250,000 a capital gains It's complete exclusion $500,000 So what does that mean? Means let's say that I bought a house I lived in it for five years. I bought it for 300,000, I live in a hot market. It's gone up $200,000. I turn around and sell Let's just say easy math is 200,000. I don't have to pay tax on that. I have 250,000 if I'm single Of capital gain exclusion. So I would not have to pay tax Some of you guys did, We don't pay tax on our basis. The money that we spent that we bought it Now there's recapture on investment It doesn't offset that. But where a 121 exclusion really gets is when you turn your house into a rental. And what we'll see is people, I bought a house. Then I bought another I just kept If you aren't careful, you have. Now let's just do Not the last two out of five years It's the 24 months of the last 60. So if I've been living it for five years, So two out of five means I could. I could use it as a rental for three years I eliminate my ability The good part is the code the recapture on any of that either. I can I can avoid the gain entirely. If I am doing the 121 exclusion. So I could take a house, I would get the entirety of the capital I still have recapture, but I would get Plus, if I turned it into an investment 1031 exchange But let's just say that I have a house, same scenario Now it's worth 500,000, It's coming on the third year, and now Oh, my gosh. So I bought it for three. I have $400,000 of capital gain What could I do? I could literally sell it Avoid all the capital gain if I want to, and avoid all the recapture. So long as I buy real estate of $700,000 and I could buy multiple properties It's kind of crazy, but I could avoid Let's say that you live in a state Let's say you live in San Francisco $1,000,000.20 years ago, Right. And you're looking at turn it into a rental property You could use your $500,000 exclusion And you could avoid all the gain, and the capital gains and the recapture Yes, you can do both. Then you're saying. But what if I want to buy a replacement Well, you're going to have to do this but there's a way to do it you turn a property then you buy a rental property So yes, you can do it. It's going to take a little elbow grease, In that case, if we had two and a half, You're talking about, So, yeah, maybe it's worth a little bit All right. Number three, 1031 exchange. So we already put it up here and it's going to live in conjunction 1031 exchange is when you sell real estate and you buy real estate of equal Now the beautiful part is that it allows you but it also allows you to avoid recapture. So when you depreciate a property there's something called recapture. You're supposed to pay tax up to 25% on it, depending on the type of recapture If you're doing a cost saving study, potentially So a 1031 exchange And you are selling real estate So if it's us, real estate It's foreign real estate. It just has to stay foreign. They call it like kind exchange. But you can go So if I sell a property for $2.5 million, I can buy $2.5 million of single family I can do a combo. I could do let's do I do a condo, As long as it all adds up to $2.5 million, If it adds up to less, It's going to be proportionate, in real estate When I sell real estate, Number four cost seg. And I'm just going to put bonus. That little dap means depreciation. Why what is why is that sitting up there. You're like Toby how is that going to save me on capital Well, here's the reason. Anytime you have passive loss, it will offset passive income when you sell a property that was passive. So if I sell rental property then that capital gain is actually So let's say same scenario I buy a house at half a million, There's half $1 million of gain, But let's just say that it's just there's half And I have a and I have a let's just say that I have other real estate, Let's just say it's a warehouse. I could cost seg the warehouse and create a half $1 million of passive Let's just use that as an example. Say it's a couple million dollar piece of, or self-storage or, eight plex or whatever And I do a cost seg on it, And I accelerate some of that depreciation I could use that half $1 million loss gains from the sale, and eliminate Yes, you can actually do that. We actually call it the lazy man's 1031 when I sell property and I'm like, crap, Now what am I going to do? I have all this capital gain. Well, by other property and accelerate that then you could use against your your passive capital gains It actually works like a charm. Now what's a classic cost seg and break it into its components property and 27.5 if it's residential, So a lot of you guys but there's actually 5 or 7 and 15 year. If you get a cost seg study into its components. So, for example, things appliances, the electric, that is it attaches to the appliance, that attaches to the appliance, All of that takes the useful life So let's say that and I start, well, No, that carpet's not 27.5 year. I should be able to write that off Go outside. Those are land improvements. How about the trees and shrubs and the the pitch that we put in and the fence That's 15 year property. I can write that off faster. Plus depending on the year that I put it if I did it this particular year in 2024 I could write off If I bought it in 2022, 23, 21 or 20 or 19 and I put it into service, that property 100% of whatever that property is. That's five, 7 or 15 year. I know I probably some of you guys, the number one tax loophole in real estate You can go do a deep dive. What it does is it creates Now I can use that large deduction including capital gains So if you sold investment And you want to avoid the tax Sometimes it's as easy as taking And I've done this on multiple years or one of our warehouses to wipe out the capital gain on some of So I sell a property, is there anything I can cost SEG then buy something you can cost SEG you can create that passive loss for that capital gain you have from the sale Works like a charm. Last one, This could eliminate. Make sure that I did this right. Installment sale installment on the sale of an asset over So if I say pay me 50% now and 50% in January 15th, then I would have half of this sale in this particular year If I carry back the note for, I could literally spread out Now your recapture, if you're an investor properties, your recaptures But my installment sale basically three things or capture Number one is the return a basis, Number two, which is going to be taxed at zero, So the reason I said it could eliminate is if you're retired, for example, And your total income after your standard Your capital gains your long term capital So you could literally depending let's just say 1015, 20, 30, 40, $50,000 because you chose to do an installment All right away. Now you get a third type of income. So you have a return a basis, And then number three is you have some interest So they're going to have to pay But that would be normal taxable income. But you're getting interest It's just like a savings account. You're getting it on But boy that could actually work out What I've seen it do for people is folks that would have been and they were like, oh shoot, Colas. I'd like to not be in 20%. I'd rather be in the 15 or 0. It allows you to stretch it out half $1 million plus a lot of interest And it might put you in a situation where you're paying zero capital And so all these things, they make sense. They're, they're If you want to see how it apply to you, We'll do a free consultation. All you have to do is click the link Or you could just write strategy into the comment section, schedule a free consultation So if you're thinking the time to do that If you've already sold real estate oh, shoot, is there anything I could do? Some of these but it all starts with reaching out what they're doing and we'll do that to you for you, If you want to take advantage down in the comments or use the link Hey, if you like this type of information, you think I missed, let me know I'm not omnipotent. I make mistakes too. I miss things, and if you think that that I messed up on or I didn't, put it down there and I can make sure And if you know anybody or a real estate investor that could please share it with them.