I wish my father was as and I wish Salaar Shah was my boyfriend. I spent the whole year dreaming that Whoever loses will give Do you accept? I accept! Salaar Shah. Come on. Salaar Shah. Salaar Shah. What do you think Rohail, I believe that one bad person can have It doesn't seem like you Says who? I did. So, Rohail, which group are you in? I am not like them, I am a decent and responsible man. I am not like these goons. Greetings. Good morning sir. Morning. Money? Happy birthday sir, your father has sent a gift and cake and also this cheque. Did he not come himself? Sir, he was busy with a delegation. Businessman. Busy man. He is far superior to you. Sir, he has said that Say bye to your boss from me. Come on, leave. Sir, take this cheque. Guys, today's party is from Salaar Shah. Zooni, child, are you ready? Yes, mama. I am ready. Today is your first day in college, If your prayers are with me, By the will of God. Okay listen, There's no need to be too frank with anyone. Keep yourself limited to your education. Why are you so worried? It is such a big college, God knows what sort of environment it will be. Hey, a person makes their own environment. I have full faith in my daughter, by the will of God, she will be successful. By the will of God. Yes, yes, she will make her parents proud, she will get a job as a collector. There will be prosperity in our home, She has become really sharp. Mama, money. Come on you are always in a hurry. Come on, child. Yes, greetings brother Irfan. Yes, actually it's the first day of her college. Oh wow. This will be great. Yes, I will just tell her. Zooni. Yes, papa? Mr. Irfan was on phone, he has asked Rohail, he will show you around the college and Papa, you please refuse him, I will go around the college myself, Child, brother Ifran. is extremely sincere, He got you enrolled and And most importantly, when Rohail will be with you What is the problem with that? What is wrong, papa? She is going to college Come on. Come on, Okay bye. Salaar, the cake was great. Brother Salaar. Are you mad? Not just any spirit, Will you speak up or What are you staring at? Brother Salaar, the admin has confiscated Here you go. Brother Salaar? Drink this first, man. Brother Salaar, I still have to pay my fee for three months. If you talk to the admin, then my card can be returned Here, pay the fees. Brother Salaar, thanks a lot. Don't worry about the money, focus on your studies and become capable. Go. Brother Salaar, you are really good. Ok stop now, Come on, leave now. Go. Go and get everything for Okay boss. Okay. Where is Salaar? He is in his room. Salaar, someone has come to meet you. Oh man, Your mother is here. You leave, I am coming. Salaar. Happy birthday, son. I am surprised. You remember? How can I forget this day? That is why, every year, And you don't even come to meet me. Thank God, you came this year. I came to see what has changed in you. A mother never changes, Salaar. You are right, you have not changed at all. You are still the same. I am your mother. Is this how you talk to your mother? My mother left me a long time ago. I didn't leave you, Salaar. That time was such... It was daytime, I was holding onto your scarf, mama, don't go. Don't go, mama. Salaar leave me. And do you remember Don't come after me. After that, I never came. Then why do you come again and again? Because I cannot live without you Salaar. I have come now, son. It's really late now. Don't say this Salaar, I really love you. You know, I hate two things a lot, one is my father's wealth Both of them are lies. Don't come here, please. What is it Salaar? I won the first prize in the drawing competition. Hey, why are you telling your mother? If she gets free from her work, her parties, Do you have time for me? Hey, where do I get time from? Salaar. Babar's men are beating Zubair, Take out the bat. Zunaira Ashfaq. On-time. Impressive. Okay, you finally got admission in this Yes. Come on, I will show you, your department. In fact, let us do one thing, let's have coffee. No thanks. Why? You look worried. If something is worrying you tell me. If you want money, I will give it to you. I don't want money. Okay, come, I will show you the department. No, I will see it myself. Thank you. Ouch. I was being beaten there, I did reach there before time. Okay, so this is what you wanted, that first I get beaten badly, Brother, I am hurt. Come on, let's get you bandaged. I just have one friend. So, what if you don't take up after me, I have adopted you, Here you go. He was like that If he could he would hold my hand I don't know why papa has If such people are kind towards you then understand What do you mean? Leave the meaning, tell me about him. About whom? I told you everything from Hey, the same, goon. I didn't mention him in Okay, tell me, does he look handsome? I mean, such brave people, those who walk with style, You have started watching a lot of films, Yes, and you equally boring. I mean, you should have come He saw and praised me. What does he look like? Quiet. Come on children, Take it. Has papa slept? Yes, he slept. Zooni. Yes mama? Child, I want to talk to you about something. Go ahead. Look child, both I and your father wish Your degree, your education, it's our dream. I will never disappoint you. I know, I have full faith in you. But child, at times the heart wants something else. In love, destinations seem precious, but they move a person from their path. Child, just don't fall in love with anyone. What are you saying? Why would I do this? Child, I have enough experience. I don't want for you, the lesson I have learned from life. Child, just focus on your studies. Mama, you don't worry. Have faith in me, I will never do anything like this. I have complete faith in you. Come on, finish the milk, and sleep. You have to wake up early in the morning. Both victory and defeat are in the hands of fate. If this is true, then I am the king of fate. We will know this after the victory, who is the king and who... King of kings, it is not necessary Who knows, maybe I'll win this time. We will see. Salaar, tell me something, Rohail's bike is shining a lot, Even if he brings a plane, I will win this race. Like I have always won. You? Do you know me? I don't find it necessary for me to know you. Good for you. By the way, did you get hurt? I am absolutely fine. Blind man! Blind? Whether I walk on the road, or on the side, who are you to get You had an accident? Yes, what else? So, it's just a phone, Oh hello, what do you think of yourself? Ouch. You killed me, and her as well. Look, I didn't do it on purpose, I was having a race and trying to save you, You? You were saving me? I know boys like you well. This road, this college, and it doesn't matter to you whether someone Excuse me. I know very well. I am talking to a loafer, goon, hot-headed, But you remember one thing, don't come near me after today, Understand? Hello. Salaar Shah. What is this? She insulted you so badly, Why did she leave, man? She was speaking so well. Mr. Salaar Shah, she didn't praise you, Wow. Just wow. I am surprised. I am surprised. For the first time in my life who has so much courage, There is something about her. There is surely something. You will never forget this day, you have lost a race today I will never forget and she too will remember this day all her life. He broke it. I don't know I wanted to break his face like this phone... Here you go. What is this? You were calling me blind and you, I can see everything. I had told you not to come near me. We are going to be Because we are in the same batch and You know, myself.... I don't care. Okay listen. Okay. I am sorry. Look, I know we didn't meet under good circumstances. But I have made you face a loss So, take this mobile. I don't want it. But why? Because I know well that you want to give But I didn't think like that Just shut up. Stay away from me. Understand? Take this wealth and fame, Stay away from me. Understand? Hey brother, I am Zubair, not Zunaira. This is her name? No, no, no, her name is destruction. Come on give this to me. Farah. Hey man. Sir, you too come along. Thank you so much Salaar. If you were not there that day, I didn't wanted to lose Farah. Here comes destruction. I will go talk to her and come. Excuse me, how can you sit here? Just like one sits. No, I know how to sit, but I don't know It's not a good thing. Okay, so this is it. Yes, you must have understood it, Okay, the thing is, neither your and Now I am sitting here, I usually don't share anything But you, you are allowed to do anything. Listen, who are you? I am Zunaira. Who, Zunaira? A normal human being like everyone else. No, how are you related to Salaar? I am not related to Salaar in anyway. You know, Salaar doesn't give his seat to anyone, but he gave it to you. Interesting. He didn't get the seat from his home, You also gave him a shut-up call, right? And he even said sorry to you. Oh, what is so special about her? I also want to see. Exactly what you don't have. Oh my God. Whatever! Shall we go? Yes, come on. Never mind. Do I know you? No, but you can know me, after all, Salaar is keeping you By the way, I am Farah. Another fan of Salaar. No, I am not a fan of Salaar, but this is true, My fan? Why? Hey, there is now someone There is someone That's great. He is just a student and nothing else. He is not a normal student, he has a great academic record by the way. He must have a great record, Where is this phone ringing? It's not mine, Poor me doesn't have a phone. Okay, go and see I will see. I can hear it ringing from One second. Its ringing here. Sister, is this your phone? Hey, this is a very expensive phone. This is not my phone. Hey, child, if this is not your phone, Okay answer and see who's calling. Papa this is not my phone. Hey, answer the phone. Hello. Hello. How are you? Farah. Farah? Where did Farah come from? Why did you keep your phone in my bag. No, it's yours. How do you like it? Yes, I will return it tomorrow Coward. My friend, Farah, How did she forget it like that. What if you had broken it, or lost it, Anyway, return it tomorrow, and be careful in future. Where is your phone? My phone is broken. What? Its broken? Hey, your father got it for Okay fine, I will get you another one, Show me the phone. It's a really expensive phone. Did you put this mobile in my bag? Yes. Why? When I had told you then why did you take this action? Because an action has a reaction. And it's nothing big, it's just a mobile. I don't want your mobile I am not doing any favour, I broke your mobile As simple as that. It's so simple for you to play I cannot afford such a mobile, but I don't even beg in front Zooni, you are taking it wrong. Please. You are wrong. I am not like other girls, I am Zooni. At least, a person like you What happened, Zooni? Is he bothering you? What? What did you do with her? Who are you to question me? I can be anyone for her. I had asked you to stay away, If after today, I see you talking to him, Find out, if he has any sort of connection with Zooni, then get rid of him for a few days. Is he a sack of flour What is the matter Zooni? Why are you so quiet today? At times, I feel that we are like those birds, Our hands are tied, we will have to breathe carefully. It feels like I am under someone's favour. I like you. Wow. Amazing. What is your problem? Speak up. Nothing. Okay tell me, Does he need to create a scene every day, that I tell you and you enjoy it like a story? So, what else do you have apart from that? You know, to be honest, Secret introduction. Take a picture of him for me. Oh, I just remembered, the poor girl doesn't have a phone, Okay fine, no problem, let's do one thing, What do you say? What do you say? What are you doing? What if I find a phone. Are you mad? Put it back. What is this? Sorry to the girl with a lot of self-respect. Salaar. How sweet. He is saying sorry to you. Oh God, forgive that poor thing. Where do you find such appreciative people? That too so romantic. Leave it. You don't leave him. You are saying such weird things, Take this and keep it there too. Switch off the lights. I? but, how can I? Rohail, this is a good opportunity, And then it is just a matter of a few days, you are being given this You will be able to learn a lot from it and Sure...sure, sir, I will go. Good boy. Thank you. I... Scholarship! Read it. I think the topic is clear now. Yes sir. Any question about the topic? No sir. You people have been The group that has the best performance, they will get a scholarship Sir, isn't the time short for the research work. No Zunaira, you will have to finish it within this time limit. Okay sir. A group of two students and Azaday will tell you the rest of the details. Thank you. Thank you sir. Maham Faisal, Farah Zubair. Salaar and Zunaira, Ramish and Aleena. Sharukh and Warda. Amaar and Farah. Hammad and... My name is Salaar Shah. It's not that bad a name. Excuse me, sir. Yes? Sir, can I change my partner, please? Why? I think Salaar Shah is a good student. Sir, I don't want to you please team me up Sorry, its done. No changes can be made now and Zunaira if you want this scholarship Good luck. Hello partner. Shall we start working? Where are you going, leaving me? Zooni. I don't want to work Okay. But I will have to do it now. Because I am helpless. I need this scholarship. That is why if you want to Then? Should I hang myself? I have some rules, that you will have to accept, I accept. During research work, This means you will not even say hello. You will not interfere in my work. Means, no lift. and apart from the project, This means, who are we to you? Tell me, do you accept? Okay, I accept. Fine, we will start working from tomorrow. Right now, You make notes on whatever source you like. You know what the topic is, right? You tell me this as well. How to overcome poverty? What is the need to research in this? Give everyone money, they will be rich. You can do this, when you will become head of the state. Surely. I am leaving. Hi. Hmmm... Now what sort of an answer is that? Expect such answers from me. I have high expectations. Don't attach them to me. But, you... You had agreed to sign the rules, remember? Which rules? Oh, those useless rules. You will not talk about anything else other than work And if I do this? Then? Then I am going. What is this, Zooni? You are ready to leave on everything. We will only work, You tell me something, you are so rich, That is to stay with you. What did you say? You are doing all this to stay with me? I don't want to talk to someone Two faced. Okay. You too like other girls I was joking. We are not friends that you joke with me. We can form a relation, but I know you don't want to make it. Anyways, let's talk about work. Okay? And you will not repeat anything in future. Zooni, why are you like this? You get serious on everything. If someone likes you Why do you have so many doubts that you will remain pure, I mean, get out of this impression. Zooni. I know about Rohail, the funding he got for you. Look, I know this scholarship we are working hard and But can we not do all this in Fine, I am a loafer, Don't be scared of me, Zooni. Trust me and step forward. Leave it, and come here. What? Come on. Come on. That... Come on. What is it? Look, this wind, these trees, this environment. Yes, so? Do this. What is this stupidity? There is peace in stupidity. Do it. Keep your bag here. No. Look the whole college is watching. Forget everyone, only I am here. Trust me. Open your arms. Close your eyes. Close your eyes. Breathe freely. Take a deep breath. Say, I am really happy. I am really happy. I am not afraid of anyone. I am not afraid of anyone. I am free. I am free. Because... Because... Huh? Because you are the reason. Our soul connection is so profound Even your silence could tell Everything I heard It is truly a blessing showered upon us I am content with the love we have... ... Hello. Where did you go? I have ordered tea for you. Hello. What happened? We have to go for the research work My car is here, we will go in that. No, I will not go in the car. Okay, so my bike is there, No. Then how will we go? I will tell you tomorrow. It's really hot, right? Really hot. You drank it and I didn't even find out. Have you ever taken a bus before? I can get on a flying plane What is a bus? I will get on from the front door, Hey man, give me space. Why are you pushing me? Move. Am I pushing or are you pushing? Hey! Brother, stop. Stop. Stop. What are you doing? What sort of ill-mannered people are they? Did you see how they were pushing? These are poor people, Mr. Salaar Shah, this is their entire life. I don't know Brother. What is this? Now don't miss this, come and sit. What are you looking at? Oh. Hey brother.... These people don't need in fact, they think the floor is The kids don't need some good friends are enough. They don't want a lavish table to eat at, in fact, What happened? Nothing. Shall we go? Yes. If she knows then she will look at you. Do you have time for me? Hey, where do I get time from? We need to take good pictures of them, and then we will have to We have to tell them how these people live in these I will tell you this right now. Smile. Smile. I am roaming around in Don't worry, you are not the only one roaming around. Really? Okay, then we are square. Did you get all that I asked you for? Yes, yes, check. Its full till way up. I swear you have been bothered a lot. Now just watch. You will end their poverty like this. I cannot remove their poverty, that is the job of the government, but I can bring a smile on their Even if happiness is for a moment, you always remember it. Our soul connection is so profound Even your silence could tell Everything I heard It is truly a blessing showered upon us That we are now together I am content with the love we have... ... Who is hiding behind this smile? No one. What is wrong sister? Who would know better than me? Stop this nonsense. Lock the door quickly. You did the same thing again. What is this? I tried to mend my ways, but I failed. I had told you not to do this, See, I kept it and you didn't even know. Tomorrow, I will break this phone in front of you, Break it, I will get you another one. Zooni, why don't you understand Why is that? I am working on the project right now, I have to discuss it with you and Salaar, I cannot keep this phone. Okay, do one thing once the project is over, You really liked that, didn't you? Now don't talk too much, What more can I ask for from God? I have reached my destination It is God's favour upon me That you have become my soul mate These conspiracies are of love That we are now together I am content with the love we have... ... Our soul connection is so profound Even your silence could tell Everything I heard It is truly a blessing showered upon us That we are now together I am content with the love we have... ... Sir, you have come after so long, stay for a couple of days, I have made all the food that you like. Ameer Shah. Ameer Shah. Why are you shouting? And why did you come here? I have come to get my son. He will not go from here. He will go with me. I said get out! That's it. Salaar. You people are fighting for Salaar. The ones who brought me in You took too long. I am a human being, not a toy. You say that I stay here, there is no difference between I am Salaar Shah, owner of billions, someone who lives in castles is alone. Because I don't have a home, where there is peace, where I have someone who is my own. Someone who would guide me. Salaar, son, let's go inside, No, why later? Right now, am I a puppet for you and for you a burden Salaar. Here you go. Whoever picks this first, Because I am not worth more than this. Here you go. Ha-ha, this scholarship and us? Where is he? Who? Who are you talking about? Your friend, who else. Oh, Salaar Shah. I don't know. This is the limit, he is not here till now. He is so careless and ill-mannered. I shouldn't have trusted him, One second. Zooni, what is your problem? Why do you always consider Salaar so wrong? He didn't need to come here, because he wants that What do you want? Zooni, you don't know, but the scholarship you are going after, our batch got that And more importantly, the company sponsoring When Salaar found out that and he is funding your education, he didn't like it. He tried to help you and You know Zooni, Salaar did all this, because his feelings for you are something else. And I know his emotions are true, because I am his friend before you. I can give my life for Salaar. You know why? Because he can give his life for his friends. You are so rich, That is to stay with you, just like that. Zubair, what is going on? Man there is a big issue. A boy in the locality had an accident with The people of the locality are You please leave man. Where is Zooni? How would I know where Zooni is? Hey, Salaar, they are being really violent, You take the bike and go to the hostel. Salaar... Zooni. Salaar? Why are you sitting here, I was waiting for you, tell me, Zooni, get out of here. What happened? Tell me, Zooni, there is a riot outside, Come on. Now, don't change the topic, Tell me, that scholarship... Yes, I did. Because I cannot see you worried. Please, come on. Where were you? Zooni, get out of here, Salaar, I got the scholarship. Congratulations. If you survive, Take everyone out of here. As soon as you see them, We will not leave them. There he goes. Catch him! Zooni. Zooni. They will kill us. They will burn us. I will not let anything happen to you. My parents must be waiting for me. Zooni, I am with you. Trust me. Come on. Come on. Uncle, Zunaira has still not come home? No, son, she hasn't come yet. Why? Is everything fine? There are riots in the college, Riots? Oh God. Where will my daughter be? Hey, why are you standing, Yes, yes, come on son. Oh God. What happened mama? There has been a riot in Zooni's college Oh God. Salaar, we have reached my home. You must be hurt, you... Zooni, you go please. Salaar, how can I leave and go? Nothing will happen to me, your family must be worried, Okay I will go, but you leave first. Till you don't go inside, Please go. I will see. Zooni, you. Where were you? You know how worried your family was. I was just coming to college... Hey Zooni, how are you? Rohail was telling us there You are fine child. Where were you child? Me. I was in the library. I have told you so many times to come early, now will you lose your life for your education. One minute, first tell me, who dropped you. I am asking you. Son, she looks really worried. Come on, child, come inside and rest. Tell me, that scholarship... Yes, I did. Because I cannot see you worried. What happened? I don't know what is happening to me. What do you mean? What? That, Salaar... What Salaar? I don't know why he cares for me so much. He saved me. I don't know why he got me a scholarship. I see him everywhere with his typical smile. Hi words, his sentences, But this is not madness. Then what is it? This is love. Love? What else? Where there is Salaar and No. What, no? it's clear from your face, that my lovely, innocent sister is in love. That Salaar has won your heart. You only focus on your studies, I cannot do this. What do you mean you cannot do this? You have no control on it, The one you have loved, She is not even happy. Be a little happy. Zooni, I love you. Salaar, we two are total opposites. Our status doesn't match, our habits are different, our thinking is different, but now we love each other and al this doesn't happen Zooni, will you marry me? My life is not complete. Please come and complete it. But Salaar... But the answer should be such Our soul connection is so profound that God answered all our pleas Even your silence could tell Everything I heard God answered all our pleas It is truly a blessing showered upon us That we are now together I am content with the love we have ... What more can I ask for from God? I have reached my destination It is God's favour upon me that you have become my soul mate It is truly a blessing showered upon us that we are now together I am content with the love we have ... I no longer needed to rush once I had you You are the blessing I prayed for How do I explain my feelings any longer? Every moment feels dreamy with you Now all the gatherings are filled with love That we are now together I am content with the love we have ... I am content with the love we have. Brother Irfan, why did you bother? You should have called me, Why? Can I not come to your home? Hey, what are you saying? It's your own home, Yes, that is true. You know this time you I will have to make this home mine. You go out. But I am tired of you. What happened brother? Did we make a mistake? I came to become your relative? Will you be my brother in law? Will you agree on getting Zunaira married to Rohail? Hey, brother Ifran, this will be another favour Hey, don't talk about these favours to me. How can I not? You have always supported If you say all this, then I will leave Hey, what are you saying? And sister in law, you? What can I say brother? Rohail is just like my son. God bless, What else do we need for our Zunaira? Yes. But... But? But, what Sabeen? We should also find out Hey, why would she say no? Yes, yes, I will keep her as my daughter. She will stay happy with Rohail. I will take care of her, Yes, yes, absolutely. Then, congratulations. Serve the sweets. Hey, get a plate. Yes, I will just get it. Come quick. Something special. Salaar. How much more will you make me wait? I want to hear it from you. I have written it in this, you read it. No. I expressed it myself and now you will too. Salaar... Yes, go ahead. I like you. And? I... I, what? I too am in love with you. To get you to speak two three words, Meaning, meaning she loves me. And she feels that I love her. Me? Salaar Shah! Everyone is watching, lets leave from here. The dream is broken. Fairy tale is over. Salaar if you are joking, then don't. You have made a joke. Because of you, I am in this condition and she says I am two faced, Yes, I am all of it. Now see and tell me, how did you feel? A hundred girls like you go around me, they die for me and you felt that I would be in love with you, The day you insulted me, I placed a bet on you, that one day you will fall in my love See my friends, Miss self-respect, Miss Zunaira Ashfaq, she came to me herself with her love letter. Salaar, I love you. Aww. Zooni. The game is over madam Zunaira. Or miss Zunaira. In future don't even come near me, because I don't love anyone but I hate you a lot. Why would you love me? You have insulted me in front of everyone. You will fall so low for a bet, You would fall so low. But remember one thing. Yes, go ahead. Speak up. You may have all the luxuries in the world, but you will never find true love. You will never find true love. Really? Money has so much power, Understand? People were right that Hey, that's it. I have heard enough. You came close to me yourself. I didn't force you. I didn't even touch you without your permission. Hey, you yourself, might have... No. no. no. no. You're heartbroken? You will be this angry. I know. Now get lost. You will fall so low for a bet, You may have all the luxuries in the world, She has such high fever; Doctor, what do you think? Look, I have given her an injection. She should regain In case she doesn't regain consciousness, Son, what happened? Did she have a fight No, I don't know, a friend called, so I came to see her. After all, when she regains consciousness you I don't see your friend, Zooni. Why do you ask? I miss her. I want to see her face. How is she? Regret. Guilt. Disappointment. She must have something on her face. I was just missing her. You know what? You should be ashamed. I shouldn't be ashamed, she should be. She loves you truly. She has high fever since last night. You know, no one plays with someone's emotions so badly, You want her to die, right? You want that she dies, then fine, I pray to God she dies, so that she doesn't have to suffer Shame on you, Salaar. Shame on you. Salaar. Salaar, let's go. You know, no one plays with someone's emotions so badly, Why would you love me? You have made a scene You will fall so low for a bet, Don't tell me anything, Have you told your family? The scene was such, what would I tell everyone? When will you come to college? I might never come now. You will leave your studies Don't even take his name in front of me. Please return this to him. Why are you doing this with yourself? If you do this, he will be successful. He wants that you stay Farah, it's my fault. I should be the one to be punished. So, go and return this to him. Sir, do you want anything else? She came to college and She didn't come, Salaar, you too come back. How long will you bunk classes? You cannot be stubborn all the time. Salaar. I know everything. All that you did and all that happened with you. I went out for a few days, And you behind my back, fell in love with him and you thought See, how he took revenge Did you see? You cheated me, for that Salaar. What does he have that I don't? Look, Even after knowing everything, I asked papa to send you a proposal. Me. I know everything, even after all that I want to make you mine. Even though, I know very well that What can we do? We are childhood friends, I can protect your respect at least. Did he leave? Zooni, child I want to talk to you I accept. Did Rohail talk to you? I am ready to marry him. What is the matter child? You look a bit different. Tell papa that Zooni has What happened, Zooni? You will leave Salaar and marry Rohail. I will be in love with a girl like you, Love didn't suit me. No Zooni, please don't do this with yourself. Don't do this marriage. Hello. I am coming. You took so long to come back. I was waiting for you. You know, I wanted to see your suffering. I have to go, move out of my way. So much stubbornness even now? Move out of my way. Do you want to know how it felt? It felt just like this, like trusting someone in and everything is over. That's how it felt. See guys, Salaar Shah got slapped. How are you laughing? Leave him. Leave him. Salaar. Salaar. Salaar. Salaar, leave him. Salaar. Do you want to know how it felt? It felt just like this, like trusting someone and everything is over. That's how it felt. Wiping away all my miseries I kept going I forced a smile on my face And went on It was as if life was colourless I prayed for your love every moment Then why did my prayers go unanswered? I have embraced my love for you I will bear the turmoil which your love will bring I will stay out of sight ... ... I will stay out of sight and bear the repercussions of this love I will stay out of sight I will sacrifice my life to protect you If you say I will even give you my life I have prayed to God for your companionship Whatever He writes in my destiny, I have won you over only after I wholeheartedly prayed for us to be together I have sacrificed my pride for you I embraced defeat only for your victory I am aware of the world's customs I will ward off any evil eye on you I have embraced my love for you I will bear the turmoil your love will lead to I will stay out of sight ... ... Is this a time to come home? I got late today. You get late every day. You come late every day. You sleep all day long. You live in my home and I will go back. Come here. What have you done to yourself? Do you see your beard, it's so long. Look at your hair. Do you not have any shame that One drunk filed a case against please hang him with me, because he too drinks alcohol. Shut up! You will talk like this in front of me? I am your father. You are my father? My father? How can you now claim What do you know about me? What is happening in my life? Do you have any idea What happened? You ran out of money? Money. Money. Money. Money. Did you buy me or give birth to me? Money cannot buy love, you cannot buy feelings from money, If you are so proud about your wealth, then bring me back something that is making Please. Please. Please, I seem like a loser, I am falling in my own eyes. I am broken, that's it. I am broken. I am ruined. Salaar. Salaar. Salaar, son, open your eyes. Salaar, son, what happened? Farzu. Kareem. Younus. Run. Salaar, son open your eyes. I will wear this and come. Zooni, why are you doing all this? Why don't you tell mama everything? That you want to marry Salaar, not Rohail. You love Salaar. How many times have I told you, don't take his name in front of me. Why shouldn't I? You stay away from my matters. Zooni, I cannot see you like this. You are not at all happy. I have to get ready, The same Rohail, There is no comparison between him and Salaar. Yes, you are right, Rohail and Salaar cannot be compared. Rohail didn't take revenge He didn't insult me in front of everyone. But Salaar did that. Firstly, thank you. This party is special for Guess what? I and Zunaira are going to get married. Come on, please. Come on guys, cheer up! Zunaira is here with Rohail, she is getting married. There is party by Bobby here. Salaar what is wrong? How can she marry someone? She loves me. How can she marry someone else? No, I will not let this happen. Why are you not dancing? Come on. Rohail, I don't dance. Oh! You should dance today. What are you doing? Why? Do you not like dancing with me Salaar. Huh? Come on, let's dance today. What are you doing? Rohail! You slapped me? I am not Salaar who will tolerate it, I am Rohail, I will make you pay for it. How dare you come in between me and Zooni? Zooni's love has given me this courage. Zooni, come on. You cannot take her from here. If someone has courage than stop me. Move. Come on. I will stop you. Zooni is only mine, only mine! If you even touch her, Salaar, stop it. Salaar, leave it. Come on. She loves me. Only me. Salaar, come on. Stop. Stop it Salaar. I will kill him; how dare he touch her. Come on Salaar, let's go. That's it Salaar. I will not leave you, understand? She loves me. Don't even think about it. Understand? Salaar, stop. Come on. Come. Wiping away all my miseries I kept going I forced a smile on my face And went on It was as if life was colourless I prayed for your love every moment Then why did I am sorry, Zooni. Please come back to me. Zooni, come on. Come on. Zooni. I have embraced my love for you I will bear the turmoil which your love will bring I will stay out of sight You will have all the luxuries in life, but you will not have true love. What happened? Did you run out of money? I think he plans on staying here all night long. Let him. What if papa sees him? If papa sees him What is wrong? He has come to meet you, I don't want to talk to him. If you don't want to talk to him, There is a wedding going on in our home, You go and tell him to leave. He will not go if I ask him, Whatever happened in the party that day, You are only marrying Rohail, because his father has If you lose this opportunity, So please, go and talk to him once. Zooni. Why did you come here, Salaar? Leave from here, Zooni, I will leave, you just don't marry Rohail. Why? Because I cannot see you with someone else. I feel pain. Pain? The one who gives pain to others, Since I saddened you. Since then. Zooni, I don't understand Is this a guilt of the crime or your curse or is this love that Please. Zooni, please. Free me of either this pain or your love. Or come back to me. You are late Salaar, tomorrow is my Mayun. You love me, Zooni. I am being punished for it. Go from here, Zooni, please. Zooni. Don't go. Just one step. Take one step towards me, What is left to hold now Do you want to know how it felt? It felt like in love someone slapped really hard. I have won you over only after I wholeheartedly prayed for us to be together I have sacrificed my pride for you I embraced defeat only for your victory I am aware of the world's customs I will ward off any evil eye I have embraced my love for you I will bear the turmoil your love will lead to I will stay out of sight The reason for this condition of Salaar... He loves this girl. This is her wedding card. Salaar. Salaar, you are back, son. Salaar, son. Both of you together under one roof I am here, son. Its late. Salaar, son, Zubair has told us everything. Who is that girl? Tell me. Her name is Zooni, right? I will go and talk to her Salaar. I will convince her son. You people are late again. Today is her mayun ceremony. Mayun. She is going to get married. The girl I loved so intensely, I even hated her. Mama what is my fault in this? Son you have no fault in this. But she feels this. She says that you are late Salaar, leave. Leave. Leave. Salaar. Move out of my way. Hey, go after him, help him. Oh my God. Please do something, we should go there. I cannot see my son in this condition. Do something. Come on. Who is this Salaar? Her parents are here with his proposal. If we had known earlier, we would have begged you first. Brother, Salaar told us today and Give us our son's happiness, brother. I beg you. What are you doing, sister? We have come with high hopes to you. Look brother Irfan is like my elder brother, I cannot refuse him. Have you asked your daughter if she wants to marry that boy or not? She is my daughter, she knows how to care for her father's respect. We too have come with high hopes to you. Salaar is our only son and he is only taking your daughter Zooni's name. Then you make your son understand. Our daughter's marriage is fixed, and she will get married there. My Salaar was not always like this, Zooni. He was my good and loving son. I was the one who left him. Because of which, he started hating every woman in the world, but he has truly loved you. Bye. Zooni, what is wrong? Zooni, I had told you not to do Still you... I am getting married by your will, I didn't ruin your name. I didn't break your and papa's trust. Even though I am broken myself, but I didn't break my promise. I have heard she is getting married today. She will be sent off today. Come on, let's have a race. No Salaar, leave it today. You are not in your senses. This is not the intoxication of alcohol. This is the intoxication of my sorrow. I am happy. Come on. Salaar, please, listen to me. Hey, man. What sort of a friend are you? Today I got completely ruined, at least listen to me today. Come on, let's have a race. What? Salaar had an accident? Come child. Come. Come child. Come. I cannot see your love dying, Zooni. You too go there, Wherever your love is. Look, the operation is successful, but right now we cannot say anything What do you mean doctor? He has head injuries. You people pray that Salaar... Salaar, what has happened to you? Look, your Zooni is here. For my sake, open your eyes. I cannot see you in this condition. Open your eyes. Open your eyes for your Zooni. Salaar, either set me free from your love, or return back to my life. Come back, please. I cannot live without you. Zooni. You? Salaar. Look, it's me Zooni. I have come to you forever. No, don't take it off. Salaar. Zooni, Ro... Rohail? Now, no one is between us. Neither this world, nor Rohail. You ran away from your wedding. Will you marry this cheap man? If you get up from here, I will. I am alive, I will not leave you so easily. Ouch. Zooni. Zooni. Salaar, are you fine son?