This course will help someone with no internet works in frost teaches this course 1000s of people on Udemy. The internet is a part But what is the internet? Have you ever really happens in the background? Then you enter a is yes, you are definitely looking at the right anything. And I am slowly explaining what the to follow this course, since this course tells you these abstractions will allow you to understand everyone who uses the internet should know its needs to know the ISP, everyone who uses the just cables spread all over developed. And in And we will look at all these concepts in a very internet works, which are eyes. In addition, at related to this course. And by answering the maximum level. Okay. regardless of your age or absolutely understand what the internet is when Now, we are going to talk about a scenario. Let's company, and your boss wants you to enable all I'm in PC, one should be able to communicate communicate with PC four, and so on. He's got the task. And this is where the solution device comes computers in the same environment to communicate environment, what I mean is that I'm talking about close distance to each other. And this scenario is office and in this office, we have seven computers We have a switch to accomplish the communication is, Can these seven computers communicate with because first of all, these seven computers how can we do that? I know that you have some use cables to connect computers to the switch. As to the switch with the help of cables. We type of these copper cables can generally be cat By the way, cat six cables are faster than cat On the other hand, in addition to copper cables, And it is important to note that fiber optic copper cables in data transmission. This there is a crucial point to be aware of. Please and if you want to connect we must definitely use a cable that has generally tried to say is with wireless technology, you only work with cables. This is very vital you have to use cable to connect your devices to to connect computers in the same environment to you can use an access point device in If I switch or an access point device. In order to connect all acceptable for this purpose. The only difference wireless technology while switches use in this environment. And we can connect these just like you see in the picture. Or in the instead of a switch device. And if you use an technology instead of cables while communicating or an access point device enable these seven but one uses cable and the other one uses wireless right now is we generally use copper cables in the environment such as a home or office. By instead of the access point device in discourse, can communicate with each other which is because And this means that they created a network. In can communicate with each other is all of them network as local area network or briefly, LAN. connected together in non physical location, such if you want to create a LAN, this location must you cannot create a LAN between computers located On the other hand, this area is very suitable computers can communicate with each other because this search search, we can deduce that if you want using a switch device, we can create a local area area network all over the world, we can easily you might think that all the houses in the world in your house or your neighbor's home also has a work. Okay, you catch the idea. And now let's take And what this event actually represent. Let's say the way, the messages generated by computers has a and some people call them as frame both of them instead of frame. Okay, PC one, you set a packet first goes to the switch, and then the switch destination of the packet. And finally, the And if pc one can set a packet to the PC six, this each other. The logic is basically this if a this refers to these two computers are on the same This information is so crucial guys, only this switch image, what the switch device mind. For this reason, we will now examine this This is the real version of a switch device. on a switch device This is important also the another switch device. I mean different switches have 10 ports, while some switches have more than an increase in price. Okay. By the way, these LAN ports. This probably makes sense to you 3g devices. For this reason, I think it is so by connecting these computers to these ports, there are LAN ports on the back of our just like these LAN ports, you can see And to establish a connection between computers computer and the LAN port on the switch with start with this port and PC one, then, let's let's connect this port and PC three. And finally, and PC four. Wonderful. And currently, these how exactly does this communication happen? From let's say pc one master communicate with PC far packet will go to this part of the switch first. give the packet to the hardware inside the switch packet, our loves his destination. After that is connected to PC far. And finally, the switch And to summarize, currently, we have thanks to this switch. This means we have created easily communicate with each other. Since they're software. And the switch device is visualized there is a little issue here. Let me explain. same network. And we have only talked about the talked about how these computers can connect to computers communicate with the internet just will be the question that we are looking for an In our previous lesson, we briefly talked about do we create a network and I said that we can But the problem is currently these computers they cannot communicate with the internet, because and enable the communication of the devices in the remove this lamp statement from the visual because we can work more comfortably. Wonderful. And computers to the internet. And this is where the main task of the router is to enable computers is impossible for us to connect to the internet. in order to provide a connection to the Internet. router. And this cable is a copper cable. Just what we have to do isn't over we still can't because we need a connection between the water a special cable comes to our homes or offices provider and takes to this cable. We connect internet service service provider. Don't worry, all you need to know is the internet this cable for a certain amount of money so that so currently, we have everything necessary to hams, let's see the basic tasks of the switch and computers in the office can communicate with each pc one was to communicate with PC five, for the PC five, sir, is you know, the packet firstly learns the destination of the packet. And finally, And there we go. This is how two computers in the always remember, a switch device is enough in the same land. On the other hand, a router has in the same line, like PC One and PC five. This events. And however guys, what if pc one was to what will happen if pc one first to send a you should remember this information. If a This means that this computer communicates with you exactly understand the logic of this event another point, these two points can communicate. how will pc one send packets to the internet. its packet to the switch just like before, because the router, right? I mean, if pc one was to send the router no matter what, because the router is Hence, if pc one wants to communicate with the first. After that, the switch looks at inside wants to go to the internet. So it sends And then the router firstly looks at the inside to go to the internet. And afterwards, it sends there we go. By the way, if you're aware, we have into this port, this is our base. I believe that manner, how the cables coming to router like this there are some ports on router, and you need to I will not show this visually, because isn't important for you. At this moment, you just And as a result, PC one sent its packet to the communicated. And the device that helped us to I believe that you understand the most basic the information may be useful However, I want to ask you two questions. My in your mind? And the second question and these will be the equations that we are going Before discussing the meaning from a computer perspective, I think it is helpful Because if you're really starting from scratch, you may not know exactly what the internet is. for a better understanding. To do this, in this on the internet. By the way, keep in mind that to make the concept is the john deere stat. complex than you see individual. But with this of the event very well, I promise you. And is you can see, there are many routers on the this. So at this moment, I would like to give you is a device required for a computer or you know this definition. On the other hand, you communicate with your computer in another part the device we use to communicate with a computer there is a LAN here, right. And there is we can draw the following conclusion connecting to the another computer located anywhere in the is the structure that connects all the lands you can think of the internet is a structure that know, there are millions of lamps connected to hope that everything is good so far, but there's ask you a question. Why are there so many routers you should know that these routers are distributed routers aren't the only devices in the structure. other different devices in this structure, routers is enough for us in order to understand question that comes to your mind is probably As a matter of fact, the answer to this question we use to enable different lands to communicate internet, we can connect all the laughs in the it makes perfect sense to use many routers to These last few see are just two of the millions summary, if the internet must connect millions it needs routers. I hope you got this. And router for the internet, you probably think of probably comes to your mind is why there are And I think this is a more critical question on the ratio. But before answering this question, catch your attention. Please look carefully at As you can see these last on the visual one device no switch in the environment, how can there be a How can it be connected to the Internet, and The home router is a common device consisting devices in the last hour mix of the switch and we don't need an additional switch. And Roger, like a home or small office. This is important. enough for us in small environments, or if there I showed you home router, because most and you connect to the internet by using home what these devices are in order to avoid there are too many devices in the environment, may need additional switch and router, you catch why there are so many routers, instead of just router in the middle of the world, instead of In this case, millions of electronic devices to the same router. This is obvious, this means isn't it. And it is impossible to design such addition to it, if there was only one router, won't be on that router. And this is another we don't want to give all too lot on a single point of failure. And this is a problem that needs Let me give you an example. Imagine this router the whole world is crashing down at the same time, connect all this around the world. Rule two broke that simple. Just think about the consequences of right. And so far, we have talked about two vital is the cable length problem. Imagine how long the in the middle of the world, especially LANs that very long cables. This is obvious, right? design. And the solution for all these problems you catch the idea. But to make sure you fully I want you to do an exercise, I want you to the problems we talked about shortly before, I'm I asked you a question at the end of the previous situation. But let's do it together just in case middle of the world, we will have problems with we will need made alone cables for less that are see in this structure, the cables don't have to Actually, of course, we can need long cables the other structure. After all in this structure, this is reasonable However, this is by no means other end right. And while we only connect we will connect millions of lamps to the we will need a lot of Furlong cables to a single coming to the giant router from millions of lamps by using this structure. we minimize the everything is good. But what about a lot of process is very efficient in the distributed well. And in addition to load balancing, it solves example, this router, this router, this router and internet continues to work properly, right? Only when there is only one router, and if this router this was very bad. So I believe that consistency the internet. And now, I want to show you a visual and different continents. With this visual, you These cables are very important, especially for ocean between them. And this visual represents we use 99% of all international communication on late under the water. This is very crucial guys. while others are around 20,000 kilometers long, these cables can cause the Internet of a whole it was happen such an event in 2018. And I I want you to focus on this red cable. that starts in France or reaches third Africa. on the west coast of Europe and Africa to each 10 of these countries crashed down when And I think this was a definitely a tragic karmic is not the only problem that happens to cables, long cables spread all over the world. So, there nearly 200 problems are encountered each year. or natural disasters. And there is a fun reason let me explain in 2007, see pirates stall 11 Vietnam and Hong Kong to each other. And they And I think this event is more surprising than Now, I have back to the first slide, because there cables generally represent intercontinental if you look at Russia, land cables are not visible Of course, there are cables and they are just ignored in this image. I mean, you how devices from different continents Also not that all of these cables under waters data transmission cable type is fiber optic must occur at the highest speed, right. And is well the length of the copper cables increases, increases as well. On the other hand, even they transmit the data to its destination almost why fiber optic cables are used over long for you to understand what the internet really in your Might, because no matter you need to grasp this basic subject. Actually, lesson. But I don't want to extend this lesson off in the next lesson, that will be a very In this lesson, we are going to discuss how a you will understand how to devices in different we will see this on an example, let's say this computer in Atlanta. Okay. In other words, let's packet to this computer. So, this packet must go because our destination is the art of land one I is Atlanta, and we can set our packet over the exactly first, this computer sends the packet to this switch looks at the destination address of the packet to the router and after the raw content of it and learns his destination address. to the internet because the destination of the router must start the packet to this router that for LAN one to connect to the internet, I mean, internet, it must send the packet to this router you can think of this link is the connection of cut somehow the devices in land one cannot access things will get a little complicated. So please reaches this router, the packet has three path right this is obvious but the question is And in order to answer this question, first router must have a special table inside called a router looks at its routing table to learn which it should be this path, this path or this path. firstly, draw to receives the packet from all these cables that come to the router are the raw to receive the packet rotor learns the an appropriate port according to the information forwarding is the result every router needs to it must forwards the packet. In other words, need to have information that which part a packet fundamental task of the rhotic table. Each router routing table is created by this special processor determine the path that's a packet mascar. to the routing table. Okay, is the result. This which path the packet must be forwarded one, this decision, it always ignores the path that to forward the packet back the way it came from. table of this router, the packet must be forwarded this router needs to look at its routing table to routing table save the packet must be forwarded right. And there we go. If you are aware, the to be the same in every router until the packet off this router must look at its routing table to let's say router choose patwon. So the Wonderful. And at this moment, please listen part here. When you look at the packets you probably think of the most reasonable path to be able to access this router that is right. And if we choose path one, for example, we can go to this route. Or if we choose path from here, we can go to this router similarly. to this router. And this is what we want. But First of all, never forget that routers always as fast as possible. So if this router chooses unreasonable to you at the beginning, I understand you are just using your eyes. However, routers tables. And these algorithms have many variables, situations when they are creating routing tables, this structure, okay. So when routers create the the number of points when choosing the shortest important. And I want to give an example to you routers control the traffic of the links they in terms of packet density, rotor will not set there may be an excessive density on the path Okay. And syst Road who knows this line is it may decide that it is more convenient set we call this situation congestion control. As a result, the router says the packet the number of points that the packet with the selection of path three, the packet Don't forget this. And after this moment, let And this router knows that the packet will go to the half. Okay, by the way you can think of this knows that the packet came to this computer. Wonderful. As you can see, two devices located in other. Thanks to the internet, we can communicate the belt text to the internet. I'm talking about that's the main reason of why the internet is one I hope I was able to explain intuitively what something else very important that I have to say. internet. The internet is the network of networks. of networks. I believe that you got this but I to you. Firstly Think about your own heart, maybe the internet, for example, computers, mobile and many, many more. Similarly, most people have home, just like you, right? In the same way, that has a huge number of devices. And you know in all over the world. So as you notice, spread all over developed. And all these lands on the combination of all these networks stand for the combination of all these networks stands we are talking about a huge system in which used to communicate with each other. By the way, on the visual, we call this the structure that and you will see such a representation. In many order to represent the internet. But in fact, formed by a combination of all these networks this is very crucial guys. What I'm trying to you should think that there are millions even if these lands don't appear individual, that includes all lands in the world. reason have to bookish definition of the Wonderful. And you can think of this attractor when we connect this land, to the heart of the included in the internet, and it can communicate you catch the idea. So far we have learned what But what exactly does connecting to the internet we are going to discuss this question in Now, we are going to discuss the meaning computer's perspective. And I believe that it assume that we are in a home instead of Therefore, to be able to connect to the internet. there is no need for a switch. Since we don't this home. Wherever it by the way, if you want, we device. Because if you are aware, we want to use don't need to use the switch feature of the home in the environment. I believe currently you know logical to you. Therefore, I will assume that from now on. And so far, you have learned is determined by whether related computer can I will try to make this situation more on the udemy.com website. Right? I mean, and entering udemy.com on your favorite web watching right now or any video you want to watch. your computer creates a packet and says this packet firstly is sent to home router. And then over the Internet, and we can think of this green request message gives information to udemy.com this is very crucial. And after udemy.com receives video, it's naturally realizes that you want related video to you over the internet. And there the video that you may sell to you. In other by the way, there is a very important thing are watching any video on Udemy Udemy sells it streaming. I think you have heard of this concept you can most videos uninterruptedly are without by piece sunning process better. Now, I have that the video is being sent to my computer from to send videos piece by piece, we can most video computer. For example, imagine you want to watch a is so slow. If you couldn't watch this video, it will be very bad for you, right? Fortunately, And in addition, this transmission time The first or our internet speed is, the sooner the I hope in this way you have a better is a result connecting to the internet refers to can receive some packets from the internet. And plays a very important role. The home router gives Internet, and gives the packets it receives packet transmission is the basis of connecting on the other side of the world. Meanwhile, when we computers that actually belong to the udemy.com. servers do not differ fundamentally from normal exchange packets with 1000s of normal computers at computers in terms of hardware compared to normal access udemy.com at the same time. I mean, too same time. And at this moment, let me tell you if you remember, we talked about the importance before. And this is true for servers, a few the world. Udemy has a lot of servers distributed of one of these servers is the best for you and that simple is the result, when you want to enter of the suitable Udemy servers for you. So while some of you will communicate with a different get the same content, therefore takes the of failure and provide load balancing. Please there are many details behind the transmission is the simplest logic and That's all I need In this lesson, we will shortly talk about which is a very important type of network for the is a network consisting of a combination combination of these two lands, we can create and this lesson, we can create another van. Okay. we can talk about the company example. Let's offices in different parts of the world. And we if they are far apart. And this is where the wide can create a special network for our requirements. another land. And they are located in different for our company by using these two lands. But Let's say our boss wants us to establish a the computers in these two different offices to our guy is van, if we create a van, these lads can But there's an important point to we can already enable these last two communicate network of networks. This means that the internet together. Hence, if these last are already and computers in land two can already communicate the question is if these offices can already why we need another special network is a van. directly. And communication over a special van So I want you to think about that question If you have noticed, the internet is has no owner and it belongs to everyone. Any and wherever he wants. For this reason, it is security related problems in information transfer are everywhere, and they are in And to be able to answer the question I just asked Let's say this computer wants to send an important And after the file is sent to this computer, there process took place within this land. This an outsider cannot read access this land without file transmission operation in this land is good so far. But what will happen if this file Let's see. Now the scenario is the same again, but this time, we must send this file to the the file persists through the public network, Just think about it. This part of the internet if you sell the file over the internet like the outside sight can't see this file or worst, As I said before, hackers are everywhere and the Hence, it is important to remember that there is a about the company over the internet directly, about the company, it is very vital to be careful, to such problems. In general, setting up a van there are various methods of setting up a van. and cost effective van methods and this method is VPN before. It stands for virtual private network. websites, because we pn ensures our anonymity, Hance. This gives us high security in general. we take advantage of these features of VPN. about VPN is the tunneling. This feature of VPN us by creating a special network connection over a I want to repeat this again. VPN tunnel link by creating a special network connection over a physical tunnel isn't created here. This the packet acts as if it is going through a this is not a physical tunnel. This tunnel visual between land one and lanter. You can think of for the high security for the connection By the way, of course, the packet will pass order to reach its destination, just as you have it will be almost impossible to interfere I hope that you get the tunneling conceptually, we start our file to the right. And there we go. on the packet. But before doing these changes, is set up between these routers, this is very This method is very popular while creating a van safe reaches lanter. You know, but the question as shown in the picture, what exactly is it? Let's say you need to send a letter from land one to to a postman, right, the postman can take this not putting this letter in an envelope. This he wants. This is obvious, you can think of the On the other hand, if you had put this letter in this way, the postman wouldn't be able to of putting the letter in an envelope represents we had to put this yellow packet into another packet is in the red packet is just like putting about tunneling wanderful. And in this moment, is that is this packet, really in safe right and find out the information in it. If he really right. Even though We have increased the security still some problems. And this is where encryption letter in a way that only people working in even if the postman opens the envelope, he cannot understandable data, he will not understand the very simple, right, we must encrypt the original So, let me back one step on Dynamesh. And for before putting it in the red packet. And then we Now, finally, this packet is sent to them to It's that simple guys. We encrypted the origin we maximized the security of the pact, because packet is safe is if it was moving in concept understandable to you. And at this moment, And to be able to do this router first eliminates decrypt the encrypted packet so that it cannot gets the original packet, it looks inside the packet to his destination. And there we go is the we can securely search company related information there is no such thing as 100% security. This for every system. However, currently, Van are quite satisfactory, in terms of everything is good so far. But some of you curious I constantly use the internet in daily life. I and I do all of these over the internet. are all these operations insecure? The Assume that you want to make an operation on some information about your credit card. While be sent as a packet over the Internet to one don't want anyone from the outside to see the to this. And add to add encryption method is used And since the packet is encrypted, nobody from credit cards except the server of amazon.com. encryption. All of the endpoints can decrypt However, this kind of encryption was not used hackers. Imagine that the information about your pure text. This is terrible, right? But text to And finally, I'm going to ask you a question. And what when is right, in summary van repossessed the in this case. My question is, what is the largest to your mind rapidly isn't it? The internet itself However, I want to remind you again, please note from the internet. While one of these vans is owned by everyone in the world. And yeah, that's We have learned a lot of information about we will look at a few more cases, by offices belongs to the same company. And suppose If you are aware, this distance is very short. In we can connect switch one and switch two directly we can definitely do this because as you know we can create a LAN by connecting these not in the same environment. But please note that If this distance, were not too short, it is a LAN. Meanwhile, these types of lands can be these types of networks are generally used on know that we can also connect these two offices when our LAN or different kinds of network types, with tunneling in the animation. And there we go. want to ask you a question. Which one do you think connecting villages directly? Please think about The answer is source. Simple, isn't it? a LAN communication within the land, the packet never on our own cable. On the other hand, even the packet still persists over the internet. 100% security, even if the packet is protected both of these methods are secure. But However, there is a condition that event is for this type of fan. By the way, we haven't this is different from manmad VPN, because the you request this line from the ISP and give gives you a private line that only your company his private van. Okay. And please remember that VPN. And that's why we also call them each VPN even if private van sounds great, it the first it makes sense for an average company to prefer public van provides us security that we definitely I want you to pay attention to one point. Some of good to mention. In any case, we will switch to create a van. This is very vital. I want to while we use Rogers to create a van. This means Because a van fundamentally represents connection glass can act as if they are in the same to connect different plants, we definitely need And now I want to talk a little bit about ratar o an internet related device. However, it isn't the networks. That said, you should realize that these or maybe in the same office, it really doesn't different plants in the same office are connected Suppose that one of these networks is and the other relate to the software unit. networks to communicate with each other, you can see that land one Outland, through Great. And here, I want to give you additional the cables of the router. If you are aware, each one of the cables is connected to LAN one, one of cables is connected to the internet. This is the networks, you know, for this reason, each cable different network. Okay. By the way, you may have the same office. As a matter of fact, this you may want different units in the office to for an office suite for computers. However, dividing these computers into units increases is you can see the basic principles are the same we can enable devices in different parts of the in the same office to communicate, both of understand this concept very well. And that's all In one of our previous lessons, I told you, we ISP, but I haven't mentioned what exactly ISP what is the ISP and why it is so important. is responsible for the transmission of packets we have learned that there are a lot of routers this structure. And you can think of the ISP as in this structure. For example, there are Similarly, there are many routers in this region visually show routers within the ISP s. However, around the world are controlled by these ISVs controls specific routers, and packets are sent routers. We previously talked about how the packet understanding this situation is the first trying to say is certainly SPS are responsible every ISP you see in this picture is responsible from the visual for the simplicity of the is a simplified model. But even if the model important parts of the concept. Let's start with companies that serve us so that we can connect certain fee for this service. You cannot connect the structure that allows you to connect to the are hundreds of 1000s of ISVs in the world, and you see individual, there is few ISP individual I of 1000s of ISP s in real life. The most common to start with it. The first step of connecting ISP. And local ISPs are generally responsible communications of two different plants in the same neighborhoods close to each other. Let's say we in the same neighborhood. If this computer wants is provided directly over this local ISP. This The packet passes through different routers But in general, since the local ISP is areas, the packet can also pass through all the can think of this local ISP is the ISP that Of course, a local ISP can connect different let's say it doesn't, therefore, one router can in this visual, you can see an example of a Point of Presence or briefly pop. In fact, effect in these paths. And in this fab. In other words, addition, you have probably noticed that there are must do different configurations with different servers, and so on. But the device we use to right you know, for this reason, we will only Reuters on the internet visual, were actually And in order to explain this better, I want to I want to think of different houses and offices mean, you both talk about the thoughts, you got home and small office connect to a pop over local connect to the internet for this home. And this if you are aware, locally, SB two has four paths, Locally SB two connects different neighborhoods. can communicate over local SB two effectively. And Some local asbs can have more than one path. one path. This depends on the size of the connects four different neighborhoods, it may connects all the one neighborhood, it has all the more detailed studies on this topic, you will see you should be aware that these icons actually pops distributed all of our developers and At this moment, I want you to imagine that there And these local SPS Connect regionally space localized space communicate over regionalized with local SP three over the regional SP one. Connect neighborhoods and regional SPS I want to repeat this again, you can think of areas and regionally space Connect cities. In a SP in this simplified model we use. But in real and all local SPS and regional SPS, combined In summary, the first step to connecting to the the line we purchased from the local ISP, right? from the relevant ISP to connect to the internet. you can see the cable coming from your this computer and this computer want to these two homes are located in the USA, but they are connected to different local ISP. how will this local SV communicate with this the regional SB one comes into play. In general, devices in the same countries, but in different local asbs communicate over the region And at this moment, some of you may be wondering local SB three, this is not expected question. these directly, the hierarchy is broken. I mean, but in real life, there can be middleclass peace, together, complexity will definitely occur. And system, it is already quite complex, isn't it. ISP structure is you see individual with the we ensure that all ISP is communicate with each about the local ISP, and regionalised. Also, were always in the USA. But what if computers in other. And this is where the global SP comes into devices in different countries in general, is, you So if a device in the USA, and a device in China provides this connection, you cannot connect these And as you can see in the image, there are these are the part of the hierarchy. And by using each other. Let's assume that this computer wants the packet will first go to the local ISP, ISP one. And the packet has two options at this globally, SB one or global SB three, I hope you by the routers in the regional SP one, each router the Reuters path is determined. Let's say the there we go. By the way, another packet that the global SB three next time. Who knows let's say that the packet will be sent from And at this stage, the packets can be sent SB two or global SB three. Either way, it will the packet can follow different paths. And I from global SB two to local SB six, regional from global SB two to three regionally SB two, SB two To globally SB three, regional SB two, are suitable paths. You should If the destination of the packet was this harm, over local SB six without going over regionalist can connect with global ad space. Without a local ad space represents small companies. And direct connection with a global ASV to provide Actually, there are two ways for this kind of directly with a global ISP, its location I mean, related global ISP can already have an related global ISP doesn't have an infrastructure paid for disconnection by the local ASB company And for this packet on the global ASB through, of local SB six or global SB three. Okay, from there we go. As you can see, locally, SB seven Therefore, locally, SB seven knows that where it receiving the packet sends it to the destination computers in two different regions of the world the relationship between the internet routers we are going to cover two more scenarios related Let's say we are in Belgium. This is our home. called ABC x.com. The owners of the website have have all the answer we're on the USA. So to be pass over at least one global ASP This is obvious, And after the server of the ABC x.com receives creates a response message. This response message to enter. It includes images, videos, HTML file, if you don't know what an HTML file is, you can simplest manner, and after generating the response the path preferred by the response message by the request message. Please pay attention to the exact path of a message beforehand. Since I'm in the park for a message is always determined received the response message, the website appears to enter a website, you first sent a request server receiving your request message sends you about the web page you want to enter. And then all information from this response message and And the surprising thing is, every time you want However, since this process takes place in are complex operations in the background. And now and see what happens. You know, Google is quite company, for instance, unlike ABC x.com, Google And with this distributed server structure, Google to its customers. And let's say one of these when you want to enter google.com, or when we will probably connect to this server, which is failed way much faster. In fact, this is the in different locations around the world. in the fastest and most efficient way. And the for such a desire. I believe you catch the idea. our request message will go to this server the related server with the help of ISP. Yes. And Google sends us a response message related the time for Google to communicate with the Google. And Google wants to increase this very good solution for this kind of issue called peering is the technique, which Google ISP to provide faster access to eat servers. As directly with the local asbs. Thus, when we able to communicate directly with Google servers Google can communicate with the customers much everything is good. But what about security, through decreases, takes the period, security directly to Google via local ISP. In other words, to communicate with Google. Remember that security obvious that this direct connection decreases from the outside. Wonderful. And last, but is you know, YouTube is owned by Google. So you are actually using Google's distributed aware that YouTube works very efficiently by you it very well, you will be interrupted whatsoever. structure and the appearing infrastructure of freezes and interruptions, while watching videos as strong as Google in general. Of course, Udemy number is probably not as many as Google This is And you know that peering is a very efficient quality and speed a lot. But I can say that Udemy serving millions of people at the same time is In summary, peering is a very effective structure and so on. He's got the point. And finally, I ISP is you know, global ASB are responsible for although definitely not as many as the regional you can guess that the technical reasons in the world. We have talked about similar like load balancing And efficiency. There I mean, setting up a global ASB company is a makes its honor a lot of money. You know what establishing a global ASB company is a good By the way, we also call the internet backbone to familiarity to internet backbone term can be there are structures called internet exchange to work synchronously for global a space to And we brief the call these structures And the last thing I want to mention is that In order to connect to the internet, you or global ASB if these ISP have a service for which ISP is our serving value live and make absolutely your decision to choose the ISP service our home and we connect to the internet via local directly to the internet via regional SP one, if you want to get your ISP service from a certain location, you can contact the company and talk money to the ISP company, most regional ISP and that set. But for normal users, this is where of two ISP services in their location and benefit a local ISP company, such a move may make sense. I think you got a lot of good information. about the ISP on the internet. However,