Can your NLE remix music on the fly, save underexposed images remove background single click, the need to render, and give you world-class color A lot of people are deciding to use not just for color different strengths. better. If you have Resolve, you might be 1. The amount of new NLE, 2. Is there projects, and 3. Does it do everything I need it to? I'm here Whiching might be three reasons why. art form. The how to structure takes ages to learn. The technical stuff, where to find that is much simpler. Secondly, there's a CutTool and Premiere does in Resolve. It In Resolve, it's lot of instances, And finally, where Resolve is different, there's usually a any time you spent make you a quicker Here's our goal. however confident you you're going to be even 10 times more Let's start at the beginning and load Resolve. To create a Resolve's interface page is built for a production Edit page where you're here. But if you you'll do that in to color create, Color page. We're This page is built for In Premiere our that you're is by dragging it into You can work the same way in Resolve. I'm going to drag this entire But you can see it's kind of emptied out the contents of that So let's undo that. This time, if I do this section over the bin list or it's respected how in those folders and It's such a cool feature and can save you time if you've on your drive. Just like live preview make Just hover over the Premiere doesn't have If you don't like this This option is up here. In other NLEs, your interface to management and tools. I love how Resolve makes that This entire management and it's or color grading tools because, well, they're not needed at Thus far everything Switching seems pretty easy. So now let's focus on This media is in log. Maybe you're used to working In Resolve, there's no need for that, as Resolve can handle those This little cog down here is where In the color tab, there's an awesome feature we Choose the option in this menu It's as simple as that. Hit save and check this out. My footage now looks correct. It's no longer dull and gray. This is because Resolve has and normalized it The A camera has The B camera footage It's still dull, flat, and gray. That's because it's from an older So I'm going to need to manually but that's super easy. Let's do it. I can do all the clips at the same time. I'll select them all and then Look at all of these different without the need for LUTs or plugins. This footage is in ARRI There you go, done. I want to emphasize how huge this is. Instead of having to convert it's color manage them And remember, when you use LUTs, you Resolve color If you want to learn more about that, check out our While we're talking about There's two places where Settings that project settings the one I've already showed you. Things like timeline settings can This makes it super the resolution of Of course, you can also have their own This concept of being able to is probably new for It's such a helpful feature, The second place settings These settings affect I want to show you one of my Here it is. Fortunately, it's Have you ever lost an entire and then your computer crashed? That's usually when But Live Save is even better because it doesn't interrupt you while And then on top of that, it's it's saving anytime you make a change. It saves instantly. You never need to lose your work again. You'll want to make sure project and timeline backups. They save your timelines and meaning you can or to a timeline There's actually one These are your keyboard shortcuts. They're so important There's even presets here for But I'm going to work with Now, this is some pretty These clips are red code raw. Resolve has pretty amazing codec support. In Resolve, it's all built in. And this Mac I'm It's from 2019, but it Now, what if your computer can't? Not a problem. You can create proxies. And there's a dedicated app I'll point at the folder where my This would be a good opportunity to But if you don't have time for the proxy generator the background If Resolve needs to use your processor, the proxy generator As the proxies generate, you'll see these little pink And then this control up here, this allows you to choose whether Resolve uses the proxies or Simple as that. Resolve has amazing media management. When working with lots of Instead of moving it's best practice to add There's lots of ways to do this. I'm going to show When you select a clip, its metadata appears in the tab If yours isn't open, Let's change the view to These fields are all editable. As this clip is of Perfect! It's quick to enter metadata So I'll select all the other Hit save and... On! There's also Let's add the keywords And I should enter keywords like these stretching shots on cam A... And cam C. Here's the cool thing. Resolve automatically makes smart So now I have options. I can find the clips by Or better yet, I can I've associated with each. And because the dancing clips and keyword smart bins way of finding them If you're coming of organization will as Final Cut has If you're coming from Premiere though, I think you're going because the metadata system in Okay, we've ingested our media, we've done some preliminary organization, let's start editing. It's time to move to the edit page. First, let's create a new timeline. This little checkbox the settings we configured This is when I can if I want this For now, I'm happy to This should look really familiar if you're coming from Premiere. Look, it's a track-based editor. If you're coming from Final Cut, it will look a little less familiar, but that's because but honestly, you won't have a problem. Different edits have different drivers. This video is going to so we'll start by editing the interview. First things first, so we should make a multicam. The A and B angles of the To create multicams, you need to see both angles in the You're going to love this. Hold down on Command or and then click on Now both bins are selected, and you can see It's small features like this that really make me I'll select both clips, right-click, and go to Create New Multicam Clip. There's different ways If you have good audio, you As these clips have let's choose that option. And as easy as If I double-click on it, and you can see that both ...mind into something Without a doubt, one of my favorite You can select any dialogue. I'm going we just made. Yes, it Now hit the quickly. Look at can use this Just click and the source playhead I don't want to say the idea of being perfect, but you become It's even detected interviewer, and the to make the transcript easier to If there's a comment and click insert. timeline. Here's an Instead of finding the comments I by highlighting them and pressing delete. Now, if I select transcript and hit edit this section into the interview timeline, removing the inserting the bits you see why this is You'll want to sometimes words can is still needed. Now, let's go over the You're going to love how simple they are. Premiere has seven Select, cut, roll, It's a lot. Final cut, it's five. Resolve simplifies all Selection mode, trim Blade edit mode is for chopping clips up. Selection mode is for You can also use it The problem is that selection mode tool leaves gaps in your See, look at that. Sometimes you want I'll undo that and show you This brings us to the trim edit mode. If you're coming from Final because it will remind If you're coming from because it combines all If you click on the top of a If you click on the bottom of a If you click and drag on an edit point at the end of a clip, And if you click and drag the edit And on top of that, visualizations with that shows you the clip's handles. This is the great thing In some cases, it's a lateral transition. In a lot of You're learning tools but in many cases, In the instance of the editing tools, there's less clicking It just makes sense. Do you like to use several timelines when you're building out your edits? It can help keep things tidier sometimes. So let's do that. Let's make a Can you do things like Of course you can. Your tried and tested workflows from Premiere and I'll use one of those keywords SmartBins I created in the media Don't forget, if turn them on up here. I can double click on a clip, it loads it into the source viewer, and then make in and out points. I love using the I And then I can There's also this called Live Preview. You saw this when I can hover over the clips, and while I'm scrubbing through, I can hit I and O to and then drag that are you even better? Use my hotkey to This is awesome because it allows us to work with less clicks. If you're coming from Final Cut Pro, that's gonna feel so familiar. Let's move to the dancing Smart Bin. You can also throw multiple clips into the timeline You can also edit Check this out. I'll select them all to bring up the clip duration dialogue, and hit the five second button. It's adjusted them all simultaneously, but whoa, that's left all of these gaps. That's because I Let's undo that and That's better. As you can see, tools in depending on what edit mode you're in. Right, I have a of my footage is in so it's displaying said I was going to cool it is to be able affect the entire In project settings can change the way have mismatched Full Frame with Crop clips are screen. No more more time to do in Premiere Now here's You can load We like to call that pancake editing. And yep, you can do The timeline view Turn on stacked timelines. Now you can add a second timeline And choose which timelines I can copy or drag I'll drag some of my B-roll And then I can continue to use the trim selection and blade If you're working on a complex edit, this kind of This edit is so But I wanted to show you how Instead of making you I'm going to jump ahead But with the twist, it's Did you know that Resolve can import your Premiere Pro edits and This is really significant to note. You can move edits from Avid, In fact, it has the best Period. It's super easy. Here we go. File, Import, and here's We'll say OK to this This is a nice short 30 second edit. It even has some music along with it. Let's talk about Final Cut Pro has motion. Premiere Pro has They're all separate programs. Resolve has fusion and fairlight. Best thing yet is that it's Let's deal with audio first. There's two big problems. The interview has background noise. And the music has vocals. And I want it just to be instrumental. So let's start with problem one. If I solo the dialogue I started off like dance classes. It was like jazz and tap and all of that. But there was also And I think... Yeah, you can really tell. Listen to all that background noise. Not nice. I don't think you're ready for Select the track. Turn on voice isolation. I started off like dance classes. It was like jazz and tap and all of that. But there was also And I think... Sounds pretty amazing, doesn't it? This is a studio feature, by the way. Now let's also to even out the volume of the interview. It's going to even out This is another studio feature. So problem one, sort it. Problem two, let's fix the music. We'll solo the music It's a great song, but the Again, let's select the This time we'll turn on the music [music] Incredible! I can refine it further by getting rid of other (upbeat music) Now there are other but they usually use the tool and then re-import it. This is all built and there's no additional cost. Yes, these are studio but remember, a dedicated audio plugin, just one of the tools I've just demoed might cost $100 a year. You're getting all of these tools, plus the audio plus all the crazy for a one-off cost of just under $300. Putting the incredible price aside, by removing those friction points, it means you have more Not gonna go into detail, but if you need even just switch over to the Fairlight page. Any changes you make back in the edit page. Let's add some effects. There's a ton of things For example, I so the title on top stands out better. So let's use the Gaussian Blur effect. Find it in the Effects tab. I like searching for it. Now simply drag it onto the clip. Easy peasy. Because the title comes let's animate the We'll add a keyframe And then add a keyframe a little later where the blur is turned off. Just like Premiere and Final Cut, wherever you see this diamond icon, that means this property can be animated. Let's see what it looks like. Fantastic, let's There's a bunch of I want to use this The default settings though If your system is not powerful Go to Playback and set Effects like these background so you Once it's done, this I guess it's kind of the refinement of... Again, this should feel super Both systems have built-in Where is it different? And premiere our final cut When you hit that You either have to buy plugins or move to another program That's not the case with Resolve. In Resolve, when the going gets Check this out. I'm going to do I have a poster I want My play head is over the clip. I'm going to click on that clip is Welcome to the Fusion page. This part of As a result, there's And this whole thing be confusing when you Here's a quick 30 second introduction. There's two viewers, just the On the right, your configure all the tools At the bottom, your node viewer is configure in what order We have a media in node because we're starting with the And we have a media out want to send the image All of the cool tools Simpler than you thought, right? I hope so. It will make even As the camera is moving, I can't It needs to be tracked in. Let's add something called a Can you see how it's I'll draw lines around the That's going to be the building as And then hit the track forward button. Now that the track is complete, we can switch the planar At this point, I'm going to want It's in my media pool and I can add I can equip the poster in the left This is a great place to There's two dots under On this node, the this node is being The final media out node in the it's showing that it's The planar tracker has That one's already connected. It also has an input for the That one's not connected yet. Let's connect the poster. I'll feed it into the planar tracker. Hey, now you can see it on the building. All that's left is to tweak its And now that's done, let's hit play. Eventually, I just On a good day, it That looks awesome. You know what's even more awesome? When I go back to the edit page now, my fusion No rendering, no It just works. Can you imagine how much time The color page works head to the color is even visible right away. This is known for its does this tool set Premiere and Final grading is to use Resolve has an entire page dedicated to color grading. It's interface is used on hundreds of millions same tools on your mean it has to be simple it can be shot. Firstly, it's exposure using the of them, but we're on the left. Each part of the image. effect on the dark targets the The gamma wheel It's probably most Premiere's Lumetri if If you're coming feel nice and different color in the image. To sure where to start, Let's give the I'd like to do I want to desaturate the I'll make a new node for this. I'm going to use the keyboard hotkey. That's Alt S. Now I need some way of masking her out. That would be super tedious to So that's no good. Let's use Magic Mask. This is a Studio feature. Select it from the toolset. I'm going to pop it into the Person mode. Draw a stroke on the subject you And I'll turn on the mask There you go. That's amazing. The rest of the image needs to be We can turn the overlay off. The primary saturation controls are over here, so let's turn But uh-oh, do you see how That's easy to fix. Just need to hit the button here in That's better. Want to see one more Show it to you on the next clip. Here's another studio feature. It's found in the It allows you to build The presets are pretty good though. I'll use the cinematic preset. When I'm done grading and I All my color grades are visible. But what if I want to change my edit? Not a problem. As I can extend the clips and I This has to be one of the Think about the amount of time you when editing in In Resolve, your is integrated into one program. So switching might but you'll make back because of how much more I've got one more thing to show you. Clicking home will take us back The way that Resolve When you work in Premiere, your You get to choose where that's stored. Final Cut is similar, your work In Resolve, you don't Instead, Resolve That's what this is. The project manager allows you That library can computer, on a I'm working in the cloud Library-based project First, I like to think it because you don't have to spend Secondly, it's what allows and automatic project backups to work. And thirdly, here's the biggest plus. It makes sharing and Let me show you. I'm going to need Leon's help for this. Come on, Leon. Hey everybody, I'm connected This is the project I can load the project at the same time. Once inside, I can even see what She's got the main timeline loaded. Now I can load that timeline. I can even play it. It was like jazz and tap and But I can't make changes. As hard as I try, these clips won't that would cause too Resolve locks the I only get timeline is locked for color grading. I the clips in this working. This is I'll head to the color quick grade to this contrast in the Master Wheels. I'm cast, add some Now that I've finished my back to the project just by And now Natalie should be able to It looks like Leon has If I hit the Look, there you go. Obviously, there's lots of other But again, if someone remotely, how much time do you spend or just waiting for someone else Resolve's library-based project How is that for you? In summary, there's a lot of I think you'll find it more But if it was exactly the same, It's got awesome features like voice A forever license to resolve is half And the entire post-production So no more wasting time, There are so many reasons to switch. If you've decided to make the change, how can you make that Let us be your guide. We've put together a comprehensive that you need to work in DaVinci Resolve. There's a staggering nine there's 52 awesome lessons, and Did you like the media that Well, that's all included in the course. Some courses only have a The problem is that when you don't get to problem-solve, and There's an incredible two hours If you're a working professional, it's important that you so you can get back to paid jobs. If you're a hobbyist, If you'd like to learn more, And even if the course isn't for you so you can be the first to hear Thanks for watching, and whatever