With a new Dreamworks movie characters to discuss. From slightly raccoons, there's plenty to enjoy in characters-so we've decided to do our thing We'll kick things off like we usually do with the most unsavory characters. These And weirdly enough, this movie's worst character Fink's Mother. Fink is a complex people due to his own lack of friends, to use others to his own devices. But in the reason for this is pretty much all but a hard time falling asleep during a storm, "rocking him to sleep"...which turns out to be Yeah...it's one of those instances until you consider the implications-and it desperate to stick by Roz's side. no-this isn't some scientifically accurate babies to sleep...and I can't believe I While they aren't as bad, we're giving the only surprised, though-I don't trust geese in them(with two-count 'em, two-exceptions) in this but these geese are just...a whole new breed of make fun of Brightbill for being different or "a reason you'd expect from bullies. But, like...they Roz...and for the fact that she killed his whole "Hey, nice dead parents, dweeb! Come on, boys, let's try to drown him!" You almost manage eating one of them...okay, not almost, later on doesn't earn them too much credit, But now, let's move onto the characters who won't make you root for homicide to occur in But kicking off this category is no ordinary here(I'm, like, 110% sure he doesn't have a name) The first appearance he makes is right at the she's here to kill the local wildlife, proceeds told no. Like...dude, she didn't even do anything. for that since, like the other animals, he's robot before. Plus, when a robot who actually is more than willing to use his kicking for good-so Speaking of poor first impressions, the these guys do is straight-up presumably for no other reason than because that's an absolutely valid reason. On the mugging someone for spare parts isn't cool. Like, have some serious learning to do about boundaries. their grubby paws to themselves, Roz wouldn't Speaking of morally-questionable species closing out the C Tier we ...Man, this...this feels dystopian. And it about humans in The Wild Robot universe so far and to streamline life to its fullest nothing can go wrong with relying on technology to Yeah...I'm sure the humans had the best robots will attack geese who are just...standing a more hostile view towards nature than I'd movie totally refused to wave back at Roz! Now, we can enter the characters we don't have cuddly, sometimes-cybernetic First up in this category is Brightbill's Thunderbolt. For being one of the only semblance of respect, Thunderbolt is pretty hesitate to help Brightbill accept his that said status doesn't prevent him from is why it's a shame that he only But sometimes, you don't necessarily need a for instance. As the first life-forms Roz sees creatures give us an up-close-and-personal look cooked up for this movie. Seriously-not only but they even start tinkering with Roz before when those lights come on. It's simple from how good of an introduction these From one cute entry to another, next up this little guy only really shows up during a To ask whether or not Roz is here to able to understand Roz right away, for cool! It's a shame nobody listened to there to kill them...even if, to be fair, it Closing out this category, we have one of two Rummage. I don't think there's enough emphasis effectively dead for presumably years, and was fully okay with teaching fellow robot offering a listening ear for her woes. she gives Roz her own retrieval flare so she can I think Rummage probably needs much more urgent like...was she just done living, at that point? Was she's pretty neat...just not quite enough We're reaching the MVPs of the the lesser greats of the bunch, the A First up in this category, we have local mother at this point in her life, Pinktail she's technically the whole reason Roz was able one who gave her the "task" to raise Brightbill Pinktail is-and understandably so-she still take care of themselves, which is a pretty there is the fact that she wasn't moved at all died right behind her...which, while it's played she was equally unbothered when she thought so maybe this is just some kind In any case, following her are her seven-oh, for their dedication to the art of playing dead, stuff, these kids fill the "kinda cute, kinda been running with lately. They're here enough to end up disliking them-which is a tough balance The most fearsome and fearless forest animal, The like he's shaping up to at least be a secondary him as they are of Roz, if not more so-and it's not hard to see why. But when a snowstorm the Bear is one of the first animals who agrees becoming friends with the other animals, also voiced by Mark Hammill, which...come And just outside of both the S Tier and the Vontra. Vontra is the outwardly friendly, retrieve Roz from the forest. While and a "sympathetic evil" one can be interesting, doing one who's...neither. Vontra is just doing her capturing Roz and her sweet, sweet memories-which, What boosts her up so high is not just but also the absolute terror she inflicts. fire by blowing up her own robot soldiers, but responsible for one of the most visually in all, she's a pretty decent antagonist-and she took at the end of the movie...or, But with the top five upon us, it's time to be the reason Dreamworks fans are gonna One of the movie's comic relief characters, example of one of those side characters who gets am I glad for that. While he initially seems Paddler turns out to be a way cooler guy leg helping Brightbill learn to fly, Paddler enough to last for pretty much the whole he has a fun vocal performance by Matt movie. He's one of those guys who's just way Just outside of the top three is the legendary tries to be civil with Brightbill and Roz, Longneck not only invites Brightbill to come but when trouble arises, he helps rally the He not only ensures that Brightbill but he was willing to sacrifice his life to that he's up in heaven, flying even higher...and Soaring over to the Bronze Medal of Greatness, tier lists where being an adorable baby on its own. Thankfully, Brightbill manages to first major task being to raise Brightbill to the you find yourself rooting for the little guy to swim and fly, or-most importantly-discovering Brightbill also works perfectly as the is the one who causes Roz to surpass her own where the two finally exchange a mother-son man. Like, "that one scene at the beginning beautiful. He's only at number three because While he's only the runner up for our is gonna be most people's top pick for I can't really blame them-every Dreamworks and Fink fulfills that role perfectly. But his own sense of heart-throughout the movie, Fink is what it means to love or be loved...until that is. The process of both gaining and better-he starts to stick up for others, like Walter White-style. And despite his initial through reluctantly helping Roz rescue the the courage to tell them all, in no uncertain untrustworthy guys in the forest was the one who together and stick together, and that makes it all of Dreamworks's greatest sidekicks to date-truly But the Gold Medal of Greatness has to go to Robot herself-Roz. Honestly, there's just...no way characters, but Roz is the very core of its main character is the core of the movie. But with a lot to still end up being the most memorable however, is a character who perfectly manages perfect lens through which to view the movie. gorgeous this movie is, right? The adorable baby butterfly scene that I am NEVER going to be able all seeing these things and being like..."whoa." So those sights than a robot who's literally just her? It identifies you with her right away, and whether it's sending Brightbill to an against Vontra and her legion of robot nukes. far-what really makes Roz special is the already programmed to be altruistic the arc she goes through isn't about her learning I guess, but it hits all the harder for the others because she HAS to, Roz now helps one of the most touching ways you could upgrade a a protagonist we're majorly hyped to see more