Hello friends! This recipe will help you young cabbage. Turn on subtitles to find out more! Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos? Cabbage was cultivated in ancient Egypt about 4,000 years ago. In ancient Greece and Rome, it was considered a medicinal plant that could cure various diseases. In the Middle Ages, cabbage leaves were used to treat wounds and to relieve pain and inflammation. Cabbage contains vitamins C, K, A and B6 as well as minerals such as potassium, calcium, magnesium and iron. Salt. Mashing and salting the cabbage helps distribute the salt evenly throughout the cabbage, promoting a consistent flavor in the final product. Olive oil. Fry for 5-7 minutes. Onion. Onions are rich in sulfur compounds that help lower cholesterol and prevent blood clots. Onions contain sulfur compounds that are released when chopped. They react with moisture in the eyes to form sulfuric acid, which causes irritation and tears. One way to prevent cracking is to cool the onion before cutting or use a sharp knife. If you like the recipe, be sure to send it to your friends and acquaintances! Cabbage can reach enormous sizes. In 2012, an Alaskan farmer grew cabbage that weighed more than 140 pounds (62 kg). Potassium and other trace minerals in cabbage help lower blood pressure and support cardiovascular health. Cabbage is rich in fiber, which promotes a healthy digestive system. Do you have a favorite recipe? Write it in the comments! Olive oil. Fry for 3-5 minutes. Carrots. Although we are used to orange carrots, they were originally purple, white, yellow or red. I use a special grater. The orange color of carrots became popular in the 17th century in the Netherlands, where they were bred to honor the House of Orange, the ruling dynasty. Carrots are rich in beta-carotene, which is converted into vitamin A in the body. Fry for 3-5 minutes. Garlic. In ancient Greece, garlic was so revered that it was used in religious rituals. Research has shown that garlic helps lower cholesterol and blood pressure. Garlic. hot pepper. Did you like the recipe? Show it to your friends! The spiciness of red peppers comes from a substance called capsaicin. Capsaicin stimulates the nerve endings in the mucous membranes, causing a burning sensation. Capsaicin not only causes a burning sensation, but also stimulates the release of endorphins - the happiness hormones. Capsaicin is also known for its thermogenic effects, which can speed up metabolism. Therefore, hot peppers are often included in weight loss diets. Potatoes 2 pieces. The vitamin C contained in potatoes strengthens the immune system and helps the body fight infections. I use a special grater. The potassium in potatoes helps regulate blood pressure, reducing the risk of hypertension and cardiovascular disease. The fiber in potatoes improves digestion, helps normalize bowel movements and prevents constipation. Vitamin B6 and other nutrients in potatoes support brain and nervous system health and improve cognitive function and mood. Squeeze out excess liquid. Squeeze out excess water to make the dish crispier and prevent it from absorbing too much oil. 3 chicken eggs. If you want to lose weight, be sure to subscribe to my channel! Salt. mix. green onion. Green onions contain fiber, which promotes digestive health and prevents constipation. Do you have a favorite recipe? Write it in the comments! The vitamin K and calcium in green onions support healthy bones and reduce the risk of osteoporosis. mix. 2 spoons of flour. mix. mix. If you like my recipes, you can support me! Become a sponsor of my channel! mix. Cheese 50 grams. Oops, the grater is broken. Cheese contains high-quality proteins necessary for growth, tissue repair and maintenance of muscle mass. Cheese is rich in calcium and vitamin D, which help strengthen bones and prevent osteoporosis. Olive oil. divide into two parts. Include a variety of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, proteins (fish, meat, eggs, legumes) and healthy fats (nuts, avocados, olive oil) in your diet. Cheese. Avoid processed foods that are high in sugar and fats. Fry for 3-5 minutes. Turn over using a plate. Olive oil. If you like my recipes, you can support me! Become a sponsor of my channel! Fry for 3-5 minutes. very tasty and healthy! Can be eaten for breakfast or dinner! will help you lose weight quickly! If you want to lose weight, be sure to check out the other videos on my channel!