What is the benefit of having it offset compared to just having it together? Sebastian, We're here in your factory Can you tell us Well, basically, the frame is, of course, made of steel. So it is the heaviest part of the trailer. As you can see here, the frames are stocked here all the parts to it. The frame themselves are produced welded by robots, laser cut, And the factory in Czech Republic So everything is in the hand Kogel So where we are looking at these chassis, container carriers, curtain-siders and like box trailers? Yeah, you can already make a difference at So for example, here we've got a Mega trailer You can see it already here because we have this step simply to reduce the to the height of the frame of the long beam Yeah. So the whole body is closer to the ground of the vehicle. Exactly that The volume will be increased. Okay. So the chassis comes already welded on to it and. Not completely Here we have welding part of our facility and so we are also and after The frame is moved to the blasting machine rust, dirt and oils and other stuff simply to get it Yeah. So I understand you have to prepare. You have to kind of clean it before you do dip it or do some chemical process of the chasis. Exactly. Okay. Just the frame to make the coating on it, because otherwise And this must be avoided on a So it seems like we have a frame here that's prepared Can you tell me about more about and how it helps Yeah. We have a base layer or 2 layers, The first one is nano ceramic, resisting against rust And the second layer is the dip coating called KTL which gives to avoid any damage on the frame. Then afterwards we can simply color it, or we will simply color it in any color So we can also do metallic colors, special towing truck metallic colors, with KTL dip coating. Also important about the dip coating and every corner, And we can guarantee this way a long life for the color and also against corrosion. Yeah, between between the nuts everything is coated very evenly and would you say like the rough surface Yeah. It's not only looking very well, It can be painted So that's a really good system. A modern system. And it will also last Yeah. I think it's very important a product that's durable so that you don't rusting or replacing any parts and it's good to know that once you get this, you can use it And what is more and more So especially smaller customers are putting in much effort look really good because it's If you have a cool looking truck Okay, What would you say that you've ever seen For me as product manager. And when I'm walking on the outside Now I always love it, seeing the shining so you can see it already Okay, this is a special color. I go to it and I simply have because it's much more love So now that we see the these chassis is are painted, is to start installing the different parts Yeah. As the frames are hanging on the roof So we're starting for example adding the axles, adding the toolboxes, spare wheels and stuff and the last step of the assembly is then adding the wheels Yeah, I see that different things So I guess like these are additions Oh, such a trailer that's basically always the same on the street. But there are so many options, different types and so many you can you can choose as a customer It's not simply a big box It's a really complicated So there's so many different things I'm sure the safety standards That's why you have more equipment, better technologies Yeah. So developing is, of course, a big job on the trailer themself and also every year, new regulations. So we have to follow. And so we always have the need to develop. It's always to stay up to date, So it's always developing Yeah, that's excellent. Yeah. Yeah. It's good to know that that just to meet the safety standards, on the road, to see that you're You're producing a good quality product not just the customer but whoever Yeah, always try to give a good solution Yeah. As I mentioned, Yeah, it's very unique and I see this is a rear tail light assembly? Yeah. So we can also do different lights So the classical light bulbs for example, special night light And also of course, as we entered 2023, we also have the cool walking light as we have on your cars. What's available in our trailers. Oh, you have to have the scrolling That's cool. And I see you have different options. So I guess this is the plastic one Yeah, you can have a plastic one So better for damage. Light damage. But you can also have the steel variant because this is not possible This is pretty cool. I like the round light. It's very retro, I would say. Yeah, and it's easier to repair Single parts. So I see that. I see some tires around. Then I guess this is a spare tire carrier Yeah, absolutely right. Yeah, that's the basket type for cargo trailers But there are also other variants because this big spare carrier, is for example, So not under having the the lower chassis nicely. In this case, for example, so you can put in the spare wheel here and then simply with the winch Pull it up. Okay. And I see it's different design Oh yeah. Can you tell us more about it? That's internally called It's also a special type for Mega trailers are where you can put in one tire in the middle under the frame. And the customers more like it because it's easier to use under the frame and that's why they simply love it. What do we have here? It looks like a lot of different Yeah. This is the mounting place What we have many, many, many different standard rubber bumper that we have a steel bumper So imagine if we are at the ramp This roll can roll up and down at the ramp so it has no damage back then. There is no damage to the bumper Also, such a type is existing. with a big steel roller Have L-shaped bumpers. Right. Long type rubber bumper, So there are so many different types I see. Because the customers in the market because every customer, other types of goods And so we have to deliver of protection for the frame. Okay. And I'm sure they Which parts are the ones to like, which parts Right, exactly. Yeah. Especially when you have to the cooler trailers, the customers it's completely packed the expensive coolers, because it's one of the most expensive trailers So basically operating on the streets, Because they have to, I guess, you want as much protection that structure. Yeah. Because it's basically solid more sensible compared to a standard dry Yeah. And I see that you also put on different Yeah. We have all sorts of fenders. Yeah. Yeah. For example quarter fenders Also straight fenders and also we have to fit to the European regulations tire sizes you are forced to use different Because the cars and other drivers cannot see anything So I guess we see here Uh, a trailer that has gone through Is this going to be a or something like a curtain sider, I guess this one will be a flatbed the hinges for the flapping sidewalls, but could be also another way because it's and there's also something especially cool The the axles are quite unique here. Yeah exactly. It's another equal distance. So we have to offset the axle put to the rear because the front axle we have here I see. It's a self steering axel. So it's only turning with the friction Right. So it has no active steering. It's simply steering because It's a very unique setup. What is the benefit of having it offset compared to just having it together? Mostly the benefit is that you don't have so many tread to the to the tire would have the same distance when are always rubbing on the floor or on street. I see. It's dragging Yeah. So yeah, you save more tires. The tires are longer lasting and this way because these tires of the last So they are not even not even having any problems and the other two axels are and only a two axle device So we do not have that much friction So this tires on this trailer And after some years it will pay off. Definitely it will pay off. So obviously, for a customer like the total cost of ownership It is. The saving on tires is one And also you get the space. Yeah, a space for the toolbox. So back that fits nicely. I, I really like the look of this trailer. I would say it's my favorite You can buy one if you want. So this what we can see here right now. It's the beginning Okay. So this colleague here has, which is mounting right now. Here we have a front wall, which is black, Almost every part of the body Which has two very important and two very important facts, because aluminum is lightweight and aluminum will never rust. So everybody has a complete steel body. It will start to rust because of damages, collisions, bad weather and stuff this will never happen. And I'm sure steel If you want to make a wall weight to the trailer that you're And this, Yeah, exactly. Can you tell me more it seems like What is the reason for that? Yeah, we are using different profiles Simple factors that customer can repair more easily. Okay. Cause imagine there is a forklift driver loading the trailer from the rear. And he is driving through It's much, much more easy for this customer of the profiles. So it's a big cost advantage for a company because he does not need But only a small profile. Yeah. So it's easier to repair and Yeah. Yeah. And I think it also helps Yeah also because the profiles are not Put together there is only the rivets at the corners. And so in this way, the body, the profile can move And this avoids cracks in the front wall because it stays more flexible That's that's very interesting to hear. You don't think about you and why it needs to flex. But it's very clear You can I guess these can kind of slide. Yes. Left and right the side column, the side wall. We have here the the roof top alone and the roof parts which is always consisting So basically equipment is a sliding from the rear to the front that our customers can also do Oh, okay. Oh, I never I never knew that. There you could load from the top. I always thought you opened that side I always thought you opened that side No, you always have the possibility to do the loading from the sides, And here we have the roof topping which our colleagues It seems like we have almost Yeah, this is the last part and afterwards we go to the quality check a lot of checks like simply to avoid delivery of a trailer Yeah, because a customer should always Otherwise it's, it's not good for us not good for the customer. and this one Okay. Yeah I see a lot of the Can you tell us more about it? Yeah. This is a steel wire integrated which simply So imagine that somebody on a parking lot having a knife You cannot cut it that easy because we have the net inside the topping To get it inside the trailer, especially strong scissors, for example, and then [inaudible] theft, in my opinion, and he already sees this option I cannot get inside, So the theft is not getting to the goods So it's a double So I guess sometimes it's not about just prevention, You just they look at it, Yeah. They'll go for some target. And so you also have less downtime because the trailer still running I see. Oh good.