Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe Also, please like and leave a comment, and of videos. Thanks for your help. In this video we will cover IPv6. As you already know, up to this point in the But IPv6 is the future, and it is starting IPv6 brings multiple improvements over IPv4, to IPv6. IPv6 is covered in a few areas of the official Topic 1.8 says you must be able to configure 1.9 says you must be able to compare various You should also be able to configure and verify we already covered in IPv4. I considered trying to fit all of this into it up. A lot of CCNA candidates don't feel confident I think that's because we spend so much just briefly cover IPv6 and then never mention Let's take our time to cover IPv6, and make questions on the exam. Here's what we'll cover in this video. First, let's review hexadecimal. I told you about hexadecimal when we covered understand hexadecimal, because IPv6 addresses Then I'll give an overview of why IPv6 is from IPv4. I'll give you a basic overview of IPv6, Finally I'll show you how to configure IPv6 Watch until the end of the video for a bonus practice exams for the CCNA. I used them to study for my exams, and they If you want to get Boson ExSim, follow the Before talking about IPv6, you may be wondering, I think I mentioned this earlier in the course, Internet Stream Protocol was developed in introduced for public use. It was never called IPv5, but it used a value If you remember, Day 10 of this course covered is the version field. IPv4 uses a value of 4, and Internet Stream So, to avoid confusion, when the successor and it uses a value of 6 in the Version field Now let's review hexadecimal. The three numbering systems you should know 2. 0b can be used as a prefix before a binary For example, look at this number. A 1 and a 0. Is that decimal 10? Or binary 1 0, which is equal to decimal 2? Or is it perhaps hexadecimal 1 0, which is We can't know. By using the prefix 0b, we can make it clear Now, why is 'base 2' another name for It's because there are only two available 0 and 1. All numbers are represented using just these But you're already familiar with binary. The next numbering system is decimal, or base You can use the prefix 0d to indicate decimal. As the name 'base 10' suggests, there 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. Finally, there is hexadecimal, also known You can use the prefix 0x to indicate hexadecimal, in the course. These are the 16 digits available in hexadecimal, B, C, D, E, and F are used as well. Here's a chart comparing the three, from First, notice that up to 9, decimal and hexadecimal However, the decimal system then runs out and ten is written as 1 0. Hexadecimal expresses the same value with D, 14 is E, and 15 is F. Okay, now let me Notice that these binary numbers have leading For example, decimal 3 is written as 0 0 1 You don't actually have to do this in binary, So, why did I write all of these numbers as unnecessary? It's because I want to emphasize that each For example, the maximum value of four binary digit, F. This is very important for converting between From this chart, I recommend memorizing the It's not difficult, just remember that 10 and 15 is F. Also, be able to convert between You already know that, it shouldn't be a If it is a problem, go back and watch the review. If you can do those two things, convert between between decimal and binary, you'll have to hexadecimal. Let's walk through some conversions. Binary 1101 1011 is equal to what in hexadecimal? So, this is 8 binary bits. Remember, each hexadecimal digit contains So, split the number into 4-bit groups, 1101 Then, convert each of those 4-bit groups to 1101 is 8 plus 4 plus 1, so 13. 1011 is 8 plus 2 plus 1, so 11. Then convert those decimal numbers to hexadecimal. You should have these conversions memorized. 13 is D, and 11 is B. Simply put those two the answer. Binary 1101 1011 is equal to hexadecimal DB. To check, you can use a calculator. For example, from the Windows 10 calculator select the programmer calculator. In the programmer calculator, you can select is base 8, and binary. I selected hexadecimal and typed in DB. As you can see, it is equal to binary 1101 If you don't use windows 10, your calculator mode. Or, you can just do a Google search for a In the real world, you'd use a calculator and hexadecimal. However, it's important to be able to do actually understand the concepts. Let's do a few more practice questions for Pause the video to try this one out yourself, Let's check. First split the number into 4-bit groups. Convert each group to decimal. Convert each decimal number to hexadecimal. And there's the answer, binary 0010 1111 We'll do one more for binary to hex. Pause the video to try it out. Let's check. First split the number into 4-bit groups. Convert each group to decimal. Convert each decimal number to hexadecimal. And there's the answer, binary 1000 0001 How about converting from hexadecimal to binary? Basically, it's just the reverse process. Convert to decimal, then to binary. For example, what's hexadecimal EC in binary? First, split up the hexadecimal digits. Then convert them to decimal. E is 14 and C is 12. Then convert each decimal number to binary. And that's the answer, hexadecimal EC is Okay, here's another one. Pause the video to try it out yourself, convert Let's check. First, split up the hexadecimal digits. Then convert them to decimal. 2 is 2 and B is 11. Then convert each decimal number to binary. And that's the answer, hexadecimal 2B is Okay, last one. Pause the video to try it out yourself, convert Let's check. First, split up the hexadecimal digits. Then convert them to decimal. D is 13 and 7 is 7. Then convert each decimal number to binary. And that's the answer, hexadecimal D7 is Okay, that's all for the conversion practice, If you don't feel comfortable converting Write out a random 8-bit, 1-byte, number and Do the opposite too. Also try it with numbers that aren't 8 bits, Now, let's move on to the next topic. And the next topic is this, 'Why IPv6'? The main reason is that there simply aren't How many IPv4 addresses are there? An IPv4 address is 32 bits long, so that means 296 IPv4 addresses available. That may seem like a lot, but in our modern simply not enough. When IPv4 was being designed 30 years ago, be as large as it is today, they thought 32 However, we have known about the IPv4 address techniques have been used to preserve the VLSM, variable-length subnet masks is one space to be preserved. Private IPv4 addresses and NAT, Network Address a huge difference as well. Both of those will be covered soon in the Those techniques have been very useful in they are just short-term solutions. The long-term solution is to transition to Let me briefly explain how IPv4 addresses IPv4 address assignments are controlled by I mentioned IANA in the last video about TCP IANA distributes IPv4 address space to various then assign them to companies that need them. For example, an Internet service provider which can then be used by its customers. This is a map showing the various RIRs. To be honest, I don't know the proper pronunciation Africa, APNIC controls Asia-Pacific, ARIN Atlantic islands, and the US, LACNIC controls NCC controls Europe, the Middle East, and However, these RIRs are almost all out of For example, in September 2015 ARIN declared They don't have any more addresses to assign, ARIN can reclaim their addresses, for example. Here's another one, in August 2020, LACNIC allocation. The other RIRs have similar problems, too. So, as you can see the situation is pretty for our modern world. We need something capable of supporting our future. That is IPv6. Let's finally get into the specifics. There is actually a lot of interesting history that's enough for this video. I think you can see why we need to transition If you want to read a little about it, search So, let's talk about IPv6. An IPv6 address is 128 bits. That's 4 times the number of bits in an At first, you might think that 4 times the the number of addresses. That's wrong. Every additional bit DOUBLES the number of 32 bits allows for about 4 billion addresses. 33 bits would allow about 8 billion, 34 bits So, how many IPv6 addresses are there? There are 340 undecillion, 282 decillion, 463 sextillion, 463 quintillion, 374 quadrillion, thousand and 456 IPv6 addresses. Yes, I had to search on Google to learn how But no, you don't have to memorize it. For comparison, here's the number of IPv4 Here's an example IPv6 address in binary. That's a lot of 1s and 0s. If you write that in dotted decimal like an However, as I've already said Ipv6 addresses written in hexadecimal. Here's that same address written in hexadecimal. An IPv6 address is 128 bits, and as I said information. 128 bits divided by 4 is 32. So, an IPv6 address is written as 32 hexadecimal colons. This is still longer and more difficult to that's unavoidable. There is 4 times the amount of information But there's some good news. IPv6 addresses use the 'slash' notation the address in the Cisco IOS CLI. No more dotted decimal subnet masks. This /64, for example, means the first half and the second half would be the host portion. In addition, there are a couple methods to Let's look at those methods to shorten IPv6 First up, leading 0s can be removed. Look at this IPv6 address. 'Leading 0s' are any 0s at the beginning These are the leading 0s in this address. So, we can simply remove them. Now the address can be written like this. The 0s are still part of the address, but simpler like this. Okay, there's one more technique to shorten Consecutive quartets of all 0s can be replaced For example in the address below, there are You can shorten the address like this, replacing Why are you able to do this? It's because we know an IPv6 address is We can only see four quartets now, so we know quartets of all 0s. But let's not stop there. You can combine both methods, removing leading Now this address looks much easier to handle. But, there's a limitation here. Consecutive quartets of 0s can only be abbreviated Why is that? Well, look at this address here. You might try to shorten it like this. But now we have a problem. We know there should be 8 quartets in total, But how many quartets of 0s are here? 2? 3? We can't know. How about here? Maybe there are 2 quartets on the left and 2 on the right. So, this is why we can only abbreviate the Instead, we should shorten the address like The left side has three all-0 quartets, so On the right side, which has two all-0 quartets, Here's a few questions to practice shortening Pause the video and try to complete each. Okay, here are the answers. Here's the first one, you're able to remove Next one. Note that there are two sets of consecutive to replace one set. Okay, next one. Like the previous two, you're able to remove Next one. There are some leading 0s you can remove in all 0s. Okay, last one. You're able to replace five quartets of You should also be able to take a shortened address. Here's an example of how to do that. First, put leading 0s where needed, remember characters, that's why they're called Where can we put leading 0s in this example These three quartets here. So, now the address looks like this. But we're not finished. If a double colon is used, we should replace are 8 quartets in total. There is a double colon here, so we can expand How many quartets are there? There are 5. Actually there are 8, but currently only 5 To make 8 total quartets, simply add three Here are a few practice questions for expanding Pause the video to solve them. Okay, here are the answers. First one. Second one. Third one. Fourth one. And the fifth one. I will talk about different IPv6 address types is a different type of address. IPv4 has different kinds of addresses like and so does IPv6. But as I said, that's a topic for another Next up, let's see how to find the IPv6 host address. We've already done this before for IPv4. Change all of the host bits to 0, and then But let's try it out for IPv6. Typically, an enterprise requesting IPv6 addresses Also, typically IPv6 subnets use a /64 prefix So, the enterprise received a /48 block, but This means that an enterprise has 16 bits And the remaining 64 bits can be used for I think an example will make this clearer. here's an IPv6 address. This part in blue is the /48 block assigned prefix'. Note that this example is for the IPv6 'global As I said before, there are multiple IPv6 video. But these 'global unicast' addresses are use over the Internet, they aren't private Okay, the next 16 bits, 4 hex digits, are Because the enterprise received a /48 block a /64 prefix length, these 16 bits are free Together, these two parts make the 'network prefix. Then the last 64 bits are the host bits. That is a huge amount of hosts per subnet, But the convention is to use a /64 prefix However, that doesn't mean you'll only So, we'll practice using IPv6 addresses Finding the prefix of an IPv6 address with Simply make the second half of the address That's what I did here, and notice I shortened the host portion, which is all 0s, with a Even if the prefix length isn't /64, if easy to find the prefix length. Why is that? It's because each hexadecimal character 56 is a multiple of 4, so let me show you This first quartet is the first 16 bits of This one brings it to 32 bits. 48 bits. This 2 contains the next 4 bits, so 52. And this 1 contains another 4 bits, so 56 So, these first 14 characters are the network Everything after is the host portion, so we Here it is, after removing leading 0s and Let me point out that you can't remove these Even though they are part of the host portion you can't remove them. For example, if you were to shorten the address the leading 0s back the prefix would be this, than the original one. So, remember that point, you can only remove So, that's all quite simple. Find where the network portion ends, and change But with an IPv6 address like this you need The prefix length is /93, which isn't a So, that means that the network portions ends Let's find which one. 16 bits, 32 bits, 48 bits, 64 bits, 80 bits, bits. So, the network portion includes all of these So, in order to properly write out the network As you know, hexadecimal B is equal to decimal Decimal 11 is written as 1011 in binary. Only this first bit is part of the network all of the other bits to 0. Now we have binary 1000. Change that back to decimal, which is 8. It's also written as 8 in hexadecimal. So, when we write out the network prefix, because we changed the host bits all to 0. So, here's the network prefix. Notice the '8' instead of the 'B'. I hope you can see the importance of really If you don't know binary, it would be tough all of the host bits are changed to 0. The same goes for IPv4. If you don't know binary, you can't really Here are some practice questions, find the Pause the video now to do that. Okay, here are the answers. First one. Second one. Third one. Fourth one. And fifth one. Note that you don't have to write out the address if you prefer. If you still want some more practice, try random prefix lengths yourself, and then try So, we've only covered the absolute basics But I want to include a lab with each lecture some very basic IPv6 configuration. I'll just show you how to configure IPv6 the next video you can try it out in Packet So, R1 has three interfaces, each connected 2001:db8:0:0::/64 on the G0/0 interface, 0:1::/64 In this example, the company was assigned quartet of the prefix to make different subnets. Just a side point, you may be wondering why That's because this range of IPv6 addresses They should never actually be used in real examples like this. So, here's the configuration. First up, you have to use the command IPV6 This command allows the routers to perform If you don't enable this, it's not going Next up, I configured the G0/0 interface. The command to configure an IPv6 address is length. You'll notice that a lot of IPv6 commands 'IP' the command uses 'IPV6'. Also notice that you can use the shortened understand. Remember to use NO SHUTDOWN to enable the I did the same thing on G0/1, and then G0/2, You can use the whole address, the shortened the router will understand what you mean. Now let's confirm the configurations. I used the command SHOW IPV6 INTERFACE BRIEF. Again, same as the IPv4 command, you just There are a few things to point out here. First up, notice that the shortened version digits. Actually, the address on the G0/0 interface address I typed. To emphasize that the first four quartets two 0s here in the network diagram and when But they can be included in the double colon much as possible. Okay, next thing to point out, something you has two IPv6 addresses, even though we only These are called 'link-local' addresses, interface when you configure an IPv6 address, I will cover these in Day 32 when I cover want to read about them before that Wikipedia IPv4 has link-local addresses as well, although interfaces. Anyway, as I said I'll cover those in Day Before moving on to the quiz let's review First up we reviewed hexadecimal and practiced Although we briefly covered hexadecimal when even more important to be comfortable with Then I introduced why IPv6 is necessary. Basically, there aren't enough IPv4 addresses I covered the basics of IPv6, and the main which are 128-bits in length and usually written Finally I showed you the basic commands to IPv6 addresses on an interface. There is still a lot more that we have to a good start. Make to sure watch until the end of the quiz best practice exams for the CCNA. They're the practice exams I used to prepare are the best. If you want to get ExSim, follow the link Okay, let's move on to question 1 of the Which of the following are valid IPv6 addresses? Select three. Here are the options. Pause the video now to find the answers, only Okay, let's check the answers. The valid IPv6 addresses are A, B, and E. It has a G in the fourth quartet. IPv6 addresses use hexadecimal, which only Why is D invalid? It has nine quartets. An IPv6 address should have only 8 quartets by colons. And how about F? It's using the double colon twice. Remember, you can only use the double colon Okay, let's go to question 2. Which of the following is a correctly-abbreviated Here are the four options. Pause the video now to select the correct The correct answer is D. All of these abbreviations can only remove 'leading' 0s from an IPv6 of the quartet. So, only D is a correct abbreviation of the Let's go to question 3. Which of the following commands must be used A, IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING from interface config B, IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING from global config C, IPV6 ROUTING from global config mode. Or D, IPV6 ROUTING from interface config mode. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is B. IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING, entered the router to perform IPv6 routing. Okay, we had lots of practice questions earlier Now let's do a bonus question from Boson Okay, here's today's Boson ExSim practice This question actually covers something we can answer it. So here's the question. What command would you issue on RouterA so Select the best answer. So, this is a question about static routing However, the IPv6 static route command is Like I said in the video, a lot of IPv6 commands The only difference is instead of IP ROUTE So, the command is IPV6 ROUTE, followed by and the prefix length here, and then the next Okay, so that's the IPv6 static route command. So, knowing that, you should be able to answer So pause the video here and try to find the Okay, hopefully you found the answer. So let's check it out. So, RouterA needs to reach RouterC, which So, that should be the destination in the So that means the correct answer is either 2001:DB8:1::/64, which is not correct. So, is the correct answer B or D? Let's see, so the next hop should be RouterB's that is ::2. So, which one has the correct next hop? This one here, B. 2001:DB8:1::2, that looks How about D? The next hop is 2001:DB8:2::2, that is not That would mean RouterC is the next hop, but yet. Okay, so B should be the correct answer. I will click on 'show answer'. And indeed that is correct. So here is Boson's explanation. You can pause the video here to read that. Also notice there is some Cisco documentation This is available free online and it's a great And also it shows you which category of the And it is from 'IP Connectivity'. Okay, so that is an example question from If you're looking for CCNA practice exams, These are fantastic practice exams. I used them when preparing for my CCNA and If you want to get a copy of Boson ExSim, There are supplementary materials for this There is a flashcard deck to use with the There will also be a packet tracer practice That will be in the next video. Sign up for my mailing list via the link in the flashcards and packet tracer lab files Before finishing today's video I want to To join, please click the 'Join' button Thank you to Magrathea, Njabulo, Benjamin, Nil, Prakaash, Nasir, Erlison, Apogee, Wasseem, Samil, Ed, Value, John, Funnydart, Scott, C Mohd, Johan, Mark, Yousif, Sidi, Boson Software, Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, One of you is still displaying as Channel me know and I'll see if YouTube can fix This is the list of JCNP-level members at 8th 2020, if you signed up recently and your be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept Brave browser. That's all for now.