- Flow is often described as a state of kind of 'effortless effort.' We feel like we're propelled Everything else just Time is gonna dilate, it's gonna pass strangely. Five hours go by in Occasionally, it'll slow down, you get a freeze-frame effect, I mean, anybody who's been Intuition tends to get This is a basketball seeing the hoop and suddenly And our frown muscles And what that frowning is, is a sign that the This is a constant issue where my wife thinks I'm mad at her or somebody and I'm like, &quot;No, no, I'm just thinking. This is just me thinking. I'm in robot mode.&quot; My name is Steven Kotler. I'm a writer and a is &quot;The Art of Impossible.&quot; Flow itself, actually, the term is coined by Goethe, who uses the which means overflowing with joy. Nietzsche actually William James worked but Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi as the Godfather of He was very interested meaning of life, and he talking to people about when they felt their best, and they performed their best. Everywhere he went, people &quot;I'm in this altered where every action, seems to flow effortlessly, from the last.&quot; Flow actually feels 'flowy.' More specifically, it refers of rapt attention You're so focused on so focused on what you're doing, everything else just But one of the things that what they call &quot;the voice.&quot; Often, when I'm skiing in right, left, do this, do that, and it's very quick. You either do what the or you tend to crash. The challenge-skills the &quot;golden rule to flow.&quot; And the idea here is pretty simple. We pay the most attention when the challenge of that task slightly exceeds our skillset. So, to do this work and you have to get good at being comfortable You wanna stretch but not snap. So there are a number of to sort of prepare yourself to drop into flow. The flow triggers are your toolkit. 22 of them have been discovered. There are probably way, researchers have identified 22. The most basic of flow triggers- complete concentration. You really wanna sorta start in relationship to your physiology. I like to wake up at 3:30, That's when I'm most I am married to a night owl. My wife doesn't wake up 'til eight o'clock at night. That's when her brain comes alive. And then you wanna try to for uninterrupted concentration. Practice distraction So you wanna turn off your Twitter, Facebook, all your messages, all your alerts. There was a study that coders in flow, if they a knock at the door, a it can take 'em 15 minutes if they can get back in at all. Flow only shows up when is in the right gear, right now. One way to kind of there's a cluster of them that are predominantly They drive focus, they drive alertness and there's a lot of different Novelty produces dopamine. We see the same thing complexity, the experience of awe. You look up at the night sky and you know those stars and you get sorta If you've ever done a you get an answer right, that little rush of pleasure And then you usually get a that's because the dopamine is amplifying pattern recognition. We get that same dopamine And this could be physical risks, emotional risks, social possibly spiritual risks. We get the dopamine not as a which is what some people but now we know it's to Now, there are lots of but from a motivation standpoint, there are five and to be built into one another and work in a sort of specific order, in a specific sequence. The most basic human One of the things we get from When we're curious we don't have to struggle. We don't have to trying to pay attention to it. Curiosity is designed, to be built into passion. And think about, how much attention you're falling in love with. You can't stop thinking about them, can't stop staring at them. That's a tremendous Now, passion is incredibly useful, but as a motivator, which is purpose. Everyone's talking about, and it's this big altruistic thing and it's good for the world, and all those things may be true, but from a peak it's very, very selfish. Once you have purpose, the system demands autonomy. I want the freedom to And once you have that freedom, the system wants the last of Mastery is the skills to One of the really incredible is we're all built for Flow is universal in humans. It's actually universal and definitely all social mammals. There's a shared collective a team performing at their best, a group performing at their best. This is called 'group flow.' In fact, studies have shown that the people who for these characteristics, who score off the charts and life satisfaction, are the people with the We're all capable of so That is a commonality It's the largest lesson in 30 years of studying peak And the way I sorta is motivation is what Learning allows us to Creativity is how we steer. And flow, which is is how we amplify all the results beyond all reasonable expectation.