Waving your bob is tricky. I get so many comments about how you guys are struggling with waving shorter hair. And I also get a lot of comments telling me how you think that you're useless at hair or you can never do it or you're never going to learn it because you just terrible with your hair. But I just want to put it out there and let you know that waving your bob, It really isn't. It's actually taken me a long time to figure out how to do it in a way that doesn't make it look too curly or in a way where it's just not all going to fall out. Like I get it. Okay? I just had to put it out there. You can do this because if I can do it, Now that we got that out of the way today, I'm going to teach you how to wave your short hair using a curling wand. All right, here we go. Here is my hair before it's been curled. I blew it out last night. I slept on it. It's not looking great. It doesn't look bad either, right? It's just nice and smooth. You do want to start with your hair smooth. If you have wavy or textured hair, you want to make sure to blow it out first. I did a whole video on that just like this video. But on how to use a blow up brush to blow out your hair to get lots of smoothness and volume. If you have textured hair, make sure to watch that video first so that you can get to this state. It's really important that your hair is in this state for it to look good when you're doing this technique. You're going to notice that the bottom is shorter than the top, and obviously that's because it starts lower. So your hair here from your nape to your base is shorter than your hair from the top of your head all the way down, right? That hair is double in length because this is a shorter space. So this area is really difficult to curl with a curling iron or a one when it's short. If you have an even shorter bob than me, it could be like this long, like an inch long or two inches long, and it's going to be super hard to curl. So what we're going to do is we are going to create so it goes with the rest of the hair, but we're not going to bother trying to curl it with a The way that you're going to wave it, is by rocking the flat iron back and forth, back and forth. Now, whenever I'm wearing a wavy style, I don't like it when my hair tucks under. I actually want it to be more straight like this. So I time my waves so that I end up lifting out at the ends. So, for example, I'm going to move out, in, out. If I do it this way, I'm tucking that in. Do you see that? So I need to actually do it the opposite way. So I need to go in, out, in, and that's going to give me a straighter shape, almost like a little beveled out, which is what I like when my hair's waved. Okay, so grab another section we're going to go in, out, in. And finally grab this section and we're going to go in, out, Then we can release the hair and we can take about an inch here, which is right by my ear and slide and then clip this away so that we're not getting messed up and confused. Now, because I'm super lazy and I don't want to spend too much time curling my hair. I'm also going to wave this section. This section is much longer, so you could fit it in a curling wand, no problem. But if you want to do it the lazy way like me, just wave it because it's much quicker. So in, out, in. Now that we're in this state, so we're at the occipital bone. If you turn to the side and you feel your head, there is a little protrusion here and this is called the occipital bone. Now, if your hair is doing some type of, like, weird movement at the bottom, what I recommend you do, because this is a wave with a straighter end, is just take that very tip and on really low heat. So I'm at my lowest heat setting right now, which is 300. Just kind of straighten and smooth that out so that you don't end up with like a really weird bend in the wave at the bottom. Now, this is really important stuff. The way that you wave your hair using a wand is done with this very specific technique. So if I were to go and wrap my hair around this and the hair is flat, I'm going to get a curl. Actually, and let me show you that. So say I take this section here, right, and I lay my wand and I wrap it around my wand. Now, do you see how my hair is flat around the wand? When I release it, I'm going to get a ringlet. Do you see that? So that's fine if that's the look you want. But I feel like a lot of people who have short hair don't want that look. They want a wave. They want an "S" wave that's like a disorganized texture that isn't a curl. So the way that you do that is very different. And I'll show you right now. So what you want to do is you want to put your barrel behind your hair, and then what you're going to do is you're twisting that root, it's flat, but then you're actually going to twist your hair. Okay, well, there go and you're going to go around and you're leaving a little bit of that end out. So you're not twisting all the way in. So you don't need to use those thermal protection gloves. You don't have to wrap your hand around the barrel because you want the end to be straight. And then when I release that, you're going to see that it's actually going to form a wave and not a curl. Now, this looks a little wonky because I had just curled it. But let me show you on the second piece. Again, I'm putting the barrel behind the section that's going to curl the hair away from the face, which is what I always want to do when I'm around the face. So we put it behind the section and then you're going to lay that root flat, and then you're going to twist your hair. Okay. So see how that little section down here is twisted. And then once you release it and you pull on the hair, you're going to get an "S" wave. You're not going to get a ringlet or a curl. Isn't that so cool? When I learned this technique, I was like, it's mind boggling. Okay, let's grab another section. We want to grab those sections from the back and just bring them forward. So it's not confusing. I really don't recommend trying to do it with a mirror because you're going to get really lost. Now this is the thing, you can do it all going behind, going away from the face on the side. If you want it to be a little more beachy, a little more textured, then it is a good idea to alternate your curl after you do two at the front away from the face. So I always do this piece away, do this piece away, this piece I can do towards the face. And the way that I'm going to do that towards the face is by applying, putting that that barrel in front of the hair, not behind, in front of the hair and wrapping this way. So we're wrapping the root once, okay. And then we are twisting the hair. See that? And we are wrapping. I recommend that you practice doing this with your barrel off. That's really going to allow you to get a handle on what you're doing before you put your hair in it, because you don't want your hair to be on the barrel, especially in the root, like in here for too long while you're trying to figure out how to wrap your hands, do it a couple of times with the tool off before you go in with the tool on. Okay, so let's do this side now. So again, this is right in front of my face. So I'm going to take it out. I'm going to put the tool behind the hair, lay the root flat, and then I am twisting the hair and putting it on the barrel, leaving that very little end out. Then when I unravel and I pull it, I have a very soft wave shape. Okay, let's grab another section. Now that we're near the temples, we have to decide how we want to part our hair, right? I often part it. I mean, I part it all over the place. Sometimes I part on the side, the other opposite side, sometimes the part in the middle. And the way hair really changes the vibe of the hairstyle significantly because it either gives you a lot of vertical volume. If you put part on the side, you get a lot of lift and it goes over. If you part in the middle you get more width on the sides, but you get low vertical volume. I did a whole video about that a few years ago actually, and I really recommend you guys watch it. It's a good video and it kind of helps you visualize the differences and how you part your hair. In this case, I'm just going to part it in the middle. That's what I like doing. But if you part it on the side, like say you're going to part it here, then obviously all of this is going to come this way and that's going to affect how you curl it. Again, let me just straighten out that end. So it doesn't look strange later. Perfect. Let's talk a little bit about sectioning now while I keep going. You guys can keep watching me do this technique and I can tell you a little bit about sectioning, because I think sectioning is something that really confuses people. So typically what you want to do is you want your section to be roughly the same size as your hot tool. So this is a one inch curling wand. A one inch is kind of a very standard curling wand size. It works well on long hair, it works well on shorter hair, and it gives you kind of a very standard curl one and a quarter inches is going to give you a much larger curl. I use that quite often on longer hair that wants a soft wave. I almost never use it on short hair because it might give you a soft wave in the moment, but it's not going to hold throughout the day, most likely. Right? So that's one in a quarter inch. Two inches is just really large. And then there's three quarters of an inch. So three quarters of an inch gives you a very different look because the curl will be significantly tighter. I do a lot of visuals on my Instagram to show you guys the differences. I did a whole chart, like we created a whole chart for you guys that shows the different curling iron sizes and what you can expect from that size and who it's best for. I also curl my hair in all different ways. I style my hair in all different ways, and then I show you what it looks like 360. So this is what it looks like with a one inch curling iron. This is what it looks like with the three quarters of an inch curling iron. This is what it looks like, blown out with volume, like all of that stuff. So if you don't follow me on Instagram, I highly recommend that you follow me on Instagram. That's a new platform for me. I just started posting a lot on there, so it's a fairly small platform, but it's what I've been putting almost all of my effort into lately because I find that those really quick visual references are super, super helpful for you guys as my community and it's something that you can save and refer to later. My whole purpose on this platform really is to help and guide you and being able to have different platforms where I can do that in different ways is awesome for me because then you don't have to watch a 20-minute video to get the information that you need. You can just see it in a quick visual and you know, when you're buying a new tool or when you're trying to curl your hair, trying to get an effect that you want, what you should do, you know, what's going to get you that effect in the easiest possible way with the least amount of frustration and effort. Okay. Now, as you can see, I'm not pulling these apart right away and I'm deliberately not doing that because I wanted to tell you guys something else. It responds to what you're doing very well, and that can be a good thing and a bad thing because what it can also do is it can drop. So I was pulling my hair to show you guys how it created that "S" wave. Now, if you are the type of person that has very fine hair, that doesn't hold a curl, if you pull your hair when it is still hot, what could happen is it's going to last you a couple of hours and then it's going to be gone. So you might want to do this technique where you're doing the exact same thing that I taught you before, but you're leaving the curls in like a little coily form until it's 100% cool down and then you're going to pull it out and create the waves. So when you do it like this and just leave it, If you are the person. There are so many people like that where curls do not last, you have to keep them totally coily without running your hands through them, without breaking them up with a wide tooth comb. You know, you have to leave them until they are 100% cool. Then when they're cool, they're set and you can break them up and still have that style last you for several more hours throughout the day. Okay. Now this is going to be our last section. I'm going to do this. I'm actually going to part this and this is going to go back. It's the crown. I don't like my middle part to run too far down. So this is all going to go backwards and then we can just part this right in the middle, just like that. So again, I'm putting my wand in front of my hair this time because I want this kind of back section to curl towards the face because I want more of that beachy, disorganized shape. But then these two sections, so these sections are going to be broken up into two and we are going to curl those away from the face the way that we curl it away from the face. Let me know in the comments of, you know, you're going to put it it behind the section, wrap your root flat and then twist your hair and wrap around. I'm sorry that this is a little bit repetitive. I feel sometimes like my videos, I kind of blast through it and I think some of you guys really like that because it's fast moving, but some of you guys have a hard time recreating the looks because it's not detailed enough, right? So I wanted to do more of this conversational style video for you when it comes to styling so that you can actually have me on your bathroom counter. We can hang out together in the morning or at night before drinks and you can follow along and you can actually feel like you are learning something really valuable, something that's actually going to change the way you style your hair and the way that your hair looks. Now, if you like the front to look really peezy. And I do. I like my bangs, like my fringe area. I have curtained fringe. I like it to look really peezy. I don't like it when it looks like one big curl. I really don't like it when it looks like one big curl. Sometimes I accidentally style it like that and I'm like, I hate it. If you like peeziness like I do, then what you want to do is you want to really split this front section into very small sections. So as you can see, like this section is a section that I could put my whole barrel, I could do a curl, one curl with it, but I'm actually going to split it into two sections because that's going to give me a little bit more peeziness. Okay, Now let's just wait until my hair cools down. I'm back and I'm cool. Okay, Now there's two ways you can do this. You can use a wide tooth comb and you can run that through your hair. I do that for clients, or you can just do it with your fingers, which is much easier. And that's what I do for myself. See, when I let the hair cool, look at how set the curls are or the waves when I just did it when it was hot. Did you see how it immediately softened significantly? So this is going to soften over the day anyway, right? Just from time. So you want to start with it a little tighter even then you might want so that you don't end up with nothing. Now to finish the style, I always like to go in with I find for a look like this texture spray is much more effective than hairspray. It's a very different look. One of my very favorite texture sprays is High Tide by Sexy Hair. So this guy, this is a really nice product because it gives you for one, it smells really good, which is amazing. It smells like the beach and it gives you that grittiness, but it's not too strong. There is another product by Sexy Hair. I'll pop it up here, which is also really, really good, but it's very gritty. So this is like a lighter version of that. When I'm spraying my texture spray, I like to go from the underneath so that I get that volume there and then I like to go on top. So, okay, this is a perfect example of texture spray. Do you see what just happened? No texture spray. Texture spray. So it gives you a lift. It gives you a grittier beachier vibe. And it really does have quite a bit of impact. Honest to God, I use this like all the time. I didn't even expect it to do that. That's wild. Okay. Now, because I like peeziness at the front. What I'll often do is take my curls and I'll kind of split them and divide them so that they're not kind of one ginormous curl, and I'll spray them individually so that they really get that kind of gritty vibe to them. There's one other little thing that I want to tell you about texture spray, and that it's that it doesn't sleep well if you know, you know, if you're using texture spray and you sleep on it, if you have hair that's like mine, that has some texture or that's fine when you wake up, your hair isn't going to look great with Sexy Hair. This really does create like that stick that like bedheady vibe so it doesn't wear well. If you are washing your hair, waving it and you want to wear it like that for four or five days, skip the texture spray. I hate to say that because your results aren't going to look as nice. Like you saw my hair before I used it. It loses. If it loses finish, it loses that wow factor, but it also loses stick and it will get you longer wear time. And that's really important for a lot of people. Some people don't want to wash and style their hair every day. They want to do it once and then kind of touch it up for 3 to 4 days. That's fair. If you're going to an event and you really want like wow hair, then definitely use it. Or if you're on day three, you wave your hair, you know you're going to wash it the next day anyway. Then definitely use it. I hope that helps. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you have any request for me, if you want to see me do any more hair tutorials, if you have any specific looks that you really want to master, then leave that in the comment section for me. I always prioritize making the videos that I know you want to see.