"Ay!" "Yeah, whats up?" "I found a... I found a disk." "Well put it in the... put it in the thing "No." "Let's go." "PUT IT IN THE THING!" The last time you clicked on a Minecraft video Don't worry, I'm in that camp, too -- I'd Games let's play. My name is Schlatt, and today we're gonna sandbox became my favorite game, where I think why even after all the new changes, even after even after... Minecoins? There's still a soft spot for it in my heart. "Why did you do that?" "It's not a good song." "Alright well, put something else in. Put something else in." "Yeah?" "He puts Stal in. He puts f*ckin Stal in the jukebox are you *Bickering* C418 - Stal 000 Minecraft came out for the Xbox 360 on May Coincidentally that was the day 12 year old Remember Bionicles? Yeah, I had more than you did, so naturally, wanted was right up my alley. The 360 release of Minecraft was a barebones It was charmingly simple, dropping you into There wasn't much to do, but the things Combat was straightforward and fun, especially almost therapeutic... and the quiet time spent mining in preparation "Dog this song f*ckin sucks I'm sorry." "Ey what the f*ck do you mean!" *More yelling* And the quiet time spent mining in preparation That space to organize your thoughts and plan by those faint piano melodies in the background... That was the icing on the cake. I was in love with this game. It let me be creative, adventurous. You could do with everything around you what And some of my fondest gaming memories have GTA 4, Sakura Beach, w... wait. Every day after school I'd hop off the bus, There was only oneworld I played on -- I wanted too, so I crammed as much cool shit in there I built minecarts, mob traps, I exploited out of diamond blocks, listen I was a perfectionist. And this world had to be perfect, or else in front of a TV every day. But even after the countless hours I pumped building. So I started watching other people play to my world a little better. And as a result, I found an entirely new avenue "Oh my God dude." "Hey." "What?" "...You wanna make a let's play?" I My introduction to the genre was, well, loud. Even back then it was a screaming contest, just didn't sit well with me. I found myself gravitating to more reserved who, in the Let's Play space, was a breath He took a very methodical approach to building, rather than about him. And as I watched more videos, I eventually these two guys, Sips and Sjin. They were the quieter side of the Yogscast, game, it was hilariously fun to watch them These boys were the perfect let's play combo, automate the process of dirt collection, is Tekkit. Tekkit was a different beast altogether. A collection of technology-oriented mods that new way to play the game. If you didn't like mining, you didn't You could build one of these things and it'd If you didn't like building, well, guess Anything you wanted to do could be done with incredible stuff. Tekkit's charm wore off quickly, though. After the Sipsco series ended, I found myself made my way back to vanilla. But the charm was gone here, too. I tried to put my feelings into words on the post. I feel like Minecraft is becoming too complicated, Now there's weighted pressure plates and these I still don't know how to use anything from Why is everything becoming more complex? I thought Minecraft was popular for its sipmlicity I think I summed it up pretty well. I had stopped playing mods because I preferred and each round of new items and gameplay mechanics wasn't Minecraft anymore. So that begs the question... what is Minecraft? For me... Minecraft is not knowing how to play Minecraft. It's generating that first world and thinking It's standing in awe at the foot of a massive Minecraft is that dirt hut you built on the The memories I cherish the most from this doing. They're from when the game was simple. And from when my life was simple, too. Because back then, there was nothing to worry School was a joke, I didn't have to study Pretty much all of my free time was spent And, it was enjoyable. I didn't have a future to worry about. I was only just beginning to realize that because of an uncle in the field who continued Looking back, I suppose the simplicity of with the simplicity of Minecraft. And as I got older, and as I gradually figured hobbies were, what I wanted to do later in At the end of the day, I don't know if it that started pushing me away, but ever since Until in a moment of reflection, and tranquility, And the warm melodies I've come to know into a world I've missed for so long. C418's Minecraft: Volume Alpha. I know nothing about music theory and I'm something about it. Maybe it's the simple piano of Dry Hands, Or maybe it's not actually the music at Because when I heard these songs for the first I didn't instantly fall in love with the But the soundtrack is the only thing that for the first time. For me, these songs are timeless. And when they start playing, just for a moment, same world I always used to. The music is what brings back all those memories. It brings back Minecraft. Today, the Xbox 360 sits quietly on my dresser. To its right, a hacked Wii with the Homebrew Before I got into Minecraft I used to spam just make the race a living hell for everyone the game, recording the analog TV with a camera I know, it was bad. But I had to start somewhere, and that was To its left, a Mac Pro that weighs more than A parting gift from my uncle, who lost his He was the one who got me into making videos be without him. They're all dusty, but they're all still been on for a while. And that world is still there, too. So I decided to go back in. For the first time in half a decade, I turned I spawned in my wooden house, the first thing I made my way past the dozen or so dogs I building. I don't think I ever got that one working. Next door, the house of an old friend I haven't Above it, a "floating island" I spent A little up the hill, the second attempt at rail that went on for miles. Underground, into caves, over the water, it The magnum opus of the entire world. And slowly but surely, Sweden faded in. And I just started crying. They weren't sad tears, they weren't tears I don't know. I knew that all this world is, all this game of 1s and 0s but i knew that in a way it's This world is something that I will always It's a window into the past, a reflection It's been waiting here, unchanged since time. Unchanged since I started to become the man Minecraft, the game, is changing. Minecraft's audience, changed a long time The only thing that's really stayed static You can put me in some random world I've You can add weird new items I'll never learn But to me, it's not Minecraft until that into a world when nothing really mattered, I was happy.