- I really wanted to make a video about Brownian motion, you can see under a microscope, because Brownian motion It creates a bridge between two worlds, the atomic world and And in that in-between world, none other than Albert Einstein was able to do something amazing. In this video, I'm going to show you a few different ways you I'm going to explain Brownian motion with this model that I made. And finally, I'm going was able to work out how much atom's weigh by observing and So the first thing I did You find a way to blow smoke It's got this clever light and lens set up to illuminate the smoke The whole assembly fits And look, I've got this adapter on mine that I can mount my camera to. This particular method looks but for a camera, there's So like I've turned the iso right up here, and you can see there's a decent amount of grain in the footage, That's Brownian motion. You see that jiggle of Robert Brown wasn't the first but he was the first person to bring it to wide Anyway, I wanted to see if I And there are different ways Another option is particles That reminded me of a video I made about why white things are white. In it I showed the Uzo effect. One clear liquid poured It's cloudy because the and it's scattering light because it is full of The oils in the Uzo form So maybe I could see those tiny Uzo balls under the microscope In the end they were just too small for me to be able to see But it's okay because I with a different liquid, this dry skin treatment called hydromol. It also turns cloudy And to me that's a much clearer effect than what you get from the smoke cell, perhaps because the particles don't keep coming in and But in any case, it's good to confirm that Brownian motion happens Another option is plain old milk. Milk is in emulsion to, actually, They're about one or two microns, and they're quite a bit So we should potentially be able to see two different levels of Brownian motion. And actually it does seem that way. The bigger particles seem to jiggle less than the smaller particles. Interestingly, when Dot Brown he wanted to eliminate the possibility that what he was seeing I mean, it's not an Like look at these Daphnia The movement isn't that different. And he was viewing the jiggles of pollen particles after all. So perhaps they were moving Actually, pollen is typically too big to have a visible brownian jiggle. But Brown saw the pollen particles eject even smaller particles outta themselves, and he saw a jiggle in those. But just to be sure he wasn't looking at He picked up a quartz crystal. Quartz very occasionally has water and air trapped inside it. That's called anhydroquartz. And typically that water will for thousands of years. So if there ever was it was certainly dead by now. That sounded like a really cool idea. So I picked up my own That curved edge you can see in there is a boundary between water Unfortunately, I just couldn't get focused that deep inside the crystal, so this is a complete fail. We'll take Brown's word Back then, people didn't know about atoms. But now we know that these are surrounded by loads and as they zoom around, they We typically don't notice the effect of these individual collisions That's because there are Like there are just as many collisions of air molecules happening on the left side of this rubber ball as there are happening on the right side of this rubber ball. So the rubber ball goes nowhere, but on a much smaller scale, because these collisions are random, you will occasionally have more and stronger collisions on And so the particle gets By the way, it's still an like a single molecule of water collides with other water molecules, 10 to the 14 times per second. You might be thinking surely it would average out to zero net visible effect on something the size of a micron. The reason it doesn't is because of the insane At room temperature, the smacking into one of these particles could be anywhere between and several hundred meters per second. With that much variation, it's no surprise that you'll occasionally from one side to the other What you're seeing here is a I have a dish full of tiny ball bearings that I'm jiggling to for example, water molecules. And this plastic bead is like a particle suspended in that liquid. And you can see how the with the ball bearings to move around. But because the motion is averaged over lots the motion of the bead than the individual motions just like with real Brownian motion. It's also helpful to see See how individual collisions cause the larger particle If you couldn't see the smaller molecules, that larger particle would And you can see that as the effect is reduced, and in the opposite direction, if the particle gets smaller, So what was the genius with Brownian motion? Well, in 1905, the idea that was starting to gain traction. But still, there were a that didn't believe in atoms And when he was thinking he made a brilliant assumption about the way atoms and molecules move. He said, let's assume that and particles that you can they move according to the It's just that they differ in size. That means that Einstein was able to take equations and apply them to this You combine those equations for something called the which is like a measure of how fast does something diffuse through a fluid. The great thing about this equation is a lot of these terms are You've got things like something you can measure. You've got the radius of again, something you can measure. The only things you can't measure are the diffusion coefficient That means if we can we can calculate the other. In other words, if we can measure we can calculate Avogadro's number, and Avogadro's number would Avagadro's number tells us, for example, exactly how many atoms in one gram of hydrogen. And if you divide one gram by that number, you then know the exact massive hydrogen. How cool is that? So if we want Avogadro's number, we need the diffusion coefficient. So how are we gonna get that? Well, here's the genius part. Einstein realized that we can calculate the diffusion coefficient by observing them move. Brownian particles move in the same way as what mathematicians call a random walk. In other words, the particles in a random direction after And then Einstein said, look, well, if we can record the measure how far they travel on average over a set time period, we can then get a value for So Einstein was able to take equations from the world of things that we can't see and apply them to things that we can see. And then he was able to figure out a way to measure one of the unknown by observing those things that we can see. And that is the bridge between two worlds that Brownian motion creates. Three years later, Jean that experiment and to be 7.15 times 10 to the 23. We now know it to be Hey, I mean, that's not bad, is it? There's one really interesting thing I want to say about Avogadro, but first, can we just take a minute to recognize how I mean, it's obvious, I suppose. But to hammer the point home, he published three One on relativity, one on he won the Nobel Prize for that one. And of course, his theory of But that third paper that he the one about Brownian motion helped to convince the world And at the same time, he gave us a way to actually calculate the mass of atoms. It's unbelievable. That's why they call 1905 which is Latin for anus mirror balls. I think it's like an exclamation. Like if you see something amazing, you go, oh wow, three papers Back to Avogadro though. Something surprising about gases is it doesn't matter how heavy the individual atoms or If you have a certain volume of a gas at a specific temperature and pressure, then you will have the same number of atoms or molecules of that gas regardless of what the gas is. So at room temperature and pressure, 22.4 liters of a gas will contain an Avogadro's Just playing with the numbers a bit, that means that this 3.6 milliliters of air into, and this one that has 3.6 and this one that has all have 100 million regardless of the fact that they all weigh different amounts. That's weird, isn't it? Brown, Einstein, and Perrin looked at a complex and seemingly random process and were able to discern that lay beneath. Which reminds me, I really Jane Street's Academy that is now accepting applications for the summer 2024 program. It's a no-cost educational program for recent high school graduates interested in maths and computer science, who have also experienced barriers to accessing advanced STEM It's a program run by Jane Street, a company that looks at the complex and seemingly random world of finance and finds the profound They're like Brown, Einstein The curriculum focuses on mathematics, computer programming, data It's a five week in-person but they're accepting applications Not only is travel paid for, but food and accommodation is as well. And successful applicants will receive $5,000 scholarship towards To celebrate the opening Jane Street have put together logic puzzle to wet your appetite. If you do solve it, feel free to include the You don't need to solve it's just a bit of fun. The puzzle is at the along with everything Applications close on the 13th of March so check out the AMP program today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and the algorithm thinks (upbeat music)