- Hey, Gino, this photo you - [Gino] Forget about it. Just refocus it with the Lytro app. - Lytro doesn't exist anymore, Gino. - [Gino] No, they're They have too much money to fail. - Wanna bet? Sponsored by Linode, cloud (energetic upbeat music) Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome, and this is the Lytro light field camera. This special camera lets you focus a photo after you already shot it. So today we're gonna explore see what the camera is really capable of and talk about why a $360 Lytro's original name was Refocus Imaging founded by Dr. Ren Ng in 2006. Refocus Imaging specialized A technology we'll dive into more in a bit but the short of it is, a light field camera lets after it's been shot, like during an onstage demo in 2008. Now, necessity is the So why did Ren want to make this thing? Ren Ng had a hard time photographing his family friend's daughter's This was probably due to and shutter lag, which is an issue Refocus when they released their in 2011 the company and Ren was the first CEO. Charles Chi joined as executive chairman. Kurt Akeley joined as and Ben Horowitz, Patrick Chung and Mike Ramsay joined the board. In short, there were a lot of big names with a lot of dinero getting in on this. In October, 2011 Lytro officially the Lytro Light Field Camera, which captures interactive And it went on sale on Now, how much does it cost? The wealthier you are the CollegeHumor reference, anyway, it was 399 for the 8-gig model So now let's test out what and what better way to do go outside and take some pictures. I'm working with my fellow who helped me test the iPhone Our mission is twofold. Try to capture in the moment photos and try to be creative all with the Lytro Light Field Camera, and no other hardware. (upbeat energetic music) (camera clicks) It's break time. Hey, we're in Chicago so we have to have some But we can't eat it before with our amazing 1.16 megapixels. Mm-mm, scrumptious, serve - All right. - I'm gonna need a lot (Brad laughs) So we tried portrait shots, wide shots, macro shots, telephoto all sorts of different things. And that gave me a great idea So let's talk about the and then I'll tell you about The original Lytro camera Red Hot, Electric Blue and Graphite. Blue and Graphite had eight whereas Red Hot had 16, which accommodated The camera has a built-in and an internal battery, which will last for about 400 pictures and it can be recharged with And I will say after using the battery was only half dead. The design is long and rectangular with a lightweight aluminum chassis in a silicone rubber grip. It's 4.41 inches long and And I will say, one of the coolest aspects of this camera is the and you don't see this kinda So, it definitely grabs your attention. The Lytro's longness with an effective focal length with the camera's 6.5 by which is about double the size of the iPhone 4S's camera sensor. But despite the sensor being about twice as big as the iPhone 4S, the picture resolution and we'll talk about why in a sec. Lytro uses a constant f2 lens, meaning the aperture size remains the same at any focal length. The more open the aperture, the more light can hit the sensor and the depth of field And the shutter speed to 1/250th of a second. Longer shutter equals more There's also a built-in which I did not expect. This filter lowers the without needing to adjust And lastly, we'll talk about ISO, the sensors sensitivity to light. It ranges from 80 to 3,200. The higher the ISO, the but more noise will appear. So those are the specs and But now let's talk about the big feature, which makes this thing different from every other camera that The light field sensor. A light field is the volumetric in traditional photography, two dimensions of an image are captured, in light field photography, a the angle of all light rays in the scene. This idea was first proposed by Gabriel Lippmann on March 2nd, 1908. Under the original term there's several ways a light For example, Google's rig of multiple GoPros aligned on an arc. This is the rig they use to make the welcome to In Lytro's case, they use instead of multiple cameras with multiple lenses and sensors, an MLA uses multiple small This produces a single of hundreds of sub images. Each sub image captures light at a slightly different location in space. Essentially, the camera from many slightly different viewpoints. The Lytro camera's, light field of these light rays or 11 And the light field all the the data in camera. And this allows us to and 3D movement effects Lytro advertises. So that's the hardware, but Software, the camera to change exposure and set focus, an upward swipe reveals a the creative mode toggle, Status icons for storage An upward swipe also shows a settings gear which lets you turn on manual erase the storage and reboot the camera. Swiping down reveals the shutter speed and ISO sensitivity settings. You can manually set them or use auto mode and even enable an ND filter. However, the manual were not in the original software. Those features came in a And swiping left let's you Now, I felt dumb for a while because I was trying to figure out how to actually zoom in to take a photo and I was tapping around the screen and like pinching and So I finally read the manual. It turns out there's these little bumps on the silicone rubber grip and when you move your finger that's what lets you zoom in and out. The zoom control also lets you zoom in on previously shot photos to browse everything in So what's this creative mode thing? When creative mode is off, this is referred to as everyday mode. In this mode, the user cannot tap to focus on a specific subject. When creative mode is on, you can tap to focus on This is useful for portrait shots with really shallow backgrounds And I'm assuming this than it is computational to an extent because when you turn on creative mode you can hear the auto-focus motors moving. They barely move at all in everyday mode. (auto-focus motors whirring) And yes, you're able to change the focus of a photo after you shoot it but that only applies If you're in creative mode and you optically have a background or a foreground subject out of focus, that blur cannot be because that's not being That's purely being done optically by the lens and the aperture. So now you have all these pictures. What do you do with them? Well, that's where the Lytro When you plug in a Lytro an installer image The image contains an HTML file, which guides the user on but it doesn't work properly nowadays because it's trying to that was shut down. Thankfully, archives exist and I was able to download the installer from lightfield-forum.com. Specifically, I'll be using After installing the app you can import the images Then you can browse the images in thumbnail view, picture The info button lets you And the adjust button You can make basic adjustments like exposure, shadows, and saturation. But truly, we're here to That's the whole point. You can click on any part of And since we're capturing you can click and drag around of the photo slightly. There's also a sidebar with more controls. You can change the F-stop for a photo, even after it's been shot. You can also adjust the focus spread, which lets you blur the background and foreground of an image independently. These features let you fix but they also let you get creative with making more blurry backgrounds and making the subject pop more. You can also animate your pictures. You can stimulate camera movements and rack focusing inside But the fun doesn't just People could share these When a picture is exported users can upload them with them simply inside a web browser. No special software required. You can also export your and you can export still even a lenticular image so you can create beautiful This is an example of a lenticular image. (notification dings) I didn't shoot this with Sonic's not real, yet. So that's the hardware and the software. But how do these features come together and work in the real world? In a sentence, the Lytro camera is very... What do the kids say these days? Mid. Before I criticize the Lytro I will say the design is very pretty and the light field for a one of a kind tiny product. And the camera is fast within a second I can wake it from sleep and take a photo. And the macro mode works well. The details from this and even this tiny film cell looks good. With all that aside, the is sadly not that great. For starters, the output That's only 1.16 megapixels, which is less than the first So no matter how good they're still gonna be very small compared to other 2012 The next big drawback is the display. It's very low resolution and it's very small, making it difficult to actually see what And since it's a touchscreen your finger is gonna when you try to press the touch buttons which I found cumbersome at times. And I was willing to overlook But the more I used it, the The display is not bright and It was difficult to see the display while taking photos outdoors, If it was sunny, it would've And the viewing angle is terrible. If you're not looking at the image gets washed out now it's time to discuss The dynamic range is very low. When increasing the foreground exposure the sky will easily wash out. And cloud details, for example, are lost. Or when photographing the highlights clip and And I know on an overcast day it's hard to judge cloud detail but even in my layer, highlights are completely lost. There's also some weird speckle in some of the images. And the process blur sometimes of unblurred pixels around My theory is the micro lens array is causing this weird pattern because this flies eye to an MLA design. Color accuracy is also sporadic. Sometimes color will look okay and sometimes color will look dull. This can be corrected in editing software but it's more steps the And the optical zoom is handy but operating it is a You have to constantly swipe your finger across these little notches to get it to zoom in all the way. I don't know, it just feels a little slow. And the final problem, this Oh wait, that's just my head, nevermind. And I can't imagine many consumers would wanna go through all of their photos and fix the focus after the I consider myself decently and even I found the software tedious and I'm using a newer version. The rendering times for if you have the quality set to best, even for just a six this laptop is a higher end and it came out a year But it still took several minutes for it to export the six And I don't think consumers are gonna want to deal with that. Similar to the Magic Cube situation, it seems like Lytro getting the light field that they didn't spend enough resources on the rest of the product. The innovation of great tech is awesome but that's just one aspect of a product. But we're just getting started. This was just Lytro's first product. So what happened next? On April 15th, 2013, Jason Rosenthal became the CEO of Lytro, and Jason was a partner at North which would play a big role According to All Things the camera sales were ahead but the official sales figures And you know, they are a private company, so that's their right, but and happy to announce how On November 20th, 2013, Lytro announced they raised along with existing investors. Rosenthal stated this money of Lytro hardware. And the beginning of this The Lytro Illum, announced It featured a more familiar with a larger four inch screen and a 30 to 250 millimeter lens and a 40 Megaray image sensor, compared to 11 in the previous gen. There's also a flash and an SD card slot and And it was only 1,499 during pre-orders. And first gen camera owners And those features sound but I still can't get over The resolution was 2450 x 1634. That's only four megapixels in 2015. My Cannon EOS 7D Mark II, which came out a year before can shoot 20.2 megapixel images. So being stuck with four Heck, even the iPhone 6 Plus, which was the latest iPhone at the time of the Illum's release, had And I know megapixels of quality, but come on! Again, Lytro never announced just like with the first gen and they pivoted away So it seems like they could not grasp the pro/semi-pro market, which, according to the is the type of market they were going for. But I hope you all can drive stick because Lytro is changing gears again. In 2015, Ren Ng stepped down from his full-time duties at Lytro to focus on a professorship at Berkeley. Around the same time, dozens from Lytro, as the company pivoted to light field virtual reality and video. On November 5th, 2015, which the company described as &quot;The world's first for cinematic VR.&quot; And this thing went nowhere. I'm not trying to sound but I have not found any photos or videos of anybody using So did it even get manufactured also? Where are the lenses? Quick, fast forward to 2017 Immerge 2.0 looked much more practical, definitely not as pretty as the original but it actually looked like it featuring 95 cameras and Back to 2016, Lytro which gained a lot of attention at NAB. Lytro Cinema was a high-end camera with a 755 megapixel sensor, which can shoot up to And all the footage you in post-production software, as if you were physically in the studio. You can refocus the shot, you can even replace backgrounds The downside is to capture all this data Lytro Cinema required for one second of video. So to no surprise, this thing flopped too. I mean, the thing again, was huge, it was 6 feet and sometimes 11 feet long. Also, 400 gigabytes is not practical for a lot of facilities. You know, the more I look I see a pattern of over ambition. It just seems like they keep trying to do all these cool things, but at the same time, they're pivoting and not actually landing on something that the market truly needs. And in the case of the Illum, for example, that camera fell short of And then what does Lytro do? They overcorrect with the Lytro cinema, and now it was too overwhelming and it's just like polar opposites and they just can't find the sweet spot. They can't win. But despite all of these problems, the company was still but not for long. In a March, 2018, blog they are winding down the company and not taking on new productions. There were reports that for $40 million but I can't confirm that, according to TechCrunch for between 25 and 40 million. But it was a hiring deal, not Google declined to comment Lytro also had 59 patents. So the people in the patents is probably what Google wanted more So that leads us to the big question. Why did Lytro as a company fail? Okay, yeah, you could and it was harder to find more investors because they were losing so much cash. But I like to go deeper than that, and I meditated on all of and I boiled it down to one key point that started with their first product. Lytro was a 2006 vision living in 2012 and the world changed with two big products that iPhone and Android. If Lytro somehow could have would it have been a bigger success? Yeah, probably, consumer expectations were different back then. This camera could only and it was not connected to wifi for easy sharing and transferring. But in 2006, that was But it launched in 2012. Smartphones were in the hands at that time and they conveniently had Not to mention, the average price of a smartphone in early 2012 was $378. So justifying a $399 was likely not in To give Lytro credit, eventually they did in their first gen camera Apparently wifi hardware it just wasn't being enabled initially. And they also launched a mobile app but in the long run, it And within the next several years smartphone started integrating that used depth data like the HTC One M8 in 2014 and the iPhone 7 Plus in 2016. So all of these factors which is something I talked about in my laser keyboards episode. If a product can't cross the of the early majority of And a failed product equals no sales. And no sales equals no revenue. The company can't survive. And adoption wasn't just an it was an issue with all their products. But Ken, how were they valued so high? Yeah, I know it sounds ridiculous, right? Look, I'm not a venture capitalist guru. And again, they're a private company, so they didn't announce their financial information publicly. So I can't give a true answer. But my quick and dirty answer is, let's just say tech startups for being overvalued. And that's probably what happened here. And for investors, sometimes not black and white So it can be hard, especially to truly target a good valuation. In fact, during a Lytro board GSV Capital investor, Mark Flynn because we were excited of light field technology not because we wanted to be in the consumer electronics business.&quot; So the faith was there but unfortunately that faith On the bright side, we can to light field technology with like shooting in portrait and cinematic mode on the iPhone, where the blur is Do those features exist because of Lytro? Maybe, it's hard to say for sure but I will say this was still and I encourage you And if you wanna download the files that I generated with this thing, you can check out the And also, if you have nothing because the best camera is And I know Lytro wasn't but another L company that was They were bought by Akamai. And if you have an application or website that needs to be scaled and deployed, Linode has the 24/7 support and infrastructure that you need. Linode offers out-of-box apps for game servers like TF2, You can run your own virtual build an online application with Joomla's content management system or build a video streaming site with a multitude of app choices. There's so much you can do with Linode's affordable And to boot they offer award-winning Visit linode.com/computerclan and click one of the signup buttons. And when you do that we'll give you a 60 day $100 credit just for watching this episode. And you're also supporting So thank you very much. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (energetic upbeat music) The cheese is under the sauce.