- [Andrew] This episode of by Bright Cellars, a monthly with fine wine you'll love, and delivers it right to your door. Bright Cellars is offering you 50% off your first six bottle So follow the link in to take the quiz and get started. The flavor profiles of these perfectly with the concept advanced grilled cheese. Let's get down to basics. (upbeat music) (relaxed music) All right, so first we must what is a grilled cheese? Despite the specificity of its name, it is not necessarily grilled, but rather a sandwich that is grilled, fried, or toasted containing cheese, bread, butter, and nothing else. Purists will tell you that if like tomatoes, or ham, or you've disqualified your and in fact have made a melt. And the classic yellow American cheese and buttered white bread combo is immutably a perfect invention. So how can we do something so bold as to even attempt to improve upon something which needs no improvement? Well, we're gonna have and bend the rules a little bit by introducing some interesting cheeses and flavors to the party. Let's start with some best You could use anything from oil to mayo to toast your bread in, but the undisputed reigning champ 10,000 years in a row is butter. Ideally room temperature, softened butter. You could melt some butter in if you're in a time crunch, like this enables you to get on the surface of your sandwich. Next up cookware, the for which are nonstick and cast iron. Lastly, the method. I like to start my which sort of helps the bread adhere to the cooking surface So we're gonna start by plopping down our first slice of laying down our cheese or cranking the heat up to until the sandwich is toasted on one side. Give it the old flip-see-doo and repeat until golden Once complete it's gotta cool before your delicate human which I like to do on a wire rack set in a rimmed baking sheet. This both gonna prevent the and is a great place to keep in a low oven if you're Then you know the rest, slice in half, use your nose to scoot like an adorable otter. Kinda wiggle the two sides together and press 'em into each other if you wanna maximize your cheese stretch, yank into two and devour. Now, a few ways that we can have some fun with this time tested format. First up the inside out grilled cheese that I know most of us which calls for lightly grading cheddar over the outside of your Toast and top up as normal, on things because this Flip and finish on the other side, and there you have it, the only even more cheesy, by applying of its internal and external surface area. But what if we wanna change up the cheese on the inside of the sandwich? The vast majority of cheeses The vast majority of as well as American. If you click the link in right now you can see how to into a good melting cheese, but otherwise we're gonna resort to a very innovative method that involves using a food processor. This gives us the opportunity cheeses with lots of flavor that normally might not melt so well. Case in point, aged cheddar. Here we have seven ounces that we're gonna place along with an excellent melter, two ounces of rind removed brie. We also need to up the liquid content so we're gonna add two and process together for about Then we can optionally roughly chopped, tossing and pulsing just a few times into the cheese mixture. And there you have it, a that's gonna behave a whole lot better than any of the individual Once you've buttered your bread you could pat this cheese or just spread it straight onto the bread if it's soft enough. Toast up in the pan as usual, and like all great grilled cheeses by the time the exterior is cooked, the interior should be gooey and melty. And when I say gooey, with If you allow it to cool, but I love the lava like from one of these And it got me thinking to use this technique to our advantage. And the first thing that came to mind was a jalapeno popper grilled cheese. Over here I've got six and two ounces of mild white cheddar, both excellent melters. But something that is is one ounce of cream cheese, which almost kind of Anyway to emulsify our mixture we need a little bit of liquid. So this time instead of wine of Mexican beer, letting And then instead of roughly chopped added roughly processed. And there you have it, our cheese paste filling, is even delicious just on its own. This time instead of spreading I'm forming it into a patty, pressing everybody down a little bit, toasting as usual, flippin', What I thought was an impossibility. Translating the flavors and textures of a jalapeno popper to Like I said, this will be less sloppy if you let it wait, but I couldn't wait. And sure I ended up getting doused in burning hot cheese but it was worth it. This one's goin' on my resume right next to proficiency Wow, my resume says I knew Linux? I just straight up lied about that. Next up let's try to put twist on the inside out grilled cheese with what I'm calling a First, we have to make by sauteeing one small in two tablespoons of butter, adding one tablespoon and two teaspoons of dry mustard. Whisking into an which we're gonna use to thicken a quarter cup of dark brown ale, whisking constantly so Adding one tablespoon making sure that's completely incorporated before adding 10 ounces of good yellow English cheddar. Whisk thoroughly until and you're left with a Which we're gonna cover and keep warm until we're ready to use it. Now you can do this for but adding a teaspoon of mustard to about four tablespoons of Something that's gonna play real nice with this grilled cheese. I'm spreading our mustard of hearty sourdough, in a cold cast iron pan, arranging a few slices tearing off any overhangs and no cheese gets left behind. Toast that up as usual, maybe a little shy of where you'd normally want it because this guy is gonna Once toasted we are evacuating set in a rimmed baking sheet, but we're now topping it with which is going to take a very stint under a broiler and ready to be eaten by our mouths. I'm gonna cut this guy in half and garnish with some And there you have it, a truly the double decker Welsh rarebit. Rarebit rabbit, I don't Stretch it apart, take and this guy's ready to eat with a knife and fork or with your hands if you're feeling bold. I'm sorry, do I have No? Okay, thank you. Next and last, things are We're gonna start by You can buy these in the store but they are better made from scratch. However, they are time consuming, about 30 minutes to do it properly. Basically you wanna cook in a little bit of oil rich brown and have a I'd be perfectly happy to but it's gonna be even For our cheese filling we have seven ounces of comte cheese, which we're gonna cube up and combine in the food processor and two tablespoons of Which we're gonna do the whole process into a paste thing, about 60 seconds. Then this time I'll mix of our beautifully caramelized Pulse that a couple of times just to chop up and disperse This time our bread of choice which despite being already very buttery we're gonna generously butter Then just like normal brie is gonna be well complemented with some nice tart fruit flavors, and I think fig jam is Go ahead and spread a few before topping with a pressed Toast this guy up as usual and for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and dessert, because this guy can handle It is gooey, rich, cheesy, But that being said, too delicate for this form factor. So I think that this guy from the croque monsieur treatment. That is we're gonna make by melting two tablespoons of butter, adding two tablespoons of flour, and cooking and whisking until the raw flower smell dissipates. And then slowly, and whisking constantly adding about a half a cup of whole milk, making sure to tiny whisk the before adding any more Then all we gotta do is Hang on a second, I'm gonna flipping method I've seen on TikTok. You flip the pan over the sandwich, and oh boy that was a bad Why did this need a hack? Was it that hard to flip a sandwich? Anyway, this guy's headed onto a rack set in a rimmed baking sheet getting topped with our And I didn't think it grilled cheese any more decadent, but here we are folks, we did it. And this is definitely a grilled cheese that's going to need the Maybe even eating it off a But any and all grilled use the Bright Cellars treatment. Thanks again to today's a service that selects wine just for you from all around the world and delivers it right to your door. This service is only The folks at Bright Cellars take pride in educating their club members so each box comes with for each bottle that suggested pairings, ideal And you don't even have go to a store, and rely on your own wits to pick out a bottle Bright Cellars does it all for you. All you have to do is enjoy. In this box I received a a rich, full bodied, that I think is gonna go just perfectly with our brie fig jam and Bright Cellars is offering you 50% off your first six bottle That's seven bottles in total. Follow the link in the video description to take the quiz and get started. (relaxed music)