- I've gotten a few emails They're like, &quot;Oh my God, And that's actually a And if you scan the QR code, - You're joking me. Little details like that Kariza's videos, and they her cinematic world. It's almost like the is what it feels like. - I like to say that it's versus what we think - She's not doing the traditional Casey Neistat style, improvised adventure. She's carefully crafting all the details and shots of the videos before - And then I'll go into storyboarding. - Oh my God, Kariza, you're like you're a pre-pro demon. - The better the pre-production is, the better the end result will be. - Kariza has spent the last on this reimagined approach Three weeks after her first vlog, she hit 100,000 subscribers, I'm sitting down with Kariza to discuss what she's learned over the last year and three core concepts for her creativity. - This is the plan. At least stick to these and then everything else go (sheep baas) - You're on a course to produce And how many months in - Well, I'm going up on one year. - On one year, okay. - So we're gonna watch 12 or 13 clips from your last year of filmmaking. - Mm-hmm. - And we've got them spaced out here and I wanna see if we can your journey as a filmmaker, and how you've developed and kind of how you see that as well. - Yes, let's do it. Let's start, here we go. (upbeat music) - So, oh, I have a couple of things that I need to get done today. - I love that sequence. You leave in bloopers and things. - Yeah. - I feel like, it's more I feel like a lot of the time very like, very tight. And that's good for some things, but then I think that when I I wanted it to be a And I think moments like this, the audience can actually this is just like real life, almost.&quot; - Yeah. of a personable trait very strict and numb and perfect. - Totally. to film for a future video, and in efforts to document my life better, I thought that it would be a great idea to vlog. - Yeah. (laughs) And do you know that that final line, you're gonna Do you know that? - I more so was like, okay, it's more interesting when but you're also doing something. I think that's my way to cope - Right. it's also as if you are Like, not all the time that and not doing anything. - No. with somebody at your house, maybe you're doing something and you can talk to them when you're washing dishes or whatever. So I feel like it's a little bit more casual, and for me as a creator, to talk to the camera - Yeah. I was like, okay, if I'm then maybe it can lead up to this moment where I'm like, That's the mission of the video, - Right. - It also adds a little bit of interest 'cause we don't know what you're gonna do with those headphones. And so it creates a little bit of mystery. Like, we're wondering, What is she doing with that? - So I used to do a lot and we would do, you know, you would go out on stage and you would start some kind of activity, like, you're cooking. And the rule was you can't So the conversation has to and it creates a little bit of tension or something in a scene because you have to And it, I don't know, it or something like that. and then even when you rewatch the video, you're like, oh, okay, this is where it actually comes into play. - Yeah. kind of things, and also, it's pushing the scene forward. - Yeah. because I'm packing, which is like point A to point B. - Oof. I want it to be purposeful - Interesting, it's a new piece of information in the narrative that pushes the story forward. - Yes. Ooh, that's a really good tip. It's like, what is happening in this scene that is the next button, essentially. - Exactly. (upbeat music) Glitter and a touch of glamour - Hey! - Okay, how many takes? (Jack and Kariza laugh) I think we just rolled I think the clip itself is 10 minutes. We couldn't take too much time because we were like, you know, there was traffic on the road. - Right. - But I was like, I dreamed up this shot. This was filmed after I - Mm-hmm. how do I introduce a character without saying, &quot;Oh, hey, this She's like this,&quot; but you see she's waiting for me. And then when you play she's like, &quot;Really?&quot; And you're assuming like, &quot;Oh, and her friend is already used to this.&quot; It's like, okay, so it says a lot about her character too, as a supporting character, on how I introduce her into my world. - Yeah. about me as a friend as well and our dynamic is there. - Are you think, like as you're writing, are you thinking about Like, &quot;Hey, what new information in this scene?&quot; Are you literally thinking about that when you're storytelling? - You are? how do I introduce a character? What is our dynamic on screen? A good example is &quot;Ferris - I'm taking a day off. Now get dressed and come on over. - I can't, stupid. I'm sick. - That's all in your head. Come on over. - I feel like complete shit, Ferris. I can't go anywhere. - Ferris, he wants to go about the town. He's very carefree. And he's like, &quot;Oh, come on.&quot; And then we have Cameron I don't wanna do this. But eventually he comes - Yeah. an interesting dynamic, versus like, &quot;Okay, yeah, let's go.&quot; - Right. - There's no tension. - Yep. Makes sense. Impress me Show me real amour Flower curtains, rose petals on my bed I'm your Is that just leaning out the window, or? - So I rolled down my window all the way and then I clamped it on the door. - Is that some kind of clamp mount or something for your camera? I used a super clamp, a Manfrotto super clamp. - Oh. And then a magic arm and then I kind of just prop it there and then I get whoever's to hold it for me. - And then I just drove - And what's the camera for this video? - So I filmed this video on a Sony a7S II. I had that camera for so long, I think, I mean, in the tech world, it's a long time because there There's like, it was a good camera for its time, I wanna say that. But it was an old camera. It was falling apart by the But I mean, it got the job done. (laughs) - Nice. And what do you film on now? - I film on the Sony FX3. I have it here with me, actually. - Well, I have my vlog lens on this. - Okay. Why is that, why do 'Cause it's wide? - Do you know how wide it is? What is it? - It's an 11 millimeter. It's super wide. Oh man, look at that! and you can go up really close to your face. - And you're still in it. of barrel distortion on the edges. - Yes. - But I think it's nice for a POV and then I can literally - Oh my God. I gotta get an 11 millimeter. The widest lens I have is a - Yes. It was recommended to But usually I would shoot on a 24-70. - Okay. of the cinematic look. - Why the FX3? - I mean, this was my dream At the time I was filming this, I wasn't doing YouTube full time. It was still a dream of mine. So I knew that I wanted I love the tones. I feel like it's very, it has And I love to color grade, so I thought that I just - Yeah. So you shoot everything in LOG? - I do, yes. SLOG3. - Yeah. Premiere for color or do - No, I'm on DaVinci Resolve. - I am, I am a DaVinci Resolve user. My whole workflow is in DaVinci. - Okay, so you use - Yes. - So everything is in DaVinci Resolve, from editing, and then it goes into color, and then all the audio stuff. I just do everything in that program. - Awesome. Okay, cool. I've not used DaVinci Resolve yet, but I've heard amazing things about it. And obviously it's like the one everybody's- - I know. - Everybody's switching to it. I remember when I, on the from Pro Tools to Ableton in probably like 2010. It was like one of the So, I don't know. It's hard to change software, but I think it's actually really good. - It's gonna be one of those moments. - Yeah, I think so. (upbeat music) Do you have a dolly? - Yeah. - This was actually on a Boosted Board. - I have a Boosted Board! - Yeah, so my partner, Colt Kirwan, he's also a YouTuber, and he is actually, he works for other YouTubers, which is super handy, because I'm like, &quot;Hey, but I don't have a dolly and I can't lay tracks on - Yeah. - And he's like, &quot;Well, And I'm like, &quot;Okay, perfect.&quot; So we found this gorgeous street and I was like, &quot;Okay, just don't get hit by a car.&quot; (Kariza and Jack laugh) But we did the shot like, He's super patient. But we eventually got the shot, and this was exactly what I had in my head when I wanted to add to my vlog. - Yeah. the camera on the Boosted Board? - He is. the Bluetooth control to - Yes. of a longer lens. we filmed it on, this was actually on his camera, 'cause I did not have an FX3 at this time. It was a Sony a7S III, the 24-70 lens. - Okay. the versatility of that lens 'cause I knew I was gonna get a lot of coverage when I went out to film. - Yeah. so I wanted a wide shot. I wanted to see the background and then I wanted to main character moment of kinda like &quot;Juno.&quot; And if I was a tree All I'd want is you to - Oh, I love that movie. - It's such a good movie. - I'm very influenced by 2000s rom-coms. I love it. If Michael Cera's in it, I probably- - Oh yeah. - He's the freaking So wait, you just used the term coverage. So, are you reading books on filmmaking? Did you go to film school? Like what's your, like, how do you know that term? - So before YouTube, I was a freelancer for around like five years. I did videography at first and then I tried to freelance more in the traditional film industry. - Right. I learned all these terms and then how to get full Like what does that look like? And it's also studying And it's a simple formula 'cause if you're on location, you just gotta get what you need. And so I never wanna take So I'm like, &quot;Okay, get a wide shot.&quot; And then, yeah. - I try not to overshoot. - Sometimes - I overshoot, I can't help myself. And it makes editing- I was guilty of it. Yeah. - It makes editing so much harder. But like, I would rather than not enough I think. - And so I end up just shooting a lot. - I used to be like that. I used to have that mindset And then I started and then my mind changed a lot. I was like, I just need than I know that I need, - Right. - So that's where scripting is very handy. - Right. - So now I'm like, okay, for this shot, or for this scene, I have Or in this case, I have a And then I kind of go - Right. I'll be like, okay, and then I'll cut to an And then each time the to get full coverage if So then I know for sure like, okay, at least I have something to work with. - And do you map that out Or how are you scripting? - Right now I am in Apple - That's what I use! It's so great. So sometimes, so I'll script out or bullet points at least, And then sometimes I'll even for a certain scene, just I'm going for for that video. After that, from the and then I'll go into storyboarding. - Oh, you storyboard? - Oh my God, Kariza. Really? I really do, because 30 shots I need to do in a day. I'm not gonna remember each I've tried and each time I So instead I just have things And then I'm just like, - Okay, so you go script in Apple Notes, into like a spreadsheet of shot lists. - Not a spreadsheet. Okay. It's more like, an office scene. - No, it'll be a separate note. - A separate doc. Okay. shot list, so cinematic frame sequence, it's like, you can see, there's just like, top down, closeup, closeup, show camera, medium shot, closeup. So it would just be stuff like that. - This is so cool. a little bit descriptive - Right, right. - You're like super prepared upfront. Like you're a pre-pro demon, you're putting all your time - Yes. It's very important to me. - Yeah. oh my God, it's a disaster of editing. - Yeah. the pre-production is, the better the end result will be. And it's a streamlined - Yeah. it's a pain. a super organized person in general? Like in your life? that right now as I'm talking to you. (Jack and Kariza laugh) - I mean, it just sounds Yeah. I guess the more production I put into it, the more I'm like, okay, I need to know exactly what I'm doing. - Right. in helping me film, I need to be able to communicate exactly what we're doing and to not waste any time. - Right. everything just takes so long. Filming takes long. Editing takes long. Scripting takes long. So the more consistent - And then, I want to keep watching, but one more question about storyboards. Are you drawing storyboards? - Yes. They're not good, though. So let me make that clear. But I'm just quickly writing out how the composition will look. - Okay. Just as fast as I can. Yeah. - But as long as I have an This is it. And then I - Right. some kind of reference - Right. Makes sense. - Okay, cool. Something that I can allow myself to . . . - Yo! - Switch gears for a while. What are you doing tomorrow? (upbeat music) Ready? - So I just have to call out that you did that's really good, that is like a really good clearly you're thinking of something. And then you ask the question. What are you doing tomorrow? (upbeat music) - And the music comes in maybe. (upbeat music) Five seconds before we know, like four or five seconds And those five seconds we're like, &quot;What is she talking about?&quot; - Yeah. - Yes. It's deliberate. I feel like it's a good without being like, &quot;Okay, I like to, like I know And I also know it's very waiting for that moment to come versus holding - Right. that I try to do a lot in put together the pieces and then instead of verbally - Right. to lead in with the music - Yeah. it keeps them engaged, but then also I can have fun before moving on to the next thing. - Right. - It's such a great way, there's so many different You can tell stories with voiceover, you can tell stories with shots, you can tell stories sometimes with music. And I think in this case, you're which is like, we're which you told us with music. - Yes. - And I'm thinking it it's like almost it's and then we see it. - Yeah, and then I guess also feel that way as well. It's a beautiful technique. Yeah, telling stories in different ways, sometimes with sound effects or whatever, it just adds variety throughout the video. And I think you do a where sometimes you're using and it's all kind of on the narrative, you know? - And it's good for pacing as well. - Yes. - Totally. Cool. (upbeat music) Do you feel weird walking with a camera? - I try to do it as fast as possible. (Jack laughs) - Yeah. I don't know if I'll ever get over it and it's way easier when which in this case I did but I just, again, that's where the shot I'm like, okay, I need three And then so I know at least and I can get them fast. - Yeah. - It's also the time that my office is a mess. - The way you do this, obviously, is you write out the script first. You say the line and then you and you cut between them. - Yeah. what I try to do is I'll because I try to at least and then a resolution by the end of it. Just a simple three act When I first started to vlog, I knew that I wanted to challenge myself, but at the same time, I needed to make it as simple as possible for 'Cause prior to this, I was like, I was making videos that took way too long and I wasn't satisfied I felt like, I just needed to do something different. And having a little bit of rules, so it wasn't so much a free for all, where I was like, &quot;Oh, and, you know. - But it was a big enough - Right, right. very simple rules, like have a conflict and a - Yes. - And then maybe like a cinematic shot, and then just pillars that in the final product as - Yeah. was something I'm glad that to vlog for a year. - Wow, so you came up with those pillars before you started vlogging? - Yes, so before, I knew that I thought that for a long that I really wanted to do. - Yeah. - 'Cause prior to that, I was making more, I guess you can call them where it was like, topic and - Right. very rigid. - And I felt like I needed to do something a little bit more loose. - Yeah. was something that not a lot of people were doing at the time. I feel like if you were &quot;Oh, you only should vlog if you're known and you have an audience already.&quot; And I was like, but I just wanna be able to tell a variety of different stories and work on my storytelling And the only niche that I could that it would make sense. - So then I knew that if and then it would be once I was like, in it and so then I wrote out pillars that I could look back on as my north star of, okay, this is the plan. At least stick to these and then everything else I can go and feel free to experiment. - In some ways it sort as a creator, right? - Because we see, there is a lot of consistency across and it's probably, what are those three things again? - I have it on my phone. I can actually show you this list. - Yeah, yeah. Let's see it. - Yeah. Ground rules of challenge. - Have you shared this? - Can you hold it right here? - Oh my God. If you don't want to, that's okay, but. - Oh my God. I wanna see this. Three act narrative. Keep it simple, fun, playful. Love that. One banger cinematic style shot. Dolly, Plexiglas, et cetera. Bonus, one surprise and delight moment. God, that's such a simple set of rules but that's such a great framework to tell a great story. - I love that. Okay, let's keep going. (upbeat music) And is a friend doing the camera or is that a friend walking? - So that's me walking. And then my mom is actually (Jack and Kariza laugh) - She helps me with most of my shots that I need somebody to Most of the time, I try just 'cause it's easier like it's faster to make things on my own, not rely on people. But when I do need somebody and when the shot is bigger than me, then I'll ask my mom if she's around. - Yeah, yeah. So she's the one pushing the camera. - Awesome, by the way, we and he has his brother and - Oh, nice. Yeah. - With his shots as well. - Yeah. I've only been home a before needing to leave again. But this time I'm glad to be back because I have a special package that has been waiting for me. - Did you plan out that that that went to handheld or - That was intentional. It was intentional, just because I feel like the scene, it's always moving forward, and then when you just talk for so long, it just slows it down. - So I'm like, okay, say and then we're gonna move to handheld, and then we're gonna go back into, yeah. - So you're just trying to create dynamic- - Momentum in the video. - Especially, this is of the video, I just, I and keep it going until it hits the point. Then it's like, &quot;Oh, this - Yeah. - So, okay, one thing I'm with you is like, it's funny, when people use the term vlog, it's usually this very impromptu, unscripted thing, but what you've done, is you've created a cinematic production process to recreate the improvised vlog. - I like to say that it's versus what we think - Yeah. a vlog or the vlog niche I can categorize this as. Because if it's too different on YouTube, then I don't know if it works as well. People need something in order for that new - Right. bringing some new elements into a niche while still keeping familiar elements, so an audience on YouTube can - Totally. - Yep, yeah, it is definitely drawing on YouTube vocabulary. - But then it also feels more produced. It just, it does. the filmmaking aspect of it and the filmmaking production of it. - Right. &quot;Oh, okay, well I'm talking here,&quot; and there are moments that actually are happening in real time. - Right. - But then for the more okay, how can I still make and not like an episode on Netflix or something like that. Oh Oh no - I was holding the camera - Okay. on a tripod and then I whip it and then I just cut it together. - That's awesome. - And then the cut is somewhere like, well there. when you're doing this, but. - But when you watch it back. - Boom. Yeah. And it's so jarring to go with a seamless transition. - It's really cool. the music comes in, and it's like back to our montage. - Right. Right. moving it forward again. - And you're telling us this that we're about to see. You got a surprise package and we're anticipating something big here. - Yes. Here we go again - And here, sorry, I just I've gotten a few emails - Uh huh. &quot;Oh my God, your address is on the label.&quot; And that's actually a And if you scan the QR code, it'll go to my channel. (laughs) - This code right here? like, literally. (laughs) - You're joking me. - Oh my God. that label's photoshopped. Yeah. - Yeah, I did. I just, like, I was watching and a lot of people but I thought that would be Especially if I'm saying like, &quot;Oh, I'm picking up a package.&quot; Why is it already blacked out? So instead, I just made a new label. I was such a sad boy - You don't actually tie twine to mail on any given day? - I could. But no, this is again, art direction. - Right. cinematic world of mine like there's vintage - Right. to tie in things that I and that I like, very subtly. - It's almost like the fairytale of vlogging, is what it feels like. - Yes. I don't know, there's something about it that just feels like the ideal. It's like a, I don't know, it feels like a fairytale. - Yes, I mean, that's exactly I love when things feel a little bit whimsical, and like, yeah, maybe in real life. - But this is me creating - Right, right. - Yeah. That's, yeah. And you've mentioned that you clearly have put a lot of thought into how you want it. It's not what is naturally around you. It's like your fantasy, the world you want to create - Yes. Such a sad boy - Like a handlebar mount or something? How's this happening? - Okay. this was such a tricky shot. This shot only lasts a second because it kept tipping over and it was so hard to But yeah, this is clamped with a very wide angle. I think I was on a smaller lens as well when I was filming this one. - Okay. All right, cool. Caught my eye - Again, another Easter egg, for people who were very concerned and that's not Colt's address either. So my address, if you type that I grew up going to. - Wow. Colt's address is a certain Chipotle that's down the street from 368. And it was the Chipotle he went to after he met Casey Neistat, - Oh my God, Kariza, come on. If no one gets it, that's fine. But to me, it's very satisfying. - That's so interesting that it's like, clearly no one else will know that. So it's not even for - Yes. But if there are people who are curious. - Right. Also, that's something that like other movies, other shows. I love Easter eggs. I love the fandom culture, where you're like, &quot;Oh and this is a call back to this.&quot; So I'm like, how can I bring Even if I'm the only one who notices it. - So great. (upbeat music) That's a fake knuckle crack, of course. But I wanted to be a and a little bit of humor, that's like, &quot;Oh my gosh, that was so dubbed.&quot; (laughs) - Is this Kariza's actual desk? Is it this clean and organized? Or is this fantasy world? - This is fantasy world for sure. I mean, look at the (Jack and Kariza laugh) But here you can actually see a little bit of my storyboards there. - So that's kind of how they look like. But this is clean. - Yeah. It's almost like, I mean I'm trying to, I'm just trying to like It's almost like a Pinterest mood board or something where we're like seeing like, it's like a magazine of your life, you know? - It's like this, I don't know, there's something very, yeah. Again, maybe that's the - And I try to like have little pops of color here and there. I wouldn't say my work bright colors, but I do try to have complementary colors within my shot. - Mm-hmm. Yeah. When I set out to romanticize my life more and document it, I wondered if and when there would ever be a week where I would have to deal with this. - Wow. Such nice lighting in the shot. Can you tell us about the lighting setup? It's really nice. - Off camera, on this side. - I have a big window, which is nice. But unfortunately, it was so that didn't do much. So I have a soft box that's right, 45 degrees from me. But it's on the lowest setting and there's an egg crate on it. So just very natural. I want it to look as natural as possible. - Right. as simple as I can. And especially for something vlogging to the camera. - So I just try to make - Yeah. for the past few weeks and today, today that's gonna. - Do you film on autofocus - So I film on autofocus. Now with the camera that I have, the FX3, it has the eye recognition, so it just tracks wherever you are. On my older camera and maybe the first, I would say, first three I was like, the autofocus So I would have to and just make sure that I would - Yeah. allows more, just like, you can be more loose with it. - Yeah. I had the struggle of it, so I don't, I was like, &quot;Okay, I need a camera that can track me.&quot; - Super cool. Love that. - You're coming up on a year of filmmaking and vlogging here. So what have you learned over that period? If you had to break it down, what are some of the key lessons that you think folks at - I think that, when you're a creator, you want to have the freedom to experiment and to constantly be growing But having an anchor and and to have a bit of structure to what you're doing is so helpful. I feel like a lot of times, or forget why you're doing something, and I feel like if you have something to always refer you back then I think that is something and it also just grounds And so I think for one year, with a style for one year, okay. And then maybe the next season of content, I can be like, okay, now we're gonna just add this element in and in this element in, and then for a season, it'll But I think the one year in staying consistent in this one thing, but also having the freedom to experiment outside those pillars - So cool getting to talk Thank you for taking the time. It's so fun to just pick your brain about how you think about this stuff. - Thank you for having me. (upbeat music)