Xin Bao Ye Mei Ti Hua Wen Mei Ti Ji Tuan She Chang Li Hui Ling (Zhu Chi Ren ): Ge Wei Guan Zhong ,Jin Tian Wo Men Fei Chang Rong Xing Li Xian Long Guo Wu Zi Zheng Lai Gen Wo Men Jin Xing Zhe Yi Chang Lu Bian Dui Hua . Zai Kai Shi Zhi Qian ,Wo Xian Shuo Yi Xia Jin Tian De Gui Ze . Fa Hui Zhe Ge Zhu Chi Ren De Zuo Yong , Xian Gen Zi Zheng You Yi Duan Dui Hua , Ran Hou Zui Hou Wo Men Hui Liu Yi Xie Shi Jian , Ye Rang Guan Zhong Ke Yi Ti Wen . Shi Ji Shang Wo Men Gang Cai Qi Shi Yi Jing Shou Ji Liao Yi Xie Wen Ti . Yin Wei Zhe Ge "Hui Yan Zhong Guo "Shi Ke Zhong Ke Ying , Na Yao ,Xian Qing Yun Xu Wo Yong Ying Yu Lai Gen Zi Zheng Ti Wen . Guo Wu Zi Zheng Li Xian Long : Yun Xu Wo Yong Ying Yu Hui Da . Lee Huay Leng (Moderator): SM, may I start by asking about Suzhou Industrial Park since we are celebrating the 30th anniversary this year. You co-chaired the Joint Steering Committee with Vice Premier Li Lanqing right from the beginning. So after 30 years, what do you think of the project? Is it a good model for bilateral collaboration with China? What have we learned from that? SM Lee Hsien Loong: It was a very successful project, looking back over these three decades. It was our first Government-to-Government (G-to-G) project between the Singapore government and the Chinese government. Very high level, focused support and a very specific objective, which fitted China's needs at that time. Which was, it was in the process of opening up. It was experimenting with developing high quality business environments, investment facilities. It was looking for ways to attract MNC investments - "How do you promote them?", "How do you deal with them?", and then "How do you look after them after they come in?" So, we launched into this, me and Vice Premier Li Lanqing, chairing the Joint Steering Committee. Later it became the Joint Council for Bilateral Cooperation (JCBC) Shuang Bian He Zuo Lian He Wei Yuan Hui and it covered not only this project, but also many other cooperation projects between Singapore and China, which were important. And from this project, we went on to the second project in the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City. We went to do a third project, which was in Chongqing, which is the Hai Lu Hu Lian Hu Tong , which is a land-sea corridor between the western part of China and the South China Sea Bei Bu Wan . And we also have the China-Singapore Guangzhou Knowledge City. So, in that process, discussing very substantive, meaningful proposals which were relevant to both sides, we developed cooperation, friendship, mutual trust and understanding. And both sides also obtained substantial benefits from the actual SIP (Suzhou Industrial Park) in Suzhou. For example, on the Chinese side, the SIP was a flagship project. It is a symbolic project which everybody knows about, all over China. And people came to visit from all over China. And they look at this, first conclusion - "It can be done", that is very important. Second, they pick up ideas - "How it is done?" And third, they go back to their own provinces, their own cities, their own responsibilities, and they apply these ideas, each in their own way. And therefore, there were projects all over China which I think took inspiration from what we achieved in Suzhou. This apart from the fact that in Suzhou itself, the SIP became a very major city. In fact, it is a city which is now maybe one-third the size of Singapore. So, I think on China's side, there was great benefit. On Singapore's side, we also benefited greatly because it gave us a certain reputation; that we knew how to work with the Chinese, that we could get things done, we could get the projects implemented, and the ideas can work. Moderator: But it was challenging in the beginning. SM Lee: Of course, it was quite challenging at the beginning. The cultures were different, there wasn't that mutual trust, and we had to do things which were quite difficult. For example, when we prepared the land for the project, the project team said, "We would like to raise the land one metre, because we are near the Yangtze River, and you have floods every now and again - and I think this is safer." But this was not the practice in China - the floods come, you live with that, and they had learnt to do that. But our project team says: "Invest in it. It will take longer, it will cost more, but it will pay off". And we did. And a couple of years later, it so happened there was a very big annual flood, and I think everybody was glad it was done. And there were other difficulties also, because initially we were the majority partner - Singapore 60, Chinese side, 40. And when you are doing a project like this, you have many discussions. You have to be able to have give-and-take, and not everything can be pinned down according to the contract. And when the majority partner is a foreign partner, it is very difficult politically for the Chinese side to say, I will make this adjustment, this is a small concession in the context of an overall cooperation. So we had many difficult conversations. Eventually we solved it by saying, "No, you take majority 60, we'll go 40. You take the lead. I think it is easier for you to work". And when we did that, I think the political difficulties became less, the practical problems could be solved and the project moved ahead. And year by year, the Chinese side took a more and more prominent role in the leadership of the project, and we eventually evolved to a more supportive role. But the project continued to grow and prosper, and we were very happy to see it do that. Today, it has gone well beyond what we expected. We started with 15 square kilometres. We had planned for 80 eventually - three phases. Today, the SIP is about 270 square kilometres, well beyond where it was. And the projects have evolved, to have high tech projects, to have research and development projects. We have academic institutions, universities present there. I think NUS has a presence there too. It has kept up to date. So we are very happy as proud parents. Last year, President Xi Jinping visited SIP - it was his first stop when he went to Jiangsu province - and he said he was very pleased with it. I haven't been there recently. I am going there next month to celebrate the 30th anniversary, and I look forward to seeing our kid grown up. Moderator: SM, while we established this Quan Fang Wei Gao Zhi Liang De Qian Zhan Xing partnership with China, I think China is running into difficulties with some developed countries. Reading from the Western reports, China has always been cast in a negative light. However, if I talk to Chinese officials, they feel under siege. What are the fundamental problems? Do you think there is anything that China needs to do right, or is it just misperception from the West? SM Lee: I think the fundamental issue - I would not say it is a problem - the fundamental issue is that China has changed so much from what it was, to what it is today. First, the size. When China started its Gai Ge Kai Fang (Open-Door Policy) in 1978 (Di Shi Yi Jie San Zhong Quan Hui ), it was a very small part of the world economy and a negligible part of international trade. Today, it is 20% of the world economy and 20% of global trade. So anything which China does, whether it is good or it is bad, the impact on other countries is enormous. The situation has changed. Secondly, China has developed and become much more advanced. In the earlier phase, it was growing, it was exporting. But it was making things which other countries wanted, needed and did not make themselves. You make clothing, you make belts, buttons, you make lower-end electronics products, assembly of goods, things which other countries were happy to say, "Well, it is not economic for me to do. China can do". But now China has moved up. All those products which are labour intensive and which it used to make, are migrating. They are going to Vietnam, they are going to Bangladesh, other third world countries. And China is moving up. China is making EVs. You are making photovoltaic panels. You have got your pharmaceutical industries. You are in industries which are competing with similar advanced industries in the developed economies. It is a more competitive relationship and therefore China's growth in these markets is not just benefiting the consumers, but also impacting the producers in other countries. And that is difficult. You have to accommodate somehow, but it is difficult. Thirdly, because China has grown and developed so much, its interests around the world have also grown and developed. And not just in scale, but also in the things which you are concerned with. You have strategic interests, you have security interests, you have foreign policy interests in very faraway parts of the world. The Belt and Road Initiative includes countries in South America. And in Africa, China is very active. China's interface with the rest of the world is multifaceted. And then the question comes, "Who is number one? Who is number two? How does number one and number two work together? Can you work together?" I think these are objective changes. There is no doubt that for the world, we are much better off with China like it is today, than with China as it was 30 or 40 years ago or 50 years ago. But it means that there has to be an adjustment. It is not a matter of right and wrong. But it is in China's interest, and it is in the world's interest that this adjustment has to be made. What is the adjustment? It is to acknowledge that the situation has changed, that China's heft, its influence, its impact on the world is on a different scale. And you have to make adjustments and accommodations to the rules, which were set up at a time when China was much smaller. If you are a small economy and your exports actually do not threaten any of my industries, I am prepared to cut you a lot of slack. You can subsidise them, you can protect your own market. You can have all sorts of different privileges, which the more developed economies have decided not to have amongst themselves. But when you are not so underdeveloped, and when you are huge, and when your exports can be maybe 80% of the global manufacturing of photovoltaic panels, for example, then those concessions are no longer politically tenable. And it has to be worked out. It has to be re-negotiated so that you can have a good basis. I think that is very hard. That is one thing China has to do. On the other side, on the part of the other countries in the world, you have to get used to the fact that there is going to be a very big China in this world, a very powerful and developed China in this world, a China which has advanced technologies, which is going to be world-class in many areas and world-leading in some. And we have to have some way to induct them into the global system and to accommodate their legitimate concerns and interests. And if you do not do that, and you say, "No, I do not want China to be strong. I want it to remain always number two or better still, number 2.5", I think that is going to head for a lot of mutual distrust and difficulties. But it is a very difficult adjustment to make, because if you are at 2.5, you wish to become 2. And when you reach 2, you may wish to become 1.5. And so how to have that balance and wisdom to maintain a cooperative relationship which will benefit both sides? I think that takes statesmanship of a very high order on the part of the major powers. Moderator: Do you think it helps if China can explain itself better? SM Lee: I think so. Talking is always useful. But at the same time, there has to be an acknowledgement of the real issues, the hard points: why there are differences with one another, and how we are prepared to accommodate one another. Because if I am not, if all my claims are indubitable and beyond question, and the other side says all my entitlements are also beyond doubt, then there is nothing to talk about. I make you a speech, and you make me a speech, and at the end we go away, Liang Mian Bu Tao Hao - both unhappy. So, it is necessary to have conversation, but it is also necessary to be able to make the accommodations and to take steps together, which can gradually build trust and resolve difficulties. And one of the difficulties is, because of China's size, sometimes China will feel, "But the other countries are doing it, why can't I?" And the answer is, well, "What to do? They are small, you are big." When you are big, you have greater influence; but at the same time, there comes with it, greater responsibilities and the need for restraint. Because in a world without an international order - Ruo Rou Qiang Shi - the weak are eaten by the big, it is the law of the jungle. As Thucydides says, "The powerful do what they will, and the weak suffer what they must." But if the world were like that, everybody is worse off, including the powerful ones, because they will fight each other to the death. So, the great countries, the big countries, have to have a certain self-awareness and restraint and say, "Well, I am entitled to this, if you consult your lawyers and international law. But I restrain myself. I am not only aiming to be stronger than others, but to be accepted, respected, and if possible, to have others also admire me and want to have me as their friend." I think that is the process. Moderator: Now the Americans and the Europeans are saying that China's industrial subsidies have led to over-capacity, over-investment. Do you think that over-capacity is a real issue now? SM Lee: I think in some industries, over-capacity is an issue. For example, steel. There is a worldwide glut of steel, and it happens every so many years. It is the nature of the steel market, its demand waxes and wanes and is never completely in balance. But there are also other industries, like EVs or solar panels, where China has very intense competition and very high production. Solar panels, I mentioned, they are 80% of the global market, and the capacity to produce, actually, is more than 100% of the demand of the whole world. So, I think that is over-capacity. On EVs, if we talk about "Nei Juan ", I think EVs are a prime example, because there are about 150 companies making EVs in China. And China is a big market, but you do not need 150 different brands of EVs. So, in specific sectors, yes, I think there is over-capacity, and some of that will have come from state support and encouragement and financing. But if you take it overall, look at the overall manufacturing sector in China, or the overall economy in China, I do not believe there is over-capacity. And IMF has studied this - they published a report recently. If you look at manufacturing as a whole, the capacity utilisation is respectable - same as in other countries. So, there is no overall over-capacity. But that does not mean there is no problem. So, what is the problem? The problem is China is running a considerable export surplus, balance of payments. Exports exceeding imports, trade surplus. And therefore it is having an impact on other economies and manufacturers elsewhere. And the export surplus is about 2% of China's GDP, which means about half a per cent of the world GDP, and that is not small. So, what is the cause of that export surplus? It is really macroeconomics. It comes about because China has a very high savings rate, a relatively low consumption demand from within China. And if you are saving such a lot, you either have to invest all of it in China or you have to export some of it to the rest of the world. And it is not possible at China's present state of development to invest all that 40% of GDP within China, which is its savings rate. A lot of that is invested in building and construction. But the building industry, unfortunately I think, has gone too far, and that is a problem, and that has to cut back. So how do you adjust? Either you boost consumption domestically, or it will be exported, and it will show up as a balance of payments surplus, which means a deficit for the other countries. America has the opposite problem, by the way. America saves too little, spends too much, and therefore has a balance of payments deficit, which is 3% of their GDP. That is the other side of the problem. On the Chinese side, the solution over time has to be: to increase the domestic consumption and bring the economy into a better external balance. It is not so easy to do because it is not just a matter of households spending more. But it is restructuring the economy so that the household earnings can rise - particularly for those who are not already very well off, and who will then spend the money. And the households must have the confidence to go out and to spend it; whether it is on travel, whether it is on food, whether it is on clothing, luxuries. They tell me that this year, during the golden weeks, the travel demand was less than in previous years. So that is a sign, but it goes beyond that. There has to be economic restructuring. The Chinese have talked about Guo Wai Guo Nei Shuang Xun Huan . That means external circulation - you have trade and economic interdependence with the outside world - but within the country, you also want to have economic circulation and trade and demand created. And that is a slogan from about two years ago, but we have not seen results yet. It is an important problem, because if it is not resolved - for China, never mind the rest of the world - for China, if this is not resolved, you can end up in a very difficult position where you cannot get the confidence restored, and you cannot get the economy moving again. And that is something which I think China can avoid and should work to avoid. Moderator: This morning, a lot of discussion has been on China's economy, and the government has recently announced a series of stimulus packages. What is your assessment of China's economy? SM Lee: I think that the stimulus packages will be helpful in boosting confidence and then perhaps simulating demand to the extent that the money will be spent, and then there will be some multiplier. But I think inherently, at this phase, China's economy will grow slower than it used to. It used to grow 8% to 10% a year, sometimes even more than that. Now, if you can sustain 5% per year for another 10 years, I think you are doing well, and there are fundamental reasons for that. First of all, you are already more mature. It is not so easy to keep on just transforming yourself. Secondly, the labour force is not expanding anymore. The total population has peaked, the working age population has also peaked. It has levelled off, probably starting to come down already, slowly. And so, you can no longer just have a natural expansion of the economy. Thirdly, I think, with the external environment having turned less favourable, there are geostrategic tensions between China and America, even between China and Europe. And so that external environment is not as favourable as before. The foreign investments need more encouragement to come into China. The export markets are not as open as they used to be. So that is another factor which influences China - not just the growth, but also the upgrading and transformation. Fourth, partly in response to this external environment, but also for domestic reasons - I think the Chinese government's priorities have shifted some. In an earlier phase, the slogan was Fa Zhan Shi Ying Dao Li - Economic development is the topmost priority -- is the hard truth. But now, economic development is very important, but trumping that is national security. And I think equalling that, at least, is domestic political considerations. In that situation, I think the environment for people to spend, for companies to start up, or for big companies to build new businesses, I think will be more cautious. It is inevitable. The government will give reassurances that they do want the private sector to have an important role. They do want entrepreneurs to have confidence. But the national security considerations are important. The political considerations cannot be ignored. And that has an impact. So these things, I think, will weigh on the Chinese economy, in addition to the specific economic problems. For example, dealing with a housing overhang and the construction problems; and the financial problems which come from that; for example, the debt. Moderator: So, should we be pessimistic or optimistic? SM: Well, I think it is very unwise to write off China. This works in both directions. The Westerners say, "We will do this and the other, and China will stay down." I tell them they are wrong. They do not fully believe me. When I go to China, and sometimes, the confidence with which my hosts expound their views cause me to tell them "You know, the Americans have a lot of problems. You can see all of the problems, but they have a lot of strengths, and sometimes you cannot see all of their strengths. And they are not going to disappear, and they will be there and formidable, I think, for a very long time to come." And I am not sure whether they fully understand why I am saying this, so I think both sides have this danger of underestimating the other. But on the Chinese side, there are some reasons which we can be confident that this is a country which is going to be there for a very long time. First of all, it has already been there 5,000 years. But even the factors which hold it back - for example, the fact that its population and workforce is not growing - are not things which have to bind and paralyse it. The population may not be growing, but you can make better use of the population, the workforce. China's retirement age is very low -- women at 50, men at I think 55. It is going to be adjusted now, the government is shifting it; women going to 55, men going to 60 -- but still quite low. Even that adjustment is not easy to make, and it is going to take them I think until about 20 years to achieve. So if you can stay productive longer, if you can stay active longer, if you can make full use of the women Fu Nu Ding Ban Bian Tian - therefore they should not retire early! So that is one major source of growth capacity. Another one is the rural population. China has been urbanising very systematically. Every year, about 1% of the population, 15 million people, have been moving from rural to urban, to the cities. That means, really from the agricultural sector, from farming into the cities, manufacturing, providing services. Maybe they are construction workers, but moving from the traditional economy to the modern economy. But still, 35% of China's population is rural. And if you look at the developed countries, their farming population is like 2%, 3% of the population, that is all. So China's process is not complete yet. You have to work to make it carry on and to make it productive. You have to have jobs for them in the cities. You need to have "Hu Kou " for them in the cities. You need to have homes for them in the cities. You need to provide for their kids in school. And you also must have agricultural reform so that it is possible for them to make use of the land which they have been farming. Maybe lease it out to somebody, or sell it to somebody else, consolidate, become bigger scale, more productive, and take that and go into the city and make a new life in the city. But these are all ways in which China can continue to grow. So that is the first reason I think we should not think that China has peaked. Secondly, I think in many areas, China is actually world-class. I talked about EVs, I talked about solar panels. Yes, there is over-capacity. Yes, there is state support, and that maybe has given the companies an extra advantage. But in fact, there is a lot of very advanced and very high-quality technology and science in the EVs, in the batteries, in the solar panels. And that is a big reason why the costs have come down, and why the Chinese products are so competitive. And so it shows the Chinese can do it. And furthermore, which is my last reason, I think the Chinese people are quite determined to do it. They have seen what they can do. They have seen what other countries can do, and in some areas, they know they need to catch up. And when the Chinese say Zhan Qi Lai , Fu Qi Lai and Qiang Qi Lai , I think that determination is there, and it will cause them to move forward and to see through any difficulties there may be. So I have reasons for confidence, and I am hopeful that the reasons for confidence will outweigh the signals of concern. Moderator: Coming back to Southeast Asia, a lot of the Chinese companies, now they are coming to this region - Juan Chu Lai . How would it impact us? Well, we will notice them. China is huge. Its impact on Southeast Asia is very large. When their companies come, it means that they provide good products, good services, fierce competition for our companies, for our industries, for our economies. In fact, we send our trade unionists and trade union leaders to go to China, to visit Shenzhen, to visit Yangshan, to visit your high-tech centres, to visit, to see the factory lines - Fosun - to understand the drive, the hunger, the transformation which is taking place and how advanced China is already. And they come back and they understand why we have to work hard, and work harder. I think the answer should be you have to work harder. It will be an impetus for us to upgrade, transform our companies, train our people, retrain our people, be competitive and meet the best in the world. And I think we can do that. Yesterday or today's Zaobao had a quote from Christine Lagarde, who had the same sentiment: exhorting the Europeans to do that in the face of external uncertainties and fierce competition, by which I am sure she meant competition from China. And I think it is easier for us to do it in Singapore and in Southeast Asia, than it is for Europe to do that. So now, given that there are many Chinese companies in Singapore and some people are labelling Singapore as a "Singapore-washing" place, is the government concerned about this? Well, we do not usually use labels like that. We have companies in Singapore from all over the world. We welcome reputable companies to come here and to make use of our business environment, our pro-business climate, our infrastructure, our networks, and to contribute to Singapore's prosperity and link us to all parts of the world. So if the Chinese come, they are good companies -- they create jobs, they pay well, they bring technology, they bring markets -- I say "come". The Americans come, I say the same; the British come, I say the same; the Japanese come, they are all here. But nobody believes that just because the company is in Singapore, that means it is a Singapore-owned company. We have got Dyson here. We have got General Electric here. We have got Citibank here. We have got all the major Japanese multinationals here. Everybody knows that they are Japanese, American, British companies. So when TikTok is in Singapore, everybody knows that Tiktok's parent is Bytedance and Tiktok's origins are in China. The CEO may be a Singaporean, but Singaporeans work for companies belonging to all kinds of shareholders. So on that basis, you are welcomed in Singapore. But of course, we would like to know where you come from and what your antecedents are. Because if it turns out that you are not the one we think you are, we also would like to make a few more inquiries. I would like to open it to the floor now. There are some questions here, let us do one - Xin Jia Po Yi Shan Yu Xi Na Ren Cai Zhu Cheng . Dang Qian Yue Lai Yue Duo De You Xiu Zhong Guo Qi Ye Jia He Ren Cai Xuan Ze Xin Jia Po Zuo Wei Chu Hai De Di Yi Zhan , Ke Fou Qing Li Zi Zheng Fen Xiang Xin Jia Po Zai Xi Na Chu Hai De Zhong Guo Qi Ye Jia He Ren Cai Fang Mian You Na Xie Kao Lu ? I think first of all, we are open to everybody, to people from around the world. If you are an entrepreneur, if you are a business person, if you can make a contribution to the Singapore economy, we welcome you to come to Singapore. But you have to abide by our laws. You have to follow our rules. You also have to understand how our society works, and fit in as a member of the Singaporean society. For example, we may not be as poorly off as we used to be, but we try very hard not to flaunt wealth, and success. If you have a big car, please do not drive it at high speed down Orchard Road in the middle of the night, for example. These are some of the considerations. So when you come to Singapore, we ask, can you fit in? Can you make a contribution? If you want to manage some of your assets out of Singapore, you are welcome. Even better, if you want to have your business operating in Singapore and have substantive business, which is linked to factories, headquarters, research centres elsewhere in the world - even better. On that basis, we have a good number of Chinese families and businesses here. But that is the way China has been talking about it, China says Zou Chu Qu This is part of Zou Chu Qu . Ni Men Zou Chu Qu ,Wo Men Zhe Bian Huan Ying Ni Jin Lai . Let us take some questions from the floor. Maybe we can just have two questions, because we are running out of time. Mei You De Hua ,Wo Jiu Zai Ji Xu Wen ... SM Lee: There's a lady there. Moderator: Could you please identify yourself before you ask the question and keep the question brief. Guan Zhong :Nin Hao ,Wo Men De Qi Ye Shi Zai Zhong Guo He Xin Jia Po Zhu Chi Ren :Nin Shuo Yi Xia Nin Jiao Shi Yao Ming Zi , Na Ge Ji Gou . Yu Hui Zhe :Wo Jiao Tang Ming ,Wo Men Zai Xin Jia Po Shi Nian Liao . Ran Hou Wo Men Shi Zai Shang Hai Huan You Xin Jia Po Du You Wo Men Zi Ji De Tou Zi He Ji Jin . Zai Guo Qu Shi Nian Zhong ,Wo Men Zhu Yao De Gong Zuo Shi Ba Xin Jia Po You Xiu De Qi Ye Jin Xing Tou Zi Liao Yi Hou ,Hui Dao Su Zhou Gong Ye Yuan Qu , Hui Dao Zhong Guo Zhe Ge Shi Chang Qu Cheng Chang . Ran Hou Zui Jin Ni ,Wo Men Ye Hui Cong Zhong Guo Ba Yi Xie Hao De F&amp;BDe Pin Pai He Qi Ye Chu Hai Xin Jia Po . Yin Wei Wo Men You Zhuan Ye De Tuan Dui ,Wo Men Ke Yi Bang Zhu Wo Men Zhong Guo De Qi Ye Luo Di Dao Xin Jia Po Shi Chang . Na Yao Wo Jin Tian De Wen Ti Shi ,Xin Jia Po Zuo Wei Yi Ge Ya Zhou Jin Rong Zhong Xin , Wo Men Kan Dao Hen Duo You Xiu De Qi Ye Du Yuan Yi Luo Di Xin Jia Po ,Bing Qie Fu She Dong Nan Ya . Zai Qian Yi Duan Shi Jian Wo Men Zhu Yi Dao Zan Men De Zheng Fu , Zheng Zai Ji Ji Di Tui Xing Zai Gu Shi Shang De Yi Ge Da Dan Gai Ge De Cuo Shi , Qi Shi Zhe Dui Yu Wo Men De Qi Ye Jia Lai Shuo Shi Fei Chang Fei Chang Le Yu Jian Dao De Yi Ge Shi Qing ,Hui Ti Sheng Gu Shi De Huo Li . Wo De Wen Ti Shi Zai Zhe Yi Kuai ,You Mei You Shi Yao Xin Xi Ke Yi Gei Wo Men Tou Lu Dao , Shuo Wei Lai Xin Jia Po De Gu Shi Hui You Shi Yao Xin De Cuo Shi ,Ran Hou You Mei You Ji Hui , Rang Wo Men Geng Duo De Qi Ye Ke Yi Zai Xin Jia Po Jin Xing Shang Shi ,Xie Xie . I am not familiar with the ins and outs of the review of the stock exchange. I know it is in progress. I know that we would like to inject more vibrance and dynamism in our stock exchange and we welcome reputable, good companies to come to Singapore to list in Singapore. We have had some from China, mostly smaller ones. The results have been mixed. Some good, some harder to assess, because it is not easy to have a stock listed overseas from where the company's business is - the overseas market and the investors there may not know exactly what is happening with the company's actual operations. So that has been a practical difficulty, but we would still like to have good companies come and list here, and it is being studied now. But there is no impediment to companies wanting to come to Singapore to list, if they fulfil the requirements. If you know of any, please put them in touch with the stock exchange, or if you know of any impediments to companies you think should come, but for some reason do not fit our rules, please let us know and we will look at our rules. Zhu Chi Ren : Zi Zheng ,Wo Jie Xia Lai Huan Yao Wen Nin Yi Ge Wen Ti Shi Bu Shi Ke Yi Qing Nin Yong Zhong Wen Lai Hui Da ? Li Zi Zheng : Ke Yi ,Shi Shi Yao Wen Ti ? Zhu Chi Ren : Zi Zheng Nin Tui Xia Lai Zhi Hou ,Xian Zai Hui Bi Jiao You Shi Jian ? Li Zi Zheng : Shao Wei Duo Yi Dian Shi Jian . Zhu Chi Ren : Wo Bu Zhi Dao Nin Shi Bu Shi Hui Wan Zhe Ge Xian Shang De You Xi ? Li Zi Zheng : Wo Mei Shi Yao Wan Xian Shang You Xi , Ke Shi Ting Shuo Zui Jin You Yi Ge Xin De You Xi , Bu Shi Xian Shang De ,Shi Dian Nao Li Mian De ,Hen Hong , Jiu Shi <<Hei Shen Hua :Wu Kong >> . Zhu Chi Ren : Wo De Wen Ti Qi Shi Bi Jiao Jian Dan , Jiu Shi Xin Jia Po De Xue Sheng Qi Shi Xue Zhong Wen ,Xue De Fei Chang De Chi Li . Nin Jue De Rang Ta Men Duo Wan Yi Xie Zhe Xie You Xi Shi Bu Shi You Dian Bang Zhu ? Nin Hui Gu Li Nin De Sun Nu Wan Zhe Yang De You Xi ? Li Zi Zheng : Zhe Shi Ge Hen Nan Hui Da De Wen Ti . Wo Kan Shi You Bang Zhu ,Dan Shi Bi Xu Gua Ke Er Zhi . Zhe Ge <<Hei Shen Hua >> Shi Yi Ge Hen Gao Dang Ci De Dian Nao You Xi . Wo Bu Hui Wan Ta . Wo Shang Wang Qu YouTubeKan Na Ge Shi Pin ,Dong Zuo Hen Kuai , Ta De Zhao Fa Yi Lai Yi Wang ,Mu Bu Xia Jie . Wo Kan Du Kan Bu Qing Chu Ta Zuo Shi Yao ,Ta Yi Jing Yi Bian Shu Liao . Suo Yi Ru Guo Yao Wo Zuo Tian Ming Ren ,Qu Can Jia Zhe Ge You Xi , Qu Gen Zhe Xie Yao Guai , Mo Gui Qu Dou De Hua ,Wo Kan Wo Mei Ban Fa Zheng Hui Zhe Liu Gen Qi . Wan Quan Mei You Xi Wang . Suo Yi Zui Hao Rang Dian Nao You Xi Da Ren Qu Zhuo ,Wo Zai Zhe Bian Liu Gen Qing Jing Jiu Hao Liao . Wo De Sun Nu Huan Tai Xiao ,Ta Huan Mei You Dao Zhe Ge Nian Ling . Dao Zhe Ge Nian Ling , Ta Ken Ding You Xing Qu . Bu Guo Zhe Ge Da Dou De You Xi Tong Chang Shi Nan Hai Zi Xi Huan Wan De . Zhi Yu Xue Hua Yu ,Wo Xiang You Ta De Zuo Yong , Yin Wei Wo Men Xi Wang Hai Zi Xue Hua Yu De Yong Yi Bu Zhi Shi Yu Yan , Er Shi Ye Xi Wang Ta Men Neng Gou Xi Shou Zhong Hua Wen Hua , Zhong Hua Chuan Tong , Liao Jie Zhe Ge Fei Chang Feng Fu De Wen Hua Nei Han . Suo Yi Xiang <<Xi You Ji >> Zhe Yang De Ming Shu ,Ru Guo Ni Chang Da Liao , Ni Bu Zhi Dao Shui Shi Sun Wu Kong ,Shi You Wen Ti De . Huo Zhe Ni Bu Zhi Dao Shui Shi Zhu Ge Liang ,<<San Guo Yan Yi >> ,Na Ye Shi You Wen Ti De . Ke Shi Ru Guo Ni Zhi Bei Cheng Yu ,Zheng Ge Cheng Yu Ci Dian , San Gu Mao Lu , Shi Yao Si Ma Zhao Zhi Xin , Hen Mei You Yi Si ,Hen Ku Zao Wu Wei De . Ni Bi Xu Dong De Zhe Ge Gu Shi , Na Xie Cheng Yu Cai Hui Hen Qing Chu De Zai Ni De Tou Nao Li Mian . Suo Yi Ru Guo Ni Ke Yi Wan Liao <<Hei Shen Hua >> Zhi Hou , You Xing Qu Qu Kan <<Xi You Ji >> De Dian Ying , Huo Zhe Shen Zhi Du Wu Cheng En De Shu ,Na Shi Zui Hao De . Wo Xi Wang Wo Men Ke Yi Tong Guo Zhe Xie Bi Jiao Ruan De Qu Dao , Gu Li Xue Sheng Bu Zhi Shi Xue Xi Hua Yu ,Tong Shi Xi Shou Yi Xie Zhong Hua Wen Hua De Nei Han . Dan Shi ,Jiu Bu Yao Wan Shang Yin Liao . Suo Yi Shuo ,Gua Ke Er Zhi ,Dao Shi Jian Jiu Bi Xu Ting Liao . Zhu Chi Ren : Zi Zheng Nin Xie Ren Zhi Hou ,Wo Chang Chang Guan Cha , Jue De Nin Hao Xiang Bi Jiao Qing Song ,Zhe Ge Shi Shi Shi Bu Shi Zhe Yang ? Nin Ke Yi Gen Wo Men Shuo Yi Xia , Xian Zai Nin Gen Nin Zai Dang Zong Li De Shi Hou Shi Yao Bu Tong ? Li Zi Zheng : Qing Song Dao Bu Jue De ,Bu Guo Fu Dan Jian Qing Liao Yi Dian ,Na Ge Shi Shi Shi . Yin Wei Wo Yi Jing Xie Ren Liao ,Shi Zi Zheng . Zi Zheng Gen Zong Li Hen Da De Bu Tong . Zong Li Di Yi Shi Jian Shi Qing Fa Sheng Liao ,Ni Bi Xu Zuo Fan Ying . Zui Hou Wen Ti Tao Lun Liao ,Yao Zuo Jue Ding Liao ,Ni Bi Xu Zuo Zui Hou De Jue Ding . Zi Zheng Bu Xu Yao Zuo Di Yi Shi Jian De Fan Ying ,Ye Bu Neng Gou Zuo Zui Hou De Jue Ding . Wo Zhi Neng Gou Ti Gong Yi Jian ,Gong Zong Li Can Kao , Gong Nei Ge Can Kao ,Can Jia Ta Men De Tao Lun , Bang Mang Da Jia Neng Gou Yi Ta Men De Fang Shi Chu Li Ta Men Suo Mian Dui De Wen Ti . Xian Zai De Wen Ti Wo Bi Jiao Shou Xi ,Yin Wei Hen Shao Wen Ti Shi Tu Ran Fa Sheng De . Zhe Xie Du You Xiang Dang Yi Duan Li Shi De . Guo Liao Yi Duan Shi Jian ,Yi Hou De Wen Ti ,Xin De Tiao Zhan , Xin De Ji Yu , Xin De Zheng Ce ,Zhe Xie Du Bi Xu Shi You Xin De Ling Dao Ceng Qu Ban De . Wo De Jiao Se Ying Gai Man Man Di Dan Xia Lai . Suo Yi Ying Gai Yue Lai Yue Luo Tui . Xian Zai Huan Mei You Dao Na Ge Jie Duan . Zhu Chi Ren : Wo Men Fei Chang Xi Wang Nin Ji Xu Bao Chi Zhe Yang De Zhuang Tai , Te Bie Shi Zai Zhe Ge Shi Jie Fen Fen Rao Rao De Shi Hou , Wo Men Ye Xi Wang Neng Gou Ji Xu Ting Nin Fei Chang Zhong Ken De Fen Xi He Kan Fa . Li Zi Zheng : Wo Dang Ran Hui Jin Li Er Wei . Zhu Chi Ren : Xie Xie ,Yin Wei Shi Jian Yi Jing Guo Liao ,Wo Qing Da Jia ...... Si Yi :Hui Ling ,Wo Men Huan You Duo Yi Dian Shi Jian , Ke Yi You Nin Fa Wen ,Huo Zhe Shi Qing Xian Chang Fa Wen . Dui ,Wo Men Jin Tian Shi Te Bie An Pai Geng Duo De Shi Jian . Zhu Chi Ren :Dan Shi Wo Men Zhe Ge Jie Zou Yi Jing Bei Da Duan Liao . Tai Xia You Yi Ge Wen Ti . Yu Hui Zhe : Zi Zheng Ni Hao ,Zhe Ge Wen Ti Gen Mei Guo Da Xuan You Guan . Wen Ti Shi Ru Guo Shuo Shi Ha Li Si Dang Xuan Huo Zhe Shi Te Lang Pu Dang Xuan , Ni Jue De Zai Chu Li Zhong Mei Xin San Bian Guan Xi Dang Zhong ,Na Yi Ge Geng Rong Yi Xie ? Li Zi Zheng : Wo Xiang Du Hen Kun Nan . Let me explain. I speak in English because I want to speak very carefully; the elections are in a few weeks' time. I think the tensions between China and the US are not personality-based. There are forces, there are deep attitudes which are formed on both sides. A social consensus on the American side that China is a challenger, a rival, even a threat to America in the long-term, potentially. And on the Chinese side, a very deep conviction that the Americans want to stop the Chinese from matching them; certainly would not allow the Chinese to overtake the US, and even overtly saying that the US would prefer the Chinese to be behind them. This is a very fundamental contradiction, which is not going to go away. And on the American side, there are not many issues where the Democrats and the Republicans agree on, but this is one. And that is a very serious matter. So whether it is Harris or whether it is Trump, that is not going to be changing. I think with Harris, it will progress in a more predictable way, with fewer sudden shocks and less risk of things going completely out of control. But that basic attitude is not going to change. With Trump, things can progress in many more sudden directions. For example, he has said that the day after he comes into office, he will put 60% tariffs on Chinese products, and 10% on everybody else. And he may possibly do that. It is within his power to do that. And if he does that, you are in uncharted territory. I think from the record of the previous Trump administration, he will have a team with him who will have certain ideas on how they want to do this. He will depend on the team, but he will also "ad-lib" and do things which you did not quite expect him to do. In particular, I think, what you can anticipate is that his attitude towards allies, towards America's friends, will be different from what the Democrat administration has done in these last four years. When they asked the Pope this question, whom he prefers, after he visited Singapore on his way home, the Pope said, &quot;It is a very difficult question. I do not know how to choose.&quot; If the Pope does not know, I do not know either. Audience: Thank you. Zhu Chi Ren : Ge Wei ,Rang Wo Men Yi Re Lie De Zhang Sheng Xie Xie Li Zi Zheng Jin Tian Gen Wo Men Zuo De Zhe Ge Lu Bian Dui Hua . Li Zi Zheng : Xie Xie !