Link, Zelda and Ganon aren't the only ones in the series. The enemy monsters that aim to also have their appearances constantly updated I wanna go through every single enemy this has the best. Do keep in mind though that I will a clear difference to be discussed. have appeared in several Zelda games, it has changed so little that discussing it is I will also not be including Fire, Ice, With that said, let's kick things off with an Zelda game, and yet, doesn't feel remotely as Armos. These armored statues provide us although most of them follow the same enough, their official artwork for Ocarina something that's fixed in Majora's Mask. However, it's appearance in Skyward Sword. Suddenly, Armos which is definitely a breath of fresh air in Vibrant is something Octoroks have always looking at their options. Octoroks have with the N64 games and Wind Waker going for while games like Link's Awakening, A Link Between cartoony. My favorite though is Four Swords and border on cute even. Not many Zelda enemies can nice change of pace for once, further strengthened We continue with one of the series's most iconic heavy re-designs with each entry they appeared holding a sword. In Twilight Princess, they while Skyward Sword gave them a bizarre Breath Of The Wild that Lizalfos finally got being much more streamlined with a chameleon-based of when they hear 'lizard' anymore, but And while we're on Breath of the Wild supremacy, best iterations can be found in this game or it's whose previous appearances were mostly to outdated to even properly compare. In Link less intimidating lion centaur and more goofy cat as I'm concerned, Lynels look much better in the done before. In a very, very similar position is sprites which are hard to even make out to begin from Phantom Hourglass this time around. And but it doesn't suit enemies that are supposed on the other hand... Now this is threatening. a glow-up on the Switch, and while I wouldn't I do think they look better than ever in Tears which have consistently had a fairly nondescript, introduction. Until Tears of the Kingdom that to make them look as horrifying as the concept larger and have a glowing... mouth...thing. Either Let's continue with a very similar the Leevers. They were originally supposed to Ocarina of Time's artwork, but from Twilight more. Neither of these designs really excite the incarnations from Minish Cap and Link's color scheme looks dope. And with so little Another enemy that has not underwent who are really just simple bats in every and they're a bit more goofy in but that's about as far as it goes. I'd say my very similar reasons as with the Octoroks: kinda generic designs most games throw at And let's tackle two more obviously animal-based Crow. While Breath of the Wild features these are, Crows appear in most games as enemies. Their meaning the decision mostly goes between the from Phantom Hourglass and Spirit Tracks, and the goes to good ol' purple beak over here, but it's simple animal enemy is the Rope, which is really lot more between games, as we have the gray one from Phantom Hourglass, a worm-looking one from from Minish Cap. My favorite is even older though, looks so dopey here, it's a very likable and definitely be a fan of that if it's well done and Time for some more iconic designs, so let's group next. We're gonna start with the Gibdo, which have in the N64 titles, they're full on mummies, Kingdom they feel more insectoid. Personally, so my winner is Ocarina of Time and Majora's We continue with their close affiliate the ReDead, first enemy where we can consider the design used to release at the moment of writing. That said... I a zombie to me, just a guy wearing a mask. Wind proportions and why do all these ReDeads wear games, with especially their designs from the 3DS we have the Stalfos, another often-seen enemy. they're all just skeletons in essence, the Minish Cap Stalfos are naked as the day they died, out. While I was nearly swayed by Wind Waker's version strikes a perfect balance and is the most Stalchildren, who are fortunately not as messed between the goofy design from the N64 games and I think the latter looks better, but it's so liking the goofy originals a lot more regardless, So how about we change that and give our One enemy who peaked here was the Darknut and promo material. After white incarnations most Twilight Princess brought us a really sick. This design has always been it's such an intimidating yet sleek look. game than anywhere else is the Freezard. In the it looks like a frozen head at best and like Princess version has a cool dragon-like look And speaking of monstrous, let's continue more famous of the two, the Hinox. In my throughout most of the series's life. In games they look more like wrestlers except with one going for but it doesn't work. No, easily the best where they look like a serious threat. Even if they at least now have a design befitting of what which has had similar design philosophies Swords Adventures go for more of a stone golem version is bright green and kinda reminds me and thus the best in this case, is Majora's there's something eerie about And speaking of eerie, we have a lot more designs Floor- and Wallmaster, which has always looked there are also incarnations which are less like Link Between Worlds, Four Swords Adventures eerie origins for something more mysterious, but I personally prefer the creepy aesthetic from the version from the Wind Waker, as it combines shadows. Really cool. As a bit of an arachnophobe the series has always been the Skulltula. The me creeps the most, with Twilight Princess the art style of Phantom Hourglass really doesn't cute in Echoes of Wisdom, as far as that's from the N64 games are easily the best, looking the skull motif is. That said, I wouldn't mind Small step from actual spiders to other creepy had a fairly consistent design all throughout the a simple blue look, while the 3D games switch scheme in the N64 games and the legs in Phantom they look like they'd break very easily. So the more realistic art style suits the Tektites. The same cannot be said for the in Twilight Princess than in the rest of the and sprite-based titles, and I'd say it really but this design looks a bit too awkward in my actual centipedes a lot more. Let's give Phantom Next up is the Bari, the jellyfish-like enemies, to very complicated in Twilight Princess and Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask the best enemy with tons of different designs is the a structure from plenty of games, like Breath of but also this abomination from the N64 titles, in the footsteps of the Armos from earlier, Skyward Sword, which have a nice color scheme Onto one of the series's most iconic enemies, didn't exist before the Wind Waker: Bokoblins. while later games would turn them more into these are too nice to look at, which is say the Breath of the Wild version is the best. they add a lot. Small step from Bokoblins to They started out as bulldogs, as can be seen in as seen in A Link Between Worlds and Link's variant is supposed to be, but I really don't Breath of the Wild also has a very strange design and has a long snout. My favorite though is like it has the most character and really stands We have some magic-adjacent enemies to go collectibles with a nothing design in Tears appearances varied a lot. The Nintendo 64 titles entity, while A Link Between Worlds is full-on which turns them into full-on realistic and it. It's a stark departure sure, but it's a really even if I do associate Poes more with something a also seen all ends of the spectrum. In Breath while Triforce Heroes goes for full-on cartoon realistic, but they carry a full-on scythe around as colorful birds for some reason. And Majora's Phantom Hourglass, I think, the scythe is which is actually a flying skull and while there are still a lot of design differences here. in colorful bubbles, while the N64 Games and A skull. Twilight Princess goes the literal looks kinda awkward if you ask me. I'd say Wind game's art style gives it a tad more character, Five more enemies to go, beginning with pretty consistent all throughout the series many enemies who can say they look Twilight Princess AND Skyward Sword, but it Echoes of Wisdom is going for a completely threatening, I don't really like it. My cause it's colors are a tad more vibrant here Onto the Dodongo, which went from bipedal lizards Princess. And yeah... this is an easy one: the gecko design is just really weird. We find which has a more humanoid werewolf-based like actual wolves in Twilight Princess. And the goofiest. My vote goes to Twilight Princess Second-to-last, we have the Peahat, floating plant but almost all are different interpretations of blend together for me. I'd say the most pleasant I like the color scheme of this one. The it's colors are drabby and it's design clunky. And finally, we have the Helmasaur, another enemy and A Link Between Worlds, they are defined by a like a Rupee. However, in Majora's Mask, they suits them. And then there's Twilight Princess: and it's not their head that's protected, but but in a good way, so I was tempted to but in the end, I think the green mask And that's it: the best design of every enemy What are your favorites? Let me know in the please consider liking this video and subscribing Zelda content coming up. For now, thanks