The little yellow pill, Cialis. As of this point, tens of millions back in 2014, to help their erections. But that's not what this It's about the top five that you have not heard about. Let's look at hidden benefit number one. Cialis helps reduce trips to the bathroom. Now, if you're losing sleep because maybe you're dealing with luts. What is luts? This stands for lower urinary tract symptoms. What are they?.. Well, getting up to go to the bathroom, slow stream splitting or spraying of the stream, spasm when peeing or having orgasm, and terminal dribble... You men who are listening... may remember that old bathroom joke, but the last three drops still go down your pants. Now, the leading cause of BPH. Benign prosthetic hypertrophy. In 2011, approved by the FDA for both ED and... BPh. Benign prosthetic hypertrophy, again, Doctor JV, the channel manager, might have known that and if he'd been spending more giving me grief. Now, let's get back to the script. Speaking of, there's a 50% chance you already have bph. If you're younger, you still may have it. Plenty of 40 year olds get it. I got it in my mid forties. And think about this. Forewarned is forearmed... It's better to start rather than waiting for two decades like I did and suffer some tissue damage... What does Sialis got A 2016 meta analysis showed that five milligrams reduced the symptoms of lutz, or benign prosthetic hypertrophy. And it did it with few side effects. We'll talk about side effects a but let's talk about the In order to do that, we're going to have to Hang in there. Won't last very long. Tadalafil, is what we call a pde five inhibitor. Phosphodiesterase five inhibitor... Now, what's that? Well, PDE five is an enzyme... What we do need to know, and we don't need to Inhibiting the PdE five enzyme Why is it so important? Nitric oxide? Well, it relaxes the blood vessels. It relaxes for our purposes here on this video in luts. It also relaxes the neck, It relaxes muscles in the prostate and seminal vesicles and urethra. So those spasms I was talking about, the inability to pee those improve... significantly with this medication. You pee easier, and because you're emptying you're not getting up every couple of hours in the night and So sialis also modulates the feeling less irritation... Let's talk about benefit number two. Sialis improves prostatitis... Well, now, what is prostatitis? Break it down. Prostate... itis inflammation of the prostate. Now, you need to be aware that most So just taking sialis alone is not going Another thing you need to know is that there's acute and chronic prostatitis. Acute prostatitis, can be a life threatening issue because it can cause sepsis, a very serious, even occasionally lethal So prostatitis of either type is different from BPH you've got the inflammation going on. BPH is just as it says, a benign swelling of the prostate. Sialis does reduce the symptoms in One of the problems with but there are other symptoms as well, I mentioned that I've had some challenges I've had acute prostatitis three times. Do not mess around with that. Sometimes I've known better, And yes, it took me a day or two longer than prostatitis to see a doctor. Now, I had problems with fainting Now, why would fainting happen? Well, you could say I'm a prosthetic wimp, but I don't think that's the issue. You know, as well as other internal organs are usually innervated by the vagus nerve. The vagus nerve slows you down, and overstimulated can lead to fainting. Let's go back and talk three. Sialis improves chronic Again, very much related to the first two. This is pain from the It usually comes with urine complication of prostatitis. But how does Sialis work here? Remember we mentioned SiaLis TaDalafil relaxes the bladder, neck. Evidence suggests five can help significantly. I'd love to hear from you if for any of these problems. The point here is men often deny their health problems. Cardiovascular disease sometimes gets our attention, but quite often, something like prostatitis may take some time, the treatment for it, is overshadowed by sex, by erectile dysfunction. So people begin to think about, it's for erectile dysfunction Or you may feel guilty asking or there's a bunch of reasons why men tend to ignore... men's health. Now, let's get beyond urinary Let's move to hidden benefit number four. Sialus decreases blood remember, which relaxes the blood vessels, Many men, age, sixties, are already on high medicines that will drop like... beta blockers, atenolol, The most commonly known flomax, again used for a very increase flow through the prostate. Be careful about taking sialis with either beta blockers or alpha blockers. And think about one other thing too. Nitrates. Remember nitroglycerin, medications that you take When you take nitrates, or alpha blockers or beta blockers, and you add... PDE five s, the little blue pill or you can get dangerous levels So if you're thinking about replacing one of your medications like a beta blocker or an alpha blocker or a diuretic, one of your prostatic flow medicines, remember that the... PDE five, the sialis, may help you with ED, but also help in terms of managing blood pressure. So you may have to go off of Before I get off of this let me just make one other statement: Be very careful if you're having potentially a heart attack, if you have... chest pain, it's not going away. You called the EMS. They come to pick you up. Be aware, quite often the paramedic will want or one of the nitrates to see if that decreases the heart That, if combined with cialis, can give you a dangerous So, be aware of these interactions In summary, with all this information don't do any of this without your doctor. See your doctor, talk with him or her and come up with a plan. Now, there is another type pulmonary hypertension. That's high blood pressure in It's very much associated It can cause heart failure. It can be caused by heart failure. And those of us who are in it's far more common than you think. Cialis. At higher doses, for example, with. With pulmonary hypertension, or high blood pressure of the Actually, pde five s, the yellow pill, viagra and sialis. The whole class of drugs were developed for this issue, pulmonary hypertension. Here's what happened. They were working on this new class failure and pulmonary hypertension. And then they saw that erections... Greatly improved erections. And guess what big pharma did.... . Well, what big pharma does. They looked for an opportunity and that's what they did. They made a whole lot of money But a whole lot of men and women have benefited from that. Sialis does help with even in women. Before we go to the last hidden benefit, let's talk about side One of the main side effects for sialis is low blood pressure. We've touched on that But there's another one called priapism... That's an almost permanent erection... And before you start, your mind goes where I and I back to the bathroom jokes... Think about it. This can be a real medical emergency. I remember having a case of a young man come in. He was 18 years old. He had sickle cell anemia. This was during my internship, we did not have the PDE five s at that point in time. And sickle cell is a well known cause, quote, natural cause for priapism... The sickle cell trait can help prevent or protect against... malaria. But when you have full sickle cell, you can get what's called sickling of the red blood cells. That sickling can cause those and block veins... in the penis or blocking the penis from draining. When an erection occurs, the treatment at that time was an ice water enema. And again, that's not pretty. That's not comfortable. There are even side associated with priapism. Before you get your eyes I'm never going to take this, remember this. That's not common. It's not common at all. In fact, the most common side effects are Now, let me focus on something else while if you paid attention, I've been quoting daily 20 milligrams for people and pulmonary... hypertension associated But five milligrams for men with luts or bph or chronic prostatitis. You might think, well, taking a daily dose gives you more risk for side effects. That's not really the It works with higher doses. So higher doses lead to more side effects. That's not surprising. But daily low dose does not... There's the story about the man that took Cialis and the sialas caused a heart attack. You hear about it in jokes, movies. And the guy took the blue or yellow died... in his last performance in bed. Now, in reality, multiple papers have shown It actually might help prevent that. Which leads us to hidden Can sialis really reduce Some studies in mice and adults with Ed show that sialis improves You remember the endothelium, the intima? It's that delicate lining of the artery wall. It's also called the glycocalyx. When people have prediabetes or diabetes, those high blood glucose levels, those high insulin very fragile glycocalyx, causing vascular inflammation. Now, is there the potential that sialis Well, not only the potential, but, yes, there is evidence in research indicating that. Let's go back and let's talk about If you're taking away from this a statement from me, I'm saying, don't worry about lifestyle, Just take Sialis. That's going to prevent You haven't been listening. And if you've seen any of our other videos, know exactly our position... There is no medication, the ever popular statins for this issue, PCSK nine is the new high Bempedoic acids, sequestrants, any of those things. None of those have the kind of impact on that lifestyle does. You cannot out prescribe or You cannot out supplement a lifestyle problem. You cannot out stent or out It's lifestyle. And when it comes to lifestyle, You cannot outrun a bad diet. You cannot outlift or outwork a bad diet. That's just the way it is. Let's get back to Sialis. The main takeaway is this. There's evidence that supports it might mostly for men with Ed, focused on people without it. Remember to talk to your doctor. The issues about and the side effects can be very serious and can be very complicated, especially when you take that boomers often end up taking, or engine medications... So especially if you have or are already on blood pressure meds. Again, speak to your doc. If you have a heart, speak to your doc. Now you know the signs, But more than anything, men's health problems because they're so focused. We're so focused on some of the sexual benefits associated So Sialis might not be the best Again, we've already talked about that. Lifestyle is the key. It's far more important. A couple of our more popular videos how I thought I was doing everything right And then I saw evidence of plaque that was just so frustrating and devastating... Again, I taught this at Johns Hopkins. I thought I knew what I was talking about, But I had some things to learn. If you'd like to see that video. It's right here.