And that's something we you define success and then connecting That's a double win, I would say. Definitely. Hi! In today's video, we're going to and give you a tips and tricks from in how to get into Miro and what are We're also going to the actual product and show you the good Welcome to the Life at Miro Hi, my name is Lena. Recruitment here at Hi, I'm Robert. I'm the core product experience And I'm here today portfolios and I guess every time is a CV and a Both are equally a picture of what the For me, what's that I can click and We talk a lot about accessibility of UX skills of yours as a product designer. What could be else the high level when Yeah, I think first we obviously look at Is it clear where you look at the CV, So make the journey as easy and quick that might come up to help us quickly I think the format of the Honestly, we don't have any framework website or a It doesn't really matter. But it needs And if you have five case studies, I potentially pick up the one When I need to go into like a Dropbox another link and through another right of me as a user Today, we want to just dive into some reviewers and succeeded in So those are our new team members. And we want to just show them as an that they have potentially to share All right. Well, let's start Daniel is our designer on the first flow that Before we even start looking at So what role are you applying for? So that's we go in So if you're applying for, in this specifically highlight that and also choose to share with us and present here. So the first things we see should I think it's also a fun and awesome it looks It's kind of like He actually highlights want to kind of know play You can change even the modes, And it's just something So that just shows us the level Yeah, and it obviously shows Absolutely. In this case, whiteboards. Well, let's go into the first case study. Let's kind of give a scroll. I definitely think like that we have three case Super easy to see. We can choose right of dive deeper and And if we were to obviously the first when he gives a Yeah, and generally, I here is density of the Be very mindful about that. I have seen so many I don't have the So really think about how you present it. And I think that point, which is the Now, we don't expect but there's so many tools There's the Wix, There's the Wix, It's really easy to take a basic want to get across And I also feel like more chances you This is my first time actually Am I able to understand that even That's a good question to ask. We at Miro love to see So they can actually identify the Daniel obviously has a huge advantage. He's even coded Absolutely excellent. Very much a huge Some of the screens, a little bit of the Or potentially if you've want to see what was the old Yeah, and in general, I example, the more condensed you We love videos, by the way, It's not a PDF, so So leverage these opportunities. Put something dynamic in there. Motion design, especially if you're applying for a role we definitely look for these Especially if you design We can definitely out, who had an I've never seen Super brave colors and things. And definitely she just showed Definitely, you know, very simple, yet The context is practices is there, So that's exactly kind I also really love that the payment Yet there is also a very easy to And as we click on that, and see the media on basically page where he gives just more context on that. That's very cool. So one thing I very mindful about you want to share an opportunity for to us as well. When I sometimes the same material presentation, you want to still keep in a little bit of that enough in at this like, hey, this is a but at the same go in depth during And I don't think of the amount of case to three high one where we can like this example we have here. That's a great approach to take, really. Shall we have a look at one of the Elvis has joined us as a senior growth product designer and We're happy to have him. He's an excellent, excellent designer. And definitely he stood out. I think those case It was a pitch deck, two Let's have a look and see So I think the first page So that's the content kind of page. And I'd love the bottom because it The progress. What do you think Do you feel like that's enough I think so. I think looking, as we go through but you can tell also think about the the storytelling side of things. So it's really easy for us to digest the information and for me to look at. So you can tell a to consider their customer in this case. And there are also lots of It looks fun. He puts a lot of character in it as well. I absolutely love that. Yeah. And these days, especially with for instance, and it's So it's actually a Business goals. We'll have to see that as well. And once again, I It tells a little bit He thinks about things, but he into the product that he delivers And again, the layering of I can quickly scan across. If I want to dive But even just already contacts presentation. All right. We start with Discover. How do you feel about those Yeah, I think obviously we know and what your design process is. It's good to see it reflected Yeah. And that's actually something I'm much more keen on seeing shows the double diamond But we want to see how you So yeah, and I think important here, And if there's one specific dimension customer represented, how much focus is there on the context, because that for us is a key And I also kind of we're saying that more important or something like how to design your ad kind of you give to them. This is something that we So it gives us some user observations. I definitely like so little text. Yes, and it gives you such a That's very, very strong. And then he's defining us. So he's leading us Yeah, and I think HotGR, for instance, We're not interested in what So in the case of I did some click on a product screen, and I Design strategy. Yeah, a really thing we definitely bar goes up, can you But can you also think strategically? And I think strategy, we're But strategy means It's obviously working closely with your product counterparts to we going in with the product overall. But strategy can also be So when you look at how well are you design problem with similar Yeah, and I see maybe I see design principles, and How are you able to actually take your thinking and turn it other designs can benefit from? That's actually a question we If you had to brief another designer on this, how would you same as what you did here? And I think that's also a All right, cool. So we're at the develop stage. And I also love that, do you see He kind of leads us through. And that's exactly This connection that you've actually okay, what are we looking at? Let's see what he shows here. Okay, excellent. Inconsistent messaging UX Honestly, everyone about examples of things, right? Sent to us, screens high file, but of what you've been afterwards, just more It doesn't have to be Yeah, I think as this example, to understand. I also love that he's speaking about also feedback from developers pitch to leaders get the feedback incorporate that in the new design. So that's very great for the Perhaps one more point to highlight That's something that I always look like how do you communicate? How do you convey your ideas? We look at that, of communication skills are equally essential. And I think here we see a good example of seeing that really invest in that and And here are our Hi-Fis as well. Cool, this is like a prototype also. So simple yet so impactful, right? We love to see prototypes. I mentioned videos Give us something to And I think that's just in your ambition. Obviously, there's only so much But sometimes it can And just this little It gives us a much better impression of what was actually And bringing it to life. And then he shows us what's been And now we are in the delivery space. I love photography, by the way. I think this is such an Even if it's just like this, a We're actually talking about people here. You're designing for people. And I think also when we talk more But equally for IC roles, take Obviously, you get their But it really adds OK, well, that's cool. We'll love to see some metrics, right? Absolutely. It's a balance, of course. Sometimes we see portfolios Every other page is a number of metrics. So it's obviously you need to But it's always great to close with that. It's also great to And that's something we also before you start designing something? And then connecting That's a double win, I would say. Definitely. Yeah. Well, so now we see some also We'd love to see where people kind I think there's also an overarching point because we've quite a few of these But something drew our attention at the start and caused us But in reality, of course, when 20 of these within the space of an in this level of detail. And it's first very important to And do we want to have a more So I think in this case also, we We might just skim especially those I think that's very important. I think it's a very good point. Because actually, the deck But just because And the quality of the it doesn't feel almost 40 kind of, you Very good point. Cool. Well, I guess we just end Love it once again. He gives us some I think this is something that we Next steps, This is great. Just like closing. That's exactly what So do we want to that we saw from Obviously, visual what gets our I think we saw a few good Writing skills. So how you How you layer the information to Now that we've I think it's great portfolio, right? Because there are And Robert has been so nice Because once Robert has And so now we can some of the major when they try to go into the new role. Because as you said, there's a But there is definitely a huge And probably reflecting back on myself doing these kind of Like every couple of years, you maybe Doesn't mean you I for a long time have gone through the practice with just Just to reflect on in time to say, But it's also a great look at your And that's for me portfolio case do that self-reflection. Yeah, and I can probably say, but you probably see it's from 2018. This is one of the And this for me, in my I still remember my I did that in Flash. And I got the job But I've gone back and forth First, I was doing a simple PDF. And it's also really what's the kind of what would they be looking for again? That empathizing with and tailoring your messaging Well, I think even looking like you say, portfolio samples So many people would say, well, not necessarily the work at And they would say, oh, But this is the because that's your Why not to put that piece of information, which does speak a or maybe not recent. So I think that's just Yeah, and I think also an there's actually a subtitle here. How do you think about yourself? And what would be that I probably look at would I still write the same thing? Maybe not. But it's good for yourself And that could actually be Maybe the focal point of it but who am I? And who is this leader, who we're talking to? That's what we like Yeah, and then there's that tries to summarize a point of view. And probably, I might not agree But at that point in time, it just felt like and what it means for, in this case, the company I was I think very important. And again, that's we look for Because I also feel like that define design Some of them are Some of them are very much hands-on. Some of them are very much hybrid. Some of them are just Some of them are there There are so many things about it. And so just by giving and what truly drives you in your role, it just makes it so much easier to see whether there is a and your aspirations as well. And I really love, I think, like, majority of the to be involved in and leadership. And you highlight in you have experience that we would expect. But also, it's great that you And I really love I see right away the worth it. And like, you know, We have to focus on And you bring lots of experience as well that you highlight in here. So that's definitely just in a few words, given a lot of context here too. Yeah, and I think something we look is in design leaders, that craft and the skill. And not all companies do that. I mean, there's a lot of companies that just hire pure design managers that don't actually in the product side. We obviously don't open Figma and Although it's great and convey your ideas So I think that craft still for us. For sure. Yeah, timelines are always great, right? That actually leadership that always work. Just give us a quick and make it visual. In this case, you I think I have an where you can actually click through, but this is a PDF. So in this case, it doesn't do much. But timelines are always very helpful. So what would be then for design leaders to And what do we see as the major mistakes that we can as well? I think first and Okay, so let's start with that. I think that's important. Keep it brief, keep This is something you'd share for And like we said, sometimes you So maybe you just that gives us that quick snapshot. I think things to avoid, So we don't necessarily want Like we said, it's great. If you had that design craft, But we don't. Obviously, if we see a you're probably not But if we see one that's a that you've been how you see yourself as a leader, how you build teams those are the kind of And also, I definitely love for some of the like, you know, the Because we don't necessarily has been conducted there and why, right? We could ask that, but that that I would need But what has happened in after the project has been finished, that's definitely That would be great to to bring to the table. And that brings us Don't forget to We'll be pushing more videos or what's happening in at Miro. And in general, about our culture and the company. And we would love to have you there.