We see a man, he is a rational man, well versed He has never had any mental illnesses, he is a content man. We could even say he's newspaper to his wife and his family on his tell them all they need to know, the date He goes to a field somewhere, he climbs to and encircled by scrap wood and kindling. it with a match, pauses to make sure the flames His body falls. His body burns. According to Dante's Inferno, on the gateway me the way into the suffering city, through the way that runs among the lost. Justice authority, the highest wisdom, and the primal were made, and I endure eternally. Abandon Eternal pain. The axiom "Life is suffering" it is altogether distinct from the statement a life that is based on suffering can be a change and improvement with brief periods entirely suffering is not a life at all. That is eternal it is not static. The idea of Hell is not one singular religion or ideology that be a seemingly medieval idea; something many in recent decades, and something the non-religious dustbin of history--but in actuality the concept modern world and our future. This video will provoking. I want to discuss Hell as a literal eternal suffering. Where every second is just Let's take damnation seriously. Next to the Bible, Dante's Inferno is the put to paper period. It is a titan of literature the 14th century on literature that doesn't I possibly say about it? Well, for one thing, A Katabasis, is a journey to the underworld, has existed, people have been curious about In Book 11 of the Odyssey, Odysseus meets in Hades. Hades is dark, completely dark, a place where after death there is simply of existence" there is no physical pain is the same for everyone; nothing but a ghostly However, exceptions include: Sisyphus, who until just as it reaches the top it rolls giant, for trying to rape the lover of Zeus, And Tantalus, for attempting to serve his hungry and thirsty. He stands below a tree reaches out for the fruit the branches are down for a drink, the waters recede. In book 6 of the Aeneid, written by the Roman and crosses the river Styx. On the banks of Aeneas sees the "untimely dead" including In Tartarus both divine beings and human sinners or by being forced to sit in one place forever. purgatory lasting up to a thousand years, they are reincarnated. Here, also, death is In The Apocalypse of Peter, the earliest known is a vision of what will happen after Christ The core of the text describes specific sins Blasphemers are hung by their tongues. Women adultery are hung by their hair and the men by their genitals. Those who worshiped idols by demons back to the top, just to be cast some punishments are kind of arbitrary. However, of its sinners. The Apocalypse of Paul focuses on the punishments of God but ignore it or go against it in some some standard like lakes of fire, and others lector who gets his lips and tongue cut with he had read. In a strange part of the Apocalypse, tormented sinners, along with Michael, the no longer be punished on the day of his resurrection, So..that's nice I guess. In the western world, there are some similarities into the underworld I've mentioned, but more elaborate, more specific and more fitting Some of the most elaborate and imaginative The Tibetan "Wheel of Life" is a map of The Wheel of Life consists of the six realms then one will experience rebirth and be born in accordance with one's karma. The six is experienced, from the God realm, a realm the realm of restless spirits such as hungry very small throats so they suffer constant Buddhism borrows a lot of ideas from Hinduism, of hell, who grips onto the Wheel of Life. In the Ojoyoshu, a medieval Pure Land Buddhist these hells are described. There are 8 Hot hells, all of them full of profound suffering. include things such as killing humans and monasteries on fire, eating offerings presented as holding a mistaken view. In the first hot others flesh with iron claws--when a "refreshing they are revived fully and the process continues billions of years but eventually, you will to a sort of purgatory. The time spent in years of a human life equals one day and night The life span there is 500 years. The life Heavenly Kings equals one day and night in 9,125,000 Earth years equals one day in this that means you will spend approximately 1 with each successive hell the time spent is the second of the hot hells, there are wardens as they mark their bodies with scorching iron using the resulting burn lines as guides. people being placed between two iron mountains fires so powerful a flame the size of a bean consist of being cooked and crushed in various molten copper poured down the throat. At the must fall for two thousand years before even blistering flames and having a hot iron ball typically aren't as detailed and other texts and people's skin bursting and their flesh people destined for hell are scolded by Yama that burns but your evil karma." beings traveling to Hell to help those rebirthed the Buddhist Hell yourself, you can, Hell These concrete statues are a real oddity of built in 1986, is filled with a gruesome display hell being torn apart, chopped up, stabbed, also partially non-human beings tortured alongside statue in Thailand, is another Hell Garden, tongues pulled out, their heads chopped off morbid amusement parks in the world. You could Dante's Inferno. When one is in hell serving out their eternal be distracted by robo-calls. It is genuinely and how easily it can be found and abused. and within minutes I was able to find their on a name, a state and a city. This can be times where I was awaiting an important call wasting my time and making my life much harder like Incogni, the sponsor of today's video, is a service that you give permission to send from data brokers that have your data and sends out take down requests and fights any Through this service you can see what kind removed them. Here you can see 75 have my completed. I used to think that rampant spam calls a day was just a part of daily life, reduce these interruptions with just one service blows my mind. The first 100 people to use off of Incogni. Thank you to Incogni for sponsoring Dante's Inferno, the story of Dante Alighieri Virgil, is the first and most celebrated of Comedy. Even after more than 700 years since to the powers of the human imagination. The Greed and Waste, Wrath, Heresy, Violence, of interesting and mortifying punishments, having branches broken off and fruit eaten being immersed in boiling blood at various as they walk, and being submerged up to their creatures dot the landscape and each sinner their sin. Sandro Botticelli illustrates the 9 levels of hell in this stepped the Earth. According to National Geographic: in the Inferno to calculate Hell to be over reach all the way into the inner core of the painting, this world eschews perfection, why Dante wrote The Divine Comedy during his exile turmoil. many people and ideas that would have been of the time is in hell, many of Dante's figures like Cleopatra and Brutus are in hell. timeless elements to it and the illustrations Comedy take it to the next level of the sublime. of the narrative are fittingly dramatic; the works belie the intense horrors of Dante's other-worldly nature of it, you have to get This translation of Dante's Inferno is illustrated vein as the harrowing works of Stephen Gammell fame. His depictions of some of the scenes and difficult to comprehend, sometimes to distressing effect. Hell is a collection of whose only job is to produce terror and pain. from looking at probably my favorite depiction The Last Judgment this enormous skeleton spreads sinners and demonic creatures. But it wasn't a pseudo-etching on a church window that I not colored and the lines obscured much of could clearly make out was this skeleton smiling mass of human flesh and strange shapes. Hell There is a theory that Over the Garden Wall the greatest cartoons of all time, is actually already some good videos about this theory other layer of mythos and timelessness this one of the most timeless worlds out there. a creature constantly obscured in shadow, the end. Its true form seems to be literally a demon or even the devil himself would look the show, it is so rich and atmospheric. If is actually Hell...then it's the only Hell If Over the Garden Wall brings Dante into illustrations of Gustave Dore that bring Inferno enters the most evil looking forest you could over the land, to the right is a dark portal Dante is a huddled being, dwarfed by God's of people are blown about in a great serpentine for this journey, the landscape is enormous. of burning sand which rains flakes of fire. for if they stop, they have to lie down in to brush off the flaming flakes. In the ninth stretches out into the darkness. Satan is chews on Judas and other famous betrayers This illustration from Dante's Paradiso, of the storm surrounded by countless angels inspired countless works and artists, from prevalence of toned figures can be out of and majesty of the compositions, and the astounding more than make up for it. These illustrations they first came out and they will be the go-to engravings are monumental, beyond mortality, could convince me that Heaven and Hell are Welcome...to Hell. It's been over 100 degrees priest says that's pretty hot, even for hotter. C.S. Lewis wrote a lot about Heaven and especially provider of strong arguments for why a literal imaginative interpretations of the afterlife which is written as a response to William it's his depiction of Hell which interests dreary town, full of bitter and quarrelsome farther and farther away in an indefinitely are empty and abandoned. The distances between tells about how two people traveled for 15,000 for himself. When they found him, they watched back and forth, doing nothing but muttering his misfortunes. and takes the narrator and some others to countryside, and for the rest of the book from hell to repent and join them. The conversations are there because they choose it, because ideas and desires, because they deceive themselves and goodness of God. The writer George MacDonald He reveals that the enormity of Hell can be ground. The genius of the book is how it turns time and space. You can meet famous people you can, as a spirit from Hell, walk on the can go from Hell to Heaven sometimes, but to the greatness of Heaven. this depiction of the afterlife is a fantasy. that purports to be what really awaits us what some have claimed to have had. This is Bill Wiese, a protestant Christian night in 1998. He wrote the book 23 Minutes Times Bestseller List for paperback nonfiction shows, given countless speeches, and his recorded began at 3:00 AM when he felt like he was cell in Hell. The cell was "approximately fifteen-foot depth." In the cell with him one the manifestation of "Evil" and the entered the cell, one of them picked him up his flesh to ribbons. He notes that no blood weak he couldn't move. He describes a terrible of the damned and saw a tremendous pit of God blocked much of the pain that was supposed would know that pain in Hell was real. Then hideous creatures, until suddenly a bright Jesus. Jesus told Wiese that he showed him its real, literal existence. Jesus then ascended him the Earth from space, finally he led him As soon as the Lord left, the horrors of hell The clock was 3:23 AM. So that's the story. You may not be surprised to make the claim that Bill Wiese is outright and that he doesn't believe what he's rare. I do think he may have experienced some "physical weakness" he describes sounds reason I doubt his story is because Bill Wiese he produced with this trip to Hell and he that he went to Hell. It's just his word. Even the small bits of "evidence" he does Wiese says that Hell is located in the center in the lower part of the earth, and I sensed e n hundred miles deep." hollow. 3,700 miles is within the inner core, Scientific knowledge tells us that a planet in on itself due to gravity. But hey we're with the supernatural...and I could accept cites scientific knowledge to support his "Some scientists have reported that the is approximately twelve thousand degrees. So what's going on here? You can't use Hell when they line up and then ignore scientific If Dante's Inferno is a testament to the in hell is a demonstration of the limits of is his brain took common tropes about hell and found verses that lined up with his visions and informed those visions. He found things that didn't because that's a common thing is doubtful, he's committed to the bit, at least his story is little more respectable Howard Storm, a former atheist, had a near lured by demons to hell, until suddenly a so in order to stop them he recited fragments God Bless America. also went to Heaven and it was great. That's Mike O'Brien says that while he was dead until he yelled "Jesus" and they flew Bryan Melvin temporarily died from cholera Pastor Gerald A Johnson says he went to hell What strikes me is each testimony is so vague describing a summer camp they went to. It's...lame. scriptures and prophets that he has to regularly planet to visit Heaven and Hell just to send that yep, the afterlife is real. Now I'm go to hell --actually that's exactly what con artists brazenly spout pure drivel about listen to them. Why do people do this? Attention moment, maybe to start a career, maybe even dear and to be listened to. You don't have and Jesus and Hell could all exist and you and many Christians do. When I was in elementary school our local Every hundred years a small bird would come its beak, and once this mountain was worn of eternity would pass. That would be the Except there's a problem here. It wouldn't it is forever, it would feel like walking I ever had a life that ended I would forget time used to mean anything. This silly story Let's say there was a bingo cage and on Hell. Let's say there were 9 balls that If you choose to spin the cage and pick out go after death. If you don't choose to play Most will intuitively see this as a bad deal: even if there is still a nine in ten chance if we made the odds better? 999,999 balls "Hell." I would argue this is still a hell is very small if you get a Hell ball ultimate fail state. Heaven is great, but hell. In fact, even if you wrote "Heaven" one which you wrote "Hell" this would small chance you somehow pick out the "Hell" There is literally nothing worse than eternal exist because it is a guaranteed infinite but it is not 100% guaranteed. You would have worse than an experience of pure torture forever. ceasing to exist" to "one lifetime of SHOULDN'T pick a ball. Because a lifetime is still infinitely better than the faintest This little thought experiment is a re-framing another four panel matrix, isn't that exciting? that it's better to believe in God than is real and you die not believing in him you believe in God and he isn't real, when you it one step further. It argues a lifetime of going to Hell. Every waking moment on Earth even if it makes your life on Earth a living our chances of ending up in Hell are far worse kinds of odds, with these kinds of consequences sure they worship the one true God and live Unfortunately, people have other religions, agree with religion, and some people don't of Hell people are limited beings and many hell and instead want to live the life that's being expect finite creatures capable only point of view? If God sent Hitler to hell for an eye" then he would have to suffer on millions of lives. If God believed in "two maybe twice or three times as much as the Why? Wouldn't he get the point after suffering unfair it is the most unfair punishment that In the movie Se7ven a serial killer tortures sins, arguably the most brutal of the killings bed and tortured by the killer with drugs, exactly one year. The killer explicitly has you might be convinced he is indeed some sort his plans go his way, he's always one step created a Hell of his own design...none of do commit sins, and they are punished in ways killer thinks he's an agent of God. There have been many different views of the Jesus himself descended into hell to preach and resurrection, in what is known as the the Last Judgment sinners souls are simply God in Heaven, this line of thought is called that all souls will be saved in the end. Hell to go to hell, how can he be called a loving to go to hell and if God's will is more and anything that resists him then eventually take many ages, maybe even several lifetimes be empty...even Satan himself will leave. thought everyone deserved to go to hell, but Hell is not mentioned in the Old Testament. punishment was even taught by Jesus. That's matter for the purposes of this video. 6/10 belief we're talking about. The arguments for why an eternal Hell is justified as well, another diatribe from me isn't I tell you what I think, if you haven't have to be an atheist to think an eternal way, it's such a laughably dumb, abusive lot in this video but Buddhist Hells are also which makes them infinitely more just than excessive and barbaric. And yet, I'm terrified and it's just something that the universe if the chance of hell actually existing as one wrong atom in the universe, if it exists, So why is Hell even a thing? Well besides for the human mind to come up with. When you history, throughout the news, and throughout a place full of punishment for those who create It's an easy solution to the problem of and bad things seem happen to the righteous, Everyone thinks they're the hero fighting righteous then they are and if the wicked they will be punished in the next life. I Human culture is obsessed with punishment, you examples, but I don't really need to--there's insignificant number of people online were people dying in one of the worst ways imaginable, full of 750 immigrants sunk and most drowned Four of the five people who died in the OceanGate was just a 19-year-old son. There's this can only reach a certain level of wealth by of being at or beyond this level of wealth that wealth could be used to end suffering And let's say that was true and it applied that mean they deserved such a cruel and unusual in complete darkness at the bottom of the done immoral acts? Tell me do you think people sins? imploded instantaneously. It really seems some segment of the population has this knee-jerk there are some rare minds out there that delight they've done wrong or not is terrifying. delight in the suffering of others who have phenomenon where most people hold some vague of criminals rather than supporting the prison punishment...yet once you start giving specific crimes, like the murder of a child, people them in solitary confinement, even in some A part of me believes that a complete removal criminals, may not ever have popular support will always crave a certain level of brutality be in a state's best interest to maintain if it was just It's one thing for an artificial intelligence humanity is a worthy goal, it's quite another torturing them is a worthy past time. In "I Mastercomputers, are built by world governments computers becomes self aware and assimilates completely wipes out humanity except for five in its vast underground complex in revenge consist of altering their minds and bodies, each persons "sins". AM is strangely human, thing and it's always coming up with amusing While the tortured group treks through the mind, through a stainless steel pillar, a Ellison read it on YouTube if you can, I can't Hate, in the popular conception, is a fundamentally and the source of so much suffering in the conquers all" and "love is more powerful that love is an emotion separate from more forces of evil. I...disagree. Hate is the and people can do evil acts in the name of you. It's wrong to love those who abuse wrath but God's love that lights up the In Dante's Inferno Dante frequently expresses in Hell, including his teacher Brunetto Latini, sands. Dante is cordial with Latini, but nonetheless doesn't do this out of hatred, maybe hatred respects his teacher, Dante seems to view he sinned against God. As if he were saying it has to be." Unit 731 is the name of the infamous Japanese most gruesome human experimentation in all on Earth, I haven't found any other place of freezing prisoner's arms, deliberately and performing vivisections. But the one account one story where they tied prisoners to stakes detonated the bomb to study the shrapnel wounds. That was probably a motivation for a lot of It had a purpose to it beyond emotion. It then they did it. The horror videogame SOMA plays extensively bundle of many sci-fi tropes; a comet destroying 13,000 feet below the surface, robot drones, premise that sets SOMA apart: human consciousness'es programs...you can edit, restart, and yes for a brain scan, the idea being that this of treatments until they find one that works Simon, from our perspective, is teleported ocean base called Pathos-II, 90 years in the brain scan was one of the first in the beginning in the future. He finds human minds in robots Virgil for Pathos-II, is also a human mind fact, the player is a human mind in a robot and feelings, are a legacy brain scan awoken original human Simon died. Living beings, bodies of some human survivors are kept alive has spread far enough that it can keep organic but it doesn't do this out of hatred like preserve humanity, after a comet killed all of bleak encounters. There's a section in a security cipher, from someone, Brandon Wan. scan is still around...so you have to start to try and coax the information out of his so I had to restart the simulation a lot of and use the right tactics, such as getting of Brandon to put him at ease. I will readily was waking up, stressing out, and killing over and over again; just to get some information. simulation going for, how long I could keep myself. A series of various simulations torturing so I can get what I want faster. Making Hell, didn't mean to, I could keep a simulation In the game two, even three more Simons come the first scans ever an even greater number scans become the main objective of the game: digital world on which scans of a few dozen it into space where those simulations can than in the slowly collapsing underwater base. what the fourth version of Simon sees on the in darkness at the bottom of the ocean. As You could easily interpret this as a hopeful they can live on in comfort, indefinitely. When I see that satellite fly off into the thousands of years of something, millions what makes you so sure that level of deep if it was comfortable, even if it was pleasurable...do really equipped to deal with something that are just as doomed as the people in the ocean. What makes hell, hell, is time. What makes other killings in Se7en are horrific but they one year of torture is hard to imagine. Maybe with no struggle, no challenge, and no end, experienced, at some point, that the anticipation event itself. Maybe Hell is just your mind worst pain you'll ever experience is just physical torture every occurs. As if you're to arrive in Avici, but you never land. Maybe far far past your natural lifespan. Stephen King's Short Story "The Jaunt" the story of a new technology that revolutionized portals people and cargo can be transported even in space, but they have to do it while few "Jaunts", first some wood splinters then a pencil is tested, then some keys. Eventually a mouse goes through it becomes oddly stiff, dies. In order to teleport living creatures they have to be put to sleep. If you're experiments, you'll come out...insane. It's mentally been in limbo, with nothing to see millions, maybe billions of years, while physically Jaunt comes out and says "It's an eternity a young boy, comes out screaming: "Longer and gouges out his own eyes. If a technology that can keep someone alive or mental, is invented--my wager is there any enemies at all, if you ever think that is more than 0. You would either have to immediately to know if that technology would never be stand above a bonfire, shoot yourself in the the flames below. Allow yourself to be destroyed as possible for someone to bring you back. take the risk by staying alive? That would In the face of the apocalypse, a few crew as soon as they can after they've been scanned idea (Buddha statue footage) that their minds doesn't actually put THEM onto the ARK, Heaven, but they did avoid Hell. a human really put another human through torture a reason as simple as getting some information? happen? I think about some, granted few, but of any other religion that has a hell who in everlasting torment, I think about OceanGate, Of course they could. omnipresent, omnipotent being. Hell is the minds. Hell is other people. Hell is an experiment. I believe that as long as people find eternal and that the desire for violence and torture heart, and if we let our technology take control potential for a man-made hell is forever a I think I've done it I might have come up it's an unlikely future. It appears that will end. And even if it didn't a lot of in a specific order so that this tech is invented. opened the gates of hell yet...which means something you'll want to deal with far in with now before it's too late. If we can't put in place to avoid the misuse of powerful never even be thought of being invented, we Heyo! I'd like to give a big thank you to in this video, and remember that the first below can get 60% off of Incogni. Thank you some fanart I've gotten recently that I