- I was raised in the mainstream culture where if you feel bad, you take something to Around that time that I first I looked at the treatments that we have. I did the first study on Prozac for PTSD, the first study for Zoloft for PTSD, and a number of other conventional drugs. What we found is they Our conventional way of thinking I thought, &quot;Okay, if it doesn't work, let's see what else could work.&quot; My name is Bessel van der Kolk. I am a physician, I'm a psychiatrist. I have been studying trauma The nature of trauma is that your survival brain makes the is this dangerous or is this safe? So it's very important to really be aware that these reactions And so, the big challenge is how do we help people to live in bodies that feel fundamentally safe? What was very clear is that very good psychotherapy Not to fix people, but oh my God, that was terrible And I need to take care of inside of myself. This issue of self-compassion and really knowing that your is a terribly important part of beginning to recover from trauma. Can I talk about something Because MDMA is so sexy. Okay. For me, the opening to a new world came when some people in my clinic started to do something Eye movement desensitization You ask people to call up the memory of what you saw back then, what you felt back then. And then what you do is that you ask people as you move your fingers And my first reaction was like, &quot;Man, stop this crazy nonsense, And then I got to see some of the results, I go like, &quot;Wow, this is interesting.&quot; Wiggling your fingers as they think about the trauma This crazy eye movement desensitization actually change the circuitry of the brain to interpret your current This had amazing effects on people being able to They say, &quot;Yes, that's And it happened a long time ago. It's not happening right now.&quot; That was the first time that I saw a non-conventional technique have a very profound effect. And then we studied yoga. Maybe if you do yoga, you can open up your You learn how to breathe calmly, you learn to pay attention to yourself, you get to see how different movements and different postures affect you. And so you form a deep relationship with your internal sensory system. Yoga, at the end, was a more effective treatment for PTSD than any of the drugs we had studied. But I've yet to see a being transformed to a yoga studio. The next thing that we studied And it turns out that playing helps you to feel that your depending on how you organize When my voice gets too gravelly, let me know and I'll drink some water. - It's feeling a little - Okay. (upbeat music) It's good? All right. So, I live in the Berkshires and we have a great program here, called &quot;Shakespeare in the Courts&quot; where if you're a juvenile you have a 50% chance that to become a Shakespearian actor. That's civilization, huh? The Shakespeare program because it helps people and to feel what it what it feels like to be a warrior. And you get to really have a in different possibilities. The next piece that I studied is that you can actually so that when you make brainwaves that help you to be calm and focused, you get a little reward. We did very well with neurofeedback. So we can shape your brain to actually have a different configuration to be open to new experiences. And then, about 15 years ago, two guys came to talk to me and they said, &quot;Bessel, you know a lot about trauma. But do you think about his idea? We are thinking about psychedelics. What do you think about And I go like, &quot;Wow! You're speaking for my heart,&quot; because of course, I'm and we dabbled in LSD and Wouldn't it be great if he could do psychedelic substances to see if these substances To see that the reality that they live in is just a small part But, I said, &quot;Don't do it. It will destroy your career. These drugs are illegal.&quot; And they said, &quot;Thank you We'll try it anyway.&quot; They got permission to do a study of MDMA, also known as ecstasy And it worked out pretty well. Able to collect a large amount of money to do a very large and Lots of different sites around the US, one in Israel, when in Canada. So let me tell you how to study is set up. After all the preparation, you have a whole day of taking ecstasy while you lie on a bed with two therapists in What we see in the people People are able to go to places they have never felt safe to go. This is not a picnic. They see the horrible things But MDMA allows people to see All these measures we have about self-perception and And rather than blaming yes, this what happened Part of what has kept me is how can we find a treatment that allows the basic sense of defectiveness and And now it looks like that causes a very Probably more than just about But what's important here is Different people need What worked for my last patient very well may not work for you. Everything is an experiment in life. And healing from trauma is an experiment. (serene music)