This is the door to my brand new Lego room, released. You see I've just moved house, important like that, shelves with the greatest creations ever committed starting with... Number 10 - Diagon Alley basically consisting of four individual modular And whilst a lot of the entries on this list or mono colour, every single section is so unique and bursting Now Lego fans have various criteria by which the Minifigures it comes with, its potential resale value, does it come with a Lego frog? Let me explain. A weirdly high number of Lego sets seem to whether on lilipads, as gargoyles on buildings, so does Diagon Alley's 5,544 pieces include Nope, Potter sets feature chocolate frogs, Either way I'm gonna fix that, and add my That reminds me, see if you can find the bronze, this video, so if you enjoy watching, Number 9 - Ninjago City Gardens. You might recognise this set from the 100 so I'm not gonna talk about it in too much it didn't survive the move. I will just say that like Diagon Alley, it's making these first two real outliers on this After sifting through the wreckage, But then I remembered I destroyed his home, so I ended up rebuilding the whole thing. There's probably more than a few mistakes, warm your heart? Number 8 - The Santiago Bernabeu Stadium. This is the home of football club Real Madrid. With 5,876 pieces, building the pitch and 4 almost identical It isn't really a set I would have built but I did visit the stadium when I was a kid, something I was vaguely familiar with. All in all, I enjoyed it more than expected, Lego frog? Of course not, that frog would be ginormous but let's secretly add a grey one to one There we go, Number 7 - The Taj Mahal. Now that's what you call a montage-Mahal. Like the Bernabeu, modular sections, It makes for a repetitive build, captures the majesty of the original. I really love these almost pixelated domes and the use of different Lego elements to tiled floor is incredibly creative. Buttttt does it come with a Lego frog? Seriously, I should just make a jingle at [Lego Frog Theme] No, so let's hide one here. I hope he likes his new pad. Number 6 - Hogwarts Castle. This one might be favourite of the entire It's just so detailed, Stone, the Great Hall, the Defence Against the Dark Arts classroom, and Dumbledore's office, Overall this 6,020 piece offering is nothing my only criticism being that it's in micro-figure If we put a regular Harry Potter Minifigure he's quite enormous, and well, And besides, cupboards full of Harry Potter Lego come in, So... [Lego Frog Theme] but I'm gonna put one next to Hagrid's I feel like he's toad-ally the kind of person as a pet. Number 5 - The AT-AT. As well as being the fifth biggest, of all time. And inside, Look at that! It admittedly feels kinda wasted on me since but it was really fun to build, pieces. It is enormous though, but I know what you want to know... [Lego Frog Theme] the song, But no, it does not, even more, You could say I've Kermit-ted a crime against and humour. Number 4 - The Millennium Falcon. This is another Star Wars sets, video, the move. Yup, majestic spaceship, it into a tombstone. It was truly enormous while it lasted though. Even the several hundred page instructions It didn't come with a Lego frog, Star Warts. No, no? Ok! Number 3 - The Colosseum. The box alone is enormous, inside which there are 76 individual bags, I was a little overwhelmed. The first few bags however made it feel like But then came the Barrage of Beige. Oh that's not all. That's still not all. Yeah that's all of it. And this is where things got really repetitive. Nonetheless it was a lot of fun seeing it and again, this is somewhere I've been for which added that extra element of enjoyment. After a whole day of beige, the Colosseum was finally complete. And since there's no Lego frog, studs on the front, all toads lead to Rome. Now I'm actually gonna do Number 1 next because Number 1 is sort of underwhelming. Number 1 - The World Map. With 11,695 pieces, released, really count. Regardless I absolutely love these art sets, meditative to build, It comes with these pins to mark the places but instead I'm gonna mark the places from the Bernabeu Stadium, and the Colosseum. Ok, that's all very well, but does it come No. Seriously, almost 12,000 pieces and not one a truly ribbit-ing decision on Lego's part, Can you spot him? Once you've finished the set, pieces, but I've got another idea... Number 2 - The Titanic. [shaker] Nine thou-sand and nine-ty pie-ces, I have built the Le-go Ti-tan-ic! Yeah, I'm in a weird place right now. Anyway, I spent so long making this video something called a Razor Crest whatever one There's also rumoured to be a new set overtaking year, probably pointless. But there is one last unanswered question... [Lego Frog Theme]