- [Narrator] These are oysters. - At first, it kinda looks like quinoa. - [Narrator] More than 40 are produced in the US each year, and that supply has struggled It takes up to three years for oysters to grow and be ready to eat, and customers tend to - It's gonna be dirty, it's gonna be hard, it's gonna be physical, and - [Narrator] John Vigliotta is the owner of Ward Oyster Company in Virginia. It's one of the largest on the East Coast spanning more than 850 and it raises around 4 It sells these oysters to distributors for about 0.40 cents each. As people continue eating more seafood, the global oyster market is growing, but maintaining an operation - Hmm. - You know it's gotta be - [Narrator] And it costs this farm around $1.9 million per year. It's a complicated web of processes with a lot that can go wrong. - This building is our here at Ward Oyster Company. Starting in November, we to get ready for spawns Here we have some of our breeding They're kind of bred for low salinity. - [Narrator] Lots of the come from VIMS, the Virginia They're bred for high survival, - That comes with a price. They charge 15% of whatever so we will pay probably 100, maybe over $100,000 just in royalty fees. - [Narrator] Another big is electricity and propane, which it needs to keep the oysters alive and spawning on schedule. That adds up to about - We usually start cold and then slowly raise the while increasing the food It usually takes between 6 and 10 weeks to get the oysters right, - [Narrator] Once the breeding staff shuck them, and identify whether - [Jared] All right. We have a girl. - [Narrator] From a few Ward Oyster Co. ends up with Around 200 to 250 million will set, and about 50% of those will Some will be sold to other oyster farms that don't have hatchery facilities while the rest will continue - It couldn't be any more sustainable. It's oysters well spent. - [Narrator] The entire and involves the work of As the oysters grow, they to these 10,000 gallon tanks. To feed up to 100 million they need a lot of algae. - We're usually feeding between 1,500 and 2,500 gallons of algae each day. There's enough food in this room to maybe accommodate the When it starts to look like - [Narrator] After for about a month, the oysters where they're fed directly from the river. - There's a lot of maintenance that goes into maintaining but really everything here. These animals are really They're eating voraciously. You can see how opaque the water is. My hand disappears right there. And then right here in this Quarter inch animal like in this tank, you know, it's been out of the hatchery for probably a month, six weeks, is well on its way to These are some animals that at the beginning of this week, and it looks to me like to move on up and go out onto the farm. (machinery clanking) - So let's get the ropes, and let's ride. We work six days a week, most of us here. I usually have three to four people. We're all trained to do this job, and that's what we do every day. We are raising these oysters After a good six or seven months, that's what we're working with. - Oysters grow, and The last five years our labor expense has not been below $1 million. The question each year is how much over a million - Hey, they're going back overboard. Right now we have almost 4,000 cages, and we're hoping to get even more soon. - [Narrator] These cages so putting 4,000 cages in the (cages splashing) After months of being underwater, many cages will need repairs. - [John] Our repair maybe 150,000 per year. - [Narrator] That's just for the cages. Other repairs around the - Beautiful. - Every now and then you might but we come prepared if We have other parts that get us back in. - [Narrator] The oyster particularly due to climate change. Rising sea levels are and making water more acidic. Both these things have a - An oyster has a calcium shell, and as the water becomes more acidic, you'll see that the calcium can be hampered. We've been very fortunate in our location to do well with what we've been producing. - [Narrator] Ward has from floods to fire, product, and employees when they're on the water. - It's bad weather, we don't come out. We try to keep enough so we won't have to go We don't want to do that. - [Narrator] Ward Oyster that are prone to flooding, which means flood insurance can - This dock was one of the three that survived Hurricane Isabel. We had about six foot of water in here. We had to get a brand new ice machine. It's up in the air. It cost us about $15,000. We spend probably somewhere around $70,000 a year in insurance. - [Narrator] Ward spends on new cages, which is about a third of After the oysters come out of the cages, they're graded for size The smallest ones stay in half inch cages. Larger ones go in one inch cages. And once they're about they're finally big enough grocery stores, and other buyers. It usually takes about two years for oysters to get to that point. After the machine grades them, the staff checks the oysters by hand and then loads them into these boxes, which also run the company - A box like this is and we might send out over 1000 a week. (wrapping film squeaking) This particular box had a required minimum that costs like $17,000. It's a fairly significant expense, but once you spend the 17,000, - [Narrator] Once they're boxed, the oysters go into the cooler where they're sent to buyers. These trucks cost about $100,000. Other large equipment can also add up. A skid-steer costs about $50,000, but they aren't part of - We do not set aside a certain If the year is going along poorly, we might do more repairs than replace. - [Narrator] It all adds up to about $1.9 million in expenses, and the company has to recoup those costs by selling market oysters and also selling eye larvae and other seed to other aquaculture companies. - Our farm is one of on the East Coast. There are a lot of people that but they don't sell seed to other farmers. We sell seed all up from Florida to Rhode Island. We're helping a lot of other farms actually grow and compete (bright upbeat music)