- Remember that old PC Yeah, that one. Today, it's been given a second chance. This old machine isn't worthless, even with it's nine year old CPU and complete lack of a Graphics Card. Why? I like, you know a little secret. Not all PCs need to be for gaming. Tired of paying for Google Drive, host your own Cloud storage. Hate running USB drives through your TV, host your own media server. The possibilities are endless. With the help of Pulseway, we're going to show you how into your own personal server (techno music) The first thing to learn is The word describes a role not Sure, the servers in big data centers do look different than your home PC. They're built for reliability with redundant power They prefer many slower cores and they lack consumer or display outputs. But that's because if not thousands of clients. We are not. Which is why even our aging closet PC, an old laptop or even a $30 Raspberry Pi can all act as our first home server. This OptiPlex 7010 we picked up from our local recycler, Free Geek is the perfect candidate, not just because it's but because the bones are solid. It's got a hyper-threading a 128 Gig SATA SSD for a boot drive and a reasonable 1 At this price point though, there are some compromises It's 12 Gigs of RAM are mismatched and predictably it doesn't have a GPU. And even if we did add one, we would likely run into because value engineered power supplies like this 250 watt one, while they're generally pretty solid, they don't leave a whole lot nor does it offer additional But, don't fret. What really matters here is that we have a blank canvas to work from. And by the way, now's a great Give it a good dusting and maybe refresh your thermal It needs some love. Now, let's set up our OS. Now before you say it, we're not gonna install Linux today. We know that moving to a does have both performance and feature benefits over Windows. However, if you're just starting out and you've got an old Windows this is the easiest way to And that's what we want this video to be. A start, not the end. If you guys wanna see a follow-up where we use TrueNAS or similar, rattle your sabers in the The first thing you're going to want to do is factory reset the PC. Now, if you're running Windows 7 or 8, now is a good time to Keep in mind that a lot will still work to activate If you're already there, hit the Windows key and type, Reset. Hah, it's slow. Then click on, Get Started. All you need to do from here until you have a fresh Windows install. We ran WinAero Tweaker to and kill Cortana and also like Telemetry that can from an older system like this. Now we're ready to set up our For starters, we're going to for our media and Pulseway to If you're thinking, why would I need remote Well, it's not because from across the world but a spare monitor keyboard and let alone the space. Instead, we can operate it headlessly, that is completely controlled or the Pulseway app. Neat. Setting up Plex is simple. Install the application, run through the prompts and Am I right? They are very legally binding. The beauty of using a Windows PC to start your server hosting journey is that the user experience isn't, and I mean this with the utmost respect to all command line warriors, You just download what you need. The links are in the description and install and configure it with a gooey and then you're done. It really is that easy. We can't cover all the You could run a remote torrenting box or an Ad blocking server, for instance. But if you're following along and you do hit some roadblocks, hop on over to our forum, where there are tons of willing to help you out. Love you guys. Pulseway set up is similarly easy. Just click through the wizard and sign in. At this point, you'll have and settings from whatever to access Pulseway. And we're done. Service is running, Pulseway is up. You can actually get away with not even setting up a and just using Pulseway to But having a direct folder share on your local network is pretty nice. So, we're gonna do that too. It just takes a few more to access 'em from Starbucks, We've got a drive set up that we'll go into and we have What we'll do is we'll Give access to, and then From here, either you to access the file like it is normally or in our case, we're in our local network access. Be sure to change the to Read and Write, creating a melting pot. And boom, the folder as a Network Share by copying the link into the Add a Network folder prompt in any network machine Don't forget to go to the to ensure both Network Discovery and File and Printer Sharing are turned on under the private settings. Or if your network is set as public, you should set that as on public networks, not by default. Double check that. Really, that's it for And with it, we can do We can point our Plex server and access the entire We can set up a Windows or go easy mode and Remote Desktop Tool to control our server from anywhere in the world without exposing our IP to the net. We can also update Windows to the system itself, And the best part is that We're not running Linux. You don't have to learn anything new. If your main rig works itself, you have an easy to configure backup PC, just waiting in the wings. But what if you want more control or what if you don't to throw at your pile of spare parts. You could run a standalone but as we've seen in the Linux challenge, that's not always for the faint of heart. Unraid and Proxmox are but they're not super easy to use either. For an intermediate user, we previously known as FreeNAS. It's free, easy to install That's it, video over. Nah, just kidding. Let's kick it up by adding more These two 12 terabyte IronWolf Pro drives can handle that beautifully. At $400 a pop, they aren't cheap, but considering that 10 costs 70 bucks a month. If we did the math, this in under a year including the PC, not to mention you will own All right, we've got and the first 12 terabyte IronWolf in, but now we have a problem. Where does this go? We can't exactly like, just throw it here and be done with it. We can't put it here, there's Like there's no provisions. There's not even another (Anthony laughs) This optical drive now serves no purpose. Oh, there are some screws in there that I need to get rid of. Ah, okay, cool. But there's another problem. Yes, this freed up some room and yes, this is SATA. Um, they're not the same size. So, that's where this comes in. This will accept a three and and slot in, something like so. Oh, yep, okay. Obviously I need to but that's the plan. Let's get to it. Let's see if it still works. Now with the DVD drive out, because who needs one of these these days, we have a freed up SATA right where we need it. So, our second drive, is absolutely plugged into the system and I'm not getting a display. This is very troubling. One moment, please. Two things that we learned just now. First, always check your cables. Second, a lot of these old machines sometimes have issues via display port. Yeah, these are the kinds of things that these old systems will But, once you have it here we go, we've got 12 Did I say 12? I meant to say 12 terabytes Yes. Now it's time to RAID these things. We're gonna be setting up RAID 1, which means the drives will be mirrored. There's no performance for Reads, there is. But if one dies, you get Hit the Windows key and Then create a new pool using the steps we've linked down below. (keys clicking) You will need to format your drives first. Make sure you do that. There we go. On format drives. (Anthony sneezes) Ooh, ah, I'm allergic to Dell (beep). Storage space, Resiliency, File system, NTFS. Size, so 10.9 terabytes, And create Storage Space. Formatting the storage space. We are good to go. And there we have it, a 12 for under a thousand dollars. And each of these hard So that's telling you something. This particular form factor to hide somewhere in conspicuous, especially if you use Pulseway to do all of your remote So, huge thanks to Pulseway We hope you enjoyed it. And if you wanna see more of this, sort of DIY server content, don't forget to get subscribed and check out all of We'll have those linked For now, see you later.