I'm losing my mind over this. Here's My partner and I got a new printer. It seemed fine. And I went to print, and it just wouldn't print at all, There's no message on my computer And the ink is completely full. And the reason it's not printing Cannot print with the installed cartridge. As you can see, this page has printed fine. That's infuriating. I would be so mad if I'm trying to print like, keeps printing out a page I won't print. Exactly. Maggie's brand new printer for six months She did some digging and realized in their ink subscription Get ready to ink differently Your printer anticipates when you're low and sends But Maggie's printer still had ink in it It turns out that when your Instant or if you cancel it, That's when I started googling it that's a problem The ink that you paid 122 that's in your printer right now, you- I have two full cartridges Because I canceled HP's Instant Ink monthly service Subscriptions are so annoying, There are monthly fees to watch movies, water your plants, use your sewing machine, brush your teeth, turn on your lights, use your fridge, There's so many subscriptions three of these. And I bet you can't guess which ones. It's these three. Buying an expensive physical thing for something every month. It's kind of frustrating. After talking to Maggie, that companies make us pay endlessly Over the past ten years, businesses have been growing almost four times faster Like most people, I thought subscriptions and frustrating cash And they are. But we're losing more than money. Subscriptions are actually changing and rely on every day, Do you know how much you spend For the average American, it's nearly $300 Let me guess. You're thinking Well, the average American subscription bill by at least $100, Point is, people are sick I'm assuming, I couldn't actually read the article. It's been around since at least the 15th century Newspaper readers subscribed by writing Sub, under. Scribe, write. The publisher earned customer loyalty steady revenue, by offering customers In this case, the latest issue It was a win-win. Media subscriptions were born in 1948. Cable TV brought higher quality signals In 1997, Netflix extended that concept to DVDs - free delivery and no late fees. And when they launched eventually leading to, well, all this, that provided an even bigger value. Unlimited music, movies and TV on demand when you move. Nope. This balance held through the 2000s Subscriptions brought us free and fast way to wear designer clothing, and cheap But today, where we're paying to keep using something How did we get here? Well, it all started with Salesforce. Each one of our pods This is really increasing our ability a very high, reliable solution Don't worry, I'm not going to explain even though I totally could All you need to know The important thing isn't what See, through the 90s if you wanted to buy software you'd buy a physical CD-Rom, and use that as long as you liked. But the problem for companies was Software engineers are constantly Those days, tech was advancing they would also release new versions Salesforce positioned themselves No big upfront costs for software just a small monthly fee, Software was no longer It was a service that you paid It was a huge success. Salesforce went public in 2004 and Microsoft launched Office 365 in 2010 and saw revenue grow by nearly 70%. Adobe went subscription- Subscriptions have grown 16 times driving Most people still consider but lately their fastest billion subscriptions unit, Investors love software-as-a-service, Today, Photoshop costs $263 a year, which is a cheaper upfront But in about two and a half years, So what additional value Not much. The software isn't really improving Maybe a new feature or two. that much since 2006, Over time, companies have seen this to squeeze a little bit of extra money Then, subscriptions into our physical stuff It became really cheap to introduce network connectivity So we see all sorts of things that don't really need a WiFi connection, When manufacturers advertise smart They promise all sorts of flashy features. But smart appliances have shorter and it turns out people don't Plus, software gets buggy My car would not let me inside. There is a software bug, I can't even get out the vehicle. Y'all can have this motherfucking car. A lot of times safe, less durable, and weirdly hostile. I'm in fine exactly what they need! Software is really the key tool like, the functional ability These cartridges have a specific chip So if at any point it loses network Or if it recognizes that your payment HP account has lapsed, This tactic is called software tethering Car manufacturers have started trying BMW will let you freeze your butt off subscription. $18 a month for heated seats. That's actually one of the craziest things Tesla owners have to pay $10 a month to all of their cars' navigation To have to pay extra the car, is ridiculous. And Mercedes locked faster acceleration along with a bunch of other stuff. Unlocking the dash cam will cost you Remote starting, If your Mercedes gets stolen, but for $2 a month. You bought that heated seat, you they put that and now they're charging you for the right A brand new electric vehicle, This is 2022, people. Imagine if we charge you for gasoline then charge you This is greed. I don't care. It's the kind of stuff that just makes a giant dump on someone's head. It's not just cars. The SNOO Smart Bassinet, the Oura Ring, These are all expensive products without a subscription. Those kinds of subscription They're just imposing a tax we've already paid for. This clear lack of customer value is also and subscription services to trick us into subscribing. become paid memberships and dark patterns Software tethering also allows companies to force us GE put digital locks so you can only use their name Companies will encrypt anything: coffee bulbs, cat litter Also that were forced HP Instant They charge you based on how many pages you want to print, Maggie thought an ink subscription like Dollar Shave Club. But Instant Maggie doesn't own her cartridges any more Your access to them In other words, HP isn't selling you It's renting them to you you use them, It's not even like you're getting, that you have in your home. You're having to only use it You're having to only use it You're having to only use it Like, I could just go down the street or at the library instead of having one in my house Maggie was kind of like, with so many rules and restrictions, That's a tricky question. We're going to come back to that. Subscription companies as long as they make a profit. They'll even kill their own products A few years ago, Nest was making a home A few years ago, Nest was making a home one day they decided that they just didn't And so they sent out an email to everybody for 300 bucks, whatever it was, and said, this thing just doesn't work Spotify did the same thing Thing, less than two years Juicero with its $400 juicer. And earlier this year, the electric car which has left thousands of people wondering when the servers go down, or if they now own the world's In a world where your device isn't that the manufacture is maintaining, If my toaster that I bought in 1995, the toaster still works. Today that is just not true anymore. If you're a good coder, how to keep your bricked Juicero or Fisker the company's software restrictions, 1201 of the Digital Millennium The DMCA was passed No, the other piracy. And applies to anything In 1998 that meant, like, a DVD. But in 2024, And companies use copyright as the legal There are exceptions for law enforcement someone who bought a $60,000 car. Or for Maggie. If I don't want to continue the ink cartridges are pretty much wasted. It's not like you can unsubscribe Maggie's Official HP ones, of course. I think the printer cost like $85. And then the new ink from So it's about half the price of a printer And that's exactly what HP intended. The CEO freely admits this. Exactly. So to recap, Salesforce and then everything became software. and then everything became software. Now, companies don't have to earn our loyalty They can just force it and they're legally protected That, I think, has led to a really not just in our economy, It's really crucial over the devices Their phones, their cars. Today, that consumers and lawmakers Now to a consumer alert Today, the Federal Trade Commission issued Click-to-Cancel basically means that if you click to subscribe, And if companies don't comply with it, then we can go forward which means that they'll be liable The law cracks down on free trials on time, and subscriptions We're really trying to address upfront the full set of requirements once you do sign up. And also make sure that users are not spending these archaic bureaucracies just to be able The FTC is also going after Adobe practices. And consumer protection groups No more locking all the best features behind paywalls, This consumer advocacy is working. HP is phasing out Instant Ink, citing also killed BMW heated seats and Keurig's coffee pods. But there's a more fundamental change When you pay money for a product, It's not a lease it's I pay you one time. I own that thing, right? And I get to behave There's that we're actually going to put it We're going to look at why our stuff breaks more often, to fix your iPhone, And we're going to dig into the bigger Maggie raised with her printer. Do we even own the things we buy? Stay tuned for the answer